{"id": "32158634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32158634", "title": "Afghana", "text": "Afghana\n\nAfghana or Avagana is a tribal chief or prince in Pashtun folklore, said to be of Bani Israel (Israelite) origin, who is traditionally considered the progenitor of modern-day Pashtuns, the largest ethnic group in Afghanistan and second largest in Pakistan. The ethnonym \"Afghan\" is believed to derive from his name.\n\nAccording to the Tanakh, King Saul (Talut) was the son of Kish, a member of the tribe of Benjamin, one of the twelve Tribes of Israel (). Saul married Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz and had four sons and two daughters. The sons were Jonathan, Abinadab, Malchishua and Ish-bosheth. Saul's daughters were named Merab and Michal.\n\nPashtun folklore and some historians suggest that King Saul had five sons instead of four, the fifth was named Irmia (Jeremiah).\n\nThe legend describes Malak Afghana as the son of Irmia (Jeremiah) and grandson of King Saul (Talut). This name is mentioned in the form of \"Abgan\" in the 3rd century CE by the Sassanians and as \"Avagana\" in the 6th century CE by Indian astronomer Varahamihira.\n\nIt is mentioned that Afghana was orphaned at a young age, and brought up by King David. When Solomon became the king, Afghana was made commander-in-chief of the army. Malak Afghana is also credited with the building of the first temple in Jerusalem, the Temple Mount, known later in Arabic as the Haram al-Sharif (, \"al-haram al-qudsī ash-sharīf\"):\n\nAccording to Tadhkirat al-Muluk, Malak Afghana migrated to the place known as Takht-i-Sulaiman and generations later Qais Abdur Rashid, a descendant of Malak Afghana, embraced Islam.\n\nAccording to legend, after his death he was buried in what is now Zhob Sulaiman Mountains in Pakistan. In other folklore however, Qais Abdur Rashid in his old age, when he felt his time was near, asked his sons to bury him in the vicinity of Zhob (Sulaiman Mountains) at the location where his ancestor Afghana was buried. The Sulaiman range runs north in Loya Paktia and meets the Spin Ghar range northeast of Gardez in Paktia province. To the east, the mountain range enters the districts of Dera Ghazi Khan (in Punjab) and Dera Ismail Khan (in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa), and approaches the Indus River near Mithankot in the Rajanpur District of Punjab. The eastern slopes drop very quickly to the Indus River, but towards west, the mountain range drops gradually to the Sistan Basin. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26992465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26992465", "title": "Ahafo", "text": "Ahafo\n\nThe Ahafo are an Akan people who live in Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "25529586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25529586", "title": "Armenians in the Republic of Macedonia", "text": "Armenians in the Republic of Macedonia\n\nArmenians in the Republic of Macedonia are the ethnic Armenians in the Republic of Macedonia. The number of Armenians is about 300 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25548228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25548228", "title": "Asian of the Century", "text": "Asian of the Century\n\nAsian of the Century is a centurial issue of the 20th century held by American AsianWeek magazine and CNN in 1999 that features and profiles Asian persons who have topped their respective fields. Mahatma Gandhi was declared as the \"Asian of the Century\".\n\nThose people featured are considered as \"The person who contributed most to the betterment of Asia in the past 100 years'\".\n\nThe Big Five are:\n\nThere was a long list of runners-up, such as Rabindranath Tagore (1861–1941), Amartya Sen, Bruce Lee (1940–1973), Chang Min Chueh (1919–1991), Gregory Pincus, M.S. Swaminathan, Rodolfo Aquino, Goh Keng Swee, Li Kuo-ting, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Muhammad Yunus, Mother Teresa (1910–1997), the 14th Dalai Lama, Mohammad Ali Jinnah (1876–1948), Mahathir Mohamad, Mao Zedong (1893–1976), Corazon Aquino, and Lee Kuan Yew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4027752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4027752", "title": "Bahrani people", "text": "Bahrani people\n\nThe Baharna () are a Shia Muslim ethnoreligious group who mainly inhabit the historical region of Eastern Arabia. They are generally regarded by scholars to be the original inhabitants of the Bahrain archipelago. Most Shi'i Bahraini citizens are ethnic Baharna. Regions with most of the population are in Eastern Arabia (Bahrain, Qatif, al-Hasa), with historical diaspora populations in Kuwait, (see Baharna in Kuwait), Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Iran, and Iraq. Some Bahrainis are from other parts of the world too. \n\nThe origin of Baharna is uncertain; there are different theories regarding their origins. Several Western scholars believe the Baharna originate from Bahrain's pre-Islamic population which consisted of partially-Christianized Arabs, Persian Zoroastrians, Jews (in Bahrain) and Aramaic-speaking agriculturalists. According to one historian, Arab settlements in Bahrain may have begun around 300 B.C. and control of the island was maintained by the Rabyah tribe, who converted to Islam in 630 A.D. \n\nThere are many gaps and inconsistencies in the genealogies of those claiming descent from the Banu Abdul Qays in Bahrain, therefore Baharna are probably descendants of an ethnically-mixed population. Bahraini society has traditionally divided itself into three genealogical categories in order: \"ansab\" (clear genealogies), \"la ansab\" (unclear genealogies) and \"bani khudair\" (foreigner). Baharna were \"la ansab\" because they have uncertain ancestry.\n\nThe Bahrani Arabic dialect exhibits Akkadian, Aramaic and Syriac features. The sedentary people of pre-Islamic Bahrain were Aramaic speakers and to some degree Persian speakers, while Syriac functioned as a liturgical language. The Bahrani dialect might have borrowed the Akkadian, Aramaic and Syriac features from Mesopotamian Arabic.\n\nSince only little is known about their ancestry, Robert Hay referred to the Baharna as \"Arabs without a pedigree\". According to Robert Bertram Serjeant, the Baharna may be the Arabized \"descendants of converts from the original population of Christians (Aramaeans), Jews and ancient Persians (Majus) inhabiting the island and cultivated coastal provinces of Eastern Arabia at the time of the Arab conquest\".\n\nThe term \"Bahrani\" serves to distinguish the Bahrani people from other Shia in Bahrain, such as the ethnic Persian Bahrainis who fall under the term \"Ajam\", as well as from the Sunni Najdi immigrants in Bahrain who are known as \"Al Arab\" (\"Arabs\").\n\nThe \"Hasawis\" of al-Hasa are ethnically distant from Bahranis.\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, the term \"Baharna\" refers to Arabic-speaking Shia regardless of their origins.\n\nIn Arabic, \"bahrayn\" is the dual form of \"bahr\" (\"sea\"), so \"al-Bahrayn\" means \"the Two Seas\". However, which two seas were originally intended remains in dispute. The term appears five times in the Qur'an, but does not refer to the modern islandoriginally known to the Arabs as \"Awal\"but rather to the oasis of Qatif and Hajar (modern al-Hasa). It is unclear when the term began to refer exclusively to Awal, but it was probably after the 15th century.\n\nToday, Bahrain's \"two seas\" are instead generally taken to be the bay east and west of the island, the seas north and south of the island, or the salt and fresh water present above and below the ground. In addition to wells, there are places in the sea north of Bahrain where fresh water bubbles up in the middle of the salt water, noted by visitors since antiquity.\n\nAn alternate theory offered by al-Ahsa was that the two seas were the Persian Gulf and a peaceful lake on the mainland; still another provided by Ismail ibn Hammad al-Jawhari is that the more formal name \"Bahri\" (lit. \"belonging to the sea\") would have been misunderstood and so was opted against.\n\nLocal anecdotal evidence suggests that the Baharna's Arab ancestry is diverse as some word variants spoken in the dialects of the native people of the villages of Bani Jamra and A'ali are only used in places as far as Yemen and Oman.\n\nMembers of the Banu Abdul Qays in Eastern Arabia were mostly Nestorian Christians before the seventh century.\n\nLanguage and culture\nGeography\nBahrani People\n\n"}
{"id": "4282009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4282009", "title": "Bharatha people", "text": "Bharatha people\n\nBharatha People (, ) also known as Bharatakula and Paravar, is an ethnicity in the island of Sri Lanka. Earlier considered a caste of the Sri Lankan Tamils, they got classified as separate ethnic group in the 2001 census. They are descendant of Tamil speaking Paravar of Southern India who migrated to Sri Lanka under Portuguese rule. They live mainly on the western coast of Sri Lanka and mainly found in the cities of Mannar, Negombo and Colombo.\n\nScholars derive \"Bharatha\", also pronounced as \"Parathar\", from the Tamil root word \"para\" meaning \"expanse\" or \"sea\". The word has been documented in ancient Sangam literature, describing them as maritime people of the \"Neithal\" Sangam landscape\".\" Colonial archives refer them as \"Paruwa\", a corrupted form of \"Paravar\".\n\nAccording to other scholars is \"Bharatha\" a name the community took from the Hindu epic Mahabharata, the clan of Bhāratas, who were the ancestor of the heroes in the epic, following their origin myth from Ayodhya. \n\nThey were traditionally occupied in seatrade, pearl diving and fishing. They included the chiefs of the coastal regions, who ruled there as subordinates of the Pandyan kings. The Muslims of Kayalpatnam obtained a lease on pearl fishery by Marthanda Varma. The Bharatas aligned with the Portuguese and overthrew the overlordship by the Muslims and for return were over 20,000 Bharathas converted to Roman Catholicism by the saint Francis Xavier. \n\nSeveral hundreds of Christian converted Bharathas were brought from Indian mainland to the western shores of Sri Lanka by the Portuguese to wrest control on the pearl trade. Cankili I, king of Jaffna Kingdom, ordered the death of 600 Christian Bharathas who were settled in the Mannar District. \n\nParavar are to be found all over Sri Lanka. Amongst Sri Lankan Tamils Paravar are still a fishing and trading caste although commonly confused with the Karaiyar. The Bharatas or Bharatakula identity is maintained by a relatively prosperous merchant group from India that settled amongst the Sinhalese in the Negombo area.\n\nAlong with Colombo Chetty and other relatively recent merchant groups from South India, there is rapid Sinhalisation or assimilation with the Sinhalese majority. But unlike the Colombo Chettys many still speak Tamil at home and even have marital relationships in India.\n\nAccording to recent Sri Lankan census categories in July 2001, Bharatakula has been moved out of Sri Lankan Tamil category to simply as a separate ethnic group \"Bharatha.\" \n\nThey are primarily found in capital Colombo and in towns north of it, namely Negombo in the Western Province.\n\nCommon last names adopted by Bharatkulas include Corera's, Croos, de Croos, Fernando, Ferdinandes, Paiva, Peeris, Miranda, Motha, Corera, Costa, Rayan, Rayen, Rodrigo, Leon, Vaz, and Rubeiro. Fernando is the commonest last name. The related Paldanos are descended from the Portuguese military officers (\"Paladinos\") who married into the community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "607056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607056", "title": "Boungome people", "text": "Boungome people\n\nThe Boungome are an ethnic group from the northeastern region of Gabon.\n"}
{"id": "1472509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1472509", "title": "British diaspora in Africa", "text": "British diaspora in Africa\n\nThe British diaspora in Africa is a population group broadly defined as English-speaking white Africans of mainly (but not only) British descent who live in or come from Sub-Saharan Africa. The majority live in South Africa and other Southern African countries including Zimbabwe (Southern Rhodesia), Namibia (South West Africa), Botswana (Bechuanaland Protectorate), Zambia (Northern Rhodesia), Lesotho (Basutoland) and Swaziland (Formerly under British rule). There are also sizable numbers in Kenya (Kenya Colony), Nigeria (British Nigeria) and Ghana (Gold Coast Colony). Their first language is usually English. The majority of white Africans who speak English as a first language are of British and Irish descent.\n\nAlthough there were earlier British settlements along the West African coast to facilitate the British Atlantic slave trade, British settlement in Africa only began in earnest at the end of the eighteenth century, at the Cape of Good Hope. British settlement in the Cape gained momentum following the second British occupation of the Dutch Cape Colony in 1806, and the subsequent encouragement of British settlers in Albany (\"Settler Country\") in order to consolidate the British Cape Colony's eastern frontier during the Cape Frontier Wars against the Xhosa. Natal in southeastern Africa was proclaimed a British colony in 1843. Following the defeat of the Boers in the Second Boer War in 1902, Britain annexed the Boer Republics of the Transvaal Republic and the Orange Free State.\nScottish medical missionary David Livingstone famously explored Africa, and it is believed he was the first European to set eyes on Victoria Falls in 1855. He is a key character in African history, being one of the first well-known Britons to believe his heart was in Africa.\nIn the late nineteenth century, the discovery of gold in the Witwatersrand and diamonds in Kimberley encouraged further settlement by the British, Australians, Americans and Canadians. The search for mineral resources also drove expansion north. Mining magnate Cecil Rhodes dreamed of a British Africa linked from Cape Town to Cairo, and the British South Africa Company he founded in 1889 controlled the territory named Rhodesia after him, which later became known as (Southern) Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) and Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia). Simultaneously, British settlers began expansion into the fertile uplands (the \"White Highlands\") of British East Africa (now Kenya).\nAs a result of the ideological rise of anti-colonialism throughout the British Empire and the post-World War II decolonisation of Africa, British colonies and protectorates in Africa eventually became self-governing, but not necessarily with majority rule. Often aided by Soviet expertise and weapons, black nationalist guerrilla forces such as the Mau Mau in Kenya, ZANU in Rhodesia and MK in South Africa fought for majority rule, which normally meant \"one man, one vote\".\n\nA unilateral declaration of independence (UDI) occurred in 1965. Civil war lasted until 1979.\n\nIn 1980, the first democratic general election was held in independent Zimbabwe and the country joined the Commonwealth. Subsequently, the country's white population declined sharply – thousands were intimidated, attacked and driven off their property. Charged with abusing human rights and undermining democracy, President Robert Mugabe and other Zimbabwean individuals and entities were subjected to a wide range of sanctions. In 2002 Zimbabwe was suspended from the Commonwealth due to human rights abuses and electoral fraud. In 2003, Zimbabwe voluntarily terminated its Commonwealth membership.\n\nIn 1910 four separate British colonies in Southern Africa united to form the Union of South Africa, which was governed as a constitutional monarchy within the British Empire under white minority rule. In 1931 the Statute of Westminster granted the Union full legislative independence from Britain, leading it to become an independent realm within what would come to be known as the Commonwealth. The majority of the British diaspora supported the United Party, led by J. B. M. Hertzog and Jan Smuts while it was the ruling party between 1934 and 1948, and its various successors up to the Democratic Party, the predecessor of the Democratic Alliance. The United Party favoured close relations with the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth, unlike the Nationalists, many of whom, such as John Vorster, supported Nazi Germany during the Second World War.\n\nThe Afrikaners, who ruled the country from 1948 until 1994, entrenched apartheid, established a republic and withdrew from the Commonwealth. In 1955, 33,000 Dutch (34, 8%)\nGermans (33, 7%)\nFrench (13, 2%)\nPeople of colour (7%)\nBritish (5, 2%)\nUnknown origin (3, 5%)\nOther Europeans (2, 6%)\nin Natal, which had an English-speaking majority of white voters, signed the Natal Covenant against the establishment of a republic. Many of the British diaspora voted \"No\" in the 1960 referendum of white voters, which was approved by a narrow margin and led to the establishment of a republic. The Natal majority voted against the republic and some Natalians even called for secession from the Union after the referendum.\n\nIn 1994 South Africa held its first universal democratic general election, marking the end of apartheid and white minority rule, and rejoined the Commonwealth. The majority of the British diaspora support the Democratic Alliance, which is the official opposition to the ruling African National Congress and an increasingly multiracial party.\n\nThe British diaspora population has declined since the early 1990s as a result of a low birth rate relative to that of other population groups and emigration. Reasons for emigration include crime, corruption, poor service delivery and affirmative action. A crude estimate of the British diaspora population is the number of white South Africans who speak English as a first language, representing 1.6 million people, 36% of the white population group and 3% of the total population in the South African National Census of 2011. This number is an overstatement as it includes people of other ancestral origins who have assimilated into the white English-speaking population. The English-speaking population is largest in the KwaZulu-Natal province and in cities such as Johannesburg and Cape Town.\n\nDespite the high emigration rate, many people of British descent continue to settle in South Africa, including many South African-born people who have returned home since the late 1990s, especially after the 2008 global economic crisis. South Africa has been a top destination for British retirees, and many white Zimbabweans of British descent have settled in South Africa since Zimbabwe's independence, some as a result of forced removal from their property. Over 200,000 British citizens live in South Africa, including more than 38,000 who are being paid a state pension.\n\nA significant number of the British diaspora in Africa have emigrated to other Commonwealth states such as the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Others have settled in countries such as the United States, the Republic of Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain, Argentina, Mexico and Brazil. A large number of young people are also taking advantage of working holiday visas made available by the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth states.\n\nWhite Africans, including the British diaspora, generally enjoy an outdoor lifestyle and sports. The \"braai\" is a popular way to gather with friends and family. Other popular pastimes include visiting game reserves, hiking, camping and recreational angling. There is a particular appreciation of country life and farming. Farmers themselves generally prefer holiday houses at the coast. In other ways, the culture of the British diaspora derives from their British ancestry. Afternoon tea – in fact, tea at any time of day – is still widespread as are pastimes such as gardening and reading. Families who live in the country are usually familiar with pastimes such as horseriding and shooting. White South African culture was encapsulated in the 1970s Chevrolet radio jingle \"Braaivleis, rugby, sunny skies and Chevrolet\" based on the United States version \"Baseball, hot dogs, apple pie and Chevrolet\". Although nationwide television in South Africa was introduced in 1976, many older South Africans of British descent had little exposure to British television and humour as a result of an Equity union ban on British television programme sales to South Africa during apartheid.\n\nMany white Africans speak a unique dialect of English. South African English is influenced by Afrikaans and the Bantu languages. The considerable Afrikaans influence can be seen from words such as \"braai\", \"trek\", \"lekker\" and \"ja\" in common usage. Some Zulu and Xhosa words such as \"shongololo\", \"muti\", \"ubuntu\" and \"fundi\" (meaning an \"expert\") are also commonly used. Although South African slang is used by many younger South Africans, it would be unusual to hear it used among older people. The common greeting \"howzit!\" comes from the Afrikaans \"hoezit!\" (or \"how is it?\") and can be likened to the US \"howdy\", the Australian \"g'day\", the Irish \"howya?\" or the recent British \"all right?\".\n\nRhodes University in Grahamstown houses the Dictionary Unit for South African English. The fourth edition of \"A Dictionary of South African English\" was published in 1991, and the second edition of the \"Oxford South African Concise Dictionary\" was published in 2010. The English Academy of Southern Africa founded in 1961 is dedicated to promoting the effective use of English as a dynamic language in Southern Africa.\n\nA few South African English coinages are listed below:\n\nThe British diaspora in Africa has a long literary tradition, and has produced a number of notable novelists and poets, including Doris Lessing, Olive Schreiner, Guy Butler and Roy Campbell. A traditional South African storybook is Percy FitzPatrick's \"Jock of the Bushveld\", which describes his journey as a wagon driver with his dog Jock. Other significant African writers of British descent are Nadine Gordimer, Alan Paton, Peter Godwin, Alexandra Fuller and Bryce Courtenay.\n\nThe British diaspora has influenced modern African arts, and has often incorporated other African cultures. Athol Fugard is a significant playwright. Born of an Irish Catholic father and an Afrikaner mother, he has always described himself as an Afrikaner but he wrote in English to reach a larger audience. Sharlto Copley is a significant film actor, producer and director. He starred in the Oscar-nominated science fiction film \"District 9\", which was an international box office hit and received widespread critical acclaim. \"District 9\" drew heavily on metaphoric references to South Africa's apartheid history as well as including many other more direct references to South African and African culture. Although English-speaking, Copley plays an Afrikaner bureaucrat who experiences a similar oppression to that he once imposed on alien refugees. He also starred in the film remake of the 1980s television show \"The A-Team\".\n\nNotable African musicians of British descent include Dave Matthews, who emigrated to the United States, and Johnny Clegg. Wrex Tarr performed the distinctly Rhodesian comedy song \"Cocky Robin\" based on Chilapalapa. John Edmond was a popular singer, songwriter, entertainer and storyteller during the Rhodesian Bush War. Seether is a post-grunge band founded by South Africans, which now includes Americans.\n\nThe British diaspora and their forebears have been extensively involved in the founding and development of numerous educational institutions across Africa.\n\nThere are four universities in South Africa that were established by the British diaspora, which admitted limited numbers of black students during apartheid. The South African College was founded in 1829 and later split into the University of Cape Town and the South African College Schools. The University of Natal merged with the University of Durban-Westville to form the University of KwaZulu-Natal. The University of the Witwatersrand was founded in Kimberley in 1896 as the South African School of Mines and is now based in Johannesburg. Finally, Rhodes University was established in 1904 with an initial grant from the Rhodes Trust.\n\nThere are two categories of schools founded by the British diaspora or British missionaries, those originally intended for the education of the children of the British diaspora and those founded for the education of the indigenous population.\n\nThe first category includes both notable private schools such as St. George's College in Harare, Peterhouse Boys' School in Marondera, the Diocesan College in Cape Town, the Wykeham Collegiate in Pietermaritzburg and St John's College in Johannesburg and prestigious government schools such as Maritzburg College in Pietermaritzburg, King Edward VII School in Johannesburg and Prince Edward School in Harare.\n\nThe second category of schools includes South African institutions such as the Lovedale educational institution in the Eastern Cape, which was responsible for the education of many notable Africans including Thabo Mbeki, Chris Hani and Seretse Khama, Tiger Kloof Educational Institute in the North West province, and St Matthew's High School outside Keiskammahoek in the Eastern Cape. Many of these institutions were adversely impacted by the Bantu Education Act of 1953, and the Historic Schools Restoration Project championed by former Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town Njongonkulu Ndungane aims to transform under-resourced historically significant schools into sustainable centres of cultural and educational excellence.\n\nCricket, rugby, tennis, golf, and cycling are generally considered to be the most popular sports among the British diaspora.\n\nCricket in Africa and particularly Zimbabwe has been dominated by the British diaspora. Up until recent times, the majority of Zimbabwean players were from the British diaspora, including Andy Flower, Heath Streak, Brendan Taylor and Ray Price. Cricket in South Africa also traditionally features the British diaspora, including current national Test captain Graeme Smith. The England cricket team has often included members of the British diaspora in their ranks. The England cricket team of 2010 that retained the 2010–11 Ashes series in Australia, for example, received significant contributions from South African captain Andrew Strauss, wicketkeeper Matt Prior, batsman Kevin Pietersen, batsman Jonathan Trott and coach Andy Flower.\n\nA few examples of the notable contributions of the British diaspora to South African rugby are those made by Kitch Christie, the coach who led the Springboks to victory in the 1995 Rugby World Cup, Bobby Skinstad and Percy Montgomery, the Springboks' all-time leader in appearances and points.\n\nMembers of the British diaspora have also had notable success in African rallying, while former Rhodesia in particular produced several world champion motorcycle road racers including Jim Redman and Kork Ballington.\n\nTwo-time Tour de France winner Chris Froome was born in Kenya, and grew up in South Africa.\n\nThe majority of white South Africans identify themselves as primarily \"South African\", regardless of their first language or ancestry.\n\nColloquial terms for the British in Africa which might be considered derogatory include the Afrikaans term \"rooinek\" (literally \"red neck\", probably from the stereotype that they sunburn relatively easily although unrelated to the American term \"redneck\"), the Australian term \"pommy\", and the isiZulu term \"mlungu\" which may also be applied to white Africans in general.\n\nThe term \"Anglo-African\" has been used historically to describe people living in the British Empire in Africa, although it has also been used to self-identify by people of mixed British and indigenous African ancestry. \"The Anglo-African Who's Who and Biographical Sketch-Book\" published in London in 1905 contains details of prominent British and Afrikaner people in Africa at that time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193756", "title": "Carlota of Mexico", "text": "Carlota of Mexico\n\nCarlota of Mexico (7 June 1840 – 19 January 1927) was a Belgian princess who became Empress of Mexico by marriage to Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico.\n\nThe only daughter of Leopold I, King of the Belgians, by his second wife, Louise of Orléans, Charlotte was born at the Royal Castle of Laeken, Belgium. She was named after her father's first wife, Princess Charlotte of Wales, who had died in childbirth in 1817. Charlotte had three brothers: Louis-Philippe, who died in infancy, Leopold, who on the death of their father became Leopold II of Belgium and Philippe, Count of Flanders. She was also a first cousin to both Queen Victoria and her husband, Prince Albert, as well as Ferdinand II of Portugal. She belonged to the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.\n\nHer favorite grandparent Maria Amalia of the Two Sicilies, Queen of France, was the consort of Louis-Philippe of France, and a niece of Marie Antoinette. Maria Amalia was Charlotte's close confidante, and on her wedding day in 1857, she wore a bracelet with a miniature portrait of her. They regularly corresponded, especially later while Charlotte was in Mexico.\n\nWhen Charlotte was ten years old, her mother, Louise-Marie, died of tuberculosis and Charlotte was entrusted to the Countess of Hulste, a close family friend. Although young, the princess had her own household; but for a few weeks out of the year, Charlotte stayed in Claremont with Maria Amalia and the rest of her mother's family in exile.\n\nIn her youth, Charlotte resembled her mother, and was noted to be a beauty, possessing delicate features. Combined with her status as the only daughter of King Leopold, she was a desirable bride. \nOn 27 July 1857 in Brussels, Charlotte married her second cousin Archduke Maximilian of Austria, the idealistic younger brother of Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria. Napoleon III gave Charlotte and her husband Maximilian a beautiful bisque bust of Charlotte as a wedding gift. In the Court of Vienna she was much prized by her mother-in-law, Princess Sophie, who saw in her the perfect example of a wife to an Austrian Archduke. This contributed to the strained relationship between Charlotte and Empress Elisabeth of Austria, wife of Franz Joseph, whom Sophie treated rather cruelly. It is said that the Charlotte disliked the deep connection that existed between Elisabeth and Maximilian, who were confidantes and shared the same tastes for many things, especially because her sister-in-law was universally admired for her beauty and charms.\n\nCharlotte spent several relatively happy years in Italy as Maximilian's wife while the archduke served as the governor of the Austrian provinces of Lombardy and Venetia. The position was purely nominal, as power rested in the hand of the Emperor and his officers.\n\nIn the early 1860s, the ambitious Napoleon III initiated the French intervention in Mexico. France, eager to turn Mexico into a satellite state, searched for a suitable figurehead to serve as the nominal emperor of Mexico. His choice was Maximilian, who held no real power in Italy and was eager for a more challenging role. Against his brother's advice, Maximilian accepted the Mexican crown and the couple sailed for the New World. The imperial couple were crowned at the Catedral Metropolitana in 1864 and chose as their seat Mexico City, making their home in the Neoclassical Chapultepec Castle. As Empress, she took the name of Carlota (Spanish for Charlotte). Carlota tried to take her imperial duties seriously and even undertook a tour of the remote Yucatán frontier, visiting the ruins of Uxmal.\n\nOnly months after the coronation, however, Napoleon III began signaling his abandonment of Maximilian, and the French began to withdraw their troops from Mexico. This strategic pullback was a potentially fatal blow to the infant Mexican monarchy. The situation was exacerbated by a United States blockade that prevented French reinforcements from landing. In a desperate attempt to save her husband's throne, Carlota returned to Europe, seeking assistance for her husband in Paris, Vienna, and finally in Rome from Pope Pius IX. Her efforts failed; she manifested symptoms of paranoia, suffered a profound cognitive and emotional collapse, and never returned to Mexico. Maximilian was captured and executed in 1867.\n\nCarlota and Maximilian had no children, but in 1865 the imperial couple adopted Agustín de Iturbide y Green and Salvador de Iturbide y de Marzán—grandsons of Agustín de Iturbide y Arámburu, an earlier emperor of Mexico (r. 1822–23). They gave two-year-old Agustín the title of \"His Highness, The Prince of Iturbide\"—similar imperial titles were accorded to various members of the child's extended family—but never intended to give him the throne, because he was not of royal blood. Maximilian explained himself that it was all a charade to get his brother Archduke Karl Ludwig of Austria to give him one of his sons as heir. The explosive events of 1867 dashed any hopes of inheritance, and after he grew to adulthood, Agustín renounced all rights to the Mexican throne, served in the Mexican army, and eventually established himself as a professor at Georgetown University.\n\nRumors persist that, in 1866, Carlota was having an affair with Belgian officer Colonel and that she gave birth to a son, Maxime Weygand, in Brussels on 21 January 1867. Weygand refused to confirm or deny the persistent rumor and his parentage remains uncertain. Weygand was a French military commander in both World Wars I and II.\n\nThe empress was sent to Europe in 1866 to find help from family. She was received both by the French Emperor and later by the Pope in audience, without success. She was possessed by the idea that she would be killed by poison and refused to eat normal food. Her secretary Batti was horrified when she drank public water from the fountains in Rome, she even bought a cat to taste her food.\nKing Leopold was shocked and sent the count of Flanders to Italy to visit his sister. The Empress who was very depressed and unstable took her court to Miramare, Maximilian's castle near Trieste, Italy, on advice of her brother the Count of Flanders. Dr. Riedel, Director of the Lunatic Asylum of Vienna visited her, to report the Emperor.\n\nWhile the Empress was resting the Emperor of Austria and the King of Belgium sent delegations to Miramare Castle. The Count of Bombelles, and Dr Von Jilek, a friend of the Emperor of Mexico, were sent to Miramare. The King of Belgium sent baron Auguste Goffinet on mission to get his sister home. Emperor Maximilian was captured by Mexican Republican forces and executed on 19 June 1867. Now archduchess again, she was obedient to the Austrian court, and Count Karl of Bombelles tried to keep her in Miramare. Discussions between the imperial court and Brussels became more important, because of the heritage. The emperor placed Charlotte under custody of his brother Archduke Karl Ludwig of Austria. The king sent his wife to Vienna to visit her cousin Emperor Franz-Josef and take care of Charlotte.\n\nThere she was kept in observance by a team of medical and imperial guards. The king sent Jan Frans Bulckens (1813–1876) psychiatrist of Belgium to his sister. The medical team decided that the empress could not be told of the execution of her husband. With medical approval, Queen Marie Henriette gave her sister-in-law a faked telegram from her husband to come back to Brussels.\n\nThis worked and the empress-dowager left Miramare for the last time. Together with her sister-in law, Queen Marie Henriette and the Belgian delegation they left for Belgium. After she left Miramare was returned to the Imperial Court.\n\nHistorians think that after the death of the Emperor in Mexico, Charlotte only had the status of a rich dowager. For the Viennese court and imperial family it was of financial interest to keep her in Miramare. There her fortune was guarded under care of Eduard von Radonetz, the prefect of . When she was in Belgium the Viennese court would need to pay her dowry to Leopold in Belgium. This theory is confirmed by André Castelot.\n\nAt the end the Austrian delegation allowed the empress and her sister in law leave to Belgium where the king gifted her court at Bouchout Castle in Meise, Belgium. During the final years of his life the king cared for his sister. The dowager wrote notes of profound gratitude of the care she received of her brother and nephews.\n\nDuring World War I, her Belgian estate was surrounded by the occupying German army, but the estate itself was sacrosanct because Austria-Hungary was one of Germany's chief allies and she was the widowed sister-in-law of the Austrian emperor.\n\nAs Carlota's illness progressed, her paranoia faded. She remained deeply in love with her husband. After his death, she cherished all of the surviving possessions they had enjoyed in common. The bias of the historiography of the time makes it difficult to assess to what extent she suffered from alleged mental conditions such as psychosis, paranoia and monomania.\n\nCarlota died of pneumonia brought on by influenza at Bouchout Castle on 19 January 1927, and is buried in the Royal Crypt of the Church of Our Lady of Laeken. She was the last surviving child of Leopold I.\n\n\nCarlota of Mexico received the following honours:\n\n\n\n\n|-\n"}
{"id": "55275930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55275930", "title": "Charity assessment", "text": "Charity assessment\n\nCharity assessment is the process of analysis of the \"goodness\" of a non-profit organization in financial terms. In general terms, the measure answers the question: \"how much of contributed funds are used for the purpose(s) claimed by the charity?\" In the United States, the data for charity assessment comes from Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form 990 that is filled out on an annual basis.\n\nA charity watchdog is a type of nonprofit organization that provides ratings of charitable groups based on how an individual charity's money is spent, how it governs itself, and how the charity protects its donors' privacy, among other criteria. Charity evaluation from these organizations has typically focused on measuring administrative and fundraising costs, salaries, and assessing how large of a proportion of a charity's budget is directly spent on impactful activities.\n\nIn 2000, Ministry Watch, an evangelical Christian organization that reviews Protestant ministries for financial accountability and transparency, was founded. Charity Navigator was launched in 2001 by John P. Dugan, a wealthy pharmaceutical executive and philanthropist. Initially, Charity Navigator provided financial ratings for 1,100 charities, and has data on 8,000 as of mid-2016. \n\nThe \"Toronto Star\" has reported on some of the difficulties and revelations of auditing charities as described by Charity Intelligence Canada (CIC). The authors call it \"concerning\", for example, that one in five of \"Canada's top 100 charities\" refused to release their full audited financial statements to CIC. Moreover, one quarter of the \"top 100 charities\" store at least 3 years worth of funding (that is, they have three times their annual budget in savings) and some store as much as 8 years worth. Of the \"top 100 charities\", 14% exceed the guidelines set by the Canada Revenue Agency by spending more than 35% of donations on fundraising – with some spending as much as 50% of donations on fundraising.\n\nIn 2015 the British government announced the creation of a new government-run watchdog to regulate large charities.\n\nThe United States of America has numerous of charity assessment websites such as GiveWell and the cited Charity Navigator to monitor and update the public on the activities of a local and national nonprofit.\n\nIn 2006, hedge fund employees Holden Karnofsky and Elie Hassenfeld formed an informal group with colleagues to evaluate charities based on data and performance metrics similar to those they used at the fund. The group was surprised to find the data often didn't exist. The next year, Karnofsky and Hassenfeld formed GiveWell as a nonprofit to provide financial analyst services to donors. They eventually decided to rate charities based on the metric of how much money it cost to save a life. \n\nGiveWell has focused primarily on the cost-effectiveness of the organizations that it evaluates, rather than traditional metrics such as the percentage of the organization's budget that is spent on overhead. In the first year, Karnofsky and Hassenfeld advocated that charities should generally spend more money on overhead, so that they could pay for staff and record keeping to track how effective their efforts were. This ran counter to standard ways of evaluating charities based on the ratio of overhead to funds deployed for the charity work itself.\n\nGiving What We Can, founded in 2009 by Toby Ord, also differed from other charity evaluators in terms of the importance given to metrics of charity performance, solely focusing on the cost-effectiveness of the charity's work. It has argued that the variance in cost-effectiveness of charities arises largely due to the variance in the nature of the causes that the charities operate in, and therefore has made evaluations across broad areas of work such as health, education, and emergency aid before comparing specific organizations. In practice, it recommends a selected few charities in the area of global health. Its work is similar to that of GiveWell. \n\nCharity Navigator's CEO Ken Berger and consultant Robert M. Penna harshly criticized the idea of discriminating among cause areas for being moralistic and elitist \"by weighing causes and beneficiaries against one another\". Philosopher and effective altruism advocate William MacAskill defended the concept by comparing the choice to donate to an art gallery with the choice of saving a painting rather than saving people from a burning building.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, GuideStar, BBB Wise Giving Alliance, and Charity Navigator wrote open letters urging nonprofits and donors to end the use of the overhead ratio as the sole or main indicator of a nonprofit's performance. Charity Navigator has also been working to expand its criteria to include results reporting. See Charity Navigator § Evaluation method.\n\n\n\nGuideStar UK, official website\n\n"}
{"id": "7493975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7493975", "title": "Coco Palms Resort", "text": "Coco Palms Resort\n\nCoco Palms Resort was a resort hotel in Wailuā, Kauaʻi, Hawaiʻi that was noted for its Hollywood connections, Hawaiian-themed weddings, torch-lightings, destruction by a hurricane and long-standing land disputes. The land is on or near some of the most important legends, historical events and culturally significant spots to Native Hawaiians. The land, where the Coco Palms Resort sits, is ancient Hawaiian royal property that has been in dispute since 1866, beginning with the petition of Junius Kaae along with Kapiolani, Kalakaua and others. Their petition, attempting to revoke the will of Kealiiahonui, filed in probate by Levi Haʻalelea in 1855 was eventually overturned by Sanford B. Dole almost immediately after the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. Dole was acting as a justice of the supreme court of the provincial government after stepping down from the bench and then being seated as President. Litigants were made to sign an agreement for this adjudication to be allowed by Dole.\n\nThe resort was originally leased by Lyle Guslander from the Territory of Hawaii in 1952, opening in early 1953. The hotel manager Grace Buscher took control of marketing the hotel as a Hawaiian-style get-away for tourists. A number of films have been shot on location at this location, including Elvis Presley's film \"Blue Hawaii\". The hotel made a big business out of Hawaiian-style weddings for decades. Buscher started a tradition, still in use at hotels throughout the islands, known at the hotel as the torch-lighting ceremony. Buscher also initiated a tree-planting ceremony to replenish the old coconut grove and honor individuals of note.\n\nDestroyed by Hurricane Iniki, the derelict hotel is allegedly scheduled to be restored and reopened as a Hyatt resort some time in the future.\n\nAccording to the book \"The Story of the Coco Palms Hotel\" by David P Penhallow, the Coco Palms Resort is on an ancient site of Hawaiian royalty and hospitality situated at the mouth of the Wailua River on the eastern side of Kauai. The area around the mouth of the Wailua River is well known to Hawaiians as a place of many legends and events of historical, cultural and religious significance. This is the landing place of the Kahiki voyagers, who came ashore here at Kauaʻi at about 500 AD, and the location of Hawaiian legends like the prophet Naula-a-Maihea and the origins of the Naha stone. On January 18, 1778, Captain James Cook landed here.\n\nIn 1810 the monarch of Kauaʻi, Kaumualii (c. 1778–May 26, 1824) negotiated a peaceful agreement that allowed the island to become a part of Kamehameha I's new Kingdom of Hawaii, while still allowing Kaumualii to remain the ruler. The agreement established Kamehameha's son Liholiho as supreme monarch. After Kamehameha I's death, a council was held in July 1821 with Kaumualii and Liholiho, now styled as \"Kamehameha II\" along with the top chiefs and advisors. When Kamehameha II agreed to continue his father's agreement, Kaumualii asked the new monarch to take some Kauaʻi lands for his wives, to appease Liholiho's guardians. While Kamehameha II refused to do so, stating that his father had left no instructions about the land, only that he should be the supreme monarch, he did take Kaumualii's wife Kekaihaʻakūlou as one of his own wives and gave his wife Kekāuluohi to his most trusted advisor, Charles Kanaʻina as a way to please the chiefs. It is believed the council decision displeased the new Kuhina Nui, Kaʻahumanu. A year later, she would take Kaumualii and later his son Kealiiahonui as her husbands, using the teachings of the missionaries on marriage, to make herself their heirs.\n\nAfter Kaumualii was kidnapped, Kekaihaʻakūlou (now known as Deborah Kapule), owned a home on the banks of the river were travelers knew they were always welcome, long before any hotel on the island. She had converted to Christianity and remarried Simeon Kaiu, who was to become an instructor for the missionaries. The couple had a son, Josiah Kaumualii and in 1837, in order that they may be closer to their own estates, they moved an entire retinue of people to Wailuā. Shortly after relocating, Kaiu died from a stroke. Historian James Jarvis traveled up the river with Kapule in a double-hulled canoe in 1837, climbing to the top of Wailua Falls. Jarvis wrote: \"She lived in a beautiful spot...that looked more like park scenery than any work of nature.\" It was a large house that became open to visitors in 1823. It would become known as \"Deborah's Inn\" where Kapule would entertain for twenty years. In the 1840s Kapule played host to the Protestant missionaries and the first Catholic priest on the island. By 1853, Deborah Kapule had moved to the other side of Kauaʻi and died, and the property began to rapidly deteriorate. George Washington Bates found the residence in complete disrepair, with the canoes, that had previously transported guests up the river, rotting in a shed. Several dilapidated buildings were left abandoned, including a small church. The villagers around the area continued to grow taro and care for the fishponds.\n\nKealiiahonui was the son of Kaumualii who died on approximately June 23, 1849. On January 25, 1855 Levi Haʻalelea petitioned the Hawaiian Supreme Court as a beneficial representative of the estate of Kekauʻōnohi, for whom he was the sole heir as her widower. Haʻalelea had possession of the will of Kealiiahonui stating that Kekauʻōnohi was the monarch's sole heir but had also died previous to the petition. He filed the will into probate on February 16 of that same year. On July 2, 1866, a petition was filed on behalf of Kapiolani, her husband David Kalakaua, Poomaikelani and her husband Hiram Kahanawai, Victoria Kinoiki Kekaulike and her husband David Kahalepouli Piikoi, Kaluaipihana and her husband F.W. Malaihi, as well as a minor named Kamehaokalani through F.W. Malaihi. That case, involving the future king and queen and associates, was dismissed on November 30, 1866.\n\nIn the case of the \"ESTATE OF KEALIIAHONUI, Deceased. Appeal From Bickerton, J.\" of June 17, 1890, involving the amended petition of Junius Kaae, Haʻalelea's widow Amoe Ululani Kapukalakala Ena (1842–1904), represented by F. M. Hatch made a Plea in Bar: stating that the court had already delivered a judgement dismissing the case in 1866. The decision of Bickerton, J. was ; \"After careful examination of this case, and of the authorities, I consider that the petitioner is estopped from what would amount to a re-hearing of the original petition...\" \"The plea in bar is sustained.\". The full decision of the court was; \"We support the decision appealed from\". \"\"[T]he application of one desirous of suing as a next friend of a minor, was substantially complied with. The Judge's order for the issue of process, endorsed upon the petition, was a sufficient \"sanction\" or authority for the person desirous of acting as the next friend of the minor to act throughout the proceedings in such capacity. Moreover, the minor in question was joined with several adult plaintiffs, and all were represented by counsel, and the case heard upon its merits. There is no claim that the case was not fully and adequately presented and tried.\"\"\n\nAccording to; \"IN THE MATTER OF THE ESTATE OF KEALIIAHONUI, Deceased. PETITION FOR REVOGATION OF ORDER ADMITTING WILL TO PROBATE, AND APPOINTMENT or ADMINISTRATOR. APPEAL FROM DOLE, J. HEARING, FEBRUARY 23, 1893. DECISION, JUNE 2, 1893\". The petition reads as follows; \"\"An executor of a deceased wife's estate filed a petition to revoke an order admitting to probate the will of K., who it was claimed was the uncle of petitioner's executrix, and a plea in bar thereto was sustained. (8 Hawl 93.) The same person filed another petition with the same object, claiming to be a purchaser of the rights of another person alleged to be a niece and heir of the testator, K. A party in interest pleads the former proceedings in bar. The plea is overruled\".\" Junius Kaae was the petitioner who had filed a similar petition in 1890 along with Kapiolani, Kalakaua and others that was given a judgment dismissing it, pleaded in bar and sustained upon appeal of the full court. Levi Haʻalelea's widow, A.A. Haʻalelea (Amoe Ululani Kapukalakala Ena), pleaded the last proceeding in bar to the present (at that time) proceedings as; \"that in a proceeding heretofore had in this Court in which said J unius Kaae was a party, the identical matter now set up by said Kaae was litigated and a judgment rendered against him.\" The plea in Bar, this time, was overruled. When the decision was adjudicated, both litigants were required to sign an agreement allowing Justice/President of the Provisional Government of Hawaii, Sanford B. Dole to continue to adjudicate even though he was no longer seated on the high court but President of the Provisional Government of Hawaii after the Overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The court wrote; \"Now, therefore, it is hereby agreed that the said Honorable S. B. Dole may participate in, make, sign, file and enter a decision and judgment in this cause, upon said appeal, in like manner as though he were still in commission as a Justice of said Court.\"\n\nAlthough believed to have been a royal grove originally, the coconut grove was actually planted in 1896 by William Lindemann, a German immigrant, to harvest their oil and copra (dried meat). It was Lindemann's hope that he would someday operate a vast copra empire, however he was unaware of how long the trees took to mature and the plantation was a failure. Today the vast coconut groves along the coastline are often referred to as the Coconut Coast with many of the trees outliving their expected lifespan but thinning out over time.\n\nBy the early 1950s, the site had a small businessmen's lodge owned and operated by an elderly widow named Veda Warner Hills. She had advertised for the sale of the site in 1952 which was answered by Lyle Lowell Guslander, known in the tourist industry as \"Gus\". Guslander had made a reputation for himself as \"cantankerous\", \"ornery\" and \"brilliant\". Guslander was a former assistant manager of the Palace hotel in San Francisco, California and arrived in Hawaii in 1947 to manage the Niumalu Hotel (Hilton Hawaiian Village) but was fired by Walter Child who was known to be equally unpredictably. He then began working for the Moana Hotel, beginning as assistant manager and eventually becoming general manager. Guslander asked his friend, Henry Buscher to investigate the property for him but as a liquor distributor, Buscher gave a negative report back because he could not purchase a drink there. Although Guslander did not have the funds to purchase the property outright, he managed to get a lease with the option to buy from the Territory of Hawaii.\n\nOn January 25, 1953, the Coco Palms lodge opened with 24 rooms, five employees and two guests. The lodge consisted of the main residence which had been converted into the former businessmen's lodge with eight rooms and an additional 16 rooms in a reconfigured army surplus barracks. The entire property was set in front of the beach and encompassed with over two thousand coconut trees remaining from the former Lindemann coconut plantation. Guslander hired Grace Buscher to assist him with the management of the new lodge. Although she had no previous experience, Grace was creative and had a good understanding of buyer psychology. During this early period, the hotel still had a sugarcane train running past the front of the property. The hotel was run by Island Holidays Ltd., which was owned and operated by Guslander as president. The group also included William Newport, William Mullahey and Grace Buscher, who became the general manager of the hotel. Mullahey was a regional director for Pan American Airlines. In an interview to The Garden Island newspaper, Mullahey announced the companies plans to expand and create a Hawaiian atmosphere. Development started immediately and by 1956 the lodge had converted into a cottage style hotel with 82 rooms. That same year, Guslander removed ten of the cottages to build a 24-room wing to the hotel, increasing capacity to 96 rooms.\n\nWhile the exact origins of any true Hawaiian torch-lighting ceremony is not known, it is known that the use of this dramatic incarnation of Hawaiian culture, done at many Hawaiian Hotels, began at the Coconut Palms Hotel with Grace Buscher making the first \"call\". The ceremony would become a big part of the Coco Palms story. Hawaiians dressed in a traditional malo would blow A conch shell and beat a drum, as the call is answered by one man running across the coconut grove, lighting torches on his way until the entire lagoon was lit. In the book \"Kauai: 100 Years in Postcards\", author Stormy Cozad states that while the torch-lighting ceremony was synonymous with the Coco Palms, it was not actually a true Hawaiian ceremony but a dramatic call to dinner for guests using bits of Hawaiian culture displayed as parts of Hawaiian history were narrated during the lighting. Post cards from the time depict a number of local Hawaiian residents performing the ceremony including: Sebastian Alalem blowing the conch shell, Willie Carrillo beating the drum and John Keleohi lighting the torch. The event would be followed by an hour long Polynesian themed show in the dining room. Bruscher had a firepit built for roasting a pig in full view of guest to entice them into the Lagoon Dining Room, one of three dining areas at the hotel, helping to distract guests away from the train passing by. Another longtime employee was entertainer Larry Rivera who began at the hotel as a waiter even before it became the Coco Palms.\n\nAlmost immediately Hollywood took an active interest in the Coco Palms beginning in May 1953 with the filming of \"Miss Sadie Thompson\" starring Rita Hayworth. The Chapel in the Palm was built by the studio in the Coconut Grove specifically for this production. The film was shot in Technicolor and 3D on location in and around the Coco Palms property and the Wailua River. Along with Hayworth were actors Jose Ferrer, Aldo Ray, director Curtis Bernhardt and the entire crew of the production also staying at the hotel. Using the Hollywood chapel, Grace Buscher would invent the Hawaiian Wedding for tourists. In 1926 Charles E. King wrote the song \"Ke Kali Nei Au\" (Waiting There for Thee) for the musical production \"The Prince of Hawaii\". The song was originally recorded in 1928 by Helen Desha Beamer with its original Hawaiian language lyrics. It would then be recorded in 1951 by Bing Crosby with an English translation. In 1958 Al Hoffman and Dick Manning wrote additional English lyrics for Andy Williams. Now called \"Hawaiian Wedding Song\", it was featured prominently in the film \"Blue Hawaii\", starring Elvis Presley, whose character is married at the lagoon at the Coco Palms in the movie's finale. The hotel made a big business of selling \"Blue Hawaii\" weddings that recreated the floating wedding ceremony depicted in the film. Extras for this wedding package included two singers performing \"Hawaiian Wedding Song\" and a conch shell blower. The hotel looked a lot like a movie set with similar details such as cement coco palm pillars.\n\nAnother ceremony established by Grace Buscher was the Coco Palms tree planting ceremony. The idea was to help replenish the trees that had begun to die in the grove planted by Lindeman. It was established on May 10, 1955, to honor notable people of Kauai, Hawaii and around the world. The first tree planting was for a local radio personality named Webley Edwards of the show \"Hawaii Calls\". The ceremonies continued until 1980 and ended with the 127th tree planting for architect John Gregg Allerton. Others who have had trees planted in their name include: Duke Kahanamoku, Gene Autry, Liberace, James A. Michener, ʻIolani Luahine (Kumu hula) as well as the Kawānanakoa ohana (family).\n\nThe resort has been closed since being hit by Hurricane Iniki in 1992. Even though the hotel was closed, tours through the grounds continue with \"Hawaii Movie Tours\" which was sold to \"Robert's Hawaii\" in 2011. Bob Jaspers, the former owner of the tour, still greets guests regularly with the occasional entertainment by Larry Rivera who recounts stories of playing and touring with Elvis. Jaspers also serves as caretaker of the grounds.\nOn July 4, 2014 the resort caught fire. No one was injured and the fire was controlled by early afternoon.\n\nIn 2013 the Coco Palms Hui LLC was incorporated. The company is run by Chad Waters and Tyler Greene who hired Agor Architects as their design firm and Unlimited Construction as their general contractor. Coco Palms Ventures, based in Maryland, had purchased the property in 2005, and they transferred the at $11.2 million to Prudential Insurance company as the lender. The buyers, Waters and Greene, estimated the cost to rebuild the hotel and restaurants at over $100 million.\n\nIn 2016, GreeneWaters LLC, operating as the Coco Palms Hui in conjunction with Hyatt Development's Unbound program, began demolition of the old structures in preparation for construction of a new resort. Tyler Greene, the lead developer, was quoted as saying, \"Our mantra on this has been to honor the past and celebrate the future.\"\n\nDemolition of the existing buildings began in June 2016.\n\nIn 2009 Waldeen K. Palmeira and the Native Hawaiian Legal Corporation had attempted to seek a preliminary injunction and summary judgment against the Department of Transportation for a widening project that involved a portion of the Coco Palms property.\n\nNoa Mau-Espirito, a student of Kauaʻi immersion schools and 2009 graduate of Kapaa High School who has studied ʻōlelo Hawaiʻi since his childhood, began occupying a portion of the Coco Palms resort in early 2016 with a royal land patent from the Kingdom of Hawaii. After researching his genealogy and history of the local land, Mau-Espirito discovered a link to the area. With help from a few others, he began to plant taro and other traditional plants, care for burials and the nearby heiau, and clear a roadway of overgrowth with the goal of \"living self-sustainably\" on the land. Noa Mau-Espirito and his cousin Kamuela Kapule O Kamehameha believe their royal patent, called a \"Palapala Sila Nui\", gives their family land rights in perpetuity. Mau-Espirita stated: \"Because my bloodline goes straight to Kaumualii, because Kamu's bloodline goes straight to Kapule, we have vested rights and vested interests in this land that nobody can take away from us.\" and \"Once a royal patent is made, it's in that family's name forever. All the kids in that bloodline will be able to come on this land.\" A number of other kanaka maoli, some who were formerly houseless and also descendants of Kauaʻi royalty, joined in his efforts. The group has had encounters by police several times but Kapule believes this is a civil matter.\n\nAn attempt was made by the Coco Palms Hui to evict them and ban them from entering the property, calling them \"squatters\", and filing trespass complaints with the Kauaʻi Police Department on February 11 and March 11, 2017. However, on May 17, Judge Michael Soong of the Fifth Circuit Court denied Coco Palms Hui's ex-parte motion to remove the families, ruling that property ownership had not yet been fully determined.\n\nThis situation closely follows arrests in Wainiha on Kauaʻi's Northern Coast, involving similar land claim assertions, and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's attempt to clear hundreds of ancient land titles from his Pilaʻa, Kauaʻi compound, which angered Hawaiians greatly, triggering international attention to the land issues on Kauaʻi, and Hawaiʻi as a whole.\n\nSources:\n\n"}
{"id": "43610634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43610634", "title": "Colombians in Spain", "text": "Colombians in Spain\n\nThe presence of Colombians in Spain dates back to the 1980s.\n\nIn 2015 in Spain there were 145,490 Colombian nationals in Spain and 203,675 Colombian-born naturalized Spanish citizens. The total Colombian-born population in Spain for that year was 356,475 people. The overall Colombian population decreased significantly due to emigration as the result of Spain´s protracted 2008-2016 economic crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "14541120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14541120", "title": "Conflict analysis", "text": "Conflict analysis\n\nConflict analysis or conflict assessment is an initial stage of conflict resolution in which parties seek to gain a deeper understanding of the dynamics in their relationship. For instance, in Darfur, conflict analysis of the Fur-Arab War in 1987 noted that: from time immemorial, seasonal fluctuations in water and grazing land had led to conflict over natural resources in Darfur.\n\nWhen there is a disagreement in the methods used to achieve an end result, and there is a disparity between a unified vision and direction, opposing sides are subject to conflict. If these sides consistently misinterpret one another, a problematic situation can spiral out of control rapidly. Conflicts are not always linear in nature. Members of multiple organizational levels with varying statuses can all partake in conflict. When undergoing analysis, it is integral to understand the reasons that spark such disagreement to effectively reach its resolution. Many schools, such as Eastern Mennonite University's Center for Justice and Peacebuilding, George Mason University, Nova Southeastern University, University of the Rockies, and Wayne State University have programs related to conflict analysis and resolution. There are also various subsets of conflict analysis such as environmental conflict analysis, which deal with specific types of disputes. In certain occasions a conflict atlas is used to show graphically the analysis of the conflict. The prefixes macro- and micro- are used in conjunctions with conflicts to denote the scale of the conflict, macro referring to a larger scale conflict and micro referring to a conflicting situation on a smaller scale. Conflicts can arise at different levels, from intrapersonal to interpersonal issues as well as between two individuals or between two countries as a whole. The outcome dictates how we refer to a given conflict. When a result is the change in the status quo, that conflict is now referred to as a revolution.\n\nCelia Cook-Hoffman defines 'Identity' as \"how individuals and collectives see and understand themselves in a conflict.\" Identity plays a vital role in a conflicting situation. How the opponent perceives their competition dictates how they will move forward with the conflict. Conversely, the opponent is also aware of how they are perceived and understands they are obligated to maintain their reputation throughout the conflict. This can give rise to defensive tactics as well as to retaliation. In this aspect, identity is not unlike reputation. Identities are a social construct, and once cemented, are almost impossible to alter.\n\nSnyder writes that women are seen as \"victims\" of war. Gender proves to be significant in the analysis of conflicts. Women are likely to be perceived as individuals who have no control of a conflict. Snyder also notes that women are \"considered legitimate targets and make up 90 percent of all casualties.\" The majority of refugees are also females. In conflicts such as war, widows are forced to become the new head of the household, assuming all the responsibilities that their husband would normally do so. Also, When contemplating a resolution of a conflict, the lack of inclusion of women from an issues inception to execution has an effect on post-conflict analysis.\n\nRothbart notes that factors that spark international conflict are \"struggles between beliefs, behaviors, and environmental conditions as they are as they should be\" Another motive that inspires conflict is the need for retribution. It is said that major conflicts can arise from underlying historical disagreements that bubble over periodically. It is also found that the aggressor's identity plays a role in causation of a conflict.\n\nIn times of war Korostelina writes that \"non-combatants suffer most\" because they are nothing but victims of any conflict. More innocent civilian blood is shed than any other conflict-related party. Korostelina also adds that civilians \"are war's survivors or its collateral damage accentuating the fact that prisoners of war are likely to be the individuals who suffer most during any conflict.\n\nBercovitch notes that there are several methods to conflict mediation. Bercovitch lists these methods as \"negotiation, inquiry, conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlements, and resorts to regional agencies and arrangements.\" \n\n\nAmsterdam Center for Conflict Studies (ACS)<br>\nCentre for International Conflict Analysis and Management (CICAM) (Nijmegen, Netherlands)\n"}
{"id": "378092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378092", "title": "Coronations in Poland", "text": "Coronations in Poland\n\nCoronations in Poland officially began in 1025 and continued until 1764, when the final king of an independent Poland, Stanisław August Poniatowski, was crowned at St. John's Cathedral in Warsaw. Most Polish coronations took place at the Wawel Cathedral in Kraków, but crownings also occurred in Poznań and at Gniezno Cathedral. Whenever practical, Polish coronations were conducted as close as possible as to the date of the previous sovereign's funeral. This was explained by Joachim Bielski in the sixteenth century as \"osoba umiera, korona nie umiera\", or \"the person dies, the crown dies not\". With the emergence of an independent, republican Poland after World War I, coronations in the Polish state have been rendered obsolete.\n\nThough many of the Polish Crown Jewels were stolen and destroyed by King Frederick William III of Prussia in March 1809 after the Third Partition of Poland, remaining pieces are exhibited at the National Museum in Warsaw.\n\nDuring the period when coronations were held in Kraków, the following order was observed: on the eve of his coronation, the new monarch fasted, gave alms, and partook of the Catholic sacrament of confession. He then walked on foot from the royal Wawel Castle to the Basilica of St. Stanisław, patron saint of Poland. Unlike the remainder of the service, the royal procession was opened to the Polish masses. On the morning of the ceremony, the king was met in his bedchamber by a procession consisting of the local Metropolitan Archbishop and other notables. Wearing Episcopal clothing, the monarch was blessed with holy water and incensed. Following this, king, metropolitan and the others made their way in procession to the cathedral.\n\nInside the church, the Polish regalia were laid on the high altar, while the king was seated on a low chair nearby. The royal oath was administered, and the new monarch then knelt before the altar. Two mitred abbots next entered from a side chapel, carrying a mixture of holy oils, with which the ruler was then anointed. Following this, the king was handed a sword, which he used to trace a cross in the air. Next he was crowned by the Archbishop, assisted by two other bishops, following which he received his orb and scepter. The high mass continued, with the newly crowned sovereign receiving Holy Communion, then kissing a crucifix and mounting his throne. Following this, the king created several new knights, then attended a coronation feast and rode into the public square on horseback, where he received the homage of his subjects while seated in a large chair.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \"\"K\" indicates a king or queen regnant; \"Q\" indicates a queen consort.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "573561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573561", "title": "Corruption scandals in the Paris region", "text": "Corruption scandals in the Paris region\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s there were, in the Paris region (Île-de-France), multiple instances of alleged and proved political corruption cases, as well as cases of abuse of public money and resources. Almost all involved were members of the conservative Rally for the Republic (RPR) ruling party, which became the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) in 2002.\n\nJacques Chirac was mayor of Paris from 1977 to 1995 and has been named in several cases of alleged corruption and abuse, some of which have already led to felony convictions.\n\nChirac, as president of France (until 16 May 2007), enjoyed virtual immunity from prosecution for acts preceding his tenure as president, following from decision 98-408 DC of the Constitutional Council on 22 January 1999. This decision itself was highly controversial: the council was consulted on the treaty establishing the International Criminal Court, not about the status of the president with respect to the national criminal justice system. At the time, the president of the council was Roland Dumas, who later had to retire from his functions because of his implication in the Elf Aquitaine scandal.\n\nChirac refused to testify before investigating magistrate Éric Halphen, arguing that this would be incompatible with his presidential functions.\n\nOn 10 October 2001, the Court of Cassation ruled that, while the president cannot be prosecuted by normal judicial means during his mandate, such an impossibility suspends the delays of prescription (statute of limitation). If Chirac does not run for office again in 2007 or is not re-elected, he may then be prosecuted on the several affairs he is involved in. This might explain why in 2003 some in the presidential entourage floated around the idea of Chirac running for a third term.\n\nChirac's foremost critic was deputy Arnaud Montebourg of the Socialist Party, who filed a motion to bring him in front of the High Court of Justice (a procedure similar to impeachment, which has never been applied).\n\nIn several districts of Paris, people were allegedly illegally registered on the electoral rolls in an attempt to modify the outcome of elections. In some egregious cases, significant numbers of people were registered at the address of a hotel or of a shop.\n\n\nThere was a shock when a videocassette of businessman was disclosed after his death in 1999, with \"Le Monde\" publishing its full contents in September 2000. In the tape, Méry gave details of kickback schemes in the Paris region; in particular, he said that he delivered FRF 5 million in cash to Michel Roussin, chief of staff of then prime minister Jacques Chirac, \"in Chirac's presence\". \"We only work on Mr. Chirac's orders,\" Méry said in the video. It was on these grounds that investigating magistrate Éric Halphen summoned president Jacques Chirac in March 2001 as witness, declaring that there were sufficients \"clues\" to warrant a full investigation. In September 2001, the Paris Appeal Court cancelled part of the proceedings on procedural vices, and removing the affair from judge Halphen's hands. In February 2005, investigating magistrate Armand Riberolles, who succeeded Halphen, abandoned charges against Jean Tiberi (who succeeded Chirac as mayor of Paris), who as former president of the OPAC (\"Office Public d'Aménagement et de Construction\") of Paris, was prosecuted for \"complicity in corruption\" (\"complicité de traffic d'influence\").\n\nAs of January 2006, several CEOs had been prosecuted in the trial, but not one politician. 49 businessmen, among them , CEO of company and close to Chirac, were prosecuted. According to \"Le Monde\", this trial was met with \"relative indifference\". The previous investigations had led to the resignation of magistrate Éric Halphen after several cases of intimidation and a tight struggle against the executive power. Personalities such as Michel Roussin, or Jean Tiberi, former mayor of Paris, had all been previously acquitted. Investigating magistrate Armand Riberolles, who succeeded Eric Halphen, wrote that the \"instruction hadn't been able to formally establish the personal involvement of responsible members of the higher echelons of the RPR\", while noting that \"a large number of testimonies, cross-checked by various factual elements, show that Jean-Claude Méry had been commissioned to ensure the financing of the RPR's political activities by collecting funds, in particular through the firms working with the OPAC.\" All proceedings leading to president Chirac had been thrown out in September 2001 by the Paris Court of Appeal, leading to the resignation of judge Halphen.\n\nAbout 40 are under investigation for the alleged corruption at the Île-de-France regional council. Inquiries showed that 2% of the payments from the Île-de-France council to companies involved in building or repairs on the region's high schools were to be channeled as kickbacks to political parties, either through legal contributions (permitted under the 15 January 1990 law then in force), or through cash deliveries of fictitious employment (i.e. staff of political parties or politicians being paid by the involved companies). According to the enquiry, 1.2% went to the RPR, 0.8% to the French Socialist Party. Michel Giraud, then president of the Île-de-France region, was one of the prime suspects. The following companies admitted to such practices: , , (GTM), Bouygues, CBC, Nord France, Dumez, Chagnaud, Fougerolle, SAEP, SCGPM, (SPIE).\n\nIn March 2005, the case went to trial before the Paris correctional court On October 2005, former president of the Île-de-France region Michel Giraud was condemned to four years of prison on probation and to pay an 80 000 euros fine; Michel Roussin, former chief of staff of Jacques Chirac, was also condemned to four years of prison on probation and to a 50 000 euros fine. These sentences were accompanied by a 5 years suspension of civil and familial rights. Louise-Yvonne Cassetta and Guy Drut were also condemned on probation. Among the 47 persons prosecuted, only Gérard Longuet, former president of the republican party, was acquitted. \"Libération\" could state that: \"Only one - big - absence in this trial and judgment: Jacques Chirac, whose shadow has constantly towered this four months debate\".\n\nDuring the tenure of Jacques Chirac as mayor of Paris, some people paid by the city government actually worked (full-time) for the RPR party.\n\nAlain Juppé, former secretary-general of the RPR (1988–1995) and former deputy mayor in charge of finances of the City of Paris (1983–1995) was convicted along with accomplices and of abuse of public funds when he employed people on the city's payroll to perform tasks wholly for the benefit of his party. On 31 January 2004, Alain Juppé was sentenced by the correctional court of Nanterre to 18-month suspended sentence, as well as the deprivation of the right to vote for five years and the right to run for national office for 10 years (reduced on appeal to one year). On 1 December 2004, the Versailles court of appeals reduced the sentence to a 14-month suspended sentence and a deprivation of the right to hold political office for one year. Juppé did not go to the Court of Cassation over this sentence, and had to resign from his position as mayor of Bordeaux.\n\nAnother scandal erupted after the ruling when the judges of the Nanterre court alleged that their offices and computers had been searched. President Chirac ordered an administration inquiry commission, composed of high-level magistrates (the vice-president of the Council of State, and the first presidents of the Court of Cassation and the Court of Auditors), to investigate the matter. This decision was criticized because there was no legal nor constitutional basis for it: normally, questions of judicial honesty are handled by the \"Conseil Supérieur de la Magistrature\" (CSM), which (politely) protested Chirac's action. The Nanterre judges refused to be heard by the commission, arguing they should see the CSM. The commission concluded that there had been security lapses at the Nanterre court, but did not conclude that there was any wrongdoing. A criminal investigation has also been opened.\n\nOn 3 December 2004, the Court of Cassation ruled that a court of appeals had incorrectly ruled that some cases of employment by or payments received from the City of Paris (under the Chirac and Tiberi administrations) for fictitious work fell under prescription (statute of limitations). The court announced that the cases were now referred to the Versailles Court of Appeals. The current administration of the City of Paris, led by Socialist mayor Bertrand Delanoë, had appealed the prescription ruling before the Court of Cassation. Among the suspects are the deputy of Paris Jean de Gaulle, former minister Robert Pandraud etc.\n\nXavière Tiberi, the spouse of mayor of Paris Jean Tiberi, received FRF 200,000 (approx. €30,000) for a report on francophonie for the general council of the Essonne \"département\". This 36-page report, possibly written after the payment as a justification, was extremely poorly written and contained numerous spelling and grammatical mistakes.\n\nIn 2004, mayor Bertrand Delanoë filed a complaint for the past abuse of City of Paris gardening services for private purposes, estimating the public losses to at least €700,000. Individuals close to the RPR allegedly enjoyed free gardening services from City of Paris employees in their houses of the upscale areas of Paris and suburbs. City supplies were allegedly also taken for private usage.\n\n"}
{"id": "16711316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711316", "title": "Domestic violence in Guyana", "text": "Domestic violence in Guyana\n\nDomestic violence in Guyana is widespread and crosses racial and socioeconomic lines. The law prohibits domestic violence, gives women the right to seek prompt protection, and allows victims to seek protection, occupation, or tenancy orders from a magistrate. Penalties for violation of protection orders include fines up to 54 (G$10,000) and 12 months' imprisonment; however, this legislation frequently is not enforced.\n\nThe government uses laws and policies against domestic violence with some measure of success; the problems lie with the failure of those responsible for implementation. Magistrates and magistrate court staff are often insensitive to the problem of domestic violence and to their roles in ensuring implementation of the law. In addition, not all police officers fully understand provisions of the law.\n\nNGOs report a widespread perception that some police officers and magistrates could be bribed to make cases of domestic violence \"go away.\" The government also does not prosecute cases in which the alleged victim or victim's family agreed to drop the case in exchange for a monetary payment out of court. NGOs assert the need for a specialized Family Court.\n\nDomestic violence is a problem in all regions of the country. Enforcement of the domestic violence laws is especially weak in the interior, where police do not have as strong a presence and courts meet only once a quarter.\n\nBetween January and September 2006, Help and Shelter handled 414 abuse cases, including child, spousal, nonspousal, and other domestic abuse; 297 of the cases involved spousal abuse directed against women. Help and Shelter, which received private donor and some government funding, ran a free shelter for victims of domestic violence and operated a hotline to counsel victims.\n\nNGOs run public service announcements and train police officers, teachers, nurses, agricultural workers, religious groups, and health clinics to sensitize them to domestic violence. Domestic violence training is part of the curriculum of the Police Training College. There is a Task Force on Violence against Women whose membership includes representatives from NGOs, law enforcement, the health community, and youth. The Task Force has gathered data in preparation for drafting a national policy on domestic violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "46708172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46708172", "title": "Eli Northrup", "text": "Eli Northrup\n\nEli Clemans Northrup (born December 14, 1984) is an American criminal defense attorney, songwriter, and rapper. Northrup grew up in Bethesda, Maryland, and attended Cornell University. Northrup graduated from New York University School of Law. While at NYU Law, he became involved in indigent criminal defense, and also became known as a rapper.\n\nAfter law school, Northrup worked as a judicial law clerk for U.S. District Judge Robert Porter Patterson Jr. of the Southern District of New York and went on to clerk for Julio M. Fuentes on the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. After his clerkship, he worked as an E. Barrett Prettyman Fellow at Georgetown University Law Center. Northrup currently works as a criminal defense attorney with The Bronx Defenders in Bronx, New York. \nNorthrup was born in Washington D.C. and grew up in Bethesda, MD. From 1999-2003, he attended Walt Whitman High School where he played on the football team.\n\nAfter high school, Northrup attended Cornell University. While at Cornell, he played Sprint Football. As a varsity athlete at Cornell, Northrup was able to maintain a 4.0 GPA during the Fall 2005 semester and became a member of Cornell's 400 Club. In 2006, he started a rap/hip-hop band—Pants Velour—with two Cornell undergraduate classmates. In 2007, Northrup earned a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology with a concentration in Law & Society from Cornell. \nIn 2008, Northrup began studies in the Juris Doctor program at New York University School of Law. At NYU Law, Northrup was an Arthur Garfield Hays Civil Liberties Fellow and \"Review of Law & Social Change\" staff development editor. He taught legal research classes to prison inmates with the Prisoners' Rights and Education Project, and served as a student advocate with the Neighborhood Defender Service of Harlem as a member of the NYU Criminal and Community Defense Clinic. He also interned at the Legal Aid Society in the Bronx, the Orleans Public Defenders, the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia, and the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. Northrup was a NYU Law captain in the annual Deans' Cup basketball fundraiser game against Columbia University Law School. In 2011, Northrup graduated \"cum laude\" from NYU School of Law and was awarded the Ann Petluck Poses Memorial Prize for outstanding work in a clinical course.\n\nIn 2012, the Washington Post photographed Northrup holding an Robert Griffin III ‘Hope’ poster at the 2012 NFL draft. Northrup then appeared in ESPN the Magazine, Sports Illustrated, and The Washington Post holding the same sign, during the Redskins v. Seahawks playoff game in 2013.\n\nAfter law school, Northrup worked as a judicial law clerk for U.S. District Judge Robert Porter Patterson Jr. of the Southern District of New York. He then went on to clerk for Julio M. Fuentes on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. After his clerkship, Northrup became an E. Barrett Prettyman Fellow in the Criminal Defense and Prisoner Advocacy Clinic at Georgetown University Law Center. The E. Barrett Prettyman and Stuart Stiller Fellowship Program combines instruction in the Law Center's graduate school with representation of indigent clients in the local courts of the District of Columbia. Northrup handles criminal cases in New York.\n\nIn 2006, Northrup, Nellie Thompson, Sam Coe, and Josh Raff formed Pants Velour while undergraduate students at Cornell University. After graduating in 2007, the members reunited in New York City in 2008. Northrup is a rapper in the group and has also been considered a \"Hypeman\" who pumps up the crowd.\n\nWhile a student at NYU, Pants Velour—featuring Northrup—made a rap video entitled, \"Charlie Sheen: Always Winning,\" that became popular on YouTube. The song was inspired by Sheen’s interview on ABC television. Above the Law (blog) ran a blurb on the story, and it became a story in the legal community. Am Law Daily’s Careerist blog called it “fast and saucy—especially amazing coming from a serious law student.” While in law school, Northrup regularly performed with Pants Velour.\n\nIn 2015, Northrup and Pants Velour made a mashup featuring Bernie Sanders and Hypnotize (The Notorious B.I.G. song).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40737486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40737486", "title": "Forest Hero Award", "text": "Forest Hero Award\n\nThe United Nations Forest Hero Award was established in 2011, the International Year of Forests, to recognise individuals who have devoted their lives to protecting forests. Awards are given annually to one person in each of five regions: Africa, Asia and the Pacific, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean, and North America.\n\nThe 2011 winners were announced at the 2012 UN Forum on Forests in New York. Selected from 90 nominees in 41 countries, the winners were:\n\n\nA special award recognised the work of a deceased couple, José Claudio Ribeiro and Maria do Espírito Santo, Brazil.\n\nThe 2012 winners were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1516710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516710", "title": "Formication", "text": "Formication\n\nIn medicine, formication is the sensation that resembles that of small insects crawling on (or under) the skin. It is one specific form of a set of sensations known as paresthesias, which also include the more common prickling, tingling sensation known as \"pins and needles\". Formication is a well documented symptom, which has numerous possible causes. The word is derived from \"formica\", the Latin word for ant.\n\nFormication may sometimes be experienced as feelings of itchiness, tingling, pins and needles, burning, or even pain. When formication is perceived as itchiness, it may trigger the scratch reflex, and because of this, some people who experience the sensation are at risk of causing skin damage through excessive scratching.\n\nIn some instances, static electricity can attract particulates to the skin and can also cause body hair to move, giving a sensation like insects crawling over the skin. However, in many cases no external trigger creates the sensation.\n\nIn rare cases, individuals become convinced that the sensation is due to the presence of real insects on or under the skin. In these cases, patients have what is known as delusional parasitosis. They believe that their skin is inhabited by, or under attack by, small insects or similar parasites, despite repeated reassurances from physicians, pest control experts, and entomologists.\n\nCauses of formication include normal states such as onset of menopause (i.e. hormone withdrawal). Other causes are medical conditions such as pesticide exposure, mercury poisoning, diabetic neuropathy, skin cancer, syphilis, Lyme disease or herpes zoster (shingles). Formication can be a result of stimulant intoxication (e.g. methamphetamines, cocaine) or alcohol withdrawal in alcoholics (i.e. delirium tremens), and is often accompanied by visual hallucinations of insects (formicanopia). It can also occur as a symptom of benzodiazepine withdrawal, withdrawal from medication such as SSRI/SNRI antidepressants and Tramadol; and as a side effect of opioid analgesics.\n\nFormication is etymologically derived from the Latin word \"formica\", meaning \"ant\", precisely because of this similarity in sensation to that of crawling insects. The term has been in use for several hundred years. In the 1797 edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica, a description of the condition raphania includes the symptom:\n\nDescribed again in an instructional text from 1890:\n\nA variety of itching, often encountered in the eczema of elderly people, is formication; this is described as exactly like the crawling of myriads of animals over the skin. It is probably due to the successive irritation of nerve fibrils in the skin. At times patients who suffer from it will scarcely be persuaded that it is not due to insects. Yielding to the temptation to scratch invariably makes the disease worse.\n\n"}
{"id": "31610274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31610274", "title": "Goubbiah, mon amour", "text": "Goubbiah, mon amour\n\nGoubbiah, mon amour () is a French romance drama film from 1956, directed by Robert Darène, written by René Barjavel, starring Jean Marais. The scenario was based on a novel of Jean Martet. The film was known under the title \"Cita en el Sol\" (Spain), \"Kiss of Fire\" (UK), and \"Liebe unter heißem Himmel\" (West Germany).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49704868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49704868", "title": "Herbert L. Packer", "text": "Herbert L. Packer\n\nHerbert Leslie Packer (1925–December 6, 1972) was an American law professor and criminologist. His key work is the book \"The Limits of the Criminal Sanction\" (1968), which proposed two models of the criminal justice system, the crime control model and the due process model. These models were extremely influential in criminology and criminal policy debates.\n\nPacker was born in Jersey City, New Jersey. He earned a B.A. in government and international relations in 1944 from Yale University and was admitted to Phi Beta Kappa. He earned an LL.B. in 1949 from Yale Law School and was article editor of the \"Yale Law Journal\".\n\nPacker was a law clerk for Judge Thomas Walter Swan from 1949 to 1950. After working for the law firm of Cox, Langford, Stoddard & Cutler, he became a law professor at Stanford in 1956. He married Nancy Packer, author and daughter of U.S. Representative George Huddleston, in 1958. They are the parents of authors Ann Packer and George Packer. He was Vice Provost for Academic Planning and Programs at Stanford from 1967 to 1969. He suffered a serious stroke in 1969 but returned to Stanford later that year. He became the Jackson Eli Reynolds Professor of Law in 1971.\n\nIn 1969, Packer suffered a stroke that partially paralyzed him. Three years later, Packer committed suicide at the age of 46 in San Francisco. He did not finish a planned biography of Learned Hand.\n\nHis first book, \"Ex-Communist Witnesses: Four Studies in Fact Finding\" (1962), discussed the testimony of four individuals involved in legal investigations into Communism in the United States: Whittaker Chambers, Elizabeth Bentley, Louis Budenz, and John Lautner. \"The Limits of the Criminal Sanction\" was awarded the Coif Book Award in 1970 by the Order of the Coif, an honor society for law school graduates.\n\nIn an article in \"The Nation\" called \"A Measure of Achievement\" (1964), Packer concluded that the Warren Commission did a \"conscientious and at times brilliant job\" compiling the Warren Report and concurred that it proved \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" that U.S. President John F. Kennedy was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\n"}
{"id": "6923064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6923064", "title": "Huanca people", "text": "Huanca people\n\nThe Huancas, Wancas, or Wankas are a Quechua people living in the Junín Region of central Peru, in and around the Mantaro Valley.\n\nThe southern branch of Huanca people are called the Wanka Waylla Quechua and Southern Huancayo Quechua. The Jauja Wanka are also called Wanka Jauja Quechua and Shawsha Wanka Quechua people. They gave their name to the Peruvian football team Deportivo Wanka.\n\nAfter fierce fighting, the Huanca people were conquered by Pachacuti and incorporated into the Inca Empire. The Huanca helped the Spaniards during the conquest of Peru. They provided supplies and men to the Spanish army.\n\nThe Huanca people speak Jauja Wanka Quechua and Waylla Wanka Quechua, both Quechua I languages. These languages differ significantly from the Incas' Quechua of Cusco. (see Mantaro Valley)\n"}
{"id": "341299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341299", "title": "Ilse Koch", "text": "Ilse Koch\n\nIlse Koch (; née Margarete Ilse Köhler; 22 September 1906 – 1 September 1967, known as the Witch of Buchenwald) was the wife of Karl-Otto Koch, commandant of the Nazi concentration camps Buchenwald (1937–1941) and Majdanek (1941–1943). In 1947, she became one of the first prominent Nazis tried by the U.S. military.\n\nAfter the trial received worldwide media attention, survivor accounts of her actions resulted in other authors describing her abuse of prisoners as sadistic, and the image of her as \"the concentration camp murderess\" was current in post-war German society. \n\nShe was accused of taking souvenirs from the skin of murdered inmates with distinctive tattoos, although those claims were rejected at both of her trials. She was known as \"The Witch of Buchenwald\" (\"Die Hexe von Buchenwald\") by the inmates because of her cruelty and toward prisoners. In English, she is referred to as: \"The Beast of Buchenwald\", \"Queen of Buchenwald\", \"Red Witch of Buchenwald\", \"Butcher Widow\", and, more commonly, \"The Bitch of Buchenwald\".\n\nKoch was born in Dresden, Germany, the daughter of a factory foreman. She was known as a polite and happy child in her elementary school. At the age of 15, she entered an accountancy school. Later, she went to work as a bookkeeping clerk. At the time the economy of Germany had not yet recovered from Germany's defeat in World War I. In 1932, she became a member of the rising Nazi Party. Through some friends in the SA and SS, she met Karl-Otto Koch in 1934, marrying him two years later.\n\nIn 1936, she began working as a guard and secretary at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp near Berlin, which her fiancé commanded, and was married the same year. In 1937 she came to Buchenwald when her husband was made Commandant. While at Buchenwald, Koch allegedly engaged in a gruesome experiment, where it was claimed that she ordered selected tattooed prisoners to be murdered and skinned to retrieve the tattooed parts of their bodies. It was allegedly done to help a prison doctor, , in his dissertation on tattooing and criminality.\n\nIn 1940, she built an indoor sports arena, which cost over 250,000 reichsmarks (approximately $62,500), most of which had been seized from the inmates. In 1941 Karl Otto Koch was transferred to Lublin, where he helped establish the Majdanek concentration and extermination camp. Ilse Koch remained at Buchenwald until 24 August 1943, when she and her husband were arrested on the orders of Josias von Waldeck-Pyrmont, SS and Police Leader for Weimar, who had supervisory authority over Buchenwald. The charges against the Kochs comprised private enrichment, embezzlement, and the murder of prisoners to prevent them from giving testimony.\n\nIlse Koch was imprisoned until 1944 when she was acquitted for lack of evidence. Her husband was found guilty and sentenced to death by an SS court in Munich, and was executed by firing squad on 5 April 1945 in the court of the camp he once commanded. She went to live with her surviving family in the town of Ludwigsburg, where she was arrested by U.S. authorities on 30 June 1945.\n\nKoch and 30 other accused were arraigned before the American military court at Dachau (General Military Government Court for the Trial of War Criminals) in 1947. Prosecuting her was future United States Court of Claims Judge Robert L. Kunzig. She was charged with \"participating in a criminal plan for aiding, abetting and participating in the murders at Buchenwald\".\n\nKoch announced in the courtroom that she was eight months pregnant but on 19 August 1947, she was sentenced to life imprisonment for \"violation of the laws and customs of war\".\n\nGen. Lucius D. Clay was the interim military governor of the American Zone in Germany, and he reduced the judgment to four years' imprisonment on 8 June 1948, after she had served two years of her sentence, on the grounds that \"there was no convincing evidence that she had selected inmates for extermination in order to secure tattooed skins, or that she possessed any articles made of human skin\". News of the reduced sentence did not become public until 16 September 1948, and Clay stood firm despite the ensuing uproar. Jean Edward Smith reported in his biography \"Lucius D. Clay: An American Life\" that the general maintained that the leather lamp shades were really made out of goat skin. The book quotes a statement made by Clay years later:\n\nUnder the pressure of public opinion Koch was re-arrested in 1949 and tried before a West German court. The hearing opened on 27 November 1950 before the District Court at Augsburg and lasted seven weeks, during which 250 witnesses were heard, including 50 for the defense. Koch collapsed and had to be carried from the court in late December 1950, and again on 11 January 1951. At least four witnesses for the prosecution testified that they had seen Koch choose tattooed prisoners, who were then killed, or had seen or been involved in the process of making human-skin lampshades from tattooed skin. However, this charge was dropped by the prosecution when they could not prove lampshades or any other items were actually made from human skin.\n\nOn 15 January 1951, the Court pronounced its verdict, in a 111-page-long decision, for which Koch was not present in court. It was concluded that the previous trials in 1944 and 1947 were not a bar to proceedings under the principle of \"ne bis in idem\", as at the 1944 trial Koch had only been charged with receiving, while in 1947 she had been accused of crimes against foreigners after 1 September 1939, and not with crimes against humanity of which Germans and Austrians had been defendants both before and after that date. She was convicted of charges of incitement to murder, incitement to attempted murder and incitement to the crime of committing grievous bodily harm, and on 15 January 1951 was sentenced to life imprisonment and permanent forfeiture of civil rights.\n\nKoch appealed to have the judgment quashed, but the appeal was dismissed on 22 April 1952 by the Federal Court of Justice. She later made several petitions for a pardon, all of which were rejected by the Bavarian Ministry of Justice. Koch protested her life sentence, to no avail, to the International Human Rights Commission.\n\nKarl and Ilse Koch had two sons, one of whom committed suicide after the war \"because he couldn't live with the shame of the crimes of his parents.\" Another son, Uwe, conceived in her prison cell at Dachau with a fellow German prisoner, was born in the Aichach prison near Dachau where Koch was sent to serve her life sentence and was immediately taken from her. At the age of 19, Uwe Köhler learned that Koch was his mother and began visiting her regularly at Aichach.\n\nKoch hanged herself at Aichach women's prison on 1 September 1967 at age 60. She suffered from delusions and had become convinced that concentration camp survivors would abuse her in her cell.\n\nIn 1971, her son Uwe sought posthumous rehabilitation for his mother.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49799202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49799202", "title": "International Honor Quilt", "text": "International Honor Quilt\n\nThe International Honor Quilt\" (also known as the International Quilting Bee\") is a collective feminist art project initiated in 1980 by Judy Chicago as a companion piece to \"The Dinner Party\". The piece is a collection of 539 two-foot-long quilted triangles that honor women from around the world. Through the Flower, Chicago's not-for-profit organization, gifted the collection to University of Louisville Hite Art Institute in 2013 to be available for research and to exhibit.\n\nIn Judy Chicago's autobiography, \"Beyond the Flower\", she discusses initiating the International Quilting Bee, stating that \"people would be invited to submit their triangular quilts. . .honoring women of their own determination. By doing this, I intended to provide an opportunity for community participation and also to counter another criticism that had emerged, this time about my choices of women.\"\n\nIndividual Quilt panels were often created by groups of women after viewing or hearing about Chicago's \"Dinner Party\" . For example, a group from the Chrysallis Center at Saginaw Valley State University, Michigan, visited the Dinner Party exhibition in Chicago in 1981. Returning to Saginaw via bus that evening, they decided they needed to create a quilt panel and submit it to the project. Under the leadership of Rosalie (Riegle) Troester, an English instructor at the University, and Trish Nowicke, Campus Minister, a group of fourteen students created a multicolored butterfly wing (IQB-352) representing the growth stage it symbolizes as well as the student career counseling and support center of which they were members. They completed the project and forwarded their creation to Through the Flower for display in the next Dinner Party venue, Montreal.\n\nThe \"International Honor Quilt\" is a collection of 539 panels of triangular quilts honoring women, women's organizations, and women's issues.\n\n\n\nWomen from around the world wanted to be a part of the feminist spirit of \"The Dinner Party\" as it toured. Twelve countries are represented with over 136 known municipalities. The University of Louisville's Digital Archives has detailed information about locations of all the quilt pieces.\n\n"}
{"id": "12765458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12765458", "title": "Iraqi Australians", "text": "Iraqi Australians\n\nIraqi Australians are Australian citizens who identify themselves to be Iraqi descent.\nSince the 1991 Gulf War, thousands of Iraqis have found refuge in Australia. The total of population is estimated to be as high as 80,000. Australia's Iraqi-born population includes Arabs, Assyrians, Chaldeans, Kurds, Armenians, Mandeans, Turkmens and Jews.\n\nThe first year in which the Australian Census of Population and Housing recorded the Iraq-born separately was 1976, when the population was 2,273. By 1986, the population had risen to 4,516. By the end of the Gulf War in 1991, it numbered 5,186, mainly in New South Wales and Victoria.\n\nMany recent arrivals have entered Australia under the Humanitarian programme. The Gulf War and the quelling of uprisings of the Shi'a and the Kurds in Iraq resulted in a large increase in the number of Iraqis coming to Australia after 1991. There were 24,760 Iraq-born people in Australia at the 2001 Census, making up 0.6 per cent of the overseas-born population.\n\nIraqi-born Victorians were first identified in the Victorian census in 1976, when 189 people were recorded. Within five years the community had almost tripled to 408, and by 1991 had increased to 603. Most Iraqis had escaped hardships caused by the eight-year Iran–Iraq War, which ended in 1988.\n\nThe outbreak of the Gulf War in 1991 led a large number of people to flee Iraq into the neighbouring countries. Some refugees lived in processing camps for up to five years before being accepted into Australia under the Special Humanitarian Program. During this period the visas of around 400 Iraqis living in Australia were extended until the end of the Gulf War.\n\nIraqi immigration to Australia peaked between 1992 and 1995, with the Iraq-born population in Victoria increasing to 3,492 by 1996. By 2001 this community had increased a further 74% to 6,091 people. Most recent Iraqi immigrants have arrived under the Family and Skilled Migration categories. Some Iraqis have sought refugee status after arrival in Australia, and have been detained pending processing.\n\nToday the Iraq-born community in Australia is culturally diverse, with settlers from many ethnic and cultural backgrounds including Arabs, Assyrians, Kurds, Turkomans. Although Islam is the dominant religion in Iraq, only 29% of the Iraq-born immigrants living in Victoria are Muslim; 68% are Christian.\n\nNearly half of the Iraqi community speaks Arabic at home; only 3% speaks English, reflecting the number of recent immigrants in the community. Over half of Iraq-born Victorians are aged under 35, and only 12% are aged over fifty. Of those in the workforce, both men and women are most commonly employed as labourers and related workers within the manufacturing industry, while nearly a quarter are employed in professional positions. The community is supported by organisations such as the Australian Iraqi Forum several religious or cultural associations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33256378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33256378", "title": "Jasti Chelameswar", "text": "Jasti Chelameswar\n\nJasti Chelameswar (born 23 June 1953) was a judge of the Supreme Court of India. He retired on 22 June 2018 as the second most senior Supreme court judge. Earlier, he was the Chief Justice of the High Court of Kerala and Gauhati High Court. He was also one of the 4 judges who held a controversial press conference against the Chief Justice of India, Dipak Misra.\n\nChelameswar was born in Peddamuttevi village of Movva mandal, Krishna district, Andhra Pradesh, the son of Jasti Lakshminarayana, a lawyer who practised at the district court, and his wife Annapoornamma. After completing his schooling in Machilipatnam, Chelameswar enrolled at Loyola College, Chennai and obtained a Bachelor's degree in Science with Physics as his major subject. He then studied Law and obtained an LLB from Andhra University, Visakhapatnam in 1976.\n\nChelameswar served as an Additional Judge at the then High Court of Andhra Pradesh. Later, he became the Chief Justice of\nGuwahati High Court in 2007. He was later transferred as the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court and was elevated as a Judge, Supreme Court of India in October 2011.\n\nAccording to an Op-Ed in The Economic Times: \n\nChelameswar and Rohinton Fali Nariman formed the two judge bench of the Supreme Court of India which struck down a controversial law which gave Indian police the power to arrest anyone accused of posting emails or other electronic messages which \"causes annoyance or inconvenience\". The judges held Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, which made such offenses punishable up to three years imprisonment, to be unconstitutional. According to Chelameswar and Nariman, several terms in the law they were striking down were \"open-ended, undefined and vague\" which made them nebulous in nature. According to the judges: \"What may be offensive to one may not be offensive to another. What may cause annoyance or inconvenience to one may not cause annoyance or inconvenience to another.”\n\nIn their judgement the judges clarified that a distinction needs to be made between discussion, advocacy, and incitement. Any discussion, or advocacy of even an unpopular cause cannot be restricted, and it is only when such discussion or advocacy reaches the level of incitement whereby it causes public disorder or affects the security of the state can it be curbed.\n\nThe judgement has been welcomed for defending the Indian Constitution's ideals of tolerance and the Constitutional provisions of free speech. It has been pointed out that the controversial law struck down by Chelameswar and Nariman had gained notoriety after many people in India started getting arrested for seemingly innocuous reasons on the ground that they had violated the now scrapped law.\n\nA three judge bench of the Indian Supreme Court, comprising Chelameswar, Sharad Arvind Bobde, and Chokkalingam Nagappan, ratified an earlier order of the Supreme Court and clarified that no Indian citizen without an Aadhaar card can be deprived of basic services and government subsidies.\n\nIn his dissenting opinion in the NJAC verdict(2015), Chelameswar had criticised the collegium system of appointing judges, which he said has become “a euphemism for nepotism” where “mediocrity or even less” is promoted and a “constitutional disorder” does not look distant.\n"}
{"id": "48465128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48465128", "title": "Joe Remiro", "text": "Joe Remiro\n\nJoseph Remiro (born 1947) is one of the founding members of the Symbionese Liberation Army. He used the pseudonym \"Bo\" while he was a member of the group. \n\nRemiro remains in San Quentin State Prison where he is serving a life sentence. He is the only member of the Symbionese Liberation Army still incarcerted, having been denied parole at least three times.\n\nRemiro was born and raised in San Francisco in a lower-middle-class family, where he attended Roman Catholic schools.\n\nHe attended San Francisco City College, dropping out in 1965 to join the US Army.\n\nRemiro served as a LRRP and served two tours in Vietnam as a member of the 101st Airborne Division\n\nHe had training as an auto mechanic. He participated in search and destroy missions in Vietnam and became addicted to drugs while there.\n\nWhen Remiro returned from service, he joined Vietnam Veterans Against the War and then the more radical Venceremos. He then became involved with the Black Cultural Association, an education program for convicts at the Vacaville psychiatric prison in California, and Peking House, a Maoist collective where he became best friends with fellow future SLA member Russ Little. He also became friendly with Willie Wolfe at this time and Angela Atwood. This was to be the beginnings of the Symbionese Liberation Army.\n\nRemiro joined the SLA and was considered a useful member due to his knowledge of weaponry from his time in Vietnam. He trained other members in target practice, as well as the use, maintenance and dismantling of weaponry.\n\nOn January 10, 1974, Remiro and Russell Little were apprehended by police, as they were driving suspiciously in a quiet neighborhood in Concord, California at 1.30am in a battered van. Little showed the officer a fake license and claimed he was looking for the \"Devoto\" home. However, Little had been staying there for several weeks with Nancy Ling Perry, who had rented the house under the assumed name. When the officer then asked the passenger to identify himself, Remiro grabbed a holstered pistol. The officer took cover behind his car. When the officer peered out from cover, Remiro fired two rounds at the policeman, who fired two shots back at him. Remiro took cover and then emerged again, firing three more rounds at the officer, who again fired twice at Remiro. Although neither Remiro or the officer were hit, Little was wounded during the shootout. Remiro fled the scene as police arrested Little.\n\nFour hours later, Remiro surrendered only a block from the SLA hideout. Officers found the Walther automatic pistol that had been used in the murder of Marcus Foster. Since Little had mentioned the name Devoto, it was presumed by the SLA that it was only a matter of time before police would discover their hideout. That evening the house was doused with gasoline and sprinkled with gunpowder. Nancy Perry was seen driving rapidly away.\n\nAs soon as Remiro and Little were booked into Concord City Jail, an extra shift of guards was called in to surround the building. No one got in or out without being thoroughly checked. The two were transferred almost immediately to Contra Costa County Jail, where armed guards on the roof were joined by extra street patrols. New and more serious charges were filed against the pair, bringing their bail to almost 750,000 dollars each. Not wanting to allow any chance for escape or for an assisted breakout, it was decided that Remiro and Little would be transferred to California's most secure penitentiary, San Quentin prison. This move was unprecedented, as suspects are presumed innocent until proven guilty, and only the guilty are housed in penitentiaries.\n\nOn Feb 17, 1974, Little and Remiro attempted to release a statement to the public with some of their grievances. This was seized by prison authorities but found its way to the media in March. Some grievances included that they were being held in isolation, \"the hole\" on Death Row, of being starved, and other claims of harassment, intimidation and violence. They claimed that this was under direction of the FBI.\n\nIn late February 1974, Little's father, O. Jack Little, made a statement to the media and to other SLA members. He offered to take Patty Hearst's place as a kidnap victim. Part of his statement read:\n\nIn February 1975, the jury sent a note to the judge that it had been unable to reach a verdict in the case. A new jury was selected.\n\nOn June 27, 1975, Little and Remiro were sentenced to life imprisonment for murder and the attempted murder of Foster's assistant, Robert Blackburn. Although there were no positive eyewitness identifications of either man at the murder scene, considerable circumstantial evidence, including possession of the murder weapon, was relied upon. The pair was also sentenced for the shooting incident that occurred on their apprehension, as well as an assault that occurred on a prison officer in January 1974.\n\nRemiro has one son, Joshua.\n\nOn February 18, 1976 Patty Hearst at her armed robbery trial testified that Little and Remiro were waiting in the car while Dr Foster was killed by other members, although Bill Harris claimed that they had not even been there. Little and Remiro also released a statement through their attorney that Hearst was \"lying\".\n\nLittle has stated: \"Who actually pulled the trigger that killed Foster was Mizmoon. Nancy [Ling Perry] was supposed to shoot Blackburn, she kind of botched that and DeFreeze ended up shooting him with a shotgun.\"\n\nIn 1988, Bill Harris stated that he maintained the innocence of Russ Little and Remiro.\n\nOn June 5, 1981, Little's conviction was overturned by the California Court of Appeal, and he was later acquitted in a retrial in Monterey County. One of the reasons given in the unanimous decision by the three judges was that Superior Court judge Elvin Sheehy issued a \"dynamite charge\" to a deadlocked jury. This charge asks holdout jurors to reevaluate their decision and urges them to reach a conclusion. In 1977, the California Supreme Court ruled that this dynamite charge prejudiced the right to a fair jury trial. One of the Justices argued that Remiro's conviction should be overturned along with Little's.\n\nNancy Ling Perry's former boss and friend, Rudy Henderson, also testified at the trial that Ling Perry had confessed to him prior to her death that she, Donald DeFreeze, Willie Wolfe and two other members who were killed in the Los Angeles shootout had shot Foster.\n\nRemiro remains in San Quentin State Prison today where he is serving a life sentence. He is the only member of the SLA still in prison, having been denied parole at least three times.\n"}
{"id": "22925872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22925872", "title": "Kula people (Asia)", "text": "Kula people (Asia)\n\nKula (; ; also spelt Gula and Kola) are Tai peoples who immigrated from Yunnan, China and the Mon and Shan States in Myanmar to Isan, Thailand during the last few decades of the 19th century. The Kula once lived mainly in Pailin Province as refugees during French Protectorate of Cambodia, where many worked as gem traders. The immigration of the Kula led to economic developments and commercialization in the region. The Kula, still a minority ethnic group, are among the wealthiest ethnic groups in modern Cambodia.\n\nIn Burmese, \"Kula\" (, often transliterated \"Kala\"), typically used to refer to Indians, was historically used to describe both Indians and Europeans. \"Kula\" is also the Thai word for \"star-shaped kite\".\n\nThe history of \"Toongsoo\" ( \"Taungthu\" in Burmese), another name for the Kula people, is unknown. Although Thai documents from the 1870s and '80s use the two words interchangeably, it is not clear if they refer to the same ethnic group. Wilson, for example, writes that \"Toongsoo\" (or \"Tongsú\") was used in the 19th century as a designation for (a) The Karen tribe in general, (b) A Thai trader tribe closely related to Shans known for dealing in elephant and horses and (c) The Shan pronunciation of the Burmese word \"taungthu\" \"hill man\", referring to the Pa'O, an ethnic group within the Karen people.\n\nReporting on the miners in the Chanthaburi and Cambodia peninsulas, Smyth said: \"The Siamese often style the gem mining Shán Tongsu, but there are very few real Tongsu among them. Europeans usually called them Burmese, but beyond the fact that they come from the Burmese Shán states the term is not applicable to more than an extremely small percentage, and the application of the name to his face would be not considered flattering by the average Shán.\"\n\nKula also refers to miners in the Chanthaburi and Pailin, Cambodia regions who are believed to be of Burmese descent. At the end of the 19th century, it was discovered that the Mon had also immigrated to the area, further muddying the definition. Cambodians sometimes refer to themselves as \"the jungle people,\" as the jungle in the region originally stretched from Dawei to Mawlamyine.\n\nThe Kula style of dress is similar to that of people in Pailin, including the traditional umbrella. Kula used to be referred to as \"Burmese Cambodian\" or \"Khmer Shan\" but are no longer called either of those.\n\nThe Kula language is an amalgamation of words from Shan and Dai, both of which were native Shan peoples. Kula has adapted to include words from other peoples in Northern Thailand and Lan Na like the Northern Thai language, especially those languages spoken in the border communities between Burma and Thailand.\n\nOther Kula who live between Pailin and Stung Treng speak Shan language rather than the Kula mixed tongue. Among them, the Lao language has become the language of business, especially to those living on the border with Laos. However, after the Khmer Rouge, the Kula language has been almost lost, with the language becoming highly Thai-influenced.\n\nKula merchants traded in Isan and along the banks of the Mekong. Their presence in Isan is recorded as early as the reign of King Rama IV. The first written record of Kula in the region comes from a dispute between a Kula merchant over the purchase of 577 cattle from the governors of Roi Et, Sowannapoom and Khon Kaen, who refused to hand over the cattle. The Kula were protected at that time by Britain, therefore Bangkok acted as mediator and returned the 2763.5 baht owed.\n\nKula merchants travelled in caravans, some of which consisted of 100 or more people who rode in ox carts and on horses and elephants. The merchants would buy and sell many types of items including elephants, ivory, horns, tusks and antlers, silk, water buffalo, firearms, and other assorted items. Smaller caravans would consist of only 5 to 50 members and would be heavily armed with knives and swords but also sacred magic charms for protection. The Kula distinguished themselves by being nomadic and staying in temples, or in the jungle, prairies and forests. Tung Kula Rong Hai, or \"The Plain of the Crying Kula\" is so named in honor of the nomadic Kula, and is a vast grassy plain, with areas os swamp as well. \n\nSparsely populated during the early 19th century, many caravans would become lost, never to find their way out. The communities within the plain erected large wooden poles and planted trees as route markers. There were five main routes through the plain: from Dong Paya Fai, Nakhon Ratchasima to Pak Priew, Saraburi; from Dong Paya Klang, Nakorn Ratchasima to Sanam Chang, Lopburi; from Thanko pass in Nakhon Ratchasima into Kabinburi, Prachinburi through the Panatnikom district in Saraburi to Phanom Sarakham District, Chachoengsao to Nakhon Nayok in Eastern Thailand; from Mottama, Mawlamyine, Myanmar to Phetchabun Province to the Raharng district in Tak Province; and from the Jorn Pass in Surin Province to Sisophon, Cambodia.\n\nAs travelling merchants, the Kula played a major role in providing communities in Isan with essential goods, skills and information. They aided the spread of skills such as ironwork and goldsmithing in rural communities and spread information from town to town. As the regional economy advanced and began to prosper, the Kula faced competition from Chinese and Indian merchants as well as individual Thai. Paved roads and railways were built, linking Bangkok and Nakhon Ratchasima, making goods more easily available to remote regions also contributed to the decline of Kula trading. When the Bowring Treaty ended, it finalized the demise of Kula merchant-caravans in Thailand. Small caravans of Kula still continued to travel to Thailand into 20th century and many Kula descendants living in Northern Thailand still practice their nomadic tradition of trading throughout Isan, though they sell pottery and artificial flowers now.\n\nKula would sometimes settle in a community once they married, while others returned to Cambodia once the trade era was over. Many Kula traditions and customs have disappeared over the generations through assimilation with local Thai and Lao communities.\n\n During the 19th century, many Kula immigrated to Pailin, Cambodia. According to R. Blandat, a group of Shan from Chanthaburi found a precious stone which they mined. They told the Kula, who, as traders, made money from the venture. Rumours of the gem attracted Chinese, Laos and Vietnamese to the area. The wealthier Kula in Bangkok and the Shan royalty also immigrated to Cambodia, due to economic reasons.\n\nBecause of the large Kula population being centred in a small area, the residents sought to set up their own state. Another wave of migrants arrived from Burma in the late 19th century and early 20th century. On the Cambodian side of the Thai-Cambodia border Lung Musu discovered, in 1890, sapphire field in Pailin. Lung returned to Yangon, Burma where he showed the sapphire to the local Shan community. The local merchants organized an expedition first to survey the land then to recruit Shan families from Laikha, Mok Mai and Meng Nai to settle the area. They constructed a Buddhist temple and a monastic order to take control of the mine. More Shan continued to flock to the area and built Wat Phnom Yat.\n\nThe Kula who lived in Pailin worked in the mines and also in the new business of heating. During French Colonial rule, a French gem merchant conducted experiments with the Pailin stones, which showed their efficacy in heat retention. The local French maintained a good relationship with the Kula, and as such many Kula traveled to France to study, returning to Cambodia afterward.\n\nDuring that time, Pailin's economy grew and the livelihood of the Kula people grew with it. In the 1960s, Pailin became a tourist destination, jolting the Kula people into modern day, forcing their culture to change. For example, Kula traditionally kept their hair long and braided, and the men wore sarongs but with increased knowledge of the outside world, many Kula cut their hair cut and started wearing trousers.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge rule struck the Kula people hard. Pailin became a Khmer Rouge stronghold for 30 years, while the Kula people were forced to become soldiers on the border of Lao. Some fled to Thailand while the rest were put to hard labor in the mines. This era is known is the time when the Kula culture was lost.\n\nMany Kula traditions have roots in Burma and the Shan culture.\n\nThe majority of traveling merchants were male and dressed differently from the locals. Most of their attire was described as similar to the clothing of Burma, Mon, Dai or Shan while some dressed like Karieng. Kula pants are mostly made from cotton and dyed in dark colors. Pants were wide legged and ankle or knee-length, much like Chinese shorts, and were fastened with drawstrings. Men would also wear sarongs, checkered and in dark colors. \n\n\"Sue Taek Bung\" shirts are collared shirts, made from a single piece of cloth buttoned in the front. Most shirts were black, dark blue and white in color. The longyi or sarong, is an often sewn in a cylindrical shape, worn from the waist to the feet. It is secured with a knot. It is made from cotton or, occasionally, silk. Men almost always wear a white eingyi shirt with a Mandarin collar, sometimes with a taikpon jacket. Taikpon are usually white, grey, black or terracotta. Men also wear a gaung baung turban and velvet slippers. The Kula hairstyle includes long hair tied on top of the head under the turban.\n\nWomen wear a calf-length longyi in solid colors, flower prints or patterns. They are often red-based with stripes or small checks, similar to Mon styles. Royal women wore a long dress called a thin-dai, which was decorated with many threads. Blouses were highly ornamented with silver and were colorful. Women tie a shawl over their shoulders and wear hair bands with flowers in them. Like the men, women carry umbrellas made from bamboo and wear slippers called hnyat-phanat made of velvet or leather. Women pierced their ears and wore kajorn, or earrings, made from silver. Kajorn were worn in pairs, while regular earrings were worn only on the left earlobe. All of these clothes were exchanged for bright colored clothing during celebrations. The clothing is very similar to what is worn by the Shan in Burma.\n\nIn Pailin, there are a few different kinds of foods. Kula food is distinct from Burmese cuisine. The most popular Burmese style dish is Mee Kola (មីកុឡា) which is a vegetarian noodle dish made from thin rice stick noodles, steamed and cooked with soy sauce and garlic, sometimes mixed with meat and lobster. Other dishes include tom yum from Thai cuisine and Mon banana pudding from Myanmar. These have all spread to other parts of Thailand and Cambodia, but normally in versions which are flavored more sweetly than the Pailin version, especially in Phnom Penh.\n\nMoreover, Kula merchants ate plain rice and would always carry kitchenware and utensils made from brass along with them on their travels. They mostly made and prepared their own meals and would eat among themselves because they had strict rules regarding proper food. Kula do not eat meat from cows, ox or water buffalo. Their restraint from these meat products was based upon the fact that the animal provided labor and were also the main part of their trade. They would only make meals from animals who were still fresh and died of known causes. \n\nThey would also not eat frogs or fish that were found dead rather than killed for their meat. Vegetables were common in their diet, and were consumed in many varieties. The Kula were experts plant lore from their reliance on the natural resources that were available during their travels. Tea was often consumed in place of water and was a regular staple at their homes and during their travel. Alcohol consumption was forbidden because Kula merchants practiced magic to protect them on their journeys and alcohol was believed to prevent this.\n\nThe houses in Pailin are built from wood panels, 8 cm to 1 m wide, and includes a wide door and, in the middle of house, there are shrines to Gautama Buddha. The Kula often plant roses in front of their homes.\n\n"}
{"id": "7710343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7710343", "title": "Land banking", "text": "Land banking\n\nLand banking is the practice of aggregating parcels of land for future sale or development.\n\nWhile in many countries \"land banking\" may refer to various private real-estate investment schemes, in the United States it refers to the establishment of quasi-governmental county or municipal authorities purposed with managing an inventory of surplus land.\n\nLand banks are quasi-governmental entities created by counties or municipalities to effectively manage and repurpose an inventory of underused, abandoned, or foreclosed property. They are often chartered to have powers that enable them to accomplish these goals in ways that existing government agencies can not. While the land bank \"model\" has gained broad support and has been implemented in a number of cities, they are implemented differently so as to best address both municipal needs and the state and local legal context in which they were created.\n\nThe period of deindustrialization in the United States coupled with increased suburbanization in the middle of the 20th century left many American cities with large amounts of vacant & blighted industrial, residential, and commercial property. Beginning in the early 1970s municipalities began to seek solutions to manage decline or spur revitalization in once prosperous city neighborhoods. The first land bank was created in St. Louis in 1971. While additional municipalities continued to adopt them at a trickle it wasn’t until the mid 2000s that land banks became viewed as a tested, reliable, and accepted model and experienced widespread implementation – particularly after the success of the Genesee County Land Bank. In 2009 the Department of Housing and Urban Development issued a report embracing land banks as a best practices model for municipalities dealing with the effects of the real estate market collapse and the ensuing foreclosure crisis.\n\nLand banking in the UK was previously the preserve of the landed gentry or real estate developers. Many reputable listed commercial building companies engage successfully in land banking for future building projects. Companies also purchase land sites and easily divide them into smaller plots, then offer these plots for sale to individual investors. This relatively new practice in the UK does not fall under the control of the Financial Services Authority. Many people are wary of this form of investment as many plot based land banking companies have failed or been closed down. There are currently no audited successes recorded for UK plot based land banking despite the UK having gone through a major property boom in the period 2002 – Jul 2007.\n\nA landbanking scheme that is a Collective investment scheme is a \"regulated activity\" for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and, according to section 19(1), may only be operated in the UK by a person who is either authorised or exempt. Section 26 provides that an agreement made by a person in contravention of this is unenforceable and any sums paid to him may be recovered together with compensation for any loss suffered. After recent FSA enforcement of this regulation many companies selling UK land plots have moved outside of the European Union and only offer land plots to non UK residents who are not protected by FSA regulations.\n\nSince the changes in the land registration act, a number of companies offering UK land plots as an investment have been formed. Typically this land is greenbelt, nature conservation, flood plain, agricultural or protected land unsuitable for development. There are no recorded successful planning permission applications for plots sold under such collective investment schemes.\n\nThere have been considerable losses recorded by investors in UK land plot investment schemes. A large number of British companies offering UK land plots have failed or been shut down by the FSA or other authorities.\nSome companies have now moved offshore after FSA investigation. Some companies now offer UK land plots from locations such as Dubai or Singapore where the local authorities do not regulate such activities, or are not aware of the high risk nature of the investment. In June 2010 the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) issued a warning on land banking plots schemes warning they may be a scam with specific focus on companies offering land from the UK and Canada.\n\nA company representative may contact an individual by telephone, in temporary shopping center booths, or at property shows and offer a strategic land investment in the UK. Very often UK government or industry statistics, the proximity of the land to built up areas, or the recent history of UK house prices are quoted as a demonstration of why the land plot is a great investment. Verbal communication will often indicate that the land is fast tracked for building approval and has strong potential as building land. When pricing the land reference is typically made to approved building land prices at the market peak. Very often the land banking company will present detailed plans showing a housing development on the site. These plans are often referred to as \"pre-approved\", \"concept\" or \"predevelopment\". The sales person will focus on the potential future value of the land against the current selling price.\n\nNo reference is ever made to the value of green belt or agricultural land, or the issues involved with the long term maintenance, and collectively selling tiny plots of land. The sales price is typically uplifted 10–100 times over the current value of the land. Plans shown have no validity in UK planning law and cannot be considered as any indication of progress in the planning process. No written contractual promise is ever given for planning permission despite typically extreme optimism by the sales person. The sales person will typically never mention that the land is protected, or greenbelt land and cannot be developed under current planning regulations. There is typically no possibility of planning permission in any reasonable timeframe.\n\nThe investor may end up paying a considerable amount of money for a small area of low value land which has a very high risk of standing undeveloped. Once the general public becomes aware of the lack of viability of the proposed plot investment scheme, the re-sale value of the individual plots collapses. This is typically followed by the land plot company liquidating completely, or relocating to another legal jurisdiction.\n\nFor customers that show a willingness to purchase such schemes there may also be attempts to sell additional plot based land banking products at alternate locations, or other high yield investment programmes. Customers may also be added to suckers lists which are then sold to other companies offering similar schemes. When the land banking plot company fails plot investors may also be offered investment recovery or planning services for a fee. Such services typically are fraudulent or fail and lead to a further loss of money for the investor.\n\nA \"You and Yours\" documentary, first aired on BBC Radio 4 in December 2006, criticized the services offered by many land banking companies in the United Kingdom, suggesting that they were scamming their customers. A land banking scam is based on the very low chance of any of the plots receiving planning permission and the very high profit margins taken on the land plots, with the seller using misleading marketing tactics to convince the buyers that they are making a sound investment.\n\nA key strategy used for selling United Kingdom land plots is to imply that because a customer owns the land plot, they cannot lose their money. The land banking company typically suggests dramatic annual increases in the value of the land plots, and a very optimistic time frame for successful planning applications. These are never contractually committed. Typically the land banking company sells a land plot at a premium of 15 to 100 times the current market value of undeveloped land. A purchaser might pay £15,000 for a land plot that only has a current market value of £500. On this basis, most of the investment is not in land, and the small percentage annual increases in the value of the land plot are meaningless. The actual investment is in a proposed service to deliver valuable approved building land in the future. If that service is never delivered or is not successful, the remaining land asset is normally worthless. Should the selling company fail or disappear, the plot owner cannot economically sell the plot, as the administrative effort and cost of sale typically exceeds the value of the land plot.\n\nMany land banking companies target victims outside of the United Kingdom, particularly Canada, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei and Malaysia. Residents of these countries may be naive of the UK property market and local planning regulations such as green belt zoning.\n\nIn 2008, the land banking firm UKLI was placed into administration due to insolvency, despite having taken £69 million from 4,500 people for land plots. Land International was closed down in 2008 after losing investors £10 million, and the same Land International plots were later offered for sale in Asia. In 2010, Land International (Far East) failed, causing investors to lose S$6 million (£2.5M). MP David Heath requested a debate in the House of Commons following the offering of 209 plots in the village of Dean, saying that \"while land banking may not be illegal it is undoubtedly a scam\".\n\nThe UK Land Registry issued a press release on January 15, 2009 advising consumers that the Land Registry has published a guide warning against land banking investment schemes. Land Registry Head of Corporate Legal Services Mike Westcott Rudd said that the public were being \"misled about the prospects of obtaining planning permission\", with well-known banks and developers being falsely cited as partners in the project, and that in some cases forged Land Registry paperwork was being presented to suggest that planning approval existed where it did not.\n\nIn 2011 New York State passed a land bank statute authorizing the establishment of nonprofits in each county to take title to vacant abandoned homes so they can be rehabilitated, sold or demolished in an orderly fashion. Many counties upstate including Erie County, Onondaga County, Schenectady County and Albany County have abandoned homes as people moved to the suburbs. Some properties have been abandoned due to back taxes and the city has taken title. \n\nThe recent robo-signing settlement gave Attorney General Eric Schneiderman the wherewithal to fund land banks in Schenectady and Albany. \n\nThe state of Michigan also has a land bank program . Ohio passed land bank legislation in 2009.\n\nLand banking as an investment is nothing new to America. Several self-made billionaires started by purchasing large tracts in California where the development opportunities had not yet arisen. People such as Bob Hope and Donald Trump have reaped tremendous reward from buying large areas and holding the property until the market commanded a considerable return when sold. There have however, also been many land scams in the US, such as the large areas of Florida swampland which were sold as being suitable for real estate.\n\nFlorida land scams have history as far back as the 1920s Florida Land Rush. Many Florida Counties have traces of these land scams today. Polk County Florida in particular has been devastated with land banking scams. Polk County, being the land that lies between the city of Tampa, in Hillsborough County Florida and the city of Orlando, in Orange County Florida has been a hot bed for speculative land development. North Polk County falls within the lower Green Swamp. The State of Florida has declared the Green Swamp \"land of critical state concern\". During the 1970s through the late 1980s the Green Swamp was sold as being suitable for real estate development. The development of Disney World and the attraction it received was the sales tool to persuade individuals to buy one acre lots at high speculative prices. These prices ranged from $2,000 to as high as $15,000 per acre. The Florida land banking scams continue today and are mostly operated outside of the United States. Unwary foreign customers are sold Florida land from outside the U.S. borders through contracts for deed arrangements.\n\nIn December 2008, at the depths of the Global Financial Crisis, the Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) relaxed laws regarding foreign investment in Australian real estate. Under previous legislation temporary residents were only allowed to purchase a property for Principal Place of Residence purposes valued at up to $300,000. Under new laws active since February 2009, this monetary limit has been removed.\n\nIn March 2010, the Reserve Bank of Australia governor announced that it is monitoring the effect of the rule change on the housing market.\n\nOn April 24, 2010, Assistant Treasurer Senator Nick Sherry announced the tightening of foreign investment laws as a result of a public backlash to the changes made a year earlier. Whilst they are still entitled to purchase a property of any value, temporary Residents must now sell their residence upon leaving the country, and must report all purchases to the Foreign Investment Review Board, effectively eliminating this land banking loophole. However, foreign companies are allowed to purchase property to house local staff.\n\nIt is possible for foreign individuals to create a registered company for the sole purpose of purchasing property in Australia and actively bypass the loophole fix.\n\nAs of April 20, 2010, the COAG has agreed the Housing Supply and Affordability Reform Working Party will extend the land audit work to examine ‘underused examine private holdings of large parcels of land by mid-2010.\n\nWhile most land banking is based on the prospect of urban areas expanding at the expense of rural areas, in various parts of the world agricultural land is expanding at the expense of virgin land. The purchase of virgin land that has been identified as suitable for agriculture because of its climate, topography and soil properties, where the buyer has no intention to work the land himself or lease it out, would be agricultural land banking.\n\nSuch lands are often rather far away from existing infrastructure when purchased by the land banking investor, therefore prices being low. The investor anticipates that, because of the area's natural productive potential, an agricultural infrastructure (sufficient roads, specialised contractors, grain storages) will develop, with more land put under cultivation and land values multiplying.\n\nAgricultural land banking is found where large tracts of fertile virgin land still exist, where valuations are low and where legislation allows large land holdings (free hold) by domestic and foreign investors.\nTypical countries for such investments during recent years have been Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay,\nParaguay where land prices appreciated accordingly.\n\nThough the perception that the world's fertile land is a limited and valuable asset is by no means new, it received renewed public and media attention with the global food crisis, when phrases like \"peak wheat\" or \"peak soil\"\nwere coined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46839618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46839618", "title": "Landsforbundet for Kvinders Valgret", "text": "Landsforbundet for Kvinders Valgret\n\nLandsforbundet for Kvinders Valgret or LKV (National Association for Women's Suffrage), was a Danish association for women's suffrage, active from 1907 until 1915. \n\nThe association originated from the local women's association \"Politisk Kvindeforening\". In 1906, \"Københavns Kvindevalgretsforening\" was founded, and in 1907, the name was changed to Landsforbundet for Kvinders Valgret. It was founded by Elna Munch, Johanne Rambusch and Marie Hjelmer. From the start, Julie Arenholt was one of the most influential members. The organisation was founded in response to the women's suffrage work of Dansk Kvindesamfund, which was regarded too careful by the founders of the LKV. The LKV became a national wide organisation which united all the local branches of women suffrage organisations in Denmark and founded new ones. The organisation was dissolved when the goal was met in 1915. \n\n"}
{"id": "101459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101459", "title": "Lebu people", "text": "Lebu people\n\nThe Lebu (Lebou, \"Lébou\") are an ethnic group of Senegal, West Africa, living on the peninsula of Cap-Vert. The Lebu are primarily a fishing community, but they have a substantial business in construction supplies. They speak Lebu Wolof, which is closely related to Wolof proper but is not intelligible with it. Their political and spiritual capital is at Layene, situated in the Yoff neighborhood of northern Dakar. They have a religious sect and theocracy, the Layene, headquartered there.\n\nThe traditional date of the founding of Yoff is 1430. Although they were conquered by the Kingdoms of Jolof (Diolof) and Cayor, and later the French in the 19th century, and were incorporated into modern Senegal, since 1815 they have had a special legal autonomy as a special kind of \"theocratic republic\".\n\nLebu society emphasizes piety and respect for elders. Lebu families include not only living people but also associated ancestral spirits. The Lebu are noted for their public exorcism dances and rituals, often attended by tourists.\n\nIn addition to Yoff, other Lebu centres are nearby Ouakam, Cambérène and Ngor.\n\n"}
{"id": "36835481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36835481", "title": "List of journalists killed during the Syrian Civil War", "text": "List of journalists killed during the Syrian Civil War\n\nThis list of journalists killed during the Syrian Civil War includes the foreign war correspondents, Syrian professional journalists (including those who work for pro-government media outlets), and Syrian citizen journalists (including those who work for opposition forces) killed since the beginning of the civil war in 2011 and who have died as a result of their reporting. Also included in a separate form are those journalists whose whereabouts are unknown or whose disappearance is a result of their reporting and the period of their disappearance, including those cases where it is unknown as to whether or not they are casualties.\n\nThe Doha Centre for Media Freedom has documented 110 professional or citizen journalists who have died during the Syrian civil war. The Syrian Journalists' Association has documented 153 journalists killed since the uprising and throughout the civil war, and 15 in March 2013. As of March 2013, the United Nations estimated that 70,000 people have been killed during the Syrian civil war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12709340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12709340", "title": "Martin Rhonheimer", "text": "Martin Rhonheimer\n\nMartin Rhonheimer (born 1950 in Zurich, Switzerland) is a Swiss political philosophy professor and priest of the Catholic personal prelature Opus Dei. he is teaching professor at the Opus Dei-affiliated Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome.\n\nRhonheimer was born 1950 in Zurich, Switzerland into a Swiss Jewish family. He studied philosophy, history, political science and theology in Zurich and Rome.\n\nIn 1974, he joined the personal prelature Opus Dei as a numerary member.\nIn 1983, he was ordained a priest.\n\nRhonheimer´s regular editorials have been published by the German FAZ and Neue Zürcher Zeitung.\n\nIn 2014, Rhonheimer wrote in the Neue Zürcher Zeitung, that the Islamic State was no heresy, but \"a recurring pattern in the history of violent expansion. The model is Muhammad himself\", and that Islamic State was legitimized in the Koran and the Sharia, that \"no arguments within Muslim theology that can be used to condemn Islamic State's behavior as un-Islamic\" can be found.\n\nRhonheimer claimed, that Islam is more than a religion, but a cult with political and social rules, uniting religion and political and social order in one, and that \"it has always been violent.\" He wrote that \"Islam’s central problem is the warlike, expansionist Islam from Medina, the legitimacy of killing for Allah's honor and a violent Muhammad.\"\n\nIn 2014, Rhonheimer wrote that a foundational element of Christianity was the separation of church and politics, which could be understood as synonymous to separation of church and state.\n\nIn 2017, Rhonheimer criticized Pope Francis' view that \"this economy kills\". He supports neoliberal views of enterpreneurship, for which free market capitalism is \"necessary\". He says that \"seeking profits is good per se and in a free and lawfully ordered market system it creates wellbeing for everyone\". He criticizes Catholic social teachings because there were \"no exact formulations in the New Testament\" and they \"had always been a product of their time\".\n\"Inzwischen haben wir ein Sozialstaatskirchensystem bekommen, weil sich die Kirche in die Strukturen des umverteilenden Steuer- und Sozialstaates derart eingebunden hat, dass sie nicht mehr frei ist, ein System in Frage zu stellen, das zum Beispiel dem Subsidiaritätsprinzip eklatant widerspricht und ökonomisch falsche Anreize setzt.\" [\"\"In the meantime, we have gotten a welfare-state church-system, because the church has become so integrated into the structures of the redistributive tax and welfare state that it is no longer free to question a system that, for example, blatantly contradicts the principle of subsidiarity and provides economically false incentives\".\"]\n\nRhonheimer has published a dozen books on topics concerning the philosophy of moral action, virtue, natural law, Aquinas, Aristotle, the ethics of sexuality and bioethics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15595729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15595729", "title": "Medical sociologist", "text": "Medical sociologist\n\nMedical Sociologist a practitioner of medical sociology. Medical sociologists work within different sociological traditions, including symbolic interactionist, social constructionist traditions, and use a variety of qualitative and quantitative sociological methods. In the UK, major centres for medical sociology include the Universities of Manchester, Glasgow, and Nottingham.\n"}
{"id": "21371607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21371607", "title": "Mungaka", "text": "Mungaka\n\nThe Mungaka language is spoken by the people of Bali Nyonga. Bali Nyonga is located grasslands of Cameroon in the Northwest Province. They are the descendants of the Bali Chambas in Northern Nigeria.\n\nThe Chamba Migration and the Origin of Bali Nyonga\n"}
{"id": "3215947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3215947", "title": "Muslim Rajputs", "text": "Muslim Rajputs\n\nMuslim Rajputs or Musulman Rajputs, are patrilineal descendants of Rajputs of Northern regions of the Indian Subcontinent who are followers of Islam. Today, Muslim Rajputs can be found in Northern India, Kashmir, and in the Pakistani provinces of Punjab and Sindh. They are further divided into different clans.\n\nThe term \"Rajput\" is traditionally applied to the original Suryavanshi, Chandravanshi and Agnivanshi clans, who claimed to be Kshatriya in the Hindu varna system.\n\nThere are recorded instances of recent conversions of Rajputs to Islam in Western Uttar Pradesh, Khurja tahsil of Bulanshahr.\n\nDespite the difference in faith, where the question has arisen of common Rajput honour, there have been instances where both Muslim and Hindu Rajputs have united together against threats from external ethnic groups.\n\nThe Ismaili Rajputs replaced the Sunni Arab in Punjab in the 9th century. The dynasty lasted until the mid-11th century and had Multan as its capital. The Katara's are one the most persecuted people in Punjab especially during the Ghazni rule, after which they went into seclusion for self-preservation. They had converted to Ismaili Islam under the Da'i Halam b. Shayban, sent by Fatmid Caliph. In their rule Multan saw a period of peace, expansion of commerce and trade, and flourishing local culture.\n\nThe Rajput Soomra dynasty replaced the Arab Habbari dynasty in the 10th century. The dynasty lasted until the mid-13th century. The Soomras are one the longest running dynasties in the history of Sindh, lasting 325 years. They had converted to Islam under the Arab rule. During their reign, Sindh saw a period of relative peace, expansion of commerce and trade, and flourishing local culture.\n\nThe Samma era saw the rise of Thatta as an important commercial and cultural centre. At the time the Portuguese occupation of the trading centre of Hormuz in 1514 CE, trade from the Sindh accounted for nearly 10% of their customs revenue, and they described Thatta as one of the richest cities in the world. Thatta's prosperity was based partly on its own high-quality cotton and silk textile industry, partly on export of goods from further inland in the Punjab and northern India.\n\nThe Samma period contributed significantly to the evolution of the Indo-Islamic architectural style. Thatta is famous for its necropolis, which covers 10 square km on the Makli Hill.\n\nThe Gujarat Sultanate was an independent Rajput kingdom established in the early 15th century by the Muzaffarid dynasty in Gujarat. Under the dynasty, trade, culture, and Indo-Islamic architecture flourished. The city of Ahmedabad was founded by the dynasty.\n\n\nRajputs who accepted Islam often retain common social practices (such as purdah [seclusion of women], which is generally followed by Hindu, Sikh and Muslim Rajputs).\n\n"}
{"id": "2457603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457603", "title": "Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen", "text": "Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen\n\nThe Mutawakkilite Kingdom ( '), also known as the Kingdom of Yemen or, retrospectively, as North Yemen, was a state that existed between 1918 and 1962 in the northern part of what is now Yemen. Its capital was Sana'a until 1948, then Taiz. From 1962 to 1970, it maintained control over portions of Yemen until finally defeated in the North Yemen Civil War. Yemen was admitted to the United Nations on 30 September 1947.\n\nReligious leaders of the Zaydi expelled forces of the Ottoman Empire from what is now northern Yemen by the middle of the 17th century but, within a century, the unity of Yemen was fractured due to the difficulty of governing Yemen's mountainous terrain. In 1849, the Ottoman Empire occupied the coastal Tihamah region to put pressure on the Zaiddiyah imam to sign a treaty recognizing Ottoman suzerainty and allowing for a small Ottoman force to be stationed in Sana'a. However, the Ottomans were slow to gain control over Yemen and never managed to eliminate all resistance from local Zaydis. In 1913, shortly before World War I, the Ottoman Empire was forced to cede some power formally to highland Zaydis.\nOn 30 October 1918, following the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, Imam Yahya Muhammad of the al-Qasimi dynasty declared northern Yemen an independent sovereign state. In 1926, Yahya proclaimed the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen, becoming both a temporal king as well as a (Zaydi) spiritual leader, and won international recognition for his new state, such as with the Kingdom of Italy, entering into the Italo-Yemeni Treaty in 1926.\n\nIn the 1920s, Yahya had expanded his power to the north into Tihamah and 'Asir, but he collided with the rising influence of the Saudi king of Nejd and Hejaz, Abdul Aziz ibn Sa'ud. In the early 1930s, Saudi forces retook much of these gains before withdrawing from some of the area, including the southern Tihamah city of Al Hudaydah. The present-day boundary with Saudi Arabia was established by the 20 May 1934 Treaty of Taif, following the Saudi-Yemeni War in 1934. Yahya's non-recognition of his kingdom's southern boundary with the British Aden Protectorate (later the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) that had been negotiated by his Ottoman predecessors resulted in occasional clashes with the British.\n\nIn 1932, the governments of Yemen and the Kingdom of Iraq signed a treaty which led to the training of Yemeni Army officers in Iraq. Later, several of them would play a key role in the 1962 coup d'état in North Yemen.\n\nThe Kingdom of Yemen became a founding member of the Arab League in 1945 and joined the United Nations on 30 September 1947. It committed a small expeditionary force to the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.\n\nImam Yahya was assassinated in an unsuccessful coup d'état in 1948, but was eventually succeeded by a firm heir - Yahya's son, Imam Ahmad bin Yahya, who regained power several months later. His reign was marked by growing development, openness and renewed friction with the United Kingdom over the British presence in the south that stood in the way of his aspirations for the creation of Greater Yemen. He was slightly more forward-thinking than his father, and was more open to foreign contacts. Nonetheless, his regime, like his father's, was autocratic and semi-medieval in character; even the most mundane measures required his personal approval.\n\nIn March 1955, a coup by a group of officers and two of Ahmad's brothers briefly deposed the king but was quickly suppressed. Ahmad faced growing pressures, supported by the Arab nationalism objectives of President of Egypt, Gamal Abdel Nasser and, in April 1956, he signed a mutual defense pact with Egypt. In 1958, Yemen joined the United Arab Republic (a federation of Egypt and Syria) in a confederation known as the United Arab States, but this confederation was dissolved soon after Syria withdrew from the United Arab Republic and the United Arab States in September 1961, and relations between Egypt and Yemen subsequently deteriorated.\n\nImam Ahmad died in September 1962, and was succeeded by his son, the Crown Prince Muhammad al-Badr, whose reign was brief. Egyptian-trained military officers inspired by Nasser and led by the commander of the royal guard, Abdullah as-Sallal, deposed him the same year of his coronation, took control of Sana'a, and created the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR). This fighting sparked the North Yemen Civil War, and created a new front in the Arab Cold War, in which Egypt assisted the YAR with troops and supplies to combat forces loyal to the imamate, while the monarchies of Saudi Arabia and Jordan supported Badr's royalist forces opposing the newly formed republic. Conflict continued periodically until 1967 when Egyptian troops were withdrawn. By 1968, following a final royalist siege of Sana'a, most of the opposing leaders reached a reconciliation, and Saudi Arabia recognized the republic in 1970.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30873778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873778", "title": "Nogais", "text": "Nogais\n\nThe Nogais are a Turkic ethnic group who live in the Russian North Caucasus region. Most are found in northern Dagestan and Stavropol Krai, as well as in Karachay-Cherkessia and Astrakhan Oblast; some also live in Chechnya. They speak the Nogai language and are descendants of various Mongolic and Turkic tribes who formed the Nogai Horde. There are two main groups of Nogais:\n\nIn the 1990s, 65,000 were still living in the Northern Caucasus, divided into Aq (White) Nogai and Qara (Black) Nogai tribal confederations. Nogais live in the territories of Dagestan, Chechnya, Stavropol district and Astrakhan Oblast. From 1928 there was a Nogaysky District, Republic of Dagestan and from 2007 a Nogaysky District, Karachay-Cherkess Republic.\n\nA few thousand Nogais live in Dobruja (today in Romania), in the town of Mihail Kogălniceanu (Karamurat) and villages of Lumina (Kocali), Valea Dacilor (Hendekkarakuyusu), Cobadin (Kubadin).\n\nAn estimated 90,000 Nogais live in Turkey today, mainly settled in Ceyhan/Adana, Ankara and Eskisehir provinces. The Nogai language is still spoken in some of the villages of Central Anatolia - mainly around the Salt Lake, Eskişehir and Ceyhan. To this day, Nogais in Turkey have maintained their cuisine: \"Üken börek, kasık börek, tabak börek, şır börek, köbete\" and \"Nogay şay\" (Nogai tea - a drink prepared by boiling milk and tea together with butter, salt and pepper).\n\nThe \"Junior Juz\", or the \"Lesser Horde\" of the Kazakhs, occupied the lands of the former Nogai Khanate in Western Kazakhstan. A part of Nogais joined Kazakhs in 17-18th centuries and formed separate clan or tribe called as Kazakh-Nogais. Their estimated number is about 50,000.\n\nFrom the sixteenth century until their deportation in the mid-nineteenth century the Nogais living along the Black Sea northern coast were divided into the following sub-groups (west to east):\n\nThe name \"Nogai\" derives from Nogai Khan (died 1299/1300, great-great-grandson of Genghis Khan), a general of the Golden Horde (also called the Kipchak Khanate).\nThe Mongol tribe called the Manghits (Manghut) constituted a core of the Nogai Horde. The Nogai Horde supported the Astrakhan Khanate, and after the conquest of Astrakhan in 1556 by Russians, they transferred their allegiance to the Crimean Khanate. The Nogais protected the northern borders of the Crimean khanate, and through organized raids to the Wild Fields inhibited Slavic settlement. Many Nogais migrated to the Crimean peninsula to serve as the Crimean khans' cavalry. Settling there, they contributed to the formation of the Crimean Tatars. They raised various herds and migrated seasonally in search of better pastures for their animals. Nogais were proud of their nomadic traditions and independence, which they considered superior to settled agricultural life.\n\nThe recorded history of the Nogais first commenced when representatives of the Ottoman Empire reached the Terek–Kuma Lowland, where the Nogais were living as rogue clans and herders. There were two main chiefs: Yusuf Mirza and (Bey of the Nogai Horde from 1555 to 1563). Yusuf Mirza supported joining the Ottomans. However, his brother Ismail Mirza, who was allied with the Russians, ambushed Yusuf and declared his chiefdom under Russian rule. After that, the supporters of Yusuf Mirza migrated to Crimea and Yedisan, joining the Crimean Khanate. Supporters of Yusuf took the name \"Qara\", later named by Crimeans as \"Kichi\" (Small - founded in 1557 by ). Those who remained in present-day West Kazakhstan and the North Caucasus (the ) took the name \"Uly\" (Strong).\n\nAbout 500,000 Nogais migrated to present-day Turkey around the 16th century, after the fall of the Nogai Horde. They settled in the following cities: Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Kırşehir, Eskişehir, Adana, Kahramanmaraş, Afyon, Bursa. These Nogais do not speak the Nogai language anymore and some of them are not aware of their ancestry; however their villages do have Nogai customs.\n\nAt the beginning of the 17th century, the ancestors of the Kalmyks, the Oirats, migrated from the steppes of southern Siberia on the banks of the Irtysh River to the Lower Volga region. Various theories attempt to explain this move, but the generally accepted view is that the Kalmyks sought abundant pastures for their herds. They reached the Volga about 1630. That land, however, was not uncontested pasture, but rather the homeland of the Nogai Horde. The Kalmyks expelled the Nogais, who fled to the Northern Caucasian Plains and to the Crimean Khanate, areas under the control of the Ottoman Empire. Some Nogai groups sought the protection of the Russian garrison at Astrakhan. The remaining nomadic Turkic tribes became vassals of the Kalmyk khan.\n\nAfter the Russian annexation of Crimea in 1783, Slavic settlers occupied the Nogai pastoral land, since the Nogais did not have permanent residence. In the 1770s and 1780s Catherine the Great resettled approximately 120,000 Nogais from Bessarabia and areas northeast of the Sea of Azov to the Kuban and the Caucasus. In 1790, during the Russo-Turkish war, Prince Grigory Potemkin ordered the resettlement of some Nogai families from the Caucasus (where, he feared, they might defect to the Ottomans) to the north shore of the Sea of Azov. Through the 1792 Treaty of Jassy (Iaşi) the Russian frontier was extended to the Dniester River and the Russian takeover of Yedisan was complete. The 1812 Treaty of Bucharest transferred Budjak to Russian control.\n\nAfter confiscating the land previously belonged to Nogais, the Russian government forced Nogais to settle through various methods, such as burning their tents and limiting their freedom of movement. Russian general Alexander Suvorov slaughtered thousands of rebellious Kuban Nogais in 1783. Several Nogai tribes took refuge among the Circassians in this period. Several other Nogai clans began to migrate to the Ottoman Empire in great numbers. The Nogais followed two routes. An estimated 7,000 Nogais of the Bucak and Cedsan Hordes settled in Dobruja before 1860. Most of these Nogais later migrated to Anatolia. However, the great exodus of the Nogais took place in 1860. Many clans from Camboyluk and Kuban Hordes moved westwards to southern Ukraine, and wintered with their co-ethnics there in 1859. They emigrated either through the ports of Feodosia or Kerch or crossing via the Budjak steppes to Dobruja. 50,000 of the roughly 70,000 Nogais of the Kuban and adjacent Stavropol region left Russia for the Ottoman Empire during this period. They induced the Nogais of Crimea (who lived in the districts of Yevpatoria, Perekop and in the north of Simferopol) to emigrate too. 300,000 Crimean Tatars (which included the Nogais) left Crimea in the year 1860. Similarly, 50,000 Nogais disappeared from southern Ukraine by 1861. Other Nogai clans emigrated directly from the Caucasus to Anatolia, together with the Circassians. Nogais lived alongside German Mennonites in the Molochna region of southern Ukraine from 1803, when the Mennonites first arrived there, until 1860, when the Nogais were deported.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43742768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43742768", "title": "North Korea's illicit activities", "text": "North Korea's illicit activities\n\nThe alleged illicit activities of the North Korean state include manufacture and sale of illegal drugs, the manufacture and sale of counterfeit goods, human trafficking, arms trafficking, wildlife trafficking, counterfeiting currency (especially the United States dollar and Chinese yuan), terrorism, and other areas. It is alleged many of these activities are undertaken at the direction and under the control of, the North Korean government and the ruling Workers' Party of Korea, with their proceeds going towards advancing the country's nuclear and conventional arms production, funding the lifestyles of the country's elite, and propping up the North Korean economy.\n\nUnlike criminal syndicates, the extensive nature of these illegal endeavors, and the claim that they are directed and sanctioned by the highest levels of government, has led to the nature of the North Korean state being defined as a form of \"criminal sovereignty\" by foreign policy experts such as Paul Rexton Kan and Bruce Bechtol.\n\nHowever, there are questions remaining about the level of government involvement in each of the criminal enterprises. Many commentators agree that the North Korean state has been behind counterfeiting currency, human trafficking, the arms trade, etc., but the level to which it has been involved in the drug trade after the collapse of the Public Distribution System in the 1990s is not clear as semi-private and private black markets have arisen since then and some high-ranking officials may only be engaged in illicit trade for personal benefit.\n\nThe British academic, Hazel Smith, has argued that the allegations have a weak foundation, being largely based on the claims of a few US officials and North Korean defectors. She has pointed out that there have been very few criminal convictions. She has queried the assumption that all the activities are directed by North Korea's government.\n\nAccording to North Korea scholar Andrei Lankov, the country's illicit activities never developed into lucrative hard currency earners. Instead, these activities exposed the country to international condemnation in exchange for marginal gain. Lankov suggests that smuggling was never intended to earn currency for the regime, but was simply a means of survival for diplomats whose funding was cut.\n\nIt is alleged that North Korea's illegal drug trade dates back to the 1970s and includes the manufacturing, selling, and trafficking of illicit drugs, as well as counterfeit otherwise legal pharmaceuticals. Production began in the mountainous Hamkyung and Yangkang Provinces, particularly in the village of Yonsah, where Kim Il-sung sanctioned the creation of an opium farm.\n\nTo provide a cover of legitimacy, the North Korean government uses front companies, like the Ryugyong Corporation under the control of the Korean Workers Party's Foreign Relations Department, to conduct clandestine activities. The company also holds large tracts of land within the country for the sole purpose of growing opium and each year the company sent tens of thousands of dollars in hard currency to Kim Jong-il for his use. Unlike most companies, Ryugyong Corporation has no import or export quota restrictions.\n\nAccording to defector Yoon Yong Sol, during the famine \"[t]here were some complaints that during the famine we should be growing grain, not poppies, but the instruction from the central government was that if we grow poppies we can sell the product for 10 times as much to buy grain. ... The only way to earn hard currency is by drugs.\"\n\nReports of methamphetamine (known as \"ice drug\" in North Korea) use in the country surfaced in the late 1990s. According to Isaac Stone Fish writing in \"Foreign Policy\", the production of methamphetamine in North Korea is done by chemists and other underemployed scientists. Methamphetamine is given as a medication within North Korea, which has helped to fuel its spread. As the production and sale of opium declined in the mid-2000s, methamphetamine became more pervasive. To bring in much-needed cash, the international methamphetamine trade began, spreading first to China, and with the drug being made in state-run laboratories. However, Isaac Stone Fish admitted with regard to his report: \"I have no idea what is actually happening inside North Korea\".\n\nChina officially admitted to the drug problem stemming from North Korea in 2004, with Jilin Province being the most important transhipment point from North Korea. The production, storage, financing, and sale of the North Korea's methamphetamine trade reaches multiple countries from the Philippines, the United States, Hong Kong, Thailand, western Africa and others. In 2010, five foreign nationals were prosecuted as part of a conspiracy involving North Korea to smuggle 40 pounds of methamphetamine into the United States and to sell it for $30,000 a pound.\n\nIn 2001, income from illegal drugs amounted to between $500 million and $1 billion. In a 2013 \"Washington Post\" article, annual revenues from methamphetamine sales are estimated at $100 million to $200 million.\n\nBetween 1977 and 2003, more than twenty North Korean diplomats, agents, and trade officials have been implicated, detained, or arrested in drug-smuggling operations in more than a dozen countries. In 2004, two North Korean embassy employees were caught smuggling 150,000 tablets of clonazepam in Egypt, and in that same year, embassy employees from Bulgaria were arrested in Turkey in possession of over 500,000 tablets of Captagon (the brand name for the synthetic stimulant fenethylline, or phenethylline), with an estimated street value of $7 million. The government of North Korea has only admitted that individuals undertook such acts, and not at the direction of the state.\n\nAccording to the Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, since 2001 drug trafficking operations by diplomats had ceased, with the focus then becoming the production of drugs to be smuggled by other criminal organizations.\n\nIn 2003, the North Korean owned Pong Su was intercepted importing heroin into Australia. While four men who had landed pleaded guilty, the ship's four officers were acquitted on all charges.\n\nCounterfeiting currency is alleged to have begun in the 1970s under Kim Jong-il's direction; however, the notes produced at the time were not of high quality. Since then, and within the jurisdiction of Room 39, the North Korean government has counterfeited $50 and $100 United States banknotes using increasingly sophisticated techniques. In 1994, authorities in Hong Kong and Macao apprehended five North Korean diplomats and trade-mission members carrying around $430,000 in bills that turned out to be \"superdollar\" (also called \"supernote\") counterfeits. There have been two primary reasons for counterfeiting: the first is to wage economic warfare against the United States, and secondly, to help ease North Korea's domestic economic problems. According to a report by Dr. Balbina Hwang of American University, North Korea circulated $100 million in counterfeit currency in 2001. The revenues from this are estimated at between $15 million and $25 million annually. In 2013, the United States released its newly redesigned 100 dollar bill. The primary purpose of the redesign was to fight against counterfeiting and prevent the recurrence of the \"supernotes\" which were produced by North Korea.\n\nThe International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency is the primary treaty whereby states agree to criminalize acts of currency counterfeiting. North Korea is not a party to the treaty.\n\nAnalyst Andrei Lankov has described the evidence for the counterfeiting of superdollars as merely circumstantial. Gregory Elich of the Korea Policy Institute has argued that these allegations are unfounded. According to Elich, North Korea's intaglio press from the 1970s would be incapable of printing the supernotes, and the paper and ink would be extremely difficult for North Korea to produce. Furthermore, he says that the amounts of supernotes produced are too small to be economical.\n\nThere have been a few cases of North Korea being implicated in the production of counterfeit Viagra. These include: a 2004 arrest in Seoul, South Korea of a man with 4,000 counterfeit Viagra pills; and a 2005 report from Japan that North Korea was producing fake Viagra pills in factories in Chongjin, which were then sold in Hong Kong to customers of other Southeast-Asian countries (including China), and the Middle East. \n\nCounterfeit cigarettes have been a lucrative item for the country. The trade is believed to have begun in the 1990s and greatly increased in 2002 after Chinese authorities shut down many counterfeit operations in China, which then provided added incentive, knowledge, and capacity which could be relocated to North Korea. During a 2006 Congressional hearing, Peter A. Prahar of the Department of State, quoted reports that mentioned the existence of \"as many as 12\" factories in the DPRK capable of producing \"billions of packs of counterfeit cigarettes annually.\" The factories appear to be owned and operated by the North Korean military. The major factories for cigarette production were reportedly based in Rajin, though defectors also mentioned a factory in Pyongyang.\n\nIn 1995, Taiwan stopped a ship and confiscated 20 containers of counterfeit cigarette packaging, which is enough to make 2 million cartons of popular Japanese and British brands. In 2004, authorities in Vietnam, Taiwan, the Philippines, and Singapore also impounded containers filled with counterfeit cigarettes. Official congressional testimony in 2006 revealed that North Korea-sourced Marlboro brand cigarettes had been identified in 1,300 incidents across the United States. Revenues from counterfeit cigarettes are estimated at between $80 million and $160 million a year.\n\nNorth Korea is a \"Tier 3\" country (those who do not comply with human trafficking laws) as listed by the U.S. Department of State and has retained this ranking since 2007.\nThe country is a source country of men, women, and children for sex trafficking and forced labor. Forced labor is used both internally and externally. Countries which have North Korean forced laborers include Russia, China, Mongolia, and other places in Central Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.\n\nWhile the North Korean government claims these are \"contract workers\", reports claim that they are actually subjected to forced labor, that their movements and communications are subjected to strict surveillance, and that workers sent overseas do not have a choice in the type of work they will be doing nor do they receive pay for their work.\n\nIt is estimated that there are thousands of North Koreans working in logging, construction, and agriculture industries in Russia. These workers reportedly only receive two days of rest each year and face punishment if they fail to meet quotas.\n\nNorth Korea is not a party to the 2000 UN TIP Protocol.\n\nDuring the 1980s, North Korea emerged as a \"legal\" arms trader to primarily Third World countries, exporting relatively inexpensive, technically unsophisticated, but reliable weapons. During the Iran–Iraq War, some 90% of arms exports from North Korea went to Iran, and between 1981 and 1989, North Korea earned an estimated $4 billion from arms sales.\n\nNorth Korea has a known track record in proliferating nuclear and missile technology and in 2001, missile sales came to $560 million. Following its 2006 nuclear test, international sanctions have sought to limit or prevent North Korea from exporting various types of arms, materials, and technology. Prior to UN sanctions however, countries such as Japan and the United States took unilateral steps to curb such activities.\n\nUN sanctions now ban all arms, including small arms and light weapons.\nNorth Korea has developed an extensive and complicated arms trade network in an attempt to circumvent sanctions and uses front companies and embassies to traffic weapons. In a 2014 UN report, Syria, Myanmar, Eritrea, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Somalia and Iran were all suspected to have bought weapons from North Korea.\n\n, trade in banned small arms and ammunition was relatively insignificant, with reports include: imports totaling $45,500 by Brazil in 2007, of $3.1 million by the United Arab Emirates in 2006, and $364,400 by Ethiopia in 2005, and $121,400 by Mexico in 2005.\n\nIn 2009, three vessels were intercepted which were carrying North Korean weapons. Western and Israeli intelligence officials believed the weapons were destined for Hezbollah and Hamas.\n\nIn December 2009, Thailand intercepted a charter jet from Pyongyang carrying 35 tons of conventional weapons, including surface-to-air missiles.\n\nIn 2012, the United Nations reported that 445 North Korean-made graphite cylinders (which can be used to produce ballistic missiles) were seized from a Chinese freighter at the South Korean port of Busan on their way to Syria.\n\nIn 2013, a North Korean cargo ship seizure in Panama (carrying Cuban weapons) took place.\n\nIn August 2016, US intelligence tracked a ship sailing under a convenience flag of Cambodia, with a North Korean crew sailing from North Korea to Egypt was found with carrying 24,000 rocket-propelled grenades and components for another 6,000. It was ordered and paid by a private Egyptian business, but it is believed that it was for the Egyptian Army. The value of this order and others is estimated at $23 million.\n\nOver the past three decades, at least 18 North Korean diplomats have been caught smuggling rhino horn and ivory, though the real number is considered to be much higher. North Korean defectors have also reported smuggling of rhino horn and ivory from countries like Angola, Ethiopia, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Africa and Mozambique. Such illegal activity is considered low-risk but highly rewarding for the regime.\n\nRoom 39 (or Office 39) is the primary government organization that seeks ways to maintain the foreign currency slush fund of North Korea's leader. Room 39 oversees many of the government's illegal activities (although the military also has its own illegal activity division) such as counterfeiting and drug production. In 2010, the department was reported to have had 17 overseas branches, 100 trading companies and banks under its control. By 2009, the office allegedly had upwards of $5 billion in assets, much of which was spread in banks throughout Macau, Hong Kong, and Europe.\n\nIn August 2014, Yun Tae-hyong, a senior representative of North Korea's \"Korea Daesong Bank\", which is suspected of being under control of Room 39, was reported to have defected to Russia taking $5 million with him.\n\nIn 2015, the European Union placed the Korean National Insurance Company (KNIC) under sanctions and added that the KNIC had links to Room 39. The KNIC (which had offices in Hamburg, Germany and London, United Kingdom) was reported to have had assets of UK£787 million in 2014 and had been involved in scamming insurance markets and making investments in property and foreign exchange.\n\nAs well as illegal money-making ventures, North Korea has been condemned for politically motivated criminal acts related to the long-running Korean conflict.\n\nIn 1988, North Korea was added to the State Sponsors of Terrorism list for supplying groups with weapons and for their role in the Rangoon bombing and the bombing of Korean Air Flight 858. In 2008 President George W. Bush agreed to remove North Korea from the list after North Korea met their obligations to provide access to their nuclear program and the resumption of disabling of their nuclear facilities, but continued hostilities and the fear that North Korea could sell nuclear weapons to terrorist organizations have called for the nation to be relisted.\n\nIn 2017, North Korea was relisted as a terrorist state in response to the murder of Kim Jong-nam, its role in the Syrian Civil War, close relationships with Iran, and it backing Islamic terrorist organizations, especially Hamas.\n\nBetween 1977 and 1983, North Korea abducted several Japanese citizens. North Korea has admitted to abducting 13 Japanese citizens, and Japan lists 17 as having been abducted. There are also testimonies which list nine Europeans as being abducted by North Korea.\n\nThe purposes of abduction ranges from using the abductees as translators/teachers, to become wives, and to obtain identities for other clandestine operations. During the Korean War North Korea abducted an estimated 82,959 South Koreans, and in the post-war period South Korea claims that a further 489 South Koreans have been abducted by North Korea.\n\nAccording to cybersecurity experts, North Korea maintains an army of hackers trained to disrupt enemy computer networks and steal both money and sensitive data. In the previous decade, it was blamed for numerous cyber-attacks and other hacking attacks in South Korea and elsewhere.\n\nAfter the Sony Pictures hack in 2014, U.S. government officials stated that the North Korean government was \"centrally involved\" in the hacking. White House officials treated the situation as a \"serious national security matter\", and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) formally stated that they had connected the North Korean government to the cyber-attack.\n\nOn 8 October 2018, Bloomberg reported a North Korean hacking group had tried to steal at least $1.1 billion in a series of attacks on global banks from 2014-2018, as uncovered by cybersecurity company FireEye.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council has passed multiple resolutions against North Korea and its weapons program including, UNSC Resolution 825 (May 1993), UNSC Resolution 1695 (July 2006), UNSC 1874 (June 2009), UNSC Resolution 2094 (March 2013) and most recently, UNSC Resolution 2371 (August 2017). Were the international community to fully enforce UNSC 1874, it is estimated that North Korea would lose between $1.5 and $3.7 billion.\n\nSince 1950, the United States has maintained an embargo against North Korea for their role in starting the Korean War. The embargo and related sanctions have been extended to combat North Korea's various illicit activities and continued aggression.\n\nIn 2005, under the US Patriot Act section 311, $25 million of North Korea's cash was frozen at Macau-based Banco Delta Asia, which the US Treasury said North Korea used for illicit activities.\n\nIn 2010, US President Barack Obama signed Executive Order 13551, which \"targets North Korea’s importation and exportation of arms, importation of luxury goods, and other illicit activities, including money laundering, the counterfeiting of goods and currency, bulk cash smuggling, and narcotics trafficking.\"\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "23873702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23873702", "title": "Self-publishing", "text": "Self-publishing\n\nSelf-publishing is the publication of media by its author without the involvement of an established publisher. In common parlance, the term usually refers to physical written media, such as books and magazines, or digital media, such as e-books and websites. It can also apply to albums, pamphlets, brochures, video content, zines, or uploading images to a website. \n\nUnlike the traditional publishing model, in which control of the publication is shared with a publisher, the author controls the entire process, including design, price, distribution, marketing, and public relations. The author may perform these activities themselves or they may outsource these tasks. In traditional publishing, the publisher bears the costs, such as editing, marketing, and paying advances, and reaps a substantial share of the profits; by comparison, in self-publishing, the author bears all of these costs but earns a higher share of the profit. \n\nThe $1 billion market of self-publishing has changed considerably in the past two decades with new technologies such as the Internet providing increasing alternatives to traditional publishing. Self-publishing is increasingly becoming the first choice for writers. Most self-published books sell very few copies, although there are approximately a dozen books that sell into the millions. The quality of self-published works varies considerably, with many low quality titles on the market.\n\nSelf-publishing is not a new phenomenon; after the invention of the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg in 1440, numerous books have been self-published. In 1759, British satirist Laurence Sterne's self-published the first two volumes of \"Tristram Shandy\". While most novels were distributed by established publishers, there have been authors who chose to self-publish, or who chose to start their own presses, such as John Locke, Jane Austen, Emily Dickinson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Martin Luther, Marcel Proust, Derek Walcott, and Walt Whitman. In 1908, Ezra Pound sold \"A Lume Spento\" for six pence each. Franklin Hiram King's book \"Farmers of Forty Centuries\" was self-published in 1911, and was subsequently published commercially. In 1931 the author of \"The Joy of Cooking\" paid a local printing company to print 3000 copies; the Bobbs-Merrill Company acquired the rights, and since then the book has sold over 18 million copies. In 1941, writer Virginia Woolf chose to self-publish her final novel \"Between the Acts\" on her Hogarth Press, in effect starting her own press.\n\nUp until two decades ago, self-publishing used to be described by the negative term vanity press, with the connotation that the only reason that a book was being printed was to satisfy the author’s personal ego. Authors were considered to have been insufficiently talented to have been published the \"proper\" way via an established publishing house. Traditional publishers typically paid authors a percentage of the sales of their books, so publishers would select only those authors whose books they believed were likely to sell well. As a result, it was difficult for an unknown author to get a publishing contract under these circumstances. So-called vanity publishers offered an alternative: they would publish any book in exchange for an upfront payment by the author. With this arrangement, the author would not own the print run of finished books, and would not control how they were distributed. Critics of vanity publishers included James D. Macdonald, who claimed that vanity publishing violated \"Yog’s Law\" which states that \"Money should flow toward the author.\" Vanity publishing usually required a one-time payment of $5,000 to $10,000 to do a print run of 1000 books; these books usually ended up in boxes in a garage.\nSelf-published books have had a negative stigma. To be sure, self-publishing is sometimes seen as a sign that an author believes in his or her work; for instance, photographer-turned-publisher Max Bondi said that \"investing in a project shows that you believe in it\". Nevertheless, part of the reason for the negative stigma is that many self-published books, particularly in past decades, were of dubious quality. For example, in 1995, a retired TV repairman self-published his autobiography in which he described how he had been stepped on by a horse when he was a boy, how he had been almost murdered by his stepfather when he was a young man in Mexico, and how his ex-wife had clawed his face with her fingernails. The repairman spent $10,000 to have his 150-page masterpiece printed up, and, for promotion purposes, he sent copies to a local library, to the White House, and to everybody with the repairman’s same last name. These efforts did not lead anywhere; today, the book is largely forgotten.\n\nEven in the first decade of the 21st century, self-publishing was often seen as a \"mark of failure\", although there are many indicators that this is changing. The image of self-publishing has been improving, since many well-known writers, who generate high quality content, have first started by self-publishing, or have switched from traditional publishing to self-publishing. According to some views, the stigma of self-publishing is gone entirely, while others feel that self-publishing still has a way to go to cultivate respectability. Book critic Ron Charles in the \"Washington Post\" complained in an opinion piece that \"No, I don’t want to read your self-published book\", citing concerns that there were too many published authors, and that self-published books lacked quality, and were published by authors with little understanding of the audience or the market. But the negative stigma has been receding with the advent of dozens of authors who have self-published their way to literary success. Breakaway bestsellers such as \"Fifty Shades of Grey\" and \"The Martian\" were first self-published, helping to lend respectability to self-publishing in general. Further, with new avenues of self-publishing, there are more opportunities for authors to break through directly to audiences.\n\nToday what constitutes vanity publishing is not clearly defined. An author who simply uploads a manuscript to an online service like Kindle or Smashwords, and who then expects a bestseller without doing vital marketing and promotion efforts, might be described as doing vanity publishing. Increasingly, vanity publishing is defined as a behavior rather than a definition of certain companies or individuals, although there remain a handful of companies that clearly qualify as vanity publishers. These companies offer the cachet of being published and make the majority of their income on fees for intangible services paid for by the author in advance of publication, rather than afterwards from sales revenue.\n\nAccordingly, the line between vanity publishing and traditional publishing has become increasingly blurred in recent years. Currently there are several companies that offer digital and print publication with no upfront cost, although many of them offer fee-based services such as editing, marketing and cover design.\n\nA huge impetus to self-publishing has been rapid advances in technology, particularly the exponential growth of the Internet and a general shift from analog to digital technology. The Internet has been described as a \"great equalizer\" in the publishing world, since it enables an author to put their books out there and \"stand naked before the world.\" Costs for printing and distributing a book have fallen dramatically. Advances in e-book readers and tablet computers have improved readability; such devices allow readers to \"carry\" numerous books in a small portable device. These technologies make it possible to have a book printed or digitally delivered after an order has been placed, so there are no costs for storing inventory. Print-On-Demand (or POD) technology, which became available in the mid-1990s, can produce a high quality product equal to those produced by traditional publishers; in the past, one could easily identify a self-published title by its lack of quality. Print-on-demand was easy, since an author could simply upload a manuscript, choose an interior file format and a cover, and the book could be printed as needed, avoiding warehousing costs, and reducing the risk of being stuck with a huge unsold inventory. Further, the Internet provides access to global distribution channels via online retailers, so a self-published book can be instantly available to book buyers worldwide. A Canada-based firm named Wattpad offers streaming video productions based on the stories of self-published authors as of 2017.\nInternet transmission of digital books was combined with print-on-demand publishing with the invention of the Espresso Book Machine which was first demonstrated at the New York Public Library in 2007. This machine prints, collates, covers, and binds a single book. It is in libraries and bookstores throughout the world, and it can make copies of out-of-print editions. Small bookstores sometimes use it to compete with large bookstore chains. It works by taking two Internet-delivered pdf files, one for the text and one for the cover, and then prints an entire paperback book in a matter of minutes, which then drops down a chute.\n\nAmazon's introduction of the \"Kindle\" and its self-publishing platform, \"Kindle Direct Publishing\" or KDP, in 2007 has been described as a tipping point in self-publishing, which \"opened the floodgates\". It was an \"exclusively electronic self-publishing platform\" which was e-book only, free for authors to upload their books, and gave authors control over how their books were priced as well as access to the same distribution channels as major publishers.\n\nIn recent times the publishing industry as a whole is in a great deal of flux, in a sort of \"Wild Wild West\" state. The online retailing giant, Amazon, has had a huge impact on the book-selling industry, driving many brick-and-mortar bookstores out of business and making inroads into publishing as well. Amazon has enticed readers away from bookstores and into an online environment, and its KDP and CreateSpace distribution channels have spawned a huge growth in self-publishing. As a result, the numbers of self-published authors are ever-increasing.\n\nThere is an anti-establishment aspect to self-publishing, in that it has been seen historically as a way to defy authority or resist oppression. The self-publishing movement can also be viewed as a part of the Do-it-yourself culture which \"flourishes in environments of communitarian support.\" A writer who is rejected by the usual system can find solace in self-publishing. Some struggling authors complained that the traditional publishing model was too \"insular\", keeping out different ideas about stories as well as ones with unusual characters or plotlines, or which dealt with minorities, and self-publishing was a way for these formerly outcast writers to connect with readers. Libraries have also become involved with self-publishing; the \"Library Journal\" and Biblioboard worked together to create a self-publishing platform called Self-e in which authors submit books online which are made available to readers. These books are reviewed by \"Library Journal\", and the best ones are published nationwide; authors do not make money this way but it serves as a marketing tool.\n\nThe dramatic changes have impacted the standard publishing industry as well, which is controlling a smaller share of the overall publishing market, forcing many traditional publishers to consolidate to reduce costs. The squeeze has been applied to such authors, some of whom have complained that traditional publishers have often asked for the author to contribute part of the start-up expenses personally, in effect deviating from the usual model of the publisher providing all upfront expenses.\n\nSelf-publishing is still a \"difficult and demanding way to go\" but is increasingly becoming a respectable, if alternative, choice for a writing career. Self-publishers who are savvy, motivated and hard-working, can build audiences and make money.\n\nIn the traditional publishing model, editors and publishers act as a filter or screen, weeding out possibly radical or badly written or substandard content. In contrast, self-publishing enables authors to bypass this filter and sell their books directly to the public. The wide-open uncensored nature of self-publishing has caused problems and controversies with pornographic or abuse-themed content. Amazon has a policy against selling content relating to rape and incest and bestiality which states \"We don't accept pornographic or offensive depictions of graphic sexual acts\", but it is sometimes difficult for book distributors to distinguish what type of content is acceptable and what is not. Some retailers have had to remove problematic content. A survey found that self-published erotica was more extreme among self-published books than mainstream books. Erotica is about 1% of the mainstream market but 29% of the self-published market, according to one informal survey in 2013.\n\nThere have been some controversial self-published books, such as that of a man who posted a photo of his dead wife, whom he had murdered. Celebrity Kim Kardashian self-published a 445-page book which consisted entirely of selfies, a book described in \"Slate magazine\" as having \"no literary ambitions at all – it barely has words.\"\n\nWhile editors at a traditional publisher would often insist on fact-checking, and doing due diligence regarding claims made by an author, there are no requirements in the self-publishing model for this to happen. Self-publishing has attracted political provocateurs such as Milo Yiannopoulos who was able to publish his tome \"Dangerous\" on Amazon despite being dumped by traditional publisher Simon & Schuster as well as Breitbart after a video surfaced of him condoning pedophilia.\n\nAs a check on self-published content, and as part of its overall strategy of empowering consumers by giving more information, Amazon permits reviews of its products, including books that it sells. However, it is possible for self-published authors to \"game\" the Amazon review system to make their books appear better than they are, perhaps by encouraging large numbers of five-star reviews by paying anonymous reviewers to write fake laudatory comments. According to one view, the system is at serious risk of fraud and deception. Amazon has responded by emphasizing reviews in which the book purchase is verified, and it has fought back by, in some cases, suing people and service firms who sell fake reviews.\n\nA problem for some successful self-published authors is plagiarism. It is relatively easy for a manuscript to be copied and changed in superficial ways, but changed sufficiently so that it is hard for plagiarism-detecting software to catch the similarities between the real book and the plagiarized copy; then the copy can be uploaded online under a new title and different author name, which can earn royalties for the plagiarist. For example, author Rachel Ann Nunes, who wrote \"A Bid for Love\" in 1998, found that her manuscript had been plagiarized, with a nearly identical book entitled \"The Auction Deal\". Nunes hired a lawyer to track down the plagiarists. In the previous publisher-dominated system, a publisher would have been liable for selling a plagiarized book, but in the world of self-publishing, there are no liabilities involved if Amazon removes the plagiarized titles. It is often difficult to catch and prosecute the plagiarists, who can masquerade using false identities.\n\nThe publishing industry, including self-publishing, is changing so rapidly that it is hard to make accurate predictions about where it is headed. It is likely that self-publishing will continue to grow, and that authors will demand more and more data about their readers as well as how well their books are selling. Self-publishing is growing in marketing sophistication and ambition, according to one view.\n\nRegarding the e-book market, there are predictions that independent authors will be grabbing an increasing slice of this market. Traditional publishers are losing ground in the e-book market, according to several sources. E-books published by traditional publishers declined by 11% from 2015 to 2016. The drop in e-book sales was really more of a phenomenon in which established publishers were raising the prices of their e-books, and saw a relative decline in sales compared to their print offerings. In contrast, sales of self-published e-books have been increasing. An increasing number of e-books are being read on tablets as opposed to dedicated E-book readers. One forecast was that digital sales would continue to increase over time, and paper-based publishing would become a \"niche market\" like with newspapers and magazines.\n\nA report in 2017 suggested that Amazon was working on a system to transform foreign language fiction into English with its AmazonCrossing service. Amazon accounted for 10% of all translated foreign fiction books, according to one report.\n\nThere are an increasing variety of resources for authors choosing the self-publishing route.\n\nPublishing guru Jane Friedman breaks out the publishing routes for authors into basic categories:\n\n\nThe author as a self-publisher also takes on many of the creative tasks to complete the finished works, which include creative writing as well as selecting the writing software, editing, marketing, and cover design. While self-publishing means that the author is in \"control\" of the entire process of production, from writing and editing, to layout to distribution, and to choosing publishing platforms and selecting marketing variables such as the price, many of these tasks can be outsourced to professionals. Professionals can be located through search engines, freelancing websites such as Reedsy, word of mouth, identifying and contacting creative assistants who have worked on already-published books, and searching relevant forums. Authors can spend up to $5000 for a variety of services to assist with publishing.\n\nThere is strong agreement that self-published authors fare better if they are able to employ a skilled editor, preferably one with a financial interest in the success of the book, and who can bring a savvy understanding of the market as well as a strong sense of story development. Self-published author James Altucher describes working with an editor:\n\nA liability for self-published authors is that if they can find a skilled editor, he or she is still being \"paid\" by the author for upfront editing work, and may not care whether the book is successful or not. A big advantage for working with a traditional publishing arrangement is having an editor and publisher who have a financial interest in making the book a bestseller.\n\nA self-published author is responsible for the technical aspects of self-publishing, which include formatting for printing and digital conversion. Formatting can be complex and time-consuming but patient people can learn how to do it by themselves, but often hire this task out to experienced freelancers.\n\nUnless a book is to be sold directly from the author to the public, an International Standard Book Number or ISBN is required to uniquely identify the title. ISBN is a global standard used for all titles worldwide. Most self-publishing companies either provide their own ISBN to a title or can provide direction about how to get one. A separate ISBN number is needed for each edition of the book. It may be in the best interest of the self-published author to retain ownership of the ISBN and copyright instead of using a number owned by a vanity press.\n\nThe direction of the marketing and promotion effort is the responsibility of the author. Self-published authors can negotiate to have audiobooks made.\n\nThe dominant self-publishing platform is Amazon which controls the vast share of the market, but there are numerous competitors and platforms in which authors can upload and sell their books.\n\nKindle Direct Publishing or KDP is Amazon’s e-book publishing unit which was launched when the company began selling its Amazon Kindle book reading device in 2007. Books can be published in numerous languages. Amazon’s KDP has hundreds of thousands of self-published titles. Amazon’s KDP program uses ASIN identifiers instead of ISBNs to identify e-books. Amazon does not release sales figures of its authors. Many authors prefer Amazon for its global clout and reach. One analysis suggested that Amazon earned $2.3 billion from e-book revenues in 2016, and 25% of these were from self-published e-books; and Amazon released 4 million e-book titles in 2016, and 40% of them were self-published. Another estimate was that Amazon controls 70% of the e-book market.\n\nAmazon's \"Kindle Unlimited\" service lets readers read any books in its catalog, provided that the users pay a monthly fee. Amazon tracks which books are selected and read by subscribers. An author who wants to have their book included in this program enters into Amazon’s \"KDP Select\" program, and as part of the agreement, the author promises to make their book exclusive to Amazon. The author can opt out of the KDP program every ninety days. An estimate in 2017 was that of Amazon's Kindle Unlimited market, about 60% of the books read and borrowed were self-published. Amazon initially began the program by paying authors whenever their book was chosen, but then it switched to an arrangement in which it pays authors based on pages read. Each month, Amazon establishes a fund from which to pay authors, based on Amazon’s accounting of which pages are read. Amazon has been criticized for short-changing authors by paying them out of this monthly fund. As a result of the program, many Amazon authors found that their income decreased substantially when the company switched to the pages-read basis. The collective fund for KDP authors in August 2017 was $19.4 million which was the \"largest ever\" of the monthly funds, but overall authors received the lowest amount, which was $0.00419 per page for that month. Some authors tried to compensate for less income by slightly altering and republishing their work, to try to increase the total of pages read. The change to the pages-read model was criticized as being a \"huge pay cut\" for authors. None of the big 5 publishers contributed books to Kindle Unlimited as of 2017.\n\nIngramSpark lets authors to publish digital and paperback editions of their books. It distributes books to most online bookstores. Brick-and-mortar stores can also order books from IngramSpark at wholesales prices for sale in their own venues. It is run by Ingram Content Group.\n\nApple sells books via its App Store which is a digital distribution platform for its mobile apps on its iOS operating system. Apps can be downloaded to its devices such as the iPhone, the iPod Touch handheld computer, and the iPad. Apple pays authors 70% of its proceeds at its Apple iBookstore where it sells iBooks.\n\nSmashwords is a California-based company founded by Mark Coker which allows authors and independent publishers to upload their manuscripts electronically to the Smashwords service, which then converts them into multiple e-book formats which can be read on various devices. Authors control what price is set.\n\nBarnes & Noble pays 65% of the list price of e-books purchased through its online store called Pubit.\n\nKobo is a Canadian company which sells e-books, audiobooks, e-readers and tablet computers which originated as a cloud e-reading service.\n\nScribd is an open publishing platform which features a digital library, an e-book and audiobook subscription service. It began as an online sharing site for books, and evolved into a store; books published there entitle an author to 80% of the sales price.\n\nLulu is an online print-on-demand, self-publishing and distribution platform.\n\nPrint-on-demand (or POD) publishing refers to the ability to print high-quality books as needed. This is usually the most economical option for self-publishers who expect sales to be sporadic over time. An alternative is to hire a printing press to do a print run in which a large number of books are printed at one time, such as a hundred or a thousand copies, which can result in a slightly lower per-book printing cost, but risks holding onto unsold inventory for an extended period of time. Print-on-demand means that a book is printed only after it is purchased, lessening the risk, which eliminates the need for expensive warehouse space. Many companies, such as Amazon’s Createspace, Outskirts Press, IngramSpark, Blurb, Lulu, Llumina Press, and iUniverse allow single books to be printed at per-book costs which are not much higher than those paid by publishing companies for large print runs. Ingram is the largest book distributor, and it can help self-published authors get access to 39,000 bookstores, according to one report. The physical quality of print-on-demand self-published books is generally the same as that from an established publisher, although quality can in some instances vary.\n\nGenerally self-publishing works best with e-books because, unlike print-on-demand self-publishing, it solves the twin problems of price and distribution. There are a variety of e-book formats and tools that can be used to create them. Because it is possible to create e-books with no up-front or per-book costs, this is a popular option for self-publishers. E-book publishing platforms include Pronoun, Smashwords, Blurb, Amazon Kindle Direct Publishing, CinnamonTeal Publishing, Papyrus Editor, Ebook Leap, Bookbaby, Pubit, Lulu, Llumina Press, and CreateSpace. When a person buys an E-book, the buyer does not \"own\" the book, but owns a license only to read the book. Formatting standards for e-books continue to evolve; at present, there have been compatibility problems with some digital e-book readers. For example, a recent EPUB 3.1 e-book format is not compatible with earlier e-book readers such as the Kindle. E-book formats include EPUB, MOBI and PDF, among others. In 2017, there was a report in the \"Chicago Tribune\" that e-books sales are continuing to increase. Epublishing distributors allow an author to sell on multiple platforms, often providing conversion and formatting services, usually charge no fees upfront, and make money by taking a small percentage of each book sold.\n\nUsers pay to have their books published. While a commercial publisher’s market is the book-buying public at large, the vanity publisher’s market is the author himself or herself. Some authors buy substantial copies of their own book which are then used as giveaways or promotional tools. The term \"vanity press\" is considered pejorative since it suggests that a person who hires such a service is unqualified or unable to have their book succeed in the market, and that the author is printing the book only out of vanity. In this business model, there can be elements of fraud, such that some vanity presses masquerade as legitimate publishers, and pretend to be selective and choosy in their book selections, and prey upon a would-be author’s desire to be published. If a vanity press charges a higher amount to print a run of books than a regular printer, it can be an indication of deception and fraud.\n\nThere are numerous firms offering publishing assistance, and they include Aventine Press, Self Publishing Inc., Hillcrest Media, iUniverse, Xlibris, and AuthorHouse. The parent company of AuthorHouse and iUniverse is Author Solutions based in Bloomington, Indiana. Aer.io, owned by Ingram, is a service which allows authors as well as small presses to promote books via social media, with one-click book buying via a direct link. Wattpad gives authors data about which chapters are read by readers, and demographic information such as the ages and locations of readers. In the UK, author services companies include Matador and Silverwood. \n\nCreateSpace is Amazon’s print-on-demand book publishing service. Authors can sign up for an account, and the online software can guide an author through the steps of publication, such as uploading a cover, selecting distribution channels and setting prices. Books uploaded to CreateSpace become part of Amazon’s online catalog and can be made available to book buyers around the world. Amazon collects revenues from book sales on behalf of authors, and then deposits royalty monies directly into an author’s account, usually after a few months or so after the sale. CreateSpace offers additional services to help authors, such as cover design and copyediting ($120+) as well as converting the manuscript file to a Kindle-compatible e-book file ($70). Createspace offers authors free book identifying numbers or ISBNs without extra charge, or authors can buy their own ISBN numbers.\n\nSmashwords publishes and distributes e-books. Smashwords authors keep 60% of the sale price, and Smashwords keeps 10%, and the retailer keeps 30%; if a sale is made directly through Smashwords, the author keeps 85% of the sales price. Smashwords provides a list of freelance assistance services. In 2017, it distributed 250,000 titles for 60,000 authors to most of the world's e-book stores in exchange for a cut of the author's profits. Smashwords books can go on sale a few minutes after they’re uploaded.\n\nLulu publishes print and e-books and offers publishing-related services such as website design, cover design, editing packages, and strategies for social media promotions. It was founded in 2002. Lulu charges nothing upfront, and each time a book is sold, it keeps 20% of the profit and pays 80% to the author. Lulu offers additional services such as editing ($450) and cover design ($130) and other services such as design and formatting which can cost from $700 to $5000. Lulu enables authors to print books not only in paperback form, but in hardcover and comic book forms as well.\n\nAuthor Solutions sells services such as editing, e-book production and marketing services. According to one report, it served 170,000 authors who wrote 200,000 titles as of 2017. Penguin Random House, a mainstream publisher, once bought, then sold, Author Solutions.\n\nFastPencil sells editing services, as well as consulting services related to publishing and distribution, for a fee.\n\nReedsy is a British online author services firm which connects authors and freelance professionals. It has a network of vetted editors, cover designers, illustrators and book marketers and takes a 10% cut of each contract between author and freelancer. In addition, it offers online software tools to help authors convert files for publication in print and in e-book form, and offers training courses by email to help authors navigate the self-publishing process. The firm checks the credentials of publishing freelancers such as story editors, cover designers, marketers and others, by verifying their previous work experience for mainstream publishers as well as their overall track record in the publishing industry. Reedsy checks the credentials of writing contests as well to help writers avoid wasting time with fake contests and prizes. In addition, it offers online software tools to help authors convert their manuscript files to files suitable for publishing e-books, such as EPUB and PDF formats, as well as learning programs to help authors navigate the self-publishing process. In 2016, the Reedsy community included 20,000 authors and 500 freelancers, and had helped them publish 3,000 books. Reedsy began in 2014 after being funded by Seedcamp, founded by Emmanuel Nataf, Richard Fayet, Matthew Cobb and Vincent Durand. While the start-up firm is headquartered in London, it is a \"completely officeless business\" such that its staff is physically distributed in different locations, and conducts business via cloud computing.\n\nMatador is the self-publishing imprint of Troubador Publishing Ltd, a traditional publishing company based in Leicester, United Kingdom. In the last 19 years Matador has published over 5000 titles in book and ebook formats, approximately 500 titles a year. The company not only has print 'on demand' distribution, but sales representation by Star Book Sales and distribution to retailers via Orca Distribution. It published Louise Walters second novel, \"A Life Between Us\", in 2017, as well as Polly Courtney's \"Golden Handcuffs\" and Ben Hunt-Davis' \"Will It Make the Boat Go Faster\", which sold over 40,000 copies.\n\nThere are a variety of freelance professionals available through the Internet who can assist with a wide variety of publishing-related tasks.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere is wide consensus that since the market is flooded with titles, the most difficult task facing self-published authors is attracting attention to their book. Some authors have tried unconventional methods to cut through the clutter. For example, self-published author James Altucher offers to pay readers if they can prove they bought and read his book; he explained that people are more likely to value what they pay for, and this offer entices them to actually read his book. While he takes a small loss each time a reader accepts his offer, overall he feels it promotes sales. Experimentation helps. One strategist suggested that an author should have a creative marketing campaign and try one tactic each day, while studying those tactics undertaken by successful self-publishers. One author spends roughly $70,000 annually creating and promoting her books, and hires a dozen freelancers for various parts of her operation. Another self-published author gave 80 books to friends, who told their friends, to generate positive publicity. A strategy that helps many self-published authors is to write a series, making the first installment free, and charging for subsequent versions.\n\nAuthors have tried numerous approaches to promoting and marketing their books, including...\n\n\nMost book contests are open only to books published by established publishers, but there are a few contests open to self-published writers. One is the Illinois Library Association, in conjunction with BiblioBoards and with Reaching Across Illinois Library System, which sponsored a prize for best self-published novel; the contest is open to Illinois-based self-published writers. The British newspaper \"The Guardian\", in conjunction with selected publishers, has a \"Self published book of the month\" award, which began in 2014; entries are submitted digitally and must be in the English language, and the contest is open only to residents of the United Kingdom.\n\nMany writers are self-publishing. One reason for the expansion of self-publishing is that with the ease of technology, and declining costs and rapid time frame to publication, new opportunities have opened up for people to publish. The motivations of self-published writers are many, and include building a career as a writer and satisfying an ambition, along with money, which isn’t usually the top reason. Advice for aspiring writers who are considering self-publishing includes understanding one’s own goals, make sure your book is 100% ready with no mistakes before releasing it, seeking help for parts of the development process where it is needed, having fun, and promoting books through social media. Successful self-publishing requires an entrepreneurial mindset, and is a lot of hard work.\n\nMany retirees are self-publishing the story of their life, to leave as a legacy to their offspring after they’re gone. Sometimes adults help write and edit the book for their parent; for example, Arthur Chiang helped his mother describe her life as an immigrant, adding photos, and helping with the technical aspects of preparing the manuscript for publication. There have been instances in which parents, to give their teenaged children experience with writing and to involve them in fun projects, acted as \"publishers\" for their children, paying some of the costs to have their offspring self-published. Eleven-year-old John Ruskin sold a book of poetry he self-published with his father. Author Brooks Olsen chose Amazon after writing her self-published book, which was edited in part by her parents, with a cover design from her boyfriend, saying she liked having Amazon’s clout behind her.\n\nWhile almost all self-published books do not make much money, there are dozens of self-published books that have broken through to huge audiences and success, and which get much media attention. The number of authors who have sold more than one million e-books on Amazon from 2011 to 2016 was 40, according to one estimate.\n\n\nTraditional publishers can offer editorial guidance, marketing muscle, and access to well-established channels of distribution, and have been the preferred choice for writers for the past century. Still, there are increasing advantages for self-publishing, and there are increasing instances of writers moving between both the traditional and self-publishing models, for various reasons. Self-publishing is an increasingly likely choice for authors who are \"midcareer, midlist, middle-aged, more or less middlebrow, and somewhat Internet savvy,\" writes journalist Neal Pollack, who extols the promise of being able to reach readers directly. Elizabeth Prybylski, publisher of Insomnia, an indie press, describes the main difference between self-publishing and traditional publishing is \"who puts up the overhead of production.\"\n\nAnalyses have been made suggesting that self-published authors’ earnings have been comparing favorably to earnings from established publishers, and this may be a factor causing established authors to switch to the self-publishing approach. While a self-published author can typically keep 70% of the sales price, a typical contract with a publisher will be payment of an advance sum such as $5000 to $10,000, plus receiving 25% of digital sales and 7% to 12% of the list price for bound books, which the author will receive after the publisher recoups the money paid for the advance to the author.\n\nAuthors being published the traditional way have seen their income from publishing decline in recent years. A survey from the Authors Guild found that authors with contracts with established publishers were making 30% less money in 2015 than they had been making in 2009. Talented writers in traditional publishing, who have won prizes and awards, are earning less, with some living at or near the poverty line. Some books sell only 5,000 to 20,000 copies, some less than that. Factors identified as dampening the income levels of such authors include the online piracy of digital material, major publishing houses consolidating to focus more on profits, and the rise of Amazon and self-publishing.\nSome writers have been dissatisfied with the marketing efforts of a traditional publisher. One writer got fed up when the publisher made basic mistakes with a book launch, and so he \"decided to take his book back\" and self-published it. He hired the firm Reedsy to redesign his book \"The Pink Marine\", and went on to form his own imprint. Novelist Louise Walters felt that traditional publishers were \"debut-centric\" and obsessed with celebrities. David Mamet, whose book \"The Secret Knowledge: On the Dismantling of American Culture\" had been on the New York Times bestseller list, chose to release his novella by self-publishing. He had been dissatisfied with the marketing efforts of his traditional publisher. There was a report that suggested that traditional publishers have lessened their marketing efforts on behalf of authors. Another example is romance novelist Courtney Milan who switched to self-publishing because she wanted to have \"more agency over the background of her characters\" and her stories. Some photographers, who felt hemmed in by the traditional photo book publishing world, have started up their own imprints as a way to publish their own books. Writer Sarah Grimm moved away from the traditional publishing approach to self-publishing because she wanted greater control over cover design, publication dates and the story content.\n\nNovelist Louise Walters explained why she switched to the self-publishing mode, after her publisher rejected her second novel, describing self-publishing as an \"exhilarating change\":\n\nStill, it is likely that when a self-published author creates a bestseller, that he or she will accept an offer from a major publisher. Some traditional publishers troll the lists of bestselling self-published titles to look for new books to sell. Smashwords president Mark Coker predicted that it will become more difficult for traditional publishers to entice the best self-published authors, simply because traditional publishers don’t pay as much. Successful self-published authors have been courted by literary agents and publishers offering substantial sums of money. It’s getting harder for established publishers to woo away successful self-published authors since the royalty structure they offer may not match the profits to be made from publishing on their own.\n\nBenefits include:\n\n\n\nThere are significant challenges to self-publishing as well.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2872688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2872688", "title": "Shegetz", "text": "Shegetz\n\nShegetz (שייגעץ or in Hebrew שֵׁיְגֶּץ; alternative Romanizations incl. shaygetz, sheigetz, shaigetz, sheygets; plural שקצים shkotzim, shgatzim) is a Yiddish word that has entered English to refer to a non-Jewish boy or young man. It is used disparagingly.\n\nThe word shegetz, like its feminine counterpart shiksa, according to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", is derived from \"sheqeṣ\" (\"a detested thing\").\n\nIn former times, it was common practice for Ashkenazi Jews, that is, Jews in Eastern Europe who were harassed by youths to label their tormentors \"shkotzim\". Nacham Grossbard of Haifa, writing in the \"Memorial Book for the Community of Ciechanów\" (1962), recounted these memories of his early years in Poland: \"At the finish of the match, as soon as the whistle blows, we Jewish boys run as fast as we can, out of breath, all the way home in order not to have stones thrown at us or be hit by the shkotzim (non-Jewish boys).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24413487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24413487", "title": "Shimoyama incident", "text": "Shimoyama incident\n\nThe was an incident in Japan in 1949, which involved the disappearance and death of , the first president of Japanese National Railways. He disappeared on his way to work, July 5, 1949, and his body was found the next day.\n\nFollowing the discovery of his body, the media offered conflicting explanations involving suicide and murder, while the police did not publicly report the results of their investigation, which was then ended. The Mitaka incident, the Matsukawa derailment, and the Shimoyama incident occurred within one month of one another, and together are known as JNR's Three Big Mysteries.\n\nSadanori Shimoyama, bureaucrat of Ministry of Transport (former Ministry of Railways), was appointed the first president of JNR when it was established on June 1, 1949. Under the Dodge Line policy of the government, Shimoyama was responsible for drastic personnel cutbacks of JNR, as a part of which on July 4, 1949 he released a list of about 30,000 employees to be fired.\nOn the morning of next day, July 5, Shimoyama left his home in Ōta, Tokyo around 8:20. On his way to work, he instructed the driver to stop at the Mitsukoshi Department Store in Nihonbashi. Having arrived at the store before its opening, they returned to a Chiyoda Bank office (now The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ) in front of Tokyo Station. They then followed a circuitous route back to the Mitsukoshi store. Around 9:37 AM, Shimoyama again got out of the official car, telling the driver to wait for five minutes. He quickly entered the Mitsukoshi. This was the last he was heard from.\n\nNormally, Shimoyama arrived at JNR headquarters before 9 AM and was greeted by his secretary. On the day of his disappearance, in the tense atmosphere of impending personnel cutbacks, there was an important meeting scheduled at 9 AM. His failure to arrive, after confirming from home that he would be there, caused a great stir at JNR headquarters, and the police were contacted. The investigation began as a missing persons case. On July 6, past 12:30 AM, Shimoyama's dismembered body was found on the Jōban Line between Kita-Senju Station and Ayase Station. He had been hit by a train.\n\nAfter the disappearance, an individual fitting Shimoyama's description was reported seen first in the Mitsukoshi department store, then riding on a Ginza Line subway train bound for Asakusa. In the Mitsukoshi store, many people reported having seen him.\n\nAfter 1:40 PM, the individual spoke with a station attendant at Tobu Railway's Gotanno Station, close to where the body was discovered. Following that, from 2 PM until some time past 5 PM, he stopped at Matsuhiro Ryokan, close to the station. There were many reports of a man with Shimoyama's height and clothing walking south along the Tōbu Isesaki Line from 6 PM until after 8 PM from Gotanno toward the spot in which the body was found.\n\nFound on the outbound track of the Jōban Line, it was determined that Shimoyama's body had been severed around 20 minutes after midnight by outbound freight train No. 869, pulled by locomotive D51 651. The official autopsy was led by Tokyo University professor of forensic medicine Tanemoto Furuhata. Based on the injuries to the body, it was determined that Shimoyama died prior to being hit by the train. The autopsy itself was performed by Furuhata's colleague Naoki Kuwashima.\n\nAlthough a specific cause of death was not established, blood loss (at another location) was possible due to the lack of blood on the body and at the scene. Additionally, in some parts of the body life-threatening internal bleeding was found which could have been caused only by considerable force, such as kicking.\n\nOn the other hand, a Tokyo municipal coroner who had examined the body at the scene believed that Shimoyama's death was suicide. However, the internal bleeding observed in the remains of Shimoyama was also consistent with being hit by a train, and investigators would not have been able to observe blood at the scene because it was raining. As such, these as facts are not useful to support a murder theory.\n\nKeio University professor Nakadate Kyūhei believed that Shimoyama was alive when hit by the train, although he never saw the body. These theories stand in opposition to one another. On August 30, 1949, Furuhata, Nakadate, and Kyōsuke Komiya of Nagoya Medical School were called to testify before the Committee on Judicial Affairs of the Diet's House of Representatives, and in doing so brought the Diet and the world of forensic medicine into the controversy. In response to the committee's questions, Furuhata stated that \"Kuwashima still cannot officially declare this a murder or suicide. He has stated only that the body was dismembered after death. The investigation is still underway, and those who know nothing of it but make deductions anyway are unscientific and taking liberties.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22459326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22459326", "title": "Tamil folk culture", "text": "Tamil folk culture\n\nTamil folk culture refers to folk arts and crafts of the Tamil people. Folk arts and crafts are an integral part of the Tamil culture. Tamil folk arts include music i.e. Naattupurapaattu, dance styles, songs, games, crafts, herbal medicine, food, sculpture, costumes, stories, proverbs, and mythology.\n\nTamil folk art is characterized by its local, participatory, and open source character. Tamil folk culture often expresses village sensibilities, where most Tamils historically lived. It is often contrasted with Bharatanatyam, and Carnatic music.\n\n"}
{"id": "30494240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30494240", "title": "The Fremantle Society", "text": "The Fremantle Society\n\nThe Fremantle Society is a community-based culture and heritage advocacy group in Fremantle, Western Australia. It was formed in 1972 to prevent demolition of historic buildings in Fremantle and to assist in their development. As the significance of Fremantle's built heritage came to be more widely recognised and respected (by the City, and property owners), the focus of the Fremantle Society has evolved to include more of the cultural heritage of the area.\n\nVarious projects over time have highlighted Fremantle heritage, as well as advocating consideration of heritage in planning schemes.\n\nWhen the City's precinct system was established in the 1990s to provide interaction between the City and groups of residents, the Society became the \"umbrella\" precinct of the other eleven precincts. It has remained such, and is the only one not defined by geographical boundaries (the others are mostly representative of a suburb). The work of precinct groups can be supported by financial assistance from the City of up to $850 per year (as long as this is not used to support government election campaigning).\n\nThe overall nature of the Society's work is ongoing due to the inherent pressures from developers and others.\n\n\"Fighting for Fremantle\", a history of the Society by Ron and Dianne Davidson, was published by Fremantle Press in 2010. It was launched by the Premier of Western Australia, Colin Barnett, in Victoria Hall.\n\nThe Society has led campaigns to prevent the loss of many significant buildings in Fremantle; not all have been successful. Some examples include:\n\nOther projects have also been undertaken, such as the 1978–80 photographic survey of almost every building in Fremantle, and the Freopedia wikitown project.\n\n"}
{"id": "41703431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41703431", "title": "Timeline of women's sports", "text": "Timeline of women's sports\n\nThis is a timeline of women's sports.\n\n6th century BCE – The Heraean Games are the first recorded women's athletic competition, held in the stadium at Olympia.\n\n25–220 – The ancient game of Tsu Chu may have been played by women during the Han Dynasty; two female figures are depicted in frescoes dating from this period, playing Tsu Chu. There are a number of opinions about the dates, the earliest estimates are 5000 BCE.\n\n1493 – When Beatrice d'Este visited Venice, a regatta was held in which fifty peasant women competed.\n\n1567 – Mary, Queen of Scots is said to be the first woman to play golf in Scotland at Musselburgh Links.\n\n1745 – The first recorded women's cricket match took place in Surrey, England. By the second half of the eighteenth century, women's cricket matches played between local teams became common in the South East of England.\n\n1780 – Three days of horse racing at the track in Hempstead Plains, Long Island, included an event for women riders.\n\n1784 – Elizabeth Thible of France was the first women to fly in a hot air ballon.\n\n1790s – An annual women's association football competition was held in Mid-Lothian, Scotland.\n\n1811 – The first women's golf tournament is held at the Royal Musselburgh Golf Club, Scotland.\n\n1819 – Mms. Adolphe became the first woman to perform on a tightrope in the US in New York City.\n\n1825 – Madame Johnson took off in a hot air balloon in New York, landing in a New Jersey swamp.\n\n1842 – English rower Ann Glanville achieved national celebrity becoming known as the champion female rower of the world; her all-women crew often winning against the best male teams.\n\n1850 – A new style of women's dress, first introduced by Fanny Kemble, a British-born actress, began to be publicised by American Amelia Jenks Bloomer. Other women's rights leaders like Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony adopted the new style – loose-fitting pants worn under a skirt.\n\n1858 – The American Julia Holmes climbed Pike's Peak in Colorado.\n\n1863 – Association football governing bodies introduced standardized rules to prohibit violence on the pitch, making it more socially acceptable for women to play.\n\n1864 – The Park Place Croquet Club of Brooklyn organized with 25 members. Croquet is probably the first game played by both women and men in America.\n\n1866 – Vassar College in New York fielded the first two women's amateur baseball teams.\n\n1867 – The first ladies golf club was formed at St. Andrew's in Scotland. It gained 500 members by 1886.\n\n1867 – The Dolly Vardens from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, an all African-American baseball team, became the first women's professional sports team.\n\n1870 – An image of a women's double scull race made the cover of Harper's Weekly in 1870.\n\n1874 – Mary Ewing Outerbridge of Staten Island introduced tennis to the United States. She purchased tennis equipment in Bermuda (and had trouble getting it through customs) then used it to set up the first U.S. tennis court at the Staten Island Cricket and Baseball Club that spring.\n\n1875 – The \"Blondes\" and \"Brunettes\" played their first baseball match in Springfield, Illinois on September 11. Newspapers heralded the event as the \"first game of baseball ever played in public for gate money between feminine ball-tossers.\" \n\n1875 – Wellesley College in Massachusetts opened with a gymnasium for exercising and a lake for ice skating and the first rowing program in the U.S. for women.\n\n1876 – Nell Saunders defeated Rose Harland in the first United States women's boxing match, receiving a silver butter dish as her prize.\n\n1882 – At the YWCA in Boston, the first athletic games for women were held.\n\n1884 – Maud Watson, of England, won the first Ladies’ Singles title at Wimbledon.\n\n1887 – The American Ellen Hansell was crowned the first women's singles tennis champion at the U.S. Open.\n\n1889 – The first women's six-day bicycle race ended at Madison Square Garden in New York City.\n\n1889 – Bertha Townsend and Margarette Ballard, both of the United States, won the first women's doubles at the U.S. Open.\n\n1890s – Cricket was taught as a sport in several girls’ public schools in England including the Roedean School, Wycombe Abbey, the Royal School, and Clifton Ladies.\n\n1890 – The American Nellie Bly (Elizabeth Cochran Seaman) became the first woman to travel around the world alone – she did it in 72 days while a reporter for the New York World newspaper, returning on January 25.\n\n1892 – The first women's football match recorded by the Scottish Football Association took place in Glasgow, Scotland.\n\n1892 – Four young women started what became ZLAC Rowing Club in San Diego, California, which is thought today to be the world's oldest continuously existing all-women's rowing club.\n\n1893 – Newnham College Boat Club was formed in Cambridge, England.\n\n1893 – The Ladies' Golf Union, the governing body for women's and girls' amateur golf in Great Britain and Ireland, was founded in St Andrews, Scotland and the first British Ladies Amateur Golf Championship was won by Lady Margaret Scott at Royal Lytham & St Annes Golf Club.\n\n1894 – The most well-documented early European association fool women's team was founded by activist Nettie Honeyball in England and named the British Ladies' Football Club.\n\n1894 – A ladies golf tournament, the first in the United States, was held on the 7-hole Morristown, New Jersey course on October 17. Miss Hollard A. Ford won with a 97 scored on the double-7, 14 strokes under her nearest rival.\n\n1895 – In England, the first recorded game of association football between women took place.\n\n1895 – The American Annie Smith Peck was the first woman to reach the peak of the Matterhorn.\n\n1895 – A women's amateur golf championship, the first in the United States, was contested among 13 golfers at the Meadow Brook Club, Hempstead, New York, on November 9. The match was won by Mrs. Charles S. Brown with a 132 and the runner-up is Nellie Sargent.\n\n1895 – The first organized athletics meeting in the U.S. was generally recognized as the \"Field Day\" at Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, New York, on November 9. A group of \"nimble, supple and vivacious girls\" engaged in running and jumping events despite bad weather.\n\n1895 – The first women's softball team was formed at Chicago's West Division High School. They did not have a coach for competitive play until 1899.\n\n1896 – The first 6-day bicycle race for women started on January 6 at Madison Square Garden in New York City.\n\n1896 – The first women's intercollegiate basketball championship was played between Stanford and the University of California at Berkeley. Stanford won 2–1 on April 4 before a crowd of 700 women.\n\n1896 – Stamata Revithi, of Greece, ran the 40-kilometer marathon during the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece.\n\n1897 – Adine Masson, of France, became the first winner of the ladies singles at the French Open.\n\n1898 – Lizzie Arlington became the first woman to sign a professional baseball contract, appearing in her first professional game pitching for the Philadelphia Reserves.\n\n1900 – The 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris introduces women's events, offering golf, tennis, and croquet. Hélène de Pourtalès of Switzerland was the first woman to win a gold medal as part of a mixed sailing crew. Charlotte Cooper of Great Britain becomes the first individual female winner in an Olympic event. American Margaret Abbott won a gold medal in golf.\n\n1901 – Constance M.K, at Harvard University introduced field hockey to the women of the United States.\n\n1905 – Women from Britain and America first play an international golf match, with the British winning 6 matches to 1.\n\n1907 – Adine Masson and Yvonne de Pfoeffel, both of France, won the first women's doubles at the French Open.\n\n1909 – Alice Huyler Ramsey became the first woman to drive across the United States, her home country.\n\n1911 – Helene Britton was the first woman to own a major league team. She was the head director of the St. Louis Cardinals from 1911 to 1917.\n\n1912 – Fanny Durack, from Australia, became the first female Olympic swimming champion at the 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden, when she won the women's 100 m freestyle event. Compatriot, Mina Wylie finished second, becoming the first female swimming silver medallist. This was also the first olympics to include women's diving.\n\n1913 – Winifred McNair and Dora Boothby, both of Great Britain, won the first Wimbledon Championships ladies' doubles tournament.\n\n1914 – U.S. women's basketball rules changed to allow half-court play.\n\n1917 – Women's association football became popular on a large scale in the United Kingdom during the First World War, when employment in heavy industry spurred the growth of the game, much as it had done for men fifty years earlier. A team from England played a team from Ireland on Boxing Day 1917 in front of a crowd of 20,000 spectators. The following year, a knock-out competition called the Munitionettes Cup was held which attracted 30 teams. The final was played in front of a crowd of 22,000.\n\n1918 – Marie-Louise Ledru, a French athlete, has been credited as the first woman to race the now-defined marathon distance of 42.195 km. On September 29, 1918, Ledru reportedly completed the Tour de Paris Marathon in a time of 5 hours and 40 minutes and finished in 38th place. The International Association of Athletics Federations, the international governing body for the sport of athletics, however, recognizes Violet Piercy from England as having set the first women's world best in the marathon on October 3, 1926 with a time of 3:40:22.\n\n1920 – Dick, Kerr's Ladies association football team played in the first women's international matches in 1920, against a team from Paris, France, and also made up most of the England team against a Scottish Ladies XI in the same year, winning 22-0.\n\n1920 – The first American women's field hockey team, All-Philadelphia team, competed internationally. Their application to the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium was denied, but they played in an English tournament and lost both games.\n\n1921 – The 1921 Women's Olympiad, held in Monaco, was the first international women's sports event.\n\n1921 – Following the Football Association ban on women's teams on 5 December, the English Ladies' Football Association was formed. A total of 24 teams entered the first competition in the spring of 1922.\n\n1922 – The U.S. Field Hockey Association, the National Governing Body for field hockey in the United States, was established.\n\n1922 – 1922 Women's World Games, held in Paris, included the first regular track and field competitions for women.\n\n1922 – 1922 Women's Olympiad, held in Monaco.\n\n1922 – Margaret Molesworth, of Australia, won the first Ladies Singles at the Australian Open. Esna Boyd Robertson and Marjorie Mountain, both of Australia, won the first women's doubles.\n\n1923 – 1923 Women's Olympiad, held in Monaco.\n\n1923 – First British track and field Championships Championships, followed shortly thereafter by the first American track and field Championships.\n\n1924 – 1924 Women's Olympiad, held at Stamford Bridge, London.\n\n1926 – The Amateur Athletic Union sponsored the first-ever American national women's basketball championship.\n\n1926 – New York City native Gertrude Ederle became the first woman to swim the English Channel, which she did in fourteen hours, thirty-one minutes, beating the best time to date.\n\n1926 – Violet Piercy, an English long-distance runner, was recognized by the International Association of Athletics Federations as having set the first women's world best in the marathon on 3 October with a time of 3:40:22. Piercy was reported to have run unofficially, and her mark was set on the Polytechnic Marathon course between Windsor and London.\n\n1926 – 1926 Women's World Games, held in Gothenburg, Sweden\n\n1927 – The first Women's Boat Race between the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge was held on The Isis in Oxford, England.\n\n1927 – Women's Eights Head of the River Races began in London, England, one year after the first men's race.\n\n1928 – The 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam, Netherlands, included women's athletics and team gymnastics for the first time.\n\n1930 – Frenchwomen Marguerite Mareuse and Odette Siko became the first women to race at the 24 Hours of Le Mans, finishing 7th overall.\n\n1930 – 1930 Women's World Games, held in Prague, Czechoslovakia\n\n1931 – Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis banned women from professional baseball in America. He felt that he needed to after a seventeen-year-old pitcher Virne Beatrice “Jackie” Mitchell stroked out Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig in an exhibition game.\n\n1932 – Odette Siko became the first woman to achieve a class win at the 24 Hours of Le Mans.\n\n1932 – The American Babe Didrikson was named the Associate Press Woman Athlete of the Year for track and field after she scored enough points at the AAU national meet to win the team championship by herself. She scored thirty points, eight points more than the whole second place team earned.\n\n1934 – The inaugural international Women's Test cricket match took place between the England national women's cricket team and the Australia national women's cricket team in December. The following year, the New Zealand national women's cricket team played them.\n\n1934 – 1934 Women's World Games, held in London, United Kingdom\n\n1936 – The All American Red Heads Team, a barnstorming troupe similar to the Bloomer Girls, was formed. It is generally regarded as the first women's professional basketball team in America.\n\n1936 – Ruth Hughes Aarons was the first American that won the world singles table tennis championship.\n\n1937 – Grace Hudowalski was the ninth person and first woman to climb all 46 of the Adirondack High Peaks.\n\n1937 – The first association football \"Championship of Great Britain and the World\" was played between Dick, Kerr's Ladies F.C. and Edinburgh City Girls.\n\n1943 – The All-American Girls Softball League was formed under Chicago White Sox owner Philip Wrigley. The League gradually transformed into the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League.\n\n1949 – Marcenia Lyle Alberga was the first woman to play a full season in a professional men's baseball league in America.\n\n1949 – Sara Christian became the first female NASCAR driver, racing in the inaugural race at Charlotte Speedway, even though she had Bob Flock finish the race. In the second official race at Daytona Beach and Road Course, also in 1949, Christian was joined by Ethel Mobley and Louise Smith, with Mobley finishing ahead of the 3, at 11th.\n\n1949 – The inaugural women's Volleyball World Championship is held in the Soviet Union, three years after the inaugural men's event. It becomes the oldest and most important of all the international volleyball events organised by the FIVB.\n\n1950 – Kathryn Johnston, only twelve years old, was the first girl to play Little League Baseball. She played for the King's Dairy team in Corning, New York. Kathryn played at first base for the season, but then had to stop because of her age (she turned 13.) After that, a rule prohibited girls from playing in Little League; this was in force until 1974.\n\n1951 – Betty Chapman was the first African-American professional softball player.\n\n1952 – Patricia McCormick began bullfighting as a professional \"Matadora\" in January 1952, and was the first American to do so.\n\n1953 – The first international women's basketball championship is held, including teams (in order of final standing) from the US, Chile, France, Brazil, Paraguay, Argentina, Peru, Mexico, Switzerland, Paraguay and Cuba.\n\n1953 – Toni Stone, also known by her married name Marcenia Lyle Alberga, was the first of three women to play Negro league baseball, and thus the first woman to play as a regular on an American big-league professional baseball team.\n\n1954 – The first international women's rowing races were introduced at the European Rowing Championships.\n\n1954 – The All-American Girls Professional Baseball League played its last season.\n\n1955 – The first LPGA championship was held in America.\n\n1958 – Maria Teresa de Filippis of Italy was the first woman to compete in a European Grand Prix auto race.\n\n1959 – Arlene Pieper became the first woman to officially finish a marathon in the United States when she finished the Pikes Peak Marathon.\n\n1965 – The first international women's softball tournament was held in Melbourne, Australia, with the home country beating the US in the final, 1–0.\n\n1966 – The first intercollegiate women's basketball tournament was played in Pennsylvania.\n\n1966 – The American Roberta Louise \"Bobbi\" Gibb was the first woman to run the entire Boston Marathon.\n\n1969 – The English Women's Football Association was formed.\n\n1967 – The American Kathrine Switzer was the first woman to run the Boston Marathon as a numbered entry.\n\n1967 – The first woman's season champion in the World Cup of ski racing was Canada's Nancy Greene.\n\n1969 – Barbara Jo Rubin became the first female jockey to win a race in the United States.\n\n1970s – Italy became the first country with professional women's association football players on a part-time basis.\n\n1971 – The Football Association's ban on women's matches being played on members' grounds was lifted. In the same year, UEFA recommended that the women's game should be taken under the control of the national associations in each country.\n\n1971 – Cheryl White, an American, became the first black female jockey.\n\n1971 – The five-player, full-court game and the thirty-second shot clock was introduced to women's basketball in America.\n\n1971 – The Amateur Athletic Union ruled that \"certain women\" could take part in marathons, provided they either started their race 10 minutes before or after the men or on a different starting line. The different starting line requirement was dropped in 1972.\n\n1972 – The American President Richard Nixon signed Title IX of the Educational Amendment of 1972.\n\n1972 – The American Nina Kuscsik became the first woman to officially win the Boston Marathon.\n\n1973 – Billie Jean King won the \"Battle of the Sexes\" tennis match against Bobby Riggs in America.\n\n1973 – The US Open was the first Grand Slam tournament to offer equal prize money.\n\n1973 – Terry Williams Munz became the first woman in America awarded an athletic scholarship when she accepted a golf scholarship from the University of Miami.\n\n1974 – Angela Hernandez (also known as Angela Hernandez Gomez and just Angela), of Spain, won a case in the Spanish Supreme Court allowing women to be bullfighters in Spain; a prohibition against women doing so was put in place in Spain in 1908.\n\n1974 – The Women's Sports Foundation was created by Billie Jean King in America. It is \"a charitable educational organization dedicated to increasing the participation of girls and women in sports and fitness and creating an educated public that supports gender equity in sport.\"\n\n1974 – The first women's professional football league in America (WPFL) kicked off its inaugural season with seven teams.\n\n1974 – Lanny Moss was the first woman to manage a professional men's baseball team in America. She was hired by the minor league Portland Mavericks.\n\n1974 – Girls were formally permitted to play in the Little League Baseball program as result of a lawsuit brought on behalf of Frances Pescatore and Jenny Fulle.\n\n1975 – Junko Tabei of Japan became the first woman to reach the summit of Mount Everest.\n\n1976 – Krystyna Choynowski-Liskiewicz of Poland was the first woman to sail around the world solo, finishing on March 28.\n\n1976 – In the first Women's Professional Softball World Series Championship the Connecticut Falcons came out on top.\n\n1976 – Nadia Comăneci, at the time a 15-year-old Romanian gymnast, won three Olympic gold medals at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Canada, and was the first gymnast to be awarded a perfect score of 10 in an Olympic gymnastic event.\n\n1976 – Women's rowing was added to the Olympic Games programme at a distance of 1000 metres.\n\n1977 – The American Janet Guthrie was the first woman to compete in the Indianapolis 500 and the Daytona 500, and the first woman to lead a NASCAR Winston Cup Series (now Sprint Cup Series) event.\n\n1977 – The American Shirley Muldowney was the first woman to win a (in the first of three) NHRA Winston Drag Racing Series, in the Top Fuel category.\n\n1979 – At the Pan-American Games the United States Women's National Team won the gold medal.\n\n1979 – Crystal Fields, only eleven years old, was the first girl to win a baseball Pitch, Hit, and Run competition in America. She competed against all boys in the finals.\n\n1979 – At the second Ironman Triathlon held in Honolulu Hawaii, the American Lyn Lemaire placed sixth overall and became the first Ironwoman.\n\n1980 – The first woman to run a mile under four and a half minutes was the American Mary Decker.\n\n1981 – French rally driver Michèle Mouton became the first female driver to win overall at world championship event in rallying when she won the Rallye Sanremo.\n\n1982 – Kathy Rude became the first woman to win a professional road race in the United States when she won her class at the 24 Hours of Daytona and later became the first woman to set a lap record at Charlotte Motor Speedway.\n\n1982 – The National Collegiate Athletic Association began sponsoring women's basketball.\n\n1984 – The U.S. Women's softball team won the championship in the first Women's International Cup played in Los Angeles, beating China, 1–0.\n\n1984 – Joan Benoit of the U.S. won the first Olympic marathon for women.\n\n1985 – The distance for Women's rowing in the Olympic Games programme was extended to 2000 metres, the distance raced at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, and thereafter, consistent with men's rowing events at the Olympics.\n\n1985 – A year after finishing 2nd (and winning her class) Michèle Mouton became the first woman to win overall at the Pikes Peak International Hill Climb.\n\n1985 – The American Karyn Marshall became the first woman in history to clean and jerk over , with a 303 lb (137.5 kg) clean and jerk.\n\n1985 – The American Libby Riddles became the first woman to win the Iditarod (Mary Shields was the first woman to complete the race in 1974, finishing 23rd).\n\n1985 – The United States national soccer team was formed.\n\n1986 – The American Ann Bancroft was the first woman to reach the North Pole by foot and dogsled, and \"...she became the first known woman to cross the ice to the North Pole.\"\n\n1987 – Tania Aebi completed a solo circumnavigation of the globe in a 26-foot sailboat between the ages of 18 and 21, making her the first American woman to sail around the world.\n\n1987 – The first women's world championship in weightlifting was held; it was held in Daytona Beach, Florida and won by the American Karyn Marshall.\n\n1987 - The [American] National Girls and Women in Sports Day (NGWSD) is an annual day of observance held during the first week of February to acknowledge the accomplishments of female athletes, recognize the influence of sports participation for women and girls, and honor the progress and continuing struggle for equality for women in sports. \n\n1988 – The first Henley Women's Regatta took place at Henley-on-Thames in England.\n\n1988 – The American Shawna Robinson was the first woman to win a NASCAR-sanctioned stock car race, winning in the Charlotte/Daytona Dash Series at New Asheville Speedway.\n\n1989 – Japan became the first country to have a semi-professional women's football league, the L. League, which is still in existence today.\n\n1989 – Julie Croteau was the first woman to play NCAA baseball on first base for Division III St. Mary's (MD) College in America.\n\n1989 – Arantxa Sanchez, 17, became the first Spanish woman to win a Grand Slam with a 7–6, 3–6, 75 victory over Steffi Graf.\n\n1991 – All new sports applying to be included in the Olympic program were required to feature women's events.\n\n1991 – FIFA (the Fédération Internationale de Football Association) began the Women's World Cup, which was won by the US Women's Soccer Team.\n\n1992 – Major League Baseball lifted the ban on the signing of women to contracts, a ban that had existed since 1952.\n\n1992 – Manon Rheaume signed a contract with the Tampa Bay Lightning of the NHL, appearing in preseason exhibition games in 1992 and 1993. She spent 5 years in professional minor leagues, playing for a total of seven teams and appearing in 24 games. She also played on the Canada's Women's Ice Hockey Team, winning Gold Medals at the IIHF Women's World Championship in 1992 and 1994, and the Silver Medal at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan.\n\n1993 – Sherry Davies became the first woman public address announcer in major league baseball in America, working for the San Francisco Giants.\n\n1993 – USA Boxing officially lifted its ban on women's boxing in 1993.\n\n1993 – The American Julie Krone became the first female jockey to win a Triple Crown race when she won the Belmont Stakes.\n\n1995 – Ila Borders was the first woman to pitch in a men's collegiate baseball game in America.\n\n1996 – Women's soccer and women's softball became medal sports at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta for the first time; both events were won by US teams.\n\n1996 – Spalding Sports introduced the first baseball glove specifically designed to fit a woman's hand.\n\n1997 – The WNBA began in America.\n\n1999 – Carolina Morace became the first female coach of a men's professional soccer team in Italy, signing a 2-year contract in June.\n\n1999 – Tori Murden became the first woman and the first American to row solo across the Atlantic Ocean.\n\n2000 – Sandra Farmand of Germany won the World Cup snowboard women's cross race, beating France's Marjorie Ray and Austria's Manuela Riegler.\n\n2000 – The Aggressive Skaters Association created the so-called \"Fabiola Rule\", after Fabiola da Silva, which allowed women to compete in the formerly all-male vert competition.\n\n2001 – Jutta Kleinschmidt of Germany became the first woman to win the Paris–Dakar Rally.\n\n2004 – Lilian Bryner of Switzerland became the first woman to win overall in an international 24-hour auto race when she helped to win the Spa 24 Hours.\n\n2005 – The American Danica Patrick was the first woman to lead the Indianapolis 500.\n\n2005 – The organizers of the New York City Marathon announced they would be rewarding the female champion $130,000, that is $30,000 more than its male winner received. This may be the first time a sporting event ever paid more to a female than a male in the same competition. It is also the largest first prize for any marathon.\n\n2006 – Julie Wafaei of Canada became the first woman to row across the Atlantic Ocean from mainland to mainland in March.\n\n2007 – A year following the French Open, the Wimbledon Championships was the last of the Grand Slam tournament to offer equal prize money.\n\n2008 – The American Danica Patrick was the first woman to win an IndyCar Series by winning the 2008 Indy Japan 300.\n\n2009 – Sarah Outen, from Britain, became the first woman to row alone across the Indian Ocean.\n\n2010 – Roz Savage, from England, became the first woman to row solo across the Pacific Ocean.\n\n2010 – The American Kelly Kulick won the 2010 PBA Tournament of Champions, where she was the first-ever female competitor in the field. This also made her the first woman to win any Professional Bowlers Association Tour event that was also open to men.\n\n2011 – Leena Gade became the first female race engineer to win at 24 Hours of Le Mans.\n\n2012 – The 2012 Summer Olympics in London were the first Games in which women competed in all sports in the program, and every participating country included female athletes. The U.S. Olympic team had more women than men for the first time — 269 female athletes to 261 men.\n\n2012 - Felicity Aston, of Britain, became the first person to ski alone across the Antarctic land-mass using only personal muscle power, as well as the first woman to cross the Antarctic land-mass alone. \n\n2012 - The World Rugby launched the competition now known as the World Rugby Women's Sevens Series, analogous to the men's World Rugby Sevens Series.\n\n2013 – The American Danica Patrick was the first woman to win a NASCAR Monster Energy Cup Series pole position for the Daytona 500, a week later was the first woman to lead the Daytona 500.\n\n2013 – On her fifth attempt and at age 64, the American Diana Nyad was the first person confirmed to swim from Cuba to Florida without the protection of a shark cage, swimming from Havana to Key West.\n\n2013 – Emily Bell became the first woman to kayak the length of Britain.\n\n2014 – At the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, Torah Bright, from Australia, became the first woman to qualify for three snowboard disciplines; specifically snowboard cross, halfpipe and slopestyle. The first women competed in ski jumping at the Olympics.\n\n2014 – Alia Atkinson, from Jamaica, won the 100m breaststroke at the 2014 Short Course World Championships in Doha, becoming the first black woman to win a world swimming title.\n\n2014 – Abbey Holmes became the first woman to kick 100 goals in one regular season of Australian Rules football.\n\n2014 – Annabel Anderson, from New Zealand, became the first woman to cross Cook Strait standing on a paddleboard.\n\n2014 – Peta Searle became the first woman appointed as a development coach in the Australian Football League when she was chosen by St Kilda as a development coach.\n\n2014 – 16-year-old Katie Ormerod, from Britain, became the first female snowboarder to land a backside double cork 1080.\n\n2014 – Shelby Osborne became the first female defensive back in American football when she was drafted by Campbellsville University in Kentucky.\n\n2014 – Amélie Mauresmo, from France, became the first woman to coach a top male tennis player (specifically, Andy Murray.) \n\n2014 – Gabrielle Augustine pitched the final two innings for Hunter's Inn, thus becoming the first woman to play in the Glenwood Baseball League, which is the longest-running amateur baseball league in the United States, founded in 1920.\n\n2014 – Tara Remington from New Zealand and Angela Madsen from California became the first female pair of rowers to cross the Pacific Ocean from California to Hawaii; this trip also made Angela Madsen the first paraplegic to row from California to Hawaii.\n\n2014 – Michele A. Roberts was elected as the new Executive Director of the National Basketball Players Association, thus making her the first woman to be elected to the highest position of a major sport's players association within the United States.\n\n2014 – Corinne Diacre became the first woman to coach a men's professional soccer team (Clermont Foot) in a competitive match in France on August 4, 2014, her 40th birthday.\n\n2014 – Andrea Skews became the first woman to complete the Birdsville Track run from Marree, South Australia, to Birdsville, Queensland.\n\n2014 – Nicola Scaife, from Australia, won the first women's hot air balloon world championship, which was held in Poland.\n\n2014 – Cecilia Brækhus, from Norway, became the first Norwegian and the first woman to hold all major world championship titles in her weight division (welterweight) in boxing.\n\n2014 – Kelly Xu, of Santa Monica, Calif., won the girls 7–9 division in the Drive, Chip and Putt Championship, thus becoming the first female champion ever crowned at Augusta National Golf Club.\n\n2014 – After an announcement on May 31, women competed in medieval combat as a sport for the first time at the International Medieval Combat Federation (IMCF) world championship. American Amy Graham and the women's melee team USA Valkyries (Sandra Lagnese, Karen Prentice, Kati Takacs, Suzanne Lyons Elleraas) won gold medals.\n\n2015 – Mieko Nagaoka, a 100-year-old Japanese woman, became the first centenarian to complete a 1500m swim in a 25-meter pool; specifically, she completed 30 laps of the pool in 1 hour, 15 minutes, 54 seconds, in a masters event in Matsuyama, Japan.\n\n2015 – The first African-Americans to place in the top three spots at the 100 yard freestyle in any Women's Division I NCAA Swimming Championship were: Simone Manuel, Lia Neal, and Natalie Hinds in that order.\n\n2015 – Saina Nehwal became the first Indian women's player to be World No.1 in badminton.\n\n2015 – Diane Reid became the first Canadian woman to be appointed as skipper in the world's longest ocean race, the Clipper Round the World Yacht Race. In the same race, Wendy Tuck became the first Australian woman to be appointed as skipper.\n\n2015 – Alia Al Shamsi became the first Emirati female swimmer to represent the country's national team, which she did at the Arab Age Group Swimming Championships.\n\n2015 – The 70th Women's Boat Race was held on The Championship Course in London, England on the same day as the traditional male event for the first time on April 11.\n\n2015 – The World Series of Poker Circuit had its first female main event champion when the American Michelle Chin won the Horseshoe Council Bluffs $1,675 Main Event.\n\n2015 – Kieran Ballard-Tremeer, from South Africa, became the first woman to swim around the Palm Jumeirah; she completed the 14.5 km-distance swim around it in a time of four hours and 28 minutes, swimming inside the breakwater of Palm Jumeirah.\n\n2015 – The American McKenna Haase became the first woman to win a feature Sprint Car race at Knoxville Raceway.\n\n2015 – The first American all-girls national baseball tournament was held.\n\n2015 – The first known all-girls tackle football league in America, the Utah Girls Tackle Football League, was formed.\n\n2015 – Melissa Mayeux of France became the first female baseball player to be added to Major League Baseball's international registration list.\n\n2015 – New Zealand native Kim Chambers became the first woman to swim the 30-mile stretch between the Farallon Islands and San Francisco.\n\n2015 – Tickets for the Women's Singles final of the 2015 US Open sell out faster than the Men's final, a first in tournament history.\n\n2015 – Sarah Taylor, from England, became the first woman to play men's grade cricket in Australia, when she appeared as wicketkeeper for Northern Districts against Port Adelaide at Salisbury Oval in South Australia's premier men's competition.\n\n2015 – Afghanistan held its first marathon; among those who ran the entire marathon was one woman, Zainab, age 25, who thus became the first Afghan woman to run in a marathon within her own country.\n\n2015 – Michelle Payne, from Australia, became the first female jockey to win the Melbourne Cup.\n\n2015 – Michelle Rowe, from the United Kingdom, became the first woman to walk the length of Malawi.\n\n2015 - The Raleigh Flyers of the American Ultimate Disc League signed the first ever female professional ultimate frisbee player, Jessi Jones, to play in their game against the Nashville Nightwatch. Jones, who was a team USA U-23 player in 2013, was signed as part of \"Women's Ultimate Day\".\n\n2016 – Kaillie Humphries, from Canada, became the first woman to drive an all-female team against men in a four-person World Cup bobsled race on January 9; her teammates were Cynthia Appiah, Genevieve Thibault and Melissa Lotholz.\n\n2016 – Chan Yuen-ting of Hong Kong became the first woman to coach a men's professional association football (soccer) team to the championship of a nation's top league. The following year, she became the first woman to coach a male football (soccer) club in a top-flight continental competition when she managed a team against Guangzhou Evergrande in the AFC Champions League.\n\n2017 - In the 2017 season, Jesse Shofner was selected to the roster for the Nashville Nightwatch, which made her the first female player to make a full season American Ultimate Disc League roster. She scored two goals in the Nashville Nightwatch's first game of the 2017 season, making her the first woman to do so in any American Ultimate Disc League game.\n\n2017 - Ana Carrasco of Spain became the first woman to win an individual world championship motorcycle race, when she won the FIM Supersport 300 World Championship.\n\n2017 - Spain's Alhambra Nievas and Ireland's Joy Neville become the first and second women referees to take charge of men's rugby union internationals when they refereed matches in the Rugby Europe Conference. \n\n2018 - The first all-female group crossed Antarctica using muscle power alone; they were all British.\n\n2018 - Katie Sarah, from Australia, became the first woman to summit the highest mountain on every continent and the seven highest volcanic peaks, an accomplishment known as the ‘Seven-Seven’.\n\n2018 - Terra Roam of Australia became the first woman to walk solo and unsupported around Australia.\n\n2018 - Wendy Tuck of Australia became the first female skipper to win the Clipper Round the World Yacht Race (or any Round the World yacht race).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21915713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21915713", "title": "Transfer of the Portuguese Court to Brazil", "text": "Transfer of the Portuguese Court to Brazil\n\nThe transfer of the Portuguese Court to Brazil occurred with the strategic retreat of Queen Maria I of Portugal, Prince Regent John, also referred to as Dom João or Dom João VI, and the Braganza royal family and its court of nearly 15,000 people from Lisbon on November 29, 1807. The Braganza royal family departed for the Portuguese colony of Brazil just days before Napoleonic forces invaded Lisbon on December 1. The Portuguese crown remained in Brazil from 1808 until the Liberal Revolution of 1820 led to the return of John VI of Portugal on April 26, 1821. For thirteen years, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, functioned as the capital of the Kingdom of Portugal in what some historians call a \"metropolitan reversal\", i.e., a colony exercising governance over the entirety of the (in this case Portuguese) empire. The period in which the court was located in Rio brought significant changes to the city and its residents, and can be interpreted through several perspectives. It had profound impacts on Brazilian society, economics, infrastructure, and politics. The transfer of the king and the royal court \"represented the first step toward Brazilian independence, since the king immediately opened the ports of Brazil to foreign shipping and turned the colonial capital into the seat of government.\"\n\nIn 1807, at the outset of the Peninsular War, Napoleonic forces invaded Portugal due to the Portuguese alliance with Great Britain. The prince regent of Portugal at the time, John VI, had formally governed the country on behalf of Maria I of Portugal since 1799. Anticipating the invasion of Napoleon's army, John VI ordered the transfer of the Portuguese royal court to Brazil before he could be deposed. Setting sail for Brazil on November 29, the royal party navigated under the protection of the British Royal Navy, and eight ships of the line, five frigates, and four smaller vessels of the Portuguese Navy, under the command of Admiral Sir Sidney Smith. On December 5, almost halfway between Lisbon and Madeira, Sidney Smith, along with Britain's envoy to Lisbon, Lord Strangford, returned to Europe with part of the British flotilla. Graham Moore, a British sailor and career officer in the Royal Navy, continued escorting the Portuguese royal family to Brazil with the ships \"Marlborough\", \"London\", \"Bedford\", and \"Monarch\".\n\nOn January 22, 1808, John and his court arrived in Salvador, Brazil. There, Prince John signed the \"Abertura dos Portos\" law which allowed commerce between Brazil and \"friendly nations.\" This was particularly beneficial for Great Britain and can be seen as one of many ways Prince John found to reward the British Empire for their assistance. This new law, however, broke the colonial pact that had permitted Brazil to maintain direct commercial relations with Portugal only. This transformed the Brazilian economy, and subsequently, its demographics and society. Secret negotiations at London in 1807 by Portuguese ambassador Domingos António de Sousa Coutinho guaranteed British military protection in exchange for British access to Brazil's ports and to Madeira as a naval base. Coutinho's secret negotiations paved the way for Prince John's law to come to fruition in 1808. Later on, in attempts to modernize the economy and diversify the production of the colony, Dom João allowed for the establishment of manufacturing industries in 1808 through the signing of the \"Alvará de Liberdade para as Indústrias\". This meant that Brazil would no longer only be an agricultural producer. In this decree, Dom João said that in an attempt to promote national wealth and recognize that manufacturing, industrial labor, and multiplication of labor promote means of subsistence for subjects, Brazil should heavily invest in those sectors effective immediately. He abolished any prohibition to industrial development. This attracted investment from Great Britain and, in a way, did expand the demand for labor.\n\nWhen the Portuguese court arrived in Rio de Janeiro on March 7, 1808, Brazil was very sparsely populated, with a little over 3 million inhabitants. Around one-third of the colony’s population consisted of enslaved peoples, most having been captured and shipped from Africa. The indigenous population at the time was of around 800,000 people, having been dramatically reduced and isolated during the first 300 years of exploration and colonization. Population density was concentrated along the Atlantic coastline. Rio de Janeiro, around the start of the 19th century, was experiencing a sizeable population boom. Over the 18th century, the population had increased tenfold due to the discovery of gold and diamonds and the migration of 800,000 individuals that ensued. In addition, it is estimated that 2 million enslaved Africans were brought to Brazil to work in mines and power the sugar industry. Brazilians were illiterate, poor, and lacking several basic needs, including medical care and public health services. Only 2.5% of free men were literate. These changes made the city crammed, the population was displeased, and rudimentary colonial administrations were not enough to ensure progress. \n\nThe then small city of Rio de Janeiro was not prepared to welcome the Portuguese court. While the royal family was greeted with cheer and festivities that lasted for weeks, 10,000 houses were branded with the letters ‘PR’ standing for \"príncipe regente\" or prince regent, which meant that the homeowners had to evacuate to allow for the nobility to move in. In an almost silent form of protest, Brazilians quickly gave another meaning to the letters. They started to read ‘PR’ as \"ponha-se na rua\", a phrase that directly translates into to “put yourselves out on the street.” Another example of implicit forms of protest or negative reactions of the relocation of the court was the intensified presence of caricaturized depictions of Dom João and Carlota. Making its way through popular discourse and taking stereotypical exaggerations that built up Brazilian folklore, Dom João was a weak, gluttonous, unprepared man who cowardly fled Portugal, where he now was to live a lazy life, unaware of the needs of Brazilians. Carlota, portrayed as a strong, rude, and non-submissive woman to further attack the image of Dom João as an emasculated ruler, had harsh facial features, was moody, and was very open about her infidelity to her husband and lack of love for the colony.\n\nThe relocation of the administrative core of the Portuguese Empire to Brazil had several political ramifications. Dom João and the court found themselves charged with the responsibility to please several different groups of people at the same time. For starters, they had to please the 15,000 people who they had somewhat forced to move to Brazil with them. Then, they had to please their hosts: the Brazilians and Portuguese people who had established themselves in Brazil prior to 1808. The British Empire, a long-term ally of the Portuguese and who had played a vital role in the relocation of the court saw benefits in trade with this new administration (refer to the ‘Economic Changes’ sub-section for more details). Furthermore, Austrians, a new ally of the Portuguese Empire were satisfied with the marital connections made with Portugal. Princess Maria Leopoldina of Austria was promised to Dom Pedro I (Dom João VI’s heir) in 1817 and moved to Brazil as a youth.\n\nBetween 1808 and 1821, Dom João VI, serving as prince regent until 1818 and then as king from 1818 onwards, granted 145 nobility titles. During the time that the court was located in Brazil, the Portuguese royal family collectively granted more titles of nobility than it had in its past 300 years of existence in Portugal. Much can be said about the motivations for ennobling so many people, and these titles had consequences to the political scene of Brazil, including the systematic isolation of Brazilians from politics. Between 1811 and 1821, a vast majority of noble titles were granted to those who had travelled with the court in 1807 or had fought the French in Portugal and somehow had made their way to Brazil. As an additional way to thank Great Britain for their efforts to protect the Portuguese Empire and their expanding economic relationship with the colony, titles of nobility were also given to British individuals. Furthermore, the titles of nobilityserved as a means to consolidate the rule of the Joanine court and confirm the power status of the monarchy in the so-called ‘New World.’ When Dom João elevated the status of Brazil from colony to a co-kingdom as the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves to participate in the Congress of Vienna away from Europe, there was a sharp increase in the amount of titles granted. Not only did this change affect nobility titles, it also increased the power of the Portuguese in Brazilian affairs. Rio became an important center for world trade and grew immensely, having its demographics changed incessantly. The monarchy, as expected, favored the Portuguese to be in command of political offices, and with the creation of new government positions, departments, and military branches, almost every official was Portuguese.\n\nOut of all 145 nobility titles granted, only six were granted to Brazilians. Consistently, Brazilians were given the lowest royal title, that of barão or baron. To somewhat make up for the fact that Portuguese not only got more titles but also got more prestigious titles that made them more influential with the nobility, Brazilians were also granted land and seats in the Conselho da Fazenda. These were surreptitious ways to keep Brazilians content with the monarchy and appeasing that population without jeopardizing Portuguese high society, both in Brazil and in Portugal. The first nobility title granted to a Brazilian was in 1812 to the Baroness of São Salvador de Campos dos Goytacazes. Out of the 26 titles of nobility granted in 1818, only three Brazilian men were graced: José Egídio Álvares de Almeida, Pedro Dias Paes Leme, and Paulo Fernandes Carneiro Viana. So many nobility titles were granted in 1818 most likely because that was when Dom João became de facto king. 17 nobility titles were granted on the day Dom João was crowned. As it can be expected, these titles did not benefit Brazilians much and did not create tight bonds between Brazilians and the new nobility. It was a reality unknown to many, even the wealthiest Brazilians. An argument can be made of this: nobility titles were made exclusively for Europeans to preserve the contrast in power and superiority of Europeans in Brazil. By granting titles to Portuguese individuals and those with close ties with Portugal, the court guaranteed the financial support to sustain themselves halfway across the Atlantic.\n\nWhen talking about the intensification of economic progress, it is important to note that this means an increase in the demand for slave labor. With the end of the colonial pact, the coffee industry boomed and the sugar industry continued to flourish. Now, being able to manufacture goods, the naval and steel industries started to develop. The arrival of enslaved individuals increased dramatically during the period that the court was in Brazil and then during the decade following their absence, with the arrival of approximately 328,000 enslaved individuals to Brazil. This drastically changed the demographics of Brazil and of Rio, where most of these enslaved individuals would arrive and remain at. It is estimated that the enslaved population in Rio, at its height, was more than half of the total population. After the successful slave revolution that took place in Haiti a few years before, the court started to worry the small elites regarding potential rebellion and revolution. This led to the creation of the Military Division of the \"Guarda Real de Polícia\", or Royal Police Guard, in charge of urban policing that before the arrival of the royal family consisted of informal guards, watchmen, and sentinels. This further isolated and oppressed enslaved peoples and was the beginning of a phenomenon that proceeded in the 19th and 20th centuries of the criminalization of poverty. It reemphasized racial discrimination on an official level and associated disorder with lack of money and social ascension. This is also when Dom João VI decreed the establishment of a mounted guard. In addition, the penal system was used to take control of lower classes and minor infractions or public disorder, including “disrespecting curfew, playing games of luck, drinking alcohol and begging” could be punishable by law and prison. Furthermore, while attempts to “civilize” the city were made, it also meant that the biggest difference between the old court and the one in Brazil was that half of it now consisted of enslaved peoples. Slavery was not legal in Portugal but allowed in the New World, and continued for several decades even after Brazil achieved independence from Portugal.\n\nImperial relocation also meant the stratification of hierarchy. Those who were already rich, usually because of their connections to nobility, got richer (usually for the same reasons they had been rich in the first place) and the poorer got even poorer, now having to compete for resources, services, and physical space. With the Portuguese government now in Brazil, Portuguese immigration retention increased and this led to further disapproval of Cariocas (the term given to those native to the city of Rio de Janeiro). While the court and nobility wanted to portray itself as open to hearing the critiques and desires of the Brazilian population, only a select few could attend audiences with Dom João. He implemented the ceremony of \"beija-mão\", a daily ritual where subjects got the chance to go to the royal residence, kiss the king’s hand, and express their grievances. This practice to supposedly stay in touch with common people allowed for the social elites to voice their agendas, including white men, the nobility, and the clergy.\n\nOn December 16, 1815, John created the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves (\"Reino Unido de Portugal, Brasil e Algarves\"), elevating Brazil to the same rank as Portugal and increasing the administrative independence of Brazil. Brazilian representatives were elected to the Portuguese Constitutional Courts (\"Cortes Constitucionais Portuguesas\"). In 1815, in the aftermath of Napoleon's defeat and the meeting of the Congress of Vienna convened to restore European political arrangements, the Portuguese monarch declared Brazil a co-equal to Portugal to increase Portugal's bargaining power. In 1816, with the death of Queen Maria, Prince John became king of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves. After several delays, the ceremony of his acclamation took place in Rio de Janeiro in 1818.\n\nBeyond having to go through infrastructural expansion to accommodate for the arrival of 15,000 people, Rio continued to be modified and upgraded in the early stages of the transferring of the court. The city lacked basic sanitation and structured sewer systems. There were very few roads. The goal was to “construct an ideal city; a city in which both mundane and monumental architecture, together with its residents’ social and cultural practices projected an unequivocally powerful and virtuous image of royal authority and government.” The city had to reflect the flourishing of the empire and institutions like public libraries, botanic gardens, opera house, palaces and government buildings were created. Rio was to be modern and secure. Architecture physically changed to reflect modern times.\n\nFurthermore, before the arrival of the royal family and court, Brazil consisted of very disconnected conglomerates of people. Vast amounts of empty land and dense tropical forest separated cities like Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Salvador, Pernambuco, Rio Grande, and Porto Alegre. Needing to create a unified way to control the state and effectively manage territory, the government put in efforts to connect city centers through road development. The monarchy also encouraged internal trade. The isolation of cities was once used by the Portuguese Empire to maintain Brazilians subordinate and unable to organize against the crown. Now, having to manage the territory directly, that was no longer useful. It goes without saying that all of these infrastructural developments came at the cost of slaves’ hard work and lives. It is estimated that between 1808 and 1822, “Rio’s slave population increased by 200 percent. As a consequence, remaking Rio de Janeiro into the court meant reconciling the larger quest to metropolitanize the city with slavery and with the African and African-Brazilian residents who made up the majority of its population.”\n\nAmong the important measures taken by John VI (in attempts to Europeanize the country) were creating incentives for commerce and industry, allowing newspapers and books to be printed, even though the \"Imprensa Régia\", Brazil's first printing press was highly regulated by the government, establishing two medical schools, establishing military academies, and creating the first Bank of Brazil (\"Banco do Brasil\"). In Rio de Janeiro, he also established a powder factory, a botanical garden, an art academy, and an opera house. All these measures advanced Brazil's independence from Portugal. Less beneficial were the crown's policies continuing the African slave trade, attacks on indigenous peoples, and land grants to court favorites. He blocked the entry of ideas of political independence expressed in the U.S. and the former Spanish American colonies, now independent republics. Britain's influence in Brazil increased, with favorable terms of trade, but also extraterritoriality for British merchants.\n\nOwing to the absence of the king and the economic independence of Brazil, Portugal entered a severe political crisis that obliged John VI and the royal family to return to Portugal on April 25, 1821, otherwise he risked loss of his Portuguese throne. The heir of John VI, Pedro I, remained in Brazil. The Portuguese \"Cortes\" demanded that Brazil return to its former status as a colony and the return of the heir to Portugal. Prince Pedro, influenced by the Rio de Janeiro Municipal Senate (\"Senado da Câmara\"), refused to return to Portugal during the \"Dia do Fico\" (January 9, 1822). Brazil declared its independence on September 7, 1822, forming the Empire of Brazil, ending 322 years of colonial dominance of Portugal over Brazil. Pedro was crowned the first emperor in Rio de Janeiro on October 12, 1822, taking the name Dom Pedro I.\n\nThe Portuguese court’s tenure in Rio de Janeiro created the conditions which led to Brazil’s independence. With the court’s arrival, Rio de Janeiro saw an immediate increase in its population. This, coupled with increases in trade and subsequent immigration, transformed the city into a major economic center in the New World. In 1815, this resulted in Brazil being declared a co-kingdom with Portugal, raising it from its former colonial status. This was an embodiment of Brazil’s growing independence from Portugal, a growth that led to the creation of a written constitution for Brazil in 1820, and intensified after the royal family’s return to Europe a year later.\n\nThe relocation of the Portuguese nobility and administrative core to Brazil in 1808 had tremendous ramifications and resulted in a multi-faceted approach to change. Brazilian politics were initiated and affected, society and demographics were altered, the economy developed, and the city of Rio de Janeiro physically changed. The impact was felt in different ways and degrees by different sections of the population: nobility, wealthy families, Brazilians, indigenous peoples, and enslaved Africans or Afro-Brazilians. The stability and prosperity of the Brazilian state, resulting from the royal court’s presence, allowed for it to declare independence from Portugal without the violence and destabilization characteristic of similar movements in neighboring countries. This was in part because its burgeoning independent identity had had an effect on Pedro, King John’s oldest son and first emperor of Brazil. Pedro was nine years old when the family fled Portugal, meaning he was raised in Rio de Janeiro. Coming of age in Brazil rather than Portugal led to Pedro identifying as a Brazilian, a sentiment which influenced his defiance of the Cortes in 1821. Due to his position as heir of the Portuguese crown, Pedro was able to prevent any serious efforts on the part of the Portuguese to retake Brazil. The relatively smooth transition into independence, along with the economic and cultural strides made since the royal court’s first arrival, resulted in a thriving time for the young nation. Throughout the royal court’s stay in Rio de Janeiro and during the early part of its independence, Brazil saw a huge influx of immigrants and imported slaves. The immigrants were largely young Portuguese, the majority of which elected to stay in Brazil permanently, rather than return to Portugal. This migration also mirrored a period of political upheaval in Portugal, wherein the loss of Brazil started a series of revolts. The retention of immigrants demonstrated the newfound economic opportunities of the newly independent Brazil, while waves of anti-Portuguese sentiment among the masses of Rio de Janeiro revealed the nation’s lingering resentment towards its former rulers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2106955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2106955", "title": "Tuatha Taiden", "text": "Tuatha Taiden\n\nThe Tuatha Taiden were a branch of the Fir Ol nEchmacht, one of the ancient peoples of Ireland.\n\nThe kingdom of Tuatha Taiden extended from Fidach eastwards to and across the Shannon towards Tara, and was probably co-extensive with Uí Maine at its greatest extent.\n\n"}
{"id": "27093859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27093859", "title": "Victor A. Prather Award", "text": "Victor A. Prather Award\n\nThe Victor A. Prather Award is an award established by the American Astronautical Society \"to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans.\" It is awarded to \"researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space.\"\n\nThe award is in honor of Victor A. Prather, a Naval flight surgeon.\n\n"}
{"id": "40949353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949353", "title": "Workers' self-management", "text": "Workers' self-management\n\nWorkers' self-management (also referred to as self-management, labor management, autogestión, workers' control, industrial democracy, democratic management, and worker cooperative) is a form of organizational management based on self-directed work processes on the part of an organization's workforce. Self-management is a characteristic of many forms of socialism, with proposals for self-management having appeared many times throughout the history of the socialist movement, advocated variously by market socialists, communists, and anarchists.\n\nThere are many variations of self-management. In some variants, all the worker-members manage the enterprise directly through assemblies; in other forms, workers exercise management functions indirectly through the election of specialist managers. Self-management may include worker supervision and oversight of an organization by elected bodies, the election of specialized managers, or self-directed management without any specialized managers as such. The goals of self-management are to improve performance by granting workers greater autonomy in their day-to-day operations, boosting morale, reducing alienation, and when paired with employee ownership, eliminating exploitation.\n\nAn enterprise that is self-managed is referred to as a \"labour-managed firm\". Self-management refers to control rights within a productive organization, being distinct from the questions of ownership and what economic system the organization operates under. Self-management of an organization may coincide with employee ownership of that organization, but self-management can also exist in the context of organizations under public ownership, and to a limited extent within private companies in the form of co-determination and worker representation on the board of directors.\n\nAn economic system consisting of self-managed enterprises is sometimes referred to as a \"participatory economy\", \"self-managed economy\", or \"cooperative economy\". This economic model is a major version of market socialism and decentralized planned economy, stemming from the notion that people should be able to participate in making the decisions that affect their well-being. The major proponents of self-managed market socialism in the 20th century include the economists Benjamin Ward, Jaroslav Vanek, and Branko Horvat. The Ward-Vanek model of self-management involves the diffusion of entrepreneurial roles amongst all the partners of the enterprise.\n\nBranko Horvat notes that participation is not simply more desirable but also more economically viable than traditional hierarchical and authoritarian management as demonstrated by econometric measurements, which indicate an increase in efficiency with greater participation in decision-making. According to Horvat, these developments are moving the world toward a self-governing socialistic mode of organization.\n\nIn the economic theory of self-management, workers are no longer employees but partners in the administration of their enterprise. Management theories in favor of greater self-management and self-directed activity cite the importance of autonomy for productivity in the firm, and economists in favor of self-management argue that cooperatives are more efficient than centrally-managed firms because every worker receives a portion of the profit, thereby directly tying their productivity to their level of compensation.\n\nHistorical economic figures who supported cooperatives and self-management of some kind include the anarchist Pierre Joseph Proudhon, classical economist John Stuart Mill, and the neoclassical economist Alfred Marshall. Contemporary proponents of self-management include the American Marxist economist Richard D. Wolff and anarchist philosopher Noam Chomsky.\n\nThe theory of the labor manager firm explains the behavior, performance and nature of self-managed organizational forms. Although self-managed (or labor-managed) firms can coincide with worker ownership (employee ownership), the two are distinct concepts, and one need not imply the other. According to traditional neoclassical economic theory, in a competitive market economy, ownership of capital assets by labor (the workforce of a given firm) should have no significant impact on firm performance.\n\nThe classical liberal philosopher John Stuart Mill believed that worker-run and owned cooperatives would eventually displace traditional capitalist (capital-managed) firms in the competitive market economy due to their superior efficiency and stronger incentive structure. While both Mill and Karl Marx thought that democratic worker management would be more efficient in the long run compared with hierarchical management, Marx was not hopeful about the prospects of labor-managed and owned firms as a means to displace traditional capitalist firms in the market economy. In Western market economies, despite their advantages in efficiency, the labor-managed firm is comparatively rare.\n\nBenjamin Ward critiqued the labor managed firm's objective function. According to Ward, the labor-managed firm strives to maximize net income for all its members, as contrasted with the traditional capitalist firms' objective function of maximizing profit for external owners. The objective function of the labor managed firm creates an incentive to limit employment in order to boost the net income of the firm's existing members. An economy consisting of labor-managed firms would thus have a tendency to under-utilize labor and tend toward high rates of unemployment.\n\nIn the 19th century, the idea of a self-managed economy was first fully articulated by the anarchist philosopher and economist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon. This economic model was called \"mutualism\" to highlight the mutual relationship among individuals in this system (in contrast to the \"parasitism\" of capitalist society) and involved cooperatives operating in a free-market economy.\n\nThe classical liberal philosopher John Stuart Mill argued worker-run cooperatives would eventually displace traditional capitalist (capital-managed) firms in the competitive market economy due to their superior efficiency.\n\nKarl Marx championed the idea of a \"free association of producers\" as a characteristic of communist society, where self-management processes replaced the traditional notion of the centralized state. This concept is related to the Marxist idea of transcending alienation.\n\nThe Soviet-type economic model as practiced in the former Soviet Union and Eastern bloc is criticized by socialists for its lack of widespread self-management and management input on the part of workers in enterprises. However, according to both the Bolshevik view and Marx's own perspective, a full transformation of the work process can only occur after technical progress has eliminated dreary and repetitive work - a state of affairs that had not yet been achieved even in the advanced Western economies.\n\nIn his book \"\", Daniel H. Pink argues on the basis of empirical evidence that self-management/self-directed processes, mastery, worker autonomy and purpose (defined as intrinsic rewards) are much more effective incentives than monetary gain (extrinsic rewards). According to Pink, for the vast majority of work in the 21st century, self-management and related intrinsic incentives are far more crucial than outdated notions of hierarchical management and an over-reliance on monetary compensation as reward.\n\nWorker self-management became a primary component of some trade union organizations, in particular revolutionary syndicalism which was introduced in late 19th century France, and guild socialism in early 20th century Britain, although both movements collapsed in the early 1920s. French trade-union CFDT (\"Confédération Française Démocratique du Travail\") included worker self-management in its 1970 program, before later abandoning it. The philosophy of workers' self-management has been promoted by the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) since its founding in the United States in 1905.\n\nCritics of workers' self-management from the left such as Gilles Dauvé and Jacques Camatte do not admonish the model as reactionary, but simply as not progressive in the context of developed capitalism. Such critics suggest that capitalism is more than a relationship of management. Rather, they suggest capitalism should be considered as a social totality which workers' self-management in and of itself only perpetuates and does not challenge – despite its seemingly radical content and activity. This theory is used to explain why self-management in Yugoslavia never advanced beyond the confines of the larger state monopoly economy, or why many modern worker-owned facilities tend to return to hiring managers and accountants after only a few years of operation.\nGuild socialism is a political movement advocating workers' control of industry through the medium of trade-related guilds \"in an implied contractual relationship with the public\". It originated in the United Kingdom and was at its most influential in the first quarter of the 20th century. It was strongly associated with G. D. H. Cole and influenced by the ideas of William Morris.\nOne significant experiment with workers' self-management took place during the Spanish Revolution (1936–1939). Rudolf Rocker said in his book \"Anarcho-Syndicalism\" (1938): \n\nIn the 1950s, at the height of the Cold War, Yugoslavia advocated what was officially called \"socialist self-management\" in distinction from the Eastern Bloc countries, all of which practiced central planning and centralized management of their economies. The economy of Yugoslavia was organized according to the theories of Tito and – more directly – Edvard Kardelj. Croatian scientist Branko Horvat also made a significant contribution to the theory of workers' self-management (\"radničko samoupravljanje\") as practiced in Yugoslavia. Due to Yugoslavia's neutrality and its leading role in the Non-Aligned Movement, Yugoslav companies exported to both Western and Eastern markets. Yugoslav companies carried out construction of numerous major infrastructural and industrial projects in Africa, Europe and Asia.\n\nAfter May 68 in France, LIP factory, a clockwork factory based in Besançon, became self-managed starting in 1973 after the management's decision to liquidate it. The LIP experience was an emblematic social conflict of post-68 in France. CFDT (the CCT as it was referred to in Northern Spain), trade-unionist Charles Piaget led the strike in which workers claimed the means of production. The Unified Socialist Party (PSU), which included former Radical Pierre Mendès-France, was in favour of \"autogestión\" or self-management.\n\nIn the Basque Country of Spain, the Mondragon Cooperative Corporation represents perhaps the longest lasting and most successful example of workers' self-management in the world. It has been touted by a diverse group of people, such as the Marxian economist Richard D. Wolff and the research book \"Capital and the Debt Trap\" as an example of how the economy can be organized on an alternative to the capitalist mode of production.\n\nIn the 2010s, due to the economic crisis in Greece, a number of factories have been occupied and have become self-managed along the lines of autogestión.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, worker and utility cooperatives flourished to the point that more than half of U.S. farmers belonged to a cooperative. In general worker cooperatives and cooperative banking institutions were formed across the country and became a thriving alternative for workers and customers. Now, due to the economic downturn and stagnation in the rustbelt, worker cooperatives such as the Evergreen Cooperatives have been formed in response, inspired by Mondragon.\n\nIn October 2005 the first \"Encuentro Latinoamericano de Empresas Recuperadas\" (\"Latin American Encounter of Recovered Companies\") took place in Caracas, Venezuela, with representatives of 263 such companies from different countries living through similar economical and social situations. The meeting had, as its main outcome, the \"Compromiso de Caracas\" (Caracas' Commitment); a vindicating text of the movement.\nEnglish-language discussions of this phenomenon may employ several different translations of the original Spanish expression other than \"recovered factory\". For example, \"worker-recuperated enterprise\", \"recuperated factory/business\",\"worker-recovered factory/business\", \"reclaimed factory\", and \"worker-run factory\" have been noted. The phenomenon is also known as \"autogestión,\" which comes from the French word for self-management (applied to factories, popular education systems, and other uses). Worker self-management may coincide with employee ownership.\n\nArgentina's \"fábricas recuperadas\" movement, which emerged in response to Argentine's 2001 economic crisis, is the current most significant workers' self-management phenomenon in the world. Workers took over control of the factories in which they had worked, commonly after bankruptcy, or after a factory occupation to circumvent a lockout.\n\n\"Fábricas recuperadas\" means \"reclaimed/recovered factories.\" The Spanish verb \"recuperar\" means not only \"to get back\", \"to take back\" or \"to reclaim\" but also \"to put back into good condition\". Although initially referring to industrial facilities, the term may also apply to businesses other than factories (e.g. Hotel Bauen in Buenos Aires).\n\nThroughout the 1990s in Argentina's southern province of Neuquén, drastic economic and political events occurred where the citizens ultimately rose up. Although the first shift occurred in a single factory, bosses were progressively fired throughout the province so that by 2005 the workers of the province controlled most of the factories.\n\nThe movement emerged as a response to Argentine's 2001 economic crisis, and about 200 Argentine companies were \"recovered\" by their workers and turned into co-operatives. Prominent examples include the Brukman factory, the Hotel Bauen and FaSinPat (formerly known as Zanon). As of 2005, about 15,000 Argentine workers run recovered factories.\n\nThe phenomenon of \"fabricas recuperadas\" (\"recovered factories\") is not new in Argentina. Rather, such social movements were completely dismantled during the so-called \"Dirty War\" in the 1970s. Thus, during Héctor Cámpora's first months of government (May–July 1973), a rather moderate and left-wing Peronist, approximately 600 social conflicts, strikes and factory occupations had taken place.\n\nMany recovered factories are run co-operatively and all workers receive the same wage. Important management decisions are taken democratically by an assembly of all workers, rather than by professional managers.\n\nThe proliferation of these \"recoveries\" has led to the formation of a recovered factory movement, which has ties to a diverse political network including socialists, Peronists, anarchists and communists. Organizationally, this includes two major federations of recovered factories, the larger Movimiento Nacional de Empresas Recuperadas (or National Movement of Recuperated Businesses, or MNER) on the left and the smaller National Movement of Recuperated Factories (MNFR) on the right. Some labor unions, unemployed protestors (known as piqueteros), traditional worker cooperatives and a range of political groups have also provided support for these take-overs. In March 2003, with the help of the MNER, former employees of the luxury Hotel Bauen occupied the building and took control of it.\n\nOne of the highest difficulties such a movement faces is its relation towards the classic economic system, as most classically managed firms refused, for various reasons (among which ideological hostility to the very principle of autogestión) to work and deal with recovered factories. Thus, isolated recovered factories find it easier to work together in building an alternative, more democratic economic system and thus manage to reach a critical size and power which enables it to negotiate with the ordinary capitalistic firms.\n\nThe movement led in 2011 to a new bankruptcy law that facilitates take over by the workers. The legislation was signed into law by President Cristina Kirchner on June 29, 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
