{"id": "58672422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58672422", "title": "Agenesis of the vena cava", "text": "Agenesis of the vena cava\n\nAgenesis of the vena cava is a genetic defect of the inferior vena cava. It comes about when, during development of the foetus, the right subcardinal vein does not connect as it should to the hepatic sinusoids.. \n\nAgenesis of the superior vena cava may also occur; it is very rare.\n"}
{"id": "7440172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7440172", "title": "Aiai", "text": "Aiai\n\nAiai (Administrative, Interactive Assistance over Internet) is a Swedish administration tool and aid for disabled people who require personal assistance. The software tool is used by both assistants and the clients or a company managing the assistance.\n\nAiai supports and is driven by and based on the Independent Living philosophy.\n\nAiai homepage\n"}
{"id": "55361340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55361340", "title": "Alexander Monteith (surgeon)", "text": "Alexander Monteith (surgeon)\n\nAlexander Monteith of Auldcathie (1660-1713) was an Edinburgh surgeon, who in his three terms as Deacon (President) of the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh, presided over some of the most important changes in its history. These included obtaining the rights to perform anatomical dissection on the bodies of prisoners dying in jail, the granting of a Royal Charter by William and Mary in 1695, and the construction of the original Surgeons' Hall, the first permanent home of the Edinburgh Surgeons.\n\nMonteith was the son of James Monteith of Auldcathie in what is now West Lothian. He was apprenticed to William Borthwick of Pilmuir. As Borthwick had studied at two of the great European medical centres, Padua and Leyden, it was natural that he should encourage his apprentice to do the same and Monteith spent several years studying on the Continent.\nHe was admitted as a Freeman (Fellow) of the Incorporation of Surgeons on 22 December 1691. \n\nOn 24 October 1694 Monteith petitioned the Town Council 'for a gift' to obtain anatomical subjects for dissection.He requested 'the bodies of those who die in the Correction House [prison] and foundlings who die upon the breast...' In return he offered to treat the poor of the town 'gratis' and this was accepted by the Council. He had the powerful support in this venture of Archibald Pitcairne, who had served as Professor of Physic at Leyden from 1692. Pitcairne wrote to a friend in 1694 'I doe propose, if it be granted, to make better emprovements, in anatomie than have been made at Leyden these thirttie years...' The Incorporation, concerned that Monteith might 'monopolise the whole subjects of anatomical dissection', made a similar request for bodies for dissection the following week. The Council agreed on condition that the Incorporation build an anatomy theatre for public anatomy dissections.\nThe anatomy theatre was therefore the main reason for the building of Surgeons' Hall which opened in 1697. The first public dissection took place in 1703 when Monteith dissected the abdominal cavity on the third day of dissection.\n\nHe was elected Deacon of the Incorporation in 1695 and again in 1699 but on the latter occasion was deposed. This was almost certainly because he was a Jacobite and the Incorporation had a strong Presbyterian tradition - all of the surgeons had signed the National Covenant in 1638. Like his friend Archibald Pitcairne, also an enthusiastic Jacobite, he seems to have had the strength of character to overcome this setback and he was again elected Deacon in 1701.\nMonteith rented three rooms in the basement of the new Surgeons' Hall as a 'laboratory', in which he could give instruction in chemistry to the apothecaries. His course in 'chymie' [chemistry], lasting six weeks was advertised in the Edinburgh Gazette in 1699. He seems to have used this for additional purposes because in 1700 he asked the Scottish Parliament in a petition, \"That the art discovered by him to draw spirits from malt equal in goodness to true French brandy maybe declared a manufactory with the same privileges and immunities as are granted to other manufactories\". This was effectively asking for a patent to distil his own brand of malt whisky.\n\nMonteith was therefore a Deacon at an important time in the history of the Incorporation. In 1694 the Incorporation was granted a new charter by King William and Queen Mary. This confirmed that only certified members of the Incorporation had the rights to practise surgery and pharmacy in south-east Scotland. The Charter also confirmed the responsibility of the Incorporation for the teaching of anatomy.\n\nMonteith owned the estate of Todshaugh, later Foxhall, in West Lothian.\n\nGairdner gives his date of death as 23 December 1713. This date is confirmed on his grave in Greyfriars Kirkyard in central Edinburgh.\n"}
{"id": "20041758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20041758", "title": "Anne Anastasi", "text": "Anne Anastasi\n\nAnne Anastasi (December 19, 1908 – May 4, 2001) was an American psychologist best known for her pioneering development of psychometrics. Her seminal work, \"Psychological Testing\", remains a classic text in which she drew attention to the individual being tested and therefore to the responsibilities of the testers. She called for them to go beyond test scores, to search the assessed individuals’ history to help them to better understand their own results and themselves.\n\nKnown as the “test guru”, Anastasi focused on what she believed to be the appropriate use of psychometric tests. As stated in an obituary, “She made major conceptual contributions to the understanding of the manner in which psychological development is influenced by environmental and experiential factors. Her writings have provided incisive commentary on test construction and the proper application of psychological tests.”. According to Anastasi, such tests only revealed what the test-taker knows at the time; they did not explain test scores. In addition, any psychometric measurement must take into account that aptitude is context-dependent. Anastasi stressed the importance of the role of the tester to correctly select, conduct, and evaluate tests.\n\nShe was president of the American Psychological Association in 1972, the third ever woman to be elected. In 1987, she was awarded the National Medal of Science.\n\nAnastasi's (1983) essay “What Do Intelligence Tests Measure?” aimed to correct misinterpretations regarding the understanding and use of aptitude and personality tests. Anastasi pointed out that the “testing boom” of the 1920s caused the term IQ to be adopted and misused by the general public. According to Anastasi, the misappropriation of the term created connotations that intelligence is heritable, stable throughout one's lifespan, and resistant to change.\n\nIn contrast, Anastasi emphasized that psychometric scores convey an individual's present status of what he or she knows. She cautioned against interpreting such tests as serving a strong predictive function, as scores only indicated to what degree a person acquired the knowledge and skills for the criterion of a given test. They evaluate for what is in high demand within a specific context; what an individual can achieve in the future depends not only on his or her present intellectual status as determined by the test, but also on subsequent experiences. Therefore, Anastasi advocated against psychometric tests definitively labelling a person, as they assess for specific types of knowledge and do not account for how intelligence can change over time.\n\nImportant to Anastasi was an understanding of the cultural frames of reference within which a test is developed. She stated that “No intelligence test can be culture free, because human intelligence is not culture free”. Therefore, according to Anastasi, the first step in developing an intelligence test within a given culture was formulating a task analysis in order to determine how well individuals gain knowledge valued within that culture.\n\nAnastasi mostly applied existing methods to individual and group ability testing, as well as self-report inventories and measuring interests and attitudes. She followed the methodological principles of norms, reliability, validity, and item analysis. The essay “Psychological Testing: Basic Concepts and Common Misconceptions,” encapsulates Anastasi's methodological positions. Anastasi stressed that, in order to evaluate any psychometric test, the tester must be knowledgeable of the main features of the tests, particularly as they apply to norms, validity, and reliability. Her approach to standard scores and standard deviation was one in which she believed that understanding statistical concepts was essential to understanding the meaning of statistical computation.\n\nIn regards to criterion-referenced tests, Anastasi diverged from educational psychologist Robert Glaser, who first introduced the concept in 1963. Instead of approaching such tests as fundamentally different from norm-referenced tests, Anastasi maintained that the two could be combined to give a more comprehensive evaluation of the individual's test performance. An example is the Stanford Diagnostic Test in reading and mathematics, which assesses specific subject mastery by combining both interpretations.\n\nAnastasi recognized that there are many types of test reliability. However, when dealing with standardized testing, much of the variance in reliability can be minimized by controlling such conditions as the testing environment, rapport, instructions, and time limits.\n\nIn contrast with the belief that there are three kinds of validity - content validity, criterion validity, and construct validity - Anastasi espoused to the then-growing belief of the mid-1980s that many more procedures could be used to build validity into a test. Defining the constructs to be assessed initiates the validation process. It culminates with “validating and cross-validating various scores through statistical analyses against external, real-life criteria”.\n\nIn \"Psychological Testing: Basic Concepts and Common Misconceptions,\" Anastasi clarified differences between types of tests. Two differences between aptitude tests and achievement tests are test use and the degree of experiential specificity forming the foundation of the tests’ construction. Achievement tests are used to assess current status; aptitude tests can predict future performance as defined by their specific criteria. Experiential specificity is narrowly defined for achievement tests, such as SAT Subject Tests. In contrast, the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scales aptitude tests are based on broad knowledge of American culture beginning in the twentieth century.\n\nAnastasi's theoretical framework that ability or intelligence change with experience and that their cultural context dictates their parameters informed her methodological approach to psychometric testing. Tests should be selected and used while bearing in mind their contextual appropriateness and limitations. She emphasized that tests serve specific functions in Western society, such as school/occupational placement or to assess for mental disabilities.\n\nThe 1955 first edition of Psychological Testing was criticized for attributing test results only to individual differences, instead of recognizing that “‘occasional differences’ are also measured by means of tests\". In the latest edition of the book, Anastasi and her co-author Susana Urbina suggested that more accurate results can be obtained by combining information from several fairly homogeneous tests. Each one would cover a single trait, or different aspect of the criterion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14058492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14058492", "title": "Asynclitic birth", "text": "Asynclitic birth\n\nAn asynclitic birth or asynclitism refers to the position of a fetus in the uterus such that the head of the baby is presenting first and is tilted to the shoulder, causing the fetal head to no longer be in line with the birth canal (vagina). Asynclitic presentation is significantly different from a shoulder presentation, in which the shoulder is presenting first. Many babies enter the pelvis in an asynclitic presentation, and most asynclitism corrects spontaneously as part of the normal birthing process. Persistence of asynclitism can cause problems with dystocia, and has often been associated with cesarean birth. However, with a skilled midwife or obstetrician a complication-free vaginal birth can sometimes, though not necessarily, be achieved through movement and positioning of the birthing woman, and patience and extra time to allow for movement of the baby through the pelvis and moulding of the skull during the birthing process if this is safe in the circumstances.\n\nWhere intervention is the safest option in asynclitic birth, Kielland forceps are preferable obstetric forceps used in asynclitic births, for example by their sliding mechanism, availing for more appropriate adjustment of the blades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46434772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46434772", "title": "BionicKangaroo", "text": "BionicKangaroo\n\nBionicKangaroo is a robot model developed and made by Festo in the form of a kangaroo. Applying methods from kinematics, bionics, and biomimetics, Festo's researchers and engineers studied the way kangaroos move, and applied that to the design of a robot that moves in a similar way. The robot saves energy from each jump and applies it to its next jump, much as a real kangaroo does.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995486", "title": "Birth weight", "text": "Birth weight\n\nBirth weight is the body weight of a baby at its birth. The average birth weight in babies of European heritage is , though the range of normal is between and . Babies of south Asian and Chinese heritage weigh about \"less\". The birth weight of a baby is notable because very low birth weight babies are 100 times more likely to die compared to normal birth weight babies. As far as low birth weights prevalence rates changing over time, there has been a slight decrease from 7.9% (1970) to 6.8% (1980), then a slight increase to 8.3% (2006), to current levels of 8.2% (2016). The prevalence of low birth weight has trended slightly upward from 2012 to present day.\n\nThere have been numerous studies that have attempted, with varying degrees of success, to show links between birth weight and later-life conditions, including diabetes, obesity, tobacco smoking, and intelligence. Low birth weight is associated with neonatal infection and infant mortality.\n\n\nThere are two genetic loci that have been strongly linked to birth weight, ADCY5 and CCNL1, as well four that show some evidence (CDKAL1, HHEX-IDE, GCK, and TCF7L2). The heritability of birth weight ranges from 25-40 %. There is a complex relationship between a baby's genes and the maternal environment that the child is developing in. Foetal genes influence how the fetus grows in utero, and the maternal genes influence how the environment affects the growing fetus.\n\nThe health of the mother, particularly during the pregnancy. Intercurrent diseases in pregnancy are sometimes associated with decreased birth weight. For example, Celiac disease confers an odds ratio of low birth weight of approximately 1.8. Certain medications ( high blood pressure, epilepsy, etc. )can put a mother at a higher risk for delivering a low birth weight baby.\nGiving birth to a child when you are younger than 15 or older than 35 puts you at a higher risk to have a low-birth weight baby. Multiple births, where a mother has more than one child at one time, can also be a determinant in birth weight as each baby is likely to be outside the AGA (appropriate for gestational age). Multiple births put children at a higher rate to have low birth weight (56.6%) compared to children born in a single birth ( 6.2%). Low birth weight can also vary by maternal age. In 2008 the rate of low birth weight was the highest in babies born to women at an age that is younger than 15 years old which is 12.4 percent. Women aged 40–54 had a rate of low birth weight at 11.8 percent. The lowest rates of birth weight happened among babies to mothers that were between the ages of 25–29 years at 4.4 percent and 30–34 years at 7.6 percent.\n\nStressful events have been demonstrated to produce significant effects on birth weight. Those mothers who have stressful events during pregnancy, especially during the first and second trimester, are at higher risk to deliver low-birth weight babies. Researchers furthered this study and found that maternal stressful events that occur prior to conception have a negative impact on birth weight as well, and can result in a higher risk for preterm and lower birth weight babies. Women who experienced abuse (physical, sexual, or emotional) during pregnancy are also at increased risk of delivering a low-birth weight baby. For example, in a study completed by Witt et. al, those women who experienced a stressful event (ie. dealth of close family member, infertility issues, separation from partner) prior to conception had 38% more of a chance to have a very low birth weight baby compared to those who had not experienced a stressful life event. The theory is that stress can impact a baby based on two different mechanisms: neuroendocrine pathway or immune/inflammatory pathway. Stress causes the body to produce stress hormones called glucocorticoids that can suppress the immune system., as well as raises levels of placental corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) which can lead to preterm labor. These findings can pose evidence for future prevention efforts for low birth weight babies. One way to decrease rates of low birth weight and premature delivery is to focus on the health of women prior to conception through reproductive education, screening and counseling regarding mental health issues and stress, and access to primary care.\n\nNon-Hispanic Blacks have the highest infant mortality rate in the United States (11.4%, compared to the national average of 5.9%). Subsequently, there has been growing research supporting the idea of racial discrimination as a risk factor for low birth weight. In one study by Collins et. al, evidence suggested that African American mothers who experienced high levels of racial discrimination were at significantly higher risk of delivering a very low-birth weight baby compared to African American mothers who had not experienced racial discrimination. Black infants (13.2%) are more likely to have low birth weight compared to Asian and Pacific Islander (8.1%), American Indian and Alaska Native (7.6%), Non-Hispanic White (7.0%), and Hispanic Infants (7.1%).\n\nEnvironmental factors, including exposure of the mother to secondhand smoke can be a factor in determining the birth weight of child. In 2014, 13% of children exposed to smoke were born with low birth weight compared with 7.5% of those children born to nonsmokers. Children born to mothers who smoked or were exposed to secondhand smoke are more likely to develop health problems earlier in life such as neurodevelopmental delays. When mothers actively smoke during pregnancy, their child is at a higher risk of being born with a low birth weight. Smoking can also be a stress management tool used by expecting mothers. There is some support for lower socioeconomic status of the parents being a determinant of low birth weight, but there is conflicting evidence, as socioeconomic status is tied to many other factors.\n\nMost babies admitted to the NICU are born before 37 weeks of pregnancy or have low birth weight which is less than 5.5 pounds. They could also have a medical condition that requires special care. In the United States nearly half a million babies are born preterm because of this many of these babies also have low birth weights. There are four levels of care in the neonatal care units. Intensive Care, High Dependency Care, Low Dependency, and Transitional Care are the four levels:\n\n\nChildren born with an abnormally low birth weight can have significant problems within the first few years of life. They may have trouble gaining weight, obtaining adequate nutrition, and supporting a strong immune system. They also have higher risks for mortality, behavior problems, and mental deficiencies. Low birth weight babies are more likely to develop the following conditions after birth compared to normal birth weight babies:\n\n\nThat said, the effects of low birth weight on a child's first few years of life are often intertwined with other maternal, environmental, and genetic factors and most effects of low birth weight are only slightly negatively significant on a child's life when these factors are controlled for. When these factors are controlled, the only significant effect low birth weight has on a child's development is physical growth in the early years and the likelihood of being underweight compared to normal birth weight babies.\nStudies have been conducted to investigate how a person's birth weight can influence aspects of their future life. This includes theorised links with obesity, diabetes and intelligence.\n\nA baby born small or large for gestational age (either of the two extremes) is thought to have an increased risk of obesity in later life, but it was also shown that this relationship is fully explained by maternal weight. Middle aged adults with low birth weight present with a higher chance of obesity and diabetes. Children that are born under six pounds were 1.27 times more likely to develop diabetes compared to babies born at a healthy weight over six pounds.\n\nGrowth hormone (GH) therapy at a certain dose induced catch-up of lean body mass (LBM). However percentage body fat decreased in the GH-treated subjects. Bone mineral density SDS measured by DEXA increased significantly in the GH-treated group compared to the untreated subjects, though there is much debate over whether or not SGA (small for gestational age) is significantly adverse to children to warrant inducing catch-up.\nBabies that have a low birth weight are thought to have an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes in later life.\n\nLow birth weight is linked with increase rates of obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes and it is shown that children with the low birth weights have increased leptin levels after they catch up growth during childhood. Adiponection levels are positively related with birth weight and BMI in babies with an increase of risk of type 2 diabetes. The leptin and adiponection mechanisms are still being studied when involving low birth weight.\n\nSome studies have shown a direct link between an increased birth weight and an increased intelligence quotient. Increased birth weight is also linked to greater risk of developing autism.\n\nThere is much variation regarding birth weight within continents, countries, and cities. Even though over 20 million babies are born each year with low birth weight, it is hard to know the exact number as more than half of babies born in the world are not weighed at birth. The baby’s weight is an indicator of the mother and babies health. In 2013 22 million newborns had low birth weight, around 16 percent of all babies globally. Data on low birth weight is adjusted to account for under reporting. South Asia has the highest rate of babies not weighted at birth with 66 percent, but also have the highest low birth weight at 28 percent worldwide. West and Central Africa and least developed countries are next with 14 percent low birth weight worldwide.\n\nMore than 96.5% of low birth weight babies are born in developing countries around the world. Because low birth weight babies can require more extensive care, it places a financial burden on communities.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) recently announced an initiative to have a thirty percent reduction in low birth weight worldwide. This is public health priority, as birth weight can have short and long term effects. WHO estimates that worldwide, 15-20 % of all births each year are considered low birth weight, which is about 20 million births.\n\nThe start of prenatal care is very important to help prevent low birth weight and early medical problems. Going to regular doctor’s visits is very important for the health of the mother and the baby. At the visits the OB/GYN will be checking maternal nutrition and weight gain because that is linked with the baby’s weight gain. The mother having a healthy diet is essential for the baby. Maintaining good nutrition by taking folic acid which is found in fruits and vegetables is linked to premature births and low birth weight. Alcohol, cigarettes, and drugs should also be avoided during pregnancy because they can also lead to poor growth and other complications. By seeing the doctor they are also able to monitor pre-existing medical illnesses to make sure they are under control during pregnancy. Mothers with high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes are more likely to have infants with low birth weights. One essential action to increase normal birth weights is to have affordable ,accessible, and culturally sensitive prenatal care worldwide. This is essential not just for treating low birth weight, but also preventing it. Other prevention efforts include: smoking cessation programs, food-distribution systems, stress reduction and social service supports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "793631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=793631", "title": "Cancer vaccine", "text": "Cancer vaccine\n\nA cancer vaccine is a vaccine, that either treats existing cancer or prevents development of a cancer. Vaccines that treat existing cancer are known as \"therapeutic\" cancer vaccines.\n\nSome/many of the vaccines are \"autologous\", being prepared from samples taken from the patient, and are specific to that patient.\n\nSome researchers claim that cancerous cells routinely arise and are destroyed by the immune system; and that tumors form when the immune system fails to destroy them.\n\nSome types of cancer, such as cervical cancer and some liver cancers, are caused by viruses (oncoviruses). Traditional vaccines against those viruses, such as HPV vaccine and hepatitis B vaccine, prevent those types of cancer. These vaccines are not further discussed in this article. Other cancers are to some extent caused by bacterial infections (e.g. stomach cancer and \"Helicobacter pylori\"). Traditional vaccines against cancer-causing bacteria (oncobacteria) are not further discussed in this article.\n\nOne approach to cancer vaccination is to separate proteins from cancer cells and immunize patients against those proteins as antigens, in the hope of stimulating the immune system to kill the cancer cells. Research on cancer vaccines is underway for treatment of breast, lung, colon, skin, kidney, prostate and other cancers.\n\nAnother approach is to generate an immune response \"in situ\" in the patient using oncolytic viruses. This approach was used in the drug talimogene laherparepvec, a version of herpes simplex virus engineered to selectively replicate in tumor tissue and to express the immune stimulatory protein GM-CSF. This enhances the anti-tumor immune response to tumor antigens released following viral lysis and provides a patient-specific vaccine.\n\nIn a phase III trial of follicular lymphoma (a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma), investigators reported that the BiovaxID (on average) prolonged remission by 44.2 months, versus 30.6 months for the control.\n\nOn April 14, 2009, Dendreon Corporation announced that their Phase III clinical trial of sipuleucel-T, a cancer vaccine designed to treat prostate cancer, had demonstrated an increase in survival. It received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for use in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer patients on April 29, 2010.\n\nOn April 8, 2008, New York–based company Antigenics announced that it had received approval for the first therapeutic cancer vaccine in Russia. It is the first approval by a regulatory body of a cancer immunotherapy. The treatment, Oncophage, increased recurrence-free survival by a little more than a year according to the results of a phase III clinical trial. The approval is for a subset of kidney cancer patients who are at intermediate risk for disease recurrence. It awaits approval in the US and EU. but will need a new trial for FDA approval.\n\nInterim results from a phase III trial of talimogene laherparepvec in melanoma showed a significant tumour response compared to administration of GM-CSF alone.\n\nOncophage was approved in Russia in 2008 for kidney cancer. It is marketed by Antigenics Inc.\n\nSipuleucel-T, Provenge, was approved by the FDA in April 2010 for metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer. It is marketed by Dendreon Corp.\n\nCancerVax (Canvaxin), Genitope Corp (MyVax personalized immunotherapy), and FavId (Favrille Inc) are examples of cancer vaccine projects that have been terminated, due to poor phase III results.\n\nCancer vaccines seek to target a tumor-specific antigen and distinct from self-proteins. Selection of the appropriate adjuvant to activate antigen-presenting cells to stimulate immune responses, is required. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin, an aluminum-based salt, and a squalene-oil-water emulsion are approved for clinical use. An effective vaccine also should seek to stimulate long term memory to prevent tumor recurrence. Some scientists claim both the innate and adaptive immune systems must be activated to achieve total tumor elimination.\n\nTumor antigens have been divided into two categories: \"shared\" tumor antigens; and \"unique\" tumor antigens. Shared antigens are expressed by many tumors. Unique tumor antigens result from mutations induced through physical or chemical carcinogens; they are therefore expressed only by individual tumors.\n\nIn one approach, vaccines contain whole tumor cells, though these vaccines have been less effective in eliciting immune responses in spontaneous cancer models. Defined tumor antigens decrease the risk of autoimmunity, but because the immune response is directed to a single epitope, tumors can evade destruction through antigen loss variance. A process called \"epitope spreading\" or \"provoked immunity\" may mitigate this weakness, as sometimes an immune response to a single antigen can lead to immunity against other antigens on the same tumor.\n\nFor example, since Hsp70 plays an important role in the presentation of antigens of destroyed cells including cancer cells, this protein may be used as an effective adjuvant in the development of antitumor vaccines.\n\nA vaccine against a particular virus is relatively easy to create. The virus is foreign to the body, and therefore expresses antigens that the immune system can recognize. Furthermore, viruses usually only provide a few viable variants. By contrast, developing vaccines for viruses that mutate constantly such as influenza or HIV has been problematic.\n\nA tumour can have many cell types of cells, each with different cell-surface antigens. Those cells are derived from each patient and display few if any antigens that are foreign to that individual. This makes it difficult for the immune system to distinguish cancer cells from normal cells. Some scientists believe that renal cancer and melanoma are the two cancers with most evidence of spontaneous and effective immune responses, possibly because they often display antigens that are evaluated as foreign. Many attempts at developing cancer vaccines are directed against these tumors. However, Provenge's success in prostate cancer, a disease that never spontaneously regresses, suggests that cancers other than melanoma and renal cancer may be equally amenable to immune attack.\n\nHowever, most vaccine clinical trials have failed or had modest according to the standard RECIST criteria. The precise reasons are unknown, but possible explanations include:\n\n\nIn January 2009, a review article made recommendations for success as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21855250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21855250", "title": "Christopher Lukas", "text": "Christopher Lukas\n\nChristopher Lukas (born March 6, 1935) is an American writer, stage actor, television producer and director who, for the past forty-five years, has worked primarily for public television. From 1963 to 1971 he produced for WNET in New York City, making over 200 hours of programming for the educational station. In 1969 he was promoted to director of programming.\n\nChristopher \"Kit\" Lukas was born to Elizabeth and Edwin Lukas in White Plains, New York. His mother was an actress, and his uncle Paul Lukas was an Academy Award–winning actor. After his mother's death by suicide and his father's illness after her death, he was at the age of six enrolled in the coeducational Putney School boarding school in Vermont. He graduated with high honors from Swarthmore College and married Susan Ries in 1962. His older brother was J. Anthony Lukas, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and writer.\n\nAfter his work with public television, Lukas moved into the freelance world in 1971, working for public TV stations in San Francisco and Chicago, among others. His works for PBS include: \"The Mystery of Love\", \"The World of Abnormal Psychology\", \"Music From Aspen\", \"Whose Death is It, Anyway?\", \"\", \"The Do It Yourself Messiah\", and \"The Talking Walls of Pompeii\". His non-television works include videos for non-profit organizations.\n\nWhile continuing to work in video and television, Lukas returned in 2002 to the field of acting. He has appeared off-Broadway and in regional theaters, playing a wide variety of roles in plays by Shakespeare, Dostoyevsky, Chekhov, and Stoppard.\n\nAs a writer of books, he has concentrated on end-of-life matters. These works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "44410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44410", "title": "Conjunctivitis", "text": "Conjunctivitis\n\nConjunctivitis, also known as pink eye, is inflammation of the outermost layer of the white part of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelid. It makes the eye appear pink or reddish. Pain, burning, scratchiness, or itchiness may occur. The affected eye may have increased tears or be \"stuck shut\" in the morning. Swelling of the white part of the eye may also occur. Itching is more common in cases due to allergies. Conjunctivitis can affect one or both eyes.\nThe most common infectious causes are viral followed by bacterial. The viral infection may occur along with other symptoms of a common cold. Both viral and bacterial cases are easily spread between people. Allergies to pollen or animal hair are also a common cause. Diagnosis is often based on signs and symptoms. Occasionally, a sample of the discharge is sent for culture.\nPrevention is partly by handwashing. Treatment depends on the underlying cause. In the majority of viral cases, there is no specific treatment. Most cases due to a bacterial infection also resolve without treatment; however, antibiotics can shorten the illness. People who wear contact lenses and those whose infection is caused by gonorrhea or chlamydia should be treated. Allergic cases can be treated with antihistamines or mast cell inhibitor drops.\nAbout 3 to 6 million people get conjunctivitis each year in the United States. In adults, viral causes are more common, while in children, bacterial causes are more common. Typically, people get better in one or two weeks. If visual loss, significant pain, sensitivity to light, signs of herpes, or if symptoms do not improve after a week, further diagnosis and treatment may be required. Conjunctivitis in a newborn, known as neonatal conjunctivitis, may also require specific treatment.\nRed eye, swelling of the conjunctiva, and watering of the eyes are symptoms common to all forms of conjunctivitis. However, the pupils should be normally reactive, and the visual acuity normal.\n\nConjunctivitis is identified by irritation and redness of the conjunctiva. Except in obvious pyogenic or toxic/chemical conjunctivitis, a slit lamp (biomicroscope) is needed to confirm the diagnosis. Examination of the eyelid conjunctiva is usually more diagnostic than examination of the scleral conjunctiva.\n\nViral conjunctivitis is often associated with an infection of the upper respiratory tract, a common cold, or a sore throat. Its symptoms include excessive watering and itching. The infection usually begins in one eye, but may spread easily to the other eye.\n\nViral conjunctivitis manifests as a fine, diffuse pinkness of the conjunctiva, which is easily mistaken for a ciliary infection of the iris (iritis), but corroborative signs on microscopy, particularly numerous lymphoid follicles on the tarsal conjunctiva, and sometimes a punctate keratitis are seen.\n\nAllergic conjunctivitis is inflammation of the conjunctiva due to allergy. The specific allergens may differ among patients. Symptoms result from the release of histamine and other active substances by mast cells, and consist of redness (mainly due to vasodilation of the peripheral small blood vessels), swelling of the conjunctiva, itching, and increased production of tears.\n\nBacterial conjunctivitis causes the rapid onset of conjunctival redness, swelling of the eyelid, and a sticky discharge. Typically, symptoms develop first in one eye, but may spread to the other eye within 2–5 days. Conjunctivitis due to common pus-producing bacteria causes marked grittiness or irritation and a stringy, opaque, greyish or yellowish discharge that may cause the lids to stick together, especially after sleep. Severe crusting of the infected eye and the surrounding skin may also occur. The gritty or scratchy feeling is sometimes localized enough that patients may insist that they have a foreign body in the eye.\n\nCommon bacteria responsible for nonacute bacterial conjunctivitis are \"Staphylococcus\", \"Streptococcus\", and \"Haemophilus\" species. Less commonly, \"Chlamydia\" spp. may be the cause.\nBacteria such as \"Chlamydia trachomatis\" or \"Moraxella\" spp. can cause a nonexudative but persistent conjunctivitis without much redness. Bacterial conjunctivitis may cause the production of membranes or pseudomembranes that cover the conjunctiva. Pseudomembranes consist of a combination of inflammatory cells and exudates and adhere loosely to the conjunctiva, while true membranes are more tightly adherent and cannot be easily peeled away. Cases of bacterial conjunctivitis that involve the production of membranes or pseudomembranes are associated with \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\", β-hemolytic streptococci, and \"Corynebacterium diphtheriae\". \"C. diphtheriae\" causes membrane formation in conjunctiva of unimmunized children.\n\nChemical eye injury may result when an acidic or alkaline substance gets in the eye. Alkali burns are typically worse than acidic burns. Mild burns produce conjunctivitis, while more severe burns may cause the cornea to turn white. Litmus paper may be used to test for chemical causes. When a chemical cause has been confirmed, the eye or eyes should be flushed until the pH is in the range 6—8. Anaesthetic eye drops can be used to decrease the pain.\n\nIrritant or toxic conjunctivitis is primarily marked by redness. If due to a chemical splash, it is often present in only the lower conjunctival sac. With some chemicals, above all with caustic alkalis such as sodium hydroxide, necrosis of the conjunctiva marked by a deceptively white eye due to vascular closure may occur, followed by sloughing off of the dead epithelium. A slit lamp examination is likely to show evidence of anterior uveitis.\n\nInclusion conjunctivitis of the newborn is a conjunctivitis that may be caused by the bacterium \"Chlamydia trachomatis\", and may lead to acute, purulent conjunctivitis. However, it is usually self-healing.\n\nInfective conjunctivitis is most commonly caused by a virus. Bacterial infections, allergies, other irritants, and dryness are also common causes. Both bacterial and viral infections are contagious, passing from person to person or spread through contaminated objects or water.\n\nAdenoviruses are the most common cause of viral conjunctivitis (adenoviral keratoconjunctivitis). Herpetic keratoconjunctivitis, caused by herpes simplex viruses, can be serious and requires treatment with aciclovir. Acute hemorrhagic conjunctivitis is a highly contagious disease caused by one of two enteroviruses, enterovirus 70 and coxsackievirus A24. These were first identified in an outbreak in Ghana in 1969, and have spread worldwide since then, causing several epidemics.\n\nThe most common causes of acute bacterial conjunctivitis are \"Staphylococcus aureus\", \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", and \"Haemophilus influenzae\". Though very rare, hyperacute cases are usually caused by \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\" or \"Neisseria meningitidis\". Chronic cases of bacterial conjunctivitis are those lasting longer than 3 weeks, and are typically caused by \"S. aureus\", \"Moraxella lacunata\", or Gram-negative enteric flora.\n\nConjunctivitis may also be caused by allergens such as pollen, perfumes, cosmetics, smoke, dust mites, Balsam of Peru, or eye drops.\n\nConjunctivitis is part of the triad of reactive arthritis, which is thought to be caused by autoimmune cross-reactivity following certain bacterial infections. Reactive arthritis is highly associated with HLA-B27. Conjunctivitis is associated with the autoimmune disease relapsing polychondritis.\n\nCultures are not often taken or needed as most cases resolve either with time or typical antibiotics. If bacterial conjunctivitis is suspected, but no response to topical antibiotics is seen, swabs for bacterial culture should be taken and tested. Viral culture may be appropriate in epidemic case clusters.\n\nA patch test is used to identify the causative allergen in allergic conjunctivitis.\n\nAlthough conjunctival scrapes for cytology can be useful in detecting chlamydial and fungal infections, allergy, and dysplasia, they are rarely done because of the cost and the general dearth of laboratory staff experienced in handling ocular specimens. Conjunctival incisional biopsy is occasionally done when granulomatous diseases (\"e.g.\", sarcoidosis) or dysplasia are suspected.\n\nConjunctivitis may be classified either by cause or by extent of the inflamed area.\n\n\nNeonatal conjunctivitis is often grouped separately from bacterial conjunctivitis because it is caused by different bacteria than the more common cases of bacterial conjunctivitis.\n\nBlepharoconjunctivitis is the dual combination of conjunctivitis with blepharitis (inflammation of the eyelids).\n\nKeratoconjunctivitis is the combination of conjunctivitis and keratitis (corneal inflammation).\n\nBlepharokeratoconjunctivitis is the combination of conjunctivitis with blepharitis and keratitis. It is clinically defined by changes of the lid margin, meibomian gland dysfunction, redness of the eye, conjunctival chemosis and inflammation of the cornea.\n\nSome more serious conditions can present with a red eye, such as infectious keratitis, angle-closure glaucoma, or iritis. These conditions require the urgent attention of an ophthalmologist. Signs of such conditions include decreased vision, significantly increased sensitivity to light, inability to keep the eye open, a pupil that does not respond to light, or a severe headache with nausea. Fluctuating blurring is common, due to tearing and mucoid discharge. Mild photophobia is common. However, if any of these symptoms is prominent, considering other diseases such as glaucoma, uveitis, keratitis, and even meningitis or carotico-cavernous fistula is important.\n\nA more comprehensive differential diagnosis for the red or painful eye includes:\n\nThe most effective prevention is good hygiene, especially avoiding rubbing the eyes with infected hands. Vaccination against adenovirus, \"Haemophilus influenzae\", pneumococcus, and \"Neisseria meningitidis\" is also effective.\n\nPovidone-iodine eye solution has been found to prevent neonatal conjunctivitis. It is becoming more commonly used globally because of its low cost.\n\nConjunctivitis resolves in 65% of cases without treatment, within 2-5 days. The prescription of antibiotics is not necessary in most cases.\n\nViral conjunctivitis usually resolves on its own and does not require any specific treatment. Antihistamines (e.g., diphenhydramine) or mast cell stabilizers (e.g., cromolyn) may be used to help with the symptoms. Povidone-iodine has been suggested as a treatment, but as of 2008, evidence to support it was poor.\n\nFor allergic conjunctivitis, cool water poured over the face with the head inclined downward constricts capillaries, and artificial tears sometimes relieve discomfort in mild cases. In more severe cases, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications and antihistamines may be prescribed. Persistent allergic conjunctivitis may also require topical steroid drops.\n\nBacterial conjunctivitis usually resolves without treatment. Topical antibiotics may be needed only if no improvement is observed after 3 days. No serious effects were noted either with or without treatment. Because antibiotics do speed healing in bacterial conjunctivitis, their use may be considered. Antibiotics are also recommended for those who wear contact lenses, are immunocompromised, have disease which is thought to be due to chlamydia or gonorrhea, have a fair bit of pain, or have copious discharge. Gonorrheal or chlamydial infections require both oral and topical antibiotics.\n\nThe choice of antibiotic varies based on the strain or suspected strain of bacteria causing the infection. Fluoroquinolones, sodium sulfacetamide, or trimethoprim/polymyxin may be used, typically for 7–10 days. Cases of meningococcal conjunctivitis can also be treated with systemic penicillin, as long as the strain is sensitive to penicillin.\n\nWhen investigated as a treatment, povidone-iodine ophthalmic solution has also been observed to have some effectiveness against bacterial and chlamydial conjunctivitis, with a possible role suggested in locations where topical antibiotics are unavailable or costly.\n\nConjunctivitis due to chemicals is treated via irrigation with Ringer's lactate or saline solution. Chemical injuries, particularly alkali burns, are medical emergencies, as they can lead to severe scarring and intraocular damage. People with chemically induced conjunctivitis should not touch their eyes to avoid spreading the chemical.\n\nConjunctivitis is the most common eye disease.\n\nAn adenovirus was first isolated by Rowe \"et al.\" in 1953. Two years later, Jawetz \"et al.\" published on epidemic keratoconjunctivitis. \"Madras eye\" is a colloquial term that has been used in India for the disease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1013258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1013258", "title": "Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists", "text": "Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists\n\nThe Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) is a 501(c)(6) non-profit organization originally organized in 1955, founded in 1992, and based in Atlanta, Georgia. CSTE works to advance public health policy and workforce capacity for applied public health epidemiologists in all localities, states, and territories in the United States.\n\nCSTE also provides information, education, and developmental support of practicing epidemiologists in a wide range of areas as well as expertise for program and surveillance efforts. CSTE works with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Department Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), and other partners. CSTE is led by an executive board composed of members who lead activities in various subject-specific steering committees.\n\nThe Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) is committed to improving the public's health by supporting the efforts of epidemiologists working at the state and local level to influence public health programs and policy based on science and data.\n\nCSTE promotes the effective use of epidemiologic data to guide public health practice and improve health. CSTE accomplishes this by supporting the use of effective public health surveillance and good epidemiologic practice through training, capacity development, and peer consultation, developing standards for practice, and advocating for resources and scientifically based policy.\n\nCSTE has worked with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on \"Case Definitions for Public Health Surveillance\" and \"Chronic Disease Indicators\".\n\nCSTE is known for the following activities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44008391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008391", "title": "David Nash (basketball)", "text": "David Nash (basketball)\n\nDavid Nash is a retired professional American basketball player who is most known for his time with the Harlem Globetrotters. Nash finished his collegiate career with the Kansas Jayhawks in 1968 and was drafted in the 4th round of the 1969 NBA Draft by the Chicago Bulls. Due to his length and 6'11\" height, he was a natural for the center position. Nash now works as an educator on sleep apnea for the National Library of Medicine.\n"}
{"id": "50004590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50004590", "title": "Disability studies in education", "text": "Disability studies in education\n\nDisability Studies in Education (DSE) is a field of academic study concerned with education research and practice related to disability. DSE scholars promote an understanding of disability from a social model of disability perspective to “challenge social, medical, and psychological models of disability as they relate to education\". A DSE perspective situates disability within social and political context and is concerned with the civil and human rights of students with disabilities, including issues of equity, access, and inclusion in educational settings, curricula, and activities. DSE emerged as a part of the broader, interdisciplinary Disability Studies movement and as a critique of special education.\n\nDSE scholarship is based on a social conception of disability that identifies barriers, attitudes, and actions that serve to systematically exclude individuals with disabilities society. It is a reaction to the dominant medical model of disability which positions people with disabilities as having limitations outside of the \"normal\" or typical boundaries that require remediation and intervention. DSE has its origins in sociological theories of deviance, social stigma and labeling theory as social construction. By 1970, there emerged critiques of labeling in special education, now referred to as ableism.\n\nThe social model of disability positions physical, intellectual, psychological, sensory, and emotional variations as natural and therefore requires societal changes in the response to those variations. The problem therefore resides not within the individual with impairments, but in the attitudes toward and treatment of people with disabilities. A DSE perspective is grounded in the belief that a collective social response to disability has resulted in systematic inequality, marginalization, discrimination, and oppression. There is also the recognition that disability is both a form of individuation and group identification. Because individual identities are complex and intersect with other identity categories (i.e. race, gender, social class, sexual orientation), there are varied ways that individuals may identify themselves as disabled.\n\nDSE is concerned with critical issues concerning the education of people identified as disabled. Central questions of concern to DSE scholars are:\n\n\nDSE scholars promote academic activism in that they seek to counter the dominant discourse of the disabled student as deficient and abnormal. They criticize special education as an inadequate response to disability which seeks to remediate the individual in order for them to fit in with the norm. They promote a social justice perspective in which the purpose of education is to accept and care for all students.\n\n\nDSE scholars challenge research methodologies that serves to objectify, marginalize, and oppress disabled people. They promote research that is created by and accountable to disabled people, rather than portraying them as subjects. They recognize the value of interdisciplinary approaches within and outside the educational field and promote interaction among researchers from a variety of disciplinary perspectives.\n\n\nA DSE perspective foregrounds the interests and voices of disabled students in their education. DSE scholars reject deficit models of disability and assume that all children have the right to equitable, full, and meaningful access to educational opportunities. At the same time, DSE scholars understand that special education ≠ inclusive education ≠ disability studies in education.\n"}
{"id": "51892405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51892405", "title": "Food hubs", "text": "Food hubs\n\nA food hub, as defined by the USDA, is “a centrally located facility with a business management structure facilitating the aggregation, storage, processing, distribution, and/or marketing of locally/regionally produced food products.” Food hubs are a part of the agricultural value chain model and often share common values relating to conservation, sustainability, healthy food access, and supporting local farmers. A defining characteristic of food hubs is source identification, a food safety and marketing benefit that allows consumers to trace the origin of products they buy. One of the primary goals of food hubs is to give small and medium-sized farmers access to larger or additional markets. Food hubs also fill gaps in food systems infrastructure, such as transportation, product storage, and product processing. Although companies and organizations that fit the USDA definition have been operating in the United States since at least the early 1970s, most food hubs, as well as the common use of the term, started in or after 2008. \n\nFood hubs handle some or all of the following:\n\nFood hubs are generally categorized into three different types. \n\n"}
{"id": "14276148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14276148", "title": "Geralt of Rivia", "text": "Geralt of Rivia\n\nGeralt of Rivia () is a fictional character, the protagonist of \"The Witcher\" series of short stories and novels by Polish writer Andrzej Sapkowski, as well as its adaptations, which include film, TV series, comic books and video games. Geralt, one of the few remaining witchers on the Continent, is a traveling monster slayer for hire, mutated and trained from an early age to slay deadly beasts.\n\nGeralt was portrayed by Michał Żebrowski in \"The Hexer\" film and TV series, and will be portrayed by Henry Cavill in a netflix television adaptation.\n\nGeralt, the central character, is a witcher. Shortly after being born, Geralt was forced (by the \"Law of Surprise\", a law that states that if one cannot pay for the services of a witcher, the witcher is entitled to something the debtor does not yet know they have) to undergo training and, eventually, become a witcher at Kaer Morhen — the stronghold of the Wolf School Witchers. Geralt survived numerous mutations during the Trial of the Grasses, thanks to which he gained practically superhuman physical and mental abilities with minimal side effects. He resisted the \"changes\" brought on by the Trial of Grasses better than most, which encouraged his makers to perform even more dangerous experimental procedures on him, making him lose all body pigmentation. Because of his pale skin and white hair, he is also known in the Elder Speech as \"Gwynbleidd\", the White Wolf.\n\nDespite his name, Geralt does not come from Rivia (although he learned how to mimic a Rivian accent and is later knighted for services to the queen of Rivia): young witchers were encouraged to make up surnames for themselves by master Vesemir, to make their names sound more trustworthy. He once claimed that his first choice was Geralt Roger Eric du Haute-Bellegarde, but this was dismissed by Vesemir as silly and pretentious.\n\nAfter completing his witcher training, he received his Wolf medallion (the symbol of Kaer Morhen) and embarked into the world on his horse called \"Płotka\" — (literally, \"Roach\" with a dimunitive suffix. More accurately \"Roachie\" in English; he gave the same name to every horse he owned) to become a monster slayer for hire.\n\nEven though Geralt did not believe in destiny, he unknowingly demanded the unborn child of princess Pavetta and her husband Duny as a reward for his services by invoking \"the Law of Surprise\". The child turned out to be a girl, Ciri (otherwise known as Ziri coming from the elder speech word Zireael meaning \"Swallow\"). At first, Geralt did not take her because women cannot become witchers. However, fate or blind chance caused Geralt and Ciri to cross their paths thrice, and after the death of her grandmother, Queen Calanthe of Cintra, Geralt ends up taking the girl into his care, training and loving her as his own daughter.\n\nThe events of the novels unfold as Geralt is pulled into a whirlwind of events in his attempts to protect Ciri from those who would do her harm, becoming reluctantly embroiled in the political contentions of monarchs and emperors.\n\nAfter seemingly being killed by a mob during a slaughter of non-humans at the end of the \"Witcher\" saga and taken, with Yennefer, to the Isle of Avalon, by Ciri, who then revives them, Geralt's story continues in CD Projekt Red's video game trilogy (\"The Witcher\", \"\" and \"\"). Geralt wakes in the outskirts of the Kaer Morhen fortress, with no recollection of the details of his sudden reappearance, (after Yennefer was captured by the Wild Hunt, he offered himself for her freedom. He was saved once again by Ciri, and left wounded and without memory of his past in the wood near Kaer Morhen). He is rescued by his fellow witchers of the school of the wolf and taken back to Kaer Morhen.\n\nGeralt, voiced by Doug Cockle, appeared as a guest character in the 2018 game \"Soulcalibur VI\".\n\nSapkowski stated that the games are a work of art of their own and that they cannot be considered either an \"alternative version\", or a sequel, \"because this can only be told by Geralt's creator. A certain Andrzej Sapkowski.\" \n\nGeralt is described as being emblematic of Polish popular culture's spirit of \"neo-liberal anti-politics\" in the 1990s. He is a professional, carrying out his duties and unwilling to become involved in the \"petty quarrels\" of the contemporary politics. Marek Oramus compared Geralt to Raymond Chandler's signature character Philip Marlowe. In 2012, GamesRadar ranked him as the 50th best hero in video game history.\n\n"}
{"id": "49520333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49520333", "title": "Global Virus Network", "text": "Global Virus Network\n\nThe Global Virus Network (GVN) is an international coalition of medical virologists founded in 2011, and covering 24 countries in 2015.The Global Virus Network has grown to be a demanding and fundamental defense against any and all diseases of viral nature. It fosters research into viruses that cause human disease, with the aim of promoting the development of diagnostics, antiviral drugs and vaccines.In addition, GVN's mission includes strengthening medical research and response mechanisms to current viral causes to human disease. It was co-founded by Robert Gallo, who is its scientific director. It is headquartered at the Institute of Human Virology at the University of Maryland School of Medicine in the USA.\n\nGVN organises task forces in the areas of chikungunya and human T-lymphotropic virus, and launched one in the area of Zika in 2016.\n\nGVN's main mission is to tackle current broad viral threats as they develop, and to strengthen current research of viruses that cause human disease. By doing so they prepare themselves as well as the world for any and all viral hazards.Their mission is outlined by 3 steps that they take to achieve it. They are as follows: 1. International collective research, 2. On going raining of up coming generations of medical virologists (public education), and 3. Advocacy.\n\nWith the use of small grants provided to the GVN, they are capable of providing training fellowships. that ensures that current virologists are where they need to be to address any viral challenges.Global partnerships and mutual cooperation is the reason why the GVN can span globally, and be able to research viruses as the manifest and spread.\n\nGVN is a source of credible information about viruses, vaccines, and breakthroughs in both fields. They spread information through digital, and public speaking platforms.The GVN promotes educational and valuable programs for future generations of scientists and biologists. Its a stable resource for both large governments and small organizations who are attempting to prepare themselves for viral threats.\n\nEnsuring that funding is kept up and that they are able to provide up to ate information through partnerships with different governments and agencies spread-out throughout the world.The GVN is a huge advocate for further research to be done and for more training opportunities to be given for everyone across the globe\n\nAll scientists and research under the GVN is supported through different continuous small grants. The GVN works side by side with governments as well as with research companies found worldwide, in order to insure that money for both training for virologists and research money are kept high enough to meet the demands of global health.Funding also comes from the GVN's partnerships. The GVN is partnered with The Global Health Security Security Agenda (GHSA), the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and with the Medical Technology Enterprise Consortium (MTEC).\n\nThe GVN was founded collectively by William Hall (MD, PHD), Robert Gallo (MD), and the late Reinhard Kurth (MD) in 2011.\n\nThe GVN is the only Institute of its nature, and has 34 centers of excellence spread globally across 17 nations. Each center for the GVN has a medical virologist as its director, is willing to commit to GVN's mission, and the centers are effectively showing expertise in no fewer than two viral areas of science.\n\nLocations in the Middle East: Israel: Tel Aviv University\n\nLocations in Southern and Eastern Africa: South Africa, and Uganda.\n\nLocations in Europe and Eurasia: Ireland - University College Dublin\n\nGermany: Robert Koch Institute Berlin; Technical University of Munich; Philipp University Marburg\n\nBelgium: Northern Europe Consortium, Gembloux Agro-Biotech\n\nItaly: Italian Consortium – University of Verona\n\nSweden: Scandinavian-Baltic Consortium, Karolinska Institute\n\nUK: MRC-University of Glasgow, Scotland; The Pirbright Institute, Surrey\n\nSpain: Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa (CBMSO), Madrid; Centre de Recerca en Sanitat Animal (CReSA), Barcelona\n\nRussia: Moscow Center for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment\n\nNetherlands\n\nScotland\n\nFrance\n\nLocations in East Asia: China: Chinese Consortium – Chinese Centers for Disease Control\n\nLocations in North and South America: U.S: Maryland: Institute of Human Virology at the University of Maryland School of Medicine; Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health; J.\n\nCraig Venter Institute, Rockville\n\nNew York: Icahn School of Medicine at Mt. Sinai; University of Rochester Medical Center; University of Buffalo\n\nCalifornia: University of California San Francisco; Scripps Research Institute\n\nColorado: Colorado State University, Fort Collins\n\nMichigan: University of Michigan\n\nPennsylvania: University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute\n\nTexas: UTMB Institute for Human Infections and Immunity, Galveston National Laboratory\n\nArgentina: IBBM – National University of La Plata\n\nCHIKV has presented itself as mainly an onset febrile illness that works rapidly. Its first visible symptom is a rash on the hands and arms. It is known to cause a high fever, and has the same intensity of that of an acute viral infection. Both of those facts corresponds with any virus that is present and visible in the blood stream.\n\nThe GVN was initially formed in 2011 in response to the outbreak of the Chikungunya virus. At the time the virus had just spread to the Western Hemisphere. The GVN also talked about tackling the ongoing Ebola crisis centered around West Africa but the Chikungunya virus was their main priority at the time. CHIKU was discovered a little before 1968, and has had outbreaks from Thailand to the French Island of Reunion. The virus at the time had caused 254 deaths in the Island of Reunion. In 2013 the virus had begun spreading to the Caribbean and across to South America. The GVN is working toward Antiviral drugs and vaccines against the Chikungunya virus. A problem they faced from the beginning is limiting diagnosing capabilities. It was hard to be able to diagnose those with the virus from where they were located. They couldn't control the outbreaks in the regions where the virus was most prominent because of that limitation. However, so far the GVN has advanced the knowledge about the CHIKV infections, and have also aided in drawing up what preventative measures can be done globally. \n\nIn response to the viruses ability to spread a lot quicker than first thought, the GVN honed in its efforts to learn more about and get ahead of the virus. They enlisted a task force on the CHIKV. Different people working underneath the GVN were chosen based on their own personal research, their qualifications, and what they had already accomplished.The task force is made up of 22 members, 3 co-chairs, and is overseen by Scott Weaver, John Fazakerley, and Marc Lecuit. the task force had 4 main tasks for the Chikungunya virus. They would find out where potential funding for what was needed to be done would come from, provide information to all journalists and health officials, advocate for more research to be done on the mosquitos that carry many viruses, and to review the basic science of the disease in order to identify vaccines and to start drug trials.\n\nThe Zika virus is an fast acting virus that can be transferred through mosquito bites, and from a pregnant woman to her fetus. Currently there is no vaccines or specific medication to treat the symptoms associated with the Zika virus. However there are general medications that help dampen the common symptoms of the virus. Common symptoms include: fever, rash, headache joint pain, red eyes, and muscle pain. Symptoms typically don't last more than a week and people rarely die from this virus.The virus starts posing a threat if it gets transferred to a fetus, because it can cause birth defects, and can cause miscarriages and stillbirths. \n\nThe GVN also assembled a task force to tackle the Zika virus. Unlike the CHIKV task force, Membership to this task force is voluntary and its of any GVN member who has research or new developments that can be used in response to the Zika virus epidemic. Scott Weaver acts as chairman to this task force. The task force reports to all the GVN centers regarding news and information about the virus. The GVN's main goal is to be able to control the outbreak and keep it in one general area in order to make it easier to diagnose, control, and possibly treat the virus.\n\nThis infection effects one’s t cells. The virus usually causes no visible minor signs/symptoms. However, severe and are symptoms include: motor changes in your limbs, and inflamed spinal cord, weakened legs, and cognitive impairment. Some of those effected can later on develop adult T-cell Leukemia and can be pre-disposed to other severe medical conditions. This virus can spread through sexual contact, used (un sterile) needles, and by blood transfusions. It can also spread to a child from the mother’s breast milk. There are currently no treatments or cures for HTLV-1, and those who have it, have it all their life. It isn’t considered a huge threat because about 95% f those infected stay asymptomatic their whole life.\n\nThe GVN has stated how important its work is, The GVN is bring together the global community to work and talk through these viral problems that go under-recognized in a lot of countries. The task force made up of experts working on this virus spans across 11 countries, and is led by Dr. Robert Gallow in Maryland, Dr. Luc Willems in Belgium, and DR. Hideki Hasegawa in Japan. The task force works daily to accelerate and provide more research in order to hopefully stop HTLV-1 their mission includes funding drugs that can work in stopping the virus from growing into a disease. \n\n"}
{"id": "14612526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14612526", "title": "Grand Challenges In Global Health", "text": "Grand Challenges In Global Health\n\nThe Grand Challenges in Global Health (GCGH) is a research initiative launched by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in search of solutions to health problems in the developing world. Fifteen challenges are categorized in groups among seven stated goals plus an eighth group for family health. The disciplines involved include immunology, microbiology, genetics, molecular biology and cellular biology, entomology, agricultural sciences, clinical sciences, epidemiology, population and behavioral sciences, ecology, and evolutionary biology.\n\nGoal 1: Improve Vaccines \n\nGoal 2: Create New Vaccines\n\nGoal 3: Control Insect Vectors\n\nGoal 4: Improve Nutrition\n\nGoal 5: Limit Drug Resistance\n\nGoal 6: Cure Infection\n\nGoal 7: Measure Health Status\n\nTwo additional challenges for family health were announced in 2011.\n\nIn January 2003, Bill Gates first announced the Grand Challenges in Global Health at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. In partnership with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMFG) granted $200 million to the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (FNIH). The goal behind the initiative was to fund research to advance the fight against disease that disproportionately affects people in the world’s poorest countries. At this time the scientific board’s responsibilities were outlined: to identify scientific or technological innovations that have a global impact or show potential for feasibility.\n\nIn May 2003, the scientific board publicly advertised for ideas. Over a thousand suggestions from scientists and institutions in 75 countries were submitted by July. The scientific board met to further discuss these proposals, which were presented orally with a statement of the problem, descriptions of obstacles to progress, the challenge itself, and a discussion of potential benefits and priority areas for study and application. The following questions raised during the meetings reflect the difficulty in defining these Grand Challenges:\n\nIn October 2003, the scientific board announced fourteen Grand Challenges.\n\nIn August 2004, the evaluation of letters from around the world led to over 400 full proposals. Experts assessed proposals and the Executive Committee of the scientific board and staff members from FNIH and BMGF reviewed the projects to move into the negotiations for grants.\n\nIn May 2005, The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation gave an additional $250 million to fund research for the initiative, bringing the foundation’s commitment to $450 million.\n\nIn June 2005, the initiative announced grants for 43 new projects, attracting international partners.\n\nGrants for challenges 15 and 16 (in family health) were awarded in 2012.\n\nIn February 2015, GCGH and the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT) partnered to launch Target Research Platform to invest up to ¥100 million (US$1 million) for early stage development and approximately ¥200 million (US$2 million) in Grand Challenges grant investments per year. Successful projects will then move into GHIT’s regular investment program.\n\nLaunched in 2008, Grand Challenges Explorations, promotes invention in global health research. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation committed $100 million and grants have already been awarded to 495 researchers from 42 countries. Some grantees are pursuing radioactivity to kill infected cells, others are trying to develop a waterless toilet that is cost efficient as well as environmentally productive.\n\nThe Explorations grant initiative requires two short page applications but no preliminary data. Applications are submitted online. Initial grants of $100,000 are awarded two times a year. Successful projects have the opportunity to receive a follow-on grant of up to $1 million and could eventually evolve into Grand Challenges project.\nThe key challenge associated with such large-scale research projects called for by the initiative is the addressing of ethical, social, and cultural (ESC) issues related to the Grand Challenges. Dr. Peter A. Singer and Dr. James Lavery and a team of colleagues are employing projects to address these barriers, but for the GCGH initiative to be successful, compliance and collaboration with this concept is absolutely critical.\n\nThe Ethical, Social, and Cultural Program of the Grand Challenges in Global Health, launched in 2005, is targeted to address the ethical, social, and cultural issues that may arise as a result of the initiative - either in the development of the research itself, or in the implementation of knowledge and technology by the communities in need. The GCGH ESC program is the first significant science project concentrated entirely on ESC issues linked to the developing world. ESC issues can have a series of consequences that involve new technologies and approaches: rejection of safety precautions or genetically modified foods, for example, because of culture sensitivity or perceived health, environmental, or economic risks. The ESC program assumes that science and technology are essential to global health development, but the appropriate development of this technology requires attention to the accompanying ethical, social and cultural issues. The program aims to link ESC activities with the research projects and to include voices from the developing world within these projects. Its two main goals are (1) to provide an advisory service for GCGH projects and (2) to create a research program to facilitate appropriate adoption in the long-term. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation granted money in November 2005 for the program to be carried out. The program is described and discussed at length in a series of four articles published in PLoS Medicine.\n\nIn defining ESC issues, the program’s creators underwent a process of document analysis, group discussions with investigators and program staff, and interviews with experts from the developing world. The findings include thirteen issues that include: community engagement, public engagement, cultural acceptability, gender, post-trail obligations/benefit sharing, collaboration, the involvement of civil society organizations, affordability, accessibility, regulatory issues, collection, management, and storage of tissue samples, corruption and poor governance, and unintended consequences.\n\nThe ESC advisory service was created to address ESC issues identified at the start of GCGH research projects, as well as challenges encountered as projects progress. An advisory service co-leader and a lead bioethicist are assigned to each GCGH project. During the initial phase of communication, the co-leader and lead bioethicist define the issues and develop a strategy for addressing the challenge's issues based on their specific expertise. A process of consultation with the GCGH program officers has also been implemented to help identify issues within the challenges and its individual projects. The program officers often join the advisory service conference calls and offer expertise and insights that help anticipate ESC concerns.\n\nThe goal of the research program is to provide knowledge in order to facilitate the successful adoption of technology by GCGH's targeted communities. With working papers, working groups, global case studies, and demonstration projects on public engagement, research enhances the ESC expertise with respect to specific goals of the Grand Challenges.\n\nAs is the case with most health initiatives, the GCGH have been subject to a fair degree of criticism.\n\nA very widely circulated critique was published in 2005 in \"The Lancet\". In the column, Anne-Emanuelle Birn, Sc.D., an associate professor of Public Health Sciences at the University of Toronto, described the initiative's role as \"weak\" for focusing too narrowly on the power of science and neglecting the importance of economic, social, and political factors. She cites the 20th century cultural obsession with technological advancement as one that cannot ignore the need to redistribute economic and social resources within impoverished communities. She suggests that rather than trying to finance, develop and distribute new and existing vaccines, a more sustainable effort might focus on public support for a universal, accessible public health system. She references Goal #4, which involves improved nutrition, as a specific challenge that is shortsighted and \"overlooks key distributional questions\". She explains that because malnutrition and famine are not the result of technical obstacles, but rather, political and economic ones, technology is not the answer. These issues are not about supply or the lack of nutritional value available in foods, but rather, poor income distribution and market shifts leading to populations unable to afford food.\n\nLaurie Garrett, in her article published in \"Foreign Affairs\", says the main problem in global health was lack of resources but with the input of private players such as Bill and Melinda Gates, there has been a major contribution to pressing health issues such as HIV, Malaria, TB and others. Although these contributions are useful, they also highlight specific diseases which are more high-profile or research that may fascinate the public. The BMGF initiative may have provided funds for improving health care but this is not enough to improve public health, as education and an all-disease health system are needed.\n\n"}
{"id": "47234961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47234961", "title": "Griffith Pugh", "text": "Griffith Pugh\n\nLewis Griffith Cresswell Evans Pugh (29 October 1909 – 22 December 1994), generally known as Griffith Pugh, was a British physiologist and mountaineer. He was the expedition physiologist on the 1953 British expedition that made the first ascent of Mount Everest, and a researcher into the effects of cold and altitude on human physiology.\n\nPugh's father was Lewis Pugh Evans Pugh KC, a Welsh barrister who practised in Calcutta, and who had two children: Griffith, and Gwladys Mary Pugh. Pugh went to Harrow School, and between 1928 and 1931 took a degree in law at New College, Oxford University, although he switched to medicine, which he studied for three more years, after which he qualified at St Thomas' Hospital, London, in 1938, where he subsequently worked.\n\nOn 5 September 1939, Pugh married Josephine Helen Cassel, daughter of Sir Felix Cassel and Lady Helen Grimston, and they had four children: David Sheridan Griffith Pugh, Simon Francis Pugh, \nHarriet Veronica Felicity Pugh (whose married name is Harriet Tuckey) and \nOliver Lewis Evans Pugh.\n\nPugh was a keen skier, learning the skill in the Swiss resort of Engelberg as a child, and later competing in the World Championships. He was selected to represent Britain in the 1936 Winter Olympics in Garmisch-Partenkirchen in all three skiing disciplines but was unable to compete as a result of injury. He also made frequent trips to the Mont Blanc massif and the Bernese Oberland to climb.\n\nHaving served in the Royal Army Medical Corps in Britain, Greece, Crete, Egypt, Ceylon, Iraq and Jerusalem, Pugh was invited by fellow Harrovian W. J. Riddell, on the basis of his skiing and climbing expertise, to join the recently established School of Mountain Warfare at the Cedars resort in Lebanon, working for two years alongside A. D. M. Cox (an Oxford don and a considerable alpinist in his own right) and John Carryer. Pugh wrote papers for the School that were later used in the Army Training Manual, did much ski mountaineering, often ascending 3,000 to 4,000 feet, crossing 20 miles on trips that lasted up to 12 hours in self-contained units that could be self-sufficient for over a week, and training troops to oppose crack German mountain formations.\n\nAfter the war, Pugh worked in Hammersmith in clinical research at the Post-Graduate Medical School. His much-noted eccentricity was already evident, as when he attached electrodes to his body and submerged himself in an ice bath from which he had to be rescued as the cold had paralysed him. He moved in 1950 to the Medical Research Council laboratories in Hampstead to work under Professor Otto Edholm in the Department of Human Physiology as head of the Laboratory of Field Physiology. He stayed there for the rest of his career.\n\nExpedition leader Eric Shipton invited Pugh, now on the High Altitude Committee of the Medical Research Council, to accompany the British 1952 Cho Oyo expedition to perform research on oxygen equipment that would be useful on the following year's expedition to Mount Everest. Pugh realised that the best way to do this was to study climbers in the field at altitude, and he analysed rates of breathing, and food and fluid intake. His report on his findings was, according to George Band, a climber on the 1953 Mount Everest expedition, of \"fundamental value\" to that expedition. These included the need to drink considerably more than the usual three or four pints of liquid per day; on Mount Everest Hunt reports that Pugh's advice was that they drink six or seven pints of fluid a day. In June 1952, Pugh reported to the Joint Himalayan Committee that the failure of the Swiss on Mount Everest in the spring of that year suggested that the British, who he deemed to be less fit and less experienced mountaineers, therefore needed to be supplied with \"only the best oxygen equipment ... to put up a better performance than the Swiss\".\n\nPugh accompanied the Mount Everest expedition as field physiologist under the sponsorship of the Medical Research Council, although he did not travel with the main party, which left England for India in February 1953 aboard the S.S. \"Stratheden\". As well as the oxygen equipment, which he developed alongside Tom Bourdillon, much of the other high-altitude equipment – boots, tents, clothing, stoves and airbeds – was designed by him. Pugh also designed the diet, which included 400g of sugar a day for the assault party, most of which \"astonishing amount\", according to Band, was consumed by the Sherpas in their tea. In addition to his research on Cho Oyo, Pugh had taken part in tests of the oxygen equipment in a decompression chamber at the Royal Aircraft Establishment in Farnborough, where according to Hunt he displayed symptoms of anoxia when taken to the artificial height of 29,000 ft and had his oxygen mask removed; Band records his \"spasmodic twitching\" and attempts to prevent the instructor to replace his mask\". Pugh arranged for the use of \"sleeping oxygen\" at higher camps, where one oxygen bottle supplied two men through masks of the type used by BOAC; Pugh was with Hunt at Camp IV, where Hunt reported a restful night using the system.\n\nPugh's scientific equipment was carried from Kathmandu to Everest Base Camp in a \"shining aluminium trunk of coffin-like dimensions\", and during the walk-in he subjected expedition members to a number of physiological tests, including a \"maximum work test\", which involved going uphill as fast as possible and then breathing into a bag on collapsing exhausted at the top. He continued these tests at the camp at Thyangboche, where he set up his physiological tent, which contained scales, medical tools, thermometers and other equipment. His dress for the walk-in was pyjamas, a deerstalker's hat and sunglasses; he wore these pyjamas at the reception given by the King of Nepal at the expedition's end. Band accounts for them by stating that Pugh was protecting his fair skin from the sun, which suffered badly before he started wearing them, and relates that the Sherpas treated him as the expedition's \"holy man\" on account of his appearance and his \"absent-minded\" air.\n\nPugh was part of the first party to ascend from Thyangboche to find a route through the Khumbu Icefall.\n\nIn \"Everest – The First Ascent: The Untold Story of Griffith Pugh, the Man Who Made It Possible\" by Pugh's daughter Harriet Tuckey, published in 2013, Tuckey argues that her father was given insufficient credit in the official accounts of the first ascent – \"The Ascent of Everest\" by expedition leader John Hunt and the film \"The Conquest of Everest\" – for his role in making it possible. These accounts stressed the derring-do and \"grit and determination\" of the expedition team, while simultaneously downplaying the important role that science, in particular the science of Pugh, played. Indeed, in the film, Pugh was depicted as a mad scientist, \n\"belittled, his work passed over without mention\", because to the British establishment of the time, Tuckey maintains, science was perceived as unheroic and to stress its key role would have undermined the heroism of the ascent. In a section of George Band's \"Everest: 50 Years on Top of the World\" (2003) entitled \"Why Did We Succeed?\", Band lists among the factors \"the research of those, such as Griff Pugh, Dr Bradley and the developers of our oxygen sets who all helped to endure that our acclimatization, clothing and equipment were better than ever before\".\n\nHaving been on three previous expedition with Edmund Hillary, the New Zealand mountaineer invited him in 1960–61 on a nine-month-long expedition to the Himalaya on which the long-term effects of altitude on human physiology were studied. A prefabricated hut was carried up to an altitude of 5,800m and experiments on the cardiac and pulmonary response to a prolonged period at altitude were carried out. Here Pugh showed that Mount Everest could be climbed without oxygen, which was shown to be the case by Reinhold Messner and Peter Habeler in their ascent of 1978. An attempt was also made to climb the world's fifth-highest mountain, Makalu, but it was unsuccessful.\n\nPugh was invited by the University of California's Nello Pace in 1956–57 to the Scott Base in Antarctica to carry out research into carbon monoxide poisoning in huts and tents, the adaptation to and tolerance of cold, and the warming effect of solar radiation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11855483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11855483", "title": "Health in Brazil", "text": "Health in Brazil\n\nAccording to the Brazilian Government, the most serious health problems are:\n\nIn 2002, Brazil accounted for 40% of malaria cases in the Americas. Nearly 99% are concentrated in the Legal Amazon Region, which is home to not more than 12% of the population.\n\nThe life expectancy of the Brazilian population increased from 71.16 years in 1998 to 76.2 years in 2016, according to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). The data indicate a significant progress compared with 55.50 years in 1940. According to the IBGE, Brazil will need some time to catch up with Japan, Hong Kong (China), Switzerland, Iceland, Australia, France and Italy, where the average life expectancy is already over 81. Research has shown that Brazil would achieve that level by 2030.\n\nDemographic projections foresee the continuation of this process, estimating a life expectancy in Brazil around 77.4 years in 2020. The decline in mortality at young ages and the increase in longevity, combined with the decline of fecundity and the accentuated increase of degenerative chronic diseases, caused a rapid process of demographic and epidemiologic transition, imposing a new public health agenda in the face of the complexity of the new morbidity pattern.\n\nChild health is a central issue on the public policy agenda of developing countries. Several policies geared to improving child health have been implemented over the years, with varying degrees of success. In Brazil, such policies have led to a significant decline in infant mortality rates over the last 30 years. Despite this improvement, however, mortality rates are still high by international standards and there is substantial variation across Brazilian municipalities, which suggests that differentiated policies should be devised. For example, mortality among indigenous infants in 2000 was more than triple that of the general population, highlighting the importance of tailored health policies to address disparities in health outcomes for Brazil's Indigenous Peoples. Sanitation, education and per capita income are the most important explanatory factors of poor child health in Brazil. Moreover, ethnographic findings of infant mortality rates (IMR) in northeast Brazil are not accurate because the government tends to overlook infant morality rates in rural areas. These issues tend to be inaccurate due to a huge amount of underreporting and causes us to question the cultural validity and the contextual soundness of these mortality statistics. There is a solution to this issue however and scientists stress that quality local-level cultural data can serve to craft as the alternative and appropriate method to measure infant death in Brazil accurately. In order to not overlook infant mortality rates it is also stressed that there needs to be a focus on an ethnography of experience, a vision that cuts to the core of human suffering as it flows from daily life and experiences. For example, one must get down to the flesh, blood and souls of infant death in the impoverished households of Brazilians in order to understand and live with those who have to suffer its tragic consequences. Methods of gathering mortality data also need to be respectful of local death customs and must be implemented in places where death is experienced through a different cultural lens.\n\nUNICEF report shows a rising rate of survival for Brazilian children under the age of five. UNICEF says that out of a total of 195 countries analyzed, Brazil is among the 25 nations with the best improvement in survival rates for children under the age of 5. The report shows that Brazil's infant mortality rate for live births in 2012 was 14 per thousand. Mortality rates for children at one year of age was 18 per thousand, a reduction of 60%. The study went on to show that malnutrition among children of less than two years of age during the period between 2000 and 2008 fell by 77%. There was also a substantial drop in the number of school age children who were not in school, falling from 920,000 to 570,000 during the same period. Cristina Albuquerque, coordinator of the UNICEF Infant Survival and Development Program called the numbers \"an enormous victory\" for Brazil. She added that with regard to public policy aimed at reducing social disparities, Brazil's Bolsa Família program had become an international benchmark in combating poverty, reducing vulnerability and improving quality of life. \"Brazil is going through a great moment, but much remains to be done. So, along with the celebrating it is a good time to reflect on the many challenges still to be overcome,\" Albuquerque declared.\n\nObesity in Brazil is a growing health concern. 52.6 percent of men and 44.7 percent of women in Brazil are overweight. 35% of Brazilians are obese in 2018. The Brazilian government has issued nutrition guidelines which have caught the attention of public health experts for their simplicity and their critical position towards the food industry. The guidelines are summarized at the end of the document as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29736686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29736686", "title": "Indian Board of Clinical Hypnotherapy", "text": "Indian Board of Clinical Hypnotherapy\n\nIndian Board of Clinical Hypnotherapy (IBCH) an independent body with the objective of promoting Hypnotherapy (education and research) in India. Indian Board of Clinical Hypnotherapy an association of Institutions/Schools, Qualified Practising Hypnotherapist and like-minded individuals with interest in pursuing/contributing to the field of Hypnotherapy. A private body (not for profit organisation) with no governmental oversight, working towards spreading awareness about the curative benefits of Hypnotherapy through education and other related activities. IBCH is committed to promote the practice of hypnosis and hypnotherapy.\n\n"}
{"id": "53631070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53631070", "title": "International Society for Affective Disorders", "text": "International Society for Affective Disorders\n\nThe International Society for Affective Disorders is an international psychiatric organisation based in south London that researches mood disorders.\n\nIt was formed in February 2004.\n\nIt represents affective disorders for the World Psychiatric Association (WPA, in Paris). It produces its journal, the \"Journal of Affective Disorders\". It researches chronotherapeutics, and subjects such as winter blues, which can cause large disorders in mood.\n\nIt holds the ISAD biennial conference.\n\nIt is headquartered in the London Borough of Southwark, at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN, previously known as the Institute of Psychiatry) at King's College Hospital in Denmark Hill, on the A215 close to the boundary with the London Borough of Lambeth. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "34856565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34856565", "title": "Karanda Mission Hospital", "text": "Karanda Mission Hospital\n\nKaranda Mission Hospital was established in 1961 to meet the needs of mission stations in the Zambezi River valley which were established as churches and then, as the abundant health care challenges were seen, small dispensaries/clinics were developed along with the churches (then came schools). To help the clinics, the hospital was built. Karanda is in a remote area of northern Zimbabwe nearest to Mount Darwin. Its location is approximately from the capital, Harare.\n\nThe mission complex has a nurse training school for around 55 students and a primary school offering grades 1-7 for children of the hospital staff. The hospital also offers a home-based care program that works with the Evangelical church, a non-denominational church very similar in doctrine to the Evangelical Free church in the US.\n\nThe hospital is licensed for 150 beds and on an average work day sees between 10–20 surgeries and 200–300 outpatients. The hospital's inpatient capacity is 90% full most of the time. The facility is known for the large number of surgical cases it handles as well as treating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, obstetrics, and hydrocephalus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4542923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4542923", "title": "Kardzhali Reservoir", "text": "Kardzhali Reservoir\n\nThe Kardzhali Reservoir is a reservoir formed by the Kardzhali Dam, situated less than 1 km to the west of the town of Kardzhali in Kardzhali Province, Bulgaria. It is the second largest reservoir by volume in the country.\n\nThe dam was constructed between 1957 and 1963 and was commissioned into service in the year of its completion. The reservoir has water catchment area of 1182 km² and maximum volume of 539.9 million m3. When it is filled to its maximum capacity the reservoir covers are of 16.07 km² and its surface has elevation of 324.3 meters above the sea level. The Hydroelectric Power Plant is situated at the foot of the dam.\n\nThe reservoir was recently seeded artificially with European perch. The fish was taken from the Ovcharitsa reservoir.\n\nThe first historical moment of the reservoir was in the 1970s, when it was artificially seeded with catfish. Nowadays there are 100 kg representatives. Later, 45,000 carp were introduced into the reservoir as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "18964112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18964112", "title": "Klement Jug", "text": "Klement Jug\n\nKlement Jug (19 November 1898 – 11 August 1924) was a Slovene philosopher, essayist and mountaineer who died while climbing Mount Triglav. Although he did not publish many works during his lifetime, he became one of the most influential thinkers of the younger generations of Slovenian intellectuals in the interwar period.\n\nJug was born in a wealthy peasant-merchant family in Solkan, Slovenia, then a suburb of the Austro-Hungarian town of Gorizia. He attended the grammar school in Gorizia and then enrolled at the University of Ljubljana where he studied philosophy under the supervision of the Slovene phenomenologist philosopher France Veber. A fervent reader of Kant, Nietzsche and Freud, Jug developed his own philosophy based on the supremacy of the will and the unappealable adherence to ethics and personal responsibility.\n\nSince young age, Jug also practiced extreme alpinism, in which he saw a way to practice the effort self-control. In one of his solitary excursions to the Julian Alps, he died by falling from the northern face of Mount Triglav.\n\nJug left very few written works. During his lifetime, he published only a few essays, while several philosophic and ethical reflections have been found as manuscripts after his death and published posthumously by his closest friends. Nevertheless, his influence has been relatively big. He was considered to be the ideological leader of the younger generations of Slovene students from the Julian March, the western Slovenian region which came under Italian administration after World War I. These youngsters rejected any compromises with Italian Fascists and urged for a radical and organized resistance against the policies of Fascist Italianization. Many of them found in Jug the source for their intellectual and personal inspiration. \n\nAmong Jug's direct disciples were the famous novelist Vladimir Bartol and Zorko Jelinčič, one of the co-founders of the militant anti-fascist organization TIGR. Already in 1925, the two organized the first seminar dedicated to Jug's memory in the village of Krn near Kobarid, in which they discussed the issues of Jug's voluntaristic world view. Due to the effort of Jug's colleagues, his posthumous fame spread in the intellectual circles of interwar Slovenia. The list of his admirors included the author, politician and diplomat Anton Novačan, the poet Oton Župančič, the playwrights Pavel Golia and Ivan Mrak, and the poet and political activist Edvard Kocbek.\n\nMany prominent Slovene thinkers and artists have published their reflections over Jug's fate, including the literary critic Josip Vidmar, the novelist Vladimir Bartol, philosopher Milan Komar, essayist Jože Javoršek, and philosopher and literary critic Taras Kermauner. Jug has also influenced the strong Slovenian mountaineer subculture and the literature which emerged from it; authors who have been influenced by Klement Jug include Igor Škamperle and Dušan Jelinčič. The controversial Slovenian psychologist and therapist Janez Rugelj also wrote on Jug, taking him as a positive example of a self-made man. The sociologist Lev Milčinski, on the other hand, analyzed Jug as an example of a self-destructive and suicidal personality.\n\nIn 1988, the writer and playwright Drago Jančar portraited Jug in the play \"Klement's Fall\" (\"Klementov padec\"). In 2006, a documentary on Klement Jug was filmed and broadcast on Slovenian National Television. A popular Alpine lodge in the upper Soča Valley is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20643069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20643069", "title": "Le Dernier Verre", "text": "Le Dernier Verre\n\nLe Dernier Verre (French for \"The Last Glass\") is a best-selling book by French cardiologist Olivier Ameisen that was published in 2008 and describes the author's experience of curing himself of alcoholism using the muscle relaxant, baclofen.\n\nThe book has been translated to English as \"The End of My Addiction\", and German as \"Das Ende meiner Sucht\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5394780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5394780", "title": "Leslie Keeley", "text": "Leslie Keeley\n\nLeslie Enraught Keeley, M.D. (June 10, 1836 – February 21, 1900) was an American physician, originator of the Keeley Cure.\n\nHe was born in Potsdam, New York on June 10, 1836.\n\nKeeley graduated at the Rush Medical College, Chicago, in 1863, and later entered the Union Army as a surgeon. At the end of the war he moved to Dwight, Illinois, where he began his private medical practice. There, in 1880, he opened a sanatorium for persons addicted to the immoderate use of alcohol and opium. He asserted that \"Alcoholism is a disease and I can cure it.\" His treatment centered on a secret preparation that he said contained bichloride of gold. However, chemical analysis revealed that the proprietary tonic contained 27.55% alcohol plus ammonium chloride, aloin and tincture of cinchona but no gold. His hypodermic injections contained sulfate of strychnine, atropine and boracic acid.\n\nIn 1890, Keeley began selling franchises and by 1893 there were 92 Keeley Institutes in the US, Canada, and Mexico and that number grew to over 200 and expanded to Europe.\n\nIn 1939, \"Time\" magazine reported that \"Unvarying is the traditional Keeley routine. An incoming inebriate pays $160, plus room and board, must stay for 31 days. His weekly whiskey ration is gradually tapered off: eight ounces the first day, six ounces the second, four ounces the third, none from there on. Four times a day he gets gold chloride injections; every two hours he takes a tonic.\" At its height, the clinic in Dwight treated 700 patients per day.\n\nKeeley claimed that when his medicine was administered according to his directions, it had no injurious effects and that 95 per cent of the patients were permanently cured. If they did return to drinking, he insisted that they were cured but that they drank because they choose to do so, not because they were still addicted. However, it was later noted that a \"high percentage of those \"cured\" had relapsed.\"\n\nKeeley published numerous articles in the popular press in addition to pamphlets promoting his therapy, and wrote \"The Morphine Eater, or From Bondage to Freedom\" (1881) and the \"Non-Heredity of Inebriety\" (1896).\n\nHe died on February 21, 1900 in Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe Keeley Institute in Dwight, Illinois was the last to close, doing so in 1966. Despite his therapy being described by medical experts as an example of quackery, Keeley is remembered as one of the first to treat alcoholism as a medical problem. The \"Keeley cure\" is defined in the American Illustrated Medical Dictionary in the 1938 edition as \"a proprietary method of treatment for the alcohol and opium habits by means of gold chloride.\"\n\nKeeley was widely cited as a quack. A 1908 article in the \"Illinois Medical Journal\" stated that \"Leslie Keeley was a common, ordinary quack with a useless remedy which made good by advertising and catching suckers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9146116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9146116", "title": "Luis Simarro Lacabra", "text": "Luis Simarro Lacabra\n\nLuis Simarro Lacabra (6 January 1851 – 19 June 1921) was a Spanish psychiatrist who was born in Rome while his parents were living in Italy. \n\nHe studied medicine in Valencia and Madrid, and in 1877 was appointed director of the Santa Isabel insane asylum at Leganés, outside of Madrid. From 1880 he lived in Paris and studied general anatomy and histology with Louis-Antoine Ranvier and clinical neurology under Jean Martin Charcot. Here he also came under the influence of philosopher Ernest Renan (1823–1892). anatomist Mathias-Marie Duval (1844–1907) and psychiatrist Valentin Magnan (1835–1916). In 1885 he returned to Madrid and opened a private practice, and in 1902 was appointed to the first chair of experimental psychology in Spain.\n\nAs a psychiatrist, Simarro was heavily influenced by developments in Germany, particularly Emil Kraepelin's classification and treatment of the insane, Wilhelm Wundt's theory of experimental psychology and Theodor Ziehen's critical analysis of Wundt's approach to psychology. \n\nNotwithstanding his work in psychiatry, Simarro is largely remembered for a contribution made in histology when he developed a silver bromide modification of Camillo Golgi's silver chromate technique. Famed Spanish histologist Ramon y Cajal recognized Simarro's achievement, and mentioned that it was a milestone that allowed him to abandon general histology and to focus on neurohistology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18735", "title": "Lycopene", "text": "Lycopene\n\nLycopene (from the neo-Latin \"Lycopersicum\", the tomato species) is a bright red carotene and carotenoid pigment and phytochemical found in tomatoes and other red fruits and vegetables, such as red carrots, watermelons, gac, and papayas, but it is not in strawberries or cherries. Although lycopene is chemically a carotene, it has no vitamin A activity. Foods that are not red may also contain lycopene, such as asparagus and parsley.\n\nIn plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms, lycopene is an intermediate in the biosynthesis of many carotenoids, including beta-carotene, which is responsible for yellow, orange, or red pigmentation, photosynthesis, and photoprotection. Like all carotenoids, lycopene is a tetraterpene. It is insoluble in water. Eleven conjugated double bonds give lycopene its deep red color. Owing to the strong color, lycopene is useful as a food coloring (registered as E160d) and is approved for use in the USA, Australia and New Zealand (registered as 160d) and the European Union.\n\nLycopene is a symmetrical tetraterpene assembled from eight isoprene units. It is a member of the carotenoid family of compounds, and because it consists entirely of carbon and hydrogen, is also a carotene. Isolation procedures for lycopene were first reported in 1910, and the structure of the molecule was determined by 1931. In its natural, all-\"trans\" form, the molecule is long and straight, constrained by its system of 11 conjugated double bonds. Each extension in this conjugated system reduces the energy required for electrons to transition to higher energy states, allowing the molecule to absorb visible light of progressively longer wavelengths. Lycopene absorbs all but the longest wavelengths of visible light, so it appears red.\n\nPlants and photosynthetic bacteria naturally produce all-\"trans\" lycopene. When exposed to light or heat, lycopene can undergo isomerization to any of a number of \"cis\"-isomers, which have a bent rather than linear shape. Different isomers were shown to have different stabilities due to their molecular energy (highest stability: 5-cis ≥ all-trans ≥ 9-cis ≥ 13-cis > 15-cis > 7-cis > 11-cis: lowest). In human blood, various \"cis\"-isomers constitute more than 60% of the total lycopene concentration, but the biological effects of individual isomers have not been investigated.\n\nCarotenoids like lycopene are found in photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes in plants, photosynthetic bacteria, fungi, and algae. They are responsible for the bright orange–red colors of fruits and vegetables, perform various functions in photosynthesis, and protect photosynthetic organisms from excessive light damage. Lycopene is a key intermediate in the biosynthesis of carotenoids, such as beta-carotene, and xanthophylls.\n\nThe unconditioned biosynthesis of lycopene in eukaryotic plants and in prokaryotic cyanobacteria is similar, as are the enzymes involved. Synthesis begins with mevalonic acid, which is converted into dimethylallyl pyrophosphate. This is then condensed with three molecules of isopentenyl pyrophosphate (an isomer of dimethylallyl pyrophosphate), to give the 20-carbon geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate. Two molecules of this product are then condensed in a tail-to-tail configuration to give the 40-carbon phytoene, the first committed step in carotenoid biosynthesis. Through several desaturation steps, phytoene is converted into lycopene. The two terminal isoprene groups of lycopene can be cyclized to produce beta-carotene, which can then be transformed into a wide variety of xanthophylls.\n\nLycopene is the pigment in tomato-containing sauces, turning plastic cookware orange, and is insoluble in water. It can be dissolved only in organic solvents and oils. Because of its nonpolarity, lycopene in food preparations will stain any sufficiently porous material, including most plastics. To remove this staining, the plastics can be soaked in a solution containing a small amount of household bleach.\n\nAbsorption of lycopene requires that it be combined with bile salts and fat to form micelles. Intestinal absorption of lycopene is enhanced by the presence of fat and by cooking. Lycopene dietary supplements (in oil) may be more efficiently absorbed than lycopene from food.\n\nLycopene is not an essential nutrient for humans, but is commonly found in the diet mainly from dishes prepared from tomatoes. The median and 99th percentile of dietary lycopene intake have been estimated to be 5.2 and 123 mg/d, respectively.\n\nFruits and vegetables that are high in lycopene include autumn olive, gac, tomatoes, watermelon, pink grapefruit, pink guava, papaya, seabuckthorn, wolfberry (goji, a berry relative of tomato), and rosehip. Ketchup is a common dietary source of lycopene. Although gac (\"Momordica cochinchinensis\" Spreng) has the highest content of lycopene of any known fruit or vegetable (multiple times more than tomatoes), tomatoes and tomato-based sauces, juices, and ketchup account for more than 85% of the dietary intake of lycopene for most people. The lycopene content of tomatoes depends on variety and increases as the fruit ripens.\n\nUnlike other fruits and vegetables, where nutritional content such as vitamin C is diminished upon cooking, processing of tomatoes increases the concentration of bioavailable lycopene. Lycopene in tomato paste is up to four times more bioavailable than in fresh tomatoes. Processed tomato products such as pasteurized tomato juice, soup, sauce, and ketchup contain a higher concentration of bioavailable lycopene compared to raw tomatoes.\n\nCooking and crushing tomatoes (as in the canning process) and serving in oil-rich dishes (such as spaghetti sauce or pizza) greatly increases assimilation from the digestive tract into the bloodstream. Lycopene is fat-soluble, so the oil is said to help absorption. Gac has high lycopene content derived mainly from its seed coats. Cara cara navel, and other citrus fruit, such as pink grapefruit, also contain lycopene. Some foods that do not appear red also contain lycopene, e.g., asparagus, which contains about 30 μg of lycopene per 100-g serving (0.3 μg/g) and dried parsley and basil, which contain around 3.5-7.0 μg/g of lycopene.\n\nIn humans, the Observed Safe Level for lycopene is 75 mg/day, according to one preliminary study.\n\nLycopene is non-toxic and commonly found in the diet, mainly from tomato products. There are cases of intolerance or allergic reaction to dietary lycopene, which may cause diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain or cramps, gas, and loss of appetite. Lycopene may increase the risk of bleeding when taken with anticoagulant drugs. Because lycopene may cause low blood pressure, interactions with drugs that affect blood pressure may occur. Lycopene may affect the immune system, the nervous system, sensitivity to sunlight, or drugs used for stomach ailments.\n\nLycopenemia is an orange discoloration of the skin that is observed with high intakes of lycopene. The discoloration is expected to fade after discontinuing excessive lycopene intake.\n\nIn a review of literature on lycopene and its potential role as a dietary antioxidant, the European Food Safety Authority concluded that evidence was insufficient for lycopene having antioxidant effects in humans, particularly in skin, heart function, or vision protection from ultraviolet light.\n\nAlthough lycopene from tomatoes has been tested in humans for cardiovascular diseases and prostate cancer, no effect on any disease was found. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), in rejecting manufacturers' requests in 2005 to allow \"qualified labeling\" for lycopene and the reduction of various cancer risks, provided a conclusion that remains in effect :\n\n\"...no studies provided information about whether lycopene intake may reduce the risk of any of the specific forms of cancer. Based on the above, FDA concludes that there is no credible evidence supporting a relationship between lycopene consumption, either as a food ingredient, a component of food, or as a dietary supplement, and any of these cancers.\"\n\nA 2017 review concluded that tomato products and lycopene supplementation had small positive effects on cardiovascular risk factors, such as elevated blood lipids and blood pressure. A 2010 review concluded that research has been insufficient to establish whether lycopene consumption affects human health. Lycopene has been studied in basic and clinical research for its potential effects on cardiovascular diseases and prostate cancer, although results through 2017 have not changed the prevailing FDA view that evidence of benefit remains inconclusive.\n\n"}
{"id": "275163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275163", "title": "Medical social work", "text": "Medical social work\n\nMedical social work is a sub-discipline of social work, also known as hospital social work. Medical social workers typically work in a hospital, outpatient clinic, community health agency, skilled nursing facility, long-term care facility or hospice. They work with patients and their families in need of psychosocial help. Medical social workers assess the psychosocial functioning of patients and families and intervene as necessary. Interventions may include connecting patients and families to necessary resources and supports in the community like preventative care; providing psychotherapy, supportive counseling, or grief counseling; or helping a patient to expand and strengthen their network of social supports. Role of a medical social worker is to \"restore balance in an individual’s personal, family and social life, in order to help that person maintain or recover his/her health and strengthen his/her ability to adapt and reintegrate into society\" (Ordre professionnel des travailleurs sociaux du Québec, OPTSQ, 1999). Professionals in this field typically work with other disciplines such as medicine, nursing, physical, occupational, speech and recreational therapy.\n\nMedical social workers in Britain and Ireland were originally known as hospital almoners or \"lady almoners\" until the profession was officially renamed medical social work in the 1960s. In 1895, Mary Stewart became the first lady almoner in Britain with her appointment to the Royal Free Hospital in London for a three-month trial period. Some sources credit Anne Cummins as the \"mother of almoners\" as she had the ability and the funding to first establish a comprehensive social work service at St Thomas's Hospital in London in 1909.\n\nIn 1945, the Institute of Almoners in Britain was formed, which, in 1964, was renamed as the Institute of Medical Social Workers. The Institute was one of the founder organizations of the British Association of Social Workers, which was formed in 1970. In Britain, medical social workers were transferred from the National Health Service (NHS) into local authority Social Services Departments in 1974, and generally became known as hospital social workers.\n\nMedical social work was started in 1921 by Ida Pruitt in Beijing. In-service training was given to social workers for carrying out casework, adoption services and recuperation services.\n\nDr. Clifford Manshardt an American missionary in 1936 started formal training in social work in India through Dorabji Tata Graduate School of Social Work. The first medical social worker was appointed in 1946 in J.J. Hospital, Bombay. In 1960s scope of medical social workers increased in India.\n\nIn Ireland, the origins of medical social work go back to paediatrician Ella Webb, the first physician in Ireland to appoint almoners to work in her dispensary for sick children that she established in the Adelaide Hospital in Dublin, and to Winifred Alcock, the first almoner appointed by Webb in 1918.\n\nThe Massachusetts General Hospital was the first American hospital to have professional social workers on site, in the early 1900s. Garnet Pelton, Ida Cannon and Dr. Richard Clarke Cabot were the central figures of the hospital social work. Clarke credited his approach as similar to that of Anne Cummins in London. Cannon started specific training for medical social workers in 1912. The major duties carried out by medical social workers were case management, data collection, follow ups, care coordination, health education, financial assessment and discounting patient medical fees.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7646242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7646242", "title": "Medicines Act 1968", "text": "Medicines Act 1968\n\nThe Medicines Act 1968 is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom. It governs the control of medicines for human use and for veterinary use, which includes the manufacture and supply of medicines.\n\nThe Act defines three categories of medicine: prescription only medicines (POM), which are available only from a pharmacist if prescribed by an appropriate practitioner; pharmacy medicines (P), available only from a pharmacist but without a prescription; and general sales list (GSL) medicines which may be bought from any shop without a prescription.\n\nThe Act controls supply of the drugs it covers, but does not define any offence of simple possession. Possession of a prescription only drug without a prescription is only an offence if the drug is also controlled under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 and possession is thus specified as an offence. Therefore, for example, possession of a prescription only antibiotic without a prescription is not an offence.\n\nFor description of the legal classification of medicines in the UK see the Royal Pharmaceutical Society web site, and the publication 'Medicines ethics and practice'.\n\nThe Act was introduced following problems with the off-label use of thalidomide.\n\n"}
{"id": "48378726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48378726", "title": "National Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Day", "text": "National Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Day\n\nOn October 7, 2015, a national action day was observed, National Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Day. It arose based on a bill in the House of Representatives of the 114th Congress called The Helping Families in Mental Health<nowiki></nowiki> Crisis Act of 2015, HR2646]. The bill was originally introduced as The Helping Families of Mental Health Crisis Act of 2013, HR3717. HR2646 contains a number of provisions that will serve to reform mental health care for those Americans with serious mental illness (schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, bipolar disorder, major depression). The national day of observance, which was noted in National Review and has been endorsed by National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) will occur in early October each year to raise awareness and encourage action on mental health care policy.\n"}
{"id": "3160300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3160300", "title": "Needlestick injury", "text": "Needlestick injury\n\nA needlestick injury, percutaneous injury, or percutaneous exposure incident or sharps injury is the penetration of the skin by a needle or other sharp object, which has been in contact with blood, tissue or other body fluids before the exposure. Even though the acute physiological effects of a needlestick injury are generally negligible, these injuries can lead to transmission of blood-borne diseases, placing those exposed at increased risk of contracting infectious diseases, such as hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV), and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Among healthcare workers and laboratory personnel worldwide, more than 25 blood-borne viruses have been reported to be caused by needlestick injuries. In addition to needlestick injuries transmission of these viruses can also occur as a result of contamination of the mucous membranes, such as those of the eyes, with blood or body fluids but needlestick injuries make up more than 80% of all percutaneous exposure incidents in the United States. Various other occupations are also at increased risk of needlestick injury, including law enforcement, laborers, tattoo artists, food preparers, and agricultural workers.\n\nIncreasing recognition of the unique occupational hazard posed by needlestick injuries, as well as the development of efficacious interventions to minimize the largely preventable occupational risk, encouraged legislative regulation in the US, causing a decline in needlestick injuries among healthcare workers.\n\nNeedlestick injuries are a common event in the healthcare environment. When drawing blood, administering an intramuscular or intravenous drug, or performing any procedure involving sharps, accidents can occur and facilitate the transmission of blood-borne diseases. Injuries also commonly occur during needle recapping or via improper disposal of devices into an overfilled or poorly located sharps container. Lack of access to appropriate personal protective equipment, or alternatively, employee failure to use provided equipment, increases the risk of occupational needlestick injuries. Needlestick injuries may also occur when needles are exchanged between personnel, loaded into a needle driver, or when sutures are tied off while still connected to the needle. Needlestick injuries are more common during night shifts and for less experienced people; fatigue, high workload, shift work, high pressure, or high perception of risk can all increase the chances of a needlestick injury. During surgery, a surgical needle or other sharp instrument may inadvertently penetrate the glove and skin of operating room personnel; scalpel injuries tend to be larger than a needlestick. Generally, needlestick injuries cause only minor visible trauma or bleeding; however, even in the absence of bleeding the risk of viral infection remains.\n\nIn 2007, the World Health Organization estimated annual global needlestick injuries at 2 million per year, and another investigation estimated 3.5 million injuries yearly. The European Biosafety Network estimated 1 million needlestick injuries annually in Europe. The US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) estimates 5.6 million workers in the healthcare industry are at risk of occupational exposure to blood-borne diseases via percutaneous injury. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates more than 600,000 needlestick injuries occur among healthcare workers in the US annually.\n\nIt is difficult to establish correct figures for the risk of exposure or the incidence of needlestick injuries. First of all it is difficult to observe a needlestick injury, either in oneself or in other persons. Glove perforations in surgeons are considered a reasonable proxy that can be measured objectively. Even though glove perforations can be objectively measured, it is still unclear what the relation is between glove perforations and needlestick injuries. Another problem is underreporting of needlestick injuries. It is estimated that half of all occupational needlestick injuries are not reported. Additionally, an unknown number of occupational needlestick injuries are reported by the affected employee, yet due to organizational failure, institutional record of the injury does not exist. This makes it difficult to determine what the exact risk of exposure is for various medical occupations. Most studies use databases of reported needlestick injuries to determine preventable causes. However this is different from establishing an exposure risk.\n\nAmong healthcare workers, nurses and physicians appear especially at risk; those who work in an operating room environment are at the highest risk. An investigation among American surgeons indicates that almost every surgeon experienced at least one such injury during their training. More than half of needlestick injuries that occur during surgery happen while surgeons are sewing the muscle or fascia. Within the medical field, specialties differ in regard to the risk of needlestick injury: surgery, anesthesia, otorhinolaryngology (ENT), internal medicine, and dermatology have high risk, whereas radiology and pediatrics have relatively low rates of injury.\n\nIn the United States, approximately half of all needlestick injuries affecting health care workers are not reported, citing the long reporting process and its interference with work as their reason for not reporting an incident. The availability of hotlines, witnesses, and response teams can increase the percentage of reports. Physicians are particularly likely to leave a needlestick unreported, citing worries about loss of respect or a low risk perception. Low risk perception can be caused by poor knowledge about risk, or an incorrect estimate of a particular patient's risk. Surveillance systems to track needlestick injuries include the National Surveillance System for Healthcare Workers (NaSH), a voluntary system in the northeastern United States, and the Exposure Prevention Information Network (EPINet), a recording and tracking system that also gathers data.\n\nWhile needlestick injuries have the potential to transmit bacteria, protozoa, viruses and prions, the risk of contracting hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and HIV is the highest. The World Health Organization estimated that in 2000, 66,000 hepatitis B, 16,000 hepatitis C, and 1,000 HIV infections were caused by needlestick injuries. In places with higher rates of blood-borne diseases in the general population, healthcare workers are more susceptible to contracting these diseases from a needlestick injury.\n\nHepatitis B carries the greatest risk of transmission, with 10% of exposed workers eventually showing seroconversion and 10% having symptoms. Higher rates of hepatitis B vaccination among the general public and healthcare workers have reduced the risk of transmission; non-healthcare workers still have a lower HBV vaccination rate and therefore a higher risk. The hepatitis C transmission rate has been reported at 1.8%, but newer, larger surveys have shown only a 0.5% transmission rate. The overall risk of HIV infection after percutaneous exposure to HIV-infected material in the health care setting is 0.3%. Individualized risk of blood-borne infection from a used biomedical sharp is further dependent upon additional factors. Injuries with a hollow-bore needle, deep penetration, visible blood on the needle, a needle located in a deep artery or vein, or a biomedical device contaminated with blood from a terminally ill patient increase the risk for contracting a blood-borne infection.\n\nThe psychological effects of occupational needlestick injuries can include health anxiety, anxiety about disclosure or transmission to a sexual partner, trauma-related emotions, and depression. These effects can cause self-destructive behavior or functional impairment in relationships and daily life. This is not mitigated by knowledge about disease transmission or PEP. Though some affected people have worsened anxiety during repeated testing, anxiety and other psychological effects typically abate after testing is complete. A minority of people affected by needlestick injuries may have lasting psychological effects, including post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nIn cases where an injury was sustained with a clean needle (i.e. exposure to body fluids hadn't occurred), the likelihood of infection is generally minimal. Nonetheless, workers are often obligated to report the incident as per the facility's protocol regarding occupational safety.\n\nAfter a needlestick injury, certain procedures can minimize the risk of infection. Lab tests of the recipient should be obtained for baseline studies, including HIV, acute hepatitis panel (HAV IgM, HBsAg, HB core IgM, HCV) and for immunized individuals, HB surface antibody. Unless already known, the infectious status of the source needs to be determined. Unless the source is known to be negative for HBV, HCV, and HIV, post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) should be initiated, ideally within one hour of the injury.\n\nThe risk of hepatitis B (e antigen positive) seroconversion is estimated at 37-62%, significantly more than other blood borne pathogens. After exposure to the hepatitis B virus (HBV), appropriate and timely prophylaxis can prevent infection and subsequent development of chronic infection or liver disease. The mainstay of PEP is the hepatitis B vaccine; in certain circumstances, hepatitis B immunoglobulin is recommended for added protection.\n\nThe risk of hepatitis C seroconversion is estimated at 0.3-0.74%. Immunoglobulin and antivirals are not recommended for hepatitis C PEP. There is no vaccine for HCV; therefore, post-exposure treatment consists of monitoring for seroconversion. There is limited evidence for the use of antivirals in acute hepatitis C infection.\n\nThe risk of HIV transmission with a skin puncture is estimated at 0.3%. If the status of the source patient is unknown, their blood should be tested for HIV as soon as possible following exposure. The injured person can start antiretroviral drugs for PEP as soon as possible, preferably within three days of exposure. There is no vaccine for HIV. When the source of blood is known to be HIV positive, a 3-drug regimen is recommended by the CDC; those exposed to blood with a low viral load or otherwise low risk can use a 2-drug protocol. The antivirals are taken for 4 weeks and can include nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NtRTIs), Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), protease inhibitors (PIs), or fusion inhibitors. All of these drugs can have severe side effects. PEP may be discontinued if the source of blood tests HIV-negative. Follow-up of all exposed individuals includes counseling and HIV testing for at least six months after exposure. Such tests are done at baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and 6 months and longer in specific circumstances, such as co-infection with HCV.\n\nThe prevention of needlestick injuries should focus on those health care workers that are most at risk.\n\nThe group most at risk are surgeons and surgical staff in the operating room who sustain injuries from suture needles and other sharps used in operations. There are basically three complementary approaches to prevention of these sharps injuries. The first one is the use of tools that have been changed so that they are less likely to lead to a sharps injury such as blunt or taper-point surgery needles and safety engineered scalpels. The second is to start using safe working practices such as the hands-free technique. The third line of prevention is increased personal protective equipment such as the use of two pairs of gloves. In addition to these preventive approaches implementation measures are necessary because the measures are not universally taken up. To achieve better implementation, legislation, education and training are necessary among all health care workers at risk.\n\nAnother large group at risk are nurses but their frequency of exposure is much less than in surgeons. Their main risk comes from the use and disposal of injection syringes. The same prevention approaches can be implemented here. There are many so-called safety engineered devices such as retractable needles, needle shields/sheaths, needle-less IV kits, and blunt or valved ends on IV connectors. The use of extra gloves is less common among nurses.\n\nSome studies have found that safer needles attached to syringes reduce injuries, but others have shown mixed results or no benefit. The adherence to \"no-touch\" protocols that eliminate direct contact with needles during use and disposal greatly reduces the risk of needlestick injuries. In the surgical setting, especially in abdominal operations, blunt-tip suture needles were found to reduce needle stick injuries by 69%. Blunt-tip or tapered-tip suture needles can be used to sew muscle and fascia. Though they are more expensive than sharp-tipped needles, this cost is balanced by the reduction in injuries, which are expensive to treat. Sharp-tipped needles cause 51-77% of surgical needlestick injuries. The American College of Surgeons (ACS) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have endorsed the adoption of blunt-tip suture needles for suturing fascia and muscle. Hollow-bore needles pose a greater risk of injury than solid needles, but hollow-bore needle injuries are highly preventable: 25% of hollow-bore needle injuries to healthcare professionals can be prevented by using safer needles. Gloves can also provide better protection against injuries from tapered-tip as opposed to sharp-tipped needles. In addition, the use of two pairs of gloves (double gloving) can halve the risk of needle stick injury in surgical staff. Triple gloving may be more effective than double gloving, but using thicker gloves does not make a difference. A 2014 Cochrane review, updated in 2017, found low quality evidence showing that safety devices on IV start kits and venipuncture equipment reduce the frequency of needlestick injuries. However, these safety systems can increase the risk of exposure to splashed blood. Education with training for at-risk healthcare workers can reduce their risk of needlestick injuries. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)as a campaign (Stop Sticks) to educate at-risk healthcare workers.\n\nThere are indirect and direct costs associated with needlestick injuries. The US Government Accountability Office (GAO) determined that requiring hospitals to use safety-engineered needles would result in substantial savings due to the reduction in needlestick injuries requiring treatment. Costs of needlestick injuries include prophylaxis, wages and time lost by workers, quality of life, emotional distress, costs associated with drug toxicity, organizational liability, mortality, quality of patient care, and workforce reduction. Testing and follow-up treatment for healthcare workers who experienced a needlestick injury was estimated at $5,000 in the year 2000, depending upon the medical treatment provided. The American Hospital Association found that a case of infection by blood-borne pathogens could cost $1 million for testing, follow-up, and disability payments. An estimated $1 billion annually is saved by preventing needlestick injuries among healthcare workers in the US, including fees associated with testing, laboratory work, counseling, and follow-up costs.\n\nIn the United States, the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act of 2000 and the subsequent Bloodborne Pathogens Standard of 2001 require safer needle devices, employee input, and records of all sharps injuries in healthcare settings. In the US, nonsurgical needlestick injuries decreased by 31.6% in the five years following the passage of the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act. However, this legislation did not affect surgical settings, where injuries increased 6.5% in the same period.\n\nThe Coalition for Safe Community Needle Disposal estimates there are over 7.5 billion syringes used for home medical care in the United States. This large amount of home medical syringes has added to the problem of non-healthcare related needlestick injuries due to mishandling and improper disposal of the syringes. Blood on any sharp instrument may be infectious, whether or not the blood is fresh. HIV and hepatitis C virus are only viable for hours after blood has dried, but hepatitis B virus is stable even when dried. The risk of hepatitis B (HBV) transmission in the community is also increased due to the higher prevalence of HBV in the population than HIV and the high concentration of the virus in the blood.\n\nMany professions are at risk of needlestick injury including law enforcement, waste collectors, laborers, and agricultural workers. There is no standard system for collecting and tracking needlestick injuries in the community, which makes it difficult to measure the full impact of this problem. Law enforcement workers, like healthcare workers, under-report needlestick injuries. In San Diego, 30% of police reported needle sticks. A study of 1,333 police officers in the Denver Police Department found that only 43.4% reported a needlestick injury they received; 42% of which occurred during their evening shift. Most of the needlestick injuries experienced by these workers occurred in their first 5 years of employment. In New York City, a study found a rate of 38.7 exposures (needlesticks and human bites) per 10,000 police officers.\n\nNeedlestick injuries are among the top three injuries that occur among material-recovery facility workers who sort through trash to remove recyclable items from the community-collected garbage. Housekeeping and janitorial workers in public sites, including hotels, airports, indoor and outdoor recreational venues, theaters, retails stores, and schools are at daily risk of exposure to contaminated syringes. Needlestick injuries that occur in children from discarded needles in community settings, such as parks and playgrounds, are especially concerning. Not only for families but also for the entire community. While the exact number of needlestick injuries in children in the US is unknown, even one injury in a child is enough to cause public alarm. Studies in Canada have reported 274 injuries from needlesticks in children with the majority being boys (64.2%) and occurring from needles discarded in streets and/or parks (53.3%).\n\nThere are a number of ways in which needlestick injuries could be prevented. First and foremost, increased education in the community is vital. It is especially important to educate kids while they are young. Studies of injuries from discarded needles have reported that the average age of children injured is between five and eight years. In one study, 15% of injuries occurred in children pretending to use drugs. Therefore, children should be taught at a young age about the risks of handling needles and the correct actions to take if they find a syringe.\n\nMore outreach programs for addiction treatment and infection prevention programs for injection drug users would be very beneficial. Public needle disposal and syringe service programs (SSPs) or needle exchange programs (NEPs) have also proven to reduce the number of needles discarded in public areas. According to the CDC, these programs are effective in the prevention of HIV and they help reduce the risk of infection with hepatitis C virus. Additionally, in 2004, the Environmental Protection Agency came up with a number program options for safe disposal including:\n\n\nIn the event that needlestick prevention programs are not put in place in a given community, a 1994 study suggests an alternative for \"high risk\" areas. The study proposed the implementation of a vaccination effort to give children a routine prophylaxis against hepatitis B to prevent the development of the illness in the event that a child encounters an improperly disposed needle.\n\nNeedle exchange programs were first established in 1981 in Amsterdam as a response from the injecting-drug community to an influx of hepatitis B. Spurred to urgency by the introduction of HIV/AIDS, needle syringe programs quickly became an integral component of public health across the developed world. These programs function by providing facilities in which people who use injecting drugs can receive sterile syringes and injection equipment. Preventing the transmission of blood-borne disease requires sterile syringes and injection equipment for each unique injection, which is necessarily predicated upon access and availability of these materials at no cost for those using them.\n\nNeedle exchange programs are an effective way of decreasing the risk associated with needlestick injuries. These programs remove contaminated syringes from the street, reducing the risk of inadvertent transmission of blood-borne infections to the surrounding community and to law enforcement. A study in Hartford, Connecticut found that needlestick injury rates among Hartford police officers decreased after the introduction of a needle exchange program: six injuries in 1,007 drug-related arrests for the 6-month period before vs. two in 1,032 arrests for the 6-month period after.\n\nData almost universally confirm the value of needle exchange programs, which substantially decrease the risk of HIV among injectable drug users, and do not carry unintended negative consequences. US states that publicly fund exchange programs are associated with reduced rates of HIV transmission, increased availability of sterile syringes among injecting drug users, and increased provision of health and social services to users. States that do not fund needle exchange programs are associated with increased rates of HIV/AIDS.\n\nNevertheless, the US government has explicitly prohibited federal funding for needle exchange programs since 1988, as part of the zero tolerance drug policy in that country. Needle exchange programs have therefore been sparsely implemented in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31146341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31146341", "title": "Nouadhibou Regional Hospital", "text": "Nouadhibou Regional Hospital\n\nNouadhibou Regional Hospital () is a regional hospital in Nouadhibou, Mauritania.\n\n"}
{"id": "44237951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44237951", "title": "Optometer (ophthalmic instrument)", "text": "Optometer (ophthalmic instrument)\n\nA device, used for measuring spherical and/or cylindrical prescription for eyeglasses, from the middle of the 18th century until around 1922, when modern instruments were developed. The term, coined in 1738 by W. Porterfield to describe his Scheiner slit optometer, and used for 200 years to describe many different inventions to measure refractive error of the eye, has completely fallen out of usage today as the task of measuring eyes for spectacles is done with modern instruments, such as the phoropter.\n\nA phoropter is one of several generic names for modern instruments containing an optometer (battery of lenses for determination of optical error), combined with prisms and other attachments for measuring binocularity. The term refractor is another such term, and \"vision tester\" or other descriptive terms are used because phoroptor, spelled with \"-or\", is actually a trademark of one company. \n\nIn the middle of the 19th century, doctors tested for optical error using single hand-held lenses, held one at a time in front of the patient's eye, or in a trial frame. A wooden case with dozens or hundreds of lenses was held on the doctor's lap, or in a case near the patient's chair, as he or she examined the patient.\n\nIn the later part of the 19th century, the United States, Germany, France and the UK were actively inventing numerous mechanical optometers, to speed up the process of bringing lenses before the patients' eyes. Various patented or unpatented optometers were sold throughout the later 19th and turn of the 20th centuries, some containing rotating batteries of lenses in various arrangements, usually with the name of the inventor in front of it.\n\nAround 1910, binocularity was tested using trial frames which sat on the patient's face or on a support bar, with extra testing devices added to the front of the frames, such as Maddox rods, rotating prisms, and phorometers. The refraction part of the exam was done with trial lenses that fit into the back of the same trial frame. Optometer was the generic name for devices, crude and simple, with rotating batteries of sphere and cylinder lenses placed in front of each eye, one at a time, so there was no testing for binocularity. When the optometer and phorometer were combined into single instruments, the modern refractor/phoropter was born, which happened in the middle 1910s when two companies in the New York City area began to market competing versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "37278469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37278469", "title": "Paralympic Charter", "text": "Paralympic Charter\n\nThe Paralympic Charter is the name given to a set of rules and regulations that bind the running of the Paralympic Games. It sets out the constitution of the International Paralympic Committee and other members of the Paralympic movement including national Paralympic committees and other sporting bodies.\n\nThe Paralympic Charter parallels the Olympic Charter.\n\nAcademic commentators have noted that the goals of the Paralympic movement expressed in the Charter and other key documentation are \"vague\" and not necessarily as clearly separated from the Olympic Charter as might be desirable.\n\n"}
{"id": "50216400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50216400", "title": "Pauline Philip", "text": "Pauline Philip\n\nPauline Mary Philip, DBE, has been the Chief Executive of Luton and Dunstable University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust since 2010. She has previously worked for the World Health Organization. She was made an Honorary Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in the 2017 Special Honours.\n\nPhilip was appointed the national urgent and emergency care lead by NHS England in 2016. In 2016 the \"Health Service Journal\" named her as the fifth most influential Chief Executive in the English National Health Service. \n\nShe provides national leadership to ensure the delivery of the urgent and emergency care review and associated elements of the Five Year Forward View.\n"}
{"id": "39357486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39357486", "title": "Protocol system", "text": "Protocol system\n\nA computer-based protocol system is a paradigm providing a set of tools which allow health care providers access to current guidelines which they can apply in practice. Studies have shown that protocols can aid in optimising patient care. There are two types of protocol systems: passive and active.\n\nIn a healthcare setting, a protocol, also called a medical guideline, is a set of instructions which describe a process to be followed to investigate a particular set of findings in a patient, or the method which should be followed to control a certain disease.\n\nPassive protocol systems are a source of information which health care providers have the freedom to choose to consult or not; they are not intrinsically incorporated into the healthcare process. The purpose of a passive protocol system is to give healthcare providers access to information which may remind healthcare providers of steps during patient care which may otherwise be forgotten or changed.\n\nActive protocol systems are specific guidelines for healthcare providers to follow. They are a central way which healthcare is delivered. Examples of active protocol systems include trigger-automated order entry systems and appointment scheduling. Active protocol systems may provide an explanation function which offers background information, definitions, risks, and the rationale that supports specific recommendations.\n"}
{"id": "14651889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14651889", "title": "Red Cross Society of China", "text": "Red Cross Society of China\n\nThe Red Cross Society of China () is the national Red Cross Society in the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe Red Cross Society of China was founded as the Shanghai International Red Cross Committee on March 10, 1904, during the Russo-Japanese War. The founders were a group of Chinese business and political leaders, led by Shanghai tea merchant Shen Dunhe. Shen chose to use the Red Cross aegis for his group because the neutrality provided by the Red Cross symbol allowed Chinese relief teams into the Manchurian war zones to aid Chinese civilians caught in the conflict between Japan and Russia. Shen created a Red Cross organization made up of wealthy Chinese and prominent Westerners living in China. The Red Cross Society, supported by government officials, Chinese elites and Western medical workers provided aid to more than a quarter of a million people in China's northeast.\n\nAfter the end of the Russo-Japanese War, the Chinese Red Cross expanded exponentially, now providing peacetime relief as well. There was no shortage of natural disasters in China for the new group to work on. Floods, famine and fire were endemic in the first half of China's 20th century, along with the outbreak of civil war. The Society opened Red Cross hospitals in Shanghai and in other cities, while local Red Cross chapters blossomed throughout the country, staffed and funded by Chinese eager to participate in patriotic activities, particularly as part of an organization with international connections and an aura of \"modernity.\" By the 1920s, there were over 300 Red Cross chapters in China.\n\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross recognized the Red Cross Society of China in 1912 after the establishment of the Republic of China. The Red Cross Society of China formally joined the International Federation in 1919 and was one of the first members. During the 1920s, the Red Cross Society of China contributed to help other countries hit by natural disasters. In 1906, during the San Francisco earthquake and fire that killed 3,000 and destroyed the city, the Chinese Red Cross sent 20,000 silver taels to its San Francisco counterpart to help with relief efforts. In 1923, after the great Tokyo earthquake, the Chinese Red Cross sent a relief team, crates of medicines, and almost $20,000 (in 1923 Chinese dollars) to Japan. The Society's leadership from the 1920s-1940s was closely tied with the American and British Red Cross societies, the Kuomintang government and the Shanghai business community. In 1937, while the Second Sino-Japanese War was raging on, the Act of Administrative Rules and Procedures of the Republic of China Red Cross Society (中華民國紅十字會管理條例施行細則) was passed, and the society was renamed Red Cross Society of the Republic of China, a society that still exists today, but located in Taiwan.\n\nThe Red Cross Society of the Republic of China (the name of the organization at the time) was naturally very active during the Second Sino-Japanese War, though its operations were mostly limited to the Kuomintang strongholds in southwest China and some areas under Japanese occupation. Invaluable medical supplies from the United States and the United Kingdom were transferred to the Red Cross Society of the Republic of China by their American and British counterparts, through Burma and India. Overseas Chinese from Southeast Asia and around the world also raised funds for the Red Cross Society of the Republic of China, and appeals by Chinese diplomats and advocates around the world convinced the American public to make significant donations to support the Chinese people.\n\nFollowing the outcome of the Chinese civil war, the Red Cross Society, together with other government agencies of the Republic of China, moved to Taiwan. In 1955, the government of the Republic of China declared the Red Cross Society of the Republic of China the sole national humanitarian organization in the country, and a law was enacted that same year. The Communist Party of China re-organized the Red Cross organization in Beijing and was admitted to the International Federation in 1950 under the name of Red Cross Society of China. Following the liberalization of the communist regime after the death of Mao Zedong, a new Red Cross Law was enacted in 1993, allowing the Chinese people to connect with and help each other once again on a private, grassroots basis. The law describes the legal relationship of the Red Cross Society and the PRC government.\n\nThe Hong Kong Red Cross and the Macau Red Cross became autonomous members of the Red Cross Society of China after their handover to the People's Republic of China in 1997 and 1999 respectively.\n\nSince the early 1990s, the Red Cross Society of China has negotiated with the Red Cross Society of the Republic of China to facilitate exchanges of individuals, mostly illegal immigrants or fugitives, between both sides of the Taiwan Strait.\n\nIn 2008, the RCSC received 1.537 billion yuan (about 220 million US dollars) in donations from both domestic and overseas sources, nine times the figure of 2007. Ninety percent of the donation was received for disaster-relief work in Sichuan and other quake-hit areas in China, while the Red Cross Angel Program, which provides medical aid to poor areas, received 104 million yuan, and the Bo'Ai Aid Program for poor students received 36.95 million. The Angel Program helped to train 400 rural doctors, and provided aid to about 7,800 people with leukemia, congenital heart disease, cleft lip and palate, deafness, paraplegy and cancer. The Bo'ai Aid Program trained 100 rural teachers, helped 107 needy students to complete their middle school study, and built 556 Red Cross libraries for rural middle and primary schools. That more than 6.9 million people had benefited from the total of 2,194 clinics, 194 schools and 1,112 libraries the foundation had built throughout the country by the end of 2008.\n\nThe organization came under public scrutiny in 2011 when Guo Meimei, a 20-year-old who claimed to be the general manager of a company called Red Cross Commerce and had boasted online about her luxurious lifestyle, cars and home.\nThis led to public speculation that funds meant for earthquake ravaged areas were instead diverted to internal officials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9594699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594699", "title": "Risk difference", "text": "Risk difference\n\nIn epidemiology, risk difference (RD) or excess risk is the difference between the risk of an outcome in the exposed group and the unexposed group. It is computed as formula_1, where formula_2is the incidence in the exposed group, and formula_3 is the incidence in the unexposed group. If the risk of an outcome is increased by the exposure, the term absolute risk increase (ARI) is used, and computed as formula_1. Equivalently, If the risk of an outcome is decreased by the exposure, the term absolute risk reduction (ARR) is used, and computed as formula_5.\n\nThe inverse of the absolute risk reduction is the number needed to treat, and the inverse of the absolute risk increase is the number needed to harm.\n\nIt is recommended to use absolute measurements, such as risk difference, alongside the relative measurements, when presenting the results of randomized controlled trials. Their utility can be illustrated by the following example of a hypothetical drug which reduces the risk of colon cancer from 1 case in 5000 to 1 case in 10,000 over one year. The relative risk reduction is 0.5, while the absolute risk reduction is 0.0001. The absolute risk reduction reflects the low probability of getting colon cancer in the first place, while reporting only relative risk reduction, would run into risk of readers exaggerating the effectiveness of the drug.\n\nAuthors such as Ben Goldacre believe that the risk difference is best presented as a natural number - drug reduces 2 cases of colon cancer to 1 case if you treat 10,000 people. Natural numbers, which are used in the number needed to treat approach, are easily understood by non-experts.\n\nRisk difference can be estimated from a 2x2 contingency table:\nThe point estimate of the risk difference is\n\nThe sampling distribution of RD is approximately normal, with standard error\n\nThe formula_8 confidence interval for the RD is then\n\nwhere formula_10 is the standard score for the chosen level of significance.\n\n"}
{"id": "3956650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3956650", "title": "SUBSAFE", "text": "SUBSAFE\n\nThe Submarine Safety Program (SUBSAFE), is a quality assurance program of the United States Navy designed to maintain the safety of its submarine fleet; specifically, to provide maximum reasonable assurance that submarine hulls will stay watertight, and that they can recover from unanticipated flooding.\n\nSUBSAFE covers all systems exposed to sea pressure or critical to flooding recovery. All work done and all materials used on those systems are tightly controlled to ensure the material used in their assembly as well as the methods of assembly, maintenance, and testing are correct. They require certification with traceable quality evidence which track the item from the point of manufacture (including all records of the creation of the product, i.e. source materials as well as smelting and hardening process for metals) to the point of installation within a SUBSAFE boundary. These measures increase the cost of submarine construction and maintenance.\n\nSUBSAFE addresses only flooding; mission assurance is not a concern, simply a side benefit. Other safety programs and organizations regulate such things as fire safety, weapons systems safety, and nuclear reactor systems safety.\n\nFrom 1915 to 1963, the United States Navy lost 16 submarines to non-combat related causes. Since SUBSAFE began in 1963, only one submarine, the non-SUBSAFE-certified , has been lost.\n\nOn 10 April 1963, while on a deep test dive about 200 miles off the northeast coast of the United States, was lost with all hands. The loss of the lead ship of a new, fast, quiet, deep-diving class of submarines led the Navy to re-evaluate the methods used to build its submarines. A \"\"Thresher\" Design Appraisal Board\" determined that, although the basic design of the was sound, measures should be taken to improve the condition of the hull and the ability of submarines to control and recover from flooding casualties. It included addressing the following issues on \"Thresher\":\n\n\nSUBSAFE certification is carried out in four areas; Design, Material, Fabrication, & Testing. The exact procedures are documented in the initial design & construction for new submarines, while undergoing routine maintenance in naval depots, and in the fleet maintenance manual for operating submarines. During each step, quality evidence is collected, reviewed, approved, and stored for the life of the submarine. This process is reinforced with external and internal audits.\n\nAfter the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia, the Columbia Accident Investigation Board described SUBSAFE as \"successful safety programs and practices that could be models for NASA\". Following this recommendation, a number of exchanges and conferences have been held between SUBSAFE naval personnel and NASA.\n"}
{"id": "28605291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28605291", "title": "Safety in NASCAR", "text": "Safety in NASCAR\n\nSafety in NASCAR has evolved into one of the biggest concerns in stock car racing's largest sanctioning body. Mainly after the death of Dale Earnhardt, a seven time Winston Cup Series champion, NASCAR has decided to change all of their safety policies, such as the use of the HANS device. Since 2001, NASCAR has also changed the cars for the Sprint Cup Series and the Xfinity Series. NASCAR's safety policy includes the racing fire suit, carbon fiber seating, and roof flaps.\n\nDuring a series of deaths of several drivers, NASCAR began researching a new, safer car. After a seven-year program, NASCAR presented a design for a new car. The new car, known as the Car of Tomorrow, features a reinforced roll cage. The left side skin has a steel plate for better resiliency in crashes. The roof is four inches higher and two inches wider for safety in rolls. First implemented in the Car of Tomorrow was the separated wing. From 2009-early 2010, the wing was blamed for several flips. Starting in the 2010 spring Martinsville race, the wing was replaced by the traditional spoiler. Also new to the Car of tomorrow, is the stronger smaller fuel cell for a reduced risk of fires. The windshield is made of Lexan which gains its strength from its flexibility. Under normal circumstances, the glass bends and absorbs the force of the object. Implemented in a limited schedule in 2007, the car was immediately criticized by the drivers for lack of handling.\n\nIn 2013, a sixth-generation stock car was unveiled.\n\nNASCAR drivers are required to wear a fire-retardant suit and underwear along with certified helmets. This suit serves a dual purpose of identifying the driver outside the car, and protecting them during a fire. The driver also wears fire retardant shoes and gloves. During long races, the heat of the engine might warm the feet to uncomfortable levels, so most drivers wear a heat shield on the bottom of their shoes.\n\nThe helmets serve many safety purposes in the NASCAR circuit. First, the helmet protects the driver from injuries. Second, the helmet has hook-ups for radio to communicate with the spotter and crew chief. Third, the helmets sometimes have visors that reduce the sun's glare so the driver can have better vision. Fourth they have anchor points that connect to the H.A.N.S. device to reduce the risk of neck injuries and concussions in a crash.\n\nThe seats that the drivers sit in have evolved over the past few years. Most of the seats found in the race cars wrap around the driver's rib cage. This provides some support during a crash, spreading the load out over the entire rib cage instead of letting it concentrate in a smaller area. Some of the newer seats wrap around the driver's shoulders as well, which provides better support because the shoulders are more durable than the rib cage. The introduction of carbon fiber seats has also helped improve safety, as carbon fiber absorbs more energy from an impact than the traditional aluminum seats.\n\nThe seat belts used are five- or six-point harness, which have two straps coming down over the driver's shoulders, two straps wrapping around the waist, and one or two coming up between the legs. Since a string of accidents in 2000 and 2001 that killed Adam Petty, Kenny Irwin, Tony Roper and Dale Earnhardt (plus several other drivers in minor circuits) under similar circumstances, NASCAR has made it mandatory for the drivers to wear the HANS device. Though NASCAR allowed another system, the Hutchens device, in the past, since 2005 HANS is the only head and neck restraint device allowed for use. Recently, Hutchens has been allowed again by NASCAR, as seen by its usage by Kyle Larson and Austin Dillon. The HANS device reduces the risk of whiplash during a crash.\n\nAll cars must have a nylon window net to protect the driver from flying debris and to contain the driver’s arms during a crash. In addition, the drivers are instructed to lower the window net after a wreck to signify that they are uninjured.\n\nAs a safety measure to reduce speeds at the two high-banked superspeedways (Daytona and Talladega), restrictor plates are used. There are some tracks, however, where restrictor plates are not mandated and therefore see faster speeds—specifically Atlanta Motor Speedway and Texas Motor Speedway. While Atlanta is generally considered the fastest track, restrictor plates are not mandated there. In 2004 and 2005, higher qualifying speeds were posted at Texas, earning it the title of the circuit's fastest track. Unrestricted, Sprint Cup cars produce over 750 horsepower (560 kW) and can run at speeds in excess of 200 mph. Rusty Wallace completed a 2004 test for NASCAR at Talladega in which he used an unrestricted motor to complete average lap speeds of and top speeds near . The 2010 width is 63/64-inch. This is the largest carburetor restrictor plate opening since the one-inch mandate in 1988, the first year the horsepower-reducing plates were used in the Cup Series at Daytona.\n\nUnfortunately, the restrictor plates have an unintended effect on the race. Because of the reduced horsepower of the cars, the cars form large packs. During a race it is not uncommon to see thirty or more lead changes during a race. This also is the source of the Big One. When a driver crashes, usually, they take that pack with them. During the 2010 Coke Zero 400, 21 of the 43 cars crashed. This is a safety concern that has puzzled NASCAR. However, an unexpected consequence of the introduction of the Car of Tomorrow and re-paving of Daytona and Talladega track surfaces has been the separation of the pack into two-car pairs.\n\nSince the 2012 season, NASCAR Cup cars now have fuel injection instead of carburetors, but restrictor plates are still being used.\n\nIn 1994, NASCAR introduced roof flaps to the car, which is designed to keep cars from getting airborne and possibly flipping down the track. Following Rusty Wallace's crashes at Daytona and Talladega, Penske Racing designed the original roof flaps. NASCAR team owner Jack Roush helped improve on the design of the roof flaps, in conjunction with Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Daytona, Florida, USA. During spins, as a result of accidents or loss of handling, as the car rotates it eventually reaches an angle where the oncoming air reacts with the profile of the vehicle in the same manner as a wing. If the speed is high enough air flowing over the car's overall airfoil shape will create sufficient lift to force the car to become airborne. To prevent this, NASCAR developed a set of flaps that are recessed into pockets on the roof of the car. As a car is turned around and reaches an angle where significant lift occurs, the low pressure above the flaps causes them to deploy. The first flap oriented 140 degrees from the centerline of the car typically deploys first. After flap deployment, higher pressure air is forced through an air tube which connects to a second flap, deploying it. This second flap ensures that, should the car continue to spin, no further lift will be created as the vehicle's angle changes. The deployment of these flaps eliminates most of the lift on the vehicle. The roof flaps generally keep the cars on the ground as they spin, alt.\n\nBeginning in 2002 (at Indianapolis), many tracks were retrofitted with SAFER barriers along the walls of the track. These walls absorb the energy of an impact better than concrete walls, while maintaining integrity better than traditional steel barriers. This system costs millions of dollars to install, and the creation of this wall, which connects to the original wall, took many more millions to design and create. Some SAFER barriers were installed in 2003 at Richmond (July), and Homestead, others in 2004 at Talladega, Daytona (July, before 2004 Pepsi 400) and other tracks, in 2005 at Dover and at Watkins Glen in 2010. The Iowa Speedway is the first track that was built with the SAFER Barrier around the entire track. Starting in 2015, the majority of NASCAR tracks have SAFER Barriers surrounding the entire perimeter of the outside walls.\n\nPit road safety has become a major focus of NASCAR officials in recent years since the 1990 Atlanta Journal 500, where the rear tire changer for Melling Racing was killed in a pit road crash.\n\nBy April 1991, NASCAR implemented the current policy of pit road speed limits. The speed limit depends on the size of the track and the size of pit road. NASCAR uses an electronic scoring system, similar to the VASCAR system, to monitor the speeds of cars on pit road by measuring the time it takes to get from checkpoint to checkpoint. The cars are not equipped with speedometers, therefore during the pre-race warm-up laps, the cars are driven around the track at the pit road speed limit behind the pace car. The drivers then select a gear (usually 2nd gear) and observe and record the corresponding RPM on their respective tachometer.\n\nBy 1994, almost every form of motorsport had adopted pit lane speed limits, following NASCAR's cue.\n\nNASCAR does not allow the use of pit road specific rev limiters as found in most other forms of racing. Allowing a pit road limiter would require the addition of several electronic components into the car, and NASCAR has long opposed the installation of electronics into cars, citing the decline of open wheel racing once technology was introduced.\n\nSince 2002, NASCAR has implemented a rule where all over the wall pit members are required to wear helmets, no visors needed, full fire suits, and gloves; while the gas man must wear a fire apron as well as the suit. While it is not required yet, it is recommended that tire changers wear safety glasses to prevent eye injuries from lug nuts thrown off the car and fuel spills. Some tire changers wear face shields or goggles.\n\nBeginning in 2008, teams in the top three series may not roll a car more than three pit box lengths to push start a car. This prevents teams from pushing a car the length of pit road when the starter motor fails. Also, outside tires that have been removed from a vehicle during a pit stop can no longer be free-rolled from the outside of the pit box to the pit wall; rather, they must be hand-directed to the inner half of the pit box before being released.\n\nEffective in 2012, teams may not plug a cable that connects an engine control unit to a computer during a pit stop with the car on pit lane. In such cases, the car must be in the garage area for the team to run the cable from the car to the computer. This rule was implemented for the Sprint Cup Series, which switches to electronic fuel injection for 2012.\nAs with changes to car models, NASCAR will institute new rules during a season if it deems it necessary to enhance safety.\n\nIn contrast with open-wheel, sports car, and touring car governing bodies, NASCAR does not allow race cars to have wing mirrors. Drivers may still use a rear-view mirror and mirrors attached to the roll bar, but no mirror can extend outside of the car. As a result, they are left with large blind spots. In NASCAR’s more prominent series, spotters are used to combat this problem. The spotter’s purpose is to relay information about where cars in these blind spots are to the driver via two-way radio. Spotters also advise drivers on navigating track-obstructing crashes and may relay messages from one driver to another. NASCAR requires spotters at all times a car is on the track, including series in practice, qualifying, and the race. In many cases, a spotter is a former driver.\n\nAt some tracks, mostly the road courses, NASCAR mandates multiple spotters at key locations around the track.\n\n"}
{"id": "8476017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8476017", "title": "Sam Shoemaker", "text": "Sam Shoemaker\n\nSamuel Moor Shoemaker III DD, STD (December 27, 1893 – October 31, 1963) was a priest of the Episcopal Church. Considered one of the best preachers of his era, whose sermons were syndicated for distribution by tape and radio networks for decades, Shoemaker served as the rector of Calvary Episcopal Church in New York City, the United States headquarters of the Oxford Group during the 1930s, and later at Calvary Episcopal Church in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Sam Shoemaker's interdenominational focus and the Oxford Group were significant influences for the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous. Bill Wilson attended Oxford Group meetings at Calvary Church, and Sam Shoemaker also helped start an Oxford Group chapter in Akron, Ohio, where Dr. Bob Smith became involved.\n\nShoemaker's contributions and service to Alcoholics Anonymous had a worldwide effect. The philosophy that Shoemaker codified, in conjunction with Bill Wilson, is used in almost every country around the world to treat alcoholism. Similar programs are used to help relatives of alcoholics, as well as people suffering with other addictions such as to narcotics.\n\nSerious disagreements with Oxford Group founder Frank Buchman led Shoemaker to separate from Buchman in 1941. Sam Shoemaker and his followers later formed \"Faith At Work\" as a continuation of his interdenominational conference and publication projects.\n\nShoemaker was born in a rented house on Read Street in Baltimore, Maryland on December 27, 1893 to Samuel Moor Shoemaker, Jr. (later chairman of the Board of Regents of the University of Maryland) and Nellie Whitridge (later president of the Women's Auxiliary of the Episcopal Diocese of Maryland), who had met at Emmanuel Church in Baltimore, where his uncle was rector.\n\nTwo years later, the young family moved to his late paternal grandfather's property, 'Burnside', about 10 miles north of Baltimore at the entrance to the Green Spring Valley. In 1898, his father turned Burnside into a dairy farm, with a prize herd of Guernsey cattle, though his grandfather had preferred Jerseys. Sam Shoemaker was well aware of his privileged upbringing: Mennonite Schumachers had moved from Germany, Holland and Switzerland hundreds of years earlier, converted to Quakerism under the influence of William Penn's missionaries and Anglicised their surname as they moved to Germantown, which became a Philadelphia neighborhood. One of his ancestors of the same name had twice served as Philadelphia's mayor, and his paternal grandfather (who died in 1884 and for whom both Sam's father and young Sam were named), although born in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana, made his fortune organizing the Great Western Express transportation line between Philadelphia and Baltimore. His paternal grandmother, the Victorian matriarch who raised him as an Episcopalian, was Augusta Chambers Eccleston, of Chestertown, Maryland, daughter of Maryland Court of Appeals Judge John Bowers Eccleston (1794-1860) and sister of the Rev. John H. E. Eccleston, whose Emmanuel Episcopal Church was decorated with flowers from the family's greenhouses. A more distant John C. Eccleston (1828-1912) served as a priest in Richmond County, New York. Sam's maternal grandfather, John Augustus Whitridge, had a fleet of clipper ships, although he died when Sam was 13. Shoemaker later became known for a slight southern inflection in his speech, which he attributed not to these relatives, but to his lifelong friend Hen Bodley, and to James (actually Richard Hugh Gwathney), a longtime family servant, who had been born in Fredericksburg, Virginia.\n\nWhen Sam was 14, he was sent to St. George's, an Episcopal boarding school in Newport, Rhode Island run by the Rev. John B. Diman, who later converted to Roman Catholicism and founded the Portsmouth Priory near the school. Sam, homesick, initially did not feel comfortable among the \"Yankees.\" He also did not consider himself a good student, but did hold several positions during his two years at the school, including as president of the missionary society.\n\nUpon graduating in 1912, Shoemaker attended Princeton University, as had his father. A fan of President Woodrow Wilson, Shoemaker became acquainted with the political controversies of the day, and after his sophomore year traveled to Europe. Upon returning, Shoemaker and three other students protested war propaganda and military drills at the university. At Princeton, Shoemaker met Robert Speer, John Mott and Sherwood Eddy through the World Student Christian Federation. He became interested in personal evangelism and missionary work, as well as the relatively new ecumenical movement.\n\nIn 1917, with the blessing of the Rt. Rev. John Gardner Murray, bishop of Maryland, Sam Shoemaker went to China to start a branch of the YMCA and teach business courses at the Princeton-in-China Program. Shoemaker spent several years in China, but attracted few converts until he came under the influence of the Oxford Group and Frank Buchman. A follower of Dr. Mott as well as leader of Penn State's Y group, Buchman advised Shoemaker to look inside himself, and to talk about his personal experiences. Buchman also told Shoemaker about the essence of the Sermon on the Mount being four absolutes: honesty, purity, unselfishness and love. After contemplating his own inadequacy compared to those absolutes, Shoemaker decided to let God guide his life. He returned to Princeton in 1919 to head the Philadelphian Society, a campus Christian organization which he had led during his senior year.\n\nIn 1920, bishop Murray ordained Shoemaker a deacon in the Episcopal Church. Shoemaker then returned to his earlier post at Princeton through the school year, 1922–23. There, he maintained his ties with the Oxford Group; Buchman also made frequent visits to Princeton. However, by the time Shoemaker returned to Princeton, the movement's personal evangelism had begun to gather both friends and foes in England (where Buchman had started his \"First Century Christian Fellowship\" at Oxford and Cambridge) as well as America.\n\nAfter completing his missionary year at Princeton, Shoemaker entered General Theological Seminary in New York. During his second year, Dr. Charles Louis Slattery of Grace Church off lower Broadway appointed him as a part-time assistant. After graduation and ordination, with his bishop's approval, Shoemaker and two British university graduates traveled with Buchman through Europe and the Middle East, exploring the meaning of Christian discipleship in missions and hospitals as they had in Beijing. Between Egypt and India Shoemaker received a cable and letter from the vestry at Calvary Church (Manhattan), a then-dwindling but storied missionary congregation in a once-fashionable but changing neighborhood that wanted the energetic youth to become their rector.\n\nBishop William T. Manning of New York approved of the Oxford Group and Shoemaker's taking the helm at Calvary Church in the Gramercy Park neighborhood. At Calvary, where he became rector after a successful two-year trial term, Shoemaker constantly balanced both the institutional and sacramental aspects of the church's life, as well as his personal faith as influenced by Buchman and the Oxford Group. He held outdoor services in nearby Madison Square beginning in the summer of 1927, attracting new parishioners through music as well as his sermons, and began transforming the church school that winter term.\nFor the next eleven years, Sam and Helen Shoemaker managed to combine the diverse interests of Calvary Church with the life style and program of the Oxford Group. The church's ministry grew exponentially, by about 100 parishioners at the Sunday morning service in his first year, and another 100 during the second. However, not all of Calvary's members could have been committed to the radical life style and \"hot gospelling\" of the Oxford Group. Selling some church lots on 22nd Street to build a new seven-story Calvary House in place of the old rectory also caused controversy.\n\nIn 1926, Shoemaker founded the 'Faith at Work' movement (later called LUMUNOS and Moral Re-Armament in the years immediately preceding World War II) out of his passion for personal witness in the workplace. Faith at Work begun circa 1926 in a mission at Calvary. On Thursday evenings through approximately 1936, lay persons both presented their witness of their life as Christians in the workaday world and were trained to witness to that world.\n\nHowever, when the Great Depression hit and continued, controversy grew around Shoemaker. In 1932, the Calvary vestry granted him an extended leave of absence to bring his ideas to a wider audience. \n\n\"We must all realize that the work which has been characteristic of Calvary Parish for the past few years is part of a much larger movement which is making a tremendous spiritual contribution in many countries today. A First Century Christian Fellowship or the Oxford Group has been called by Archbishop William Temple of York one of the main movements of the Spirit in our time. \n\"The evident need of our country in the world of spiritual awakening lays a special obligation upon us all at Calvary to share with others what has helped us. \n\"When therefore the Rector asked us to come to a special meeting of the vestry on June 15, and proposed to us that he be released for a six month sabbatical leave during which time he would devote himself entirely to the furtherance of this important work, (with the International Team of the Oxford Group) throughout America, we felt that this was a call which neither he nor we should disregard. Further we wanted him to go as our representative.\"\nAround 1938, Faith at Work transformed into Moral Re-Armament. However, controversy grew because the latter dissociated from Christian churches and New Testament orientation. Moral Re-Armament also took an increasing share of Shoemaker's time and the facilities of Calvary House in New York. Shoemaker re-evaluated his priorities, including with Frank Buchman and the Oxford Group, as well as his commitment to evangelism, devotion to the Church of Christ in general and to the Episcopal Church. Efforts to work through these concerns in 1940 and 1941 proved fruitless. In the closing months of 1941, Calvary Church's vestry formally asked Moral Re Armament to stop using Calvary House.\n\nShoemaker had become involved in radio preaching, and in 1946, Dr. Frank Goodman of the Federal Council of Churches offered Shoemaker a daily five-minute spot on station WJZ. That proved successful, leading to a Sunday half hour broadcast on station WOR, and another half-hour program called \"Faith in our Time\".\n\nShoemaker's fame led him to receive a call (which he declined) to become Dean of San Francisco Cathedral in 1950. However, the following year, after celebrating his own quarter century of ministry at Calvary in New York, Calvary Church in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania called Shoemaker to serve as its rector. The Bishop of Pittsburgh called to urge him to accept, as did a group of Pittsburgers who called themselves the 'Golf Club crowd'. He ultimately did, and in 1955 launched what he called the interdenominational 'Pittsburgh Experiment,' seeking to bring Christianity into everyday life, and about which he wrote \"The Experiment of Faith\"(1957). The Pittsburgh Jaycees named him their Man of the Year in 1956, and the previous year Newsweek named him among the country's ten best preachers.\n\nWhile based in Pittsburgh, Shoemaker continued to tape his sermons as the \"Episcopal Hour\" (and during 1957-1958 the \"Art of Living\") for distribution by the National Council of the Churches of Christ. Shoemaker also evangelized among young people and in the surrounding area, including setting up an Oxford Group meeting in Akron, Ohio. Shoemaker also had a half hour radio show called \"Faith that Works.\" After the break with the Oxford Group in 1941 mentioned below, Faith at Work meetings also resumed.\n\nHis wife, Helen Smith Shoemaker, whom he met at Princeton and married in 1925, was an author and sculptor as well as fellow church leader. They had two daughters, one of whom married a missionary who served in Asia, and the other of whom also traveled extensively abroad as the wife of a State Department official.\n\nDeclining health caused Shoemaker to retire from Calvary Church and return home to Burnside, although he continued to broadcast Sunday sermons on the \"Faith that Works\" radio program from WBAL in Baltimore. He died after a prolonged illness on the eve of All Saints' Day, 1963, and was buried after a service at St. Thomas Church in Owings Mills, Baltimore County. He was interred in the family plot in the St. Thomas churchyard, as was his wife who died in 1993.\n\nOn November 7, 1963, an additional memorial service was held in his honor at Calvary Church in Pittsburgh, and later yet another at Calvary Church in Manhattan, with Dr. Norman Vincent Peale contributing material for the commemorative edition of 'Faith at Work' magazine.\n\nThe Episcopal Church in the United States of America honors Shoemaker with a feast day on its liturgical calendar on January 31.\n\nBill Wilson credited Sam Shoemaker as a key source of the ideas underpinning Alcoholics Anonymous:\n\"It was from Sam Shoemaker that we absorbed most of the Twelve Steps of Alcoholics Anonymous, steps that express the heart of AA's way of life. Dr. Silkworth gave us the needed knowledge of our illness, but Sam Shoemaker had given us the concrete knowledge of what we could do about it, he passed on the spiritual keys by which we were liberated. The early AA got its ideas of self-examination, acknowledgment of character defects, restitution for harm done, and working with others straight from the Oxford Group and directly from Sam Shoemaker, their former leader in America, and from nowhere else.\"\n\nAlthough Bill Wilson later said in an address about Shoemaker at the St Louis AA convention in 1955 alongside Father Ed. \"It is through Sam, that most of our principles have come, that is he has been the connecting link for them, it is what Ebby learned from Sam and what Ebby told me that makes up the linkage between Sam the man of religion, and ourselves. How well I remember that first day I caught sight of Sam, it was a Sunday service in his church. I was still rather gun-shy and diffident about churches. I can still see him standing there before the lectern, and Sam's utter honesty, his tremendous forthrightness, his almost terrible sincerity struck me deep. I shall never forget it.\"\n\nShoemaker also addressed an AA group in Charlotte, North Carolina, June 17, 1962 saying:To set the record straight, that there has gotten going in AA, a kind of rumor, that I had a lot to do with the 12 steps. I didn't have anymore to do with those 12 steps other than that book had, those twelve steps, I believe came to Bill by himself, I think he told me they came to him in about 40 minutes and I think its one of the great instances of direct inspiration that I know in human history, inspiration which doesn't only bring material straight down outta heaven, but brings rather I think from God the ability to interpret human experience in such a way that you distill it down into transmissible principles, I compare it to Moses going up on a mountain and bringing down Ten tables of the Law, I don't think that's the first time Moses ever thought about righteousness, but I'm glad he went up there and got those ten and brought em down and gave em to us. And I'm glad Bill got quiet for those 40 minutes, until he finished off these 12 steps and I believe they have only been changed by about one word. Bill said at the end of this talk \"Who invented AA?, It was God almighty that invented AA, but this is the story of how we learned to be Free.\" And he closed by saying \"God grant that AA and the program of recovery, and unity, and service be a story that continues into the future as long as God needs it.\" Praise be to God for it, and for the life of that fellow and all those who were with him in the beginnings of this incredible movement.\n\nThe Thursday evening sessions already alluded to, which were devoted to lay witnesses, provided models for subsequent Faith at Work programs. In it can be traced the lineaments of the \"\"witnesses\",\" still a part of the Faith at Work Conference ministry and of the spate of personal witness articles which appeared in the Calvary Evangel, and the Evangel and have continued in the pages of Faith At Work magazine. The \"\"Lay Witness Missions\",\" now conducted under other auspices than Faith at Work, also had their beginnings in the Thursday evening meetings.\n\nThe Thursday night \"witness\" sessions were paralleled by an activity which began in the Calvary House boiler room when the janitor, Herbie Lantau, witnessed to a painter named Bill Levine. They were later joined by Ralston Young, Red Cap #42, from Grand Central Station. Ralston did his witnessing to the people whose baggage he handled and later to groups that gathered for prayer in a car placed in a siding, on Track 13, at Grand Central.\n\nThis small group joined some others who were disenfranchised when the split came with MRA in 1942. They and many others met with Irving Harris whose work at the Calvary Evangel and later with its successors covered a period of over three decades. Irving gave structure to the Thursday evening services and was later the enabler of the Monday groups. These were to continue in one form or another until Faith at Work moved to Columbia, Maryland, in 1971.\n\nAccording to Helen Shoemaker, Sam believed that \"small group action ... always started with personal counseling\" and then continued in the group. This is probably a carry-over from Sam's work in the Oxford Group where conversion or change was the starting point and the group sharing followed. Sam's often repeated triad, \"Get changed, get together, and get going\" also reflects this order. We shall have occasion to return to the topic in a subsequent section. \nAn activity related to the Thursday night \"witness\" services was the work of \"Alcoholics Anonymous.\" AA began under Sam's inspiration and meetings were held every Tuesday night in the Great Hall of Calvary House. The starting points of Faith at Work and AA were similar, although the latter obviously addressed itself to a more particular audience.\n\nThe first week-end conference of Faith at Work, the progenitor of hundreds of such conferences to be conducted all over the country, in subsequent years was held at Calvary House in 1943. The means and methods adopted for the conference included: \n1) the Conversion of Individuals to Christ; 2) Listening to God; 3) Loyalty to the Church and the Bible; 4) Fellowship, Prayer, and Training Groups; 5) Literature; 6) Impact on Situations; 7) Cooperation between Christian Groups and People. Of these methods, the first, second, and fourth have strong affinities with the procedures of the Oxford Group.\nA Meeting in Print\nFaith at Work would probably never have come into existence as an independent movement if it had not been for the growing influence of The Calvary Evangel, later called The Evangel, a magazine of Faith at Work, and still later simply Faith at Work. \nThe Calvary Evangel started out as the monthly church publication of Calvary Church providing both parish information and fairly traditional inspiration from the time of its inception in 1888 until it was taken over by Sam Shoemaker and his friends in 1925. In 1930, Irving Harris became the editor of The Evangel on a part-time basis and from that time until Sam Shoemaker's departure for Pittsburgh at the end of 1951, it reflected faithfully the life style and point of view of its leadership. \nIn 1942, the editor spoke of The Evangel as \"a magazine for life changing and spiritual continuance and a regular means of keeping in touch with one another.\" \nA superficial analysis of the contents of The Evangel in the period 1925-51 suggests that in addition to serving as a newsletter, the magazine provided two kinds of input: \n\n• stories or witnesses of particular personal experiences of Christ and His power to change lives, and \n• practical but more general and professional input on how to live the Christian life in a more formal and practical way. \nSam Shoemaker's description of the Faith at Work magazine is apt for this period of the organization's life: \nFaith at Work is not a popular \"how to get ahead\" manual. It is not concerned with offering faith as the key to wealth, popularity, and success. It makes no attempt to prove that through faith life can be made easy; rather it tries to make clear that through faith at work life can be made great. Faith at Work is a meeting in print.\"\nShoemaker wrote over thirty books, about half of which were circulating before A.A.’s 12 Steps were first published in the Big Book in 1939. Shoemaker's books were circulated in New York, Akron, and the Oxford Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5019341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5019341", "title": "Self-advocacy", "text": "Self-advocacy\n\nSelf-advocacy refers to the civil rights movement for people with developmental disabilities, also called cognitive or intellectual disabilities, and other disabilities. It is also an important term in the disability rights movement, referring to people with disabilities taking control of their own lives, including being in charge of their own care in the medical system. The self-advocacy movement is (in basic terms) about people with disabilities speaking up for themselves. It means that although a person with a disability may call upon the support of others, the individual is entitled to be in control of their own resources and how they are directed. It is about having the right to make life decisions without undue influence or control by others.\n\nPeople with intellectual disabilities are often some of the most powerless members of society. They may live in large institutions or in smaller residences known as group homes which are staff-directed environments where residents have little or no control over their living conditions or with whom they share their living space. People with intellectual disabilities are extremely vulnerable to abuse due to their social and physical isolation. They are eight to ten times more likely to suffer sexual abuse than the non-disabled population.\n\nThe self-advocacy movement seeks to reduce the isolation of people with disabilities and give them the tools and experience to take greater control over their own lives. The self-advocacy movement for people with intellectual disabilities lags far behind many other civil rights efforts, such as those related to race or physical disabilities. This is due to many factors including low literacy and other communication challenges that are a barrier for people with intellectual disabilities.\n\nThe self-advocacy movement for people with disabilities has its roots in the broader civil rights movements of the 1960s and 1970s but is in many respects still in its infancy. In North America the self-advocacy movement is led by a national organization called Self Advocates Becoming Empowered (SABE) and supported by a relatively small number of organizations, such as ACT in the United States and LiveWorkPlay in Canada and internationally through the People First organization.\n\nIn the medical and psychiatric areas, emphasis is placed on self-advocacy or self-empowerment (patient empowerment). This emphasis started in the psychiatric field during the 1970s, not only to advocate for needed changes in the delivery of services but to encourage patients to take a more active role in their own care.\n\nSimilar changes occurred in the medical area, especially in the 1980s with the beginnings of hospice and home care/home health care industries. Patients since the 1980s have been encouraged to become participants in their own care and to become knowledgeable consumers of the services of medical care. In the UK for example, the government has largely contributed to encouraging patients to become more active. The government has focused on developing information services such as the National Health Service's \"NHS Direct\" and \"NHS Direct Online\".\n\nAs the medical field has become more complex, along with the myriad of problems with insurance coverage, patients have had to become stronger self-advocates for their own care and for the insurance coverage due in their case. Every time people speak up for themselves to resolve a problem, they are practicing self-advocacy. Patients should know their rights, and be willing to honor themselves by being proactive in their care. In all medical situations, patients must be given, must read, and must sign medical consent before procedures, tests or surgery. If patients do not understand anything about their care, they should ask questions. The simple act of asking questions and fully understanding what will be done in your care is an act of self-advocacy. Through being one's own advocate there is patient empowerment.\n\nSelf-advocacy can include any action, verbal or written, which is intended to outline and describe a particular problem an individual is encountering. Self-advocacy is intended to create the interest and action by another person to assist the person in resolving the specific problem. Thus, a person might be self-advocating to an individual (such as directly to a nurse or doctor), to an institution (such as a hospital, clinic, or agency), or to a company or organized body (such as an insurance company or a government agency.)\n\nSince individuals know their own situations the best, they can often be the best advocates for themselves. It helps if they can communicate a description of the problem in clear and concise fashion, and are able to listen to the responses from the person/agency to whom they bring the problem.\n\nPatients are often more successful at self-advocacy if the particular problem they are describing also connects to some aspect protected under the Patient Bill of Rights. However, self-advocacy can also resolve other situations, such as differences of opinion between the patient and doctor, or personality conflicts, or even minor problems in delivery of health care.\n\n\nMany claim the Internet is a powerful tool for self-advocacy. This is because one may be able to research the risks and benefits of a number of different treatments. One can also use it to become better informed of a variety of explanations of one's illness. Patients are able to create their own web pages to provide knowledge about illnesses and build support communities.\n\nNevertheless, Henwood, Wyatt, Hart and Smith challenge the extent to which others claim the internet is able to promote self-advocacy. They did research on thirty-two women wanting to know about how hormone replacement therapy (HRT) could relieve menopausal symptoms. They point out that to become informed of one's illness and treatments in this way, requires having skills to be able to access this information using the internet in the first place. Also, one has to start out with some knowledge to distinguish the usefulness of different types of information and decipher what information is valid. As one of their research participants claimed, much information can be gotten from the internet but unlike a doctor, the internet is unable to answer questions about specific information found. Henwood \"et al.\" felt that strategies that the patients used for searching for information on the internet were unsystematic. Therefore, research participants were unaware of the commercial interests many sites had. For example, many sites created by lay people are sponsored by large pharmaceutical companies in return for the site's promotion of their drug.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "984182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984182", "title": "Slain in the Spirit", "text": "Slain in the Spirit\n\nSlain in the Spirit or slaying in the Spirit are terms used by Pentecostal and charismatic Christians to describe a form of prostration in which an individual falls to the floor while experiencing religious ecstasy. Believers attribute this behavior to the power of the Holy Spirit. Other terms used to describe the experience include falling under the power, overcome by the Spirit, and resting in the Spirit. The practice is associated with faith healing because individuals are often slain while seeking prayer for illness.\n\nChristians who support the practice cite biblical evidence for its authenticity and use. Christians who oppose the practice dispute the interpretation of those Bible passages, arguing that there is no biblical precedent and that the practice may be satanic in origin. Those skeptical of the practice have explained it as being caused by hypnosis, autosuggestion, or peer pressure.\n\nSociologist Margaret Poloma has defined slaying in the Spirit as \"the power of the Holy Spirit so filling a person with a heightened inner awareness that the body's energy fades away and the person collapses to the floor\". Slaying in the Spirit may occur in a variety of settings, including while a person prays in solitude. However, it usually occurs in group settings, including small prayer groups, religious conferences or retreats, regular church services and large healing crusades.\n\nIn church services or healing crusades, attendees may be invited to the front of the church or other venue to receive prayer from a minister or a team of ministers. Often, the prayer is accompanied with the laying on of hands and anointing with oil. Those being prayed for perceive the Spirit of God upon them and they fall, usually onto their backs. In most cases, their fall is broken by ushers or \"catchers\". Once fallen, a person may lay on the floor face up and eyes closed for several seconds to several hours in some cases.\n\nPeople who have experienced the phenomenon report different degrees of awareness ranging from total consciousness to complete unconsciousness. They also report feelings of peace and relaxation. While lying down, they may speak in tongues, laugh, weep or speak praises to God. According to anthropologist Thomas Csordas:\n\nNot all incidents of falling or swooning in Pentecostal and charismatic churches are attributed to the Holy Spirit. Besides the possibility of fraud, charismatics may also attribute the behavior to demonic activity. Analyzing accounts of early Pentecostal religious ecstasy, historian Grant Wacker concluded that communal cues helped religious communities determine whether specific incidents were instigated by the Holy Spirit or not. Other explanations of the phenomenon have also been proposed, such as autosuggestion, peer pressure, or a desire to experience what others have experienced. In addition, sociologists note that similar phenomena, such as spirit possession and trance, can be found in other religions.\n\nJoe Nickell, writing in the Skeptical Inquirer, observed the use of slaying in the Spirit during a Benny Hinn healing crusade in 2001. He compared the practice to hypnosis, writing that participants \"merely engage in a form of role-playing that is prompted by their strong desire to receive divine power as well as by the influence of suggestion that they do so ... In short, they behave just as if 'hypnotized. According to Nickell, a professional hypnotist stated that \"This is something we do every day\".\n\nBeginning with the First Great Awakening that impacted Protestant Europe as well as Britain's American colonies in the eighteenth century, bodily movements became a prominent and controversial part of Protestant revivalism. Supporters of the revivals within various denominations including Presbyterians, Congregationalists, Baptists and Methodists argued that trembling, groaning, screaming and falling to the ground \"as dead\" were signs of divine power in those who were becoming aware of their own sinfulness. This bodily agitation, as well as the problem of sin and guilt, was resolved through a conscious conversion experience, which was marked by peace and joy.\n\nJohn Wesley, the founder of Methodism, considered falling down and other bodily movements to be natural (not supernatural) human responses to the supernatural \"testimony\" or \"witness\" of the Holy Spirit in conversion. Occasionally, Wesley attributed bodily movements to Satan's attempt at disrupting the conversion process, but at other times, he described bodily movements as natural human responses to God's love. Wesley, George Whitefield and Jonathan Edwards all record instances of people falling during their ministries. During the Second Great Awakening of the early nineteenth century, Peter Cartwright and Charles G. Finney also recorded similar behavior.\n\nIn the twentieth century, \"prostrate trance\" became chiefly associated with Pentecostalism and its offshoots. Historian Grant Wacker argues that early Pentecostals replaced the liturgies and sacraments of traditional churches with the \"disciplined use of ecstasy\", including the regular occurrence of slaying in the Spirit. Regarding the sacramental undertones of slaying in the Spirit, Wacker writes:\n\nThe frequency of slaying in the Spirit and the importance that Pentecostals placed on it decreased over time as Pentecostals rose to the ranks of the middle class and attempted to shed the stereotype of being \"Holy Rollers\" (a derogatory term derived from instances of people literally rolling in the aisles when baptized in the Holy Spirit). In 1989, Margaret Poloma noted that some pastors and even high ranking leaders within the Assemblies of God USA, a Pentecostal denomination, were critical of the practice.\n\nSlaying in the Spirit saw a resurgence during the 1960s and 1970s due to the influence of the charismatic movement, which disseminated Pentecostal beliefs and practices among mainline Protestants and Roman Catholics. During the 1980s, it experienced another surge in visibility due to the influence of John Wimber, an evangelical pastor and founder of the Vineyard Movement.\n\nMichael Brown quotes a number of scriptures which he claims support the practice of being slain in the Spirit. Wayne Grudem states that while the phrase \"slaying in the Spirit\" is not found in Scripture, there are a number of instances where people are described as falling to the ground or falling into a trance in the presence of God.\n\nOthers refute these claims. Calvinist pastor and author John MacArthur argues the practice is neither described nor prescribed specifically in the Bible and that it is, at best, of satanic origin. David Pawson, a Bible teacher and charismatic Christian, states the closest Biblical reference is the story of Ananias and Sapphira, which has a quite different connotation. Matthew Slick of the Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry advises caution and discernment.\n\nThe 1967 film \"Holy Ghost People\" by Peter Adair documented an Appalachian Pentecostal church service in which several people were slain in the Spirit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "465576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465576", "title": "Stanine", "text": "Stanine\n\nStanine (STAndard NINE) is a method of scaling test scores on a nine-point standard scale with a mean of five and a standard deviation of two.\n\nSome web sources attribute stanines to the U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II. Psychometric legend has it that a 1-9 scale was used because of the compactness of recording the score as a single digit but Thorndike claims that by reducing scores to just nine values, stanines \"reduce the tendency to try to interpret small score differences (p. 131)\". The earliest known use of stanines was by the U.S. Army Air Forces in 1943.\n\nTest scores are scaled to stanine scores using the following algorithm:\n\nThe underlying basis for obtaining stanines is that a normal distribution is divided into nine intervals, each of which has a width of 0.5 standard deviations excluding the first and last, which are just the remainder (the tails of the distribution). The mean lies at the centre of the fifth interval.\n\nToday stanines are mostly used in educational assessment. \n\n\n\nVolume Six \nMEN AND PLANES \nTHE ARMY AIR FORCES \nIn World War II \nPREPARED UNDER THE EDITORSHIP OF \nWESLEY FRANK CRAVEN \nJAMES LEA GATE \nPrinceton University \nUniversity of Chicago\n\nHere is a link to the document:\nhttp://www.afhso.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101105-019.pdf\n"}
{"id": "460427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460427", "title": "Stephen Lewis", "text": "Stephen Lewis\n\nStephen Henry Lewis (born November 11, 1937) is a Canadian politician, public speaker, broadcaster and diplomat. He was the leader of the social democratic Ontario New Democratic Party for most of the 1970s.\n\nDuring many of those years as leader, his father David Lewis was simultaneously the leader of the federal New Democratic Party. After politics, he became a broadcaster on both CBC Radio and Toronto's Citytv. In the mid-1980s, he was appointed as Canada's United Nations ambassador, by Progressive Conservative Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. He quit in 1988 and worked at various United Nations agencies during the 1990s. In the 2000s, he served a term as the United Nations' special envoy for HIV/AIDS in Africa. In 2003, he gained investiture into the Order of Canada. As of 2014, he is a Distinguished Visiting Professor at Ryerson University in Toronto.\n\nStephen Lewis was born in Ottawa, Ontario, on November 11, 1937, to Sophie Lewis (née Carson) and David Lewis. His parents gave him the Hebrew name \"Sholem\", a Yiddish derivation of the Hebrew word \"shalom\", which means peace, because he was born on Armistice Day. From the time he was born, and through his early childhood, his father was the National Secretary of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF), the predecessor party to the NDP. When his family moved to Toronto in 1950, he attended secondary school first at Toronto's Oakwood Collegiate, and then his final three years of high school at Harbord Collegiate Institute. In 1956, he entered the University of Toronto (UofT) where he became a member of the Hart House debating committee, and on 14 November 1957, debated the senator and future American president, John F. Kennedy, on the question, \"Has the United States failed in its responsibilities as a world leader?\" The Senator narrowly beat the Hart House team 204-194. Lewis's performance was considered the highlight of the event, while Kennedy's was flat according to many members in the audience like John Brewin. He spent his third year of university at the University of British Columbia (UBC) before spending his final undergraduate year back at UofT where he failed to write his final examinations. He went to law school twice in the early 1960s, dropping out of both UofT and UBC's programs.\n\nHe left his studies in the 1960s and took up a clerical position with the Socialist International, where he received an invitation to a conference in Ghana. He attended, and instead of returning to Canada, spent more than a year working, traveling, and teaching in various places in Africa. He recalled in his 2005 Massey Lectures that the relatively brief sojourn would be a key influence on his life, especially after the turn of the new millennium.\n\nHe came back to Canada at the instigation of Tommy Douglas, and in 1963, at the age of 26, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Ontario. Following the engineered 1970 resignation of Donald C. MacDonald, Lewis was elected leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party. His initial experience at the helm in the 1971 provincial election was a disappointment, with the party slipping from 20 seats to 19.\n\nA radical left wing group nicknamed The Waffle had gained prominence, with one of its leaders, James Laxer, winning one-third of the vote when he ran to be leader of the federal NDP in 1971. Lewis felt that The Waffle was threatening the credibility and stability of the party and supported a movement against the group in June 1972 on the basis that it was a \"party within a party\".\n\nLewis led a strong campaign during the 1975 election with his oratory and passion bringing new supporters to the party. The NDP highlighted issues such as rent control and workplace safety. Each day, Lewis told the story of a different Ontarian in trouble, making a case that this was because of the lack of adequate legislation. Polls showed the NDP surging and the incumbent Ontario Progressive Conservative Party in freefall and in the course of the campaign Premier William Davis was forced to commit his party to bringing in rent control and other progressive reforms in order to retain power. When the ballots were counted the Tories were reduced to a minority government. Lewis' NDP had doubled its seats from 19 to 38, surpassing the Ontario Liberal Party to become the Official Opposition. To some it appeared that it was only a matter of time before the NDP would form the government.\n\nThe next election, in 1977, proved to be a disappointment. The growth of support for the NDP stalled, and while the Tories were kept to a minority, the NDP failed to make any gains. The party was reduced to 33 seats and lost its status as Official Opposition to the Liberals. In 1978, a frustrated Lewis stepped down as party leader and as a Member of Provincial Parliament.\n\nAfter working for several years as a labour mediator, columnist and broadcaster, in 1984 Lewis was appointed Permanent Representative of Canada to the United Nations by Governor General Jeanne Sauvé, on the advice of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Lewis served at the post until 1988. In the 1980s, he became a familiar voice appearing with Dalton Camp and Eric Kierans as part of a weekly political panel on Peter Gzowski's CBC Radio show, \"Morningside\".\n\nFrom 1995 to 1999, Lewis was Deputy Director of UNICEF. From 2001 until 2006, he worked as United Nations UN Special Envoy for HIV/AIDS in Africa. In this role, he drew attention to the HIV/AIDS crisis and convinced leaders and the public that they have a responsibility to respond. He has been widely praised for his effectiveness in this role. In 2005 he adapted his Massey Lectures in a book titled \"Race Against Time\", where he describes the disjuncture between what the international community promises and their actions in responding to the pandemic in Africa.\n\nIn May 2006, Lewis joined the Faculty of Social Sciences at McMaster University as a Scholar-in-Residence. Also in 2006, he was elected a Senior Fellow of Massey College in the University of Toronto. In 2009, Lewis strongly criticized Pope Benedict XVI's assertion that condom use only makes the AIDS crisis worse.\n\nLewis is chair of the board of the Stephen Lewis Foundation, a non-profit organization that helps people affected and infected by HIV/AIDS in Africa.\n\nIn October 2009, to raise money for the foundation, Lewis helped with a campaign to dare Canadians to do something for Africa called A Dare to Remember. The campaign saw Lewis, along with musician k-os, Federal NDP leader Jack Layton, Olympic gold medalist Duff Gibson and many other Canadians, performing various dares for the event. He faced his own personal fears as part of the campaign, and sang live on CBC's The Hour with the band the Arkells.\n\nIn 2007, Stephen Lewis and long-time colleague Paula Donovan co-founded \"AIDS-Free World\", a non-profit organization that advocates for more effective global responses to HIV and AIDS.\n\nAs a preventative HIV/AIDS strategy, Lewis has made a somewhat controversial call for male circumcision when African boys receive the first of two UN-administered measles vaccination shots, so that their recovery progress can be monitored at the time of the second vaccination. Many studies have been conducted into the role circumcision can play in reducing the spread of HIV.\n\nStephen Lewis is the son of former federal NDP leader David Lewis and the grandson of Moishe Lewis (1888-1950), an activist in the Jewish Bund in Russia and the Jewish Labour Committee in Montreal.\n\nLewis has three siblings. Two of them were active and high-ranking officials within the Ontario NDP during the 1980s and 1990s: Michael Lewis was the secretary, and Janet Solberg was the president. His second sister is Nina Lewis-Libeskind, the wife and partner of world-renowned architect Daniel Libeskind.\n\nLewis is married to journalist Michele Landsberg. Their son is broadcaster Avi Lewis, who married journalist and author Naomi Klein. Their daughters are Ilana Naomi Landsberg-Lewis and Jenny Leah Lewis; Ilana serves as executive director of the Stephen Lewis Foundation.\n\nFor his humanitarian work in Africa and the United Nations, the Governor General of Canada appointed Lewis a Companion of the Order of Canada on October 10, 2002. His investiture into the order was held on October 23, 2003. He delivered the annual Massey Lecture in 2005, and it was published in book form under the title \"\". The book consists of five lectures that depict the HIV/AIDS pandemic in Africa, critically examining the international community's passivity as a contributing factor.\n\nIn 2006, two new secondary schools in the Toronto area were named after Lewis: one in Mississauga, Ontario, Stephen Lewis Secondary School and one in York Region. The Mississauga school has a special focus on educating students on issues relating to social justice and global citizenship to enhance the Ontario Curriculum.\n\nIn 2007, Lewis received the World Citizenship Award, from the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, as well as the Health and Human Rights Leadership Award from Doctors of the World-USA. Lewis was also invested as a Knight Commander of the Most Dignified Order of Moshoeshoe by King Letsie III of Lesotho.\n\nIn 2010, Forbes magazine, in conjunction with their 2010 list of \"World's Most Powerful People\", asked the feminist playwright Eve Ensler to identify Worlds' Most Powerful Feminists. She named Stephen Lewis as one of her top seven.\n\nIn 2013, The Mark S. Bonham Centre for Sexual Diversity Studies at the University of Toronto presented Stephen Lewis with the Bonham Centre Award, recognizing his contribution to the advancement and education of human rights issues surrounding sexual education.\n\nLewis has 33 honorary degrees, 32 from Canadian institutions. This is one of the largest held by any Canadian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4666001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4666001", "title": "Storakersvatnet", "text": "Storakersvatnet\n\nStorakersvatnet is a lake in the municipality of Rana in Nordland county, Norway. The lake lies about south of the town of Mo i Rana and less than from the border with Sweden. The original lake was only , but a dam was built at the northern end so that it can serve as a reservoir for the Rana power station. This dam has caused the lake to enlarge to an area of .\n\n"}
{"id": "24132364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24132364", "title": "The Biggest Loser (UK TV series)", "text": "The Biggest Loser (UK TV series)\n\nThe Biggest Loser was a British reality television show that began airing on Sky Living from 2005 to 2006, before moving to ITV in 2009 and finished in 2012. Most recently hosted by Davina McCall, the show is a spin-off of the American reality television show of the same name.\n\nThe show originally featured Angie Dowds and Mark Bailey as the personal trainers, with Richard Callender replacing Bailey from series 3. After Dowds died in 2011, she was replaced by Charlotte Ord and Rob \"The Killer\" Edmond for the fifth series.\n\nThe first two series of the show were hosted by Vicki Butler-Henderson on Living TV, the third series was hosted by Kate Garraway and Davina McCall began presenting the show in its fourth series on ITV.\n\nIn September 2012, it was announced that the show would be cancelled, with no further series planned.\n\nThe basic format of the show is that overweight contestants compete to win a cash prize by losing the highest percentage of their starting body weight.\n\nIn its first two series, it was an individual competition, even though the contestants train together in teams, and immunity from elimination is initially based on team competitions. The red team was trained by Angie Dowds, who used a hard no-nonsense approach. The blue team was trained by Mark Bailey, who trained with a more nurturing approach.\n\nIn the first two series, the winner received £25,000 in cash, the third series winnings was reduced to £10,000 but was reverted to the £25,000 cash prize as of the fourth series.\n\nThe third series changed to the new 'couples' format, where 8 pairs of friends, relatives or colleagues started together for the first 5 weeks, before they got split up into a 'black team', trained by Angie Dowds, and a 'blue team', trained by Richard Callender, and started competing against each other, similar to the first two series.\n\nThe first few weeks of the competition are recorded at Stanford Hall (aka The Biggest Loser House). For one week, all of the contestants travel to the USA. The final was pre-recorded at The London Studios in 2011 and The Maidstone Studios in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "41831350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41831350", "title": "The Marfan Foundation", "text": "The Marfan Foundation\n\nThe Marfan Foundation (formerly National Marfan Foundation, NMF) is a non-profit organization in the United States established to raise awareness and promote research on treatment of Marfan syndrome and related disorders. The Foundation provides information about Marfan syndrome and funds research for the purposes of saving lives and improving the quality of life for people affected by the condition which is a genetic connective tissue disorder. The Foundation also lobbies Congress to fund Marfan syndrome research and engages in its own fundraising activities.\n\nThe Foundation was established in 1981 by Priscilla Ciccariello, who lost a husband and son to the disorder, and Reed E. Pyeritz, MD, a geneticist at Johns Hopkins Hospital. In addition to providing grants for research on Marfan syndrome, the foundation raises awareness of the condition, which often goes undiagnosed, among health care providers and the public. The Foundation hosts an annual conference, has dozens of chapters and support groups across the U.S., and sponsors fundraising events. Carolyn Levering became the Marfan Foundation's first President & CEO in 1994. She announced her retirement in early 2014. Before it began using the current name, the organization was known as the \"National Marfan Foundation.\"\n\nThe Marfan Foundation operates under the guidance of its Board of Directors, which consists of \"a diverse group of business leaders and long-time Foundation members.\" The Foundation also has a Professional Advisory Board consisting of physicians and other health care professionals, and is currently chaired by Alan C. Braverman, MD, of Washington University School of Medicine. The Marfan Foundation has a separate Scientific Advisory Board, currently chaired by Craig T. Basson, MD, PhD of Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research. The late geneticist Victor A. McKusick was also a member of the Foundation's Scientific Advisory Board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932815", "title": "Walker Law", "text": "Walker Law\n\nThe Walker Law passed in 1920 was an early New York state law regulating boxing. The law reestablished legal boxing in the state following the three-year ban created by the repeal of the Frawley Law. The law instituted rules that better ensured the safety of combatants and reduced the roughness of the sport. The law limited matches to fifteen rounds, required a physician in attendance, restricted certain aggressive acts such as head-butting, and created a regulatory commission, the New York State Athletic Commission.\n\nThe first main event conducted under this new law was the Joe Welling vs. Johnny Dundee bout. Sammy Nable vs. Bobby Hanson possibly was the very first bout ever conducted under the law.\n\n"}
