{"id": "302109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302109", "title": "Accessibility", "text": "Accessibility\n\nAccessibility is the design of products, devices, services, or environments for people with disabilities. The concept of accessible design and practice of accessible development ensures both \"direct access\" (i.e. unassisted) and \"indirect access\" meaning compatibility with a person's assistive technology (for example, computer screen readers).\n\nAccessibility can be viewed as the \"ability to access\" and benefit from some system or entity. The concept focuses on enabling access for people with disabilities, or special needs, or enabling access through the use of assistive technology; however, research and development in accessibility brings benefits to everyone.\n\nAccessibility is not to be confused with usability, which is the extent to which a product (such as a device, service, or environment) can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified context of use.\n\nAccessibility is strongly related to universal design which is the process of creating products that are usable by people with the widest possible range of abilities, operating within the widest possible range of situations. This is about making things accessible to all people (whether they have a disability or not).\n\nThe disability rights movement advocates equal access to social, political, and economic life which includes not only physical access but access to the same tools, services, organizations and facilities for which everyone pays (e.g., museums). Article 9 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities commits signatories to provide for full accessibility in their countries.\nWhile it is often used to describe facilities or amenities to assist people with handicap impaired mobility, through the provision of facilities like wheelchair ramps, the term can extend include other types of disability. Accessible facilities therefore extend to areas such as Braille signage, elevators, audio signals at pedestrian crossings, walkway contours, website design and reading accessibility.\n\nGovernment mandates including Section 508, WCAG, DDA are all enforcing practices to standardize accessibility testing engineering in product development.\n\nAccessibility modifications may be required to enable persons with disabilities to gain access to education, employment, transportation, housing, recreation, or even simply to exercise their right to vote.\n\nVarious countries have legislation requiring physical accessibility which are (in order of enactment):\n\nLegislation may also be enacted on a state, provincial or local level. In Ontario, Canada, the Ontarians with Disabilities Act of 2001 is meant to \"improve the identification, removal and prevention of barriers faced by persons with disabilities...\"\n\nThe European Union (EU), which has signed the United Nations' Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, also has adopted a European Disability Strategy for 2010-20. The Strategy includes the following goals, among others:\n\nA \"European Accessibility Act\" was proposed in late 2012. This Act would establish standards within member countries for accessible products, services, and public buildings. The harmonization of accessibility standards within the EU \"would facilitate the social integration of persons with disabilities and the elderly and their mobility across member states, thereby also fostering the free movement principle\".\n\nAssistive technology is the creation of a new device that assists a person in completing a task that would otherwise be impossible. Some examples include new computer software programs like screen readers, and inventions such as assistive listening devices, including hearing aids, and traffic lights with a standard color code that enables colorblind individuals to understand the correct signal.\n\nAdaptive technology is the modification, or adaptation, of existing devices, methods, or the creation of new uses for existing devices, to enable a person to complete a task. Examples include the use of remote controls, and the autocomplete (word completion) feature in computer word processing programs, which both help individuals with mobility impairments to complete tasks. Adaptations to wheelchair tires are another example; widening the tires enables wheelchair users to move over soft surfaces, such as deep snow on ski hills, and sandy beaches.\n\nAssistive technology and adaptive technology have a key role in developing the means for people with disabilities to live more independently, and to more fully participate in mainstream society. In order to have access to assistive or adaptive technology, however, educating the public and even legislating requirements to incorporate this technology have been necessary.\n\nAccessibility of employment covers a wide range of issues, from skills training, to occupational therapy, finding employment, and retaining employment.\n\nEmployment rates for workers with disabilities are lower than for the general workforce. Workers in Western countries fare relatively well, having access to more services and training as well as legal protections against employment discrimination. Despite this, in the United States the 2012 unemployment rate for workers with disabilities was 12.9%, while it was 7.3% for workers without disabilities. More than half of workers with disabilities (52%) earned less than $25,000 in the previous year, compared with just 38% of workers with no disabilities. This translates into an earnings gap where individuals with disabilities earn about 25 percent less of what workers without disabilities earn.Among occupations with 100,000 or more people, dishwashers had the highest disability rate (14.3%), followed by refuse and recyclable material collectors (12.7%), personal care aides (11.9%), and janitors and building cleaners (11.8%). The rates for refuse and recyclable material collectors, personal care aides, and janitors and building cleaners were not statistically different from one another.\n\nSurveys of non-Western countries are limited, but the available statistics also indicate fewer jobs being filled by workers with disabilities. In India, a large 1999 survey found that \"of the 'top 100 multinational companies' in the country [...] the employment rate of persons with disabilities in the private sector was a mere 0.28%, 0.05% in multinational companies and only 0.58% in the top 100 IT companies in the country\". India, like much of the world, has large sections of the economy that are without strong regulation or social protections, such as the informal economy. Other factors have been cited as contributing to the high unemployment rate, such as public service regulations. Although employment for workers with disabilities is higher in the public sector due to hiring programs targeting persons with disabilities, regulations currently restrict types of work available to persons with disabilities:\n\"Disability-specific employment reservations are limited to the public sector and a large number of the reserved positions continue to be vacant despite nearly two decades of enactment of the PWD Act\".\n\nExpenses related to adaptive or assistive technology required to participate in the workforce may be tax deductible expenses for individuals with a medical practitioner's prescription in some jurisdictions.\n\nDisability Management (DM) is a specialized area of human resources, to support efforts by employers to better integrate and retain workers with disabilities. Some workplaces have policies in place to provide \"reasonable accommodation\" for employees with disabilities, however, many do not. In some jurisdictions, employers may have legal requirements to end discrimination against persons with disabilities.\n\nIt has been noted by researchers that where accommodations are in place for employees with disabilities, these frequently apply to individuals with \"pre-determined or apparent disabilities as determined by national social protection or Equality Authorities\", which include persons with pre-existing conditions who receive an official disability designation. One of the biggest challenges for employers is in developing policies and practises to manage employees who develop disabilities during the course of employment. Even where these exist, they tend to focus on workplace injuries, overlooking job retention challenges faced by employees who acquire a non-occupation injury or illness. Protecting employability is a factor that can help close the unemployment gap for persons with disabilities.\n\nMeetings and conferences should consider the needs of all of their participants. Checklists such as this may make it easier to identify specific needs:\n\n\nAccessibility based planning is a spatial planning methodology that centralises goals of people and businesses and defines accessibility policy as enhancing people and business opportunities.\n\nTraditionally, urban transportation planning has mainly focused on the efficiency of the transport system itself and is often responding to plans made by spatial planners. Such an approach neglects the influence of interventions in the transport system on broader and often conflicting economic, social and environmental goals. Accessibility based planning defines accessibility as the amount of services and jobs people can access within a certain travel time, considering one or more modes of transport such as walking, cycling, driving or public transport.\nUsing this definition accessibility does not only relate to the qualities of the transport system (e.g. travel speed, time or costs), but also to the qualities of the land use system (e.g. densities and mixes of opportunities). It thus provides planners with the possibility to understand interdependencies between transport and land use development. Accessibility planning opens the floor to a more normative approach to transportation planning involving different actors. For politicians, citizens and firms it might be easier to discuss the quality of access to education, services and markets than it is to discuss the inefficiencies of the transport system itself. Accessibility is also defined as \"the potential for interaction\".\n\nGenerally since the 1960s, accessibility instruments have been developed for a multitude of contexts and scopes. These instruments have their focus on origins and on destinations, they measure access through time, distance or cost and focus on different modes of transportation and geographical scales. Accessibility instruments are thus able to show what are the best accessible places or opportunities within a city or region, considering one or more specific modes of transportation, timeslots and target groups. In addition to this, the maps, which are produced as the instrument output, are considered as considerably useful when assessing the effects of new developments in a city. The first ever first large scale compendium of accessibility instruments was developed in 2012, under the framework of Cost Action TU1002, and is available.\n\nDespite the high potential of accessibility in integrating the different components of urban planning, such as land use and transportation and the large number of accessibility instruments available in the research literature, the latter are not widely used to support urban planning practices. By keeping the accessibility language out of the practice level, older paradigms resist the more informed and people-centred approaches.\nFocusing on the link between research and practice, the Cost Action TU1002 seeks to find out why accessibility instruments are not more often used in urban planning practice and reflects on how to reduce such implementation gap in planning practice. The existence of accessibility instruments is fairly acknowledged, but practitioners do not appear to have found them useful or usable enough for addressing the tasks of sustainable urban management.\nThis Cost Action TU1002 is bringing together developers of accessibility instruments all over Europe and Australia to work with land use and transportation planning practitioners to explore how these instruments can play a more supportive role in enhancing accessibility in European cities and beyond. So far, 24 Accessibility Instruments have been gathered, analysed and described so as to understand in detail their characteristics, planning issues addressed and specific purposes, according to the developers’ view. In turn, these instruments are being tested in a series of workshops with multidisciplinary teams of practitioners around Europe addressing the issue of usability from the practitioners’ viewpoint. In doing so, it is expected that the additional knowledge on the potential of accessibility instruments for urban planning practice will have beneficial impacts on urban quality and decision making on urban land use patterns.\n\nProviding mobility to people with disabilities includes changes for public facilities like gently sloping paths of travel for people with wheelchairs and difficulty walking up stairs, or audio announcements for the blind; dedicated services like paratransit; and adaptations to personal vehicles.\n\nAutomobile accessibility also refers to ease of use by disabled people. Automobiles, whether a car or a van, can be adapted for a range of physical disabilities. Foot pedals can be raised, or replaced with hand-controlled devices. Wheelchair hoists, lifts or ramps may be customized according to the needs of the driver. Ergonomic adaptations, such as a lumbar support cushion, may also be needed.\n\nGenerally, the more limiting the disability, the more expensive the adaptation needed for the vehicle. Financial assistance is available through some organizations, such as Motability in the United Kingdom, which requires a contribution by the prospective vehicle owner. Motability makes vehicles available for purchase or lease.\n\nWhen an employee with a disability requires an adapted car for work use, the employee does not have to pay for a \"reasonable adjustment\" in the United Kingdom; if the employer is unable to pay the cost, assistance is offered by government programs.\n\nA significant development in transportation, and public transport in particular, to achieve accessibility, is the move to \"low-floor\" vehicles. In a low-floor vehicle, access to part or all of the passenger cabin is unobstructed from one or more entrances by the presence of steps, enabling easier access for the infirm or people with push chairs. A further aspect may be that the entrance and corridors are wide enough to accommodate a wheelchair. Low-floor vehicles have been developed for buses, trolleybuses and trams.\n\nA low floor in the vehicular sense is normally combined in a conceptual meaning with normal pedestrian access from a standard kerb (curb) height. However, the accessibility of a low-floor vehicle can also be utilised from slightly raising portions of kerb at bus stops, or through use of level boarding bus rapid transit stations or tram stops. The combination of access from a kerb was the technological development of the 1990s, as step-free interior layouts for buses had existed in some cases for decades, with entrance steps being introduced as chassis designs and overall height regulations changed.\n\nLow-floor buses may also be designed with special height adjustment controls that permit a stationary bus to temporarily lower itself to ground level, permitting wheelchair access. This is referred to as a kneeling bus.\n\nAt rapid transit systems, vehicles generally have floors in the same height as the platforms but the stations are often underground or elevated, so accessibility there isn't a question of providing low-floor vehicles, but providing a step-free access from street level to the platforms (generally by elevators, which are somewhat restricted to disabled passengers only, so that the step-free access isn't obstructed by healthy people taking advantage).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, local transport authorities are responsible for checking that all people who live within their area can access essential opportunities and services, and where gaps in provision are identified the local authorities are responsible for organizing changes to make new connections. These requirements are defined in the UK Community Planning Acts legislation and more detailed guidance has been issued by the Department for Transport for each local authority. This includes the requirement to produce an Accessibility Plan under Community Planning legislation and to incorporate this within their Local Transport Plan. An Accessibility Plan sets out how each local authority plans to improve access to employment, learning, health care, food shops and other services of local importance, particularly for disadvantaged groups and areas. Accessibility targets are defined in the accessibility plans, these are often the distance or time to access services by different modes of transport including walking, cycling and public transport.\n\nAccessibility Planning was introduced as a result of the report \"Making the Connections: Final Report on Transport and Social Exclusion\". This report was the result of research carried out by the Social Exclusion Unit. The United Kingdom also has a \"code of practice\" for making train and stations accessible: \"Accessible Train and Station Design for Disabled People: A Code of Practice\". This code of practice was first published in 2002 with the objective of compliance to Section 71B of the Railways Act 1993, and revised after a public consultation period in 2008.\n\nMaking public services fully accessible to the public has led to some technological innovations. Public announcement systems using audio induction loop technology can broadcast announcements directly into the hearing aid of anyone with a hearing impairment, making them useful in such public places as auditoriums and train stations. Australia's government has supported the creation of the National Public Toilet Map, to enable users to locate public toilet facilities throughout the country. GPS is also included as a feature. The service assists people with continence issues, which is estimated to be up to 18% of the population, including the elderly and families with young children.\n\nAccessibility modifications to conventional urban environments has become common in recent decades. The use of a curb cut, or kassel kerb, to enable wheelchair or walker movement between sidewalk and street level is found in most major cities of wealthy countries. The creation of priority parking spaces and of disabled parking permits has made them a standard feature of urban environments. Features that assist people with visual impairments include braille signs and tactile paving to allow a user with a cane to easily identify stairways, train platforms, and similar areas that could pose a physical danger to anyone who has a visual impairment.\n\nUrban design features that may appear to be simple conveniences for persons without disabilities are often essential to anyone who has a disability. The loss of these features presents a significant barrier. For example, sometimes a lack of prompt snow-clearing on sidewalks of major Canadian city streets means that wheelchair and walker users cannot reach pedestrian crossing buttons on crosswalk posts, due to snow bank accumulation around the posts, making the crossing buttons inaccessible. Public services must take into account the need to maintain accessibility features in the urban environment.\n\nMost existing and new housing, even in the wealthiest nations, lack basic accessibility features unless the designated, immediate occupant of a home currently has a disability. However, there are some initiatives to change typical residential practices so that new homes incorporate basic access features such as zero-step entries and door widths adequate for wheelchairs to pass through. Occupational Therapists are a professional group skilled in the assessment and making of recommendations to improve access to homes. They are involved in both the adaptation of existing housing to improve accessibility, and in the design of future housing.\n\nThe broad concept of Universal design is relevant to housing, as it is to all aspects of the built environment. Furthermore, a Visitability movement begun by grass roots disability advocates in the 1980s focuses specifically on changing construction practices in new housing. This movement, a network of interested people working in their locales, works on educating, passing laws, and spurring voluntary home access initiatives with the intention that basic access become a routine part of new home construction.\n\nAccessibility in the design of housing and household devices has become more prominent in recent decades due to a rapidly ageing population in developed countries. Ageing seniors may wish to continue living independently, but the ageing process naturally increases the disabilities that a senior citizen will experience. A growing trend is the desire for many senior citizens to 'age in place', living as independently as possible for as long as possible. Accessibility modifications that allow ageing in place are becoming more common. Housing may even be designed to incorporate accessibility modifications that can be made throughout the life cycle of the residents.\n\nAdvances in information technology and telecommunications have represented a leap forward for accessibility. Access to the technology is restricted to those who can afford it, but it has become more widespread in Western countries in recent years. For those who use it, it provides the ability to access information and services by minimizing the barriers of distance and cost as well as the accessibility and usability of the interface. In many countries this has led to initiatives, laws and/or regulations that aim toward providing universal access to the internet and to phone systems at reasonable cost to citizens.\n\nA major advantage of advanced technology is its flexibility. Some technologies can be used at home, in the workplace, and in school, expanding the ability of the user to participate in various spheres of daily life. Augmentative and alternative communication technology is one such area of IT progress. It includes inventions such as speech-generating devices, Teletypewriter devices, adaptive pointing devices to replace computer mouse devices, and many others. They can be adapted to create accessibility to a range of tasks, and may be suitable for different kinds of disability.\n\nThe following impairments are some of the disabilities that affect communications and technology access, as well as many other life activities:\n\nEach kind of disability requires a different kind of accommodation, and this may require analysis by a medical specialist, an educational specialist or a job analysis when the impairment requires accommodation.\n\nOne of the first areas where information technology improved the quality of life for disabled individuals is the voice operated wheelchair. Quadriplegics have the most profound disability, and the voice operated wheel chair technology was first developed in 1977 to provide increased mobility. The original version replaced the joystick system with a module that recognized 8 commands. Many other technology accommodation improvements have evolved from this initial development.\n\nMissing arms and fingers interferes with the use of a keyboard and pointing device (mouse). This can be one of the most devastating types of handicap, and technology has made great improvements in this area during the last 20 years. Speech recognition devices and software can improve technology access.\n\nA communication disorder interferes with the ability to produce clearly understandable speech. There can be many different causes, such as nerve degeneration, muscle degeneration, stroke, and vocal cord injury. The modern method to deal with speaking disabilities has been to provide a text interface for a speech synthesizer for complete vocal disability. This can be a great improvement for people that have been limited to the use of a throat vibrator to produce speech since the 1960s.\n\nAn individual satisfies the definition of hearing disabled when hearing loss is about 30 dB for a single frequency, but this is not always perceptible as a handicap. For example, loss of sensitivity in one ear interferes with sound localization (directional hearing), which can interfere with communication in a crowd. This is often recognized when certain words are confused during normal conversation. This can interfere with voice-only interfaces, like automated customer service telephone systems, because it is sometimes difficult to increase the volume and repeat the message.\n\nMild to moderate hearing loss may be accommodated with a hearing aid that amplifies ambient sounds. Portable devices with speed recognition that can produce text can reduce problems associated with understanding conversation. This kind of hearing loss is relatively common, and this often grows worse with age.\n\nThe modern method to deal with profound hearing disability is the Internet using email or word processing applications. The telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) became available in the form of the teletype (TTY) during the 1960s. These devices consist of a keyboard, display and modem that connects two or more of these devices using a dedicated wire or plain old telephone service.\n\nA wide range of technology products are available to deal with visual impairment. This includes screen magnification for monitors, mouse-over speech synthesis browsing, braille displays, braille printers, braille cameras, voice operated phones and tablets.\n\nOne emerging product that will make ordinary computer displays available for the blind is the refreshable tactile display, which is very different from a conventional braille display. This provides a raised surface corresponding to the bright and dim spots on a conventional display. An example is the Touch Sight Camera for the Blind.\n\nSpeech Synthesis Markup Language \"(V1.0 Released 7 September 2004)\" and Speech Recognition Grammar Specification \"(V1.0 released 16 March 2004)\" are relatively recent technologies intended to standardize communication interfaces using Augmented BNF Form and XML Form. These technologies assist visual impairments and physical impairment by providing interactive access to web content without the need to visually observe the content. While these technologies provides access for visually impaired individuals, the primary benefactor has been automated systems that replace live human customer service representatives that handle telephone calls.\n\nThere have been a few major movements to coordinate a set of guidelines for accessibility for the web. The first and most well known is The Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), which is part of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). This organization developed the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 1.0 and 2.0 which explain how to make Web content accessible to everyone, including people with disabilities. Web \"content\" generally refers to the information in a Web page or Web application, including text, images, forms, and sounds. (More specific definitions are available in the WCAG documents.)\n\nThe WCAG is separated into 3 levels of compliance, A, AA and AAA. Each level requires a stricter set of conformance guidelines, such as different versions of HTML (Transitional vs Strict) and other techniques that need to be incorporated into your code before accomplishing validation. Online tools allow users to submit their website and automatically run it through the WCAG guidelines and produce a report, stating whether or not they conform to each level of compliance. Adobe Dreamweaver also offers plugins which allow web developers to test these guidelines on their work from within the program.\n\nThe ISO/IEC JTC1 SC36 WG7 24751 Individualized Adaptability and Accessibility in e-learning, education and training series is freely available and made of 3 parts: Individualized Adaptability and Accessibility in e-learning, education and training, Standards inventory and Guidance on user needs mapping.\n\nAnother source of web accessibility guidance comes from the US government. In response to Section 508 of the US Rehabilitation Act, the Access Board developed standards to which U.S. federal agencies must comply in order to make their sites accessible. The U.S. General Services Administration has developed a website where one can take online training courses for free to learn about these rules.\n\nExamples of accessibility features include:\n\n\nWhile WCAG provides much technical information for use by web designers, coders and editors, \"BS 8878:2010 Web accessibility – Code of Practice\" has been introduced, initially in the UK, to help site owners and product managers to understand the importance of accessibility. It includes advice on the business case behind accessibility, and how organisations might usefully update their policies and production processes to embed accessibility in their business-as-usual.\n\nAnother useful idea is for websites to include a web accessibility statement on the site. Initially introduced in PAS 78, the best practice for web accessibility statements has been updated in BS 8878 to emphasise the inclusion of: information on how disabled and elderly people could get a better experience of using the website by using assistive technologies or accessibility settings of browsers and operating systems (linking to \"BBC My Web My Way\" can be useful here); information on what accessibility features the site's creators have included, and if there are any user needs which the site doesn't currently support (for example, descriptive video to allow blind people to access the information in videos more easily); and contact details for disabled people to be able to use to let the site creators know if they have any problems in using the site. While validations against WCAG, and other accessibility badges can also be included, they should be put lower down the statement, as most disabled people still do not understand these technical terms.\n\nEqual access to education for students with disabilities is supported in some countries by legislation. It is still challenging for some students with disabilities to fully participate in mainstream education settings, but many adaptive technologies and assistive programs are making improvements. In India, the Medical Council of India has now passed the directives to all the medical institutions to make them accessible to persons with disabilities. This happened due to a petition by Dr Satendra Singh founder of Infinite Ability.\n\nStudents with a physical or mental impairment or learning disability may require note-taking assistance, which may be provided by a business offering such services, as with tutoring services. Talking books in the form of talking textbooks are available in Canadian secondary and post-secondary schools. Also, students may require adaptive technology to access computers and the Internet. These may be tax-exempt expenses in some jurisdictions with a medical prescription.\n\nTest accessibility is defined as the extent to which a test and its constituent item set eliminates barriers and permits the test-taker to demonstrate his or her knowledge of the tested content. Test accessibility involves an interaction between features of the test and individual test-taker characteristics.\n\nWith the passage of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 in the United States, student accountability in essential content areas such as reading, mathematics, and science has become a major area of focus in educational reform. As a result, test developers have needed to create tests to ensure all students, including those with special needs (e.g., students identified with disabilities), are given the opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which they have mastered the content measured on state assessments. Currently, states are permitted to develop two different types of tests in addition to the standard grade-level assessments to target students with special needs. First, the alternate assessment may be used to report proficiency for up to 1% of students in a state. Second, new regulations permit the use of alternate assessments based on modified academic achievement standards to report proficiency for up to 2% of students in a state.\n\nTo ensure these new tests generate results that permit valid inferences about student performance, they must be accessible to as many individuals as possible. The Test Accessibility and Modification Inventory (TAMI) and its companion evaluation tool, the Accessibility Rating Matrix (ARM), were designed to facilitate the evaluation of tests and test items with a focus on enhancing their accessibility. Both instruments integrate principles of accessibility theory and were guided by research on universal design, assessment accessibility, cognitive load theory, and research on item-writing and test development. The TAMI is a non-commercial instrument that has been made available to all state assessment directors and testing companies. Assessment researchers have used the ARM to conduct accessibility reviews of state assessment items for several state departments of education.\n"}
{"id": "8999379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8999379", "title": "Bioartificial liver device", "text": "Bioartificial liver device\n\nA bioartificial liver device (BAL) is an artificial extracorporeal supportive device for an individual who is suffering from acute liver failure.\n\nThe first bioartificial liver device was developed by Dr. Kenneth Matsumara and was named an invention of the year by \"Time\" magazine in 2001. Liver cells obtained from an animal were used instead of developing a piece of equipment for each function of the liver. The structure and function of the first device resembles that of today's BALs. Animal liver cells are suspended in a solution and a patient's blood is processed by a semipermeable membrane that allow toxins and blood proteins to pass but restricts an immunological response.\n\nAdvancements in bioengineering techniques in the decade after Matsumara's work have led to improved membranes and hepatocyte attachment systems. As time has progressed the sources of hepatocytes have increased. Cell sources now include primary porcine hepatocytes, primary human hepatocytes, human hepatoblastoma (C3A), immortalized human cell lines and stem cells.\n\nThe purpose of BAL-type devices, currently, is not to permanently replace liver functions, but to serve as a supportive device, either allowing the liver to regenerate properly upon acute liver failure, or to bridge the individual's liver functions until a transplant is possible.\n\nBALs are essentially bioreactors, with embedded hepatocytes (liver cells) that perform the functions of a normal [liver]. They process oxygenated blood plasma, which is separated from the other blood constituents.\nSeveral types of BALs are being developed, including hollow fiber systems and flat membrane sheet systems.\n\nOne type of BAL is similar to kidney dialysis systems that employ a hollow fiber cartridge. Hepatocytes are suspended in a gel solution, such as collagen, which is injected into a series of hollow fibers. In the case of collagen, the suspension is then gelled within the fibers, usually by a temperature change. The hepatocytes then contract the gel by their attachment to the collagen matrix, reducing the volume of the suspension and creating a flow space within the fibers. Nutrient media is circulated through the fibers to sustain the cells. During use, plasma is removed from the patients blood. The patient's plasma is fed into the space surrounding the fibers. The fibers, which are composed of a semi-permeable membrane, facilitate transfer of toxins, nutrients and other chemicals between the blood and the suspended cells. The membrane also keeps immune bodies, such as immunoglobulins, from passing to the cells to \nprevent an immune system rejection.\n\nThe advantages of using a BAL, over other dialysis-type devices (e.g. liver dialysis), is that metabolic functions (such as lipid and plasma lipoprotein synthesis, regulation of carbohydrate homeostasis, production of serum albumin and clotting factors, etc.), in addition to detoxification, can be replicated without the use of multiple devices. There are currently several BAL devices in clinical trials.\n\nA series of studies in 2004 showed that a BAL device reduced mortality by about half in acute liver failure cases. The studies, which covered 171 patients in the U.S. and Europe, compared standard supportive care to the use of a bioreactor device using pig liver cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "6901921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6901921", "title": "Biodontics", "text": "Biodontics\n\nBiodontics dentistry was founded by Dr. Edward Rossomando in 2001 as an area of oral health. Biodontics is funded by the United States National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR). The purpose of Biodontics is to expand the dental profession in its research capacity, skill sets, and entrepreneurship. An educational program known as the Biodontics Educational Program is held at the University of Connecticut School of Dental Medicine every July and assembles business leaders, entrepreneurs, management executives, scientists, architects, and dental manufacturers to give presentations and lectures to students from all dental schools.\n\nNew technologies and new educational models are believed by many to have disrupted and made obsolete the traditional models of dental education. The 1995 Institute of Medicine’s report, Dental Education at the Crossroads, suggested that dental schools must “continue efforts to increase the productivity of the dental work force, including appropriately credentialed and trained allied dental personnel”; and, “avoid policies to increase or decrease overall dental school enrollments.” The report’s recommendations stemmed from the fact that in 1993 six private dental schools closed; and many schools were plagued with inefficiencies which resulted in “gross wastes of student time [that added] to the student’s overcrowded week, squandering [of] patient time, and provided an inappropriate model of patient care.” Revisions in the process of accrediting dental schools was also recommended.\n\nIn 2002 the NIDCR began an initiative to fund experimental educational programs in dental schools across the country. The Biodontics Educational Program is one such program.\n\nThe Biodontics Educational Program (BEP) is held annually in July. The first class was made up of nine students from UConn; while the 2006 class was made up of 24 students from the Howard University, Marquette University, UConn, and New York University (NYU) dental schools. The program consisted of lectures and presentations from business leaders, entrepreneurs, management executives, scientists, architects, and dental manufacturers. New technologies, such as probiotics, dental lasers, as well as business practices including Kaizen training, were included in the program to offer students a wide range of experience. The rationale in exposing dental students to a wide range of fields is to prepare them for owning their own businesses and managing these businesses, and incorporating new technologies at a faster rate.\n\nThe American Biodontics Society was formed in 2005 with the mission to promote an active, expanding profession that is adaptable and accountable to new technologies and procedures, thereby improving the general oral health of the United States and enhancing its accessibility. The ABS acts as a forum for the detailed evaluation, discussion, and analysis of innovations in dentistry. The ABS has chapters developed or developing at New York University (NYU), Howard University, UConn, and Marquette University.\n\nDental Hypotheses(ISSN: 2155-8213) is the official publication of the American Biodontics Society.\n\n\nInstitute of Medicine's 1995 Report: Committee On The Future Of Dental Education. \"Dental Education At the Crossroads: Challenges and Change\". Ed. Marilyn J. Field. Institute of Medicine. Washington, DC: National Academy P, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "7205603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7205603", "title": "Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health", "text": "Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health\n\nThe Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health, or CADTH, is a Canadian national organisation that provides research and analysis to healthcare decision-makers.\n\nThe organisation was established in 1989 by the country's federal government, and those of its provinces and territories. Before April 2006, CADTH was known as the Canadian Coordinating Office for Health Technology Assessment (CCOHTA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19975307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19975307", "title": "Clean Water State Revolving Fund", "text": "Clean Water State Revolving Fund\n\nThe Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) is a self-perpetuating loan assistance authority for water quality improvement projects in the United States. The fund is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency and state agencies. The CWSRF, which replaced the Clean Water Act Construction Grants program, provides loans for the construction of municipal wastewater facilities and implementation of nonpoint source pollution control and estuary protection projects. Congress established the fund in the Water Quality Act of 1987. Since inception, cumulative assistance has surpassed US$126 Billion, and is continuing to grow through interest earnings, principal repayments, and leveraging.\n\nAll 50 states, plus Puerto Rico operate a CWSRF. The 51 CWSRF programs function like environmental infrastructure banks by distributing low interest rate loans for water quality projects. Loan repayments are recycled back into individual CWSRF programs. States can only use the funds to make loans, purchase local debt, or issue financial guarantees. They cannot make grants or otherwise dissipate the capital in their funds. Principal repayments plus interest earnings become available to finance new projects, allowing the funds to \"revolve\" over time. States can also increase their CWSRF financing capacity by issuing CWSRF-backed revenue or general obligation bonds. As of 2007, 27 states have leveraged their programs in this way, raising an additional $20.6 billion for important water quality projects.\n\nThe 51 funds are capitalized in part by federal and state contributions. For every dollar contributed by the federal government, states contribute 20 cents. As of 2017, the cumulative federal appropriation to the 51 CWSRF programs had reached over $42 billion, with corresponding state contributions of $84 billion. Financial leveraging techniques conducted by state funds had snowballed federal and state contributions into $126 billion.\n\nStates are responsible for the operation of their CWSRF program. Under the CWSRF, states may provide various types of assistance, including loans, refinancing, purchasing, or guaranteeing local debt and purchasing bond insurance. States may also set specific loan terms, including interest rates from zero percent to market rate and repayment periods of up to 30 years. States have the flexibility to target financial resources to their specific community and environmental needs.\n\nStates may customize loan terms to meet the needs of small and disadvantaged communities, or to provide incentives for certain types of projects. Beginning in 2009, Congress authorized the CWSRFs to provide further financial assistance through additional subsidization, such as grants, principal forgiveness, and negative interest rate loans. Through the Green Project Reserve, the CWSRFs target critical green infrastructure, water and energy efficiency improvements, and other environmentally innovative activities.\n\nSince the inaugural CWSRF project was funded in 1988, the 51 state-run CWSRF programs have provided over $126 billion in assistance for water quality projects through 38,441 loans. In 2017, the programs provided over $7.4 billion in assistance to loan recipients of all sizes, including farmers, homeowners, small businesses, nonprofit organizations, and major municipalities. In 2017 the average loan interest rate was 1.4%, compared to the prevailing market rate of 3.5%.\n\nWhile wastewater treatment projects have comprised 96 percent of all CWSRF funding to date, over $4.6 billion has gone to nonpoint source and estuary projects. The number of assistance agreements for nonpoint source projects has grown significantly over the years, from only two projects in 1990 to 1,305 in 2007. The low cost and flexibility of CWSRF financing has helped the programs serve communities of all sizes. In 2007, two-thirds of all loans went to communities with populations below 3,500. In addition, over $1.1 billion in assistance targeted communities with fewer than 10,000 people (see Figure 3).\n\nThe programs are projected to continue to grow over time, as interest earnings and repayments of loans increase (see Figure 4). Nationally, the CWSRF program provides a remarkable return on federal investment: as of 2017, the program has financed $3 in projects for every dollar the federal government has invested.\n\nThe demand for CWSRF funds nationwide can be attributed to high needs, low interest rates, and flexible financing options. The rate of fund utilization has increased steadily since 1988, signaling increased demand for funds as well as efficient state operations. As of 2007, 97 percent of all available funds were committed to projects. To meet high levels of demand, 27 states have chosen to implement leveraging approaches by issuing revenue and general obligation bonds that are secured by CWSRF assets. Through leveraging, states have increased their capacity to finance important water quality projects.\n\n27 CWSRF's leverage their funds to increase the amount of capital available for loan assistance. This means that these states augment their CWSRF capital by issuing municipal bonds. Typically, they loan the proceeds of the bonds while investing their capitalization funds (both state and federal). These investments serve two purposes. First, they are pledged to the bondholders as additional collateral, thus more than assuring a AAA bond rating. Second, the interest on the invested capital is used to pay subsidies to the CWSRF program's local utility borrowers.\n\nThe CWSRF Benefits Reporting System (CBR), launched in 2005 and adopted by all 51 state programs, produces a quantifiable record of the environmental and public health impact of CWSRF investments. Figures 6 and 8 present data reported in the CBR System to date. CBR allows users to record anticipated water quality improvements from every CWSRF loan directed towards water quality improvement. The 51 state programs have used CBR to track the environmental impact of 4,878 projects. The data link $15.8 billion in CWSRF loans to projects that protect and restore drinking water sources, recreational areas, and aquatic wildlife throughout the country. In 2007, CWSRF programs funded more than 964 projects designed to protect and restore water bodies, including 597 projects with direct human health benefits.\n\nClean Water Act sections 212, 319, and 320 provide the statutory authority for programs funded by the CWSRF. The CWSRF is authorized to provide financial assistance for the construction of publicly owned treatment works (sec. 212), the development and execution of state's comprehensive conservation management plans (sec. 319), and the development and execution of an estuary conservation and management plan (sec. 320).\n\nEligible projects under CWA section 212 include the capital costs for the construction and maintenance of publicly owned treatment works (POTWs).\n\nEligible projects under CWA section 319 (nonpoint source projects) may include:\n\nCWA section 320 (estuary management) allows the CWSRF to fund publicly and privately owned projects, as long as the project is part of the state's Comprehensive Conservation Management Plan (CCMP) and is sanctioned in the plan.\n\nProjects must have a direct benefit to the water quality of an estuary. This includes:\n\nIn many cases, estuary level protection plans are combined with other elements of an overall project. Where the water quality portion of a project is clearly distinct from other portions of the project, only the water quality portion can be funded by the CWSRF.\n\nThe CWSRF employs a variety of loan assistance mechanisms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to the income stream into the program from state match, loan repayments, interest earnings, investment earning, and bond proceeds from leveraging, the return on every federal dollar investment to the CWSRF is currently $3 as of 2017.\n\nEPA has projected that over a twenty-year time horizon, the initial federal investment into the CWSRF can result in the construction of up to three to four times as many projects compared to programs that utilize a one-time federal grant, depending on the allocation of resources to the program.\n\nClimate change threatens both water quality and water quantity. The CWSRF can assist water utilities and municipalities mitigate the effects of climate change as they relate to water quality by capitalizing costs related to planning and implementing new technologies. Eligible criteria include the following.\n\nWastewater and stormwater treatment facilities consume energy to collect and distribute treated water. The CWSRF can fund capital costs needed to power these publicly owned treatment works (POTWs) and strongly encourages the implementation of energy efficient technology.\n\nThe CWSRF can fund the \"capital costs\" of green infrastructure projects with direct water quality benefits. Capital costs include traditional infrastructure expenditures (such as pipes, pumps and treatment plants), as well as unconventional infrastructure costs (like land conservation, tree plantings, equipment purchases, planning and design, environmental cleanups and even the development and initial delivery of environmental education programs). One of the few things the CWSRF cannot fund is the operation and maintenance costs of a project.\n\nThe Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 established additional financing mechanisms and includes eligibility for green infrastructure projects.\n\nThe CWSRF can finance carbon sequestration through a variety of methods, including urban heat-island reduction, energy saving achievement, and habitat preservation. Aquatic environments, green spaces, and geologic carbon storage are efficient carbon sinks that can be utilized with CWSRF loans.\n\n\nEligible water conservation and reuse projects include:\n\nPublic-private partnerships, or \"P3s\", are one investment technique by which municipalities can finance the upgrade, expansion, repair, or implementation of new technology for wastewater infrastructure. The CWSRF, because of its unique financing authorities, is authorized to oversee (in concert with the EPA's Assistant Administrator for Water), provide technical assistance, and guidance for municipalities that choose to investigate P3s for the provision of their wastewater services.\n\nA P3, as defined by the Environmental Financial Advisory Board, is a contractual, institutional, or other relationship between government and a private sector entity that results in sharing of duties, risks, and rewards of providing a service in which the government has an interest, recognizing that the government retains ultimate responsibility for insuring that social needs and objectives are met.\n\nP3s are sought by states and local governments as a way to reduce the financial burden of water pollution and infrastructure needs. It has been estimated that, of the costly capital improvements, upgrades, expansions, and new compliance requirements imposed on water and wastewater utilities, local governments bear 95% of the costs. Among local government expenditures, only education is higher.\n\nCongress passed the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 (WIFIA) to provide an expanded credit program for water and wastewater infrastructure projects, with broader eligibility criteria than the previously-authorized revolving funds for wastewater and drinking water. Pursuant to the act, EPA established its Water Infrastructure and Resiliency Finance Center in 2015 to help local governments and municipal utilities design innovative financing mechanisms, including public-private partnerships. Congress amended the WIFIA program in 2015 and 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31874573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31874573", "title": "Clinical Care Classification System", "text": "Clinical Care Classification System\n\nThe Clinical Care Classification (CCC) System is a standardized, coded nursing terminology that identifies the discrete elements of nursing practice. The CCC provides a unique framework and coding structure. Used for documenting the plan of care; following the nursing process in all health care settings.\n\nThe Clinical Care Classification (CCC), previously the Home Health Care Classification (HHCC), was originally created to document nursing care in home health and ambulatory care settings. Specifically designed for clinical information systems, the CCC facilitates nursing documentation at the point-of-care. The CCC was developed empirically through the examination of approximately 40,000 textual phrases representing nursing diagnoses/patient problems, and 72,000 phrases depicting patient care services and/or actions. The use of the CCC has expanded into other settings, and it is claimed to be appropriate for multidisciplinary documentation.\n\nThe CCC, capturing the essence of patient care, consists of two interrelated terminologies – the CCC of Nursing Diagnoses & Outcomes and the CCC of Nursing Interventions & and Actions – classified by 21 Care Components that link the two together. This merge enables a roadmap to other health-related classification systems.\n\nThe Clinical Care Classification (CCC) System is an American Nurses Association (ANA)-recognized comprehensive, coded, nursing terminology standard. In 2007, the CCC was accepted by the Department of Health and Human Services as the first national nursing terminology. The computable structure of the CCC System allows nurses, allied health professionals, and researchers to determine; care needs (resources), workload (productivity), and outcomes (quality).\n\nIn 1988 to 1990, Harriet Werley established the Nursing Minimum Data Set, which consisted of 12 variables: 8 variables focused on patient demographics and the remaining 4 focused on nursing practice. These were (a) nursing diagnoses, (b) nursing interventions, (c) nursing outcomes, and (d) nursing intensity. The Nursing Minimum Data Set became the basis for the nursing classification standards recognized by the ANA. In 1990, the CCAIN was renamed the Database Steering Committee.\n\nIn 1991, the Database Steering Committee submitted to the Congress on Nursing Practice a resolution that NI be adopted as a new nursing specialty. This submission which was accepted, leading to the development of the Nursing Informatics: Scope and Standards of Practice and the certification of NI specialists. In 1992, the Database Steering Committee developed the criteria, recognizing the first 4 of 12 nursing classifications/terminologies. One being the CCC System. Previously known as the Home Health Care Classification System, as nursing standards for the documentation of nursing practice using computer technology systems. The ANA subsequently submitted the four of six classifications/terminologies to the National Library of Medicine for input into its developing Unified Medical Language System’s (UMLS) Metathesaurus.\n\nIn 2006, President George W. Bush issued an Executive Order (No. 13410) that every person in the country should have an EHR by 2014. In 2007/2008, the Healthcare Information Technology Standards Panel selected and recommended the Clinical Care Classification (CCC) System as the first national nursing terminology inter operable for the exchange of information among HIT systems. The CCC System was one of the standards in the first set of 55 national standards approved for use in the EHR, by the Department of Health and Human Services (AHIC, 2006) and the only national nursing terminology standard.\n\n\nThe CCC Model depicts the documentation of patient care by nurses and allied health providers in any health care setting as an interactive, interrelated, and continuous feedback process. The CCC Model illustrates the relationship between the CCC of Nursing Diagnoses and Outcomes and the CCC of Nursing Interventions and Actions. The arrows are bi-directional indicating the continual flow and feedback among the three major concepts: \n\n\n\n\nThe CCC System consists of discrete atomic-level data elements that encompasses nursing diagnoses, interventions, and outcomes. The CCC is a nursing terminology specifically developed for computerization: e.g. electronic healthcare information systems (EHR), computer-based patient records (CPR), and Clinical Information Systems (CIS), from research which collected live patient care data. The CCC System describes the six steps of the nursing process:\n\nThe nursing process is the standard of professional nursing practice recognized by the ANA for clinical decision making in a coded, standardized framework. The CCC supports the exchange of nursing information and makes available for data retrieval and analysis in the electronic health record and health information record systems databases specifically linking nursing diagnoses to nursing interventions to nursing outcomes.\n\n\nThe Clinical Care Classification System was developed from a research study conducted by Dr. Virginia K. Saba and a research team through a contract with the Health Care Financing Agency (HCFA), currently known as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The objective was to develop a computerized method for assessing and classifying patients for the prediction of nursing resources needs and for evaluating the outcomes of care. \"To accomplish this goal, data on actual resource use, that could objectively be measured, was collected and used to predict resource requirements\" (Saba, 1995). The CCC System was developed from retrospective research data from 8,967 patient records from a sample of 800 organizations randomly stratified by staff size, type of ownership, and geographic location. The methodology was applied to a national sample of home health agencies that provided all services and products (Spradley & Dorsey, 1985). Dr. Saba and the research team analyzed and coded the research from 10,000 patient records from which the team obtained more than 70,000 statements focusing on nursing interventions and actions provided to patients. Also used were 40,000 diagnostic conditions and problems describing patient care needs.\n\nThe CCC System is a standardized framework consisting of four levels designed to allow nursing data to flow upward as well as downward. At the highest level the CCC System Framework consists of four healthcare patterns (Saba, 2007):\n\n\nEach represents a different set of Care Components. The second level consists of the 21 Care Components which serve to classify the two terminologies and define as a cluster of elements that depict one of four healthcare patterns. The third level consists of:\n\n\nThe fourth level is represented by the expected and actual outcomes 182 diagnoses each with one of three outcomes for Expected Outcome (Saba, 2007, p. 154):\n\n\nAnd one of three outcomes for Actual Outcome:\n\n\nThe CCC System uses a five-character structure to code the two terminologies: (1) CCC of Nursing Diagnoses and Outcomes and (2) CCC of Nursing Interventions and Actions. The CCC coding structure is paced on the format of the \"International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems: Tenth Revision: Volume 1, WHO, 1992\". The coding strategy for each terminology consists of the following (Saba, 2007): The graphic shows examples of the coding structure for a CCC diagnosis code and a CCC intervention code.\n\nThe significance of the CCC is a nursing terminology that completes the missing link needed to address nursing contribution to healthcare quality. Nursing care may be the most critical factor in a patient’s treatment and recovery. The partnership of nursing and technology is vital for designing nursing practice environments.\n\nThe benefit of the CCC is the ability to represent the essence of nursing care in health information systems and applications during any patient care, transfer or transition. The CCC supports the mandate of accrediting organizations to reconcile patient-centered information (The Joint Commission, 2011) and supports the informational exchange and data integrity requirements of CMS and the Office of the National Coordinator (ONC) for meaningful use when patient data is exchanged by using the Nurse Process recognized for professional nursing.\n\n\nThe computable structure of the Clinical Care Classification (CCC) System in the public domain (copyright permission) promotes the system upgrades of existing electronic healthcare information systems. The system architecture of the CCC offers a return on investment with discrete atomic-level data to describe the impact of nursing care on care quality, productivity (workload), resources (staffing), and outcomes management.\n\nNursing Practice Applications:\n\nNursing Education Applications:\n\nNursing Research Applications:\n\nNursing Administration Applications:\n"}
{"id": "16834162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16834162", "title": "Community Therapeutic Care", "text": "Community Therapeutic Care\n\nCommunity Therapeutic Care is a new approach to dealing with acute malnutrition.\n\nCommunity-based Therapeutic Care (CTC) was developed to improve the coverage and impact of selective feeding programs for the treatment of acute malnutrition. Its central innovation is to provide therapeutic feeding in the home.\n\nBefore the development of CTC, the traditional way of treating malnutrition was through therapeutic feeding centers: large centers where patients are admitted for an average of 30 days. Carers of malnourished children often have to travel long distances to access these centers, many having to leave the rest of their children at home for three weeks or longer.\n\nUntil recently, therapeutic feeding centers, that require long inpatient stays, have been the only accepted mode of treatment for severe acute malnutrition. CTC programmes treat the majority of these cases at home and aim to restrict inpatient care to only those suffering from acute malnutrition with medical complications. They use decentralised networks of outpatient treatment sites to provide a take-home food ration known as Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF) along with routine medicines.\n\nBy providing easy access and reducing the opportunity costs associated with enrollment in a therapeutic feeding programme, the CTC model increases the coverage and impact of humanitarian feeding interventions.\n\nDuring the early years, the focus of CTC was on developing and demonstrating a model that can achieve rapid and widespread impact on the mortality and morbidity of children under five in emergency situations. Data from CTC programmes demonstrate that CTC can achieve very high coverage and excellent recovery rates. CTC has gained widespread acceptance in the humanitarian sector and is now the preferred model for selective feeding in emergency contexts.\n"}
{"id": "86254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86254", "title": "Condatis", "text": "Condatis\n\nIn Celtic mythology, Condatis (\"waters meet\") was a deity worshipped primarily in northern Britain but also in Gaul. He was associated with the confluences of rivers, in particular the River Wear which runs its course largely within County Durham. Condatis is known from several inscriptions in Britain and a single inscription found at Alonnes, Sarthe, France. In each case he is equated with the Roman god Mars.\n\nIn 1886, a Roman altar was discovered near the Roman station at Chester-le-Street, where the Cong Burn joins the River Wear. The altar was buried six feet deep in soil of an alluvial character. The inscription, which was to DEO marti CONDATI, was formed by a series of punctures. The altar probably belonged to the end of the second or the beginning of the third century. A fragmentary altar bearing the Inscription MARTI CONDATI has been found in Bowes, near Barnard Castle in County Durham and another in Piercebridge, the site of a Roman fort, also in County Durham. Recently a new inscription to Condatis has been discovered at Cramond in the Lothian region of Scotland (AE 1978, 451; dedicated to d(eo) M(arti) Con[dati]).\n\nIn Roman times he was equated with Mars, probably in his healing function. The association with the confluence of waters would tend to link this deity with the prevalent Celtic cult of thermal waters rather than solely with war. Again, this may reflect the origins of Condatis as a protector of aberau (the confluence of waters) with his martial aspect only being predominant in the Roman world.\n\nThe name Condatis is derived from condate and means 'God of the Confluence'. Names with the root 'condate' are found in place-names such as Condé sur Itan and Condat Cantal in France as well as the ancient name of Northwich in Cheshire Condate. Condate was also the Celtic name of Rennes, then the city of the and now the capital of the region of Brittany. \n"}
{"id": "9527732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9527732", "title": "Davis Inlet", "text": "Davis Inlet\n\nDavis Inlet was a Naskapi community in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador, formerly inhabited by the Mushuau Innu First Nation. It was named for its adjacent fjord, itself named for its non-aboriginal discoverer, John Davis.\n\nThe community developed around 1924 during a period of sparse caribou populations when the Innu began spending their summers along the shoreline of Davis Inlet. This location was chosen because of its accessibility, its offering of other non-caribou food sources, and the presence of a Hudson's Bay Company trading post that was able to supply traps, ammunition, tobacco, butter, sugar and flour to the Innu in exchange for furs. Davis Inlet was also frequented by Roman Catholic missionaries, whom the Innu found helpful. In the following years the Innu began transitioning from a nomadic lifestyle to a more sedentary one, travelling inland to hunt caribou in the fall and winter, but spending the summer at Davis Inlet. Without prior consultation, in 1948 the Newfoundland government relocated the Innu of Davis Inlet to the small community of Nutak in northern Labrador, promising better opportunities for fishing and hunting. However, two years later the Innu surprised government officials by returning to Davis Inlet, having made their way back through the interior of Labrador on foot. The government continued to consider relocation of the Innu, and in 1967 with the urging of government officials and missionaries the Innu of Davis Inlet moved and settled on Iluikoyak Island on a year-round basis, establishing the Davis Inlet community (known as Utshimasits by the Innu).\n\nProblems with the new site for the Davis Inlet community began as early as 1969. Settling on Iluikoyak Island inhibited the ability of the Innu to continue their traditional means of providing food by hunting caribou on the mainland and the community struggled adapting to its new-found dependence on store-bought food. Iluikoyak Island is solid rock, and because working the rock was seen as too expensive, the houses provided by the government for settlement were made without basements or water and sewage systems. The houses were also small, poorly constructed, and not designed to house extended families. It was soon discovered that water supply on the island was insufficient, and most of it contaminated. Waste began to pile up, and diseases such as tuberculosis began to appear.\n\nMany of the adults in Davis Inlet battled alcoholism and on Valentine's Day, 1992, six unattended children aged between six months and nine years died in a house fire while their parents were drinking at a Valentine's Day dance. About one-quarter of all adults in Davis Inlet had attempted suicide in the previous year, and between 1973 and 1995 fifty lives were lost in the community of 465 in alcohol-related deaths.\n\nInhalant abuse was another problem in Davis Inlet, with 47 children being recognized as chronic abusers of solvents, some as young as age 5. In 1993, a video (recorded by Simeon Tshakapesh who is now Deputy Grand Chief of the Innu Nation) was released to the media of six children in Davis Inlet between the ages of 11 and 14 huffing gasoline in an unheated shack in winter and shouting that they wanted to die. Shamed by the negative publicity and international outcry surrounding the events in 1993, the Canadian government agreed to move the Innu to mainland Labrador, and in 2002 at a cost of nearly $200 million the community of Davis Inlet was relocated to Natuashish. However, the problems of suicide, alcohol and solvent abuse followed the community and in 2008 they voted to outlaw alcohol entirely.\n\n"}
{"id": "14298391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14298391", "title": "Dental anesthesia", "text": "Dental anesthesia\n\nDental anesthesia (or dental anaesthesia) is a field of anesthesia that includes not only local anesthetics but sedation and general anesthesia.\n\nThe most commonly used local anesthetic is lidocaine (also called xylocaine or lignocaine), a modern replacement for procaine (also known as novocaine). Its half-life in the body is about 1.5–2 hours. Other local anesthetic agents in current use include articaine (also called septocaine or ubistesin), bupivacaine (a long-acting anesthetic), Prilocaine (also called Citanest), and mepivacaine (also called Carbocaine or Polocaine). A combination of these may be used depending on the situation. Also, most agents come in two forms: with and without epinephrine (adrenaline) or other vasoconstrictor that allow the agent to last longer and also controls bleeding in the tissue during procedures. Usually the case is classified using the ASA Physical Status Classification System before any anesthesia is given.\n\nLocal anaesthesia is deposited at the buccal (cheek) side of the maxillary alveolus which can diffuse through the thin cortical plate of the maxilla, then further into the pulp of the tooth in order to achieve dental anaesthesia effect.\nBoth regional block and infiltration techniques are considered the first choice injections for anaesthetising the mandibular teeth.\n\nDifferent techniques are chosen based on different factors:\n\nThe inferior alveolar nerve block is probably one of the most common methods used by dentist to anaesthetise the mandibular teeth in adults. This technique aims to inject the needle and deposit local anaesthetic close the near to the nerve before it enters the mandibular foramen, which locates on the medial aspect of the mandibular ramus. This is to block the nerve transmission in the inferior alveolar nerve before entering into the bone through the mandibular foramen.\n\nIt is an alternative anaesthetic injection techniques that was first publish in 1910. Intraosseous anaesthetic injection involves the deposition of anaesthetic solution directly into the cancellous alveolar bone adjacent to the apex of the root of the tooth to be anaesthetised through a small hole.It also can be use more involved dental procedures such as surgery or endodontic therapy (root canals).\n\nIntraligamentary or periodontal ligament anaesthesia is a technique used primarily for endodontic treatment and to supplement inferior dental blocks where they may have failed. This technique involves ‘the deposition of at least 0.2ml of local anaesthetic solution for each root of the tooth’ diffusing into the marrow spaces surrounding the teeth. Clinicians may adopt this technique due to some benefits such as: no soft tissue anaesthesia, use of a smaller amount of anaesthetic and single tooth anaesthesia however use may be contraindicated due to claims that patients report sharp pain upon administration of interligamentary aesthetic. However the use of a high-pressure syringe and ultra fine needle provide both chemical anaesthesia (by action of anaesthetic agent) and mechanical anaesthesia (by pressure from deposition). Interligamentary anaesthetic may be complicated by poor operator technique where rapid injection and excessive volume is used; this could lead to sensitivity to biting and percussion.\n\nResearch has shown that the rate of onset of anaesthesia in the patients was between 15-20 second; this provides an advantage compared to that of inferior alveolar dental block. Other advantages include a decrease in overall trauma in comparison to conventional blocks therefore being an ideal procedure for extractions and endodontic treatment in children.\n\nInter-pulpal anaesthesia involves the direct placement of anaesthetic agent using a small needle (of 25 or 27 gauge) into the pulp chamber; it is injected under pressure leading to brief yet intense discomfort. This particular technique provides effective pulpal anaesthesia as the pulpal tissue is subject to chemical action by the anaesthetic agent and mechanical stimulus due to the pressure applied. This method is usually adopted when all other techniques have been unsuccessful and must include pre-operative warnings of sharp pain. However it may prove useful for pulpal extirpation or endodontic treatment on any tooth where anaesthesia is difficult to achieve. Nevertheless, due to the patient discomfort associated with this technique it should not be the primary anaesthetic technique used.\n\nIntra-papillary anaesthesia is used as a supplementary technique to infiltrations in order to increase comfort for the patient and is primarily used to replace palatal or lingual infiltrations. This is exceptionally successful in paediatric patients and works to replace or increase comfort for particularly uncomfortable infiltrations such as palatal or lingual infiltrations. The technique involves direct deposition of anaesthetic agent into the papilla with associated tissue blanching at site of injection. The point of penetration should lie in attached gingiva 2mm apical of the papilla \n\nPressure with a cotton swab in the area to distract the nerve sensation of pain when the needle enters certain areas such as palatal tissue.\n\nTechnology that involves using electric current to block the reception or generation of pain signals; the pain control can be transient.\n\nA jet injection aims to create a release of pressure strong enough to push a liquid medication dose through a small orifice. This is usually done with the help of an energy source which is mechanical. With this, a thin column of fluid is created which has the force to penetrate soft tissues, thus a needle is not required.\n\nAdvantages:\n\n· Faster drug absorption at injection site\n\n· Easy to use\n\n· Little/no pain\n\n· Less tissue damage\n\nHowever, in dentistry, the effectiveness of this technique has been reported to be limited.\n\nExamples of jet injections include: Syrijet, MED-JET H III and iCT injection SE by Dentium.\n\nWhen considering the use of a local anaesthesia there are many factors which should be considered. In terms of contraindications associated with LA there are “absolute” and “relative” contraindications. When something is said to have an “absolute” contraindication this underlines that under no circumstance would that LA be selected to administer to that specific patient as it poses a potential life-threatening risk e.g. allergy. When the LA has a “relative” contraindication the administration of the LA is not preferable and should be avoided, but does not pose a life-threatening risk.\n\nAs stated previously Local Anaesthesia used in dentistry can vary significantly as there are various preparations with a multitude of qualities. Each preparation has slight differences in how the anaesthetic effects the body. This is due to the use of different constituents. Local Anaesthetics which contain adrenaline such as Lidocaine (using 1:80,000 of adrenaline) or Articaine (using 1:100,000 of adrenaline) have a direct effect on the cardiac output by increasing the rate and contraction of the heart itself. Due to these effects, if a patient suffers from unstable angina or severe cardiac dysrhythmia, these preparations are often discouraged as they may predispose to unfavourable side effects. Studies found that both articaine given by infiltration and lidocaine given by inferior block were equally efficient when used for routine dental treatments in pediatric patients, however, articaine injections caused less post-opserative pain.\n\nAs an alternative, other preparations such as Mepivicaine Hydrochloride or Prilocaine (containing Felypressin) can be used. Prilocaine is especially suitable for a patient who wishes to avoid adrenaline or may have a latex/preservative allergy. The main contraindication of Prilocaine is that it has a short half life and it possesses a mild cytotoxic effect, therefore should be avoided in pregnancy. This cytotoxic effect can influence the uterine tone and interfere with circulation, which can pose detrimental effects on the pregnancy. Mepivicaine Hydrochloride is then considered if Prilocaine is contraindicated. Mepivicaine is the least vasodilatory anesthetic as it has no vasoconstrictors and no preservatives added.\n\nThe dose of local anesthesia is often reduced when a patient has any systemic health implications or habits which may cause an interference. From time to time the local anaesthetic itself should be reduced (therefore reducing the maximum dose). This is particularly done when alcoholism, anaemia (if using Prilocaine), anorexia, bradycardia or GORD is concerned. On other occasions the vasoconstrictor used (often adrenaline) must be reduced when an individual suffers from angina, bradycardia, chronic bronchitis, cardia disarrhythmia, COPD or glaucoma. These include drug abuse, calcium channel blocker containing medications, beta blocker medications or liver disease as this impairs the metabolism.\n\nThe variety of techniques associated when giving a local anaesthetic can affect the success and if done incorrectly lead to a possible fracture of the needle tip. It is extremely rare for the needle to fracture whilst giving an injection intra-orally unless an inadequate technique is adopted. To prevent such an occurrence, especially when performing an inferior alveolar nerve block, it is recommended to not bend the needle, to use the correct needle length and to not insert the needle up to the hub.\n\nThe Inferior alveolar nerve anaesthesia or block or IANB (sometimes termed \"inferior dental block\", or wrongly referred to as the \"mandibular block\") probably is anesthetized more often than any other nerve in the body. An injection blocks sensation in the inferior alveolar nerve, which runs from the angle of the mandible down the medial aspect of the mandible, innervating the mandibular teeth, lower lip, chin, and parts of the tongue, which is effective for dental work in the mandibular arch. To anesthetize this nerve, the needle is inserted somewhat posterior to the most distal mandibular molar on one side of the mouth. The lingual nerve is also anesthetized through diffusion of the agent to produce a numb tongue as well as anesthetizing the floor of the mouth tissue, including that around the tongue side or lingual of the teeth.\n\nSeveral nondental nerves are usually anesthetized during an inferior alveolar block. The mental nerve, which supplies cutaneous innervation to the anterior lip and chin, is a distal branch of the inferior alveolar nerve. When the inferior alveolar nerve is blocked, the mental nerve is blocked also, resulting in a numb lip and chin. Nerves lying near the point where the inferior alveolar nerve enters the mandible often are also anesthetized during inferior alveolar anesthesia, such as affecting hearing (auriculotemporal nerve).\n\nThe facial nerve lies some distance from the inferior alveolar nerve within the parotid salivary gland, but in rare cases anesthetic can be injected far enough posteriorly to anesthetize that nerve. The result is a transient facial paralysis, with the injected side of the face having temporary loss of the use of the muscles of facial expression that include the inability to close the eyelid and the drooping of the labial commissure on the affected side for a few hours, which disappears when the anesthesia wears off.\n\nIn contrast, the superior alveolar nerves are not usually anesthetized directly because they are difficult to approach with a needle. For this reason, the maxillary arch is usually anesthetized locally for dental work by inserting the needle beneath the oral mucosa surrounding the teeth so as to anesthetize the smaller branches.\n\nA dental syringe is a syringe for the injection of a local anesthetic. It consists of a breech-loading syringe fitted with a sealed cartridge containing anesthetic solution.\n\nIn the UK and Ireland, manually operated hand syringes to inject Lidocaine in to patient's gums.\n\n\n\nProvided a dentist performs proper aspiration to avoid intravenous injections, local anesthetics containing epinephrine (adrenaline) are safe to use during pregnancy. lignocaine and prilocaine are assigned a category B ranking by the FDA and are therefore safe for use during pregnancy. Lignocaine and prilocaine are sold as 2% and 4% formulations, respectively. It is therefore safer to use the lignocaine so as to administer a lower concentration of the drug to the pregnant patient.\n\nMepivicaine, articaine, bupivicaine are given an FDA category C ranking and so should be avoided. Benzocaine, the ingredient of most topical anesthetic formulations, is also ranked as category C and should be avoided. Lignocaine should be used as topical anesthetic instead.\n\nEpinephrine in high doses is harmful to a pregnant woman in that it affects uterine blood flow. However its use in low dose with local anesthetic administration is warranted. The epinephrine causes vasoconstriction which in turn reduces systemic distribution of the anesthetic as well as prolongs its action in addition to decreasing bleeding at the operating site. Lidocaine 2% with 1:100,000 adrenaline is the local anesthetic of choice in the treatment of pregnant women.\n\nAllergic reactions from local anaesthesia have been reported in some patients. However, this occurrence is rare even in patients who had a past history of adverse reactions to LA.\n\nThere are mainly 2 classes of local anaesthetic agents: Amide or Ester linkages, based on their chemical structure.\nGenuine allergic reactions of an amide LA is very uncommon. An ester LA is more possible to result in an allergic reaction because the compound will be broken down to para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) which is a trigger for allergic reactions. In general dentistry, only topical applications of LA contains esters (benzocaine) when applied onto area before LA is administered.\n\nIf one is allergic to an ester LA, then the use of other types of ester LA should be avoided as the breakdown of all esters will produce PABA. However, patients allergic to ester LA will usually not be affected by amide LA because PABA is not produced upon breakdown of amide LA. Unlike ester LA, allergy to an amide LA will not eliminate the use of other types of amide LA.\n\nSome reactions are caused by administration of too much drug, usually because of the route of entry of drug (intravenously) or the quick uptake of drug into the system, or the aftereffect of the vasoconstrictor. Unfavourable reactions to LA can be classified into 3 different groups: psychogenic, allergic, toxic.\n\nUnfavourable reactions to LA are commonly be due to a hyperemotional response to a perceived danger within someone’s mind, and it could be demonstrated in several ways. Examples are temporal loss of consciousness, sweating, flush, change in heart rate or blood pressure, panic attack, hyperventilation, of which may be mistaken as allergic reactions.\n\nWhen treating such patients, treat them with care and take into consideration their anxiety. During treatment if the patients feel faint or experiences a drop in blood pressure, lay them flat and keep their legs elevated in an attempt to restore their blood pressure. Loosen any tight clothing and keep the patients sugary food/drink after they regain consciousness. Reassure the patient.\nThis may occur when there are large amounts of anaesthetic within their vascular system, which may be due to them receiving repeated LA, intravenous entry of drug, or have underlying systemic conditions that does not metabolize or utilize the drug efficiently. Signs and symptoms mainly involve the nervous system e.g. aggressive behaviour, drowsiness, speech alteration, disorientation etc.\n\nTheir symptoms should usually resolve in a few hours, up to 12 hours, as the body will gradually rid the bloodstream of the drug. Assure the patient that their symptoms will improve after a few hours and that such a reaction should not recur, and that there is no need to abstain from that drug hereafter.\n\nSuch reactions can be minimized via practicing safe injection methods using an aspirating syringe to prevent injecting in blood vessels, slow administration of drug, and avoid overprescribing LA, keeping in mind the patient’s weight, age and medical history.\n\nGenuine allergy to LA will manifest either as Type 1 or Type 4 hypersensitivity. Signs and symptoms will vary depending on the type of allergy. Type 1 reactions have a rapid onset of symptoms which include swelling, redness, rashes, itchiness, chest tightness, breathing problems. A Type 4 reaction has a delayed onset of symptoms and is usually localized to the site of injection.\n\nIf a genuine allergic reaction to LA should occur, the patient should be treated as an emergency for anaphylaxis, according to the guidelines in the respective areas. For the UK, the section on medical emergencies in dental practice in the “Prescribing in Dental Practice” part in the BNF should be referred to. The patient should be sent immediately to the hospital if their condition worsens.\n\nThe individual should undergo further tests to certify their allergy to the LA or for other possible causes of the adverse reaction.\n\nThe gate control theory explains that pain can be reduced if the touch nerve fibres are stimulated due to non-harmful stimuli.\n\nAdvancement in techniques used to deliver local anaesthesia are very important. There are types of local anaesthesia that apply vibrations to the skin while the injection is being placed into the skin. This uses the gate control theory to minimise pain to the patient. The high frequency vibrations coming from the device which is attached to the syringe inhibit the pain sensations coming from the needle. They may interfere with the signals of pain by closing the gate in the brain. The nerve fibres that are stimulated are the Ab fibres using pressure or vibration. \"Other receptors called meissner’s corpuscles in the deeper tissues and bone also contribute.\" This closes a ‘neural gate’ This decreases the patient’s feeling of pain.\n\nMethods used by dentist to reduce pain during anaesthesia by using the gate control theory are: Warming of the local anaesthetic cartridge, Stretching the oral mucosa, Gentle rubbing of the extra-oral skin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1692808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1692808", "title": "Epizootic", "text": "Epizootic\n\nIn epizoology, an epizootic (from Greek: \"epi-\" upon + \"zoon\" animal) is a disease event in a nonhuman animal population, analogous to an epidemic in humans. An epizootic may be: restricted to a specific locale (an \"outbreak\"), general (an \"epizootic\"), or widespread (\"panzootic\"). High population density is a major contributing factor to epizootics. Aquaculture is an industry sometimes plagued by disease because of the large number of fish confined to a small area.\n\nDefining an epizootic can be subjective; it is based upon the number of new cases in a given animal population, during a given period, and must be judged to be a rate that substantially exceeds what is expected based on recent experience (\"i.e.\" a sharp elevation in the incidence rate). Because it is based on what is \"expected\" or thought normal, a few cases of a very rare disease (like a TSE outbreak in a cervid population) might be classified as an \"epizootic\", while many cases of a common disease (like lymphocystis in esocids) would not.\n\nCommon diseases that occur at a constant but relatively high rate in the population are said to be \"enzootic\" (\"cf.\" the epidemiological meaning of \"endemic\" for human diseases). An example of an enzootic disease would be the influenza virus in some bird populations or, at a lower incidence, the Type IVb strain of VHS in certain Atlantic fish populations.\n\nAn example of an epizootic would be the 1990 outbreak of Newcastle disease virus in double-crested cormorant colonies on the Great Lakes that resulted in the death of some 10,000 birds.\n"}
{"id": "7525975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7525975", "title": "Feminist political ecology", "text": "Feminist political ecology\n\nFeminist political ecology is a feminist perspective on political ecology, drawing on theories from post-structuralism, feminist geography, and cultural ecology. Feminist political ecology examines the place of gender in the political ecological landscape, exploring gender as a factor in ecological and political relations. Specific areas in which feminist political ecology is focused are development, landscape, resource use, agrarian reconstruction and rural-urban transformation (Hovorka 2006: 209). Feminist political ecologists suggest gender is a crucial variable – in relation to class, race and other relevant dimensions of political ecological life – in constituting access to, control over, and knowledge of natural resources.\n\nFeminist political ecology attempts to include gender as a \"key element\" in political ecology analysis (Hovorka 2006: 209). It is informed by several decades of feminist scholarship on the material and cultural links between gender hierarchy (where the masculine is valued more than the feminine) and the domination of the natural world. Ecological feminist scholars working in different disciplines, such as Carolyn Merchant (1980), Val Plumwood (1993; 2002) and Vandana Shiva (1989), laid the foundations for this field by providing empirical evidence and conceptual tools for the systematic analysis of the twin devaluation/domination of nature and the feminine.\n\nThe study of the relationship between environments, gender, and development has grown in importance because of the restructuring of economies, environments and cultures at a global and local level (Mitchell 2000). Women and men are being viewed as actors who affect environmental management, resource use, and the creation of policies for health and well-being. Feminist political ecology does not view gender differences in environmental impact as being biologically-rooted. Rather, they are derived from social constructs of gender, which vary depending on culture, class, race, and geographical location, and they change over time between individuals and societies. A key moment on the development of the approach was the publication of \"Feminist Political Ecology\", edited by Dianne Rocheleau \"et.al.\" at Clark University in 1996. The book showed how usage of environment and labor patterns are gendered, but also how certain environmental problems have particularly negative effects on women (Rocheleau \"et al.\" 1996). These concerns were largely absent in the better-known political ecology volume \"Liberation Ecologies\", which was published in the same year and also developed at Clark (Peet & Watts, 1996).\n\nIn a study on the Rural Federation of Zambrana-Chacuey (a peasant federation) and an international nongovernmental organization (ENDA-Caribe) in the Dominican Republic, Dianne Rocheleau examines social forestry within the region. Women are involved in the forestry industry, but previous research (summary numbers, \"regional maps of forestry-as-usual\" (Rocheleau 1995: 460) had not represented the \"different publics (differentiated by gender, class, locality, and occupation) within the Federation (p460)\". Rocheleau's study draws upon post-structuralism to \"expand our respective partial and situated knowledges through a politics a science that go beyond identity to affinities then work from affinities to coalitions\" (p459).In other words, the study does not assume that the identity of a person defines them, but instead focuses on \"affinities\" (defined as \"based on affiliations, and shared views of interests, subject to change over time\"). The purpose of this was to \"address women within the context in which they had organized and affiliated themselves (p461)\". The purpose of the study was to include women in the general study of the area in a way that gave justice to the \"ecological and social contexts that sustain their lives\" (p461), instead of separating them from the context, rendering them invisible.\n\nIn a Botswana study on urban poultry agriculture, Alice J. Hovorka (2006) examines the implications of fast-paced urbanization on social and ecological relations in a Feminist Political Ecology framework. Men and women are both involved and affected by development issues, so therefore \"gender is an integral part of a key element of agrarian change and rural-urban transformation\" (Hovorka 2006:209). Before urbanization took off, socially constructed gender roles played a huge part in gendered experiences of the landscape. Gender determined the different roles, responsibilities and access to resources. It is important to note that although Botswana women gained the right to vote in 1966, they remain excluded from political power. Gender issues are rarely raised in this country where \"powerful conventions restrict women's domain to the household and women's autonomy under male guardianship\" (p211). With urbanization, land use is becoming more accessible to Botswana women. But studies have revealed that \"women's access to social status and productive resources remains limited compared to men's\" (p213). Traditional gender roles affect women's economic situation, their access to resources and land, their education, and their labor market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19487459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19487459", "title": "Fitness (magazine)", "text": "Fitness (magazine)\n\nFitness is a United States-based women's magazine, focusing on health, exercise, and nutrition. It is owned and published by the Meredith Corporation. The editor-in-chief of \"Fitness\" is Betty Wong.\n\n\"Fitness\" was launched in 1992, and was acquired by the Meredith Corporation from Bertelsmann's Gruner + Jahr in 2005. In 2005, \"Fitness\" also launched its web presence, giving readers separate online resources for fitness and health tips alongside the magazine's monthly editorial content. Betty Wong became Editor-in-Chief in September 2008, incorporating several changes to the magazine, creating several new columns and features. In 2009, \"Fitness\" posted significant ad page gains according to the Publishers Information Bureau, increasing by 18.4% when overall magazine publishers' counts were down 27.9% industry-wide. It was recognized for several awards, having been awarded \"Most Improved Publication\" and best \"How-To/Instructional\" feature in minOnline's Editorial and Design Awards.\n\nOn January 28, 2015, it was reported that Meredith Corp. would acquire \"Shape Magazine\" which would be merged with \"Fitness\" magazine in May 2015. The \"Fitness\" website would continue to operate.\n\n\"Fitness\" editorial content centers largely on exercise, nutrition, health, and beauty. \"Fitness\" also conducts several real-world fitness and health-themed events to promote its brand and raise money for charity, including the Mind, Body, Spirit Games and a half-marathon in conjunction with fellow Meredith publication \"More\" magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "14739775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14739775", "title": "Foucha v. Louisiana", "text": "Foucha v. Louisiana\n\nFoucha v. Louisiana, 504 U.S. 71 (1992), was a U.S. Supreme Court case in which the court addressed the criteria for the continued commitment of an individual who had been found not guilty by reason of insanity. The individual remained involuntarily confined on the justification that he was potentially dangerous even though he no longer suffered from the mental illness that served as a basis for his original commitment.\n\nPetitioner Terry Foucha was charged with aggravated burglary and illegal discharge of a firearm. He burglarized a home after the occupants fled and discharged a firearm in the direction of a law enforcement officer. Initially he was evaluated as incompetent to proceed to trial because he was unable to distinguish right from wrong at the time of the offense. When he later was evaluated as competent, he was tried and found not guilty by reason of insanity. He was committed to East Feliciana State Hospital (LA Maximum Secure) on the grounds that he had a mental illness and was dangerous.\n\nUnder Louisiana law, a criminal defendant found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed to a psychiatric hospital will remain there until the hospital review committee recommends that he be released. If the review committee recommends release, then the trial court must hold a hearing to determine whether he is dangerous to himself or others. If he is found to be dangerous, he may be returned to the hospital whether or not he is currently mentally ill. The committee met and stated that it could not guarantee that Foucha would not be a danger to himself or others.\n\nTherefore, the state court ordered petitioner Foucha to return to the mental institution to which he had been committed, ruling that he was dangerous. The decision was based on a doctor's testimony that, although Foucha had recovered from the drug induced psychosis for which he was committed, he continued to be diagnosed as having an antisocial personality, a condition that is not a mental illness and is not considered treatable. Foucha had been involved in several fights within the facility which doctors felt might indicate he might pose a danger if released. The court stated the burden of proof rested on Foucha to prove that he was not a danger to himself or others.\n\nFoucha petitioned the Court for a writ of certiorari. The State Court of Appeals had denied Foucha's appeal and the Louisiana Supreme Court affirmed, holding, among other things, that per \"Jones v. United States\" (1983) Foucha's release was not required. The latter ruled that the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment was not violated by the statutory provision permitting confinement of an insanity acquittee based on dangerousness alone, although dangerousness alone in the absence of a mental illness would not satisfy the standards for a civil commitment.\n\nThe Court ruled that potential dangerousness was not a justification to retain a person found not guilty by reason of insanity if no mental illness was present. James P. Manasseh argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs was Martin E. Regan, Jr. An acquittee cannot be confined as a mental patient without some medical justification for doing so. Although the individual may be dangerous, the Court ruled that a person committed on the basis of an insanity defense and who has regained his sanity cannot continue to be confined on the sole justification that he remains dangerous. A (formerly) insane acquittee must remain both ill and dangerous to continue to be involuntarily committed. This ruling also applies to convicted persons. \"There is no conceivable basis for distinguishing the commitment of a person who is nearing the end of a penal term from all other commitments.\"\n\nTherefore, the State of Louisiana was not justified in retaining the petitioner unless it could prove that serious public safety concerns existed to justify the acquittee's continuing classification as dangerous.\n\nThe Court clarified that if the justification for commitment after an insanity acquittal no longer applies, the individual is to be released. To maintain that an insanity acquittee remain civilly committed to a psychiatric institution until he is no longer a danger to himself or others is unconstitutional. In this case the basis for commitment was that the defendant was both not responsible due to a mental illness and was dangerous. If he no longer suffers from a mental illness, then there is no justification to detain him. States must maintain the same standard for involuntarily committed insanity acquittees as they do for civilly committed individuals. Commitment must be based on standard principles of civil commitment, including proving that the individual is mentally ill. Commitment cannot be an automatic consequence of the acquittal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38873827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38873827", "title": "Fyodorov Eye Microsurgery Complex", "text": "Fyodorov Eye Microsurgery Complex\n\nThe S.N. Fyodorov Eye Microsurgery Complex is a clinical and research ophthalmological center in Moscow, Russia, founded in 1988 by Russian eye surgeon Svyatoslav Fyodorov. The center also includes regional branches in Cheboksary, Irkutsk, Kaluga, Khabarovsk, Krasnodar, Novosibirsk, Orenburg, Saint Petersburg, Tambov, Volgograd, and Yekaterinburg.\n\nLed by Fyodorov until his death in 2000, the center became famous for the refractive surgery procedures performed in a way aimed to be similar to an assembly line, with patients on operating tables rotated from one doctor to another, each of them responsible only for one part of the procedure.\nIn the same years, Fyodorov converted a seagoing vessel, the \"Peter I\", into an eye clinic, part of the institute, which sailed the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean. Thanks to the international popularity of its founder and director, the Fyodorov Eye Microsurgery Complex obtained the fame of one of the best ophthalmic centers in the world, with eleven branches in regional locations. During the years, it welcomed the best medical doctors and surgeons from different countries wanting to specialize in ophthalmology. At present, the center treats cataract, refractive abnormalities, glaucoma, vitreal, retinal and optic nerve pathology, corneal diseases and deals with daily examinations of 1200 patients.\n"}
{"id": "11691676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11691676", "title": "Gamblers Anonymous", "text": "Gamblers Anonymous\n\nGamblers Anonymous (GA) is a twelve-step program for people who have a gambling problem. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop gambling.\n\nThe organization began in Los Angeles on September 13, 1957. By 2005 there were over 1000 GA groups in the United States, and groups had been established in Mexico, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Spain, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil, Israel, Kenya, Uganda, Korea, Japan and many other locations throughout the world.\n\nProblem gambling is estimated to occur in 1.6% of the adult population in the United States. GA has a list of twenty questions that can be used to self-diagnose compulsive gambling. The results from their instrument have correlated strongly with other tests that screen for compulsive gambling (e.g. the Total Sensation Seeking Scale, Boredom Susceptibility, Experience Seeking, South Oaks Gambling Screen, and Disinhibition subscales).\n\nCompared to problem gamblers who do not attend GA, GA members tend to have more severe gambling problems, are older, have higher incomes, are less likely to be single, have more years of gambling problems, have larger debts, have more serious family conflicts, and less serious substance abuse problems. GA may not be as effective for those who have not had significant gambling problems. GA is effective to prevent \"relapses\" (inability to remain abstinent from gambling), but not as effective when helping members deal with the consequences of their relapse.\n\nGA spends much of its time and energy counseling members on how to deal with financial and legal problems. GA supports \"pressure relief groups\" where members take each other to task and encourage them to \"get honest\" with people in their lives and get their affairs in order. Gamblers who are able to moderate their activity are not likely to continue attending GA meetings. GA members who stopped attending meetings were more likely to consider the sharing at the meetings \"meaningless\" and were more critical of GA literature. Those who felt particularly elated at their first GA meetings were less likely to continue than those who had a more balanced first impression. GA, therefore, may be most suitable for severe problem gamblers who do not have compounding issues.\n\nLess than 8% of those who initially attend GA remain in the program and abstinent from gambling for over a year. Program participation and abstinence increase if members are involved in additional therapy, or if one or more of their family members are involved in Gam-Anon or Gam-A-Teen.\n\nAlthough the likelihood of attending GA is the same for males and females, GA has been characterized as a predominately male fellowship. The number of female members, however, is increasing and there is an increasing sensitivity within GA to women's attitudes. GA's lack of appeal towards females has been attributed to GA's lack of focus on the principles of spirituality in other twelve-step programs, like Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). A causal link, however, has not been shown. GA is often described as more secularized than AA.\n\nAmong problem gamblers, it has been found that women are more focused on interpersonal issues, and that social issues were more likely to cause them to \"relapse.\" Males more frequently discuss \"external concerns\" such as jobs and legal problems, and are more likely to relapse because of substance abuse. Therefore, it does seem plausible that GA's downplaying of spiritual, interpersonal, and psychoemotional issues, inhibits its effectiveness for women.\n\nGamblers Anonymous has several approved books used as standard literature in the group. These are some of the most popular examples:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58614667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58614667", "title": "George Dalton", "text": "George Dalton\n\nGeorge Dalton (born 4 September 1941) is an English former professional footballer who played as a left half or left back in the Football League for Newcastle United and Brighton & Hove Albion.\n\nDalton was born in 1941 in Dilston, Northumberland. He began his football career with Newcastle United as a youngster, and turned professional in 1958. Playing at left half, he made his first-team debut in the League Cup against Colchester United in October 1960 and his first appearance in the First Division the following February. He established himself as a regular in consideration for a first-team placebut not a regular selectionover the next couple of years, until he was a surprise choice at left back for the Second Division visit to Swansea Town in March 1963, had an \"outstanding\" match, and retained the position thereafter. In early 1964, he was touted for selection for the England under-23 side, but was not included. On 30 March, in a match against Leeds United, his 40th appearance of the season, Dalton's leg was badly broken. He played once more for Newcastle's first team, some two-and-a-half years later, but, as the \"Evening Chronicle\" wrote, his \"bright career was tragically dimmed\" when he broke his leg, and he was released on a free transfer in May 1967.\n\nHe signed for Brighton & Hove Albion, established hmself in their first team, and made 28 appearances in 1967–68, of which 24 were in the Third Division, before re-breaking the leg in January 1968. He retired from senior football forthwith, but remained with Brighton, studying physiotherapy and coaching the juniors. When Brighton manager Freddie Goodwin took over at Birmingham City in 1970, Willie Bell and Dalton accompanied him as coach and trainer respectively. The Birmingham club were later fined for making an illegal approach to and then employing Bell without his contracted club's permission, but a similar complaint regarding Dalton was dismissed because he was available on a free transfer. Dalton was at Birmingham until early 1976, when he joined Coventry City as physiotherapist. He remained with that club for two decades in various capacities, and was the physio of the team that won the 1986–87 FA Cup.\n"}
{"id": "21718520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21718520", "title": "H. I. Biegeleisen", "text": "H. I. Biegeleisen\n\nHyman Irving Biegeleisen (June 4, 1904 – May 3, 1991) was an American physician and pioneer of phlebology. In 1964, he founded the Phlebology Society of America (now incorporated into the American College of Phlebology). He was one of the first doctors in the United States to use injection as a method of treating varicose veins, and coined the term \"sclerotherapy\" to describe the treatment.\n\nBeigeleisen graduated from Stuyvesant High School and Columbia University and received a medical degree from Long Island College Hospital.\n"}
{"id": "54686588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54686588", "title": "Hangover food", "text": "Hangover food\n\nHangover food consists of foods and dishes that have been described as having a theoretical potential for easing or alleviating symptoms associated with the hangover. While recommendations and folk cures for foods and drinks to relieve hangover symptoms abound, hangover foods have not been scientifically proven to function as a remedy or cure for the hangover.\n\nVarious folk medicine remedies exist for hangovers. The ancient Romans, on the authority of Pliny the Elder, favored raw owl's eggs or fried canary as a hangover remedy, while the \"prairie oyster\" restorative, introduced at the 1878 Paris World Exposition, calls for raw egg yolk mixed with Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco sauce, salt and pepper. By 1938, the Ritz-Carlton Hotel provided a hangover remedy in the form of a mixture of Coca-Cola and milk (Coca-Cola itself having been invented, by some accounts, as a hangover remedy). Alcoholic writer Ernest Hemingway relied on tomato juice and beer.\n\nOther purported hangover cures include cocktails such as Bloody Mary or Black Velvet (consisting of equal parts champagne and stout). A 1957 survey by an American folklorist found widespread belief in the efficacy of heavy fried foods, tomato juice and sexual activity.\n\nThe following foods and dishes have been described as having a theoretical potential for easing or alleviating symptoms associated with the hangover. Hangover foods have not been scientifically proven to function as a remedy or cure for the hangover.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25846072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25846072", "title": "Health Impact Fund", "text": "Health Impact Fund\n\nThe Health Impact Fund (HIF) is a proposed pay-for-performance mechanism that would provide a market-based solution to problems concerning the development and distribution of medicines globally. It would incentivize the research and development of new pharmaceutical products that make substantial reductions in the global burden of disease. The HIF is the creation of a team of researchers led by the Yale philosopher Thomas Pogge and the University of Calgary economist Aidan Hollis, and is promoted by the non-profit organization Incentives for Global Health (IGH).\n\nIn the current system of development and distribution of medicines, millions of people in poor countries die from diseases because the patented medicines they need are unaffordable or because no medicine exists to cure their ailments. Little pharmaceutical research is concentrated on diseases specific to the poor. This is largely because it has been difficult for pharmaceutical companies to profit from research and development directed at products needed by the poor. The cost of pharmaceutical research and development is high and unlikely to be recovered from those in poor countries who cannot afford the medicines. Therefore, \"the Health Impact Fund would give companies incentives to develop new products targeting the diseases and conditions for which existing systems have failed to produce results, which would especially benefit the poor.\" \n\nThe distribution of pharmaceutical research and development is partly a result of the global patent regime established by the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). Prior to TRIPS, countries were free to not enact intellectual property laws covering medicines, leading to flourishing generic drug industries in countries such as India. Following TRIPS, all World Trade Organization members were required to institute strict, American-style intellectual property rights. As a result, the supply of generic medicines to poor countries has been sharply diminished. According to Nobel Laureate Joseph Stiglitz, the pharmaceutical patent system needs an \"alternative\" that would \"give large rewards for cures or vaccines for diseases like malaria that affect millions.\"\n\nThe HIF is intended to address the problems with an uncomplemented pharmaceutical patent system. The HIF uses market forces to create incentives to develop medicines for typically neglected diseases and to distribute these medicines at low prices all over the world. Pharmaceutical patent-holders would receive financial rewards by opting to register their new medicines, or new uses of existing medicines, with the Fund. By registering, a patent-holder agrees to distribute its medicine globally at cost and to cooperate in measuring the health impact of that medicine. In return, the firm receives an annual reward based on its measurable contribution to reducing the global burden of disease.\n\nRegistrants of new drugs are eligible for reward payments for ten years starting at the date of marketing approval of their product. New uses receive rewards for five years. Following the reward period, registrants agree to allow generic manufacturing of their medicines, in order to prevent price spikes. Registrants retain their rights to control follow-on innovation.\n\nWhen assessing the health impact of a registered product, “the HIF would essentially estimate the difference between (1) the actual health status of people who consumed the registered product and (2) the estimated health status of those people, had they not had access to the registered product.”\n\nThe standard measure of health impact is the Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY). For example, if all registered products were in conjunction estimated to have saved 10 million QALYs, then a registered product that saved 1 million of those QALYS would receive ten percent of the available reward funds for that year. The health impact assessment of a registered product would be conducted for each year of its registration with the HIF, and payments would be disbursed annually.\n\nThe HIF is to be financed by governments. Ideally, countries will commit a fixed amount of their gross national income (GNI) to the HIF (0.03 percent of a country’s GNI is the suggested minimum).\n\nAs performance measurement is a core component of the HIF, it needs to be robust across different products and in diverse settings. Working with leading health care assessment organizations such as The George Institute for International Health, NICE International, and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, IGH will perform evaluations of the health impact of different products in a variety of countries. The HIF would expand assessment beyond pre-approval clinical trials, using epidemiological data from actual usage, practical trials, physician surveys, and patient demographics, as modifiers to the core health impact assessment. IGH aims to pilot the proposed HIF mechanism by rewarding a pharmaceutical manufacturer on the basis of measured health impact in a region. This will allow the pay-for-performance approach to be field-tested and refined before it is implemented on a wider scale.\n\nOutcomes and Benefits of the Pilot:\n(1.) Create a comprehensive metric to evaluate the health impact of medicines based on the actual reductions in mortality and morbidity each achieves.\n(2.) Determine how to apply this metric reliably through a field-test that focuses on a new drug’s introduction into a specific area. No attempt has ever been made to measure the health impact of a newly introduced medicine.\n(3.) Benefit people in the field-test area by giving them access to an important new product at an affordable price and by rewarding the innovator promoting its wide and effective use by those who can benefit from it.\n\nIGH is currently exploring opportunities for potential pilots.\n\nThe HIF can be seen as a kind of comprehensive Advanced Market Commitment, since it essentially is a way of incentivizing new research while ensuring access at low prices. However, compared to the Advanced Market Commitment, it is comprehensive because it could apply to any drug or vaccine, and it would operate in all countries. Alternatively, one can put it in the context of prizes, since it has prize-like characteristics in terms of incentivizing research while not enabling high prices. A third way of viewing it is as a supplementary global drug insurance system, in which the copayment made by consumers is equal to the cost of production.\n\nThe HIF staff has prepared a memo setting out their view of the intellectual history of the HIF.\n\nWhen the HIF was proposed in 2008, it attracted criticism from Professor Brook Baker and Knowledge Ecology International for not requiring open licensing of registered drugs. Instead, it allowed drug manufacturers to maintain a monopoly, subject to regulated prices. The proponents modified the proposal in response, suggesting greater flexibility about this aspect of the HIF, but this remains a controversial feature of the proposal, when compared to other prize fund proposals that feature open licensing of patents to generic manufacturers.\n\nBrita Pekarsky (2010) has argued that the cost of the HIF may be too high, if it is taking money away from other valuable development aid or health related activities.\n\nPaul Grootendorst (2009) states that the primary drawback of the HIF is the difficulty of measuring health impact accurately. He notes particularly the problems of trying to attribute health impact to drugs that have long latency periods in their effectiveness (such as vaccines and anti-hypertensives); the problems of consistency across different therapeutic areas; and the technical difficulty of disentangling the effect of the drug from confounding factors.\n\nJorn Sonderholm (2009) argues that there is a lack of evidence that patents create a barrier to access, so that the HIF may fail to address a real problem.\n\nSakiko Fukuda-Parr and Proochista Ariana (2011) criticized the HIF on a variety of grounds, including its approach to the distribution of benefits and costs, the impact on generic competition and the role of the HIF in strategic negotiations on intellectual property rights, leading to a response from IGH.\n\nAfschin Gandjour and Nadja Chernyak state that the HIF does not have a rational basis for the underlying willingness to pay per health gain and, instead, uses an arbitrary figure such as 0.03% of the GNI. Furthermore, the HIF assumes an arbitrary duration of reward (e.g., 10 years) and does not adjust health gains for equity concerns and uncertainty.\n\nThe Health Impact Fund is supported by a distinguished Advisory Board.\n\n\nIn June 2010, the Social Democratic Party of Germany officially endorsed the HIF and called on the German government to actively support a HIF pilot.\n\nThe World Health Organization Expert Working Group on Research and Development Financing (related to Public health, innovation and intellectual property) described the HIF as one of a few \"promising\" proposals deserving further examination. A new WHO Consultative Expert Working Group (CEWG) has noted that the HIF proposal would benefit from a pilot to demonstrate feasibility.\n\nCarl Nathan (2009) suggests that the HIF could help to overcome obstacles to the control of tuberculosis such as development and distribution of vaccines and medicines to the poor.\n\nJohn J. DeGioia, President of Georgetown University, has complimented the HIF for bringing moral imperatives and pragmatic market principles together. He states, \"that this is the beauty of the Health Impact Fund . . . it translates idealism into innovation.\"\n\nChristian Barry and Matt Peterson favour the HIF as a mechanism for providing innovators with incentives to develop new medicines that have significant health impacts rather than significant sales impacts.\n\nJames Orbinski states that the HIF is an innovative policy proposal that \"should be implemented.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32175879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32175879", "title": "Health Information and Quality Authority", "text": "Health Information and Quality Authority\n\nThe Health Information and Quality Authority (HIQA) (Irish: \"An t-Údarás um Fhaisnéis agus Cáilíocht Sláinte\" ) is a statutory, government-funded agency in Ireland which monitors the safety and quality of the healthcare and social care systems. Mooted as early as 2001, HIQA received its powers and mandate in May 2007 under the Health Act 2007. The Authority also exercises functions under the Child Care Act 1991, and the Children Act 2001.\n\nThe Authority has produced a number of reports and recommendations on the safety of care in both public and private hospitals, including Mallow General Hospital, Mid-Western Regional Hospital, Ennis, and Barringtons Hospital. HIQA is also tasked with inspecting hygiene standards in public hospitals with the exception of Connolly Hospital, Blanchardstown.\n\nAs well as performing hospital evaluations, HIQA is charged with implementing electronic health records and information governance, investigating waiting times, and protecting whistleblowers.\n\nAfter the Leas Cross scandal, there was increased demand for inspection of both private and public nursing homes. As a result, HIQA was given powers to register, inspect and, via application to court, close nursing homes and similar residential services delivering sub-standard care.\n\nHIQA has issued reports on foster care services, describing a lack of assessment of carers and criticising the \"significant failure\" by the Health Service Executive to monitor children in care. In particular, HIQA raised concerns over the Dublin and North East areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "16637675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16637675", "title": "Human feces", "text": "Human feces\n\nHuman feces (or faeces in British English; ) are the solid or semisolid remains of the food that could not be digested or absorbed in the small intestine of humans, but has been rotted down by bacteria in the large intestine. It also contains bacteria and a relatively small amount of metabolic waste products such as bacterially altered bilirubin, and the dead epithelial cells from the lining of the gut. It is discharged through the anus during a process called defecation. Human feces have similarities to feces of other animals and vary significantly in appearance (i.e. size, color, texture), according to the state of the diet, digestive system and general health. Normally human feces are semisolid, with a mucus coating. Small pieces of harder, less moist feces can sometimes be seen impacted in the distal (final or lower) end. This is a normal occurrence when a prior bowel movement is incomplete, and feces are returned from the rectum to the large intestine, where water is absorbed.\n\nIn the medical literature, the term \"stool\" is more commonly used than \"feces\".\n\nHuman feces together with human urine are collectively referred to as human waste or human excreta. Containing human feces, and preventing spreading of pathogens from human feces via the fecal–oral route, are the main goals of sanitation.\n\nThe Bristol stool scale is a medical aid designed to classify the form of human feces into seven categories. Sometimes referred to in the UK as the Meyers Scale, it was developed by K. W. Heaton at the University of Bristol and was first published in the \"Scandinavian Journal of Gastroenterology\" in 1997. The form of the stool depends on the time it spends in the colon.\n\nThe seven types of stool are:\nTypes 1 and 2 indicate constipation. Types 3 and 4 are optimal, especially the latter, as these are the easiest to pass. Types 5–7 are associated with increasing tendency to diarrhea or urgency.\n\nMeconium is a newborn baby's first feces.\n\nHuman fecal matter varies significantly in appearance, depending on diet and health.\n\nFeces possess physiological odor, which can vary according to diet and health status. For example, meat protein contains a lot of the sulfur-containing amino acid methionine, which is a precursor of the sulfur-containing odorous compounds listed below. The odor of human feces is suggested to be made up from the following odorant volatiles:\n(HS) is the most common volatile sulfur compound in feces. The odor of feces may be increased when various pathologies are present, including: \nAttempts to reduce the odor of feces (and flatus) are largely based on animal research carried out with industrial applications, such as reduced environmental impact of pig farming. See also: Flatulence#Management, odor. Many dietary modifications/supplements have been researched, including:\n\nOn average humans eliminate 128 g of fresh feces per person per day with a pH value of around 6.6. Fresh feces contains around 75% water and the remaining solid fraction is 84–93% organic solids.\n\nThese organic solids consist of: 25–54% bacterial biomass, 2–25% protein or nitrogenous matter, 25% carbohydrate or undigested plant matter and 2–15% fat. Protein and fat come from the colon due to secretion, epithelial shedding and gut bacterial action. These proportions vary considerably depending on many factors such as mainly diet and body weight.\n\nThe remaining solids are composed of calcium and iron phosphates, intestinal secretions, small amounts of dried epithelial cells, and mucus.\n\nThe Fecal pH test for healthy humans is a pH of 6.6.\n\nSometimes food may make an appearance in the feces. Common undigested foods found in human feces are seeds, nuts, corn, and beans, mainly because of their high dietary fiber content. Beets may turn feces different hues of red. Artificial food coloring in some processed foods, such as highly colorful packaged breakfast cereals, can cause unusual coloring of feces if eaten in sufficient quantities.\n\nUndigested objects such as seeds can pass through the human digestive system, and later germinate. One result of this is tomato plants growing where treated sewage sludge has been used as fertilizer.\n\nClinical laboratory examination of feces, usually termed as stool examination or stool test, is conducted for the sake of diagnosis; for example, to detect the presence of parasites such as pinworms and their eggs (ova) or to detect disease-spreading bacteria. A stool culture—the controlled growth of microbial organisms in culture media under laboratory conditions—sometimes is performed to identify specific pathogens in stool. The stool guaiac test (or guaiac fecal occult blood test) is conducted to detect the presence of blood in stool that is not apparent to the unaided eye.\n\nThe main pathogens that are commonly looked for in feces include:\n\n\nIntestinal parasites and their ova (eggs) can sometimes be visible to the naked eye.\n\nThe feces can be analyzed for various markers that are indicative of various diseases and conditions. For example, fecal calprotectin levels indicate an inflammatory process such as Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and neoplasms (cancer).\n\nAlso, feces may be analyzed for any fecal occult blood, which is indicative of a gastrointestinal bleeding.\n\nA quick test for fecal contamination of water sources or soil is a check for the presence of \"E. coli\" bacteria performed with the help of MacConkey agar plates or Petri dishes. \"E. coli\" bacteria uniquely develop red colonies at temperature of approximately overnight. Although most strains of \"E. coli\" are harmless, their presence is indicative of fecal contamination, and hence an increased possibility of the presence of more dangerous organisms.\n\nFecal contamination of water sources is highly prevalent worldwide, accounting for the majority of unsafe drinking water. In developing countries most sewage is discharged without treatment. Even in developed countries events of sanitary sewer overflow are not uncommon and regularly pollute the Seine River (France) and the River Thames (England), for example.\n\nDiarrhea (or diarrhoea in British English) is the condition of having three or more loose or liquid bowel movements per day. This condition can be a symptom of injury, disease or foodborne illness and is usually accompanied by abdominal pain. There are other conditions which involve some but not all of the symptoms of diarrhea, and so the formal medical definition of diarrhea involves defecation of more than 200 grams per day (though formal weighing of stools to determine a diagnosis is never actually carried out).\n\nIt occurs when insufficient fluid is absorbed by the colon. As part of the digestion process, or due to fluid intake, food is mixed with large amounts of water. Thus, digested food is essentially liquid prior to reaching the colon. The colon absorbs water, leaving the remaining material as a semisolid stool. If the colon is damaged or inflamed, however, absorption is inhibited, and watery stools result.\n\nDiarrhea is most commonly caused by a myriad of viral infections but is also often the result of bacterial toxins and sometimes even infection. In sanitary living conditions and with ample food and water available, an otherwise healthy patient typically recovers from the common viral infections in a few days and at most a week. However, for ill or malnourished individuals diarrhea can lead to severe dehydration and can become life-threatening without treatment.\n\nConstipation refers to bowel movements that are infrequent or hard to pass. Constipation is a common cause of painful defecation. Severe constipation includes obstipation (failure to pass stools or gas) and fecal impaction, which can progress to bowel obstruction and become life-threatening.\n\nBile overload is very rare, and not a health threat. Problems as simple as serious diarrhea may cause blood in one's stool. Black stools caused by the presence of blood usually indicate a problem in the intestines (the black color is a sign of digested blood), whereas red streaks of blood in stool usually are caused by bleeding in the rectum or anus.\n\nHuman feces have historically been used as fertilizer for centuries in the form of night soil, fecal sludge, and sewage sludge. The use of untreated human feces in agriculture poses significant health risks and has contributed to widespread infection with parasitic worms—a disease called helminthiasis, affecting over 1.5 billion people in developing countries. \n\nThere are methods available to safely reuse human feces in agriculture as per the \"multiple barrier concept\" described by the World Health Organization in 2006. The approach to \"close the loop\" between human excreta (sanitation) and agriculture is also called ecological sanitation. It may involve certain types of dry toilets such as urine-diversion dry toilets or composting toilets.\n\nIn humans, fecal transplants (or stool transplant) is the process of transplantation of fecal bacteria from a healthy individual into a recipient who is suffering from a certain disease, such as irritable bowel syndrome. The resulting inoculation of healthy gut flora can sometimes improve the physiology of the recipient gut.\n\nFecal bacteriotherapy—also known as a fecal transplant—is a medical procedure wherein fecal bacteria are transplanted from a healthy individual into a patient. Recent research indicates that this may be a valuable method to re-establish normal gut cultures that have been destroyed through the use of antibiotics or some other medical treatments.\n\nThe biogas produced from feces when it is contained in sewage and treated in an anaerobic digestion process could be worth as much as 9.5 billion dollars.\n\nWashington DC plans to produce biogas from sewage sludge, the by-product of sewage treatment, which will save 13 million dollars a year.\n\nPaleofeces, also known as coprolites, are ancient human feces, often found as part of archaeological excavations or surveys. Intact feces of ancient people may be found in caves in arid climates and in other locations with suitable preservation conditions. These are studied to determine the diet and health of the people who produced them through the analysis of seeds, small bones, and parasite eggs found inside. They also may be analyzed chemically for more in-depth information on the individual who excreted them, using lipid analysis and DNA analysis. The success rate of usable DNA extraction is relatively high in paleofeces, making it more reliable than skeletal DNA retrieval.\n\nIn all human cultures, feces elicit varying degrees of disgust. Disgust is experienced primarily in relation to the sense of taste (either perceived or imagined) and, secondarily to anything that causes a similar feeling by sense of smell, touch, or vision. As such, human feces is regarded as something to be avoided diligently: expelled in private and disposed of immediately and without a trace. It often is considered an unacceptable topic in polite conversation and its mere mention may cause offence in certain contexts.\n\nAn example of repulsion by feces from the ancient world is found in the writings called Deuteronomy used by Jews and Christians:Designate a place outside the camp where you can go to relieve yourself. As part of your equipment have something to dig with, and when you relieve yourself, dig a hole and cover up your excrement. For the LORD your God moves about in your camp to protect you and to deliver your enemies to you. Your camp must be holy, so that he will not see among you anything indecent and turn away from you.\n\nPeople from different cultures employ a variety of personal cleansing practices after defecation. The anus and buttocks may be either washed with liquids or wiped with toilet paper or other solid materials. In many Muslim, Hindu and Sikh cultures, as well as Southeast Asia and Southern Europe, water is usually used for anal cleansing using a jet, as with a bidet, or most commonly, splashed and washed with the hand. In other cultures (such as many Western countries), cleaning after defecation is generally done with toilet paper only.\n\nThere are many synonyms in informal registers for human feces. Many are euphemismistic, colloquial, or both; some are profane (such as \"shit\"), whereas most belong chiefly to child-directed speech (such as \"poo\" or \"poop\") or to crude humor (such as \"turd\").\n\nHuman feces together with human urine are collectively referred to as human waste or human excreta. \n\n"}
{"id": "25288890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25288890", "title": "Isometric exercise device", "text": "Isometric exercise device\n\nAn isometric exercise tool is a device used to exercise most body parts including the wrist and is often used as part of physical therapy or in order to build muscle strength in a low impact manner. Devices can range in size from large bulky machines used by physicians to small hand-held devices that can be used by an individual. Isometric devices have been used for centuries. The first devices did not display the users' output; nowadays there are devices that can digitally output the users force. Before that some devices used an analog format.\n\nIsometric exercise tools perform exercises or strength test using static contraction of a muscle without any visible movement in the angle of the joint. This is reflected in the name; the term \"isometric\" combines the prefix \"iso\" (same) with \"metric\" (distance), meaning that in these exercises the length of the muscle does not change, as compared to \"isotonic contractions\" (\"tonos\" means \"tension\" in Greek) in which the contraction strength does not change but the joint angle does. New isometric exercise tools often used force gauges and a micro processor and then output the force onto an LCD screen or store the information later to be downloaded onto a computer.\n\nIsometric exercises can also be used at the bedside to differentiate various heart murmurs; the murmur of mitral regurgitation gets louder as compared to the quieter murmur of aortic stenosis.\n\nIsometric exercises have some differences in training effect as compared to dynamic exercises. While isometric training increases strength at the specific joint angles of the exercises performed and additional joint angles to a lesser extent, dynamic exercises increase strength throughout the full range of motion. Generally speaking however, people who train isometrically don't train through a full range of motion as the strength gained at the training joint angle is where they require it. While dynamic exercises are slightly better than isometric exercises at enhancing the twitch force of a muscle, isometrics are significantly better than dynamic exercises at increasing maximal strength at the joint angle.\nFlexibility may be increased when isometrics are performed at joint range of motion extremes. These isometric contractions recruit muscle fibers that are often neglected in some dynamic exercises. For example, gymnasts are extremely strong at great ranges of motion through the practice of isometric holds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4504617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4504617", "title": "James Makittrick Adair", "text": "James Makittrick Adair\n\nJames Makittrick Adair M.D. (1728–1802), a native of Inverness, and youngest son of James Makittrick, held several occupations but is best remembered for his medical ethics and treatment of slaves and the poor. He was educated at the grammar school and University of Edinburgh. Early in life he was an officer in the army. Having wasted his own fortune and that of his wife, a descendant of the Adair family, he became an officer in the revenue department at Edinburgh and was later appointed surgeon's mate of the \"Porcupine\" sloop of war, bound to the Leeward Islands.\n\nShortly thereafter, he returned to England and soon decided to proceed to Antigua, where he became assistant to a relative, and began to study the medical profession. He also undertook the management of an estate on Antigua, becoming familiar with the condition of the slaves. Although he was anxious for the improvement of the conditions of the slaves, he was opposed to emancipation. He published a tract in 1789 on the subject of the abolition of slavery, in which he tried to depict the real state of slavery in the West Indies, the probable consequences of the abolition of the slave trade; to point out some grievances of the slave, the means by which they might be relieved, and, he added, the necessary regulations of the hospital for the management of the sick. He held that humanity to slaves and religious instruction were the only securities upon which the West India planter could safely rely. His own conduct towards slaves was very kind. He protected and nurtured them as his own children, and they were friendly in return.\n\nIn a few years he left the West Indies, took a voyage to America, and made the acquaintance of Benjamin Franklin. After a tour in the United States, he returned to Edinburgh, took his degree of M.D., and then settled as a physician at Andover, in Hampshire.\n\nAfter the war with America had commenced, he returned to the West Indies on short notice, at the request of a friend. Upon his arrival he was appointed physician to Monk's Hill and to the commander-in-chief of the troops, and also as one of the assistant judges of the Courts of King's Bench and Common Pleas. At this time he adopted the name of Adair, having become the next male heir to the estate of his mother's family.\n\nIn 1783 he left the West Indies, returned to England, and settled at Bath, where he became in volved in many disputes with his professional colleagues and others. These arose partly from his determined opposition to quacks and quackery—his attempts to expose and suppress quackery may be seen as quixotic, but they were no less laudable. His temper was, however, altogether unfit for the warfare which he brought about. He was naturally querulous, hot, and irascible, and his disposition had been soured by disappointments in domestic life. He was, however, a man of an affectionate nature, and endowed with lively sensibility. He was generous to the poor, and the profits of the work he published were all given to support the Bath hospital. His professional acquirements were of no mean description, and he appears to have been a close and rational observer.\n\nHe became hypochondriacal, and died at Harrogate in 1802.\n\nHe published the following works.\n\n"}
{"id": "28067732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28067732", "title": "Journal of Biomedical Informatics", "text": "Journal of Biomedical Informatics\n\nThe Journal of Biomedical Informatics is a peer-reviewed scientific journal that covers research in health informatics or in translational bioinformatics. Articles are freely available 12 months after publication. Authors can pay extra for immediate open access at the time of publication. The journal was established by Homer R. Warner in 1967 under the name Computers and Biomedical Research and was renamed beginning with Volume 34 in 2001, when it was redesigned under the leadership of the current editor-in-chief, Edward H. Shortliffe.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2012 impact factor of 2.131. In addition, the journal is indexed in Biological Abstracts, BIOSIS Previews, CSA Life Sciences Abstracts, Current Contents/Clinical Medicine, EMBASE, Compendex, Inspec, MEDLINE, PASCAL, PubMed, Science Citation Index, and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "32279743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32279743", "title": "Journal of Pakistan Medical Association", "text": "Journal of Pakistan Medical Association\n\nThe Journal of Pakistan Medical Association is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal published by the Pakistan Medical Association. It publishes editorials, original articles, case reports, and letters concerning medicine and health practices. The editor-in-chief is Fatema Jawad.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Index Medicus/MEDLINE/PubMed, BIOSIS Previews, and the Science Citation Index Expanded. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2012 impact factor of 0.409.\n"}
{"id": "18100008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18100008", "title": "List of optometric abbreviations", "text": "List of optometric abbreviations\n\nCertain abbreviations are current within the profession of optometry. They are used to denote clinical conditions, examination techniques and findings, and various forms of treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "8774262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8774262", "title": "Marina Karaseva", "text": "Marina Karaseva\n\nMarina Valeryevna Karaseva (, born August 8, 1958, Moscow) is a Russian musicologist, Honoured Art Worker of the Russian Federation, Professor of Moscow Conservatory, Department of Music Theory, Grand Doctor in Art, Ph.D. in Musicology, Member of Russian Composers Union, Fulbright Scholar, Advisor to the Rector (since 2010).\n\nKaraseva is the author of a new approach to the modern ear training system. In the 1980s she created a complex methodological system of ear training using 20th century music. She has disclosed basic intonational patterns of modern post major-minor music (its melodics, new modal scales, chord system, rhythm, etc.) and has developed systematic ways for their study in ear-training courses - from music-school to conservatory level.\n\nKaraseva's course combines the best features of the traditional Russian ear-training system with a new investigation into the area of modern harmony (particularly, her scientific teacher, Dr. Yuri Kholopov researches) as well as with a new psychological approach based on synesthetic listening training. This combination makes Karaseva's course an original one, unique in the world of contemporary music education.\n\nThe ear training system created by Karaseva allows students dealing with intonationally and rhythmically complicated music patterns of contemporary music to be able to clearly select by ear (not only by theoretical analysis) interrelationships between new modes, non-third chords, and new functional tonal system. This method improves sight-singing and listening of 20th century music.\n\nKaraseva's course, \"Modern solfeggio\" in 3 Volumes (1st vol - music pattern selection and instructive exercises, 2nd - 20th century music examples, 3d Harmonical Solfeggio), was published in 1996. It is considered one of the most effective practical courses in ear training, and, worldwide, it is the first of its kind.\n\"Modern Solfeggio\" has been approved for use throughout the Russian music educational system (colleges and conservatories) for more than 20 years. It has also been used abroad during Karaseva's seminars, master classes and conference papers in the US, Europe and Japan.\n\nIn 1999, Karaseva took up a Senior Fulbright Scholarship in the United States. Her Fulbright Program research project was entitled \"Music Psychotechnology as a New Approach at the Cross-Roads of Sciences: Cognitive Musicology and Practical Psychology\" (School of Music, University of Maryland, College Park, 1999-2000).\n\nIn the same year, she wrote a monograph, \"Solfeggio - a Psychotechnique of Ear training\" (371 pp.) where she explaines the core of her methodology. This book became the first complex scientific investigation in the field of practical music cognition. Karaseva obtained a degree of Grand Doctor in Art (the highest academic degree in Russia) for this book in October 2000. A second edition was published in 2002. Her books and courses on Modern Solfeggio can be found in many libraries in the USA, Europe, and Japan.\n\nIn 2005 she created a new course in music timbre dictations, which is published with a CD containing various natural and synthetic instrumental and vocal timbres.\n\nThe second area of Karaseva's innovative activities is the creation of interdisciplinary academic courses new to the Russian musical and academic system (in Russia music education is not part of the general university system). She has devised, and now delivers, an academic course on Social Psychology of Music for Moscow State University (Adjunct Professor of the MSU Department of Psychology, from 2001) and a course on \"Music Sociology\" at the Higher School of Economics (HSE) (Adjunct Professor of the Department of Sociology from 2006).\n\nKaraseva's latest research is in the field of language learning. She is investigating the application of musical notation for the improvement of intonation in foreign-language study. She has written a course in the musical decoding of the intonation of Japanese and English speech. In 2006 her innovative interdisciplinary approach was approved at the Congress for Japanese Language Study in The Institute for Asian and African Studies affiliated with Moscow State University and at the International Congress of Asia TEFL Society in Fukuoka, Japan (her paper contribution was awarded by special TEFL grant).\n\nKaraseva undertook her basic professional music education at the Moscow Conservatory College (1973-1977), the Moscow Conservatory, Department of Music Theory and Composition (1977-1982) and then completed Postdoctoral-Fellowship study at the Moscow Conservatory (1982-1988).\n\nThe main subject of her undergraduate and doctoral research were contemporary systems of ear training around the world. This research was undertaken under the supervision of Yuri Kholopov. She completed an M.A. on: \"Toward the Problem of Ear training and Sight Singing of the XX Century Music. The Systematization of Solfeggio Methods\" (1982). Her Ph.D. thesis researched \"The Theoretical Problems of the Modern Ear training\" (1989).\nIn 1982 Karaseva became a teacher at the Central Music School of Moscow Conservatory (1982-1996, Music Theory, Harmony and Ear training) and a professor at the Moscow Conservatory (Department of Music Theory, from 1982 to present time, from 2002 - Full Professor position).\n\nIn 2004 she began studying Japanese and investigating methodological investigations on the problem of Japanese intonation and its music notation (at The Japan Embassy Cultural Center in Moscow). In 2005 and 2006 she obtained the JLPT Certificate (4th and 3rd level) from the Japan Foundation.\n\nDr. Karaseva actively participates in international musicological and interdisciplinary conferences in Russia, Europe, America, and Japan. She is the author of more than 50 books, manuals and metholological papers on music (music theory, ear training) and language education, music psychology and cultural policy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25159242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25159242", "title": "Maxillary hypoplasia", "text": "Maxillary hypoplasia\n\nMaxillary hypoplasia is an underdevelopment of the maxillary bones, which produces midfacial retrusion and creates the illusion of protuberance (jutting forward) of the lower jaw. It is associated with Crouzon syndrome, Angelman syndrome, as well as fetal alcohol syndrome. It can also be associated with Cleft lip and cleft palate. Some people could develop it due to poor dental extractions.\n\nThe underdevelopment of the bones in the upper jaw, which gives the middle of the face a sunken look and makes the lower jaw seem like it is sticking out, even if anatomically it is normal. This makes it difficult to eat and can cause future problems for the patient, such as, Nasopharyngeal airway restriction, which can then lead to back pain, neck pain, and numbness in the hands and arms, due to constant forward head posture. This restriction can also lead to Sleep apnea and snoring. Sleep apnea can lead to heart problems, endocrine problems, increased weight, cognition problems, etc.\n\nCorrective surgery is the most common treatment to correct this disorder. It involves the repositioning of the upper jaw to align with the lower jaw, to provide symmetry. It is best performed during childhood, if possible, to allow the jaw to recover and develop. The surgery may be performed in consultation with an Orthodontist who works on repositioning the teeth in the mouth.\n\nThe recovery time after the surgery depends on the extent of the surgery itself. Patients are usually advised to eat soft foods for days, or sometimes weeks, to allow their jaw time to heal. They also require regular checkups with the doctor to monitor bone displacement, signs of infection, or other issues.\n"}
{"id": "949670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949670", "title": "Miosis", "text": "Miosis\n\nMiosis is excessive constriction of the pupil. The term is from Ancient Greek μύειν, \"mūein\", \"to close the eyes\".\n\nThe opposite condition, mydriasis, is the dilation of the pupil. Anisocoria is the condition of one pupil being more dilated than the other.\n\n\n\n\nLight entering the eye strikes three different photoreceptors in the retina: the familiar rods and cones used in image forming and the more newly discovered photosensitive ganglion cells. The ganglion cells give information about ambient light levels, and react sluggishly compared to the rods and cones. Signals from photosensitive ganglion cells have multiple functions including acute suppression of the hormone melatonin, entrainment of the body's circadian rhythms and regulation of the size of the pupil.\n\nThe retinal photoceptors convert light stimuli into electric impulses. Nerves involved in the resizing of the pupil connect to the pretectal nucleus of the high midbrain, bypassing the lateral geniculate nucleus and the primary visual cortex. From the pretectal nucleus neurons send axons to neurons of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus whose visceromotor axons run along both the left and right oculomotor nerves. Visceromotor nerve axons (which constitute a portion of cranial nerve III, along with the somatomotor portion derived from the Edinger-Westphal nucleus) synapse on ciliary ganglion neurons, whose parasympathetic axons innervate the iris sphincter muscle, producing miosis. This occurs because sympathetic activity from the ciliary ganglion is \"lost\" thus parasympathetics are not inhibited.\nImage\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14019863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14019863", "title": "Multiple of the median", "text": "Multiple of the median\n\nA multiple of the median (MoM) is a measure of how far an individual test result deviates from the median. MoM is commonly used to report the results of medical screening tests, particularly where the results of the individual tests are highly variable.\n\nMoM was originally used as a method to normalize data from participating laboratories of Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) so that individual test results could be compared. 35 years later, it is the established standard for reporting maternal serum screening results.\n\nAn MoM for a test result for a patient can be determined by the following:\n\nAs an example, Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) testing is used to screen for a neural tube defect (NTD) during the second trimester of pregnancy. If the median AFP result at 16 weeks of gestation is 30 ng/mL and a pregnant woman's AFP result at that same gestational age is 60 ng/mL, then her MoM is equal to 60/30 = 2.0. In other words, her AFP result is 2 times higher than \"normal.\"\n"}
{"id": "2079522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2079522", "title": "Nabiximols", "text": "Nabiximols\n\nNabiximols (USAN, trade name Sativex) is a specific extract of \"Cannabis\" that was approved as a botanical drug in the United Kingdom in 2010 as a mouth spray to alleviate neuropathic pain, spasticity, overactive bladder, and other symptoms of multiple sclerosis; it was developed by the UK company GW Pharmaceuticals. The drug is a pharmaceutical product standardised in composition, formulation, and dose. Its principal active cannabinoid components are the cannabinoids: tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). Each spray delivers a dose of 2.7 mg THC and 2.5 mg CBD.\n\nIn May 2003 GW Pharmaceuticals and Bayer entered into an exclusive marketing agreement for GW's cannabis-based medicinal extract product, to be marketed under the brand name Sativex. \"Bayer has obtained exclusive rights to market Sativex in the UK. In addition, Bayer has the option for a limited period to negotiate the marketing rights in other countries in European Union and selected other countries around the world.\"\n\nIn April 2011, GW licensed to Novartis the rights to commercialise nabiximols in Asia (excluding China and Japan), Africa and the Middle East (excluding Israel).\n\nIn June 2010, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency of the United Kingdom licensed nabiximols as a prescription-only medicine for the treatment of spasticity due to multiple sclerosis. This regulatory authorization represents the world's first full regulatory approval for the medicine. The spray is being marketed in the UK by Bayer Schering Pharma. Many people with MS cannot receive nabiximols due to local National Health Service (NHS) resistance to its funding; but, in August 2014, the NHS in Wales agreed to fund Sativex for people with multiple sclerosis.\n\nNabiximols was also approved in Spain for MS spasticity in the second half of 2010 and was launched in that country in March 2011. It was approved in the Czech Republic in April 2011, in Germany in May 2011, in Denmark in June 2011 and in Sweden in January 2012 to people with MS who have not responded adequately to other medication for spasticity. It has also been recommended for approval in Italy and Austria with formal approvals expected in these countries during 2011. In Spain and other European markets (excluding the UK), nabiximols will be marketed by Almirall.\n\nIn Canada, nabiximols has been approved by Health Canada for the treatment of MS spasticity. It has also received a licence with conditions (NOC/c) for two additional uses: as adjunctive treatment for the symptomatic relief of neuropathic pain in multiple sclerosis, and also for pain due to cancer.\n\nNabiximols is available in a number of countries as an unlicensed medicine, which enables doctors to prescribe the product to people who they consider may benefit. The product has been exported from the UK to a total of 28 countries to date.\n\nIn February 2007, GW and Otsuka Pharmaceutical announced an exclusive agreement for Otsuka to develop and market the drug in the United States. The first large scale US Phase IIb trial, Spray Trial, for people with cancer reported positive results in March 2010. GW and Otsuka have now commenced the Phase III development of nabiximols in cancer pain.\n\nIn December 2012, Sativex was approved in Poland.\n\nIn 2013, France legalized the use of cannabinoids in medicine, Sativex is the first one to be sold under prescription. Nevertheless, at least until June 2016, this drug was never actually sold in pharmacies there.\n\nOf the two preliminary Phase III studies investigating the treatment of people with MS, one showed a reduction of spasticity of 1.2 points on the 0–10 points rating scale (versus 0.6 points under placebo), the other showed a reduction of 1.0 versus 0.8 points. Only the first study reached statistical significance. The Phase III approval study consisted of a run-in phase where the response of individuals to the drug was determined. The responders (42% of subjects) showed a significant effect in the second, placebo controlled, phase of the trial. A 2009 meta-analysis of six studies found large variations of effectiveness, with a – statistically non-significant – trend towards a reduction of spasticity. A systematic review in 2014 by the American Academy of Neurology found that nabiximols was 'probably effective' for spasticity, pain, and urinary dysfunction, but wasn't supported for tremor.\n\nNabiximols has also been studied for cancer pain resistant to opioids. Adjuvant use was safe and effective in 3 trials for cancer pain, however the drug failed to meet its primary endpoint for this purpose in its first Phase III trial.\n\nIn early clinical trials, nabiximols has generally been well tolerated. The most common adverse effects in Phase III trials were dizziness (25%), drowsiness (8%) and disorientation (4%); 12% of subjects stopped taking the drug because of the side effects. No investigations regarding the potential for dependence are available, but such a potential is unlikely considering the pharmacological properties of the two components.\n\nGW Pharmaceuticals were issued a unique license to cultivate cannabis for the manufacturing of Sativex in the UK, granting them the sole legal right to research in aerosolized cannabis derived therapeutics, which in April 2013 became commercially viable when the UK Government scheduled the Sativex formulation to part IV of the UK Drugs Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5897116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5897116", "title": "Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment", "text": "Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment\n\nThe Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment ( or simply \"RIVM\"), is a Dutch research institute that is an independent agency of the Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport.\n\nRIVM performs tasks to promote public health and a safe living environment by conducting research and collecting knowledge worldwide. The results are used to support the Dutch government in formulating its policy. RIVM's primary tasks are:\n\n\nRIVM is located in Bilthoven and employs over 1500 people, many of whom work in multidisciplinary fields.\n\nRIVM was founded in 1910 when the Central Laboratory for Public Health was created and the present size of the institute is the result of a merger between three government institutes in 1984. RIVM has now become a large, complex organisation with many different international links and a range of activities.\n\nThe RIVM organisation consists of three domains with specific knowledge and expertise: Infectious Diseases and Vaccinology (Centre for Infectious Disease Control), Environment and Safety (including environmental incident service), Public Health and Health Services (including food and food safety). RIVM organisation\n\n\nAbout RIVM\n\n"}
{"id": "42519032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42519032", "title": "New York Women's Foundation", "text": "New York Women's Foundation\n\nThe New York Women's Foundation (NYWF) is a charitable organization in New York that works on women's health and economic issues. It describes itself as a \"cross-cultural alliance of women catalyzing partnerships and leveraging human and financial capital to achieve sustained economic security and justice for women and girls.\"\n\nIt was established in 1987. It was co-founded by Gloria W. Milliken and Helen LaKelly Hunt. By 2007, it was giving away a million dollars a year. In 2008, it was slated to give away $2.75 million. In 2011, Ana Oliveira was president of the New York Women’s Foundation. In February 2013 it received a grant of $750,000 from Walmart. In April 2013, it released a report that found that women in New York are 30% more likely to die in childbirth than they were 12 years prior.\n\n"}
{"id": "33149594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33149594", "title": "Norwegian Health Economics Administration", "text": "Norwegian Health Economics Administration\n\nIts annual budget is about 23 billion Norwegian kroner (NOK), which includes direct payments to various health service providers, individual reimbursment for certain medicines, dental services and health services abroad. The institution currently has about 600 employees distributed among the Main Office, 6 Regional Offices, HELFO Patient Referral Unit and HELFO Service centre.\n\nHELFO organizes the GP scheme (fastlegeordningen), which ensures that all residents in Norway can seek a medical consultation with a general practitioner. The scheme is voluntary. Residents are entitled to swap their GP if they wish, for example if they wish to be listed with a GP in different municipality to where they live. The GP can be changed on the Internet.\n\nA European health insurance card entitles the holder to health services when staying temporarily in another EU/EEA country or in Switzerland. When the insurance card is presented to the person/institution treating the holder, he or she will be entitled to medical treatment in the country he or she is staying in on the same conditions as the people living there. This also means that he or she must pay the same patient charges as them.\n\nTo be entitled to a European health insurance card, the primary condition is that one is a member of the Norwegian National Insurance scheme, and that the person is a Norwegian citizen or a citizen of another EU/EEA country or Switzerland. The European health insurance card is a plastic card the size of a regular bank card. The scheme also covers family members, i.e. spouses and children under the age of 25. They are entitled to European health insurance cards regardless of citizenship and of whether they are members of the National Insurance scheme. Each family member must carry their own European health insurance card. The insurance card is issued for three years, provided that conditions are still met.\n\nMembers of the Norwegian National Insurance scheme, only pay a fixed part of the cost of public health services, called patient charges. This applies to medical treatment, buying medicines on a refundable prescription, physiotherapy, seeing a psychologist and travel expenses to consultations and treatment appointments. If a person has paid a certain amount in patient charges, he or she is eligible for an exemption card. This means he or she is exempt from paying patient charges for the rest of the calendar year. There are two types of exemption cards. The amounts are set annually by the Norwegian parliament, the Storting.\n\nThe exemption card for user fee group 1 covers approved patient charges paid to doctors, psychologists and outpatient clinics and for x-rays, patient travel and blue prescription medicine and equipment. The exemption card for user fee 2 covers approved patient charges paid for physiotherapy, certain dental diseases, approved rehabilitation institutions and travel for treatment abroad organised by Oslo University Hospital - Rikshospitalet HF.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20251567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20251567", "title": "Nosokinetics", "text": "Nosokinetics\n\nNosokinetics is the science/subject of measuring and modelling the process of care in health and social care systems.\" Nosokinetics\" brings together the Greek words for \"noso\": disease and \"kinetics\": movement.\n\nBlack box models are currently used to plan changes in health and social care systems. These input-output models overlook the process of inpatient care, as a result suboptimal decisions are made. Nosokinetics, (analogous to Pharmacokinetics), seeks to develop dynamic methods which measure and model the process of inpatient care. The aim is to develop a scientific base to underpin the planning of sustainable health and social care systems.\nNosokinetics is a new \"science\" that was established in the UK in the early 1990s by Prof Peter H Millard after publishing his PhD thesis. In 2004 Nosokinetics group newsletter was established.\n\nProf Peter H Millard writes about Nosokinetics : \"If the random forces of wind and tide can make such a beautiful statue (referring to an iceberg), how much better could mankind do if a new science was developed which explains the complex processes of health and social care. Until new methods of planning health and social care services to meet the needs of an ageing population are introduced, service delivery will stumble on from crisis to crisis. The world population is ageing and sustainable systems of health care need to be developed.\"\n\nHe has established the nosokinetics group of interested researchers. The group collaborates to organize conferences and disseminates news of nosokinetics and other researchers' research and practical use of modelling to enhance decision making in health and social care systems.\n\nThe Nosokinetics Group has succeeded in attracting a lot of researchers. Nosokinetics interested people are present in many countries including Australia, UK & Egypt. They are from different disciplines ranging from health care providers to management scientists. The news related to nosokinetics is shared to the network through the bimonthly newsletter \"Nosokinetics News\" which helps to communicate papers, conferences and events of interest to the Nosokinetics network.\n"}
{"id": "19525861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19525861", "title": "PKIDs", "text": "PKIDs\n\nPKIDs, which stands for Parents of Kids with Infectious Diseases, is a national nonprofit organization based in the United States that serves families of children living with chronic, viral infectious diseases and educates the public on various methods of disease prevention. Founded in 1996 by a handful of parents, the group became a 501 (c) (3) nonprofit in 1997. Since then, thousands of families have been helped and millions of individuals around the country have received PKIDs’ health messages.\n\nPKIDs started in 1996, when parents adopting internationally were bringing home babies and children with unexpected infections. Parents, wondering what their families were facing, searched for information on the Internet and, while doing so, found each other.\nIn 1997, the nonprofit was officially formed and incorporated in the state of Washington. In that same year, the families served grew to include all sorts of families – adoptive, biological, foster and so on.\n\nPKIDs’ mission is to educate the public about infectious diseases, the methods of prevention and transmission, and the latest advances in medicine; to eliminate the social stigma borne by the infected; and to assist the families of children living with HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, or other chronic, viral infectious diseases with emotional, financial, and informational support.\n\n"}
{"id": "24284963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24284963", "title": "Para-Iodoamphetamine", "text": "Para-Iodoamphetamine\n\n\"para\"-Iodoamphetamine (PIA), also known as 4-iodoamphetamine (4-IA), is a research chemical of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes.\n\nIt acts as a selective serotonin releasing agent and is also a MAOI.\n\nPIA is rumored to be a serotonergic neurotoxin on the account of that being reported to be the case for \"para\"-chloroamphetamine.\n\nHowever, PIA is a much weaker 5-HT neurotoxin than is the case for PCA.\n\n5-IAI was an attempt to make a non-neurotoxic analog of PIA.\n\n"}
{"id": "1479978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1479978", "title": "Phytic acid", "text": "Phytic acid\n\nPhytic acid (known as inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6), inositol polyphosphate, or phytate when in salt form) is the phosphate ester of inositol. It contains six phosphate groups. At physiological pH, these phosphates are partially ionized. The resulting anion is a colorless species that has significant nutritional role as the principal storage form of phosphorus in many plant tissues, especially bran and seeds. It is also present in many legumes, cereals, and grains. Phytic acid has a strong binding affinity to the dietary minerals, calcium, iron, and zinc, inhibiting their absorption.\n\nCatabolites of phytic acid are called lower inositol polyphosphates. Examples are inositol penta- (IP5), tetra- (IP4), and triphosphate (IP3).\n\nPhosphorus and inositol in phytate form are not, in general, bioavailable to nonruminant animals because these animals lack the digestive enzyme phytase required to hydrolyze (break) the inositol-phosphate linkages. Ruminants are readily able to digest phytate because of the phytase produced by rumen microorganisms.\n\nIn most commercial agriculture, non-ruminant livestock, such as swine, fowl, and fish, are fed mainly grains, such as maize, legumes, and soybeans. Because phytate from these grains and beans is unavailable for absorption, the unabsorbed phytate passes through the gastrointestinal tract, elevating the amount of phosphorus in the manure. Excess phosphorus excretion can lead to environmental problems, such as eutrophication. The use of sprouted grains will reduce the quantity of phytic acids in feed, with no significant reduction of nutritional value.\n\nAlso, viable low-phytic acid mutant lines have been developed in several crop species in which the seeds have drastically reduced levels of phytic acid and concomitant increases in inorganic phosphorus. However, germination problems have reportedly hindered the use of these cultivars thus far. This may be due to phytic acid's critical role in both phosphorus and metal ion storage. Phytate variants also have the potential to be used in soil remediation, to immobilize uranium, nickel and other inorganic contaminants.\n\nAlthough indigestible for many animals, phytic acid and its metabolites as they occur in seeds and grains have several important roles for the seedling plant.\n\nMost notably, phytic acid functions as a phosphorus store, as an energy store, as a source of cations and as a source of myoinositol (a cell wall precursor). Phytic acid is the principal storage form of phosphorus in plant seeds.\n\nIn animal cells, myoinositol polyphosphates are ubiquitous, and phytic acid (myoinositol hexakisphosphate) is the most abundant, with its concentration ranging from 10 to 100 µM in mammalian cells, depending on cell type and developmental stage.\n\nThis compound is not obtained from the animal diet, but must be synthesized inside the cell from phosphate and inositol (which in turn is produced from glucose, usually in the kidneys). The interaction of intracellular phytic acid with specific intracellular proteins has been investigated \"in vitro\", and these interactions have been found to result in the inhibition or potentiation of the physiological activities of those proteins. The best evidence from these studies suggests an intracellular role for phytic acid as a cofactor in DNA repair by nonhomologous end-joining. Other studies using yeast mutants have also suggested intracellular phytic acid may be involved in mRNA export from the nucleus to the cytosol.\n\nInositol hexaphosphate facilitates the formation of the six-helix bundle and assembly of the immature HIV-1 Gag lattice. IP6 makes ionic contacts with two rings of lysine residues at the centre of the Gag hexamer. Proteolytic cleavage then unmasks an alternative binding site, where IP6 interaction promotes the assembly of the mature capsid lattice. These studies identify IP6 as a naturally occurring small molecule that promotes both assembly and maturation of HIV-1.\n\nPhytic acid was discovered in 1903. Phytic acid, mostly as phytate in the form of phytin, is found within the hulls of seeds, including nuts, grains and pulses. In-home food preparation techniques can break down the phytic acid in all of these foods. Simply cooking the food will reduce the phytic acid to some degree. More effective methods are soaking in an acid medium, sprouting and lactic acid fermentation such as in sourdough and pickling. No detectable phytate (less than 0.02% of wet weight) was observed in vegetables such as scallion and cabbage leaves or in fruits such as apples, oranges, bananas, or pears.\n\nAs a food additive, phytic acid is used as the preservative, E391.\n\nChestnuts contain 47 mg of phytic acid for 100g.\n\nPhytic acid has a strong binding affinity to the dietary minerals, calcium, iron, and zinc, inhibiting their absorption. Phytochemicals like polyphenols and tannins also influence the binding. When iron and zinc bind to phytic acid, they form insoluble precipitates and are far less absorbable in the intestines. This process can therefore contribute to iron and zinc deficiencies in people whose diets rely on these foods for their mineral intake, such as those in developing countries and vegetarians.\n\nBecause phytic acid can affect the absorption of iron, it has been proposed that \"dephytinization should be considered as a major strategy to improve iron nutrition during the weaning period\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7152389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7152389", "title": "Planter's Exchange, Inc.", "text": "Planter's Exchange, Inc.\n\nThe Planter's Exchange, Inc. is a historic site in Havana, Florida. It is located at 204 2nd Street, Northwest, and was originally a tobacco warehouse. On September 17, 1999, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n"}
{"id": "33016456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33016456", "title": "Prevalence of female genital mutilation by country", "text": "Prevalence of female genital mutilation by country\n\nFemale genital mutilation (FGM), also known as female genital cutting (FGC), is practised in 30 countries in western, eastern, and north-eastern Africa, in parts of the Middle East and Asia, and within some immigrant communities in Europe, North America and Australia. The WHO defines the practice as \"all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons.\"\n\nIn a 2013 UNICEF report covering 29 countries in Africa and the Middle East, Ethiopia had the region's highest total number of women that have undergone FGM (27.2 million), while Somalia had the highest percentage (prevalence) of FGM (98%).\n\nThe world's first known campaign against FGM took place in Egypt in the 1920s. FGM prevalence in Egypt in 1995 was still at least as high as Somalia's 2013 world record (98%), despite dropping significantly since then among young women. Estimates of the prevalence of FGM vary according to source.\n\nThe WHO identifies four types of FGM:\n\nThe term \"prevalence\" is used to describe the proportion of women and girls now living in a country who have undergone FGM at some stage in their lives. This is distinct from the \"incidence\" of FGM which describes the proportion of women and girls who have undergone the procedure within a particular time period, which could be contemporary or historical. FGM is practiced in Africa, the Middle East, Indonesia and Malaysia, as well as some migrants in Europe, United States and Australia. It is also seen in some populations of South Asia. The highest known prevalence rates are in 30 African countries, in a band that stretches from Senegal in West Africa to Ethiopia on the east coast, as well as from Egypt in the north to Tanzania in the south.\n\nIn a 2013 UNICEF report based on surveys completed by select countries, FGM is known to be prevalent in 27 African countries, Yemen and Iraqi Kurdistan, where 125 million women and girls have undergone FGM. The UNICEF report notes FGM is found in countries beyond the 29 countries it covered, and the total worldwide number is unknown. \n\nOther reports claim the prevalence of FGM in countries not discussed by the 2013 UNICEF report. The practice occurs in Jordan, Iraq, Syria, Oman, United Arab Emirates and Qatar. Earlier reports claimed the prevalence of FGM in Israel among the Negev Bedouin, which by 2009 has virtually disappeared.\n\nAs a result of immigration, FGM has also spread to Europe, Australia, and the United States, with some families having their daughters undergo the procedure while on vacation overseas. As Western governments become more aware of FGM, legislation has come into effect in many countries to make the practice a criminal offense. In 2006, Khalid Adem became the first man in the United States to be prosecuted for mutilating his daughter.\n\nThe United Nations has called for elimination of the practice by 2030. A 2017 UCLA Fielding School of Public Health study, measuring trends in the prevalence of FGM over the course of three decades, found that they dropped significantly in 17 of the 22 countries surveyed. The researchers found a 2–8 percentage points increase in Chad, Mali and Sierra Leone during the 30-years period.\n\nMuch of the FGM prevalence data currently available is based on verbal surveys and self-reporting. Clinical examinations are uncommon. The assumption is that women respond truthfully when asked about their FGM status and that they know the type and extent of FGM that was performed on their genitalia. Many FGM procedures are performed at a very young age, many cultures feel a taboo about such discussions, and a number of such factors raise the possibility that the validity of survey responses might be incorrect, potentially underreported. In Oman, for example, some do not wish to discuss FGM from the fear that such discussion is showing their culture's dirty laundry to the world, causing criticism of a practice that they believe is purely religious.\n\nIn countries where FGM has been outlawed, fear of prosecution of family members or self, and social disapproval from elders may cause women to deny that they underwent or were subjected to FGM. For example, the self-reported circumcision status of women aged 15–49 was verbally surveyed in 1995 in northern Ghana. The same women were interviewed again in 2000 after the enactment of a law that criminalized FGM and Ghana-wide public campaigns against the practice. This study discovered that 13% of women who reported in 1995 that they had undergone FGM denied it in the 2000 interview, with youngest age group girls denying at rates as high as 50%.\n\nUNICEF has revised its data on the FGM prevalence rates in the Kurdistan region of the Middle East:\n\nIn July 2003, at its second summit, the African Union adopted the Maputo Protocol promoting women's rights and calling for an end to FGM. The agreement came into force in November 2005, and by December 2008, 25 member countries had ratified it.\n\nAs of 2013, according to a UNICEF report, 24 African countries have legislations or decrees against FGM/C practice; these countries are: Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Côte d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria (since 2015), Senegal, Somalia, Sudan (some states), Tanzania, Togo and Uganda (see page 9 of the report) and Zambia and South Africa (see page 8). In 2015, Gambia's president Yahya Jammeh \nhas banned FGM.\n\nIn 2014 The Girl Generation, an Africa-led campaign to oppose FGM worldwide, was launched.\n\nAlthough estimates of the prevalence of FGM vary, sources have consistently found the practice to be undergone by the majority of women in the Horn of Africa, in the West African countries of Guinea, Sierra Leone, Gambia, Mauritania, Mali and Burkina Faso, as well as in Sudan and Egypt.\nOf these countries, all have laws or decrees against the practice, with the exception of Sierra Leone, Mali and some states of Sudan.\n\nInfibulation, the most extreme form of FGM, known also as Type III, is practiced primarily in countries located in northeastern Africa.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in South Algeria among Sub-Saharan African migrants, but is considered a criminal offense and is punishable by up to 25 years in prison.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Benin. According to a 2011-12 survey, 7.3% of the women in Benin have been subjected to FGM. This is a decline over the 2001 survey, which reported 17%. The prevalence varies with religion in Benin; FGM is prevalent in 49% of Muslim women. The prevalence in other groups is lower, 3% of traditional religions, 3% of Roman Catholic and 1% in other Christian women. A 2003 law bans all forms of FGM. According to UNICEF, Benin experienced the most dramatic decline in low prevalence countries, from 8% in 2006 to 2% in 2012, a 75% decline.\n\nThe WHO gives a prevalence of 72.5% for the year of 2006. A 2003 survey found FGM to be prevalent in 77% of women in Burkina Faso. A 1998 survey reported a lower rate of 72%. This was not considered as evidence of an increase in the practice, but as reflecting the worldwide fact that better and more information is increasingly available on FGM. The prevalence varies with religion in Burkina Faso. FGM is prevalent in 82% of Muslim women, 73% of traditional religions, 66% of Roman Catholics and 60% of Protestants. \n\nIn a 2011 study on a wide range of variables, FGM prevalence characteristics in Burkina Faso was found to be strongly associated with religion, and age being the other important variable. A law prohibiting FGM was enacted in 1996 and went into effect in February 1997. Even before this law a presidential decree had set up the National Committee against excision and imposed fines on people guilty of excising girls and women. The new law includes stricter punishment. Several women excising girls have been handed prison sentences. Burkina Faso ratified the Maputo Protocol in 2006.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Cameroon. In a 2004 study, the FGM prevalence rate was 1.4%. Even though national rate is low, there are regions with high prevalence rate. In extreme north Cameroon, the prevalence rate is 13% for the Fulbe people and people of Arab descent. The prevalence varies with religion; FGM is prevalent in 6% of Muslim women, less than 1% of Christians, and 0% for Animist women. Cameroon's national penal code does not classify genital mutilation as a criminal offence. Article 277 criminalizes aggravated assault, including aggravated assault to organs. A draft law has been pending for over 10 years.\n\nWHO gives the prevalence of FGM in Central African Republic at 24.2% in 2010. A survey from 2000 found FGM was prevalent in 36% of Central African Republic women. This is a decline over the 1994 survey, which reported 43%. The prevalence in the 2000 survey varied with religion in Central African Republic; FGM was prevalent in 46% of Animist women, 39% of Muslim, 36% of Protestants, and 35% of Catholic women. \n\nIn 1996, the President issued an Ordinance prohibiting FGM throughout the country. It has the force of national law. Any violation of the Ordinance is punishable by imprisonment of from one month and one day to two years and a fine of 5,100 to 100,000 francs (approximately US$8–160). No arrests are known to have been made under the law. As FGM is less prevalent among younger women according to City University London in 2015, this suggested a decline in the practice.\n\nIn Chad's first survey on FGM in 2004, FGM prevalence rate was 45%. The prevalence varies with religion in Chad; FGM is prevalent in 61% of Muslim women, 31% of Catholics, 16% of Protestants, and 12% of traditional religions. The prevalence also varies with ethnic groups; the Arabs (95%), Hadjarai (94%), Ouadai (91%) and Fitri-batha (86%), and less than 2.5% among the Gorane, Tandjile and Mayo-Kebbi. Law no 6/PR/2002 on the promotion of reproductive health has provisions prohibiting FGM, but does not provide for sanctions. FGM may be punished under existing laws against assault, wounding, and mutilation of the body.\n\nFemale genital mutilation doesn't exist in Comoros.\n\nIn 2006, the prevalence of FGM was 36.4% among women aged 15–49 in Côte d’Ivoire. A 2005 survey found that 42% of all women aged between 15 and 49 had been subjected to FGM. This is similar to the FGM reported rate of 46% in 1998 and 43% in 1994. The prevalence varies with religion in Côte d'Ivoire; FGM is prevalent in 76% of Muslim women, 45% of Animist, 14% of Catholic and 13% of Protestant women. A 1998 law provides that harm to the integrity of the genital organ of a woman by complete or partial removal, excision, desensitization or by any other procedure will, if harmful to a woman's health, be punishable by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 360,000 to two million CFA Francs (approximately US$576–3,200). The penalty is five to twenty years incarceration if a death occurs during the procedure and up to five years' prohibition of medical practice, if this procedure is carried out by a doctor.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. FGM takes place among some populations in northern parts of the country. FGM is illegal: the law imposes a penalty of two to five years of prison and a fine of 200,000 Congolese francs on any person who violates the \"physical or functional integrity\" of the genital organs. The prevalence of FGM is estimated at about 5% of women in the country. Type II is usually performed.\n\nEstimates for FGM prevalence rate of FGM in Djibouti range from 93% to 98%. In a UNICEF 2010 report, Djibouti has the world's second highest rate of Type III FGM, with about two thirds of all Djibouti women undergoing the procedure; Type I is the next most common form of female circumcision practiced in the country. Like its neighboring countries, a large percentage of women in Djibouti also undergo re-infibulation after birth or a divorce. \n\nTwo thirds of the women claimed tradition and religion as the primary motivation for undergoing FGM. A predominantly Muslim country, Islamic clerics in Djibouti have been divided on the FGM issue, with some actively supporting the practice and others opposing it. FGM was outlawed in the country's revised Penal Code that went into effect in April 1995. Article 333 of the Penal Code provides that persons found guilty of this practice will face a five-year prison term and a fine of one million Djibouti francs (approximately US$5,600). Djibouti ratified the Maputo Protocol in 2005.\n\nEgypt's Ministry of Health and Population has banned all forms of female genital mutilation since 2007. The ministry's order declared it is 'prohibited for any doctors, nurses, or any other person to carry out any cut of, flattening or modification of any natural part of the female reproductive system'. Islamic authorities in the nation also stressed that Islam opposes female genital mutilation. The Grand Mufti of Egypt, Ali Gomaa, said that it is \"Prohibited, prohibited, prohibited.\" Egypt passed a law banning FGM. The June 2007 Ministry ban eliminated a loophole that allowed girls to undergo the procedure for health reasons. \n\nThere had previously been provisions under the Penal Code involving \"wounding\" and \"intentional infliction of harm leading to death\", as well as a ministerial decree prohibiting FGM. In December 1997, the Court of Cassation (Egypt's highest appeals court) upheld a government banning of the practice providing that those who did not comply would be subjected to criminal and administrative punishments. In Egypt's first trial for committing female genital mutilation, two men were acquitted in November 2014; the doctor was ordered to pay the girl's mother compensation. In 2015 after an appeal the doctor was sentenced to more than two years in prison and the father was given a three-month suspended sentence. On 30 May 2018, the Dar al-Ifta al-Misriyyah, a governmental body which advises on Islamic law, declared FGM 'religiously forbidden'. Health Minister Ahmed Emad el-Din Rady presented a six-step plan to eliminate FGM in Egypt by 2030.\n\nA study in 2000 found that 97% of Egypt's population practiced FGM. A 2005 study found that over 95% of Egyptian women have undergone some form of FGM. In a 2014 UNICEF report, the prevalence had dropped to 91%. The 2016 UNICEF report stated that the share of girls aged 15 to 19 who had undergone FGM dropped from 97% in 1985 to 70% in 2015. The percentage of girls and women aged 15 to 49 years who had\nundergone FGM in the years 2004–2015 was 87%, while girls aged 0 to 14 years who had undergone FGM in the years 2010–2015 numbered 14%. 38% of girls and women aged 15 to 49 years who had heard about FGM thought the practice should end, while 28% of the boys and men those ages did.\n\nThe government of Eritrea surveyed and published an official FGM prevalence rate of 89% in 2003. It was once over 93%. Historically, about 50% of the women in rural areas underwent Type III with stitching to close the vulva, while Type I and II was more common in urban areas. Overall, about a third of all women in Eritrea have undergone Type III FGM with stitching. Most FGM (68%) are performed on baby girls less than 1 year old, another 20% before they turn 5 year old. About 60% and 18% of Eritrean women believe FGM is a religious requirement, according to UNICEF, and the Eritrean government, respectively. \n\nThe prevalence varies with woman's religion, as well as by their ethnic group. A 2002 UNICEF study shows FGM prevalence among 99% of Muslim, 89% of Catholic and 85% of Protestant women aged 15–49 years. Eritrea outlawed all forms of female genital mutilation with Proclamation 158/2007 in March 2007. The law envisions a fine and imprisonment for anyone conducting or commissioning FGM.\n\nThe WHO gives a prevalence of 65% for FGM in Ethiopia (2016) in women age 15-49 and falling to 47.1 in those 15–19 years. In a 2016 UNICEF report, Ethiopia's regional prevalence of FGM is : Afar Region – 91.2%; Somali Region – 98.5%; Harari Region – 81.7%; Dire Dawa 75.3%; Amhara Region – 1.4% to 21.9%; Oromia Region – 75.6%; Addis Ababa City – 54%; Benishangul-Gumuz Region – 62.9%; Tigray Region – 24.2%; Southern Region – 62%; Gambela Region 33%. By ethnicity, it has a prevalence of 98.5% in Somali; 92.3% Hadiya; 98.4% Afar and 23% Tigray. The prevalence also varies with religion in Ethiopia; FGM is prevalent in 92% of Muslim women and with lower prevalence in other religions: 65.8% Protestants, 58.2% Catholics and 55% Traditional Religions. FGM has been made illegal by the 2004 Penal Code.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is prevalent in Gambia. In a 2013 report, an estimated 76.3% of girls and women have been subjected to FGM/C. A 2006 UNICEF survey found a 78.3% prevalence rate in Gambia. The age when FGM is done on Gambian girls ranges from 7 days after birth up to pre-adolescence. \n\nGambia's predominant religion is Islam (90%), and it has many ethnic groups. Prevalence rates of FGM/C vary significantly between the ethnic groups: Sarahule (FGM rate of 98%), Mandinka (97%), Djola (87%), Serer (43%), and Wolof (12%). Urban areas report FGM/C rates of about 56%, whereas in rural areas, rates exceed 90%. A majority of Gambian women who underwent FGM/C claimed they did it primarily because religion mandates it. \n\nA 2011 clinical study reports 66% FGMs in Gambia were Type I, 26% were Type II and 8% Type III. About a third of all women in Gambia with FGM/C, including Type I, suffered health complications because of the procedure. In 2015, Gambia's president Yahya Jammeh has banned FGM. As FGM is less prevalent among younger women according to City University London in 2015, this suggested a decline in the practice.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Ghana. According to the WHO, its prevalence is 3.8%. In 1989, the head of the government of Ghana, President Rawlings, issued a formal declaration against FGM. Article 39 of Ghana's Constitution also provides in part that traditional practices that are injurious to a person's health and well being are abolished. The Criminal Code was amended in 1994 to outlaw FGM, and the law was strengthened in 2007. Ghana ratified the Maputo Protocol in 2007.\n\nGuinea has the second highest FGM prevalence rate in the world. In a 2005 survey, 96% of all Guinea women aged between 15 and 49 had been cut. That is a slight decline in the practice from the 1999 recorded FGM rate of 98.6%. Among the 15- to 19-year-olds the prevalence was 89%, among 20- to 24-year-olds 95%. About 50% of the women in Guinea believe FGM is a religious requirement. Guinea is predominantly a Muslim country, with 90% of the population practicing Islam. The high FGM rates are observed across all religions in Guinea; FGM is prevalent in 99% of Muslim women, 94% of Catholics and Protestants, and 93% of Animist women. \n\nFGM is illegal in Guinea under Article 265 of the Penal Code. The law sentences death to the perpetrator if the girl dies within 40 days after the FGM. Article 6 of the Guinean Constitution, which outlaws cruel and inhumane treatment, could be interpreted to include these practices, should a case be brought to the Supreme Court. Guinea signed the Maputo Protocol in 2003 but has not ratified it. \n\nArticle 305 of Guinea’s penal code also bans FGM, but nobody has yet been sentenced under any of Guinea's FGM-related laws. In Guinea, instead of stopping FGM, the trend is towards medicalisation of FGM, where the mutilation is advertised under hygienic conditions by medically trained staff, who see FGM practice an additional source of income. Per the above 2005 survey, 27% of girls were cut by medically trained staff.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Guinea-Bissau, and have been estimated at a 50% prevalence rate in 2000. A law banning the practice nationwide was adopted by Parliament in June 2011 with 64 votes to 1. At the time, 45% of women aged 15 to 49 years were affected by FGM. According to a survey, 33% of women favoured a continuation of genital cutting, but 50% of the overall population wanted to abandon the practice.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Kenya. The 2014 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) estimated the national prevalence of FGM to be 21% among women age 15-49, down from 27% in the 2008/09 survey and 32 percent in the 2003 survey. The prevalence of FGM in 2014 varied widely by age, location, ethnic group, and religion. Prevalence of FGM increases with age. It is lowest among women ages 15–19 at 11.4%, and highest among women aged 45–49 at 40.9%. This trend underscores the declining trend in FGM over time. \n\nBy region, prevalence is highest in the former provinces of North Eastern (97.5%), Nyanza (32.4%), Rift Valley (26.9%), and Eastern (26.4%), and lower in Central (16.5%), Coast (10.2%), Nairobi (8.0%), and Western (0.8%). It is more common in rural areas (25.9%) than urban (13.8%). By ethnic group, FGM is most prevalent among women in the Somali (93.6%), Samburu (86.0%), Kisii (84.4%), and Maasai (77.9%) ethnic groups. By religion, it is more prevalent in Muslim women (51.1%) and women listing no religion (32.9%) and less prevalent in Roman Catholic (21.5%) and Protestant or other Christian women (17.9%).\n\nIn 2001 Kenya enacted the Children’s Act, under the provisions of which FGM was criminalized when practiced on girls younger than 18. The practice was made illegal nationwide in September 2011.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is prevalent in Liberia. Genital mutilation is a taboo subject in Liberia. It is difficult to get accurate data on FGM prevalence rate. The FGM procedure is mandatory for initiation of women into the secret Liberia and Sierra Leone society called the Sande society, sometimes called Bondo. A 2007 demographic survey asked women if they belonged to Sande society. It was assumed that those who were part of Sande society had undergone FGM. Based on this estimation method, the prevalence of FGM in Liberia has been estimated as 58%. Liberia has consented to international charters such as CEDAW as well as Africa's Maputo Protocol. National legislation explicitly making FGM punishable by law has yet to be passed. As FGM was less prevalent among younger women in a 2015 study, this suggested a decline in the practice.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is rarely practiced in Libya. Likely to be found in rural areas.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced in Malawi mostly in the following districts of Malawi. Southern Malawi: Mulanje, Thyolo, Mangochi and parts of Machinga and Chiradzuro District. In the Northern part of Malawi: Nkhatabay. This custom is common among the Tonga tribe, Yao tribe and Lomwe tribe. It is a custom which has been there for generation. In some villages it is deeply routed compared to others . Every FGM camp has its own degree of how deep they want to conduct the custom but the motive is the same. It is shrouded in silence. Not even the government authorities can trace the roots because the high powers are given to the local authorities of the village and clan.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is prevalent in Mali. The WHO gives a prevalence of 85.2% for women aged 15–49 in 2006 in Mali. In a 2007 report, 92% of all Mali women between the ages of 15 and 49 had been subjected to FGM. The rates of FGM are lower only among the Sonrai (28%), the Tamachek (32%) and the Bozo people (76%). Nearly half are Type I, another half Type II. The prevalence varies with religion in Mali; FGM is prevalent in 92% of Muslim women, 76% of Christians. \n\nAbout 64% of the women of Mali believe FGM is a religious requirement. In 2002, Mali created a government program aimed at discouraging FGM (\"Ordinance No. 02-053 portant creation du programme national de lutte contre la pratique de l’excision\" [Ordinance creating a National Program to Fight the Practice of Female Genital Mutilation]). There is no specific legislation criminalizing FGM.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is prevalent in Mauritania. According to 2001 survey, 71% of all women aged between 15 and 49 had undergone FGM. A 2007 demographic cluster study found no change in FGM prevalence rate in Mauritania. Type II FGM is most frequent. About 57% of Mauritania women believe FGM is a religious requirement. Mauritania is 99% Muslim. The FGM prevalence rate varies by ethnic groups: 92% of Soninke women are cut, about 70% of Fulbe and Moorish women, but only 28% of Wolof women have undergone FGM. Mauritania has consented to international charters such as CEDAW as well as Africa's Maputo Protocol. Ordonnance n°2005-015 on child protection restricts FGM.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Mozambique.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Niger. In a 2006 survey, about 2% of Niger women had undergone FGM/C. In 1998, Niger reported a 4.5% prevalence rate. This survey data is potentially incorrect because, adjusted for age group, the women who claimed to have experienced FGM at the previous survey still are, albeit in a different age group. The 2006 survey implies more women had never experienced FGM than previously reported. The DHS surveyors claim the adoption of criminal legislation and fear of prosecution may explain why Niger women did not want to report having ever been circumcised. A WHO report estimates the prevalence rate of FGM in Niger to be 20%. Other sources, including a UNICEF 2009 report, claim FGM rates are high in Niger. A law banning FGM was passed in 2003 by the Niger government.\n\nA 2008 demographic survey found 30% of all Nigerian women have been subjected to FGM. This contrasts with 25% reported by a 1999 survey, and 19% by 2003 survey. This suggests no trend, unreliable past or most recent survey data in some regions, as well as the possibility that a number of women are increasingly willing to acknowledge having undergone FGM. Another possible explanation for higher 2008 prevalence rate is the definition of FGM used, which included Type IV FGMs. In some parts of Nigeria, the vagina walls are cut in new born girls or other traditional practices performed - such as the \"angurya\" and \"gishiri\" cuts - which fall under Type IV FGM classification of the World Health Organization. Over 80% of all FGMs are performed on girls under one year of age. The prevalence varies with religion in Nigeria; FGM is prevalent in 31% of Catholics, 27% of Protestant and 7% of Muslim women. FGM was banned throughout the country in 2015.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced in the Republic of the Congo, and has been estimated at a 5% prevalence rate.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Senegal. According to 2005 survey, FGM prevalence rate is 28% of all women aged between 15 and 49. There are significant differences in regional prevalence. FGM is most widespread in the Southern Senegal (94% in Kolda Region) and in Northeastern Senegal (93% in Matam Region). FGM rates are lower in other regions: Tambacounda (86%), Ziguinchor (69%), and less than 5% in Diourbel and Louga Regions. Senegal is 94% Muslim. The FGM prevalence rate varies by religion: 29% of Muslim women have undergone FGM, 16% of Animists, and 11% of Christian women. \n\nA law that was passed in January 1999 makes FGM illegal in Senegal. President Diouf had appealed for an end to this practice and for legislation outlawing it. The law modifies the Penal Code to make this practice a criminal act, punishable by a sentence of one to five years in prison. A spokesperson for the human rights group RADDHO (The African Assembly for the Defense of Human Rights) noted in the local press that \"Adopting the law is not the end, as it will still need to be effectively enforced for women to benefit from it. Senegal ratified the Maputo Protocol in 2005.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is prevalent in Sierra Leone. According to a 2008 survey, 91% of women in Sierra Leone between the ages of 15 and 49 have undergone FGM. The highest rate of prevalence is in the Northern Sierra Leone (97%). Type II is most common, but Type I is known as well as Type III. In a 2013 report, researchers first conducted verbal surveys followed by clinical examination. They found that the verbal disclosure were not completely reliable, and clinical examination showed greater extent of FGM. These researchers report 68% Type II and 32% Type I in Sierra Leone women. \n\nLike Liberia, Sierra Leone has the traditional secret society of women, called Bondo or Sande society, which uses FGM as part of the initiation rite. 70% of the population is Muslim, 20% Christian, and 10% as traditional religions. Only Creole Christians of Sierra Leone are known to not practice FGM. There is no federal law against FGM in Sierra Leone; and the \"Soweis\" - those who do FGM excision - wield considerable political power during elections.\n\nAccording to a 2005 WHO estimate, about 97.9% of Somalia's women and girls underwent FGM. This was at the time the world's highest prevalence rate of the procedure. A 2010 UNICEF report also noted that Somalia had the world's highest rate of Type III FGM, with 79% of all Somali women having undergone the procedure; another 15% underwent Type II FGM. The prevalence rate varies considerably by region and is on the decline in the northern part of the country. In 2013, UNICEF in conjunction with the Somali authorities reported that the FGM prevalence rate among 1- to 14-year-old girls in the autonomous northern Puntland and Somaliland regions had dropped to 25% following a social and religious awareness campaign. Article 15 of the Federal Constitution adopted in August 2012 also prohibits female circumcision.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in South Africa.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in South Sudan, but its exact prevalence is unknown. A 2015 UNICEF report claimed 1% of women aged 15–49 had been subjected to FGM, but as of May 2018 there were no recent data confirming this figure. FGM has been reported to be practiced in some Christian and Muslims communities, and has been noted in some refugee camps in Upper Nile State. South Sudanese law has banned female genital mutilation, but the government has not enacted a clear plan to eradicate the phenomenon.\n\nThe prevalence of FGM in Sudan is 90%. Only some states of Sudan have laws against FGM; currently there is no national law forbidding FGM, although Sudan was the first country to outlaw it in 1946, under the British. Type III was prohibited under the 1925 Penal Code, with less severe forms allowed. Outreach groups have been trying to eradicate the practice for 50 years, working with NGOs, religious groups, the government, the media and medical practitioners. Arrests have been made but no further action seems to have taken place. Sudan signed the Maputo Protocol in June, 2008 but no ratification has yet been deposited with the African Union.\n\nAccording to 2015-16 survey in Tanzania, FGM prevalence rate is 10% of all women aged between 15 and 49 and 4.7% for those aged 15–19. In contrast, the 1996 survey reported 17.6, suggesting a drop of 7.6% over 20 years or unwillingness to disclose. Type II FGM was found to be most common. There are significant differences in regional prevalence; FGM is most widespread in Manyara (81%), Dodoma (68%), Arusha (55%), Singida (43%) and Mara (38%) regions. The practice varies with religion, with reported prevalence rates of 20% for Christian and 15% of Muslim women. \n\nSection 169A of the Sexual Offences Special Provisions Act of 1998 prohibits FGM in Tanzania. Punishment is imprisonment of from five to fifteen years or a fine not exceeding 300,000 shillings (approximately US$250) or both. Tanzania ratified the Maputo Protocol in 2007. As with Kenya, Tanzania 1998 Act protects only girls up to the age of 18 years. The FGM law is being occasionally implemented, with 52 violations have been reported, filed and prosecuted. At least 10 cases were convicted in Tanzania.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced in Togo. In a 2014 UNICEF report, the prevalence is 1.8% in girls 15-19. The WHO puts its prevalence at 5.8% in 2006. Other sources cite 12% and 50% as prevalence. Type II is usually practiced. On October 30, 1998, the National Assembly unanimously voted to outlaw the practice of FGM. Penalties under the law can include a prison term of two months to ten years and a fine of 100,000 francs to one million francs (approximately US$160 to 1,600). A person who had knowledge that the procedure was going to take place and failed to inform public authorities can be punished with one month to one year imprisonment or a fine of from 20,000 to 500,000 francs (approximately US$32 to 800). Togo ratified the Maputo Protocol in 2005.\n\nAnyone convicted of carrying out FGM is subject to 10 years in prison. If the life of the patient is lost during the operation a life sentence is recommended. In 1996, a court intervened to prevent the performance of FGM under Section 8 of the Children Statute, which makes it unlawful to subject a child to social or customary practices harmful to the child's health. Uganda signed the Maputo Protocol in 2003 but has not ratified it. In early July 2009, President Yoweri Museveni stated that a law would soon be passed prohibiting the practice, with alternative livelihoods found for its practitioners.\nThe anti FGM act 2010 is currently available for reference.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Zimbabwe.\n\nIn recent years the increase in immigration for individuals from countries which practice FGM, has led to the introduction of FGM in European and North American societies. FGM prevalence rate has been difficult to quantify among immigrants to European countries. A case study which investigated FGM in groups of migrant women from Northern Africa to European regions like Scandinavia, noted that a majority of these women had FGM before their migration to Europe. \n\nIt has also been established that African communities in European countries continue the practice of FGM on their daughters after migrating to Europe. For instance in Sweden, a study by Karolinska Institutet concluded that about a third of families migrated from countries with a FGM culture wanted to continue mutilating in their new countries. The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, which came into force on 1 August 2014, defines and criminalize the practice in Article 38:\nBetween 1979 and 2004, a total of 29 FGM court cases were brought before criminal courts, mostly from the\nmid-1990s onwards and with aggravated sentences. By 2013, more than 100 people had been convicted of FGM. FGM is a criminal offense punishable by 10 years or up to 20 years in jail if the victim is under 15 years of age. The law requires anyone to report any case of mutilation or planned mutilation. In 2014 it was reported that about 100 people in France had been jailed. Not only the person carrying out the mutilation is sentenced, parents organising the crime face legal proceedings as well.\n\nAccording to women's right organisation Terre des Femmes in 2014, there were 25,000 victims in Germany and a further 2,500 are under threat of becoming mutilated. In 2018, the estimate had increased to . A further were at risk of having the mutilation done to them which represented an increase of 17% on the previous year.\n\nAfter a few cases of infibulation practiced by complaisant medical practitioners within the African immigrant community came to public knowledge through media coverage, the Law n°7/2006 was passed on 1/9/2006, becoming effective on 1/28/2006, concerning \"Measures of prevention and prohibition of any female genital mutilation practice\"; the Act is also known as the \"Legge Consolo\" (\"Consolo Act\") named after its primary promoter, Senator Giuseppe Consolo. Article 6 of the law integrates the Italian Penal Code with Articles 583-\"Bis\" and 583-\"Ter\", punishing any practice of female genital mutilation \"not justifiable under therapeutical or medical needs\" with imprisonment ranging from 4 to 12 years (3 to 7 years for any mutilation other than, or less severe than, clitoridectomy, excision or infibulation).\n\nThe penalty can be reduced up to if the harm caused is of modest entity (i.e. if partially or completely unsuccessful), but may also be elevated up to if the victim is a minor or if the offense has been committed for profit. An Italian citizen or a foreign citizen legally resident in Italy can be punished under this law even if the offense is committed abroad; the law will as well afflict any individual of any citizenship in Italy, even illegally or provisionally. The law also mandates any medical practitioner found guilty under those provisions to have his/her medical license revoked for a minimum of six up to a maximum of ten years.\n\nFGM is considered mutilation and is punishable as a criminal offense under Dutch law. There is no specific law against FGM: the act is subsumed under the general offense of inflicting harm (\"mishandeling\" in Dutch, art. 300–304 Dutch Criminal Code). The maximum penalty is a prison sentence of 12 years. The sentence can be higher if the offender is a family member of the victim. It is also illegal to assist or encourage another person to perform FGM. A Dutch citizen or a foreign citizen legally resident in the Netherlands can be punished even if the offense is committed abroad. Doctors have the obligation to report suspected cases of FGM and may break patient confidentiality rules if necessary.\n\nFGM is punishable as a criminal offense under Norwegian law even if the offense is committed abroad.\n\nA study on female genital mutilation practiced in Dagestan, made public in 2016 by Legal Initiative for Russia, revealed that FGM is widespread in Dagestan. The girls undergo mutilation in early age, up to three years old. The practice has been publicly approved in the predominantly Muslim region of Dagestan by religious leaders such as Mufti Ismail Berdiyev. Later an Orthodox Christian priest also backed the cleric.\n\nThe Criminal Code does state that sexual mutilation, such as FGM, is a criminal offense punishable by up to 12 years in jail, even if the offence is committed abroad.\n\nIn 1982, Sweden was the first western country in the world to explicitly prohibit genital mutilation. It is punishable by up to ten years in prison, and in 1999 the Government extended the law to include procedures performed abroad. General child protection laws could also be used. The prevalence of FGM among immigrant groups in Sweden is unknown, but there have been 46 cases of suspected genital mutilation since the law was introduced in 1982, and two convictions, according to a report published in 2011 by the National Centre for Knowledge on Men's Violence against Women.\n\nIn June 2014, Norrköpings Tidningar published a story on genital mutilation, which was picked up by the foreign press, including The Independent and The Daily News. It was claimed that every single girl in one school class had been victims of genital mutilation. None of the newspapers said where and when the genital mutilation took place. It was later published by Sweden's national public radio that none of the girls had been subjected to the procedure, or had any procedure performed on them abroad, while living in Sweden.\n\nThe National Board of Health and Welfare has estimated that up to 38,000 women living in Sweden may have been the victims of FGM. This calculation is based on UNICEF estimates on prevalence rates in Africa, and refer to FGM carried out before arriving in Sweden. In 2014, a Somali-born national coordinator at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland said the problem is not actively being pursued by authorities and the issue is avoided for fear of being perceived as racist or as stigmatising minority ethnic groups. The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs launched an action plan against FGM in 2003, which included giving courses to African women and men, who are now working as health advisors and influencing the public opinion among their fellow countrymen. The Government have also issued guidelines for officials in the social sector concerning actions and measures in a variety of situations.\n\nFGM was made a criminal offence by the Prohibition of Female Circumcision Act 1985. This was superseded by the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003, and (in Scotland) by the Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation (Scotland) Act 2005. Taking a UK citizen or permanent resident abroad for the purpose of FGM is a criminal offence whether or not it is lawful in the country the girl is taken to. Since April 2014, all NHS hospitals will be able to record if a patient has undergone FGM or if there is a family history of this, and by September 2014, all acute hospitals will have to report this data to the Department of Health, on a monthly basis. Despite FGM being illegal since 1985 the authorities are yet to prosecute even one case successfully.\n\nThe number of women aged 15–49 resident in England and Wales born in FGM practising regions having migrated to the UK was in 2001 and increased to in 2011. The number of women born in the Horn of Africa, where FGM is nearly universal and the most severe types of FGM, infubulation, is commonly practised, increased from in 2001 to in 2011, an increase of . \n\nThe number of women of all ages having undergone FGM rituals was estimated to be in 2011. The number of women of ages 15–49 having undergone FGM rituals was estimated to in 2001 and there was an increase to in 2011. Additionally, approximately 10,000 girls aged under 15 and 24,000 women over 50, who have migrated to England and Wales, are likely to have undergone FGM.\n\nThe city with the highest prevalence of FGM in 2015 was London, at a rate of 28.2 per 1000 women aged 15–49, by far the highest. The borough with the highest rate was Southwark, at 57.5 per 1000 women, while mainly rural areas of the UK had prevalence rate below 1 per 1000.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Bahrain.\n\nNational data on FGM in Iran are unknown. Various studies have been conducted on prevalence in provinces and counties, suggesting significant regional differences. FGM is known to be prevalent in four provinces: West Azerbaijan Province (mostly the Kurdish populated southern part), Kurdistan Province and Kermanshah Province in the Kurdish-dominated northwest, and Hormozgan Province and islands near it in the south.\n\nFGM in Iran is primarily associated with Sunni Muslims following the Shafi‘i madhhab, especially those living in certain Kurdish-populated rural areas in northwestern Iran, adjacent to the Kurdish-speaking regions in northeastern Iraq where FGM also has a relatively high presence compared to the non-Kurdish areas around it. There is strong disparity even within the Kurdish communities, and the prevalence may differ considerably from one village to the next. Unlike the Iraqi Kurdistan government, which has implemented a relatively successful anti-FGM campaign, official representatives as well as nationalist individuals or groups tend to deny FGM even exists in Iran. In the southern province of Hormozgan, FGM is mostly practiced by (Persian) Sunnis, but also a small minority of Shias living near them.\n\nThe issue is rarely discussed in public; the national Shia religious establishment claims it as an exclusively Sunni practice in which it should not get involved, and generally sees no reason to try and end it. It is also rarely the subject of research in academia, with the government neither permitting nor funding any public engagement projects for the affected regions.\n\nIn 2016, Susie Latham reported that FGC had been abandoned around the capital of the south-western province Khuzestan in the 1950s. Research by Kameel Ahmady (2005–2015) also revealed the practice had been abandoned in several other parts of Iran, such as among Shia Kurdish women in parts of Kermanshah and Ilam Province.\n\nSome studies estimate the Type I and II FGM among Iraqi migrants and other Kurdish minority groups to be variable, ranging from 40% to 85%.\nAssuming FGM had no significant presence in other provinces, this would amount to a national prevalence of c. 2% in Iran in 2014.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is prevalent in Iraqi Kurdistan, with an FGM rate of 72% according to the 2010 WADI report for the entire region and exceeding 80% in Garmyan and New Kirkuk. In Arbil Governorate and Suleymaniya Type I FGM is common; while in Garmyan and New Kirkuk, Type II and III FGM are common. There was no law against FGM in Iraqi Kurdistan, but in 2007 a draft legislation condemning the practice was submitted to the Regional Parliament, but was not passed. A 2011 Kurdish law criminalized FGM practice in Iraqi Kurdistan and this law is not being enforced. \n\nA field report by Iraqi group PANA Center, published in 2012, shows 38% of females in Kirkuk and its surrounding districts areas had undergone female circumcision. Of those females circumcised, 65% were Kurds, 26% Arabs and rest Turkmen. On the level of religious and sectarian affiliation, 41% were Sunnis, 23% Shiites, rest Kaka’is, and none Christians or Chaldeans. A 2013 report finds FGM prevalence rate of 59% based on clinical examination of about 2000 Iraqi Kurdish women; FGM found were Type I, and 60% of the mutilation were performed to girls in 4–7 year age group. See Asuda, a Kurdistan NGO. The highest prevalence rates of FGM are in Kirkuk (20%), Sulaymaniyah (54%) and Erbil (58%).\n\nResidents of Wadi Araba village in southern Jordan are known to practice FGM. The practice is foreign to the rest of the country, experts speculate that this practise was introduced through descendants of tribes that came from neighbouring Gaza and Beer Sheba.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is not practiced in Kuwait. Few ethnic migrant minorities are believed to perform the procedure outside of public health institutions where they risk injury and infections.\n\nThe practice is very prevalent in Oman. A 2013 article by journalist Susan Mubarak describes FGM practice in Oman, and claims the practice is very common in Dhofar in the southwest. The author went on to say that a previous article on the topic received both positive feedback for spreading awareness of what some considered a 'horrific tradition', as well as negative feedback from others for 'hanging Dhofar’s dirty washing for the world to see and criticising a practice that they believe is purely Islamic,' commenting that she 'paid little attention to these criticisms because I know the practice is harmful and primitive', and 'our religion neither encourages the practice nor condemns it.' \n\nAccording to a small survey by human rights activist and statistician Habiba Al Hinai conducted in October 2013 and published in January 2014, 78% of 100 women interviewed living in the capital city of Muscat had undergone FGM. These women came from all parts of the country, each region showing a very high prevalence, and even though fewer women from Muscat itself had undergone FGM, they were still in the majority. Her findings contradicted the common belief that FGM was only widespread in the south. Type I is mostly performed in southern Oman and typically performed within a few weeks of a girl's birth, while Type IV is observed in other parts of northern Oman.\n\nFGM otherwise is not practice in Oman neither is considered prominent by the World Health Organization.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Palestine.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Qatar.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Saudi Arabia. FGM is most prevalent in Saudi regions following Shafi'i school within the Sunni sect of Islam, such as Hejaz, Tihamah and Asir. In a clinical study, Alsibiani and Rouzi provide evidence of the practice in Saudi Arabia. Another 2010 report claims post-FGM medical complications are an indicator of widespread prevalence of the practice in Saudi women. A 2012 study finds, that of the Saudi women who had FGM, Type III was more common than Type I or II.\n\nCircumstantial evidence suggests FGM exists in Syria. A 2012 conference confirmed that FGM is observed in Syria.\n\nThough there is little hard evidence of the practice of FGM in Turkey, circumstantial evidence suggests FGM exists in the southern Turkey where the majority of the population is Kurdish.\n\nThe WHO mentions a study that documents FGM in the United Arab Emirates, but does not provide data. The practice is reportedly prevalent in rural and urban UAE.) In a 2011 survey, 34% of Emirati female respondents said FGM had been performed on them, and explained the practice to customs and tradition. FGM is a controversial topic in UAE, and people argue about whether it is an Islamic requirement or a tribal tradition. A significant number of UAE nationals follow in the footsteps of their parents and grandparents without questioning the practice. A 2012 report published by UAE government scores UAE at 31% on prevalence of Female Genital Mutilation.\n\nAccording to a 2008 UNICEF report, 30% prevalence; in addition to the adult prevalence, UNICEF reports that 20% of women aged 15–49 have a daughter who had the procedure in Yemen. In 4 of Yemen's 21 governorates, according to a 2008 report, the FGM prevalence rates exceed 80%: al-Hudaydah (97%), Hadhramaut (97%), al-Mahrah (97%) and Adan (82%); Sana'a Governorate, which includes the capital of Yemen, has a prevalence rate of 46%. Type II FGM was most common, accounting for 83% of all FGMs. Type I FGMs accounted for 13%. \n\nYemeni tradition is to carry out the FGM on a new born, with 97% of FGM being done within the first month of a baby girl. In 2001, Yemen banned FGM in all private and public medical facilities by a government decree, but not homes. The Yemeni government did not enforce this decree. In 2009, conservative Yemeni parliamentarians opposed the adoption of a nationwide criminal law against FGM. In 2010, the Ministry of Human Rights of Yemen launched a new study to ascertain over 4 years if FGM is being practiced in Yemen, then propose a new law against FGM. A 2013 UNICEF report claims Yemen's FGM prevalence rate have not changed in last 30 years.\n\nThere is some evidence to indicate that FGM is practised in Ontario and across Canada among immigrant and refugee communities. FGM is considered child assault and prohibited under sections 267 (assault causing bodily harm) or 268 (aggravated assault, including wounding, maiming, disfiguring) of the Criminal Code.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control estimated in 1997 that 168,000 girls living in the United States had undergone FGM or were at risk. Khalid Adem, a Muslim who had moved from Ethiopia to Atlanta, Georgia, became the first person to be convicted in the US in an FGM case; he was sentenced to ten years in 2006 for having severed his two-year-old daughter's clitoris with a pair of scissors. Performing the procedure on anyone under the age of 18 became illegal in the U.S. in 1997 with the \"Federal Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act\". \n\nAs of 2018, 27 U.S. states have specific laws against FGM. States that do not have such laws may use other general statutes, such as assault, battery or child abuse. The \"Transport for Female Genital Mutilation Act\" was passed in January 2013, and prohibits knowingly transporting a girl out of the U.S. for the purpose of undergoing FGM.\n\nFauziya Kasinga, a 19-year-old member of the Tchamba-Kunsuntu tribe of Togo, was granted asylum in 1996 after leaving an arranged marriage to escape FGM; this set a precedent in US immigration law because it was the first time FGM was accepted as a form of persecution.\n\nIn 2016, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released a report compiled with data from 2010-2013. The 2013 study estimated 513,000 girls and women in the United States were either victims of FGM or at risk of FGM, with ⅓ under age 18. The marked increase in the number of girls and women at risk of FGM in the United States was attributed to an increase in the total number of immigrants from countries where FGM is most common, not an increase in the frequency of the practice.\n\nThe only indigenous tribe in Latin America known to practise FGM is Colombia's Emberá people. The tradition was extremely secretive and taboo until a 2007 incident, in which a girl died as a result of FGM. The incident caused much controversy, raised awareness and stimulated debate about ending the practice altogether. In 2015, it was reported that of the approximately 250,000 members of the tribe, 25,000 (10%) had decided to discontinue female genital mutilation, with a community leader saying they hoped to eradicate it by 2030.\n\nIn 1994 there were several anecdotal reports of FGM being practised amongst migrant communities in Australia. By 1997, all Australian states and territories had made FGM a criminal offence. It is also a criminal offence to take, or propose to take, a child outside Australia to have a FGM procedure performed. The incidence of FGM in Australia is unknown as it is often only uncovered when women and girls are taken to hospital due to complications with the procedure. In 2015 two unnamed women became the first people in Australia to be convicted of carrying out FGM; their case was also the first time such an offense had come to trial in Australia.\n\nIn 2017 the first national study by researches at the Westmead Children's Hospital in Sydney found 59 girls having attended medical staff since 2010, with many having had the most extreme form of the procedure done to them. A fifth of those had infibulation, the removal of the clitoris and external genitalia with the opening sewed up. The number was deemed to strongly underestimate the true number of cases. Most of the procedures had been done overseas, but two children born in Australia had the procedure done in New South Wales and a third child born in Australia had been taken to Indonesia to have the procedure done. Of the 59 girls, only 13 had been in contact with child protection services. Most (about 90%) were identified during refugee screening and had African origin.The report also stated that there was no FGM registry in Australia and even when detected is not routinely reported. The two most common countries of birth for the girls were Somalia (24) and Eritrea (12).\n\nUnder a 1995 amendment to the Crimes Act, it is illegal to perform \"any medical or surgical procedure or mutilation of the vagina or clitoris of any person\" for reasons of \"culture, religion, custom or practice\". It is also illegal to send or make any arrangement for a child to be sent out of New Zealand for FGM to be performed, assist or encourage any person in New Zealand to perform FGM on a New Zealand citizen or resident outside New Zealand convince or encourage any other New Zealand citizen or resident to go outside New Zealand to have FGM performed.\n\nAnti-FGM organisations in Asia have complained that global attention on eradicating FGM goes almost entirely to Africa. Consequently, few studies have been done into FGM in Asian countries, complicating anti-FGM campaigns due to a lack of data on the phenomenon. Indian activist Masooma Ranalvi, who underwent FGM as a 7-year-old, was quoted as saying: \"[T]he entire discourse on FGM up to now has centred on Africa. Africa of course needs attention but maybe there are other places where the focus can be spread to.\"\n\nFemale genital mutilation is present in Afghanistan, mainly in south border connecting to Pakistan.\n\nFemale genital mutilation Type IV is present in Brunei.\n\nThe practice of FGM constitutes a criminal offense under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012; Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. Estimates suggest 90% of females in the Ismaili Shia Muslim Bohra community in India undergo FGM. There are about 2 million Bohras in India.In a survey, over 70% Bohra respondents said an untrained professional had performed the procedure on them. Female genital cutting is being practiced in Kerala was found on August 2017 by Sahiyo reporters. Apart from the mental trauma, the women also said it also led to physical complications. \n\nOn May 9, 2017 the Supreme Court of India sought a response from the Centre and four states (Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan) on the validity of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) when Public Interest Litigation by some Bohra women to ban the practice. On July 9, 2018, Attorney General of India K. K. Venugopal reiterated the Indian government's position that FGM was a violation of a person's fundamental rights and that its practice resulted in serious health complications for the girl concerned.\n\nFemale genital mutilation Type I and IV is prevalent in Indonesia; 97.5% of the surveyed females from Muslim families (Muslim females are at least 85% of females in Indonesia) are mutilated by age 18 (55 million females as of 2018). In certain communities of Indonesia, mass female circumcision (\"khitanan massal\") ceremony are organized by local Islamic foundations around Prophet Muhammad’s birthday. Some FGM are Type IV done with a pen knife, others are Type I done with scissors. Two Indonesian nationwide studies in 2003 and 2010 found over 80% of the cases sampled involved cutting, typically of newborns through the age of 9. The surveys demonstrated that circumcision among girls and boys is a universal practice in the study sites, in all of which Islam was the primary religion. Across the sites, among all the children aged 15–18, 86-100% of the girls were reported already circumcised. More than 90% of families visited in the studies claimed they wanted the practice to continue.\n\nHistorical records suggest female circumcision in Indonesia started and became prevalent with the arrival of Islam in the 13th century as part of its drive to convert people to Islam. In islands of Indonesia, where partial populations converted to Islam in the 17th century, FGM has been prevalent in Muslim females only. In 2006, FGM was banned by the government but FGM/C remained commonplace for women in Indonesia - the world’s largest Muslim nation. In 2010, the Indonesian Health Ministry issued a decree outlining the proper procedure for FGM, which activists claim contradicted the 2006 ruling prohibiting clinics from performing any FGM.\n\nIn 2013, the Indonesian Ulema Council ruled that it favors FGM, stating that although it is not mandatory, it is still “morally recommended”. The Ulema has been pushing Indonesian government to circumcise girls, claiming it is part of Islamic teachings. Some Indonesian officials, in March 2013, claimed cutting and pricking type circumcision is not FGM. In 2014 the government criminalized all forms of FGM after it repealed exceptions to the laws.\n\nAccording to 2016 report by UNICEF, 49% of Indonesian girls of age below 14 had already undergone FGM/C by 2015.\n\nFemale genital mutilation Type I is prevalent in Malaysia, where 93% of females from Muslim families (about 9 million females) in an unpublished study have been mutilated. It is widely considered as a female sunnah tradition (\"sunat perempuan\"), typically in the old days done by midwife (\"mak bidan\") and now by medical physician. It is either a minor prick or cutting off a small piece of the highest part of clitoral hood and foreskin (Type I). Malaysian women claim religious obligation (82%) as the primary reason for female circumcision, with hygiene (41%) and cultural practice (32%) as other major motivators for FGM prevalence. \n\nMalaysia is a multicultural society, FGM is prevalent in Muslim community, and not observed in its minority Buddhist and Hindu communities. Malaysia has no laws in reference to FGM. The Malaysian government sponsored 86th conference of Malaysia’s Fatwa Committee National Council of Islamic Religious Affairs held in April 2009 decided that female circumcision is part of Islamic teachings and it should be observed by Muslims, with the majority of the jurists in the Committee concluding that female circumcision is obligatory (\"wajib\"). The \"fatwa\" noted harmful circumcision methods are to be avoided. In 2012, Malaysian government health ministry proposed guidelines to reclassify and allow female circumcision as a medical practice.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced in Maldives. Maldives' Attorney General Husnu Suood claims FGM was eradicated from Maldives by the 1990s, but the practice of female circumcision in Maldives is reviving because of Islamic fatwas from religious scholars in Maldives who preach that it as compulsory. Religious leaders have renewed their calls for FGM in 2014.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced among some Pakistani communities, according to sources dated to the 1990s and 2000s. Gibeau reports, for example, FGM is widespread in Bohra Muslims of Pakistan. The Sheedi Muslim community of Pakistan, considered to be of Arab-African origins, practice FGM. The practice is also found in Muslim communities near Pakistan's Iran-Balochistan border.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is prevalent in parts of the Philippines. The communities that practice FGM call it \"Pag-Sunnat\", sometimes \"Pag-Islam\", and include Tausugs of Mindanao, Yakan of Basilan and other Muslim communities of Philippines. FGM is typically performed on girls between a few days old and age 8. Type IV FGM with complications has been reported.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced by the Malay Muslim community in Singapore.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced by the Muslim minority in Sri Lanka.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practised by the Muslim population in the south of Thailand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36323816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36323816", "title": "Prevention of Blindness Trust", "text": "Prevention of Blindness Trust\n\nPrevention of Blindness Trust, also known as the \"POB Trust\" and \"POB\", is a project of Pakistan Islamic Medical Association.\nPOB Trust was established and registered by Trust Act in July, 2007 as a leading volunteer eye care organization with the sole mission of preventing blindness and preserving sight. \nPOB Trust was declared exempted from tax in 2012 by Federal Board of Revenue (Pakistan) \nPOB Trust endeavors to develop strategies for prevention and control of blindness and visual impairment. The prime objective of POB Trust is to promote and sustain a global campaign against all forms of avoidable blindness with emphasis on deprived communities. This initiative brings with it a great challenge and an exciting hope for all who work towards this goal. It is also a member of the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness for the VISION 2020: The Right to Sight.\n\nThe POB Trust was registered in 2007, but the organization had been working in the field from 2005. Until May 2015, approximately US$56 million had been spent on its projects of free eye care services involving 115,194 Cataract Surgeries of patients in 20 countries. POB Trust have been working in many areas:\n\nPOB Trust organizes free eye camps in remote areas of the country. Every camp lasts for 2 to 4 days according to the location. During each free eye camp 1000-3000 patients are screened for cataracts and if diagnosed, they are referred for diagnostic tests including Hepatitis B,C Screening. Tests are performed free of cost in the camp. After passing these test patient goes towards surgery, and about 100-300 patients undergo the surgery in three days. Cataract-surgeries are done with Intra-ocular Lens implantation with small incision & Phaco-emulsification. In the out-patients reading glasses and eye drops are also distributed.\n\nFrom 2005 to September 2016, the trust has achieved the following milestones:\n22 countries in Asia and Africa\n659 free eye camps\nOver one million, one hundred and fifty-seven thousand, nine hundred and thirty-six patients examined & treated.\nOver 124,526 operations with free lens implantation. (Mostly Cataract surgeries)\nOver 1 millions pairs of reading-glasses distributed.\n\nPOB Trust worked in shared projects with many other organizations like International Islamic Relief Organization (IIRO), Akhwat, UK Islamic Mission, Al Khidmat Foundation, FIMA Save Vision, Pak Trust UK, Helping Hand for Relief & Development, and with Ministry of Health Pakistan.\n\n7 kilometers Main Raiwind Road, Lahore\n\nGulistan e Johar, Karachi\n\nPOB Trust activities during this period were based in 20 countries, as follows:\n\nSudan, Chad, Somalia, Somali land, \nNigeria,\nMali, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Burkina Faso, Niger, Indonesia, Cameroon, Morocco, Zimbabwe, Gambia, Gaza Palestine, Bangladesh, South Africa, Maldives and Pakistan\n\n1. Richard and Hinda Rosenthal award from The Rosenthal Family Foundation is given to Dr. Pervaiz Malik on Prevention of Blindness Services recognition. Date is 24 April 2009.\n2. Pakistan Society of Ophthalmology award in 2011 (see category 'OSP PICO Gold Medal on page 3)\n3. Asia Pacific Academy of Ophthalmology Outstanding service in prevention of blindness Award \n\n1. Prevalence of Refractive Errors in a public school children of Lahore <br>\n2. Private Public Mix Working Model of a Teaching Hospital, Benefits for the Organizations and End users\n"}
{"id": "34098441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34098441", "title": "Racerunning", "text": "Racerunning\n\nRacerunning is an athletic discipline for disabled athletes or 'racerunners'. Athletes use a running bike, a three-wheeled frame with a saddle, body support and most notably, no pedals. Athletes run over distances similar to other track and road running disciplines; 100, 200, 400, 800metres as well as 10kilometres, half and full marathons.\n\nThe sport of racerunning was founded in Denmark in 1991 by Paralympian Connie Hansen and present international racerunning coordinator Mansoor Siddiqi.\n"}
{"id": "16075960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16075960", "title": "Remote Area Medical", "text": "Remote Area Medical\n\nRemote Area Medical Volunteer Corps (RAM) is a non-profit provider of mobile medical clinics delivering free dental, vision, and medical care (as well as veterinary services when available) to under-served and uninsured individuals.\n\nRAM was founded in 1985 by Englishman Stan Brock, who worked as an assistant to Marlin Perkins on \"Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom\". RAM's work was originally confined to Third World countries, but it later shifted towards the US. Today RAM works domestic operations around the United States and internationally when need arises.\n\nThe clinic in Wise, Virginia was recently recognized as the nation's largest pop-up free clinic. The 2017 clinic in Wise hosted over 1,000 volunteers and served 2,300 men and women.\n\nRAM completed its 900th clinic in Knoxville Tennessee in 2018.\n\nRAM were featured on an episode of \"60 Minutes\" on CBS.\n\nOn March 31, 2014, Remote Area Medical's headquarters moved from an old school building in Knox County to the previous Henniges Automotive facility in Blount County. The previous school building was utilized by RAM for 19 years and was rented by the organization for $1 a year from Knox County.\n\nRAM is funded through donations and relies on volunteers from the community, as well as professionals including physicians, dentists, optometrists, nurses, pilots and veterinarians to provide care in poorer communities.\n\nRemote Area Medical's Veterinary Program provides animal health services to those who live in underserved, impoverished, and isolated communities.\n\nRemote Area Medical's Disaster Relief arm responds to disasters by land, sea, and air, delivering medical relief and other humanitarian aid when needed.\n\nIn 2017 Rep. John J. Duncan Jr., R-Knoxville, filed a bill that would provide $1 million to any state that allows licensed medical professionals to travel from other states and offer their services to those in need. The money would be a one-time allocation with the intent to help states pay any costs associated with allowing outside doctors to volunteer within their borders. The legislation, called the Healthier Act, specifies that out-of-state medical personnel could work only at weekend clinics. That would prevent them from moving into a state and setting up a permanent or semi-permanent practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "41801244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41801244", "title": "RxList", "text": "RxList\n\nRxList, founded in 1995 by a pharmacist, is an online medical resource of US prescription medications providing full prescribing information and patient education. \n\nRxList is an owned and operated site in the WebMD Consumer Network and was acquired by WebMD in December 2004. \n\nRxList provides content written by pharmacists and physicians and data provided by credible sources like the FDA, Cerner Multum, and First Data Bank, Inc..\n\nRxList, as part of the WebMD Consumer Network, adheres to the same privacy policy as WebMD.com and is certified by the TRUSTe online privacy certification program. \n\nRxList is ranked #14 in the January 2014 eBizMBA Top 15 Most Popular Health Websites. \n\n"}
{"id": "7053390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7053390", "title": "Sisters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul", "text": "Sisters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul\n\nThe Sisters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul were founded on May 11, 1849, when the four founding Sisters of Charity arrived in Halifax, Nova Scotia, from New York City; this has been designated a National Historic Event.\n\nThe story of the Canadian foundation begins when four American ladies, black-robed, black-capped, landed in Halifax from the Cunard liner \"Cambria\" on May 11, 1849. They came from New York City, these first Sisters of Charity, in response to a standing request by Bishop William Walsh of Halifax to his friend Archbishop John Hughes of New York for Sisters to work in his diocese in the care of orphans and in education. Halifax had a population of 20,000 when the four \"American ladies\" arrived. The Bishop gave them a house on Barrington Street, near the cathedral, where they took in a little orphan girl on the very first day. They immediately opened a school to teach Catholic children, many of them Irish immigrants, victims of the potato famine. By the end of the school year (July) their classes held 400 children. By that time the Sisters were also caring for twenty little girls in their own house.\n\nThey would be the first religious community in this maritime city. Mother Basilia McCann, leader of the original four Sisters who arrived here in 1849, became the first Superior of the Halifax Congregation. Mother Basilia was a pupil of Elizabeth Seton, founder of the first Sisters of Charity in 1809. She served as Superior for three years, then returned to the New York community. The second Superior to serve in Halifax was Sister Mary Rose McAleer, also one of the original group to come to Halifax in 1849.\n\nShortly after their arrival the Sisters opened their first school, housed at St. Mary's Convent in the heart of the city. Halifax was still a growing city, and with no hospital yet established, the need for assistance spanned beyond education. The Sisters responded to this need. Within a short time they were also caring for the sick.\n\nBy 1856, the order in Halifax was accepted as a separate congregation by Pope Pius IX and took on their new official name, the \"Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, Halifax.\" Sister Mary Rose McAleer and two novices began teaching girls in St. Patrick's Parish in the North end of the city. At first they travelled daily to teach in the church basement. A house was soon rented for them, and thus began St. Patrick's Convent – and High School and Elementary School. St. Patrick's was the first of more than a hundred missions that would eventually be opened by the Sisters of Charity. When St Patrick’s moved to larger quarters in 1888, the former convent was converted into a refuge for unmarried mothers and their babies, named the Home of the Guardian Angel.\n\nIn 1866 victims of cholera were landed from an immigrant ship on McNab's Island in the harbour and when the Archbishop asked for helpers, all the Sisters volunteered. He chose three. That summer the increase in the number of orphans led to expansion of facilities. By September 1873, the Sisters moved into the newly built Motherhouse named Mount Saint Vincent.just outside Halifax. \n\nSisters from the order first came to Boston, Massachusetts, in August 1887, called to staff a new school for girls at St. Patrick’s Parish in Roxbury.\n\nOn April 30, 1880, Leo XIII issued a document removing from the Archbishop of Halifax \"any jurisdiction\" he had held over the Sisters of Charity, and placing the Congregation under the Pope's immediate control.\n\nThe order founded Canada's best known women's university, now co-educational, Mount Saint Vincent University in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Mount Saint Vincent received its own college charter in 1925. A long tradition ended in 2006 when Sister Sheilagh Martin, a chemistry professor, retired as the last member of the congregation to teach there.\n\nThey came to British Columbia in the 1920s, founding Seton Academy, Vancouver (1923).\n\nThe charism of the Sisters of Charity of Halifax is rooted in the tradition of Saints Elizabeth Ann Seton, Vincent de Paul, and Louise de Marillac.\n\nThe areas of education, health care, pastoral ministry, and social services are still paramount, though the ways in which the sisters work within a given field has changed. While the congregation once operated hospitals, schools, senior citizen homes, and the only women's university in Canada, sisters now serve in a variety of areas in Canada and throughout the eastern United States, in Bermuda, Peru, and the Dominican Republic.\n\nIn 1975, at the beatification of Saint Elizabeth Ann Seton, there were approximately 1700 sisters in the organization and 97 missions. Today, there are approximately 500 sisters\n\nThe headquarters of the religious institute is located in Halifax's Rockingham neighbourhood at the Sisters of Charity Centre. The original Motherhouse building, which also incorporated Mount Saint Vincent Academy and College (the precursors to the current University) was built around the time of the Academy's founding in 1873 and destroyed by fire in 1951. Rebuilt separately in the early 1950s, it housed retired sisters of the order as well as visiting religious and laypeople. It also housed for Mount Saint Vincent University a student residence called Vincent Hall until the residence was closed by the University in 1992. The building, once the largest in all of Atlantic Canada, was demolished in 2008. In 2011 the property was sold to developer Southwest Propoerties, Ltd. The first phase of the development includes residential and retail components. The development is to be known as Seton Ridge.\n\nThe order is part of the Sisters of Charity Federation. Two growing interests for the order are ecological projects and helping victims of human trafficking, issues they are working on with the Leadership Conference of Women Religious. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8007767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8007767", "title": "Subacromial bursitis", "text": "Subacromial bursitis\n\nSubacromial bursitis is a condition caused by inflammation of the bursa that separates the superior surface of the supraspinatus tendon (one of the four tendons of the rotator cuff) from the overlying coraco-acromial ligament, acromion, and coracoid (the acromial arch) and from the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. The subacromial bursa helps the motion of the supraspinatus tendon of the rotator cuff in activities such as overhead work.\n\nMusculoskeletal complaints are one of the most common reasons for primary care office visits, and rotator cuff disorders are the most common source of shoulder pain.\n\nPrimary inflammation of the subacromial bursa is relatively rare and may arise from autoimmune inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis; crystal deposition disorders such as gout or pseudogout; calcific loose bodies, and infection. More commonly, subacromial bursitis arises as a result of complex factors, thought to cause shoulder impingement symptoms. These factors are broadly classified as intrinsic (intratendinous) or extrinsic (extratendinous). They are further divided into primary or secondary causes of impingement. Secondary causes are thought to be part of another process such as shoulder instability or nerve injury.\n\nIn 1983 Neer described three stages of impingement syndrome. He noted that \"the symptoms and physical signs in all three stages of impingement are almost identical, including the 'impingement sign'..., arc of pain, crepitus, and varying weakness\". The Neer classification did not distinguish between partial-thickness and full-thickness rotator cuff tears in stage III. This has led to some controversy about the ability of physical examination tests to accurately diagnose between bursitis, impingement, impingement with or without rotator cuff tear and impingement with partial versus complete tears.\n\nIn 2005, Park et al. published their findings which concluded that a combination of clinical tests were more useful than a single physical examination test. For the diagnosis of impingement disease, the best combination of tests were \"any degree (of) a positive Hawkins–Kennedy test, a positive painful arc sign, and weakness in external rotation with the arm at the side\", to diagnose a full thickness rotator cuff tear, the best combination of tests, when all three are positive, were the painful arc, the drop-arm sign, and weakness in external rotation.\n\nSubacromial bursitis often presents with a constellation of symptoms called impingement syndrome. Pain along the front and side of the shoulder is the most common symptom and may cause weakness and stiffness. If the pain resolves and weakness persists other causes should be evaluated such as a tear of the rotator cuff or a neurological problem arising from the neck or entrapment of the suprascapular nerve. The onset of pain may be sudden or gradual and may or may not be related to trauma. Night time pain, especially sleeping on the affected shoulder, is often reported. Localized redness or swelling are less common and suggest an infected subacromial bursa. Individuals affected by subacromial bursitis commonly present with concomitant shoulder problems such as arthritis, rotator cuff tendinitis, rotator cuff tears, and cervical radiculopathy (pinched nerve in neck).\n\nImpingement may be brought on by sports activities, such as overhead throwing sports and swimming, or overhead work such as painting, carpentry, or plumbing. Activities that involve repetitive overhead activity, or directly in front, may cause shoulder pain. Direct upward pressure on the shoulder, such as leaning on an elbow, may increase pain.\n\nThe literature on the pathophysiology of bursitis describes inflammation as the primary cause of symptoms. Inflammatory bursitis is usually the result of repetitive injury to the bursa. In the subacromial bursa, this generally occurs due to microtrauma to adjacent structures, particularly the supraspinatus tendon. The inflammatory process causes synovial cells to multiply, increasing collagen formation and fluid production within the bursa and reduction in the outside layer of lubrication..\n\nLess frequently observed causes of subacromial bursitis include hemorrhagic conditions, crystal deposition and infection.\n\nMany causes have been proposed in the medical literature for subacromial impingement syndrome. The bursa facilitates the motion of the rotator cuff beneath the arch, any disturbance of the relationship of the subacromial structures can lead to impingement. These factors can be broadly classified as intrinsic such as tendon degeneration, rotator cuff muscle weakness and overuse. Extrinsic factors include bone spurs from the acromion or AC joint, shoulder instability and neurologic problems arising outside of the shoulder.\n\nIt is often difficult to distinguish between pain caused by bursitis or that caused by a rotator cuff injury as both exhibit similar pain patterns in the front or side of the shoulder. Subacromial bursitis can be painful with resisted abduction due to the pinching of the bursa as the deltoid contracts. If the therapist performs a treatment direction test and gently applies joint traction or a caudal glide during abduction (MWM), the painful arc may reduce if the problem is bursitis or adhesive capsulitis (as this potentially increases the subacromial space).\n\nThe following clinical tests, if positive, may indicate bursitis: \n\nIrritation or entrapment of the lower subscapular nerve, which innervates the subscapularis and teres major muscles, will produce muscle guarding at the shoulder that will restrict motion into external rotation, abduction, or flexion. The aforementioned tests will assist in diagnosing bursitis over other conditions. The diagnosis of impingement syndrome should be viewed with caution in people who are less than forty years old, because such individuals may have subtle glenohumeral instability.\n\nX-rays may help visualize bone spurs, acromial anatomy and arthritis. Further, calcification in the subacromial space and rotator cuff may be revealed. Osteoarthritis of the acromioclavicular (AC) joint may co-exist and is usually demonstrated on radiographs.\n\nMRI imagining can reveal fluid accumulation in the bursa and assess adjacent structures. In chronic cases caused by impingement tendinosis and tears in the rotator cuff may be revealed. At US, an abnormal bursa may show\nIn any case, the magnitude of pathological findings does not correlate with the magnitude of the symptoms.\n\nIn patients with bursitis who have rheumatoid arthritis, short term improvements are not taken as a sign of resolution and may require long term treatment to ensure recurrence is minimized. Joint contracture of the shoulder has also been found to be at a higher incidence in type two diabetics, which may lead to frozen shoulder (Donatelli, 2004).\n\nMany non-operative treatments have been advocated, including rest; oral administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; physical therapy; chiropractic; and local modalities such as cryotherapy, ultrasound, electromagnetic radiation, and subacromial injection of corticosteroids.\n\nShoulder bursitis rarely requires surgical intervention and generally responds favorably to conservative treatment. Surgery is reserved for patients who fail to respond to non-operative measures. Minimally invasive surgical procedures such as arthroscopic removal of the bursa allows for direct inspection of the shoulder structures and provides the opportunity for removal of bone spurs and repair of any rotator cuff tears that may be found.\n\nIn 1997 Morrison et al. published a study that reviewed the cases of 616 patients (636 shoulders) with impingement syndrome (painful arc of motion) to assess the outcome of non-surgical care. An attempt was made to exclude patients who were suspected of having additional shoulder conditions such as, full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, degenerative arthritis of the acromioclavicular joint, instability of the glenohumeral joint, or adhesive capsulitis. All patients were managed with anti-inflammatory medication and a specific, supervised physical-therapy regimen. The patients were followed up from six months to over six years. They found that 67% (413 patients) of the patients improved, while 28% did not improve and went to surgical treatment. 5% did not improve and declined further treatment.\n\nOf the 413 patients who improved, 74 had a recurrence of symptoms during the observation period and their symptoms responded to rest or after resumption of the exercise program.\n\nThe Morrison study shows that the outcome of impingement symptoms varies with patient characteristics. Younger patients (20 years or less) and patients between 41 and 60 years of age, fared better than those who were in the 21 to 40 years age group. This may be related to the peak incidence of work, job requirements, sports and hobby related activities, that may place greater demands on the shoulder. However, patients who were older than sixty years of age had the \"poorest results\". It is known that the rotator cuff and adjacent structures undergo degenerative changes with ageing.\n\nThe authors were unable to posit an explanation for the observation of the bimodal distribution of satisfactory results with regard to age. They concluded that it was \"unclear why (those) who were twenty-one to forty years old had less satisfactory results\". The poorer outcome for patients over 60 years old was thought to be potentially related to \"undiagnosed full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17200206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17200206", "title": "Vaccine bath", "text": "Vaccine bath\n\nA vaccine bath is an apparatus used in vaccine production. As vaccines are very heat labile but inevitably need to be heated to some extent, these devices are used. These are basically water baths, with a temperature set very low. A long time is taken to sterilize vaccines by this method.\n\nBacterial vaccine are sterilized at 60°C for an hour.\n"}
{"id": "50261695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50261695", "title": "Walsall Integrated Sexual Health Services", "text": "Walsall Integrated Sexual Health Services\n\nWalsall Integrated Sexual Health Services (WiSH) is a part of the UK National Health Service that provides sexual healthcare in the Walsall area of the UK. The services include the treatment and prevention of sexually transmitted infections, contraception and participation in the National Chlamydia Screening Programme. All services are free and confidential and are available to UK and European Community nationals regardless of age. Since 1 April 2013, Walsall Council (the Local Authority) has been responsible for commissioning the service as part of their public health responsibilities. The funding comes from their allocated public health grant from the UK government.\n\nThe service operates from clinics in central Walsall – The Centre for Sexual Health at Walsall Manor Hospital and WiSH in Navigation Street – and at Willenhall Health Centre, Pinfold Health Centre, Beechdale Health Centre and Darlaston Health Centre. An internet based postal-testing service is also available.\n"}
{"id": "41622664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41622664", "title": "Women's health nurse practitioner", "text": "Women's health nurse practitioner\n\nA women's health nurse practitioner (WHNP) is a nurse practitioner that specializes in continuing and comprehensive healthcare for women across the lifespan with emphasis on conditions unique to women from menarche through the remainder of their life cycle. \n\nFollowing educational preparation at the master's or doctoral level, WHNPs must become board certified by an approved certification body. Board certification must be maintained by obtaining continuing nursing education credits. In the US, board certification is provided through the National Certification Corporation (awards the WHNP-BC credential).\n\nWHNPs deliver a range of acute, chronic, and preventive healthcare services:\n\n"}
