{"id": "17337267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17337267", "title": "Asita", "text": "Asita\n\nAsita or Kaladevala was a hermit ascetic of ancient India in the 6th century BCE. He is best known for having predicted that prince Siddhartha of Kapilavastu would either become a great chakravartin or become a supreme religious leader; Siddhartha was later known as Gautama Buddha.\n"}
{"id": "11614760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11614760", "title": "Bhabra", "text": "Bhabra\n\nBhabra or Bhabhra is an ancient merchant community from Punjab region which mainly follows Jainism. Many Bhabra are Muslims.\n\nThe Bhabra community has had a close historical association with Jainism. It is believed to be connected with the Bhavadar or Bhavada Gachchha to which the legendary Jain Acharya Kalakacharya belonged to. They may have originated from the Bhabra town (32° 13' 30\": 73° 13'). Inscriptions suggest that Bhavada Gachchha had survived until the 17th century.\n\nJainism has been present in Punjab since ancient times. This is where Alexander the Great encountered Gymnosophists and Xuanzang met both Digambara and Swetambara monks.\n\nAccording to \"Shatrunjaya Mahatmya\" of Dhaneshwar Suri, Javad Shah of Taxila had restored Shatrunjaya Tirth and brought an idol of Lord Adinath from Taxila and installed it at Shatrunjaya.\n\nVaar 8 Pauri 12 of 24 of Vaaran Bhai Gurdas (1550-1620 CE) says: \"kaytarhiaan hee baaneeay kitarhay bhaabharhiaan suniaaray\", there are many traders and many Bhabras are goldsmiths.\n\nIn \"Romantic Tales from the Punjab\" Charles Swynnerton relates a folk tale about several girls. It mentions a girl being a Bhabra, and mentions them being strictly vegetarian.\n\nIn the 17th century, Fray Sebastien Manrique met them in Amritsar district. Their presence has been noted in the Mughal period, and in the 19th century\n\nThe original home region of the Bhabras is now in Pakistan. While practically all the Bhabras have left Pakistan region, many cities still have sections named after Bhabras.\n\n\nIn India they have been present at:\n\n\nIn modern Delhi, the majority of Jains in Rup Nagar area are from Punjab.\n\nThe famous Bhabra edict from Maurya period found in Rajasthan is unrelated to the Bhabra community.\n"}
{"id": "23889972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23889972", "title": "Bhapa", "text": "Bhapa\n\nBhapa or (Bhaapa) is a term used in Punjab by the members of the Sikh community in a pejorative sense for Sikhs that migrated from Pakistan after the Partition of India in 1947.\n\n\"Bhapa\" describes Sikhs who migrated to India, especially from the Rawalpindi area, also known as the Khukhrain's area, and its neighbouring regions. The Bhapa name at first was only associated with migrated Sikh traders/shopkeepers.\n\n\"Bhapa\" was a common term for the elder brother or father, and is still often used in that sense. It is somewhat equivalent of \"sir\". Derived from Sanskrit \"Bappa\" or \"Vapra\", it is cognate to \"Bawa\". The term has occasionally been used as a royal title in some regions of India. The best-known king with the title was Bappa Rawal, the founder of the Guhilot dynasty.\n"}
{"id": "1609486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1609486", "title": "Bible study (Christian)", "text": "Bible study (Christian)\n\nIn Christian communities, Bible study is the study of the Bible by ordinary people as a personal religious or spiritual practice. Some denominations may call this devotion or devotional acts; however in other denominations \"devotion\" has other meanings. \"Bible study\" in this sense is distinct from \"biblical studies\", which is a formal academic discipline.\n\nIn Evangelical Protestantism, the time set aside to engage in personal Bible study and prayer is sometimes informally called a Quiet Time. In other traditions personal Bible study is referred to as \"devotions\". Catholic devotions and Anglican devotions both employ the \"Lectio Divina\" method of Bible reading.\n\nChristians of all denominations may use study Bibles and Bible reading notes to assist them in their personal Bible studies. However, the use of such aids is discouraged in many churches, which advocate the simple reading of Bible passages. In some cases, the practice of reading through the entire Bible in a year is followed, this usually requires readings each day from both the Old and New Testament. This practice, however, has been widely criticized on the basis that the understanding gained of each specific passage is too vague.\n\nThe association of Bible study and prayer is an important one. Christians do not merely study the Bible as an academic discipline, but with the desire to know God better. Therefore, they frequently pray that God will give them understanding of the passage being studied. They also consider it necessary to consider what they read with an attitude of respect, rather than the critical attitude which is frequently followed in formal study. To them, the Bible is not just a sacred book, but is the very Word of God, that is, a message from God which has direct relevance to their daily lives.\n\nInductive Bible study is a means of studying and exegeting a biblical passage. Richard Krejcir describes it terms of \"interviewing a passage\" without preconceptions or agendas. Inductive Bible study involves examining the ideas and words of the text, which leads to the meanings and then the interpretations, which in turn lead the reader to conclusions and applications.\nIn inductive study, the reader will read a passage and then ask questions of how they personally interpret the verse(s). These questions can range from what the verse(s) literally means to how it applies to the believer's present personal circumstances. The purpose of these questions is to go deep enough into the text to extract the meaning and then to apply that gained knowledge to their personal life in order to create change for their own or other people's benefit.\n\nIn this type of study, the believer also goes beyond the surface value of the text. However, the purpose is not so much for personal application as gaining information. Exegetical study is used most often by pastors, theologians, writers, professors, and church leaders in order to prepare for sharing lessons with others. It is often categorized as advanced Bible study and is meant to extract the ideas found in the text for the primary purpose of teaching.\n\nBible study groups within congregations are sometimes known as cell groups, though many different names exist. The Bible is often studied in informal small groups, and groups within parachurch organizations. During these study times, groups will set their main topic to be biblical studies. Though there may exist some form of worship and prayer, the purpose of Bible study is to collectively grasp an understanding of God through His Word. These groups become small communities often sharing this personal journey to discovering the meaning of the passage.\n\nSome Churches encourage the formation of small groups while others form casually or due to shared interest or common circumstances (such as a singles small group or a newly wed couple group). These groups range from young children, normally middle school and up led by an adult, to elderly people. These groups can even interact with other small groups.\n\nIn recent years many successful church growth attribute the effectiveness of cell groups, groups can be formed based on age group e.g. youth, young adults etc., or by profile –singles, married couples, by gender male or female homogeneous grouping.\n\n\"Providentissimus Deus\", \"On the Study of Holy Scripture\", is an encyclical letter issued by Pope Leo XIII on 18 November 1893. In it, he reviewed the history of Bible study from the time of the Church Fathers to the present, spoke against the errors of the Rationalists and \"higher critics\", and outlined principles of scripture study and guidelines for how scripture was to be taught in seminaries. He also addressed the issues of apparent contradictions between the Bible and physical science, or between one part of scripture and another, and how such apparent contradictions can be resolved.\n\n\"Divino afflante Spiritu\", (\"Inspired by the Holy Spirit\"), is a papal encyclical letter issued by Pope Pius XII on 30 September 1943 calling for new translations of the Bible from the original languages, instead of the Latin Vulgate of Jerome, which was revised multiple times and had formed the textual basis for all Catholic vernacular translations until then. It inaugurated the modern period of Roman Catholic biblical studies by encouraging the study of textual criticism (or \"lower criticism\"), pertaining to text of the Scriptures themselves and transmission thereof (for example, to determine correct readings) and permitted the use of the historical-critical method (or \"higher criticism\"), to be informed by theology, Sacred Tradition, and ecclesiastical history on the historical circumstances of the text.\n\nThe general theme of the \"Word of God\" was covered by the Second Vatican Council in November 1965 in its Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation: Dei Verbum.\n\nThe 1992 Catechism of the Catholic Church describes principles of Bible Study in paragraphs 101-141 and other sections. For Catholics, the Word of God is not a \"dead letter\" but is incarnate and living. Christ must through the Holy Spirit open minds to understand the Scriptures.\n\n\"Verbum Domini\" () is a post-synodal apostolic exhortation issued by Pope Benedict XVI which deals with how the Catholic church should approach the Bible. He issued it following the XII Ordinary General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops, which had met in October 2008 to discuss \"The Word of God in the Life and Mission of the Church.\" \"Verbum Domini\" is dated September 30, 2010, for the Feast of St. Jerome, the patron saint of Biblical studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12367165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12367165", "title": "Caleb Fairley", "text": "Caleb Fairley\n\nCaleb Fairley (born October 21, 1973) is an American murderer from Gulph Mills, Pennsylvania. In September 1995, Fairley murdered Lisa Marie Manderach, aged 29, and her 19-month-old daughter Devon, when the two visited the Collegeville, Pennsylvania children's clothing store in which he worked.\n\nOn September 10, 1995, Fairley was working alone at Your Kidz & Mine, the Collegeville children's clothing store owned by his parents. Just before closing time, Lisa Marie Manderach (born September 30, 1965) and her daughter Devon (born February 4, 1994) entered the store. When Fairley realized that they were the only customers present, he locked the doors to the store. He then attempted to sexually assault Manderach. When she resisted him, he became enraged and strangled her to death. He also strangled Manderach's infant daughter. After the murder, he sexually assaulted Manderach's corpse, then went to an Electric Hellfire Club concert that he had been planning to attend that night.\n\nLisa Manderach had told her husband where she was going. When she did not return home, he contacted local police, who found her car parked outside the store. A search of Your Kidz & Mine revealed stacks of pornography stained with what appeared to be blood and long black hairs consistent with Manderach's. Similar hairs were found in the store's vacuum cleaner. Also present was a large damp spot on the carpet that was later determined to be saliva. The police also noted that peepholes had been drilled into the dressing rooms. Fairley was charged on September 12, 1995 with the murders of the mother and daughter.\n\nWhen police questioned Fairley, he was wearing a thick coat of makeup on his face. When detectives told him to wipe it off, his face was covered with scratch marks. When they were pointed out to Fairley by authorities, he said he received them in a mosh pit while attending an Electric Hellfire Club concert, at a local club called the Asylum.\n\nWhen hikers discovered Devon Manderach's strangled body dumped on a hill at Valley Forge National Park, Fairley was charged with two counts of murder and one count of abusing a corpse. Fairley entered a plea bargain in which prosecutors would not seek the death penalty if he would show them the location of Lisa Manderach's body.\n\nFairley was tried in April 1996 and convicted on two counts of first-degree murder.\n\nOn July 24, 1996, Montgomery County Court judge William Carpenter handed down the maximum sentence, two consecutive life terms without chance of parole. He is currently incarcerated at State Correctional Institution – Fayette in LaBelle, Pennsylvania.\n\nResidents of Limerick, Pennsylvania, raised more than $250,000 over a two-year period to create the Manderach Memorial Playground in honor of Lisa and Devon Manderach; it was dedicated on September 12, 1998.\n\nThe Court TV crime documentary series \"Forensic Files\" reported on the evidence directly linking Fairley to the murders in the season 6, episode 30 \"Shopping Spree\", which aired December 10, 2001.\n"}
{"id": "55826724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55826724", "title": "California Institute for Yiddish Culture and Language", "text": "California Institute for Yiddish Culture and Language\n\nThe California Institute for Yiddish Culture and Language (CYCL) started in 1999 and serves as a multi-generational center for the teaching, promotion, celebration and learning of Yiddish in all of its embodiments, with an emphasis on the arts and other areas that influence the cultural formations that inform its existence. The institute owes its establishment to Miriam Koral, who is the Founding Director, and who, as a Yiddish instructor at UCLA and native Yiddish speaker, created the center and community that brings world-renowned Yiddish authors, playwrights, musicians, poets, artists and others to the Los Angeles area. \n"}
{"id": "2618131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2618131", "title": "Chausathi Jogini Temple (Odisha)", "text": "Chausathi Jogini Temple (Odisha)\n\nChausathi Jogini Mandir (64 Joginis Temple)() is situated in a hamlet called Hirapur, 20 km outside Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha state of Eastern India.\n\nThe temple is believed to be built by the Queen Hiradevi of Bramha dynasty during the 9th century.\n\nIt's built in a circular fashion, completely put together with blocks of sand stone. The inside of the circular wall has cavities, each housing the statue of a Goddess. There are around 56 such idols, made of black granite, inscribed within the wall cavities, centring on the main idol which is the Goddess Kali, who stands on a human head representing the triumph of the heart over the mind. The temple houses a central altar (Chandi Mandapa) which has the remaining 8 Goddess idols on all 4 sides. Some historians believe that an idol of Maha Bhairava was worshiped in the Chandi Mandapa.\n\n64 Joginis Temple is a tantric temple, with hypaethral architecture as tantric prayer rituals involve worshiping the \"bhumandala\" (environment consisting all the 5 elements of nature - fire, water, earth, sky and ether).\n\nThe legend behind the temple according to local priests is of the Goddess Durga taking the form of 64 demi-goddesses in order to defeat a demon. After the fight the 64 goddesses (Joginis) asked Durga to commemorate them in the form of a temple structure.\n\nThe Jogini idols are generally representing a female figurine standing on an animal, a demon or a human head depicting the victory of Shakti (Feminine power). The idols express everything from rage, sadness, pleasure, joy, desire and happiness.\n\nSuch temples are also seen at Ranipur-Jharial site of the Balangir district in Odisha and seven other places in India.\n\nThe number 64 finds its reference in Hindu mythology in various forms viz Kālá for time, Kalā for performing arts etc.\nThe temple complex is maintained by Archaeological Survey of India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4722479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4722479", "title": "Christian naturism", "text": "Christian naturism\n\nChristian naturism is the practise of naturism or nudism by Christians. This form of naturism is not to be confused with what Durkheim termed \"naturism\" as an explanation for the origin of religion in which the forces of nature form the origin of religion.\n\nNaturism is the practice of recreational social nudity in a natural environment, such as at a beach, lake, or in a forest or other wilderness area. It is not certain that Christian naturism exists in any formal organisations, however, there are informal (mostly online) networks of Christians who practise naturism.\n\nMany of the early protagonists of naturism were Christians. For example, authors such as Ilsley Boone, Henry S. Huntington and Elton Raymond Shaw were writers of books on naturism and on Christianity. The dean of St Paul's Cathedral, the Very Revd William Inge, known as Dean Inge, offered support to the cause of naturists in his support of the publishing of Maurice Parmelee's book, \"The New Gymnosophy: Nudity and the Modern Life\". Dean Inge was also critical of town councillors who were insisting that bathers wear full bathing costumes.\n\nMany Christian naturists have very little disagreement with the core beliefs of long-established churches, and may even be members. They feel the error of mandatory dress is cultural, rather than anything related to salvation. Nor is such an error unprecedented. For example, in the 20th century, churches largely abandoned any teaching which promoted racial separation and segregation. Likewise, Christian naturists perceive a gap between scripture and Victorian era modesty (which to some extent is still observed today).\n\n\nChristian naturists view the story of the Garden of Eden as a model for their beliefs. They see Adam and Eve being in the blameless state that God had intended them to be. God knew that they were naked, as this was how he had created them, in His image. It is also the main scripture where their interpretation disagrees with denominations where clothing is required. When Adam and Eve were created and placed in the garden as a couple by God, they were both naked and \"felt no shame.\" () Although in the English of today \"naked\" often \"does\" imply shame or lewdness, when the King James Version was released in 1611, \"naked\" (Germanic), and \"nude\" (Latin) were synonymous. No major English translation of the Bible uses \"nude\" in Genesis 2:25.\n\nEven before Eve's creation, God had warned Adam \"...but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat of it you will surely die.\" () Despite God's warning, first Eve, then Adam, eat the forbidden fruit after being persuaded by the devil in the form of a serpent. () After doing so, they realize that they are naked, and sew fig leaves together as coverings in a futile attempt to hide their loss of innocence.\n\nShortly thereafter, Adam and Eve hear God walking in the garden, which results with them fearfully hiding among the trees. God queries Adam, \"\"Where are you?\" In spite of the fig leaves, Adam replies that he is afraid because of his nakedness. God further asks Adam, \"Who told you that you were naked?\"\" Only God, Adam, Eve, and the devil are a party to this matter, as there are no other humans on the planet at this time. Therefore, Christian naturists believe it was the devil who told Adam and Eve that they were naked. Their shame was not of God; nor would the fig leaves cover this shame, regardless of their genitals being covered. God was displeased not only by their disobedience of eating the forbidden fruit, but also with Adam and Eve's subsequent attempt to cover up their bodies.\n\nChristian naturists maintain the fig leaves were worn in a futile attempt to hide what the couple had done from God—not each other, noting they were married, and equally guilty of the same original sin. The second sin was to cover parts of the body. The devil had chosen the sexual organs as the area of shame because, unlike God, he has no ability to create life. As the next chapter begins with Adam and Eve engaging in appropriate marital sexual relations, they conclude the couple would have seen each other naked subsequent to the fall of mankind.\n\nHaving thus sinned, and no longer living nude by their own accord, God expels them from the Garden of Eden. He also made more durable and protective garments from animal skins to replace the fig leaves before sending them out among the thorns.\n\nThere are other references to nudity in the Bible, such as:\n\n' and ' Then Jesus said to his disciples: \"Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more important than food, and the body more important than clothes?\"\n\nGospel of Thomas Although no major Christian group accepts this book as canonical or authoritative (its translation was unavailable until the 20th century), it relates a conversation between Jesus and his disciples:\n\nChristians commemorate four pivotal events in Jesus' life; in each of these events Jesus was naked.:\n\nThe story of the birth of Jesus is told in the gospels of Matthew and\nLuke. The Christian doctrine of incarnation holds that the second person of the Trinity \"became flesh\" by being conceived in the womb of Mary, and came into the world naked just like every other human being.\n\nJesus was baptised by John the Baptist in the River Jordan Jesus was almost certainly naked when he was baptised. The early Christian liturgy of baptism required those being baptised to be completely naked.\n\nJesus was crucified after being stripped of his clothes by the executioners\nIn the Synoptic Gospels the women who came to the tomb to anoint Jesus' body found only an angel or a youth or two men; all were wearing white or dazzling garments. In John's gospel it is stated that Jesus' grave clothes were left in the tomb there are also two angels in white in contrast to the Synoptic Gospels Jesus is also there, however no mention is made of Jesus wearing any dazzling white robes, instead Mary Magdalene mistakes Jesus for the gardener. It is likely that after his resurrection Jesus emerged from the tomb naked.\n\nDespite the aforementioned beliefs, there are three areas in which Christian naturists may feel nudity is condemned by the Bible:\n\n\nIn addition, there are certain requirements in the Old Testament where those\nperforming priestly duties were made to wear linen undergarments (). For most Christians, this ritual, and many others were superseded by the New Testament. However, some denominations of the Latter Day Saint movement wear a temple garment. (This is not necessarily limited to temple worship, but may include all or most activities during the day.) Regarding the Jewish faith, the Temple in Jerusalem has not been rebuilt since its destruction by the Romans during the siege in 70 AD.\n\nIf parents forbid children to ever be seen nude outside of their own family, generally such a prohibition begins within the months or years leading up to the age of reason or accountability. The exact age and circumstances may vary by denomination and culture. Quite the opposite of what Christian naturists believe, non-naturists (whether Christian or not), may feel that if children were to see others nude and be seen nude themselves, that is precisely what would cost them their innocence. See also the article: Nudity and children.\n\nIn the U.S., a few resorts have chapels (permanent or makeshift) on their grounds for the purpose of providing worship services:\n\nIn the naturist village of Heliopolis on the Île du Levant, France there is a chapel for Christian worship.\n\nWhile not actually a position of the Religious Society of Friends (or Quakers), naturism was the accepted norm for a time in one of their camps for children and teens. The camps started in 1939 and sometime in the 1950s naturism among the coed campers was the norm for such activities as swimming, sauna and other appropriate activities. This practice was abandoned in the mid-2000s due to concerns about maintaining a safe and comfortable environment for the campers.\n\nThe founder of the Quaker camps (Farm and Wilderness Camps in Vermont) wrote in his book entitled \"As Sparks Fly Upward\":\n\nBy far, the most frequent biblical argument against Christian naturism is that if God approved of people being nude, he would not have clothed Adam and Eve after they sinned, thus making it a reminder to man that we had, in fact, sinned. The counter-argument is Adam and Eve had already clothed themselves upon sinning, and God merely replaced the fig leaves with animal skins in granting them free will.\n\nDue to cultural tendencies to equate nudity with sex, many Christian denominations and groups are not supportive of naturism and nudism. Such groups may feel that the temptation of lust is too difficult. Christian naturists counter that the notion of Christians being unable to avoid lust where \"non-sexualized\" nudity is present has no scriptural basis whatsoever. Furthermore, they believe Christ has given mankind the power to avoid sin.\n\nChristian naturists have been criticized for being nude around non-Christians (in the sense that some contact between Christians and non-believers takes place), given that they might have no inhibitions against lust and other carnal sin. The best way to avoid such lust, naturists believe, is to live nude and be accustomed to bodies of various shapes, ages, and ethnicities in a non-sexualized setting. Furthermore, virtually all sexual abuse of minors, and rape among adults is initiated while both offender and victim are dressed. Other believers contend that nowhere does Scripture state the need to practice nudism to prevent lust. Naturists counter Scripture never speaks of both lust and the need for clothing in proximity to one another, either.\n\nIn , Paul speaks of the need for women to wear a head covering. However, it only applies to prayer and prophecy, and says nothing about covering the rest of the human body. Conversely, according to the passage, men must \"not\" have their heads covered. This due to man being the image and glory of God, and should not cover his head, as that would be figuratively covering the glory of God. The woman covers her head as she is the glory of man, and the glory of man ought to be covered when in the presence of God. Today, many Western churches which are non-naturist do not require women to cover their heads in church.\n\nIn , Paul urged the women in the Christian church to dress modestly, with \"decency and propriety\". Critics contend it is in contrast to the beliefs of Christian naturism that the apostle urges them to dress at all. Christian Naturists counter that Paul was disallowing outlandish and/or expensive clothing (which is prohibited in Christian Naturism as well), and not referring to those who choose not to dress.\n\nOther criticism, while it may not oppose naturism \"per se\", is concerned that it will hinder witnessing, divide spouses, promote secrecy to prevent embarrassment, excommunication, etc. As a result, some Christian naturists are isolated from other Christians and their churches. In their effort to find fellowship, many have formed local fellowships, while others are still accepted by their own church groups even though they are known as naturists.\n\n\nSeveral well-known organizations which specialize in new religious movements, including the Watchman Fellowship, Bob Larson Ministries, and the (John) Ankerberg Theological Research Institute have, to date, taken no official position on the beliefs of Christian naturism.\n\nA critique of Henri Blocher’s book \"In the Beginning\" is given by Del Lotta.\n\nOriginally, Jewish mikvahs, and later, early Christian baptisms were performed with individual naked. This included mass baptisms involving men, women, and children. They signified the participant's restoration to man's original sinless condition, having their sins blotted out. Others claim that children were baptized first, then men, then women, all separately.\n\nPublic bathing was the common practice through the time of Jesus and still occurs today in a few cultures, including the Turkish bath or \"hammam\", the Finnish sauna, Japanese onsen or Sentō, and the Korean Jjimjilbang. With the exception of the family-focused Finnish sauna, most public baths are gender-segregated today. Entire families took part in the public bath—including Christians. Jesus even preached at the public baths in Jerusalem.\n\nSome historic religious sects, both Christian and syncretist, have made nudism a general practice. Probably the best-known of these were the Adamites, though some of their beliefs were contrary to orthodox Christianity. The post-resurrection belief of the unclothed body being evil or sinful may originate in Platonic asceticism (founded largely on the works of ancient Greek philosopher Plato) which was adopted and passed down by \"Christian\" Platonists in early church history. Platonism is a dualistic theology which proposes a realm of forms to include, on the one hand, \"pure ideas\", which are good; and, on the other hand, \"matter\", which is evil. When applied to humans, the soul is necessarily good, and the body is necessarily evil. Therefore, according to this philosophy, our \"evil\" bodies must be covered by clothing. Christian naturists reject such notions as unbiblical.\n\nPlotinus (c. 204 – 270 AD) was a major philosopher of the ancient world who is widely considered the founder of Neo-Platonism (along with his teacher Ammonius Saccas). His metaphysical writings have inspired centuries of Pagan, Christian, Jewish, Islamic and Gnostic metaphysicians and mystics. About 150 years later, Saint Augustine (354-430 AD) was heavily influenced by the teaching of Plotinus. As one of the most important figures in the development of Western Christianity, St. Augustine strongly endorsed asceticism, which meant self-denial of worldly pleasure and total sexual abstinence. Eventually, this reached its peak in monasticism. Those pursuing a monastic life are usually called monks or brethren (brothers) if male, and nuns or sisters if female. While similar activities existed previously in pre-Christian times, early Christian monasticism attracted a large number of followers due to its enormous prestige and high social status in the period where the Roman Empire was near collapse. St. Augustine is one of the very few saints considered important not only by the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox religions, but by many Protestants as well (including Martin Luther and John Calvin). Christian Naturists do not believe that monasticism, along with its clothing requirements and isolation, is how Jesus taught us to live. If asceticism is practiced, it begins by living nude.\n\nBy the middle of the 19th century, Queen Victoria had come to power in the United Kingdom. The queen's influence was legendary, even spreading to other areas of Europe and America, which were outside of the British Empire. (Her ancestors were mainly German.) Due to previous sexual and other scandals of her predecessors in the House of Hanover, Queen Victoria placed a strong emphasis on her idea of morality and family values. For the first time, burgeoning middle classes could begin to identify with the reigning king or queen. At this point, it became quite unacceptable to be seen nude in public for whatever reason. Missionaries even brought clothing to various indigenous peoples who lived nude in humid, tropical climates. After her death in 1901, naturism and nudism began to emerge in northern Germany, and gradually spread elsewhere.\n\nIn the United States, the Christian naturism movement (which was the first naturism movement of any sort in the U.S.) began in the late 1920s. This occurred at nearly the same time as the start of the Great Depression, under the leadership of New Jersey Dutch Reformed minister Ilsley Boone. Initially, he was vice president of the American League for Physical Culture. By October 1931, Boone had taken over as president, and renamed the club as the \"American Sunbathing Association\" (ASA). Soon, naturism began expanding nationwide.\n\nIn Rome, Pope Pius XI strongly condemned the naturism movement throughout the early 1930s, calling it \"paganly immodest\". This prompted the head of the New York Legion of Decency, former New York Catholic Governor and presidential candidate Alfred E. Smith, to try to outlaw all nudism. A recent court ruling had declared private social nudity to be legal per current law. Eventually, their efforts failed in the state legislature. After Boone's passing in the late 1960s, the ASA became more secular, along with American society in general. In 1995, the ASA was renamed as the American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR), which currently has its headquarters in Florida.\n\nUntil the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) converted to co-ed facilities in the early 1960s, men and boys, including the swimming instructors, swam in a state of complete nakedness. Nylon was a relatively new invention at that time, and allowing cotton or wool swimsuits in the pool would increase the clogging of the filtration system. The word gymnasium means to train in the nude. This is derived from the standard practice of athletes who used to train and compete without any clothing (though it originates from pre-Christian Greece).\n\nPope John Paul II began his papacy in 1978, becoming the first non-Italian pope in four and a half centuries. His views on naturism differed substantially from that of his predecessors. Authoring the book Love and Responsibility (1981), he wrote: \"Nakedness itself is not immodest... Immodesty is present only when nakedness plays a negative role with regard to the value of the person, when its aim is to arouse concupiscence, as a result of which the person is put in the position of an object for enjoyment.\"\n\nWith the beginning of the modern internet in the mid-1990s, Christian Naturism became much more organized in the U.S. than ever before. The website Naturist-Christians.org founded in 1999 is the largest website devoted exclusively to Christian naturism. Annual Christian Nudist Convocations began early in the decade of the 2000s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37645176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37645176", "title": "Church of Greenland", "text": "Church of Greenland\n\nThe Church of Greenland, consisting of the Diocese of Greenland is the official Lutheran church in Greenland under the leadership of the Bishop of Greenland, currently being Sofie Petersen. The Church of Greenland is semi-independent from the Church of Denmark however it is still considered a diocese of the Church of Denmark. \n\nHistorically (before the Reformation) the Diocese of Greenland was known as the Diocese of Garðar. This ancient diocese fell into disuse in the 14th century with the death of Bishop Álfurin 1377. Nonetheless, bishops were still appointed up until 1537, though none of these ever made it to Greenland. From 1905 to 1923 Greenland was part of the now derelict Diocese of Zealand. From 1923 to 1993 it was part of the Diocese of Copenhagen. In 1980 a bishop was appointed for Greenland on behalf of the Bishop of Copenhagen. The Diocese was only re-established in 1993 when it was renamed as the Diocese of Greenland, independent from the Diocese of Copenhagen.\n\nThe Church of Greenland, in common with other institutions within the territory, is governed from Denmark, but with a large measure of autonomy. The Church of Greenland consists of a single diocese, which is part of the Danish church, but is moving towards full independence. In this respect it is following the example of the Church of the Faroe Islands, which is also a single diocese, and achieved full independence from the Church of Denmark in July 2007. On June 21, 2009, the Church of Greenland was taken over by the local government of Greenland, where both funding and legislation now falls under the government of Greenland as opposed to other dioceses in the Church of Denmark who fall under the authority of the Danish parliament. Nonetheless, the Church of Greenland is still a diocese of the Church of Denmark.\nIn common with other evangelical episcopal Lutheran churches, the Church of Greenland recognises the historic three-fold ministry of bishops, priests, and deacons; it acknowledges the two dominical sacraments of baptism and the eucharist; it provides liturgies for other rites including confirmation, marriage, ordination, confession, and burial; its faith is based on scripture, the ancient creeds of the Church, and the Augsburg Confession.\n\nIt is in full communion with the other Lutheran churches of the Nordic and Baltic states, and with the Anglican churches of the British Isles.\n\nThe clergy, who work with local parish councils, but are ordained and supervised by the bishop, work in a network of seventeen parishes, with churches and chapels across Greenland. Four senior priests hold the title of 'Dean' - one as Dean of the cathedral church, and three as Area Deans for the three deaneries, an administrative structure between the level of the diocese and that of the local parishes. \n\n"}
{"id": "36768465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36768465", "title": "Cihuatecayotl", "text": "Cihuatecayotl\n\nIn Aztec mythology, Cihuatecayotl (pronounced 'see-*wah-tey-kye-ottle') is the god of the West wind. His brothers are Mictlanpachecatl, Tlalocayotl, and Huitztlampaehecatl, who personify the winds from the north, east, and south respectively.\n\nZephyrus\n\nFavonius\n"}
{"id": "28247823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28247823", "title": "Cordoba Initiative", "text": "Cordoba Initiative\n\nFounded in 2004, the Cordoba Initiative is an Islamic organization, a multi-national, multi-faith organization dedicated to improving Muslim-West relations, the promoter of the controversial interfaith community center, called Cordoba House, later renamed Park51.\n\nThe initiative claims that the name Cordoba was chosen to symbolize the time in history when Muslims, Jews, and Christians ostensibly lived together in peace and harmony and created a prosperous center of intellectual, spiritual, cultural and commercial life in the city of Cordoba in al-Andalus. \n\nThe declared mission of the Cordoba Initiative, is improving Muslim-West relations. The site includes a section called “Voices of Moderation.” The Shariah Index Project, for example seeks to address:\n\nWhat is the right balance between the institutions of religious and political authority in the modern state? Should religion and governance be legally separated, or is there a way to integrate the two? What is meant by religious law, and can it be implemented without endangering basic human rights? The Shariah Index Project seeks to answer these questions in the context of present-day Muslim society. It provides this vision: \n• To demystify the notion, meaning and requirements of an Islamic state\n• To clarify the principles of Shariah in the context of modern society\n• To provide the general public, opinion leaders, and state officials in both the Muslim world and the West with tools for achieving these principles in practice.\n\n• The Initiative lists the following activities on their website: convening annual meetings of Islamic scholars, media appearances, lectures and publications, creating Cordoba House, shaping a strong and moderate Muslim-American community, building bridges with those of other faiths, combatting “Islamophobia”, and the Shariah Index Project, by which they say they will create a blueprint by which democracy will take place in the Muslim world. . It is best known for planning and advocating the proposed Islamic center known first as Cordoba House and later as Park51. Imam Feisal was first in charge of construction of the center.\n\nThe Cordoba Initiative is the vision of Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf. Imam Feisal brings together leaders across the Muslim-West divide to speak out for innovative, proactive, and positive solutions to shared challenges. In this capacity, Cordoba Initiative can provide novel solutions to those areas where conflict between Islamic and Western communities undermine local and global security. The Initiative has three officers: Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf, Chairman; John S. Bennett of the Aspen Institute; and Daisy Khan, the wife of Rauf.\n\nThe Cordoba Initiative is very closely affiliated with the American Society for Muslim Advancement (ASMA). ASMA currently serves as its fiscal agent, and the two organizations share infrastructure, space, utilities, vendor services, and co-sponsorship of programs.\n"}
{"id": "56129147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56129147", "title": "Decline of ancient Egyptian religion", "text": "Decline of ancient Egyptian religion\n\nThe decline of indigenous religious practices in ancient Egypt is largely attributed to the spread of Christianity in Egypt, and its strict monotheistic nature not allowing the syncretism seen between ancient Egyptian religion and other polytheistic religions, such as that of the Romans. Although religious practices within Egypt stayed relatively constant despite contact with the greater Mediterranean world, such as with the Persians, Greeks, and Romans, Christianity directly competed with the native religion. Even before the Edict of Milan in AD 313, which legalised Christianity in the Roman Empire, Egypt became an early centre of Christianity, especially in Alexandria where numerous influential Christian writers of antiquity such as Origen and Clement of Alexandria lived much of their lives, and native Egyptian religion may have put up little resistance to the permeation of Christianity into the province.\n\nEgyptian religion during the Pharaonic era had its roots in prehistory. For a period of nearly three millennia, Egypt largely assimilated any conquerors or invaders from outside of the country who had entered. Outside rulers such as the Hyksos did not have a significant impact either genetically nor culturally, and the state support of Egyptian religion rendered it essentially stable throughout the country’s ancient history. Despite this, specific towns and areas of Egypt usually placed varying emphasis on different gods, and most temples were dedicated to a specific god. This behaviour has led to Egyptian religion being labeled as more of a cult system than a completely homogeneous religion, but regardless, religion played a critical role in the life of every Egyptian.\n\nLikely the largest disruption of Egyptian religion prior to its actual downfall is the Amarna heresy, in which 18th dynasty pharaoh Amenhotep IV renamed himself Akhenaten and began a period of about 20 years during which Atenism became and was the official state religion of Egypt. Although initially henotheistic, the religion became monotheistic in Akhenaten’s ninth year as he declared Aten the sole god. Akhenaten also stressed the importance of himself as the son of Aten, and only him and his wife, Nefertiti, could directly worship Aten. The Egyptian people were to worship Akhenaten as an intermediary between the two.\nThis reform was hugely unpopular with the Egyptian populace, culminating in a campaign of damnatio memoriae by Horemheb and his immediate successors against Akhenaten and his family. The four kings succeeding Amenhotep III, ie Akhenaten, Smenkhkare, Tutankhamun, and Ay, were erased from Egyptian king lists; Horemheb ordered them to report that he was the direct successor of Amenhotep III.\n\nThe establishment of the 26th (Saite) Dynasty in 664 BC is traditionally considered to mark the beginning of the Egyptian Late Period. This era, lasting from 664 BC to 332 BC (the deposition of the final native pharaoh, Nectanebo II), apparently consisted of somewhat of a renewal of Egyptian culture, nationalism, and religion. Though Egypt experienced two separate invasions by the Achaemenid Empire, Persian rulers such as Cambyses II and Darius I respected Egyptian culture and religion and made no attempts to suppress it. Though Herodotus describes the Persian rule of Egypt as tyrannical and oppressive, and this is partly supported by conscription of Egyptians into the Persian army and some slavery by the Persian upper classes, religious practices specifically did not suffer. Egyptian admiral Wedjahor-Resne, serving under Cambyses, records in his autobiography that Cambyses respected tradition and observance of religious customs in Egypt. When Cambyses placed a garrison of troops nearby the Temple of Neith at Sais, Wedjahor-Resne convinced the king to move them, as their presence may have been viewed as sacrilegious by the gods.\n\nThe 30th Dynasty, the last native ruling dynasty of ancient Egypt, and indeed the last native rulers of the country for over 2,000 years, enabled Egyptian culture, religion, and art to flourish. Nectanebo I, the founder of this dynasty, became an accomplished builder. He worked on temples across the country and is responsible for initiating construction at the site of Philae. His grandson, Nectanebo II (who succeeded him after leading a military coup against the designated successor Teos), improved on this legacy and further established the dynasty as a time during which Egyptian culture thrived. The latter Nectanebo was thoroughly involved with religion and was quite enthusiastic for the cults of the gods, and art under his reign left a distinctive mark on the art of the Ptolemaic Kingdom. Nectanebo, though perhaps one of the more competent Egyptian kings of the Late Period, was ultimately unable to undo the centuries-long decline of the civilisation. Egypt would be conquered again by the Persians under Artaxerxes III around 343 or 342 BC, then by Alexander the Great nine years later. Although the deposition of Nectanebo II represents the end of Egyptian autonomy until the Egyptian Revolution of 1952, over two millennia later, the end of native hegemony over Egypt can in no way be considered the end of ancient Egyptian culture in the country.\n\nEgyptian religion initially came into contact with Graeco-Roman polytheism, which led to a large degree of syncretism rather than opposition. The cult of Isis spread first to the Hellenistic world in the Ptolemaic period after the conquests of Alexander the Great, and then to Italy and Rome. Though Augustus, after defeating Cleopatra and Mark Antony and annexing Egypt, disallowed statues to Isis and Serapis (another prominent god in Ptolemaic Egypt) within the pomerium, Egyptian deities nevertheless gradually became normalised in Roman religion and were considered by the emperors of the Flavian dynasty as patrons of their rule. In the second and third centuries AD, Isis and Serapis were worshipped in the majority of towns in even the western half of the empire, although they probably did not pervade the countryside. Temples to them exist from Palmyra in Syria to Londinium (modern-day London) in Britannia. In this way, Egyptian religion diffused into that of the Romans and enjoyed a wide range of worship all over the Mediterranean. Despite this, this intercultural diffusion almost certainly involved the modification (Hellenisation) of native Egyptian gods so that they were more palatable for converts. The form that Isis took among Greeks and Romans combined her Egyptian traits with Greco-Roman ideas.\n\nThe largest and oldest Christian church in Egypt, the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, credits its founding to Mark the Evangelist, AD 42. A considerable number of Jews resided in Egypt, and Alexandria specifically, with their residence in the country predating the first Christians by perhaps as long as 600 years. Scholars believe that downward social mobility of Jews in Roman Egypt made them more receptive to Christianity. In any case, Alexandrian Christianity began to grow rapidly starting from its very establishment. Under Pope Demetrius I, bishop from AD 189 to 231, Christianity spread through Egypt down the Nile, and increased its influence in the larger Church. Up until the Council of Chalcedon in AD 451, Alexandria was on par with Rome and Constantinopole as an influential Christian city.\n\nThe Emperor Diocletian viewed Christianity as disrupting traditional Roman religion (and thus a greater threat to the solidarity of the empire), so he initiated a severe persecution of Christianity to attempt to kerb its growth in the empire. Though this was not the first edict by an emperor against Christianity to affect Egypt (that being Septimius Severus in AD 202, when he dissolved the Catechetical School of Alexandria and forbade conversion to Christianity), the Diocletianic Persecution would be the acutest. In AD 303, Diocletian ordered all churches destroyed, sacred books burned, and enslaved all Christians who were not officials. This decree was in effect for three years, leading to the Era of Martyrs dating system later created by the Church of Alexandria, but many Egyptian Christians survived the persecution because they were instead sent to work in quarries and mines, as penal labour. Overall, however, the persecutions of Christianity were not successful anywhere in the Empire in ceasing its growth. Traditional religion was already beginning to suffer, even more so in Egypt, where Alexandria was an established and bustling centre for the religion.\n\nNative Egyptian religion clearly had at least a somewhat substantial effect on Graeco-Roman polytheism; in Egypt itself, however, native religion probably felt little other effect from the new pagan rulers, until the advent of Christianity. Although Augustus built new temples and repaired existing ones in Egypt, Roman religious involvement in the province appears to have peaked here. Later emperors may have done the same on a much smaller scale, but it is evident by the complete lack of involvement after the Nerva-Antonine dynasty that Egyptian religion began to fragment and localise in the wake of the loss of centralisation as in Pharaonic and Ptolemaic Egypt.\n\nWhere the pagan religion of the Graeco-Roman world accepted the influence and integration of native Egyptian deities and practices into its own tradition, Christianity was not nearly as accepting. The strict monotheism of the latter was in stark opposition to the freeform syncretism of paganism. Local Christians engaged in campaigns of proselytism and iconoclasm that contributed even more to the erosion of traditional religion. In AD 333, the number of Egyptian bishops is estimated to be just under 100; the Christianisation of the Roman Empire itself, and edicts by Christian emperors in the third and fourth centuries AD compounded the decline, and the last known inscription in hieroglyphics (regarded by some as a symbol of the decline of the religion itself due to their close ties) dates from AD 394, known as the Graffito of Esmet-Akhom. It is located at the temple of Isis on the island of Philae, in Upper Egypt believed to be one of the final remaining places of worship of native Egyptian religion. By this time, Egyptian religion was largely confined to the south of the country and to the distant, isolated Siwa Oasis in the west. This century also saw significant expansion of institutionalised Christianity into Egypt, but adherence to the old religion on a smaller, more local scale was still prevalent. Philae is also the site of the final demotic inscription, dating to AD 452. The temple was closed in AD 553 by Byzantine emperor Justinian I, who ruled from 527 to 565. As official temples fell into disrepair, and religious structures across Egypt declined, the religion gradually faded away.\n\nThough imperial edicts fostered a negative atmosphere towards the pagans, they did not ultimately have a large effect on the disappearance of native religion by themselves. Provincial governors often found that enforcing \"anti-pagan\" edicts such as those of Theodosius I was incisive, especially in unstable regions, and especially so in Egypt. Though undoubtedly effective to check the civil authority of the cults, local village- and town- based practices seem to have been mostly unaffected by these edicts themselves. Rather, the erosion of native religion, and eventual destruction altogether, can be attributed to the priests, bishops, and monks who rampaged through the countryside, intent on \"eradicating demons\". A fiat of AD 423 prescribed penalties to Christians who disturbed the homes (including the shrines) of pagans who were \"living quietly\" and not breaking the law.\n\nRather, it is more appropriate to trace the decline of native religion to the state of its infrastructure. Where Augustus and other emperors of the first and early second centuries AD built in Egypt, and their benevolence is attested to at temples throughout the country, the Crisis of the Third Century exhibits much less imperial activity in the region and religion. Temples during this era entered \"a state of progressive ruin\", falling into disrepair.\n\nThis degeneration of pagan temples for the final time (as opposed to previously, when religious infrastructure would still be repaired or replaced by the pharaonic, Ptolemaic, or early Roman rulers) represents a main cause for the fragmentation of native Egyptian religion in its later forms. Long since missing the central authority given by a pharaoh or even an emperor as seen with Augustus and other first-century emperors who conserved religious infrastructure in the country, Egyptian religion became more and more localised. Religious leaders gradually lost their authority, a probable factor in the conversions to Christianity contemporaneously and later on.\n\nPerhaps one of the final bastions of Egyptian religion, the Coptic language survived the Christianisation and later Islamisation of the country and remained fundamentally similar to the language of Pharaonic Egypt (although more similar to Late Egyptian than any other stage, especially grammatically), enduring for over a millennium before its relegation to a liturgical language by the 16th century. Coptic would give later Egyptologists a crucial insight into the phonology of the Egyptian language, partly because it is not an abjad and thus records vowels, unlike hieroglyphics and hieratic.\n\nPerhaps the most influential and recognisable legacies of Egyptian religion are the monuments erected in honour of it over the course of Egyptian history. Temples, statues, the world-famous pyramids, the Great Sphinx of Giza, and other creations were heavily influenced by religion. In turn, the distinct style of ancient Egyptian architecture has reached the modern day through styles like Egyptian Revival architecture, and the integration and adaptation of religious motifs from Egypt into Western art after Napoleon's campaign in Egypt.\n\nIn late antiquity, however, the effects of Egyptian religion are clear on other religions. The Greeks and Romans both regarded Egypt as exotic and mystic, and this fascination with the country and its religion led somewhat to its diffusion around the Mediterranean. Deities like Isis and Bes made their way across the Mediterranean and the Near East, and the recherché view of Egypt sparked some Greek and Roman esoteric belief systems, Hermeticism being a notable tradition which arose from the reticent magical wisdom of Thoth.\n\nInterest in Egyptian religion has led to attempted renewings of the religion. The contemporary revival of ancient Egyptian religion is known as Kemetism. It arose along with other neopagan religious movements in the 1970s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5304274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5304274", "title": "Deva (Buddhism)", "text": "Deva (Buddhism)\n\nA deva (देव Sanskrit and Pāli, Mongolian \"tenger\" (тэнгэр)) in Buddhism is one of many different types of non-human beings who share the godlike characteristics of being more powerful, longer-lived, and, in general, much happier than humans, although the same level of veneration is not paid to them as to buddhas. The concept of devas was adopted in Japan partly because of the similarity to the Shinto's concept of kami.\n\nOther words used in Buddhist texts to refer to similar supernatural beings are devatā (\"divinity\") and devaputta (\"son of god\"). While the former is a synonym for deva (\"deity\"), the latter refers specifically to one of these beings who is young and has newly arisen in its heavenly world.\n\nDeva refers to a class of beings or a path of the six paths of the incarnation cycle. It includes some very different types of beings which can be ranked hierarchically according to the merits they have accumulated over lifetimes. The lowest classes of these beings are closer in their nature to human beings than to the higher classes of deva. Devas can be degraded to humans or the beings in the three evil paths once they have consumed their merits.\nThe devas fall into three classes depending upon which of the three dhātus, or \"realms\" of the universe they are born in.\n\nThe devas of the \"Ārūpyadhātu\" have no physical form or location, and they dwell in meditation on formless subjects. They achieve this by attaining advanced meditational levels in another life. They do not interact with the rest of the universe.\n\nThe devas of the \"Rūpadhātu\" have physical forms, but are sexless and passionless. They live in a large number of \"heavens\" or deva-worlds that rise, layer on layer, above the earth. These can be divided into five main groups:\n\n\nEach of these groups of deva-worlds contains different grades of devas, but all of those within a single group are able to interact and communicate with each other. On the other hand, the lower groups have no direct knowledge of even the existence of the higher types of deva at all. For this reason, some of the Brahmās have become proud, imagining themselves as the creators of their own worlds and of all the worlds below them (because they came into existence before those worlds began to exist).\n\nThe devas of the \"Kāmadhātu\" have physical forms similar to, but larger than, those of humans. They lead the same sort of lives that humans do, though they are longer-lived and generally more content; indeed sometimes they are immersed in pleasures. This is the realm that Māra has greatest influence over.\n\nThe higher devas of the Kāmadhātu live in four heavens that float in the air, leaving them free from contact with the strife of the lower world. They are:\n\n\nThe lower devas of the Kāmadhātu live on different parts of the mountain at the center of the world, Sumeru. They are even more passionate than the higher devas, and do not simply enjoy themselves but also engage in strife and fighting. They are:\n\n\n\"\"Furthermore, you should recollect the devas: 'There are the devas of the Four Great Kings, the devas of the Thirty-three...\"\n[196. Dh.] \"Feeders of joy we shall be like the radiant gods (devas).\"\"\n\nSometimes included among the devas, and sometimes placed in a different category, are the \"Asuras\", the opponents of the preceding two groups of devas, whose nature is to be continually engaged in war.\n\nHumans are said to have originally had many of the powers of the devas: not requiring food, the ability to fly through the air, and shining by their own light. Over time they began to eat solid foods, their bodies became coarser and their powers disappeared.\n\nThere is also a humanistic definition of 'deva' [male] and 'devi' [female] ascribed to Gotama Buddha: a god is a moral person. This is comparable to another definition, i.e. that 'hell' is a name for painful emotions.\n\nDevas are invisible to the human eye. The presence of a deva can be detected by those humans who have opened the \"Divine eye\" (), (Pāli: dibbacakkhu), (Chinese: 天眼) an extrasensory power by which one can see beings from other planes. Their voices can also be heard by those who have cultivated divyaśrotra, a similar power of the ear.\n\nMost devas are also capable of constructing illusory forms by which they can manifest themselves to the beings of lower worlds; higher and lower devas even have to do this between each other.\n\nDevas do not require the same kind of sustenance as humans do, although the lower kinds do eat and drink. The higher sorts of deva shine with their own intrinsic luminosity.\n\nDevas are also capable of moving great distances speedily and of flying through the air, although the lower devas sometimes accomplish this through magical aids such as a flying chariot.\n\nBuddhist devas differ from the western conception of gods and angels in several ways:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981895", "title": "Devadatta", "text": "Devadatta\n\nDevadatta was by tradition a Buddhist monk, cousin and brother-in-law of Gautama Siddhārtha, the Sākyamuni Buddha, and brother of Ānanda, a principal student of the Buddha. Devadatta was a koliyan and sakyan and is said to have parted from the Buddha's following with 500 other monks to form their own Sangha, most of whom are said to have been Shakya clan relatives of both Devadatta and Siddhartha.\n\nThe name \"Devadatta\" has the meaning \"god-given\" in Palī (cf. Latin \"Deodatus\", \"Deusdedit\"; both also meaning \"god-given\"). It is composed from the stem form of \"deva\" and the past participle \"datta\" of the verb \"da\", \"give\", composed as a tatpurusa compound. In the \"Bhagavad Gītā\", the conch shell used by Arjuna on the battle-field of Kurukshetra was named \"Devadatta\". The name Devadatta is still used today.\n\nAccording to Andrew Skilton, modern scholarship generally agrees that the Mahāsāṃghika Vinaya is the oldest extant Buddhist Vinaya. According to Reginald Ray, the Mahāsāṃghika Vinaya mentions the figure of Devadatta, but in a way that is different from the vinayas of the Sthaviravāda branch. According to this study, the earliest vinaya material common to all sects simply depicts Devadatta as a Buddhist saint who wishes for the monks to live a rigorous lifestyle. This has led Ray to regard the story of Devadatta as a legend produced by the Sthavira group.\n\nFaxian and other Chinese pilgrims who travelled to India in the early centuries of the current era recorded the continued existence of \"Gotamaka\" buddhists, followers of Devadatta. Gotamaka are also referred to in Pali texts of the second and fifth centuries of the current era. The followers of Devadatta are recorded to have honored all the Buddhas previous to Śākyamuni (Gautama Buddha), but not Śākyamuni himself. According to Faxian, Xuanzang and Yijing's writings, some people practised in a similar way and with the same books as common Buddhists, but followed the similar tapas and performed rituals to the past three buddhas and not Śākyamuni.\n\nIn Cullavagga section VII of the Vinayapiṭaka of the Theravādins which deals with schisms, it is told how Devadatta went forth along with a number of the Buddha’s other relatives and clansmen. In the first year he attained psychic power, but made no supermundane achievement.\n\nLooking round to see whom he could convince to honour him he decided to approach Prince Ajātasattu, the heir to the Magadhan throne. Having psychic power he assumed the form of a young boy clad in snakes and sat in the Prince’s lap, which very much impressed the prince, who became his disciple.\n\nAjātasattu began to send great offerings to Devadatta, and the latter became obsessed with his own worth, and began to have thoughts that it was he who should lead the Sangha, not the Buddha, and he didn’t desist even though this thought brought down his psychic powers.\n\nWhen told about the offerings that Devadatta was receiving, the Buddha remarked that all these gains were only going towards his destruction, just as a plantain or a bamboo is destroyed by its fruit.\n\nShortly thereafter, Devadatta asked the Buddha to retire and let him take over the running of the Sangha. The Buddha retorted that he did not even let his trusted disciples Sāriputta or Moggallāna run the Sangha, much less one like him, who should be vomited like spittle, and he gave a special act of publicity about him, warning the monks that he had changed for the worse.\n\nSeeing the danger in this, Devadatta approached Prince Ajātasattu and encouraged him to kill his Father, the good King Bimbisāra, and meanwhile he would kill the Buddha. The King found out about his plan and gave over the Kingdom into the Prince’s control.\n\nAjātasattu then gave mercenaries to Devadatta who ordered them to kill the Buddha, and in an elaborate plan to cover his tracks he ordered other men to kill the killers, and more to kill them and so on, but when they approached the Buddha they were unable to carry out their orders, and were converted instead.\n\nDevadatta then tried to kill the Buddha himself by throwing a rock at him from on high, while the Buddha was walking on the slopes of a mountain. As this also failed he decided to have the elephant Nāḷāgiri intoxicated and let him loose on the Buddha while he was on almsround. However, the power of the Buddha’s loving-kindness overcame the elephant.\n\nDevadatta then decided to create a schism in the order, and collected a few monk friends and demanded that the Buddha accede to the following rules for the monks: they should dwell all their lives in the forest, live entirely on alms obtained by begging, wear only robes made of discarded rags, dwell at the foot of a tree and abstain completely from fish and flesh.\n\nThe Buddha refused to make any of these compulsory, however, and Devadatta went round blaming him, saying that he was living in abundance and luxury. Devadatta then decided to create a schism and recite the training rules (pātimokkha) apart from the Buddha and his followers, with 500 newly ordained monks.\n\nThe Buddha sent his two Chief Disciples Sāriputta and Moggallāna to bring back the erring young monks. Devadatta thought they had come to join his Sangha and, asking Sāriputta to give a talk, fell asleep. Then the Chief Disciples persuaded the young monks to return to the Buddha.\n\nThe Buddha did not show any hatred or deceive, even after what Devadatta had done. Soon after, Devadatta got sick and realized that what he had done was wrong. He tried to go to Buddha's place to apologize for what he did, but it was too late. On the way to the Buddha, the earth sucked him into the Niraya Hell for his deeds.\n\nAccording to the Pāli Canon, he taught his sangha to adopt five tapas (literally, \"austerities\") throughout their lives:\n\n\nThe Buddha's reply was that those who felt so inclined could follow these rules – except that of sleeping under a tree during the rainy season – but he refused to make the rules obligatory. They are among the 13 ascetic practices (dhutanga).\n\nHis followers (including bhikkhus and bhikkhunis) were new monks from the Vajjī clan.\n\nAccording to Jacqueline Stone and Stephen F. Teiser, Devadatta was \"well known to the sutra's early devotees as the Buddhist archetype of an evildoer.\" In the context of the \"promise of buddhahood for everyone, this chapter became widely understood as illustrating the potential for enlightenment even in evil persons.\"\n\nIn the Lotus Sūtra, chapter 12, found in the Mahāyāna Buddhist tradition, the Buddha teaches that in a past life, Devadatta was his holy teacher who set him on the path, and makes a noteworthy statement about how even Devadatta will in time become a Buddha:\n\nIn the Mahāmeghasūtra Devadatta is called a mahāpuruṣa (great being).\n\nIn the Mahayana Buddhist text, the \"Amitāyurdhyāna Sūtra\", Devadatta is said to have convinced Prince Ajātasattu to murder his father King Bimbisāra and ascend the throne. Ajātasattu follows the advice, and this action (another \"anantarika-kamma\" for killing one's own father) prevents him from attaining stream-entry at a later time, when listening to some teaching of the Buddha. This is confirmed by the Sāmaññaphalasutta of the Dīgha Nikāya (DN 2).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33279328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33279328", "title": "Dissenter Acts (Sweden)", "text": "Dissenter Acts (Sweden)\n\nDissenter Acts () were laws, enacted by the King of Sweden with the consent of the Swedish Parliament, which gave nonconformists who wanted to leave the then established Church of Sweden the right to do so, provided that the dissenters then joined one of the state-approved denominations. The first such edict was decreed in 1860 by Karl XV and the \"Ståndsriksdag\"; the second one in 1873 by Oscar II and the reorganized bicameral \"Riksdag\". Neither the \"Ståndsriksdag\", divided into four Estates, nor the newer \"Riksdag\" could be said to be truly democratic, though, as the suffrage was restricted to males who owned property. The 1873 edict remained in force until the 1951 Religious Freedom Act (\"religionsfrihetslag\"); the Church of Sweden remained the established state church until 2000.\n\nDespite the enactment of the Dissenter Acts, nonconformists were still required to financially support the then established Church of Sweden:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11078515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11078515", "title": "Gurdwaras in Oceania", "text": "Gurdwaras in Oceania\n\nThis is a list of gurdwaras in Oceania, comprising gurdwaras (temples) of Sikhs in Australia, Fiji, New Zealand and other nations of the region.\n\nSingh Sabha|||taigum, Brisbane\n\n"}
{"id": "3730350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3730350", "title": "Halumatha", "text": "Halumatha\n\n\"Halumatha\" is a denomination of the Hindu religion mainly followed by Hatkar and Kuruba Gowda. The majority of members of Halumatha are followers of Advaita and Nature Worship.\n\n\"Halumatha\" or \"Palamatha\" means beliefs of the protectors of the society. In Sanskrit \"Pal\" means protect, defend, rule, govern etc. \"Matha\" means group view, belief, doctrine etc.\n\nWorshiping originated from Halumatha. Stone is the source for the soil. Soil is the source for the plants. Plants are the source for the animals. This may be the reason for worshiping Almight in Stone. Through the ages, this stone worship tradition might have led to worshiping Shiva as Beeralingeswara, Mailara Linga, Malladevaru, Mahadeshwara, Nanjundeswara, Mallappa, Mallara, Mallikarjuna etc. Even the worshiping of shakti as Yellamma, Renuka, Chowdamma, Kariyamma, Chamundi, Bhanashankari, Gullamma etc. might have come from this tradition. Even today, ancestral worship as deities is very common. The worship of ancestors like Revanasidda, Rama, Hanuman, Krishna, Keshava, Ranganatha, Eerathimmanna, Tirupati Thimmappa, Venkateswara, Kalidasa, Siddarama, Kanakadasa etc. as Devaru very much exists in Kuruba Gowda traditions. Kurubas worship Shiva and Vishnu concept of the Almighty with the equal devotion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24807127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24807127", "title": "Healing the man blind from birth", "text": "Healing the man blind from birth\n\nThe miracle of healing the man born blind is one of the miracles of Jesus in the Gospels.\n\nAccording to the Gospel of John, 9:1–12, Jesus saw a man who had been blind since birth. His disciples asked him, \"Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?\"\n\nJesus replied:\nNeither this man nor his parents sinned,\" said Jesus, \"but this happened so that the works of God might be displayed in him. As long as it is day, we must do the works of him who sent me. Night is coming, when no one can work. While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.\nHaving said this, he spat on the ground, made some mud with the saliva, and put it on the man's eyes. \"Go,\" he told him, \"wash in the Pool of Siloam\" (this word means \"Sent\"). So the man went and washed, and came home seeing.\n\nHis neighbors and those who had formerly seen him begging asked, \"Isn't this the same man who used to sit and beg?\" Some claimed that he was. Others said, \"No, he only looks like him.\" But he himself insisted, \"I am the man.\"\n\n\"How then were your eyes opened?\" they asked. He replied, \"The man they call Jesus made some mud and put it on my eyes. He told me to go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed, and then I could see.\"\n\n\"Where is this man?\" they asked him. \"I don't know,\" he said.\n\nIn this miracle, Jesus applies the title Light of the World to himself in , saying:\n\nThis episode leads into where Jesus metaphorically explains that he came to this world, so that the blind may see.\n\nAccording to Christian tradition, the man's name was Celidonius.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30412983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30412983", "title": "History of the Jews in Brody", "text": "History of the Jews in Brody\n\nThe Jewish community of Brody (district city in Lviv region of western Ukraine) was one of the oldest and most well-known Jewish communities in the western part of Ukraine (and formerly in Austrian Empire / Poland up to 1939). Jewish community of Brody perished in the Holocaust in 1942–1943 and is nomore today. During the 19th century, Brody was the second largest city in East Galicia (after Lviv (Lemberg)), with the highest proportion of the Jewish population (88%) among Eastern European cities.\n\n\"A city, where wisdom and wealth, Torah and understanding, commerce and faith are united.\"\n\n\"Nachman Krochmal in a letter to Isaac Erter\"\n\nWhen one speaks about any major sort of modern scholarly or historiographic activities in Eastern Galicia that started with Haskalah movement in this area, such activities are bound to three exclusive centers of the Galician Enlightenment, namely: Lviv, Ternopil and Brody. Today the latter is a non-significant West Ukrainian town, administrative center of Brodivsky rayon in the north-eastern fringe of Lvivska oblast. There are few towns in Western Ukraine with so dramatic and challenging Jewish history as it is in case of Brody. For a long time Brody had been one of the greatest centers of commerce in the whole Austro-Hungarian Empire. It was rightly referred to as Triest on the continent. The town has been known yet since the 12th century and soon after was almost entirely inhabited by the Jews. Because of the last fact it came known to be as \"Galician Jerusalem\". During the Austrian rule in Galicia, the North Eastern fringe of the empire passed just a few kilometres from Brody. It was the border of two greatest East European empires at that time Austrian and Russian and Brody by the luck or misfortune of history happened to be squeezed between the two borders. By misfortune, because of its border location it was twice utterly destroyed first during the First World War and again in 1944. By luck, because the city took a great commercial benefit and privileges being a border city. Because of its location, in 1779, Brody received the status of a \"free city\" and could trade with all the European countries. Worthwhile to note that in the 18th century the commercial turnover of Brody city exceeded the turnover of whole province of Galicia taken together. In the 19th century it was the second largest city on the territory of Galicia after Lemberg. Its \"sister city\" over the Russian side of the border was Radyvyliv just 9 km east of Brody. Radyvyliv played a similar function as Brody on the Russian side of the border.\n\nUnlike in other parts of Eastern Galicia, not only the town of Brody but also the villages around it had a significant proportion of the Jews. Even a remote tiny forest village of Stanislavchyk, 15 km north east of the city, surrounded by hip plantations, boasts a Jewish heritage and had many Jews living there, most likely moving there from Brody. An old desolate Jewish graveyard in Stanislavchyk bears witness to its vivid Jewish past.\n\nAustrian authorities associated enlightened Jews as such with the free city of Brody. The governor of Galicia aptly noted that in Galicia there are Orthodox, Hasidim and Karaites, but enlightened Jews can be found only in Brody. Brody was the second largest city (after Lemberg) in East Galicia with the largest proportion of the Jewish population among perhaps of all the district cities in Europe ever (88%). Brody stands out as Jewish cultural and economic center in the area, a \"symbol\". Brody was tax free city during early Austrian rule, that fact which promoted its commercial status to the central commercial hub of Eastern Galicia (linking it with the major European trade centers such as Leipzig). Its international commercial links promoted bringing of new ideas, foreign culture, enlightenment making Brody an intellectual center. There were not many cities Europe with nearly exclusively Jewish population, except Brody, and to a certain degree Berdychiv in Russian Ukraine and Thessaloniki in Greece. In 1827, out of total number 11,718 Jewish merchants and shopkeepers in the whole of Galicia, 1,134 (about 10%) were in Brody. The same year, Brody was home to 36 Jewish brokers and 9 Jewish bankers. Jews owned 163 (93%) large commercial and industrial enterprises in Brody (175 in total).\n\nIn \"Toldot Yehudei Brody\" (The History of the Jews of Brody) Nathan-Michael Gelber was wrong by saying the city was founded by Stanisław Żółkiewski in 1584. Though Żołkiewski indeed got a permission from Polish king Stefan Batory to establish a center following Magdeburg city laws in Brody. Brody as a settlement was first mentioned in the medieval \"Teaching of Volodymyr Monomakh to the children\", grand duke of Chernihiv and Kiev. The source notes that Brody served twice as a meeting place of Chernihiv duke Volodymyr Monomakh and Volhynian duke St. Yaropolk Izyaslavich. These events took place in 1084 and 1086 and the prior date formally figures as a beginning of Brody history in local historiography. Nathan Gelber writes also that Brody was originally a city called \"Lubeszów.\" The last statement needs to be corrected as well. Naming Brody as Lubicz was an unlucky attempt undertaken by the same Stanisław Żółkiewski who used the \"Lubicz\" from his family's coat of arms. The new name never got a real application and already in the documents of the 1590s the city figures as Brody. In the year 1648, during the Khmelnytsky massacres in Poland, 400 Jewish families lived in Brody, quite a significant number of Jews for a Polish town in that period. Until 1664, Brody was a \"sub-kahal\" of Lviv, i.e. under the administration of Lviv Jewish Community. From the 17th century, Brody became an important center of Jewish trade (esp. horse fairs) and artisans. In 1756 Brody was home to 7191 Jews, reaching 14.718 in 1880 (out of 19.977 of total town inhabitants). Among the six largest Jewish commercial firms in Brody in 1849 were M. Nathanson - with 40.000 florins in the capital, Yidl Nathanson and Nirenstein with 30.000 florins each.\n\nBesides its commercial importance, the city was of a great Talmudic and scholarly importance, where Talmudists and Hasidim fought and coexisted. The famous sages of Brody Kloiz were \"the lions and tigers in the Torah and in piety\".\n\nIn about 1720 it was a home to the founder of Hasidism Baal Shem Tov. \nDubnow gives a vivid account of the Brody phase in Besht biographical history. Baal Shem Tov arrived in Brody at the age of 20 when his religious outlook was taking shape, yet before making himself public all over western Ukrainian lands. Dubnow states that Besht settled in some village by Brody. He engaged in the profession of melamed, teacher of the youngsters. As he was not well trained in the Talmud, Simon Dubnow presumes he was an elementary level teacher instructing children in prayer, reading and translating Torah. Despite his insignificant position, soon after he earned a respect and fame in Brody. His honesty, non-passionate meek character, humbleness and life gained wisdom attracted the attention of the surrounding common people, heading to him for consultations and court advice. So happened that among the suppliants was Ephraim Kutover, the father to Brody rabbi Gershon Kutover. The seeker was so pleased with Besht's decision in his matter, that after getting knowing him closer and that he is a widower he offered him to marry his divorced daughter.\n\n\"Shevhei ha-Besht\" explicitly mentions the existence of pre-Besht era Hasidic circle in Brody. The source mentions Brody as the place where Besht was first made a Rabbi of local Hasidim: \"...the conventicle of great pietists Hasidim in that city Brody...who made him their rabbi.\" Though first Besht was rejected by Brody 'skabbalistic brotherhood as he did not match the traditional qualifications to be admitted. But eventually, thanks to his charisma he gained respect of the fellows. It should be noted that Besht had high regard for those \"great Hasidim\" of the Brody circle and it seems quite plausible that the Baalshem intended to organise a similar fellowship of his own or wanted to unite with a brotherhood of Brody kind.\n\nHowever the married couple was later expelled out of Brody settling in Kuty, some 100 km to the south at the foothills of the Carpathians.\nHowever the kabbalistic fellowship of Brody did not act on social scale. It was a closed circle of pietists who used to gather at Brody Study Hall, founded around 1736, not spreading their activities beyond that.\n\nWhen thanks to Besht, the Hasidism started taking a shape of large-scale social phenomenon, in 1772 the same Brody Community issued a famous harsh ban against its own \"son and offspring\" Besht and \"illness infected\" Hasidim with the strange exception of allowing the prayer in Lurianic rite. Gershon Kutover (Brody native, secretary to Baal Shem Tov and his brother-in-law, who settled in Palestine later) was here to defend his employer when Brody sages were preparing to anathematise him, and so they did. Brody ban of 1772 encompassed a great number of Hasidic practices, including Hasidic shehitah (slaughter by Talmud forbidden honed shehitah knives / geschleefeene) that irritated the Misnagdim. Brody ban justly predicted the impact the movement might have in Galicia. The proclamation is included in the pamphlet \"Zamir arisim ve-harevot surim\". Brodyites expressed their concern that the new heresy can bring a catastrophe on whole Polish Jewry discrediting God's name in the same way as Frankists and Sabbateans did. Brody sages feared that the sect was particularly dangerous as there was no high authority to interfere after dissolution of the Great Council of Fours Lands. Brody declaration caused great furore on the tsaddiks when learning of it, who in their turn became even more active in a fight for a believer, as a cause of it.\n\nBrody played a leading role in the Galician Haskalah movement. Moses Mendelsohn's teacher Israel ben Moses Ha-Levi of Zamość Lefin (who was born in Bibrka, Lviv region) choose Brody to be his final seat, where he died in April 1772. Israel Lefin spent part of his life in Berlin where he was teaching Mendelssohn, instructing him in mathematics and to whom he imparted his love for philosophy. Israel's sojourn in Berlin, however, was not a long one. Persecutions by the Orthodox rabbis forced him to seek another home, and he returned to Galician lands, settling in Brody, where he lived in great poverty. Israel Lefin was an outstanding Jewish astronomer, author of the Nezah Yisrael, dedicated to the astronomical and geometrical passages in both Talmuds (published in Frankfurt-on-Oder in 1741) and of \"Arubbot ha-Shamayim\", treateas on ancient and modern astronomy. In his memoirs, Avrom Ber Gotlober gives a vivid account of the importance Brody had on the spreading of the Enlightenment ideas in Russia and Ukraine proper:\n\n\"The Jews who lived in the large Galician cities were the first to be enlightened by the light of the wisdom of the RaMbeMaN [acronym for Moses Mendelssohn] and his followers. On the account of their travels they would travel to various Russian cities and bring with them at the same time the spices of their enlightenment and knowledge…In this regard Brody especially excelled, being a city of scholars and Maskilim who used to do business mostly with Russia. Everywhere that a merchant of Brody would come, he would excite the youth with his fine speaking – their eyes opened…and they would take up education...\"\n\nAmong the maskilim living in Brody in the 19th century, we find Dov Ber Blumenfeld, Isaac Erter and Joshua Heschel Schorr. The latter published periodical \"He-Halutz\" (the Pioneer) in Brody during 1852–1889. Adolf Stand, the president of Galician Zionists was elected to the Austrian parliament from Brody district in 1907. However, in 1911 he was forced to quit his deputy mandate due to the political intrigues initiated by the assimilationist .\n\nBecause of the highly commercial and internationalised nature of Brody Jewish community it was one of the most Germanised Galician cities. In May 1784 the first Josephinian style German Jewish Normal school was opened in Brody. In 1815 the first Jewish \"Realschule\" was established with German to be the main language of instruction.\n\nBrody was home to the acclaimed \"Royal Gymnasium of archprince Rudolf\" (today it is Brody Gymnasium), which was once attended by the known Jewish writer Joseph Roth. taught there as well and Roth was his student. The modern monument next to the school commemorates several outstanding figures that studied here. It is shaped in a rainbow of head figures associated with the establishment. Along with Roth's, it includes the sculptures of three Ukrainian cultural notabilities: painter Trush, folklorist Rozdolsky, scientist Shchurat and writer Tudor.\n\nThe issue of Jewish national identity, problem of Jewish national language and their recognition in the legal system of Habsburg monarchy was reflected in Brody school case and tribunal dispute from 1880. Since 1867 Austrian monarchy recognized the equal status of all the nationalities and languages used in the large multicultural state. The 19th paragraph of new Austro-Hungarian Constitution (from the 21st of Dec., 1867) was meant to guarantee equal national rights to all the ethnic group in the empire. In Brody where more than ¾ of the population were the Jews (out of ca. 20.000 of inhabitants) there was only one public school with instruction in German and two schools with Polish as instruction medium. Galician Regional School Council (\"Landesschulrat\") in Lviv allowed opening of two more schools refusing however the wish of Brody town commune to have German for instruction language in these new schools. Council was only willing to allow them to be in Polish. In the end, in 1880 Brody town commune appealed with the complaint to the Tribunal of the State (Reichsgericht) in Vienna, after unsuccessful attempts to defend their claim at the Galician Landeschulrat and the Ministry of Religion and Science. In the State Tribunal Brody commune was represented by Dr (1831–1894), who published the memorial on the situation of Jews in Austria in 1859. The tribunal referee in Brody case was (1807–1894) who concluded that the rights of Brody town commune guaranteed by the 19th paragraph of the constitution were violated what all other board members agreed to as well. The Ministry of Education viewed Brody Israelites as not belonging to German nationality (against the views of Brody commune itself) while Brody and Galician Israelites did not want to acknowledge themselves neither to Polish nor to Ukrainian nationalities. According to Hye, Brody Jews could not use \"the guaranteed constitutional rights as for nationality and language\" and either to present themselves as a separate Hebrew ethnic group different from all other Austrian minorities what Hye declined pointing at several previous bans of usage of Hebrew language in the administrative life and non-recognition of \"Hebrew tribe\" by Austrian legislature. Pergin von Purschka, court councillor and member of the Highest Tribunal (\"Oberster Gerichtshof\") considered that \"the Jews joined only the language tribe (Sprachenstamm).\" Though the last term was not verbum legale of Austrian legislature indifference to the term defining an ething group – \"Volkstamm\". Two other board members (Dr Anton Rintelen and count Edmund Hartig) suggested to limit the discussion to the fact that \"Brody Jews speak German and all other issues should be set aside\". So it was decided in the strident tribunal case won by the Brodyites.\n\nThe city name Brody derives from Ukrainian word \"brid\" which means \"ford\" (German \"Furt\") changing in plural into \"brody\" i.e. \"fords\". Crossing a swampy ford on the way to the city one marvels with a question how could something referred to as \"Jerusalem\" in such a flat and boggy pine forested \"mosquito area\". What could attract the Jews here in the \"fords\"? The answer is indisputable – commerce and trade. Kratter, the contemporary of Joseph II, notes in his \"Briefe über den jetztigen Zustand Galiziens\" that Brody is the first and almost the only commercial city, where big enterprises are concentraned in the Jewish hands, except a few German trade and banking houses.\n\nBrody's Jerusalemic association is not a sheer modern invention. The tradition ascribes this analogy to the emperor Joseph II, who visited Brody in 1774 and presumably said that \"Now, it is clear why I am designated to be Jerusalem king\" (one of the titles of Austrian emperors). Joseph's stay in Brody resulted in significant consequences. In 1778 he issues the decree that makes Brody a free town. This event quickly reflected on city development and life, marking a new era that lasted for 100 favourable years in all the respects. Yet in 1774 Joseph II freed Brody citizens from all the taxes under the condition of reconstruction of old houses and erecting of new ones. The market square got surrounded by new stone houses with undergrounds for storage purposes.\n\nMany Jewish historians as Simon Dubnow (in \"The History of Hasidism\"), Raphael Mahler (in \"Hasidism and the Jewish Enlightenment\") all frequently direct themselves and touch upon Brody, willingly or unwillingly, as Brody was in a fact a Jewish hub, one of the most important \"bricks\" in the Galician and Austrian Jewish history. And any historian undertaking a serious study of Jewish past in Galicia, should draw his attention to one of the primary Jewish historical clusters in the area, namely Brody.\n\nThe Galician Jewish cultural development was directly linked with the international trade, as most of Eastern Galicia was economically impoverished peasant countryside. Notorious Russian Jewish journalist and writer Solomon Ansky who after great efforts visited Eastern Galicia, to inquire of the local Jewish state of affairs at the time of the outbreak of the First World War, gives subtly conclusive and very apt description of the land, which is worthy to cite:\n\nGalicia is one of the poorest regions in Central Europe, if not the poorest. It has few natural resources, few mineral deposits. The soil is not particularly fertile; the farming methods are primitive and the harvests meagre. The deeply rooted Galicians, especially Ruthenians (i.e. Ukrainians) in the eastern part are barely educated and live roughly; they are more backward than the Russian \"muzhik\". All this has of course effected the economic condition of Galician Jews, who numbered between 900.000 and 1 million before the war. Even Jews in the Austrian Empire enjoy equal rights, with equal access to all the professions and government jobs, those in Galicia are very poor and unsophisticated. This is confirmed by two sets of statistics: Galicia has the highest death rate among Jews and the highest immigration to America.\n\nThe decline of Brody started in 1879, when the city lost its rights as a free commercial city. In 1880 there were 15,316 Jews in town, who formed 76,3% of the total population. Only in 11 years, the Jewish population dropped to 12,751 in 1890.\n\nMentioning the Galician Jewish immigration to America, interesting to note that most of these immigrants (along with their Ukrainian and Polish immigrant fellows) were impoverished economic refugees who were not in possession even of 50 dollars. The statistical study done by Szyja Bornsztejn witnesses that for the year of 1914, 53,1% of Galician and Polish Jews immigrating to the United States did not possess any money at all when arriving on the American soil. 39,2% of possessed less than 50 dollars and only 7,7% possessed a sum over USD 50. If divided, the average sum at the hands of each Galician Jewish newcomer comprised only 22 dollars. Besides that Jewish immigration from Brody and surrounding Lviv, Ternopil and Volhyn voivodships was among the highest in the years 1926–1929. From Ternopil province (including Brody district) it was 4,1%, from Volhyn province 7,5%, from Lviv province 9,1%, all of total Jewish population in the provinces.\n\nThe key and turning point in the history of Brody was the Russian onslaught and burning of the city at the outbreak of the First World War. This drama and scope of the tragedy of these events closely echoes Josephus account of the Fall of Jerusalem, burning of the Last Temple and its siege by Titus legions. The havoc that dominated the city at that time was terrific. Modern Josephus in case of Brody was Russian Jewish journalist Solomon Ansky (born \"Shloyme-Zanvl ben Aaron Hacohen Rappoport\") who witnessed the Russian invasion of Brody and described it in a great detail. Just like Josephus was on the Roman side of the conqueror, so was S. Ansky on the Russian one in case of Brody. Ansky's account of burning of Brody reflects the depth of the tragedy that befell Brody Jews with the outbreak of the war:\n\nAt the start of the war Brody's train station had gone up in flames. Now a ramshackle buffet had been set up in one of the ruins. When I entered, the place was packed with officers, who were standing at the buffet or around small tables, consuming borshch. I noticed that the soup bowls bore a Hebrew inscription that read \"mazel tov\", congratulations. The china had been evidently stolen from a Jewish hotel…The road to Brody was flanked by burned and desolate cottages. In the distance we saw a broad field covered with ruins. Soon the devastated town emerged from the grey mist of an early winter morning. There were blackened chimneys and burned walls as far as we could see, visible beneath a dusting of downy snow. The town looked like the ancient, mossy remnants of Pompeii. I noticed the schorched wall of a synagogue. Above the door, some Hebrew words had survived: \"How awesome is this place\" [from Genesis 28:17]. The verse was fitting for the ruins of the house of worship and for the entire spread of the shattered neighbourhood. Nestled among the wreckage I saw a small cottage almost embedded in the earth. It looked as if it had crouched down during the conflagration, hidden in the ground, and therefore survived. An old Jewish man was standing nearby, as poor and hunched as the cottage itself. When he saw me and my friend in our uniforms, he whipped off his cap and bowed deeply. I went over and asked in Yiddish, \"How come your cottage escaped the fire?\" The old man gaped at me, then shrugged and sighed. \"Perhaps a miracle… Heaven granted us a place to starve to death.\" I gave him a rouble. He was so amazed he forgot to thank me. He stood motionless, gawking. We walked on among the burned ruins. I noticed something that I would see again and again: at every street corner, shiny metal signs in Russian had been nailed to the walls. The occupiers had given every street a fancy, new name: Pushkin Street, Gogol Street, Lermontov Street, and even Turgenev Street, if I remember correctly. The irony of naming these horribly deformed street after the luminaries of Russian culture had escaped the victors: they did not realize how offensive it was to the memory of our great Russian authors...\n\nThe burning of Brody had devoured almost half of the town – several hundred exclusively Jewish houses...With its old market place, the unsigned area looked impoverished and dejected. Many stores, especially the bigger one and richer ones, were locked or boarded up…The instant…I entered the market, we were surrounded by whole army of poor, ragged, famished kids, who were begging for a kopek. Most of them were Christian, but three or four were jewish. I gave each child a few kopeks, no matter what is his religion. But the instant I handed a coin to a Jew, all Christian children began shouting at me: \"Don’t give him anything! Don’t give him anything! He is a Jew! The children were joined by a Jewish beggar, a strange woman of about sixty. She wore a red dress, her grey hair was powdered, and her movements were nervous. She stood before me, grinning, her nasty, hungry eyes glaring at me, and she sort of danced a little. Then in a hoarse voice, mangling the language, she began warbling a sentimental Russian song, \"Ptichka Kanareyka\", dearest little canary, about a young man who sends out a canary with a greeting for his beloved. The old beggar woman's screechy voice and outlandish appearance made a terrible impression on me. I gave her some coins and tried to hurry off. But she blocked my way, taring into my eyes and squawking her horrible song. She plainly expected me to be surprised that she could sing in Russian. I was haunted for the rest of the day by the nightmare of the beggar's appearance and performance.\n\nStrange enough, but even greater destruction wave (if we consider Holocaust in Brody) befell upon Brody also during the Russian Civil War. Brody went in flames for the second time. Isaac Babel in his \"The Death of Dolgushov\" describes second burning of Brody:\n\nThe curtains of battle were moving toward the city. At noon, Korochaev, in a black cloak, the disgraced commander of the fourth division, fighting alone and seeking out death, flew past us. On the run he shouted to me: \"Our communications links are broken! Radziwillow and Brody are in flames!\" And he galloped off, fluttering, all black, with eyes like coal. On the plain, flat as a board, the brigades were repositioning themselves. The sun was rolling along in the crimson dust.\n\nAfter the collapse of Habsburg monarchy Western Ukrainian lands were incorporated into Poland. According to the new administrative division, Brody district became part of newly created Tarnopol Voivodeship (Ternopil province) being administered from Ternopil, which by that time exceeded Brody in terms of attracting Jewish population becoming a home to 13.999 Jews (1931). While the number of Jews in Brody declined to 8.288.\nLike the surrounding Lviv and Ternopil areas, Brody district had one of the highest concentration of Jews in the countryside.\nAfter the First World War, Brody was not anymore a border city hub. It lost its geo-commercial and geo-cultural value. The borders of new Poland moved further eastwards and with the Holocaust there was no more Jewish Brody, and Brody as \"city\" itself, because Brody was 88% Jewish city. The following incorporation of Brody into the Soviet Ukraine and Ukrainiazation of the city, due to the influx of local Ukrainian peasantry from the rural areas basically into emptied (of urban Poles and Jews) Galician cities after 1944 turned Brody into a provincial town. The changes that occurred within basically 50 years are dramatic. The deeply changing character of Brody reflects and exemplifies at its best the cross-cultural historic experience of East Galician past. History of the Jews in Brody provides a demonstration of Jewish commercial and intellectual rise and decline in Eastern Galicia.\n\nFamous Jewish literary historian was Brody native. Jacob Goldenthal, one of the most renown Austrian orientalists was born at Brody, April 16, 1815 and died at Vienna Dec. 28, 1868. Goldenthal got his education at the University of Leipzig. He was one of a few modern Jewish specialists on Sufism and Al-Ghazali. He issued \"Das Neue Zion\", a monthly periodical in Leipzig (Nisan, 1845) of which only one number appeared. Another periodical which he edited, \"Das Morgenland\" was also short-lived.\n\nIt is no doubt that the greatest among the literary figures Brody ever produced to the world was Joseph Roth, famous Austrian Jewish writer, was born on 2 September 1894 in a southern part of Brody called Shvaby (after German \"Schwaben\"). His parents were Nahum Roth and Mariam (Grubel) Roth. His father died when Joseph was quite young. Grubel's family was raising little Joseph. From 1901 to 1913 had been studying in the local public school. In that school teaching was in German. He continued his studies in the above noted Brody gymnasium. The nostalgia for old days Austrian Brody was very strong in Roth's novels. He was missing his childhood and old Austrian lifestyle. His \"March of Radetzky\" showed author's moods and feelings. Roth masterly describes the Austrian epoch of his and local society's life. He showed different processes that were slowly destroying the great multicultural Habsburg state. Roth expresses his irony towards Franz Joseph. But at the same time through the lines the readers could feel nostalgia for stability in the society, old Galician folkways, even nostalgia after the Kaiser. The Austrian \"Gesellschaft für Literatur\" donated and fixed the memorial plate in honour of J. Roth in modern Brody with the words in Ukrainian and German: \"Der Dichter Joseph Roth hat im Mai 1913 an diesem Gymnasium die Matura sub Auspicis Imperatoris abgelegt\".\n\nFrom 1918 Brodyite J. Roth was working in Vienna's newspaper as a journalist. In 1920 he moved to Berlin where he became a journalist of \"Frankfurter Zeitung\". From 1922 he was working in social democratic newspaper \"Vorvarts\" (\"Forward\"). This newspaper did match his personal beliefs. At the same year he got married to Frederica Raiher. When Nazis came to power Joseph left Berlin. He was moving from one European city to another. Last years of his life Roth spent in Paris where he died on May 27, 1939.\n\nBrody produced also one of the most noted Israeli literary scholars, Hebrew and Yiddish writer, Knesset member, professor of Hebrew University Dov Sadan (born Stock, 1909–1989) who was born in Brody, Galicia and immigrated to Palestine in 1925. He was a member of the staff of the Davar daily newspaper and the Am Oved publishing house. In 1932, he served for four months as secretary to Shmuel Agnon, being his lifelong friend.\n\nBrody played a significant role in the history of Russian Jewry as well. Galician Jewish immigrants and merchants directed themselves westwards but also eastwards. Brody was a kind of Galician \"Odessa\". Zipperstein, in his study on Odessa describes the immigration of Brodyites to Odessa and the role of Brody in this Galician commercial wave to the Black Sea \"pearl\": Brody, \"the rising star east of Lemberg\", was seen by Russian maskilim as Galicia's cultural center.\n\nIn Odessa we find Brody synagogue established by Brody merchants in the 1840s. In Leipzig, at Keilstrasse 4 is another footprint of Brody commercial tycoons, Brody Synagogue., the only synagogue in Leipzig to survive Kristallnacht, because there had been \"Aryan\" tenants in the building's upper stories – was restored and re-consecrated. A. Yehuda (Osterzetzer) devoted a few pages on Brodyites in Leipzig in the Brody Yizkor Book. There is also Broder Synagogue in Jerusalem, managed by Jewish Orthodox community.\n\nHundreds of Jews all over the world trace their roots to Brody and as a result of it, many adopted the last name \"Brodsky, Brodski, Brodskiy, Brodowski, Brodovsky, Brodisch\" (meaning \"from Brody\") or simply Brody. Among them Russian violinist Adolph Brodsky (b. 1851), modern American singer Chuck Brodsky, Russian American poet Joseph Brodsky (1940–1996) - the winner of Nobel prize in Literature of 1987, Russian painter Isaac Brodsky (1883–1939). In the imperial history of Russian Jewry the most famous is the family of Meir Schorr who adopted the last name Brodsky (after he moved from Brody settling in Kiev). He had five sons: Israel Brodsky (1823–1889) who surpassed his brothers in wealth and philanthropy, Lazar Brodsky and Leon Brodsky who were practically at the head of sugar industry in Russia (owned 22 sugar factories and 3 refineries), Abraham Brodsky (1816–1884) settled in Odessa in 1858, where he became the most prominent member of the city council of Odessa being involved in sugar industry as well. Abraham's son Samuel (1846–1896) was also a member of the Odessa city council.\n\nBrody gave Italy its main rabbi as well. Brody native, Israel Zoller (in Italy he changed his last name for Eugenio Zolli) was born in 1881 in Brody. After finishing his studies he left Brody and settled in Trieste (Italian Triest and Galician Brody were within one state at that time – Austria-Hungary). Zoller became the chief rabbi of Trieste after World War I, professor of Hebrew at the University of Padua from 1927 to 1938, and, from 1939 he takes the post of the chief rabbi of Rome. His biography during the last two decades of his life is quite controversial and had a lot of resonance worldwide. In early September 1943, when the Nazis entered Rome, Zoller took refuge in the Vatican. At the end of the hostilities he reappeared to assume his position as rabbi, but was rejected by the community. In February 1945, Zoller converted to Catholicism, taking the name of Eugenio Maria (in homage to Pope Pius XII) returning to the Vatican. After the world war, he was professor of Semitic epigraphy and Hebrew at the University of Rome. Zoller is the author of a great number of works, especially on the biblical interpretation, Jewish history, liturgy, and Talmudic literature. Most were published in Italian and include Israele (\"Israel\", 1935), L’ebraismo (\"Judaism\", 1953), autobiographical reflections Before the Dawn (1954). His translation of the tractate Berakhot was published by a Catholic publishing house in 1968. Zoller died in Italy in 1956.\n\nThe same concerns Romania, where the local Jewish community was headed by Brody native Iuliu (Julius) Barasch (Yehuda). He was born in Brody in 1815, settling in Romania where he was named the Mendelssohn of Romania, leader of the Bucharest community, author of the brochure L'emancipation des Israélites en Roumanie (1861). Barasch was among the organisers of the Romanian education system. He founded the first secular modern Israeli school (1852) in Bucharest, with Romanian-language classes. He was the director of the magazine \"Isis sau Natura\" (Isis or Nature, 18561859). He had an important activity in historiography, in 1862, he founded \"Societatea de Cultura Israelita\" (The society of Israelite culture).\n\nMany other outstanding personalities are associated with Brody, namely Napoleonic leader and commander Baron, General Johann Hiller who was born in Brody in 1754, was commissioned into the Artillery in 1770, became known in the Napoleonic fights with the Turks in 1788-1791. Oscar Chajes, famous 19th-century Jewish chess player was born in Brody. The same roots had Daniel Daniel Abraham (Abe) Yanofsky, born in Brody in 1925 and settled in Canada with his family when he was just eight months old. He learned chess at the age of eight, after he and his father saw a chess board and pieces on sale for $1 in the People's Book Store window on Main Street in Winnipeg.\n\nIsraeli Rabbi Kalman Kahana was born and grew up in Brody. The Kahane family was notorious in Brody and included the 18th-century rabbi of Brody Abraham Kahane. In 1938 Kalman Kahana immigrated to Mandatory Palestine, becoming the leader of Poalei Agudat Yisrael and member of Provisional State Council. He went on to serve as a member of the Knesset from 1949 until 1981, also serving as Deputy Minister of Education and Culture between 1961 and 1966.\n\nAfter the pogroms in 1881, crowds of Russian Jews flooded into Brody, from where they headed for America or back to Russia. By summer of 1882 the number of Russian refugees in Brody reached 20.000, most of them stayed in Brody temporarily until the possibility of further immigration westwards. A local refugee relief committee was organised in Brody and a number of foreign representatives from Paris and Vienna Alliances, other major Jewish organisations were active at this time in the city, including such figures as Friedlander, Netter and Schafir. In the course of four months 1800 immigrants were transported on their way to America. After arrival of British deputies, the committee was reorganised and managed to send 11 trains with immigrants westwards (in one case 533 people in a go). Meanwhile, the number of refugees continued to grow. On 2 June 1882 it reached 12.476 individuals in 10 days the number increased to 12.668, despite the fact that 1.405 had been sent already within that week. The social situation deteriorated reaching a critical limit. Baron Hirsch entrusted his secretary Veneziani to buy spacious premises of an old clothing factory, where the refugees were consequently accommodated.\n\nThe Jewish community of Brody perished in the Holocaust. A great number of Brody Jews were murdered in the autumn 1942. A group of 250 Brody Jewish intellectuals were shot nearby the Jewish cemetery in Brody (where the Holocaust monument stands now). Some of surviving Brody Jews were imprisoned in the family camp of Pyanytsia (Pianica) in the forests near Lviv. All of remaining Brody Jews were moved into the ghetto created in the town on January 1, 1943 (or December 1942). Another 3,000 Jews from neighbouring areas of Zolochiv, Lopatyn and Busk were subsequently added to Brody's ghetto. Horrible work conditions made some young people to run away joining the Soviet army. Ghetto's poor hygiene and hunger were non-tolerable. The disease and famine took hundreds of Jewish lives. All 9.000 Jews of Brody ghetto were subsequently mass murdered on May 1, 1943. On September 19, 1942, around 2,500 Jews of Brody were deported to the extermination camp of Bełżec (today a little town on Polish Ukrainian border). On November 2, 3,000 more Jews were sent from Brody to Bełżec extermination camp. Many Brody Jews were exterminated in Majdanek concentration camp near Lublin (a city in the south east corner of Poland).\n\nThe great synagogue (famous Brody Kloiz) was founded in 1742 with the initiative of Mose Rokach.\n\nThe first known rabbis of Brody were:\n\n\nAmong the later line of Brody rabbis we find:\n\n\nBrody fostered a number of Maggids and Kabblists including Mose Ostrer, Arje Löb Podhaicer, Salomo or Shlomo Kluger.\n\nBrody Synagogue housed the leaders of Jewish \"intelligentsia\" such as Yechezkel Landau and Meyer Margolis. Already mentioned city rabbi Eleazar Rokach was the head rabbi of Brody for 20 years. According to tradition, he was a descendent from the house of King David. He was named after his great-grandfather, rabbi Elazar of Germiza (Mainz), a famous 12th century Kabbalist. He moved from Brody to Amsterdam, Holland. The people of Brody tried unsuccessfully to stop Rabbi Elazar from moving on to Amsterdam, where he and was received with great honor both by Jewish leaders and by representatives of the Dutch government. An interesting legendary story had been told about rabbi Elazar of Brody by his descendent Rabbi Sholom Rokeach the Admor of Belz, that when Rabbi Elazar arrived in Holland, the country was suffering from a plague of worms. The entire country was facing a ruin in the threat of being devoured by the huge numbers of worms. The Dutch king heard about the newly arriving tzaddik of Brody, and asked him for prayer in order to remove this danger. Rabbi Elazar went to the fields to pray. After finishing his prayer, the entire Netherlands witnessed a wonder: the worms came out of the ground and fell fatally into the sea. As a \"reward\" for Rabbi Elazar's help, a special coin was issued. The commemorative coin was minted by the Dutch government for the occasion, bearing the Rabbi's face and two verses from Psalms. How much truth is in this story, we do not know, however, the authority and influence of Brody Rabbi Elazar were undisputed. After leaving Brody he served for 5 years as head rabbi of Amsterdam. Later he immigrated to the Holy Land settling in Tsfat, where he died and was buried.\n\nOther famous rabbi associated with Brody was maggid (the preacher) Shlomo Kluger. Rabbi Kluger (1789–1869) was known as the Preacher or Maggid of Brody, and by his acronym Maharshak. He served for fifty years in the Rabbinate of Brody, and was the author of some 174 known books. He was a fierce defender of Judaic traditionalism against the onslaught of the modernistic \"Enlightenment\" ideology. His \"Hokhmat Shlomo\" (wisdom of Solomon if translated from Hebrew, compare 1 Kings 5:10, 14) vividly presents his great erudition in Torah and spiritual subjects, as he compares the views of different authorities and seeks to resolve apparent contradictions between them.\n\nNahum Gelber reports a story how Maggid Kluger attempted to leave Brody having accepted the invitation of Berezhany community and by an unlucky providence was forced to return to Brody. In 1843, Rabbi Kluger left his community in Brody and accepted the invitation of the community Berezhany community who, in 1845, elected him the supreme judicial authority. Despite the pleas of the Brody community leaders, the Magid left Brody and moved to Berezhany. In the winter of 1845, a delegation from Brody arrived in Berezhany and took him back to their town. In Berezhany he was received with great honor, especially by Rabbi Arie Leibush Natanson, father of the Lvov Rabbi, Rabbi Joseph Saul Nathanson, who had served as a Rain Berezhany prior to his appointment as a Rabbi in Lvov. A few days after his first sermon in Berezhany, the Magid caught typhus. He was sick for many years, and through this understood that he should not had left Brody. He vowed to leave Berezhany and return to Brody as soon as he got better, and no pleading on behalf of Berezhany messengers changed his mind. He resided in Brody as a private person, refraining from intruding into the activities of Brody's new Teacher of Justice. His admirers, and especially Rabbi Joseph Natanson, supported him for the rest of his life.\n\nSource article (written by the uploader and contributor of the Wikipedia version)\n\n"}
{"id": "11305822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11305822", "title": "Honorifics in Judaism", "text": "Honorifics in Judaism\n\nThere are a number of honorifics in Judaism that vary depending on the status of, and the relationship to, the person to whom one is referring.\n\nThe word \"rabbi\", which means a religious \"teacher\", is commonly used in English to refer to any ordained Jewish scholar.\n\nLiterally, \"Rabbi\" means \"my master\". It is the same Hebrew word as \"Rav\", (see below) with the possessive suffix \"i\". Although it is technically a possessive form, it is used as a general title even for those who are not one's personal teacher, particularly for the Tannaim, and, in its English form, for any rabbi.\n\nIn Israel, among the Haredim, \"Rabbi\" can be used colloquially interchangeably with the Yiddish \"Reb\", and is used as a friendly title, similar to calling someone \"Sir\".\n\n\"Rav\" is the Hebrew word for \"master,\" and is closely related to the Hebrew form which gives rise to the English \"Rabbi.\" \"Rav\" can be used as a generic honorific for a teacher or a personal spiritual guide, similar to Rabbi.\n\nIn Modern Hebrew, \"Rav\" is used for all rabbis, equivalent to the English \"Rabbi.\" It can also be used as a prefix to a profession or title to show high rank or profficiency. For example: רב חובל, rav-sailor, meaning \"ship captain\", or רב אומן, rav-artist, meaning master of a craft or art.\n\nIn the Orthodox non-Hebrew speaking world, \"Rabbi\" is often used as a lesser title, with more famous rabbis receiving the title \"Rav\".\n\nWhen used alone, \"the \"Rav\"\" refers to the posek (Jewish legal decisor) whom the speaker usually consults.\n\nIn some communities, \"Rav\" is also used like \"Reb\". This is common in Judeo-Czech.\n\nRebbe may refer to the leader of a Hasidic Judaism movement, a person's main rosh yeshiva (a rabbi who is the academic head of a school) or mentor, or to an elementary school teacher as referred to by his/her students. \n\nIn many Hasidic groups the Rebbe gives spiritual guidance; but for questions of halakhah they ask a \"Rav\". This \"Rav\" is sometimes referred to as the \"Rav\" of the Hasidic group. This position normally is occupied by the Av Beis Din or chief justice, of a Hasidic group. In some Hasidic groups, such as Belz and Satmar, the Rebbe and \"Rav\" are concurrent positions. In Hasidic groups with similar organizations, the Admo\"r will be referred to by the interchangeable titles. In those groups where the positions are divided, they will not. For example, the Satmar \"Rav\" and the Satmar Rebbe are the same person. The Breslover Rebbe and the Breslover \"Rav\" are not.\n\nOther honorifics include \"Admo\"r\", \"K'vod K'dushas\", \"Shlit\"a\" and \"Shy\"'.\n\nHebrew honorific for a teacher, professor, or learned sage. Moreh is masculine, Morah is feminine.\n\n\"Admor\" is an acronym for \"Adonainu, Morainu, VeRabbeinu,\" a phrase meaning \"Our Master, Our Teacher, and Our Rebbe.\" This is an honorific title given to scholarly leaders of a Jewish community. In writing, this title is placed before the name, as in \"Admor of Pinsk\" or “R' (stands for Rabbi, Rav, or Reb) Ploni Almoni, Admor of Redomsk.”\n\nThis term is used to point to the leaders of the generation, for example Rav Ahron Leib Shteinman.\n\n\"Hakham\" (wise one) is an alternate title for rabbis (especially Sephardic ones) but also includes some sages (such as ben Zoma and ben Azzai who were never formally ordained). It is also the primary title of Karaite spiritual leaders, perhaps on the Sephardic model but also to emphasize their role as advisors rather than authorities.\n\n\"K'vod K'dushat,\" meaning “The honor of [his] holiness”. This title is usually placed before the name. It is found as early as in the 1531 edition of The Aruk.\n\nThe word \"Maskil\" or \"ha-maskil\" indicates a scholar or an \"enlightened man\", used before the name. It was also used for activists in the Haskalah movement of the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\n'Shlit\"a' (or sometimes 'SHLYT\"A') is an acronym for \"Sheyikhye Le'orech Yamim Tovim Amen,\" “May he live a good long life, Amen,” given to a revered rabbi or to someone's child's Rebbe (teacher). This title is usually placed after the name and/or other title(s).\n\nExamples:\n\n\"Shy'\" is an acronym for \"Sheyikhye,\" meaning “May he live”. This title is usually placed after the name.\n\nIn reference to levite descent. Used preceding surname.\n\nIn reference to Priestly descent. Used preceding surname.\n"}
{"id": "1975598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1975598", "title": "Islam and Dhimmitude: Where Civilizations Collide", "text": "Islam and Dhimmitude: Where Civilizations Collide\n\nIslam and Dhimmitude: Where Civilizations Collide is a book by Bat Ye'or.\n\nMichael Sells, John Henry Barrows Professor of Islamic History and Literature at the University of Chicago, argued that \"by obscuring the existence of pre-Christian and other old, non-Christian communities in Europe as well as the reason for their disappearance in other areas of Europe, Bat Ye’or constructs an invidious comparison between the allegedly humane Europe of Christian and Enlightenment values and the ever present persecution within Islam. Whenever the possibility is raised of actually comparing circumstances of non-Christians in Europe to non-Muslims under Islamic governance in a careful, thoughtful manner, Bat Ye’or forecloses such comparison.\"\n\nNorman A. Stillman of Israel Studies Forum, says \"For Bat Ye'or dhimmitude is itself a civilisation, which she defines as \"a comprehensive system of laws, traditions and culture evolving in duration according to specific and structural parameters, which maintain its homogeneity, its behavioural patterns and their transmission.\" Dhimmitude she argues is not only a civilisation, but it is the mindset and behaviour patterns of the non-Muslim people's themselves. The dhimmi \"mentalite\" is marked by sectarian isolationism, economic rivelry with other dhimmis and a mutual antipathy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39311815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39311815", "title": "Juan Francisco Larrobla", "text": "Juan Francisco Larrobla\n\nJuan Francisco de Larrobla Pereyra (Montevideo, 9 January 1775 - Canelones, 5 July 1842) was a Uruguayan Roman Catholic cleric, theologian and patriot.\n\nLarrobla studied at the Real Colegio de San Carlos in Buenos Aires and afterwards theology at the University of Córdoba. He was ordained priest shortly before 1800 and served in the Banda Oriental. Although a royalist, soon he had a feeling for the patriots.\n\nOn 25 August 1825 he presided over the House of Representatives of the Oriental Province, an assembly of patriots which approved three Laws:\n\nHe was also involved in the improvement and expansion of the Church of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Canelones.\n\nHis eldest sister Jacoba was mother of priest Lorenzo Antonio Fernández.\n\nHis youngest brother Luis de la Robla was the first postmaster of independent Uruguay.\n"}
{"id": "47193708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47193708", "title": "Kamini (Hinduism)", "text": "Kamini (Hinduism)\n\nKamini is a female Hindu name of Sanskrit origin.\n"}
{"id": "3246681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3246681", "title": "Kaumodaki", "text": "Kaumodaki\n\nKaumodaki (IAST: Kaumodakī) is the gada (mace) of the Hindu god Vishnu. Vishnu is often depicted holding the Kaumodaki in one of his four hands; the other attributes are the chakra, the conch and the lotus. The gada is also found in iconography of some of Vishnu's avatars.\n\nThe name \"Kaumodaki\" first appears in the Hindu epic \"Mahabharata\" , where it is associated with Vishnu's avatar Krishna. The gada is depicted in images of Vishnu since c. 200 BCE. While initially unadorned, the size and shape of Kaumodaki vary in depictions. More elaborate design features like flutes and segments were added in depictions of Vishnu's gada.\n\nThough the weapon may be depicted as an inanimate gada, Kaumodaki sometimes appears personified as a woman known as Gadadevi or Gadanari in sculptures of Vishnu. In depictions that use this version, Vishnu rests one of his hands on her head, while she herself holds the gada, is seen emerging from it or has the gada carved on her head/crown.\n\nThe gada, regarded as one of the oldest and strongest weapons, is a symbol of Vishnu's powers. Various texts discuss the symbolism of Kaumodaki in Vishnu's iconography.\n\nThe etymology of \"Kaumodaki\" is unclear. According to a popular etymology, Kaumodaki derives its name from the Sanskrit word \"kumuda\", the blue water-lily or the blue lotus (\"Nymphaea nouchali\"). Another theory suggests that the mace may derive its name from the epithet of Vishnu, \"Kumodaka\" or vice versa. The literal synonym of Kaumodaki, \"kaumudi\" is interpreted as \"joy on the earth\". Based on the \"Vishnu Purana\", Alain Daniélou translates Kaumodaki as \"stupefier of the mind\".\n\nVishnu is usually depicted as four-armed with the four attributes in his hands: the shankha (conch), the Sudarshana chakra, the \"padma\" (lotus) and the Kaumodaki gada. A popular epithet of Vishnu is \"Shankha-chakra-gada-pani\", \"he who holds in his hands shankha, chakra and gada\". Generally, the gada is held in the lower (natural) left hand of Vishnu in contemporary images. The gada sometimes also appears in the depictions of Vishnu's avatars Matsya, Kurma, Varaha and Narasimha.\n\nThe gada appears as an attribute in the oldest known sculpture of Vishnu (from Malhar, Madhya Pradesh), dated to c. 200 BCE. One of the earliest images of Vishnu date to the Kushan period (30–375 CE) found around Mathura, the gada does not appear in a stylised design as in later depictions, but the mace is a simple \"round top-heavy rod\" held in his upper (back) right hand and lifted above the shoulders. In another Kushan sculpture, the gada is depicted as a long rod which is almost the height of Vishnu and is held in his upper right hand. It is depicted similar to a long pestle (\"musala\"). A similar image found in Jhusi as well as early images from Western India depict Vishnu resting his upper right hand on the mace or holding the mace in this hand. Gupta images continue the trend of having upper (back) right hand resting on or holding the gada. The gada started being depicted in other arms. Twenty-four configurations of Vishnu images are noted, where the order of the four attributes is changed.\n\nWhile the hand holding the gada changed, the design of the weapon transformed too. In late medieval art, especially Pala (8th–12th century CE), the size of the handle of the gada is reduced to a flute, while the top takes a highly decorated round form. In Uttar Pradesh, the handle is tapered and expands at the top; sphere on the top also depicted with flutes. The Chalukyan gada is thick and \"barrel\"-shaped, while the Pallava gada is depicted thick throughout. The Cholas carve Kaumodaki thinner, but is ridged and segmented.\nThe \"Vishnudharmottara Purana\" describes the iconography of Vishnu. While the lotus and shankha are held in the upper hands, the lower hands rest on two dwarf figures: the personified gada and chakra. The gada personified as a slim-waisted woman, holds a \"chamara\" (chowry) in her hands and is adored with ornaments, with Vishnu's right hand resting on her head; chakra stands as a man on Vishnu's left. The personified weapons known as \"Ayudhapurusha\" emerge in Gupta era (320–550 CE) sculptures. The personified Kaumodaki is also known as Gada-devi (the suffix \"devi\" means goddess) or Gada-nari (\"gada-woman\"). Since the Sanskrit word \"gada\" is feminine, gada is regarded as a woman. A Gupta Vishnu in Udayagiri Caves depicts Vishnu accompanied by Gadadevi and the personified chakra. Gadadevi often appears in Vishnu images from Kashmir, including Vishnu's four-headed form Vaikuntha Chaturmurti. She holds a \"chamara\" and looks in adoration towards her master, whose hand rests on her head. She wears a crown or has an elaborate hairstyle. Apart from a lower garment, she might wear a blouse or have a bare torso. She is depicted emerging from the gada.\n\nGadadevi may be depicted as a dwarf or as a normal human as in the \"Sheshashayi Vishnu\" panel of the Gupta Deogarh temple. She is depicted holding the gada. The motif of Kaumodaki holding the gada is mostly found in Uttar Pradesh and Bengal art. In another variation, Kaumodaki stands besides Vishnu with folded hands (in anjali mudra posture) with the gada depicted on the head as part of the crown or the weapon mark on her forehead, as in Chola era bronzes of the gada.\n\nThe mace or club is one of the oldest types of weapons. The popularity of the weapons with Vishnu worshippers may have led to its depiction with the deity. The gada – a symbol of strength – was a common weapon for hand-to-hand combat and was regarded as the strongest of weapons. Vishnu's attributes originate from his avatars, Rama and Krishna, the heroes of the ancient Hindu epics \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\" (existing in the 5th to 4th century BCE) respectively. Both the epics narrate various characters – gods, men and demons alike – using the gada.\n\nIn the philosophical meaning expounded by the Vishnu-worshipping Vaishnava sect, Kaumodaki symbolizes \"the intellect, the power of knowledge and the power of time\". While explaining the symbolism of four attributes in Vishnu's hands, the \"Gopala Tapani Upanishad\" says that the gada – which represents primordial knowledge – is held in the lower left hand, which denotes \"individual existence\". The \"Vishnu Purana\" calls the gada the power of knowledge. Kaumodaki is said to \"intoxicate\" the mind.\n\nAccording to the \"Vishnudharmottara Purana\", Kaumodaki represents Vishnu's wife Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and beauty. The \"Krishna Upanishad\" equates the gada to the goddess Kali, \"the power of time\". The text further says that like the invincible Time, the mace is the destroyer of all opponents.\n\nAnother interpretation suggests that the Kaumodaki symbolizes the life-force (\"prana\") from which all \"physical and mental powers\" arise. Vishnu's gada also stands for discipline, complemented by his lotus, that denotes praise. While the lotus and shankha in his hands are water symbols representing life and love, the gada and the chakra are fire symbols denoting pain and destruction and command adherence to the rules of society and nature. The \"Varaha Purana\" says the gada is to teach a lesson to irreligious rulers. Vishnu is also said to clear illusion by his gada.\n\nIn the \"Mahabharata\", Kaumodaki is described to sound like the lightning and was capable of slaying many daityas (demons). It is granted to Vishnu-Krishna by Varuna, the god of the seas. The Pandava princes were given the Khandava Forest to build their kingdom. The fire-god Agni wanted to \"eat\" the forest to cure his indigestion. He asked the Pandava Arjuna and his friend Krishna to aid him, as he feared the king of the gods and protector of the forest, Indra, will interfere. Arjuna and Krishna agreed and were given celestial weapons by Varuna. Krishna was given the Sudarshana chakra and Kaumodaki gada, while Arjuna got the bow Gandiva and various divine arrows. The duo defeat Indra and Agni burns down the forest, pacing way for the establishment of the Pandava capital Indraprastha.\n\nThe \"Mahabharata\" describes Vishnu holding a gada and a chakra, possibly indicating two-armed images of Vishnu. The \"Mahabharata\" also records at the time of the chakra-musala war, Krishna's Kaumodaki along with other weapons appear in human form from the heavens to watch the battle. The \"Harivamsa\", an appendix to the \"Mahabharata\" describes four of Vishnu's weapons fall from the heavens to aid Krishna and his brother Balarama in his battle against Jarasandha. Balarama uses the plough and the club called Saunanda; while Krishna battles with Kaumodaki and the bow Sharanga.\n\nThe \"Duta-Vakya\" (\"envoy's message\") of the Sanskrit playwright Bhasa (c. 2nd century BCE – 2nd century CE) describes an episode from the \"Mahabharata\" when Krishna depicts his \"Vishvarupa\" (all pervading \"Universal form\") in the Hastinapur court and summons his weapons, who appear as humans, including the Kaumodaki. The \"Raghuvamsa\" of Kalidasa mentions dwarf-like ayudhapurushas including Vishnu's mace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15042715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15042715", "title": "Kawasaki Daishi", "text": "Kawasaki Daishi\n\nHeiken-ji is known formally as .\n"}
{"id": "5347895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5347895", "title": "Khalwa", "text": "Khalwa\n\nKhalwa (Arabic, also khalwat; lit., \"solitude\"; pronounced in Iran, \"khalvat\"; spelling in Turkish, \"halvet\") has several meanings in Sufism, Islamic jurisprudence, and the Druze religion, which in some way derive from the concept of being alone or withdrawing from the world. \n\nIn Sufism, a solitary retreat, traditionally for 40 days (see \"chella\"), during which a disciple does extensive spiritual exercises under the direction of a Sufi master.\n\nA Sufi murid will enter the khalwa spiritual retreat under the direction of a shaykh for a given period, sometimes for as long as 40 days, emerging only to pray and, usually, to discuss dreams, visions and live with the shaykh. Once a major element of Sufi practice, khalwa has become less frequent in recent years.\n\nIt is the act of total self-abandonment in desire for the Divine Presence. In complete seclusion, the Sufi continuously repeats the name of God as a highest form of dhikr, remembrance of God. Then, \"Almighty God will spread before him the degrees of the kingdom as a test\".\n\nOther Sufi uses include:\n\nIn Islamic jurisprudence, it is a state in which two people, male and female, are alone and, if unmarried, it is a state from which they ought to remove themselves. For example, in Malaysia in 2009, 197 students \"were caught for \"khalwat\"\" in the state of Kuala Terengganu within seven months. Muslims there who are unmarried, non-relatives of a person of the opposite sex can be apprehended by state religious police under the offence of \"khalwat\" (being in \"close proximity\" as \"The Star Online\" described it). Religious Department enforcement officers can conduct \"checks, surveillance and raids to curtail \"khalwat\" cases,\" catch \"students from secondary schools and higher learning institutes...for \"khalwat\"\" and advise \"youth organisations and student leaders on the bane of committing \"khalwat\".\"\n\nKhalwat al-Bayada is the name of the prayer-houses of the Druze religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2679814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2679814", "title": "Khurramites", "text": "Khurramites\n\nThe Khurramites ( \"Khorram-Dīnân\", meaning \"those of the Joyful Religion\") were an Iranian religious and political movement with its roots in the movement founded by Mazdak. An alternative name for the movement is the \"Muḥammira\" (, \"Red-Wearing Ones\"; in \"Sorkh-Jâmagân\"), a reference to their symbolic red dress.\n\nThe sect was founded in the 8th century CE by the Persian cleric Sunpadh and was a revitalization of an earlier sect that had mixed Shī‘a Islam and Zoroastrianism; however, its true claim to fame was its adoption by Bābak Khorramdin as a basis for rebelling against the Abbasid Caliphate.\n\nThe sect grew out of a response to the execution of Abu Muslim by the Abbasids, and denied that he had died, rather claiming that he would return as the messiah. This message was further confirmed by the appearance of a prophet named al-Muqanna‘ \"The Veiled\", who claimed that the spirit of God had existed in Muhammad, ‘Alī and Abu Muslim.\n\nUnder the leadership of Bābak, the Khurammites proclaimed the breakup and redistribution of all the great estates and the end to despotic foreign rule. Taking advantage of the turmoil created by the Abbasid civil war, in 816 they began making attacks on Muslim forces in Iran and Iraq. The Abbasid suppression of the rebellion led to the flight of many thousand Khurramites to Byzantium, where they were welcomed by emperor Theophilos and enrolled in the Byzantine army under their Iranian leader, Theophobos.\n\nAl-Maqdisi mentions several facts. He observes that \"the basis of their doctrine is belief in light and darkness\"; more specifically, \"the principle of the universe is Light, of which a part has been effaced and has turned into Darkness\". They \"avoid carefully the shedding of blood, except when they raise the banner of revolt\". They are \"extremely concerned with cleanliness and purification, and with approaching people with kindness and beneficence\". Some of them \"believed in free sex, provided that the women agreed to it, and also in the freedom of enjoying all pleasures and of satisfying one's inclinations so long as this does not entail any harm to others\". (their name is most frequently derived from the Persian word \"khurram\" \"happy, cheerful\"). Regarding the variety of faiths, they believe that \"the prophets, despite the difference of their laws and their religions, do not constitute but a single spirit\". Naubakhti states that they also believe in reincarnation (metempsychosis) as the only existing kind of afterlife and retribution and in the cancellation of all religious prescriptions and obligations. They highly revere Abu Muslim and their imams. In their rituals, which are rather simple, they \"seek the greatest sacramental effect from wine and drinks\". As a whole, they were estimated by Al-Maqdisi as \"Mazdaeans... who cover themselves under the guise of Islam\".\n\nAccording to Turkish scholar Abdülbaki Gölpinarli, the Qizilbash (\"Red-Heads\") of the 16th century – a religious and political movement in Azerbaijan that helped to establish the Safavid dynasty – were \"spiritual descendants of the Khurramites\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1456243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1456243", "title": "Kodava people", "text": "Kodava people\n\nThe term Kodava (ಕೊಡವ) has two related usages. Firstly, it is the name of the Kodava language and culture followed by a number of communities from Kodagu. Secondly, within the Kodava - speaking communities and region (Kodagu) it describes the dominant Kodava people. The Kodavas (Kodava, anglicised as Coorgs), are considered a patrilineal ethno-lingual tribe from the region of Kodagu, (in Karnataka state of southern India), who natively speak the Kodava language. Traditionally they were land-owning agriculturists with martial customs. They practice family exogamy and caste endogamy.\n\nThe words \"Kodava\" (the indigenous people, language and culture) and \"Kodagu\" (the land) come from the same root word 'Koda' of unknown meaning. Some claim it means 'hills', others say it means 'west' but both relate to the Western Ghats' location. Kodagu is called \"Kodava Naad\" in the native Kodava language. The community members were called Kodava by the other natives and Coorgs by the British. They are ethnically and culturally distinct people. For centuries, the Kodavas have lived in Kodagu cultivating paddy fields, maintaining cattle herds and carrying arms during war.\n\nThere are a variety of theories as to the origin of the Kodava, including theories of them being either the indigenous inhabitants of their region, or of foreign origins before two thousand years ago. However the foreign theories are mere speculations because they have found no concrete evidences.\n\n\n\nHistorians agree that the Kodavas have lived in Kodagu for over a thousand years, hence they are the earliest agriculturists and probably the oldest settled inhabitants of the area.\n\n\nThe Hindu Puranas (Kaveri Purana of Skanda Purana) claim that Chandra Varma, a Chandravanshi Kshatriya (lunar dynasty warrior) and son of Emperor of Matsya Desha, was the ancestor of this 'fierce' race, the Kodavas. An ardent devotee of Goddess Parvati, he had gone on pilgrimage to several holy places all over India. Chandra Varma had a privy army who escorted him on his campaigns until he came into Kodagu(Coorg). Coorg, the source of the River Kaveri, was uninhabited jungle land when he arrived to settle here. Thereafter he became the first Raja of the Coorg principality. He had 11 sons, the eldest among them was Devakantha who later succeeded him as Raja. They were married to the daughters of the Raja of Vidarbha. These sons and their descendants cultivated and populated the land of Kodagu, they came to be called the Kodava race.\n\n\"Early Rajas\"\n\nThe Kadamba ruled North Karnataka along with Goa and parts of Maharashtra while the Gangas ruled South Karnataka and parts of Andhra and Tamil Nadu prior to 1000AD. The regions of Hassan, Kodagu (Coorg), Tulunad and Waynad were ruled between them. Later the cholas entered Karnataka to rule, but it was short lived. The Hoysalas succeeded them and ruled Southern Karnataka (including Tulunad and Coorg) and parts of Tamil Nadu. In the aftermath of the Delhi Sultanate invasion of South India (around 1319) the Vijaynagara Hindu Empire arose to rule South India until their downfall in the 16th century.\n\n\"Haleri Rajas\"\n\nFrom around 1600 until 1834 the Haleri Rajas ruled over Coorg. Under the Paleri (Haleri) dynasty Kodagu attained a status as an independent kingdom. When Linga Raja I died, Hyder Ali imprisoned the royal family and took direct control of Kodagu. This enraged the Kodavas and they started heckling the Muslim garrison in Madikeri. In 1782 the Kodavas took power back from Hyder Ali.\n\nIn the same year, Hyder Ali died and his son Tippu Sultan started his ambitious expansion of the Mysore kingdom. In 1784, Tippu attacked Kodagu, while returning from Mangalore to Srirangapattana, his capital city.\n\nTippu never could continuously hold power in Kodagu 7 lost on multiple occasions. As soon as he turned his back on Kodagu, the Kodavas revolted and took power back from the Muslim rulers. Tippu returned to reclaim control for a short period though he found the Kodavas very hostile.\nIn 1788, Dodda Vira Rajendra, who had been taken prisoner, escaped and defeated Tippu and recovered his kingdom. In 1790 Dodda Vira Rajendra signed a treaty with the British, who promised to protect his kingdom against Tippu’s onslaught. In 1792 Kodagu became independent of Mysore once again. Eventually, the Kodavas backed the British troops and Tippu fell in the year 1799. In addition to the kings' samadhis (tombs), samadhis were built for the Diwans. Samadhis were built for army chief Biddanda Bopu, who was the commander-in-chief for the army of Dodda Vira Rajendra, and his son Biddanda Somaiah. On the samadhi of Biddanda Bopu, there is a plate carved in Kannada praising him for his bravery shown in the wars fought against Tipu Sultan.\n\n\"Coorg War\"\n\nIn 1834 the last of the Haleri Rajas Chikka Vira Raja fell out of favour with the British who then intervened by invading Kodagu. A short but bloody campaign occurred in which a number of British men and officers were killed. Near Somwarpet where the Coorgs were led by Mathanda Appachu the resistance was most furious. But this Coorg campaign came to a quick end when the Raja sent his Diwan Apparanda Bopu to surrender to the British and lead them from Kushalnagar into Madikeri. Thereafter Kodagu was annexed by the British and the Raja was exiled. Apparanda Bopu and Cheppudira Ponnappa were retained as the Dewans of Coorg.\n\n\"Freedom Struggle\"\n\nThe so-called Coorg rebellion of 1837 actually occurred in Sulya which was separated from Coorg Province in 1834 and attached to South Canara district of Madras Province. Led by Guddemane Appaiah Gowda and others it was not due to Gowdas alone nor opposed by all Kodavas, this was a 'divide-and-rule' propaganda of the British Raj. \"A large number of people from Coorg settled in Lower Coorg also participated in the revolt... There are no reliable sources which prove such a bitter hatred among the Coorgs and the Gowdas of Sullia.\" In fact, Kodavas from Nalkunadu led by Subedar Mandira Uthaiah (Nalknadu Uttu) actively participated in the revolt.\n\nDuring British rule, Coorgs entered politics, government service, medicine, education, and law. Under British protection, Kodagu became a State with nominal independence (Coorg State). The British recognised the exceptional martial abilities of the Kodavas and used them in their army. Many Kodavas fought in the two World Wars. They earned a reputation as able commanders and brave fighters both under the British rule as well as post independent India in all wings of defence. Eventually, famous sons of Kodagu became prominent members of the armed forces of India. General K.S. Thimayya DSO and Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa OBE are among the notables along with many other top officers .Dewan Bahadur Ketolira Chengappa was the last Chief Commissioner of Coorg in 1947. In 1950 Coorg was recognised as one of 27 different states of the Indian Union but in 1956 the state of Coorg was merged into Mysore (now Karnataka).\n\nThere were many freedom fighters among the Kodavas as well, like Iynanda P. Kariappa, who was a leader of the INC and was sent to Delhi Jail by the British, he later on became the first MLA of Coorg State, and was also the District board President. Pandyanda Belliappa (Kodagu's Gandhi), Kollimada C. Carumbaiah, C.M. Poonacha, Chekkera Monnaiah, Mallengada Chengappa, Ajjikuttira Chinnappa, Ponnimada Machaiah, Kalengada Chinnappa, Chokira Madappa, Pandikanda Madappa, Kotera Accavva, Balyatanda Muddavva, Mukkatira Bojamma, Machimanda Medakka, Appanderanda Kalamma and others. It is noteworthy that there was an army of freedom fighters from the Kodava community such as Puliyanda Subbaiah from Maggula village.\n\nKodavas have distinctive dresses, the men wearing wraparound robes called the Kupya (now only seen at ceremonial occasions), and the women with a distinctive style of wearing the sari. The Kodava woman wears a sari with the pleats at the back and the loose end pinned at the right shoulder. The men have many distinctive practices such as carrying ceremonial knives, and martial war dances.\n\nBoiled rice (koolu) and rice gruel (kanjee) formed the staple food of the Kodavas. The coconut, jackfruit, plantain, mango and other fruits and vegetables were widely used. Ghee was used in well-to-do families and on festive occasions. Rice in the form of Kanji or Koolu was served at meals along with curries and other additional dishes. Non-vegetarian food was not objectionable and alcoholic drinks as a rule weren't prohibited. Pork, chicken, river fish, were commonly consumed as also were varieties of game meat. Sweet dishes like akki payasa were prepared during festive occasions. Other special dishes included otti (rice roti), paaputtu (similar to idli), noolputtu (rice noodles), thambuttu (a sweet), etc.\n\nGirls and boys from one okka cannot marry within the same okka. However, cousin marriage between children of a brother and sister is accepted (but not between children of two brothers or two sisters). Once married, a girl assumes the okka name of her husband. Unlike many other Hindu communities, a widow is still allowed to participate in happy occasions like the marriages of her children. She is the principal figure to conduct the marriage ceremony that traditionally is conducted without a Brahmin priest. A widow is allowed to remarry and this is a common practice as it is fully accepted.\n\nKodava settlements in Coorg are in the form of Okka family groups that are scattered across agricultural and forested holdings, where traditional Ainmane houses form focal meeting points in the rural landscape. It is a joint patrilineal clan with males of common ancestry. The male members of an okka share an okka name. Currently there are about 1000 okka names and families in Kodagu. Traditionally all the members of an okka lived in a large ancestral Ainemane house (ayyangada mane – House of the Elders). The emergence of townships, as such, has been a relatively recent phenomenon and many of the main towns in Kodagu are inhabited by recent migrants and non-Kodavas. This cluster of homes and property form the nucleus of a village called ur. A group of ur or villages is called the nad. A number of nads make a sime. Traditionally there were eight simes in Kodagu. The land belonging to the okka is cultivated jointly by the family members and cannot be partitioned or sold. The oldest member of the family is the head of the okka and is called pattedara or koravukara. It is a hierarchy that is passed on to the eldest member of the clan by right. Similarly each ur (or ooru), nad and sime has a headman called as takka. The takkas settled disputes and imparted justice after consultation with other elders.\n\nKodava festivities center around their agriculture and military tradition. Originally most of their lives were spent in the field: cultivating, harvesting and guarding their fields from the depredations of wild animals, or otherwise they were either waging war or hunting for game. Their new year was originally celebrated on Bishu Changrandi (called Vishu in Kerala and Chithirai Thirunal in Tamil Nadu). The Kodavas began to celebrate a few Hindu festivals such as Ugadi, Ayudha Puja (Dasara, also called Navratri, Vijaydashami, Durga Puja or Dussehra) and Mahashivaratri under the Haleri Rajas(1602–1834). However Kodavas traditionally celebrate the following three main festivals peculiar to Kodagu alone (two are cultural and one religious):\n\nKailpoldu is celebrated on 3 September. Officially, the festival begins on the 18th day after the sun enters the Simha Raasi (the Western sign of Leo). Kail means weapon or armoury and Pold means festival. The day signifies the completion of \"nati\" – meaning the transplantation of the rice (paddy) crop. The festival signifies the day when men should prepare to guard their crop from wild boars and other animals, since during the preceding months, in which the family were engaged in the fields, all weapons were normally deposited in the \"Kanni Kombare\", or the prayer room. Hence on the day of Kailpoldu, the weapons are taken out of the Pooja room, cleaned and decorated with flowers. They are then kept in the \"Nellakki Nadubade\", the central hall of the house and the place of community worship. Each member of the family has a bath, after which they worship the weapons. Feasting and drinking follow. The eldest member of the family hands a gun to the senior member of the family, signifying the commencement of the festivities. The Menu for the day is Kadumbutte (Rice balls) and Pandhi Curry (Pork Curry) and Alcoholic beverages are also served. The whole family assembles in the \"Mand\" (open ground), where physical contests and sports, including marksmanship, are conducted. In the past the hunting and cooking of wild game was part of the celebration, but today shooting skills are tested by firing at a coconut tied onto the branch of a tall tree. Traditional rural sports, like grabbing a coconut from the hands of a group of 8–10 people (thenge porata), throwing a stone the size of a cricket ball at a coconut from a distance of 10–15 paces (thenge eed), lifting a stone ball of 30–40 cm lying at one's feet and throwing it backwards over the shoulders, etc., are now conducted in community groups called Kodava Samajas in towns and cities.\n\nThe Kaveri Sankramana festival normally takes place in mid-October. It is associated with the river Kaveri, which flows through the district from its source at Talakaveri.At a predetermined time, when the sun enters Tula Rasi (Tula sankramana), a fountain from a small tank fills the larger holy tank at Talakaveri. Thousands of people gather to dip in this holy water. The water is collected in bottles and reaches every home throughout Kodagu. This holy water is called Theertha, and is preserved in all Kodava homes. A spoonful of this water is fed to the dying, in the belief that they will attain \"moksha\" (spiritual emancipation) and gain entry to heaven. On this day, married women wearing new silk saris perform \"puja\" to a vegetable, symbolising the goddess Kaveri. The vegetable is usually a cucumber or a coconut, wrapped in a piece of red silk cloth and decorated with flowers and jewels (mainly 'Pathak' (Kodava Mangalasuthra)). This is called the Kanni Puje. The word Kanni denotes the goddess Parvati, who incarnated as Kaveri. Three sets of betel leaves and areca nut are kept in front of the goddess with bunches of glass bangles. All the members of the family pray to the goddess by throwing rice and prostrating themselves before the image. The elder members of the family ceremonially bless the younger. An older married woman then draws water from the well and starts cooking. The menu of the day is dosa and vegetable curry (usually pumpkin curry (kumbala kari) ) and payasa. Nothing but vegetarian food is cooked on this day, and this is the only festival which is strictly vegetarian. Alcohol is prohibited. The Kaveri cult has its center and origin in Kodagu. It is only those Kodava rites associated with the river Kaveri that are Brahmanical in influence.\n\nPuttari means \"new rice\" and is the rice harvest festival (also called Huttari in Kannada). This takes place in late November or early December. Celebrations and preparations for this festival start a week in advance. On the day of Puttari, the whole family assembles in their ain mane (the common family house), which is decorated with flowers and green mango and banana leaves. Specific foods are prepared: thambuttu, puttari, kari and poli poli. Then the eldest member of the family hands a sickle to the head of the family and one of the women leads a procession to the paddy fields with a lit lamp in her hands. The path leading to the field is decorated. A gunshot is fired to mark the beginning of the harvest, with chanting of \"Poli Poli Deva\" (prosperity) by all present. Then the symbolic harvesting of the crop begins. The rice is cut and stacked and tied in odd numbers and is carried home to be offered to the gods. The younger generation then lite fire crackers and revel, symbolising prosperity. Groups of youngsters visit neighbouring houses and show off their dancing skills and are given monetary gifts. A week later, this money is pooled and the entire village celebrates a communal dinner. All family members gather for this meal. Dinner normally consists of meat dishes, such as pork, and mutton curry. Alcoholic beverages are also served at such feasts in Coorg.\n\nThe Kodavas of Kodagu are all Hindus. They are polytheists who believe in reincarnation, revere the cow and originally worshipped the natural elements and their ancestors.\nchief deities are Bhagwathi (Lakshmi), Mahadeva (Shiva), Bhadrakali (a form of Parvati as Kali ), Aiyappa and Muthappa . Igguthappa, the most important local God, is an incarnation of Lord Subramani, the God of snakes, rain, harvest and rice (Incidentally, the famous Kukke Subramani temple located near Kodagu is dedicated to snakes, hence Subramani is the God of snakes despite the misconception that his carrier, the peacock, which eats grains and insects, is wrongly believed to kill and eat snakes). The reverence of various spirits in addition to the established gods of Hinduism is also part of their religion. This is similar to the bhuta aradhana of Tulunad. There are many spirits worshipped in Kodagu. The Kodavas also practised snake worship. Consumption of soma (liquor) and pork is permitted,\n\nThey maintained sacred groves on their public village lands from ancient times, hunting and cutting trees was prohibited in these woods called the Devakadu. However these days the government and private speculative land buyers have acquired these sacred groves and converted them into farms for monetary gains and with disrespect towards native religious feelings. The Kodavas believe in astrology as well. Generally they don't follow idol worship but believe in nature worship.\nOn their ancestral clan lands they have a shrine (Kaimada), which is the shrine of the clan's first ancestor (Guru Karana - Karana), where they offer prayers and obeisance. The spirits of departed souls who were prominent figures in the community and had done good deeds while they were alive were worshipped. These spirit gods do not have a set form of physical representation. Symbolically a piece of rock is sanctified and considered as such a spirit deity. A number of weapons, made of wood or metal, are kept in the Kaimadas. The shrine is usually made of clay or wood or covered with sheet metal, and housed within a roofed structure built near the entrance to the ain-mane. The founder of each clan (Okka), the Guru Karana, is worshipped by the members of that particular clan. Sometimes it is simply kept on a platform under a sap-exuding tree near the entrance of ainemane. Some clans conduct a karana kola, a dance of the ancestral spirit during which a Malayalee migrant dresses in elaborate colourful clothing and dances in a trance and acts as an oracle. During this ceremony he is symbolically possessed by the karana, the original founder of the particular clan.\n\nIn every home a lamp called Nellakki Bolucha is lit in honour of the Guru Karana. The lamp in the central hall is lit by the embers of the kitchen hearth every day. Kodavas were also nature worshippers revering sun, moon, earth, water and fire. Fire of the kitchen hearth is especially sacred. Each village had a Bhagwathi, each lane had a snake deity and each nad(region) had an Aiyappa. The Kodavas worshipped Mahadeva as well. Some of the main shrines of the Kodavas are the temples of Talakaveri, Bhagamandala, Padi Igguthappa, Peggala (Heggala), Kakot Parambu and Bythoor. The Kodavas also revere and visit the shrines of Kukke Subramanya and Dharmasthala Manjunatha in Tulunad.\n\nThe word Kodakar was the Malayalam word for a Kodava, and it comes from the word \"Kodag-kara\". The ancient Kodavas of Kodagu had land trade with Northern Malabar, especially with Thalassery (Tellicherry) port on the coast, and would also go on regular pilgrimage to the temples of the region. Devotees from Kodagu were, and still are, frequent visitors to the temples of Kannur and Waynad (districts of North Kerala). These temples are in places like Baithur or Bythoor (Vayathur and Ulikkal), Payyavoor, Parassinikkadavu, Thirunelli, Kanjirath, Nileshwar and Payyanur. Also the Nambima (Namboothiri) priests of North Malabar traditionally served as the temple priests in the temples of Kodagu. The folk songs of the Kodavas speak of the temple deities having originated in North Malabar. These folk songs while talking of Kodagu and its people also mention the temple regions as well as the Thiyya, Nambiya (Nambiar), the Nambima (Namboothiri) and the Nayamma (the Kodava word for Nair - in Malayalam Nayanmmar means Nairs) people of Northern Malabar.\n\nBaithurappa (Bythoorappa) is a chief deity of the Kodavas. The Puggera family of Kodavas were hereditary temple managers at the Bythoor (Vayathur, in Kerala and near Karnataka's Kodagu border) temple which was in the dominion of the Kalliat Nambiar, who like the Kolathiri (Chera Raja) was an ally of the Kodavas. Every year Kodavas from Southern Kodagu pilgrimage to this place. Likewise the Bovverianda and the Mundiolanda families of Kodavas were the hereditary temple managers at the Payyavur temple which was under the Kolathiri (Chera) kings. This is because a few of the Kodavas lived in North Malabar in the Taliparamba (ancient capital of the Cheras) region in the ancient past and fought on their side as mercenary soldiers.\nThe Kodavas revered weapons, such as guns and the traditional sword and dagger, which are essential for their ceremonial purposes and in accordance to their religious and cultural customs. The Kodavas stood guard at the Mysore, Mangalore and Malabar boundary posts. The support of the Kodagu native police, army and offices, held by Jamma ryots (native militia farmers, also called jamma tenure-holders), who were mostly Kodavas while including people from a few other communities as well, exempted the Kodavas from the 1861 Indian Arms Act. The 1878 Indian Arms Act listed among those groups of persons not restricted by the Act: \"all persons of Kodava race, and all jumma tenure-holders in Coorg who by their tenures are liable for police and military duties.\"\n\nThe Kodava language, called Kodava takk, is an independent and has quite a few words from languages of neighboring states as well as from Kannada. Kodava takk similarity in accent and pronunciation with that of Beary bashe, a dialect spoken by Bearys of Coastal Karnataka.\n\nFamily histories, rituals and other records were scripted on palm leaves by astrologers. These ancient, scripted leaves called Pattole (patt=palm, ole=leaf) are still preserved at Kodava Ainmanes. Appaneravanda Hardas Appachcha Kavi and Nadikerianda Chinnappa are the two important poets and writers of Kodava language. The Pattole Palame, a collection of Kodava folksongs and traditions compiled in the early 1900s by Nadikerianda Chinnappa, was first published in 1924. The most important Kodava literature, it is said to be one of the earliest, if not the earliest, collection of the folklore of a community in an Indian language. The fourth edition of the Pattole Palame was published in 2002 by the Karnataka Kodava Sahitya Academy. Nearly two thirds of the book consists of folksongs that were handed down orally through generations. Many of these songs are sung even today during marriage and death ceremonies, during our festivals relating to the seasons and during festivals in honour of local deities and heroes. Traditionally known as Balo Pat, these songs are sung by four men who beat dudis (drums) as they sing. The songs have haunting melodies and evoke memories of times long past. Kodava folk dances are performed to the beat of many of these songs. The Pattole Palame was written using the Kannada script originally; it has been translated into English by Boverianda Nanjamma and Chinnappa, grandchildren of Nadikerianda Chinnappa, and has been published by Rupa & Co., New Delhi.\n\nKodava people are the native speakers of Kodava language are origins of district of Kodagu. As per 1991 census, the speakers of Kodava Takk make up to 0.25% of the total population of the Karnataka state. According to \"Karnataka Kodava Sahitya Academy\", apart from Kodavas, 18 other ethnic groups speak Kodava Takk in and outside the district including Amma Kodavas, Kodava Heggade, Iri, Koyava, Banna, Madivala, Hajama, Kembatti, and Meda. Though the language has no script, recently a German linguist by name Gregg M. Cox developed a new writing system for the language known as the \"Coorgi-Cox alphabet\", used by a number of individuals within Kodagu. Some films are also produced in this language portraying the tradition, culture and nativity of the Kodavas. Kodava Cinema industry is very small and in the year 1972 first Kodava film was produced named 'Nada Mann Nada Kool' directed by S.R.Rajan (1972).\n\nThe Kodavas revered nature and their ancestors they formerly hunted for sport, the Kodavas would even conduct ceremonies symbolically uniting in marriage the spirits of killed tigers with the spirit of the hunter, highlighting the intimate relationship between Kodava culture and the wildlife living in their forest realm. Sacred groves, known as devarakadu (devara = God’s and kadu = forest), continue to be maintained in their natural state amongst the coffee plantations since the time of the Rajas. Each village has at least one devarakadu, which is believed to be an abode of the gods, with strict laws and taboos against poaching and felling of trees. These groves are also an important storehouse of biodiversity in the district.\n\nA system of land tenure, known as Jamma (privileged tenureship), was formerly instituted in Kodagu during the pre-colonial Paleri Dynasty of the Lingayat Rajas. Jamma agricultural lands were held almost exclusively by Kodavas as a hereditary right, and were both indivisible and inalienable. Importantly, rights over the adjacent uncultivated woods (bane) were also attached to Jamma tenure, such that relatively expansive agricultural-forestry estates have remained intact across Kodagu. The exclusion of plantation crops, such as coffee, from India’s Land Ceiling Act has further insulated these holdings from post independence land reform efforts across India. Importantly, rights over the adjacent forests (bane) were also attached to Jamma tenure, such that relatively expansive agricultural-forestry estates have remained intact across Kodagu. A unique feature of Jamma tenure is that tree rights remained with the Rajas, and were subsequently transferred to the colonial and post-independence governments and remains an import determinant of land use practices in the district.\n\nCoffee cultivatuion is widely believed to have been introduced in the western ghats from the Yemeni port of Mocha by the Muslim saint, Baba Budan, in the 16th century and some time after its introduction, coffee cultivation was embraced by the Kodavas in western Karnataka. Following the British annexation of Kodagu in 1834, large numbers of European planters began settling in the forested mountains to cultivate coffee, dramatically changing the economic and environmental management structures of Kodava society. Today, more than one third of India’s coffee is grown in Kodagu district, making it the most important coffee growing district in India, the world’s fifth largest coffee-producing country.\n\nThroughout the medieval period and until well into the 19th century, the Kodavas had a pre-eminent role in Kodagu. By the middle of the 19th century, however, this dominance started waning. British individuals bought large stretches of land in Coorg and founded plantations. Institutions like the joint family system began to disappear. A number of socio-religious reform movements in India took shape from the 1800s. The Kodavas also felt the need for reform in response to such changes. The sense of decline gave an impetus to the spirit of reform that expressed itself in the work of religious men like Sadguru Appayya Swami. Trouble arose for the community during the post-colonial years, after the Land Reform Act enacted in 1974. Many large land owners lost their lands to the tenants (land to the tiller) and the socio-economic structure of the prominent community of Kodavas changed irreversibly. These Land reforms led to massive loss of land-ownership by the Kodava gentry who were relegated to poverty overnight. The decline of Kodava dominance was however tempered by their conversion through the 20th century to the academic and professional classes and their dominance in Kodagu politics.\n\nEfforts by community leaders have brought together all Kodava groups the world over under an umbrella \" Federation of Kodava Samajas\". It is a federation of about 27 Kodava Samajas and is headquartered at Balagodu, Virajpet Taluk, Kodagu District.\n\nThe foundation of the Coorg Association (predecessor of the Bangalore Kodava Samaj) was laid in Bangalore, in 1912. The Kodava Samaja (R), Bangalore is an organisation created for the traditional and cultural conservation, social well-being and welfare of the Kodava community. It is headquartered at Vasanthnagar in the city of Bangalore in Karnataka State, India. Expatriate Kodavas both in other states of India as well as in countries other than India have formed Kodava Samajas (Kodava Associations) in their states and countries of domicile. Examples are the Bangalore Kodava Samaja (already mentioned) with 33 branches in Bangalore City, the Mysore Kodava Samaja, the Canadian Kodavas in North America and the Muscat Kodavas of Oman. These associations of non Kodagu origin retain the cultural uniqueness of the Kodavas at the same time adapting many practices to the times and country of their adoption. Lately, some organisations including the \"Codava National Council (CNC)\" and \"Kodava Rashtriya Samiti\" are demanding Kodava homeland status and autonomy to Kodagu district. The population of the Kodavas is around 1.5 lakh.\n\nThe Kodava community numbers about one-fifth out of a total population of over 500,000, in Kodagu. Many Kodava people have migrated to areas outside Kodagu, to other Indian cities and regions, predominantly to Bangalore, Mysore, Mangalore, Ooty, Chennai, Mumbai, Kerala, Hyderabad and Delhi for better job prospects. A few of them have now migrated outside India to foreign countries, like North America (the US and Canada), the Middle East (especially Dubai in UAE and Muscat in Oman), the UK and Australia (especially to Sydney where they are prominent members in the financial industry as well as contributing to the health industry).\n\nBesides the Kodavas there were other indigenous people who followed the same culture and spoke the same Kodava language. One of them, the Amma Kodavas, were believed to be the original priests’ at all important temples in Coorg including temples of Talakaveri, Igguthappa and Irupu. The religious customs and practices of the hill people of Coorg gradually and subtly began to be influenced by the Brahmin practises and rituals. The role of the Coorg priest, via: Amma Kodavas declined and that of the Brahmin priest increased. In due course, the Amma Kodavas had no role to play in the religious aspects of the people of Coorg.\n\nThe loss of this important role earned some powerful Brahmin sympathisers, one of whom was a Havyaka Brahmin Thimmapaya, who had a large following of Amma Kodavas. During the later part of the 19th century, it appears that an attempt was made for assimilating the Amma Kodavas into the Brahmin fold. One batch of Amma Kodavas performed the rites to wear the sacred thread. Another batch is reported to have done so early in the 20th Century. Both these batches were assigned the Gothra names of their Brahmin patrons. The process of assimilation did not move any further. Today, many of the Amma Kodavas wear the sacred thread, a large number of them performing the rites a day before marriage (not after puberty, as done by the mainstream Brahmins). There are as many, who do not wear the sacred thread. Some of the Amma Kodavas do not have gotras assigned to them. They are vegetarians and endogamous. However, all other social activities such as marriage, dress and festivals are similar to the Kodavas.\nThe Kodagu Heggades are another of these indigenous castes of Coorg although originally they were believed to have come from North Malabar. They have around 100 family names. They follow the Kodava habits and customs, dress like other Kodavas and speak Kodava Takk. The Kodagu Heggades and the Amma Kodavas are similar to the Kodavas and hence might have been related to them in the ancient past.\n\nKodava Maaple is a Muslim community residing in Kodagu district of Karnataka State in southern India. In Coorg many Kodavas were converted into Islam during the rule of Tippu Sultan in Coorg. They are called the 'Kodava Maaple' or 'Jamma Maaples' ( not to be confused with the Kerala Mappillas). However some of the Kodava Maaples have married with the Kerala Mappilas and Mangalore Bearys. They contract marriage alliances with the Muslims of Coorg, Mangalore and Kerala. The Kodava Maaples belong to Sunni Islam, refrain from alcohol and eat only Halal. They maintained their original Kodava clan names and dress habits and spoke Coorg language although now they do follow some Kerala Muslim and Beary customs also.\n\nThese include communities such as, Kodava Nair, Koleya, Airi, Malekudiya, Meda, Kembatti, Kapala, Kavadi, Kolla, Koyava, Banna, Golla, Kanya, Maleya and others. Many of these communities had migrated into Kodagu from the Canara, Mysore and the Malabar regions during the period of Haleri Dynasty and to a certain extent culturally ingrained themselves in the Kodava Society. They speak Kodava takk and follow the Kodava customs and habits to some extent.\n\nKodagu and Are Gowda\n(Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada Gowda) communities, as their name indicates, hail mostly from those districts. Originally they are the migrants from Ikkeri (Keladi) Maha Samsthana (present Shimoga, Chikka Magaluru and Hassan Districts). They were originally Natha Pantha and Shivaites owing allegiance to Kigga and Sringeri Matha. Later Emperor Vishnuvardhana's rule they became Vaishnavites and worship 'Tirupati Timmappa' (Balaji of Thirupati) and 'Sabbakka' (Sharada of Sringeri). They are also called Tuluva Gowdas as they spoke Tulu when they came from Ikkeri, later in the Haleri kingdom, and settled the Mangalore-Udupi (Dakshina Kannada-Udupi) region. They now speak the Are Bhashe or Gowda Kannada dialect of Tulu and Kannada. They are said to have 10 Kutumba and 18 Balis as their primordial root families, from which arose around a Nooru Mane or hundred families. In Kodagu, there were quite a few families settled in Kodagu from the time of Lingayat King of Coorg, Rev. G. Richter, in Gazetteer of Coorg (1870) lists them as Tulu Gowdas (Vokkaligas in Kodagu and Dakshin Kannada)who migrated to Coorg (Kodagu) from the Mangalor\n\nAround 2000, some of the Kodava language speakers were included in the Other Backward Classes list of Karnataka. The Kodavas were listed as \"Kodagaru\" (a derogatory term) under the \"Category III A\" of the Other Backwards Caste (OBC) List of Karnataka State Government. The Coorg National Council had appealed to the State Government to correct this and mention them as Kodavas and to include them in the \"Central Government Other Backward Castes (OBC) List\".\n\nAmong the other castes included in the Category III A of the State OBC List are the Gowda Vokkaliga. The Amma Kodava, the Kodagu Banna and the Kodagu Heggade have been included under the \"Category II A\" of the \"State OBC\" list, while the Kodagu Kapala have been included under \"Category I A\" of the State OBC List.\n\n \n\nThe Kodavas have contributed immensely towards the growth of the Indian nation, despite them being in small numbers. Their most significant contributions are in the armed forces and in sports. Originally being land-owning militiamen farmers from Kodagu, hence their traditional twin occupations were as agriculturists and as soldiers. The distinguished among them had been local chieftains, palace officials, officers of the Raja's army and brave battle veterans, therefore invariably having attained fame in either government service or in the local army. The Kodava ancestors grew paddy and plantation crops like bananas and pepper, their descendants are now into coffee cultivation.\n\nMany Kodavas joined the Indian armed forces both as officers and as servicemen. They distinguished themselves in times of war and peace, army-men are still shown the most respect in Kodagu (Coorg). Quite a number of Kodavas have been martyred on enemy frontiers. Many Kodavas participated in the two World Wars before Indian Independence and in the wars against China and Pakistan after 1947. There was a separate Coorg regiment (now forming a unit of the Indian Regiment of Artillery, this unit being called the 37 (Coorg) Anti-Tank Regiment RIA) which largely included people from non-Kodava backgrounds while the Kodavas themselves served in different other regiments; this is in keeping with the army's non-bias policy according to which people were recruited in regiments other than those belonging to their region and community of birth. Hence Field Marshal Cariappa of the Rajput Regiment and General Thimayya of the Kumaon Regiment were the most distinguished army-men among the Kodavas. Many other Kodavas have been made Lt. Generals, Major Generals, Brigadiers and Air Marshals. Lt. General A. C. Iyappa (or Apparanda Aiyappa) is best remembered for his contributions towards the Corps of Signals and towards Bharat Electronics Limited. There were several war heroes as well such as Nadikerianda Bheemaiah, a JCO who was awarded the Vir Chakra for conspicuous bravery in J&K Operations in 1947, Air Marshal Cheppudira D Subbaia who was a fighter pilot during WW II and was awarded the Vir Chakra and the PVSM, Squadron Leader Ajjamada B Devaiah, (known as the 'wings of fire') another fighter pilot was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra after he shot down an enemy aircraft and died in Pakistan during the 1965 Indo Pak War, Major Ganapathi Puttichanda Somiah, (known as the 'Major who kept his cool') awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, during the Indian Intervention in Sri Lanka, Major Ranjan Chengappa, Shaurya Chakra Awardee who was in Congo for UN mission as part of a peace keeping force, Col Chembanda M Thimanna, awarded the Shaurya Chakra for bravery in counter insurgency operations, Major Chottangada Ganesh Madappa, was awarded Shaurya Chakra posthumously in 1996, Squadron Leader Mandepanda Appachu Ganapathy, awarded the Vir Chakra in 1972 (when as a Flight Lieutenant he shot down Pakistani Sabre Jets). Major (now Retd Maj Gen) K P Nanjappa was awarded the Vir Chakra in 1971.\n\nKodavas have a long history of association with the game of field hockey. The district of Kodagu is considered as the \"cradle of Indian hockey\". More than 50 Kodavas have represented India in international hockey tournaments, M. P. Ganesh, M.M Somaiah, B. K. Subramani, A. B. Subbaiah, K. K. Poonacha, C. S. Poonacha, Jagadish Ponnappa, M.A.Bopanna, Len Ayyappa, Amar Aiyamma to name a few, out of whom 7 have also participated in the Olympics. The passion for hockey in Kodagu is so much that teams representing more than each of 200 families participate in an annual Kodava Hockey Festival. This festival is recognised as one of the largest field hockey tournaments in the world and has been referred to the Guinness Book of Records. However it has already found a mention in the Limca Book of Records, which is an Indian variant of the Guinness Book.\n\nKodavas have also been known in other individual sport events as well especially in athletics; Ashwini Nachappa, National Champion in Athletics, Olympian and Arjuna Awardee, Rohan Bopanna, National Tennis Champion, Joshna Chinappa, Ace squash player, Jagat and Anita Nanjappa, motor racing champions, C.C. Machaiah, (Chenanda Machiah) National boxing Champion, Olympian and Arjuna Awardee, Reeth Abraham (née Devaiah; of Kodava parentage), National Athletics Champion, Arjuna Awardee and Olympian, Arjun Devaiah, National Athlete and Arjuna Award winner, Pramila Aiyappa (née Ganapathy), National Champion in Athletics and Olympian, P G Chengappa, Former National Badminton Player, M R Poovamma (Maachettira Poovamma), National Champion in Athletics and Olympian and Ashwini Ponnappa, national badminton player. Of late Kodavas have begun to distinguish themselves in cricket. Robin Uthappa, K. P. Appanna, N. C. Aiyappa and Shyam Ponnappa have represented Karnataka state in national tournaments, like the Ranji trophy, and Bangalore city in the Indian Premier League.\n\nThe Kodavas language was a spoken language and had no written literature until 1900. Appanervanda Haridasa Appachcha Kavi, Nadikerianda Chinnappa and Dr. I M Muthanna, have contributed immensely towards developing a literature for this language. The Kodavas are almost all Hindus a few of them had taken up monkhood and contributed towards the development of the religion, especially in Kodagu and Mysore regions, the most famous among them being Swami Shambhavananda, Sadguru Appayya Swami and Swami Narayanananda. In the government service as well there were many prominent Kodavas. One remembers Rao Bahadur IGP P.K.Monnappa, for his contributions towards the Indian Police in South India, be it in Hyderabad, Madras, Mysore or Coorg. Diwan Bahadur Ketoli Chengappa, was the last Chief Commissioner (the governor of a British province which had no elected assembly) of Coorg. There were others like Rai Saheb Muthanna who served in Ceylon (Sri Lanka) and Mesopotamia (Iraq) during WWII and Rao Saheb Pattamada Devaiah, SP of Coorg. Some were judges in the High Court, such as Palecanda Medappa for Mysore and Ajjikuttira S Bopantna for Karnataka. C M Poonacha had been the Chief Minister of Coorg State (1952–'56), MP, Union Minister and later Governor of Orissa and Madhya Pradesh. C B Muthamma was the first woman Indian Foreign Service officer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20203913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20203913", "title": "Leela Charitra", "text": "Leela Charitra\n\nLeela Charitra is a biography of Bhagavan Shri Chakradhar Swami, the guru of the Mahanubhava sect, and is a sacred text of that sect. It was written in the late 13th century by his follower Mhaimbhat. It is the earliest known written work of Marathi literature. \"Leela Charitra\" Latest Edition will be published in the year 2016 by Raghav bhat satarkar\n"}
{"id": "23793577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23793577", "title": "Lindo lamp", "text": "Lindo lamp\n\nThe Lindo lamp is a silver Chanukah menorah. It is the oldest known example of a Chanukah menorah made in Britain.\n\nThe lamp was created by London silversmith John Ruslen in 1709. It was commissioned to celebrate the marriage of Elias Lindo and Rachel Lopes Ferreira. The couple were married at London's Bevis Marks Synagogue on February 2, 1708–09.\n\nThe lamp has been on loan to the London Jewish Museum, which has displayed it for 77 years, since the day the museum opened in 1932. The lamp is considered to be among the most important objects in the museum's collection. It is feared that if sufficient funds cannot be raised to purchase the lamp, it will be purchased by a private collector and disappear from public view. If the Museum, which is undergoing a major renovation, manages to raise sufficient funds to purchase the menorah, it will be on view in a new gallery entitled \"Judaism: A Living Faith\", designed to display the museum's \"magnificent\" collection of Jewish ceremonial art. The Museum's collection of ceremonial art has been awarded \"designated\" status by the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council in recognition of its outstanding national importance.\n\nIn 2009 the family that has long loaned the lamp to the Museum announced that it wished to sell the lamp, a price of £300,000 was set should the Museum wish to purchase the lamp. The National Heritage Memorial Fund (NHMF) agreed to contribute £145,000. The Art Fund offered to contribute £75,000 and the MLA /V&A Purchase Fund £30,000, if the Museum can raise the remaining £50,000 from private donors.\n\nThe sterling silver menorah is chased with a relief image of the Prophet Elijah fed by ravens, a scene from the Book of Kings (I Kings 17:6). It is common for Jewish ceremonial artistic objects to depict a biblical character bearing the same name as the patron who commissioned an object, in this case Elias (Elijah) Lindo. The subject is not very common in Jewish art, but it was popular in the Baroque period in both Catholic and Protestant lands. A well-known \"Elijah fed by Ravens\" painted in 1620 by Guercino hangs in the National Gallery. A version by Abraham Bloemaert is owned by the Cleveland Museum of Art.\n"}
{"id": "18292491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18292491", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Albania", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Albania\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Albania is composed of :\n\nAll Latin Church\n\n\n\nSeveral (arch)bishoprics had their title integrated into the merger :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280618", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in France", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in France\n\nThe French Catholic church mainly comprises a Metropolitan Latin hierarchy, joint in a national episcopal conference, consisting of\n\nFurthermore, it has four exempt Eastern Catholic jurisdictions : three rite-specific (of which two are transnational) and a national Ordinariate for the Faithful of Eastern Rite for all others without rite-proper Ordinary.\n\nThe French overseas departments and territories, although administratively and constitutionally part of the French republic, are not part of the French church under canon law but exempt and/or part of an episcopal conference in their respective continent.\n\nThere is also an Apostolic Nunciature (as papal diplomatic representation at embassy-level) to France in the national capital Paris. the country also hosts three multilateral Holy See Representations: to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), to the Council of Europe in Strasburg and to the International Commission on Civil Status (ICCS).\n\nThe following contains the list of the French Catholic Roman Catholic dioceses of France as since 2002.\" See also the List of Ancien Régime dioceses of France and the List of French dioceses in the 19th and 20th century for information prior to 2002.\nPope Saint John Paul II completely redrew the map of French ecclesiastical provinces in December 2002, in order to coincide more closely with the map of French administrative regions, but losing in several instances remaining boundaries surviving from late Roman times. This meant the creation of a few new Metropolitan archbishoprics and ecclesiastical provinces. This also entailed, for several archbishoprics, the loss of their metropolitan status (symbolised by the wearing of the pallium): their bishops nevertheless retained the title of archbishop.\nAs a result of history, many former episcopal sees were united, mainly as a consequence of the French Revolution; hence many dioceses bear the names of several cities, in which case, only the first one is the cathedral see where the bishop still actually resides.\n\nIn France, most dioceses coincide with a department (administrative province), but there are a few exceptions, where some arrondissements are attached to a diocese outside the department, or form a separate diocese within the department (this happens mainly in departments with numerous populations, such as Nord or Bouches-du-Rhône). Along with the list of the new ecclesiastical provinces and their suffragan dioceses, this list also gives the equivalent of the diocesan jurisdiction in departmental terms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nExcluding those united to current sees\nTO BE CHECKED\n\nall Latin\n\"(in many cases, in a conference/province(s) with non-French, mainly Anglophone, dioceses)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52834011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52834011", "title": "List of mosques in Yemen", "text": "List of mosques in Yemen\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Yemen.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "247840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247840", "title": "Ma (myth)", "text": "Ma (myth)\n\nMa is a Sumerian word meaning \"land\" that in Sumerian mythology was also used to regard Primordial Land. \n\nThere seems to be some loss in records as to the transition, but the same name Ma appears again later, also tied to the Earth, in Ma being referred to as \"Mother of the mountain\" - in this case, Kur (Mountain) the first dragon god. \n\nThe underworld Kur is the void space between the primeval sea (Abzu) and the earth (Ma). Which seem a likely pairing for parentage, in a fuzzy set of records. \nMa was a local goddess at Ma and a Phrygian alternative name for Cybele.\n\n"}
{"id": "25647386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25647386", "title": "Megasthenes' Herakles", "text": "Megasthenes' Herakles\n\nMegasthenes' Herakles is the conventional name of reference of an ancient Indian deity. Herakles was originally a classical Greek divinity. However, in the aftermath of Alexander the Great's conflicts in North-Western India, an Indian version of this classical Greek deity was identified by Megasthenes, who travelled to India as the ambassador of the Seleucids during the reign of Chandragupta Maurya. Upon visiting Mathurai of the Early Pandyan Kingdom, he described the kingdom as being named after Pandaea, Herakles' only daughter.\n\nMany scholars have suggested that the deity identified as Herakles was Krishna. Edwin Francis Bryant adds the following in this regard:\n\nJames Tod associated Herakles primarily with Baladeva, Krishna's older sibling, but also indicated that Herakles could be associated with both:\n\nAccording to Quintus Curtius, the Sibae, whom he calls Sobii, occupied the country between the Hydaspes and the Akesines. They may have derived their name from the god Siva.\n\nAccording to Dr. Schwanbeck and J. W. McCrindle, Megasthenes meant Siva when he mentioned Herakles in his book \"Indika\"\n\ngod Krishna\n\n"}
{"id": "1997666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997666", "title": "Neti neti", "text": "Neti neti\n\nIn Hinduism, and in particular Jnana Yoga and Advaita Vedanta, neti neti (नेति नेति) is a Sanskrit expression which means \"not this, not this\", or \"neither this, nor that\" (' is sandhi from ' \"not so\"). It is found in the Upanishads and the Avadhuta Gita and constitutes an analytical meditation helping a person to understand the nature of Brahman by first understanding what is not Brahman. It corresponds to the western \"via negativa\", a mystical approach that forms a part of the tradition of apophatic theology. One of the key elements of Jnana Yoga practice is often a \"neti neti search.\" The purpose of the exercise is to negate rationalizations and other distractions from the non-conceptual meditative awareness of reality.\n\nNeti neti, meaning, \"Not this, not this\", is the method of Vedic analysis of negation. It is a keynote of Vedic inquiry. With its aid the Jnani negates identification with all things of this world which is not the Atman, in this way he negates the Anatman. Through this gradual process he negates the mind and transcends all worldly experiences that are negated till nothing remains but the Self. He attains union with the Absolute by denying the body, name, form, intellect, senses and all limiting adjuncts and discovers what remains, the true \"I\" alone. L.C.Beckett in his book, \"Neti Neti,\" explains that this expression is an expression of something inexpressible, it expresses the ‘suchness’ (the essence) of that which it refers to when ‘no other definition applies to it’. Neti neti negates all descriptions about the Ultimate Reality but not the Reality itself. Intuitive interpretation of uncertainty principle can be expressed by \"Neti neti\" that annihilates ego and the world as non-self (Anatman), it annihilates our sense of self altogether.\n\nAdi Shankara was one of the foremost Advaita philosophers who advocated the neti-neti approach. In his commentary on Gaudapada’s Karika, he explains that Brahman is free from adjuncts and the function of \"neti neti\" is to remove the obstructions produced by ignorance. His disciple, Sureshvara, further explains that the negation, \"neti neti\", does not have negation as its purpose, it purports identity. The sage of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad II iii 1-6, beginning with there are two forms of Brahman, the material and the immaterial, the solid and the fluid, the Sat ‘being’ and tya, ‘that’ of Satya – which means true, denies the existence of everything other than Brahman. And therefore, there exists no separate entity like Jiva which Shankara states is the reflection of Brahman in Avidya (ignorance).\n\nThe following was extracted from Avadhuta Gita on Wikisource:\n<poem>\nSanskrit in Devanagari:\nतत्त्वमस्यादिवाक्येन स्वात्मा हि प्रतिपादितः ।\nनेति नेति श्रुतिर्ब्रूयाद अनृतं पाञ्चभौतिकम् ।। २५।।\n\nIAST:\ntattvamasyādivākyena svātmā hi pratipāditaḥ /\nneti neti śrutirbrūyād anṛtaṁ pāñcabhautikam //25//\n\nBy such sentences as \"That thou art,\" our own Self is affirmed. Of that which is untrue and composed of the five elements - the Sruti (scripture) says, \"Not this, not this.\"\n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "666879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666879", "title": "Nirmala Srivastava", "text": "Nirmala Srivastava\n\nNirmala Srivastava (née Nirmala Salve) (21 March 1923 – 23 February 2011), also known as Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi, is the founder of Sahaja Yoga, a meditation technique. She said \"You cannot know the meaning of your life until you're connected to the power that created you\". She claimed to have been born in a fully realised and spent her life working for peace by developing and promoting a simple technique through which people can achieve their own self-realization.\n\nShri Mataji was born in Chindawara, Madhya Pradesh, India to a Hindu father and a Christian mother Prasad and Cornelia Salve. Her parents named her Nirmala, which means \"immaculate\". She said that she was born self-realised. Her father, a scholar of fourteen languages, translated the Koran into Marathi, and her mother was the first woman in India to receive an honours degree in mathematics. Shri Mataji descended from the royal Shalivahana/Satavahana dynasty. The former union minister N.K.P. Salve was her brother and the lawyer Harish Salve is her nephew.The Salve surname is one of a number included in the Satavahana Maratha clan.\n\nShri Mataji passed her childhood years in the family house in Nagpur. In her youth she stayed in the ashram of Mahatma Gandhi. Like her parents, she was involved with the struggle for Indian independence and, as a youth leader when a young woman, was jailed for participating in the Quit India Movement in 1942. Taking responsibility for her younger siblings and living a spartan lifestyle during this period infused the feeling of self-sacrifice for the wider good. She studied at the Christian Medical College in Ludhiana and the Balakram Medical College in Lahore.\n\nShortly before India achieved independence in 1947, Shri Mataji married Chandrika Prasad Srivastava, a high-ranking Indian civil servant who later served Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri as Joint Secretary, and was bestowed an honorary KCMG by Elizabeth II. They had two daughters, Kalpana Srivastava and Sadhana Varma. In 1961, Nirmala Srivastava launched the \"Youth Society for Films\" to infuse national, social and moral values in young people. She was also a member of the Central Board of Film Certification.\n\nNirmala Srivastava was known to have been concerned with the damage being done to society by 'false gurus' and because of this visited a meditation camp in Nargol that was presided over by Rajneesh (later known as Osho). She said that she \"was shocked to see him loot people under the guise of spirituality\" and said that he was mesmerising people. The camp ran from 2 May to 5 May 1970, and Rajneesh led sessions in an early form of dynamic meditation, discoursed on \"kundalini\" and other matters, and answered a question about sahaja yoga.\n\nNirmala Srivastava said that while in Nargol, on 5 May 1970, she witnessed the rising of the Primordial Kundalini. Later she described the experience as follows: \"I saw my kundalini rising very fast like a telescope opening out and it was a beautiful color that you see when the iron is heated up, a red rose color, but extremely cooling and soothing.\" She stated that the potential for all humanity to gain spiritual self-awareness was realised at this time, which she characterises as a \"historical process of en-masse self-realization and inner transformation\". Soon after she founded Sahaja Yoga in Mumbai.\n\nIn \"The Power of Intention\", Wayne Dyer summarises Shri Mataji's message as follows:\n\nIn 1972 Mrs. Nirmala Srivastava sailed to the US and warned against false gurus. In 1974 Chandrika Prasad Srivastava was elected to serve as the Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organization (IMO), a United Nations agency based in London, serving a record 4 successive 4-year terms as Secretary-General from 1974 to 1989. After moving to London with her husband, Nirmala Srivastava worked with seven London hippies who became the first Western Sahaja Yogis. In 1979 Nirmala Srivastava declared herself to be the complete incarnation of the Adi (Primordial) Shakti or Holy Spirit to her devotees. She has also claimed to be Maitreya and the Mahdi. Nirmala Srivastava has been described as \"a simple Indian housewife... with a motherly and compassionate personality\".\n\nIn 1980 Nirmala Srivastava first toured Europe spreading Sahaja Yoga and in 1981 she toured Malaysia, Australia and North America – many other countries were to follow. In 1989, after the lifting of the Iron Curtain, Nirmala Srivastava began visiting Eastern Europe where Sahaja Yoga spread quickly. Also in 1995, Nirmala Srivastava gave a speech at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. In 1997 Claes Nobel, the founder of \"United Earth\", spoke in strong support of Shri Mataji and Sahaja Yoga which he described as a reference point for determining right from wrong. He said he was very comfortable with Shri Mataji and her teachings quoting \"you shall know the tree by its fruit\" and described Sahaja Yogis as ambassadors for the earth.\n\nShri Mataji established the International Sahaja Yoga Health and Research Centre in Mumbai in 1996. Its website says that practitioners from all over the world visit to use Sahaja Yoga methods to achieve better meditations; also that the technique is studied for its curing effects of various illnesses. In 2003 a charity house for the rehabilitation of destitute women was set up in Delhi (the \"Vishwa Nirmala Prem Ashram\"). The \"Shri P.K. Salve Kala Pratishthan\" in Nagpur was set up as an international music school in the same year by Nirmala, to promote classical music and fine art.\n\nUntil 2004, during her travels, Shri Mataji gave numerous public lectures, pujas, and interviews to newspapers, television and radio. In 2004 the official website of Sahaja Yoga announced that Shri Mataji had completed her work and Sahaja Yoga centers exist in almost every country of the world. She continued to give talks to her devotees and allowed them to offer her puja.\n\nShri Mataji spoke on a number of occasions about the evils of alcohol. In Australia in October 2007 she spoke at length about the problems associated with alcohol, both in relation to society, its effects upon people and the dangers it poses to the family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38280511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38280511", "title": "Orani Church", "text": "Orani Church\n\nThe Roman Catholic church of Orani, declared as an independent parish on April 21, 1714, and also known as Our Lady of the Most Holy Rosary Parish Church (\"Our Lady of the Rosary of Orani Church\", \"Nuestra Señora del Rosario Parish Church\", \"Simbahan ng Orani\" or \"Virgen Milagrosa Del Rosario del Pueblo de Orani Shrine\") is a Neoclassical (heritage) Diocesan Marian Shrine and Pilgrimage church located in the center of Orani, Bataan in the Philippines.\n\nThe \"Nuestra Señora del Santo Rosario de Orani\" Church was also declared as a \"Dambana ng Paglalakbay\" (Pilgrim Shrine) on August 22, 2004 by then Bishop of Balanga ang now Archbishop of Lingayen Socrates B. Villegas. On September 25, 2012, the church of Orani also became an Affiliate Church of the Basilica of St. Mary Major in Rome, with all the rights and privileges conveyed by the Roman Pontiff on the latter. This means that the faithful, after fulfilling certain conditions, can avail of plenary indulgences when they pray at the Church of Orani, as if they had visited the Basilica in Rome.\n\nThe Church of Orani is under the jurisdiction of the Vicariate of St. Dominic de Guzman & Vicariate of Our Lady of the Most Holy Rosary. The Virgin's feast day is on the second Sunday of October. It is under the jurisdiction of Roman Catholic Diocese of Balanga that comprises the entire civil province of Bataan. Its Titular is St. Joseph, Husband of Mary, with feast day on April 28. The Diocese is headed by the Most Reverend Bishop Ruperto Cruz Santos, D.D.\n\nThe present Parish Priest of Orani is Rev. Fr. Abraham Pantig. Orani's Catholic population is about 33,957.\n\nThe Church is named after its Patroness, \"Our Lady of Orani\". She is also known as the Virgen Milagrosa, a name given to her by her numerous devotees who have witnessed the countless miracles she has worked through the centuries.\n\nThe title \"Our Lady of the Rosary,\" or \"Our Lady of the Most Holy Rosary,\" is a title of the Blessed Virgin Mary that has traditionally been promoted by the Order of Preachers (more popularly known as the Dominican Order) ever since it was founded by St. Dominic de Guzman in the 13th century. In 1571 Pope Pius V, a Dominican friar himself, instituted the feast of \"Our Lady of Victory\" as an annual feast to commemorate the victory of the Catholic naval forces in the famed Battle of Lepanto. The victory was attributed to the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary, as a rosary procession had been offered on that day in St. Peter's Square in Rome for the success of the mission of the Holy League to hold back Muslim forces from overrunning Western Europe. In 1573, Pope Gregory XIII changed the title of this feast to the \"Feast of the Holy Rosary\". This feast was extended by Pope Clement XI to the whole of the Latin Rite, inserting it into the General Roman Calendar in 1716, and assigning it to the first Sunday in October. Pope Pius X changed the date to 7 October in 1913, as part of his effort to restore celebration of the liturgy of the Sundays.\n\nFather Wilfredo C. Paguio, however, believes that the town got its name from the word “maruani” (a group of settlers introduced by the Samal people who wandered into the town and settled there in early days, about 300 years ago – the period which might be considered as the beginning of the history of the town although there were already human settlements in Orani as far back as the late 1500s'.\n\nWe may also trace the name of Orani to the town of Orani in the island of Sardignia in present-day Italy, then part of the Kingdom of Spain at the time when the Spanish missionaries, including the Dominicans, were first sent to the Philippines. Many towns and places in the Philippines carry the name of towns belonging to the Spanish Crown. This is due to the name's significance to the founders of the new town, or in recognition of the patronage and financial contribution of some members of the nobility to the missionary work of the frailes in the new area, or simply as an expression of nostalgia by the colonial masters. Such is the case of Nueva Ecija, Nueva Segovia, Nueva Vizcaya, Toledo, Albuquerque, Alcala, and Tolosa, to cite a few examples. Several Dominicans also trace their roots to Orani in Sardignia, while the Marquisate of Orani, the noble lineage that encompasses the territory to this day, was known to have contributed extensively to the missions in the New World.\n\nOn April 21, 1714, the \"visita\" (chapelry) of Orani formally became an independent parish, separating itself from the Parish of Samal. Padre Diego Ortiz was appointed as Orani's first cura párroco. The original structure, made out of nipa leaves and bamboo and constructed on the founding site in the 1600s, was modeled after the primitive types: open on all sides, thatched roofed held by columnar posts of molave wood and equipped with bamboo benches. The chapel was later made bigger and reconstructed with adobe and stone as well as sturdier roofing material. Padre Agustín Manjares y Esquivel renovated the chapel in 1723.\n\nOn June 23, 1768, the administration of the Dominican missions in Bataan was transferred to the Secular Clergy. This was due to the refusal of the Dominicans in Bataan to submit their parishes to the inspection and visit of the Archdiocese, then headed by Archibishop Basilio Sancho de Santa Justa y Rufina. In Orani, it was Padre Bernardo de Aragón, O.P. who turned over the Parish to the secular priest Fr. Faustino Bautista, who had to sign an inventory of items belonging to the church and the Virgin. In 1806, a small \"carillon\" (musical instrument housed in the church belfry) was installed. In 1833, the Dominicans returned with the death of Padre Juan de los Reyes with Padre Rafael Castro succeeding as Cura Parroco.\n\nThe Dominican friars built and repaired the Orani church and convent in 1792 and 1836, but these were badly damaged by the September 16, 1852 earthquake. The two structures were also gutted down by another big fire on March 27, 1870.\n\nFrom 1868 to 1891, Rev. Bartolomé Alvarez del Manzano, O.P. built and improved the Church buildings, which were finished by Padre Fermín Pérez de San Julián. It was also during the terms of these two parish priests that the \"visitas\" of Balut and Tapulao were built. They were also responsible for the beautification of Orani's Catholic cemetery as well as the construction of a primary school for boys and another, for girls, which were burned down by the Kaptipuneros who also used stones from the cemetery to build a blockade.\n\nDuring the revolution against Spain, Fr. Fermín Pérez de San Julián, was spared from the ire of the Katipuneros by the townspeople, particularly by the people of Tapulao, who kept their spiritual leader from harm. Other parish priests in Bataan were abducted, one was even hanged on a tree by the rebels. Pérez de San Julián together with other priests from Central Luzon, were eventually arrested by the rebels upon the orders of Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo. They were brought to prison camps where they were help captive until June 1899. After the Filipino-American war, Pérez de San Julián went back to Bataan and served as parish priest of Pilar until 1931.\n\nEarly in the American colonial period, the priests at Orani organized catechetical instructions for first communicants, youth and adults in order to reinforce the faith of adherents to counter the rise of Protestantism. Assistance in this effort came from the Jesuit seminarians at San Carlos and San Javier Seminaries who would spend their summer break in the town upon the invitation of the parish priest, Father Pedro Salaverria. He was the administrator of the Hacienda de Dinalupihan of the Archdiocese of Manila. Debates between the Catholics and Protestants were organized in the town plaza.\n\nOn March 16, 1938 a fire razed three fourths of Orani, Bataan, including the Church, then under the stewardship of Padre Gregorio Florencio, the Presidencia and the Tercena (former Bataan High School and later Orani Elementary School building). The partially damaged image of the Virgen Milagrosa was saved and brought to the Salaverría bahay na bato located beside the church.\n\nIn September, 1938, the Church of Orani was rehabilitated.\n\nIn 1939, the Philippines Historical Committee installed a historical marker at the façade of the Church of Orani, classifying it as a House of Worship with Level II status.\n\nOn January 6, 1942, Japanese forces bombed Bataan and the church of Orani sustained minimal damages. The religious services were suspended until the Liberation of the Philippines because the Japanese used the church as a garrison. According to a report of the mayor during the Japanese Occupation, Raymundo Galicia, the image of the Virgin was left untouched by the Japanese and remained on its altar during the entire Japanese Occupation.\n\nOn August 15, 1945, the Church was rehabilitated by Fr. Elias Calimbas. Later, Fr. Simplicio Fernandez and Msgr. Emilano Santos finished its construction in 1982.\n\nOn April 18, 1959, Nuestra Señora del Rosario was canonically crowned in a solemn ceremony headed by the Archibishop of San Fernando and the Apostolic Nuncio to the Philippines.\n\nThe Church was renovated from 1987 to October 6, 1991 under Fr. Antonio Dumaual and Fr. Camilo Pacanza. The new altar was blessed by Bishop Celso N. Guevarra on October 6, 1991.\n\nIn 2002, the church and convent were repaired and improved.\n\nThe “Museo ng Mahal na Birheng Maria,” a repository of the Marian relics and artifacts was added to the convent. It is here where the numerous vestments and crowns of the Lady of the Most Holy Rosary are kept.\n\nOn August 22, 2004, Archbishop Socrates B. Villegas designated the Orani Church as a Pilgrimage Shrine (Shrines to the Virgin Mary) (\"Dambana ng Paglalakbay\").\n\nOn April 18, 2009, the 50th Golden Anniversary of the Virgin's Canonical Coronation was celebrated with the presence of Gaudencio Cardinal Rosales [Source: Parish Priest and Parish Office of Orani, Bataan, retrieved on January 16, 2013].\n\nOn September 25, 2012, the Church of Orani was granted a perpetual spiritual affinity bond by Pope Benedict XVI with the Basilica of St. Mary Major in Rome. This status, as an affiliate church, grants those who pray in Orani the same spiritual privileges as those conveyed to the faithful who visit the Basilica in Rome.\n\nThe Orani church is an example of a mixture of old and new architecture. Although the church was drastically restructured and changed in the late 1980s and early 1990s, it still maintains the same lines and design of the old façade albeit with a different finish. The ceiling was heightened, the tile flooring changed to marble and the upper side windows demolished to give way to modern stained glass artwork despite the church's original Baroque and Neoclassic theme. The Church has four portals: the Gate of Heaven, the Gate of Saints, the Gate of Angels and the Gate of Paradise. The former Neoclassic altar, which was demolished in the late 1980s, has become the inspiration for the current altar which was built and blessed in 2012 under the administration of Fr. Santos Detablan. Side altars to complement the main altar are being built as of this writing, while brick tile flooring has been recently installed in the church patio.\n\nThe historic bell of the church of the Parish of the beloved Nuestra Señora del Rosario was presented to the public and installed in front of the church on June 7, 1998. It is a symbol of the undying, truthful and timeless faith of the people of Orani to the Lord.\n\nDisplayed in front of the church, the bell is another historical and religious artifact that symbolizes the birth and lasting legacy of Christianity in the province.\n\nThe heritage bells were dedicated and first used during the tenure of Parish Priests Fathers Juan José de Acuña and Esteban de Sta. María in 1806.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2949528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2949528", "title": "Pudgala", "text": "Pudgala\n\nIn Jainism, Pudgala (or \"\") is one of the six Dravyas, or aspects of reality that fabricate the world we live in. The six \"dravya\"s include the jiva and the fivefold divisions of ajiva (non-living) category: \"dharma\" (motion), \"adharma\" (rest), \"akasha\" (space), \"pudgala\" (matter) and \"kala\" (time). \"Pudgala\", like other \"dravya\"s except \"kala\" is called \"astikaya\" in the sense that it occupies space. \n\nPudgala is derived from the words 'pud', which is defined as Supplement (Addition /Fusion), and gala, which is defined as Disintegrate, or Division or Fission. Therefore, Pudgalas are best defined as all things that are continuously changing by the process of Supplementation or Disintegration, namely matter.\n\nThe individual unit of Pudgala is the material from which all is made called a Paramanu, which, by the process of supplementation, can combine to form what can be roughly said is an aggregate, called a Skandha. It possesses at all times four qualities, namely, a color (\"varna\"), a taste (\"rasa\"), a smell (\"gandha\"), and a certain kind of palpability (\"sparsha\", touch).\n\nIn Buddhism, \"Pudgala\" means the entity that reincarnates as an individual or person, i.e., the \"bundle of tendencies\" that keeps an individual reincarnating until they attain enlightenment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7763349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7763349", "title": "Religion in Malta", "text": "Religion in Malta\n\nThe predominant religion in Malta is that of the Catholic Church. The Constitution of Malta establishes Catholicism as the state religion and it is also reflected in various elements of Maltese culture.\n\nMalta's patron saints are St Paul, St Publius and St Agatha. The Assumption of Mary known as Santa Marija is the Special patron of the Maltese Islands.\n\nArticle 2 of the Constitution of Malta states that the religion of Malta is the \"Roman Catholic apostolic religion\" (paragraph 1), that the authorities of the Catholic Church have the duty and the right to teach which principles are right and wrong (paragraph 2) and that religious teaching of the Catholic apostolic faith shall be provided in all state schools as part of compulsory education (paragraph 3).\n\nMalta, a signatory to the Protocol 1 to the European Convention on Human Rights, made a declaration saying that it accepts the protocol's article 2 (on parents' right to have their children educated in line with their religious or philosophical views) only insofar \"as it is compatible with the provision of efficient instruction and training, and the avoidance of unreasonable public expenditure, having regard to the fact that the population of Malta is overwhelmingly Roman Catholic\".\n\nHowever, article 2(1) and (3) of the Constitution are not entrenched, unlike article 40 which guarantees full freedom of conscience and of religious worship and bars the requirement of religious instruction or to show proficiency in religion. This means that if the provisions of article 2(1) and (2) are in conflict with the rights guaranteed under article 40, the provisions of the latter prevail. With regards to religious instruction in public schools for example, students may opt to decline participation in Catholic religious lessons.\n\nMalta officially supported Italy and was one of ten states presenting written observations when the case \"Lautsi v. Italy\" was to be heard by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights over the exhibiting of the crucifix in classrooms.\n\nMalta was the last European country (excluding the Vatican City) to introduce divorce in October 2011 after voting in a referendum on the subject earlier in the year. Furthermore, Malta has also repealed vilification of religion as a crime in July 2016.\n\nAbortion is illegal in all circumstances. Over the years some loopholes (non-inclusion of outer territorial waters, no mention of advertising) permitted individuals to circumvent the ban for limited time periods.\n\nAccording to a Eurobarometer Poll held in 2005, 95% of Maltese responded that they \"believe there is a God\", 3% responded that they \"believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 1% responded that they \"don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\" which was the lowest percentage of non-believers in all countries surveyed together with Turkey, Romania and Poland. 1% gave no response.\n\nIn a report published in 2006, it was reported that 52.6% of Maltese (older than 7 years and excluding those not able to attend) attended Sunday mass in 2005, down from 75.1% in 1982 and 63.4% in 1995. Hence, Sunday mass attendance has dropped annually by 1% since 1982. According to Archbishop Charles Scicluna, Sunday mass attendance dropped further to roughly 40% by 2015. The 2017 census revealed that 38% of the population attends mass every Sunday. \n\n\nPope John Paul II made three pastoral visits to Malta: twice in 1990 and once in 2001. In his last visit he beatified three Maltese people: George Preca (who was then canonised in 2007), Nazju Falzon and Adeodata Pisani.\n\nIn April 2010, Pope Benedict XVI also visited Malta in the celebration of the anniversary of 1950 years of the shipwreck of Paul in Malta.\n\nMost congregants at the local Protestant churches are not Maltese; many British retirees live in the country, and vacationers from many other nations compose the remainder of such congregations. In 2008, the seven congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses reported 569 active adherents, with an annual Memorial attendance of 1120. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), the Bible Baptist Church. The Evangelical Alliance of Malta (TEAMalta) has seven churches and two organizations that are affiliated, with about 400 members between them. There is one Greek Catholic church, which also hosts Russian Orthodox services a few times a year (when a patriarch comes over from Moscow to celebrate mass for Eastern Orthodox holidays, like Easter). \n\nMalta does not recognise Judaism, Hinduism, Sikhism and a few other global religions that are described as cults. There is one Jewish congregation. There are nearly 45 Hindu families in Malta that practise their own Hindu faith however there are no Hindu temples and the Hindu deceased are buried in Malta instead of being cremated.\n\nThere is one Muslim mosque and a Muslim faith school. Of the estimated 3,000 Muslims in Malta, approximately 2,250 are foreigners, approximately 600 are naturalized citizens, and approximately 150 are native-born Maltese.\n\nZen Buddhism and the Bahá'í Faith also have about 40 members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16833352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16833352", "title": "Religion in Samoa", "text": "Religion in Samoa\n\nReligion in Samoa encompasses a range of groups, but 98% of the population of Samoa is Christian. The following is a distribution of Christian groups as of 2011 (the most recent census available): Congregational Christian (32 percent), Roman Catholic (19 percent), LDS (15 percent), Methodist (14 percent), Assemblies of God (8 percent) and Seventh-day Adventist (4 percent). Groups together constituting less than 5 percent of the population include Baha'i, Jehovah's Witnesses, Congregational Church of Jesus, Nazarene, nondenominational Protestant, Baptist, Worship Centre, Peace Chapel, Samoa Evangelism, Elim Church, and Anglican. (A comparison of the 2006 and 2011 censuses shows a slight decline in the membership of major denominations and an increase in participation in nontraditional and evangelical groups. Although there is no official estimate, there are reportedly small numbers of Hindus, Buddhists, and Jews, primarily in Apia. The country has one of the world's eight Bahá'í Houses of Worship. There is a small Muslim community and one mosque.\n\nThe constitution and other laws and policies protect religious freedom. The constitution provides for the right to choose, practice, and change the religion of one’s choice. Legal protections cover discrimination or persecution by private as well as government actors.\n\nThe constitution provides freedom from unwanted religious education in schools and gives each religious group the right to establish its own schools. Nevertheless, a 2009 education policy, enforced since 2010, makes Christian instruction compulsory in public primary schools and optional in public secondary schools. The government institutes the policy inconsistently in government schools across the country, with little if any public concern or opposition. Church-run pastoral schools in most villages traditionally provide religious instruction after school hours.\n\nThe government observes the following religious holidays as national holidays: Good Friday, Easter Monday, White Monday (Children's Day), and Christmas.\n\nThe government does not require religious groups to register.\n\nA government-established commission charged with recommending possible constitutional amendments concerning religious freedom completed its collection of public submissions at the end of 2010. By the end of 2012, the government had not publicly released the report or tabled it in parliament.\n\nIn June 2017, the Samoan Parliament passed a bill to increase support for Christianity in the country's constitution, including a reference to the Trinity. According to \"The Diplomat\", \"What Samoa has done is shift references to Christianity into the body of the constitution, giving the text far more potential to be used in legal processes.\" The preamble to the constitution already described the country as \"an independent State based on Christian principles and Samoan custom and traditions.\"\n\nAs of 2012, there were occasional reports of societal discrimination based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice. In addition prominent societal leaders repeatedly publicly emphasized that the country was Christian. Public discussion of religious issues often included negative references to non-Christian religions.\n\nTraditionally, villages tended to have one primary Christian church. Village chiefs often chose the religious denomination of their extended families. Many larger villages had multiple churches serving different denominations and coexisting peacefully. However, new religious groups sometimes faced resistance when attempting to establish themselves in some villages.\n\nThere remained minor tensions between Fa'a Samoa (the Samoan way) and individual religious rights. One of the elements of Fa'a Samoa was the traditional, tightly-knit village community. Often, village elders and the community at large were not receptive toward those who attempted to introduce another denomination or religion into the community. While under-reported, observers stated that, in many villages throughout the country, leaders forbade individuals to belong to churches outside of the village or to exercise their right not to worship. Villagers in violation of such rules faced fines or banishment from the village.\n\nThere was a high level of religious observance and strong societal pressure at village and local levels to participate in church services and other activities, and to support church leaders and projects financially. In some denominations, financial contributions often totaled more than 30 percent of family income. This issue has gained media attention as some members of parliament have spoken out about pressure on families to give disproportionate amounts of their incomes to churches.\n\n"}
{"id": "41936350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41936350", "title": "Rohr Jewish Learning Institute", "text": "Rohr Jewish Learning Institute\n\nThe Rohr Jewish Learning Institute (JLI) is a provider of adult Jewish courses on Jewish history, law, ethics, philosophy and rabbinical literature worldwide. It also develops Jewish studies curricula for women, college students, teenagers, and seniors. Its principal benefactor is George Rohr and its chairman is Rabbi Moshe Kotlarsky. In 2014, there were 117,500 people enrolled in JLI, making it the largest Jewish education network in the world. It was created with a mission to make the teachings, values and traditions of the Jewish people accessible and personally meaningful to all Jews, regardless of their background or affiliation. The JLI model combines a research-based approach with instructional design, aiming to present traditional Jewish teachings in a contemporary academic framework. Its headquarters are located in the Crown Heights area at Brooklyn, New York City.\n\nJLI's mission is to make the teachings, values and traditions of the Jewish people accessible and personally meaningful to every Jew, regardless of background or affiliation.\nJLI inspires Jewish learning worldwide and impacts Jewish life and the community through Torah study, creating a global network of informed students connected by bonds of shared Jewish experience.\nJLI courses address students' multiple intelligences and diverse learning modalities, fostering personal and interpersonal growth by imparting Jewish values. Drawing on research-based instructional design, JLI's courses on Judaism are designed to be relevant to the modern adult. Their instructors offer lectures by textbooks, slide show presentations and video clips.\n\nA network of JLI's affiliated local chapters offers courses to the Jewish communities. JLI's flagship courses consist of six weekly sessions and each class unit is taught concurrently at all of its locations.\n\nSpecific JLI courses are accredited to offer Continuing Legal Education credits by the bar associations of 31 U.S. states, in various Canadian provinces, Australia, the UK as well as The Order of Flemish Bar Associations, and South Africa's National Board of Licenses. When appropriate, JLI courses are accredited by the AMA's ACCME Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education for Continuing Medical Education credits, as well as by The Washington School of Psychiatry and The American Psychological Association.\n\nA subsidiary of Merkos L'Inyonei Chinuch, JLI is the adult education arm of Chabad Lubavitch.\n\nThe courses are taught in Jewish communities around the world.\n\nJLI was commissioned by the family of former Israeli Prime Minister, Yitzhak Shamir, to develop a series of lunch-hour educational classes for corporate offices in Israel.\n\nIn addition to the flagship course offerings, JLI has branched out to offer the following programs geared towards specific segments of the community:\n\nThe Torah Studies department develops weekly classes taught year-round on Torah portions corresponding to those read in synagogues each Sabbath. Geared towards students seeking on-going Torah study, lessons focus on relevant life issues such as personal growth, business ethics, social responsibilities, personal relationships and the environment.\n\nJLI Teens courses make Judaism relevant to teens and aim to forge a new generation of Jewish leadership. Teens are engaged with a series of comprehensive courses on issues they contemplate and provide a safe place for discussion on topics such as suicide, personal ethics and values, anti-Semitism, purpose in life, relationships, faith and reason, social justice, leadership, and Israel. A few select teens in each chapter who demonstrate leadership qualities are invited to join the JLI Teens International Internship Program. The interns' role includes participating in joint conference calls to share ideas, providing early feedback and suggestions to course developers, and partaking in special contests and activities.\nJLI Teens is offered in seventy cities throughout the United States, Canada, South America, Russia, South Africa, China, Europe and the Middle East.\n\nTeen Courses\n\nThe Sinai Scholars Society is an integrated fellowship program for college campus students comprising Torah study, social activities, and national networking opportunities. The eight-part curriculum addresses essentials in Judaism, introducing students to the contemporary significance of Jewish life. Students submit an academic paper on Jewish thought, and participate in community and holiday events.\nSinai Scholars is offered in partnership with Chabad on Campus at over one hundred universities.\nThe Sinai Scholars Society sponsors an annual Students and Scholars Academic Symposium. A selected group of university students from across the country present papers on the modern day relevance of core Jewish ideas and beliefs, the author of the winning paper is awarded a cash prize. At the Symposium students mingle with Jewish scholars in the academic community and connect with peers from other campuses.\n\nJLI's women's studies division, The Rosh Chodesh Society (RCS), seeks to empower Jewish women to connect with their Jewish heritage, and in turn, inspire their families and greater communities. An international network of female Jewish scholars, leaders, and educators provides members with adult education via monthly cultural and social programs.\nThe program was founded in 2009 in memory of Rivka Holtzberg, the Chabad emissary who, along with her husband, Gavriel Holtzberg, was a victim of the terror attack in Mumbai, India. Its debut course, Rivka's Tent, was a seven-part series of text-based study of the three commandments addressed specifically to Jewish women. RCS has affiliates in over 150 communities around the world.\n\nJLI later created a video site, Torah Café (www.TorahCafe.com) where it offers lectures, workshops, and inspiration from its library. The videos covers a broad range of topics available including academic study of Torah, language, Jewish literature, Jewish History, Biographies of Jewish personalities, Jewish music and ethics.\n\nJLI sponsors a six-day annual retreat, The National Jewish Retreat which features live lectures and interactive workshops on Jewish life, law, history, culture and tradition, led by scholars and experts in their various fields of study. The annual retreat is hosted each summer at a hotel and was designed to engage the mind and refresh the spirit, and provides gourmet Kosher cuisine and entertainment.\n\nPrevious scholars-in-residence include:\n\n\n\nIn 2013, the Retreat launched the annual Jewish Medical Ethics Conference, which features interactive discussions between participating physicians and Jewish medical ethicists on current and emerging quandaries in the field. The conference is accredited for CME. Visit the National Jewish Retreat here .\n\nResponding to nationwide demand from students participating in the fall 2007 course on Israel, The Land and the Spirit, JLI launched its first Israel Experience in March 2008. The bi-annual tour presents an insider look at Israel. In addition to visiting historic and religious sites, participants meet with Israeli politicians and decision-makers, Torah scholars and local residents.\nParticipants bring messages of support from home communities in the Diaspora to the IDF forces and to families of terror victims.\nTo date, a total of 2,500 Jews from the Diaspora have joined JLI's Israel Experience.\nThe Israel Experience has been addressed by Chief Rabbis Shlomo Amar, Israel Meir Lau and Yona Metzger; Knesset Members and Government figures, Hon. Benjamin Netanyahu, Hon. Benny Begin, Hon. Yuli Edelstein, Hon. Tzachi Hanegbi, Hon. Yoel Hasson, Hon. Reuven Rivlin, Hon. Natan Sharansky and Efraim Halevy; Rabbis, Professors, Journalists, and Scholars including Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz, Rabbi Shmuel Rabinowitz, Dr. Eitan Elaram, Professor Daniel Hershkowitz, Rona Ramon and Rabbi Shmuel Eliyahu.\n\nMachon Shmuel: The Sami Rohr Research Institute, under the auspices of The Rohr Jewish Learning Institute, has already begun serving dozens of Shluchim worldwide with the experienced Torah scholarship of a dedicated team, providing thorough background research and comprehensive sources covering practically every topic in Torah literature.\n\nRohr JLI has chapters in Russian speaking communities around the world:\n\n\nJLI produced \"With my Whole Broken Heart\" a documentary about parents whose children's lives were claimed by terror.\n\nSince the fall of 2010, JLI has been a provider of adult Jewish education through the Kohelet Fellowships program, a two-year Jewish learning experience for parents of Jewish day school students. Fellows study Jewish texts, either in courses or one-on-one, participate in community learning events, and explore the lessons with their families. Fellows receive tuition breaks from their children's schools funded by grants from the Kohelet Foundation and its financial partners. Courses on Judaism and study partners for the participating parents are arranged by JLI and Yeshiva University's Center for a Jewish Future.\n\nJLI was founded in 1998. The first JLI course, Jewish Mysticism, was piloted at fifteen Chabad centers in 1999. The institute expanded thereafter with controlled growth, introducing the learning program to between fifteen and twenty new cities annually until 2005, when JLI added forty new cities. Since its inception in 1998, over 260,000 students have completed JLI courses, with enrollment of 12,000 to 16,000 students each semester. , JLI has developed forty-three separate six-week courses, the most popular of which have been on the topics of Jewish thought, law, and mysticism.\n\nIn 2005, JLI materials were translated into the first foreign language, Spanish, to serve the Jewish communities of Central and South America.\nIn 2011, curriculum in Hebrew was developed and piloted in ten Israeli cities. There are currently thirty JLI locations in Israel as well as classes in Hebrew throughout the world in communities with large concentrations of Israeli ex-pats.\nThe Russian language division was added in 2012 and currently consists of forty chapters throughout the former CIS. JLI course materials were developed in German the same year, and are taught in five cities in Germany.\nAs of 2013, 382 chapters in twenty-four countries and thirty-one U.S. states offer flagship JLI courses.\nIn 2005, JLI launched its Torah Studies division, which is currently active in 248 communities around the world, and piloted its first JLI Teens curriculum.\nThe Sinai Scholars Society was introduced on three college campuses in 2006 and has since expanded to seventy campuses including Ivy League, state and private universities.\nOn 17 August 2014, Chabad Jewish Center of Lake Tahoe celebrated their first anniversary.\n\nThe JLI Academy provides ongoing training to its affiliated instructors in pedagogy and in-depth study of subjects relating to curriculum content. The Academy organizes an annual conference, intermittent webinars, podcasts, interactive instruction and one-to-one training opportunities.\nThe JLI Academy also serves as a forum of discussion between the curriculum development team and affiliates. The Academy acts as a sounding board for instructors, and provides guidance.\n\nThe JLI Conference is dedicated to sharing tips and ideas for adult education, learning new ways of expanding and improving the more than 350 JLI chapters around the world. The conference includes renowned experts including Rabbi Issamar Ginzberg, Yeshiva University's Dr. David Pelcovitz, Direct Marketing Pioneer Alan Rosenspan, Renowned Communication Educator Michael Brandwein, Professor Jonathan Sarna, Rabbi Berel Bell, and Rabbi Yosef Yitzchak Jacobson.\n\n\nAdvisory Board of Governors:\nMembers:\n\n\nExecutive Committee:\n\nDepartment Heads:\n"}
{"id": "23672935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23672935", "title": "S. M. I. Henry", "text": "S. M. I. Henry\n\nS. M. I. Henry (pen name, Dina Linwood; November 4, 1839 – January 16, 1900) was an American evangelist, temperance reformer, poet and author. \n\nShe married James W. Henry in 1861, but was widowed by 1871. There were a trio of children born from this union: Mary, Alfred, and Arthur. Henry was among the first to join the Women's Crusade. From the beginning of the organization of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), she was associated with the national body as superintendent of evangelical work and as evangelist. For seven years, she was associated with gospel temperance in Rockford, Illinois. In 1888, she served as the chairperson of the National WCTU's Evangelistic Bureau. A partial record of this work is found in her book \"Pledge and Cross\". \n\nHer published books number fourteen, of which two, \"Victoria\" and \"Marble Cross\", were poems. The prose works were \"After the Truth\", in four volumes, \"Pledge and Cross\", \"Voice of the Home and its Legend\", \"Mabel's Work\", \"One More Chance\", \"Beforehand\", \"Afterward\", \"Unanswered Prayer\", and \"Frances Raymond's Investment\". Henry occupied pulpits among all denominations throughout the United States. Through her evangelistic work saloons were closed, churches built and hundreds converted.\n\nSarepta Myrenda Irish was born in Albion, Pennsylvania, November 4, 1839. She was of New England ancestry. \n\nHer father, Rev. Horatio Nelson Irish, was an architect before he became a Methodist clergyman. He was preaching in Albion at the time of the daughter's birth. In 1841, he was sent to Illinois as a missionary, where he did pioneer work. Her mother was Mary Allis Clark Irish. Her great grandfather, on the mother's side, was a surgeon in the American Revolutionary War; her grandfather, a captain of militia in the war of 1812. Her father's family were Quakers. \n\nShe learned to read from her Bible that her grandmother gave her when a very little child. Her father taught her himself until she was nineteen. She had hardly ever attended school until, in 1859, Henry entered the Rock River Seminary, in Mount Morris, Illinois, under the reign of President Harlow, when she had for her pastor Rev. John H. Vincent, then just coming into his life work. Recognition had been given to her literary ability, and during her school days, she won many honors in composition. Very early in life, she showed considerable power in composing; in fact, her mind was expressing her thoughts in verse before she had a knowledge of meter and rhyme. The first production of her pen to appear in print was a poem published during the year 1855, in the \"Northwestern Christian Advocate\". From that time on, she became a steady contributor to various religious magazines, writing more often, however, for \"The Ladies' Repository\", assuming the name of \"Dina Linwood\", until sometime in the year 1859, when she yielded to her father's suggestion to drop the \"nom de plume\". During the first term at school, she was called home to see her father die. He had been an invalid for eight years, and she was his constant companion, reading and writing for him. She even used to do her thinking aloud to him. \n\nHenry was fond of literary pursuits from childhood, and her mother humored all her poetic fancies with no responsibility. Her school life was spent at Mount Morris, Illinois, where began an acquaintance with many choice men and women who helped her future. Rev. Dr. John H. Vincent was her pastor and friend, and with his wife took her under their care, and made it possible for her to rally and go on after her bereavement. Her boarding-place was in the home of Rev. B. H. Cartwright. A portion of every day was spent with him and his wife in their study, and a tie was formed then that has but strengthened in future years.\n\nHenry had many convictions that she ought to enter the foreign missionary field. \n\nShe married James W. Henry of East Homer, New York, March 1, 1861. Her husband was a scholar and poet, as well as a teacher by profession. He enlisted at the start of the American Civil War. He was not, however, mustered in at first, because he was a bit under regulation height, so husband and wife went East, to his home, and settled down on a farm. Here was born, in June, their daughter Mary. It was during the first year of Mary's life, that Henry's first book, \"Victoria\", was written. That poem was not published until Mr. Henry was a soldier. He enlisted again in October, 1864, in the 185th New York Volunteer Infantry, Company E. Her oldest son, Alfred, was born April 4, 1865. The husband came home an invalid in July, 1865, having been in every battle and on every long march of the closing campaign conducted by the 5th Corps. He lived over four years, bravely battling disease, but died in 1871, and was laid to rest in the cemetery of his native valley. Arthur, the youngest son, was nearly three years old when his father died. \n\nHenry taught for the next three years; for the first two and a half in the village where she had lived, but later on returned to her Illinois home. She began teaching in Rockford, Illinois under Professor Barbour, in the public school, and was trying to get her children settled in a home where she could have them with her, when good fortune came her way. As a result, she moved into the home she sought where she began writing the \"After Truth\" series, for which she was paid a fair price. \n\nShe became involved with the Women's Crusade in 1873-74. Being a timid woman, no one expected her to do anything in public, but under the pressure of her convictions, she made the call for Christian women to come together, and became the mouthpiece of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) on March 27,1873. She made her first public address in the State Street Baptist Church, Rockford, during the Crusade, to an audience that overflowed into the street. She was very conservative and always looked to the time when she would return to literary work; but as the years passed, it becomes more and more evident that it was a lifework to which she was then called. \n\nA Reform Club was organized the year after she began her work. \"Pledge and Cross\" told the story of its redemption. She gave five full years to active temperance work in Rockford, one year of Gospel work in Michigan, and three years in the field in Illinois. In July 1879, Henry removed to Evanston, Illinois to educate her children at Northwestern University.\n\nHenry was one of the WCTU's most effective speakers at the Illinois State Capitol when they presented the great \"Home Protection Petition.\" She made the memorable plea from the point of view of a widow with fatherless children, and asked the same power to protect them from the dram shops which their father would have possessed had he not died. Her lecture on \"What is the Boy Worth?\" was a masterly presentation of the most vital question of the hour, and was given with telling effect in scores of towns and cities. \n\nThe book, \"Roy, or The Voice of his Home\", was one of Henry's best. Its sequel was, \"Mabel's Work\". \"Pledge and Cross\" had the largest sale of any book of its kind, and conveyed the essence of the Gospel Temperance Crusade. All were published by John Newton Stearns, New York.\n\nThe Temperance Training Institute was founded by Henry, by which normal Sunday School methods were applied to the understanding of temperance work, the spiritual side being strongly emphasized. Dr. Vincent invited Henry to prepare a series of Biblical Temperance Lessons for the \"Sunday-School Teacher\". Henry was also superintendent of the WCTU's National Training School for Temperance Workers.\n\nIn later life, she became a Seventh-day Adventist, and she spent part of her time in mission work in the slums of Chicago, in connection with the old Bethsaida Mission. Henry succumbed to pneumonia on January 16, 1900 in Graysville, Tennessee.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46988532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46988532", "title": "Sociology of Religion (journal)", "text": "Sociology of Religion (journal)\n\nSociology of Religion is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the sociology of religion. It was established in 1973 as SA: Sociological Analysis, obtaining its current name in 1993. It is published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association for the Sociology of Religion, of which it is the official journal. The editor-in-chief is Gerardo Marti (Davidson College). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.370.\n"}
{"id": "27684360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27684360", "title": "Sunwani", "text": "Sunwani\n\nThe Sunwani are a Hindu Bania found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They use the surname Gupta, and are sometimes referred to as Gupta.\n\nThe Sunwani are a Bania sub-caste, and are a community associated with trade. They are found mainly in the districts of Farukhabad, Hardoi. Lakhimpur Kheri, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, and Sitapur. The Sunwani speak Awadhi, although most Sunwani can speak Hindi. They are an endogamous community, although there are instances of marriage with the Agarwal, another Bania community.\n\nThe Sunwani have remained associated with trade. A few Sunwani are a land holders, but rarely cultivate the land. Like other Bania groups, they have seen a marked urbanization.\n"}
{"id": "54043182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54043182", "title": "Taoist Church of Italy", "text": "Taoist Church of Italy\n\nThe Taoist Church of Italy (TCI for short; in Italian: \"Chiesa Taoista d'Italia\", \"CTI\" for short) is a religious body of Taoism established in 2013 by Vincenzo di Ieso, a fourteenth-generation Taoist master of the Xuanwu school of the Wudang Mountains (武当玄武派 \"Wǔdāng Xuánwǔ pài\"), into which he was initiated in 1993 with the ecclesiastical name of Li Xuanzong. Despite the founder's particular affiliation, the church intends to incorporate all forms of Taoism in Italy. The establishment of the church has been defined by a scholar of religious rights as a \"crucial event for both Taoism and religious freedom in Italy\".\n\nAfter an earlier experience as the \"Taoist Association of Italy\" (\"Associazione Taoista d’Italia\") in the 1990s, master Vincenzo di Ieso—Li Xuanzong ordained the first Italian disciples into Taoist priesthood in 2010, then formally constituting the Taoist Church of Italy on 14 November 2013.\n\nThe statute of the organization is \"designed according to Italian regulations and in the perspective of a future agreement with the state\" (under article 8 of the Constitution of Italy, the Italian state officially recognizes a number of religious bodies through legal agreements). The Taoist Church of Italy would be the \"first case in the world of a Taoist institution adopting such a type of confessional organization\", according to the description given by the Italian CESNUR. At its dawn in China, however, Taoism organized itself into communitarian-confessional experiences, to develop in later centuries merely as an ensemble of ritual traditions exercised by priestly lineages (transmitted generation by generation or by ordination) and monastic orders. Such character is maintained in contemporary China, where those who qualify for the title of \"Taoist\" are only the initiates of priestly and monastic orders, who exert their sacerdotal function within the framework of Chinese folk religion.\n\nAccording to the statute of the church, \"adherents\" are all those members who are not \"Taoists\", that is to say all those members who have not formally undertaken any Taoist religious engagement and yet participate, even temporarily, to the activities of the church.\n\nThe Taoist Church of Italy, which is recognized by the Chinese Taoist Association, makes a distinction between its lay members and its sacerdotal body in accordance with the Chinese Taoist tradition. Only the members of the sacerdotal body, whether novices or already ordained ones, may call themselves \"Taoists\" in the Chinese acceptation of the term (that is \"daoshi\", literally \"masters of the Tao\").\n\nAll lay members may have access to the novitiate, formally choosing to apply Taoist ethical principles into their own life. Through an initiation, members may pass from the degree of adherents to that of novices, and thenceforth they may attend the courses of the Higher Academy of Taoist Education. If novices are then accepted as disciples by a master (\"shifu\"), a fully ordained priest, they may take the vows and be ordained themselves as \"daoshi\".\n\nIn the Taoist Church of Italy, \"Taoists\" or \"actual Taoists\" are all the novices and fully ordained priests. They guide the church (that is the body formed by all adherents) exerting liturgical functions and spiritual assistance. Newly ordained priests are formally appointed as \"daoshi\" by the Taoist Holy Ecclesiastical College, whose members confer on them the \"License for the Ministerial Exercise of Taoist Liturgy\" and inscribe them into the \"Public Register of the Taoist Clergy\". The newly ordained clergymen may choose, in accordance with their own vocation, to be simply priests with the possibility of getting married, or monks taking the vow of chastity. Thus, the Taoist Church of Italy embodies both the priestly and the monastic traditions of Taoism, which in China are respectively represented by the \"Right Unity\" orders (正一道 \"Zhèngyīdào\") and by the \"Full Truth\" orders (全真道 \"Quánzhēndào\"). According to the statute of the church, there is no substantial difference between the two orders, being both equated in training and functions.\n\nThe Higher Academy of Taoist Education is a school of university level. It works under the aegis of the Chinese Taoist Association organizing three-year courses for training Taoist novices in the theory, liturgy and energetic medicine of Taoism.\n\nThe Taoist Holy Ecclesiastical College is a body of \"daoshi\" whose number may vary based on the needs of the occasion and on the numerical consistency of the entire clergy of the Taoist Church of Italy. Only those clergymen who are forty years of age and who have matured at least five years of religious activity may enter the college, although clergymen who do not meet such requirements and yet have matured exceptional merits may be admitted too into it. The Holy College is directed by a prior, a \"primus inter pares\". The Holy College remains in office for four years and the constituent members may not receive more than two mandates.\n\nAccording to the most recent data relative to the year 2014, provided by the Taoist Church of Italy to the CESNUR, the church is composed of 403 lessons’ attendants, 352 participants, 83 novices and 16 fully ordained \"Taoists\" (\"daoshi\").\n\n"}
{"id": "28037473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28037473", "title": "Tattama", "text": "Tattama\n\nThe Tattama are Hindu caste found in the state of Bihar in India.\n\nThe Tattama are one of the traditional weaving Pan caste of south Bihar and Jharkhand .According to their traditions, they are descended from the sweat of the Hindu god Shiva. They have three sub-divisions, the Kanaujiya, Maghaiya and Tirhutia. The community is found mainly in the districts of Darbhanga,khangretha, Muzaffarpur, Begusarai, Saharsa, Madhepura Supaul, Purnia, Vaishali, Samastipur and Saran. They speak both Hindi and Maithili. The community are classified as scheduled caste The community consists of a number of exogamous clans.\n\nThe Tattama are now mainly stonemasons and Beedi manufacturers, but with most Tattama having given up weaving. The Tanti speak Panchpargania dialect of Hindi. Many Tattama have emigrated to Punjab and Haryana, and work as agricultural labourers. Their traditions are similar to other Hindu weaving castes, such as the Koshta and Tanti.\n"}
{"id": "412684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412684", "title": "Three Pure Ones", "text": "Three Pure Ones\n\nThe Three Pure Ones () also translated as the Three Pure Pellucid Ones, the Three Pristine Ones, the Three Divine Teachers, the Three Clarities, or the Three Purities are the Taoist Trinity, the three highest Gods in the Taoist pantheon. They are regarded as pure manifestation of the Tao and the origin of all sentient beings. From the Taoist classic \"Tao Te Ching\", it was held that \"The Tao produced One; One produced Two; Two produced Three; Three produced All things.\" It is generally agreed that:\nTao produced One—Wuji produced Taiji; One produced Two—Taiji produced Yin and Yang [or Liangyi (兩儀) in scholastic term]. However, the subject of how Two produced Three has remained a popular debate among Taoist Scholars. Most scholars believe that it refers to the Interaction between Yin and Yang, with the presence of Chi, or life force.\n\nIn religious Taoism, the theory of how Tao produces One, Two, and Three is also explained. In Tao produces One—Wuji produces Taiji, it represents the Great Tao, embodied by Hùndùn Wújí Yuánshǐ Tiānwáng (混沌無極元始天王, \"Heavenly King of the Chaotic Never-ending Primordial Beginning\") at a time of pre-Creation when the Universe was still null and the cosmos was in disorder; manifesting into the first of the Taoist Trinity, Yuánshǐ Tiānzūn. Yuánshǐ Tiānzūn oversees the earliest phase of Creation of the Universe, and is henceforth known as Dàobǎo (道寶) \"Treasure of the Tao\". In One produces Two—Taiji produces Yin Yang, Yuanshi Tianzun manifests into Lingbao Tianzun who separated the Yang from the Yin, the clear from the murky, and classified the elements into their rightful groups. Therefore, he is also known as Jīngbǎo (經寶) \"Treasure of the Law/Scripture\". While Jīng in popular understanding means \"scriptures\", in this context it also mean \"passing through\" [the phase of Creation] and the Laws of Nature of how things are meant to be. In the final phase of Creation, Daode Tianzun is manifested from Língbăo Tiānzūn to bring civilization and preach the Law to all living beings. Therefore, He is also known as Shībǎo (師寶) \"Treasure of the Master\".\n\nEach of the Three Pure Ones represents both a deity and a heaven. Yuanshi Tianzun rules the first heaven, Yu-Qing, which is found in the Jade Mountain. The entrance to this heaven is named the Golden Door. \"He is the source of all truth, as the sun is the source of all light\". Lingbao Tianzun rules over the heaven of Shang-Qing. Daode Tianzun rules over the heaven of Tai-Qing. The Three Pure Ones are often depicted as throned elders.\n\nSchools of Taoist thought developed around each of these deities. Taoist Alchemy was a large part of these schools, as each of the Three Pure Ones represented one of the three essential fields of the body: jing, qi and shen. The congregation of all three Pure Ones resulted in the return to Tao.\n\nThe first Pure One is universal or heavenly chi. The second Pure One is human plane chi, and the third Pure One is earth chi. Heavenly chi includes the chi or energy of all the planets, stars and constellations as well as the energy of God (the force of creation and universal love). Human plane chi is the energy that exists on the surface of our planet and sustains human life, and the earth force includes all of the forces inside the planet as well as the five elemental forces.\n\nAs the Three Pure Ones are manifestations of Primordial Celestial Energy, they are formless. But to illustrate their role in Creation, they are often portrayed as elderly deities robed in the three basic colours from which all colours originated: Red, Blue and Yellow (or Green) depending on personal interpretation of colour origins by additive or subtractive means. Each of them holds onto a divine object associated with their task. Yuánshǐ Tiānzūn is usually depicted holding the Pearl of Creation, signifying his role in creating the Universe from void and chaos. The Ruyi held by Lingbao Tianzun represents authority: the second phase of Creation where the Yang was separated from the Yin and the Law of Things was ordered in place. Lingbao Tianzun then took his seat on the left of Yuanshi Tianzun. Later, when all was complete, Daode Tianzun took his place on the right, with the fan symbolizing the completion of Creation, and the act of fanning representing the spreading of Tao to all Mankind.\n\nYuanshi Tianzun (, \"Lord of Primordial Beginning\") is also known as the \"Jade Pure One\" () or \"Honoured Lord of the Origin\".\n\nFor more information, see \"Yuanshi Tianzun\".\n\nLingbao Tianzun (靈寶天尊, \"Lord of the Numinous Treasure\") is also known as the \"Supreme Pure One\" () or \"The Universally Honoured One of Divinities and Treasures\".\n\nLingbao Tianzun is associated with yin and yang and was responsible as the custodian of the sacred book. Lingbao Tianzun also calculates time and divides it into different epochs.\n\nDaode Tianzun (道德天尊, \"Lord of the Way and its Virtue\" or \"Honoured Lord of the Tao and the Virtue\"), also known as the \"Grand Pure One\" () or the \"Highest Elder Lord\" (太上老君, Taishang Laojun).\n\nIt is believed that Daode Tianzun manifested himself in the form of Laozi. Daode Tianzun is also the treasurer of spirits, known as the Lord of Man who is the founder of Taoism. He is the most eminent, aged ruler, which is why he is the only Pure One depicted with a pure white beard.\n\nAccording to Daozang, Daode Tianzun had manifested many various incarnations to teach living beings, and Laozi is one of his incarnations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7762089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7762089", "title": "Vaishnava-Sahajiya", "text": "Vaishnava-Sahajiya\n\nVaishnava-Sahajiya is a form of tantric Vaishnavism that centred in Bengal, India. It had precursors from the 14th century, but originated in its definitive form in the 16th century. \"Vaishnava-Sahajiya\" is generally considered as a 'left-hand path' (Sanskrit: \"vāmācāra\") and apostate (Sanskrit: \"apasampradaya\"; see Sampradaya) from the \"orthodox\" or vedic standpoint, though followers claim that this view stems from a superficial understanding. There are both right-handed and left-handed Vaishnava-Sahajiyas Dakshinachara may be rendered into English as \"right (Dakshina) (path to) attainment (chara)\", while Vamachara may be rendered into English as \"left (vama) (path to) attainment (chara)\". The Dakshinacharyas (\"Right Attainers\") are the ones that practice the Panchamakara ('Five Ms') symbolically or through substitutions, whilst the Vamacharyas (\"Left Attainers\") are the ones that practice it literally.\n\nShashibhusan Dasgupta (1946, 1962: p. 131) holds that there are two hundred and fifty \"manuscripts of small texts\" in the Calcutta University which are associated with the Sahajiya, and that there is a comparable number of manuscripts held in common with Calcutta University in the library of the Bangīya-sāhitya-pariṣad. Wendy Doniger (1989: p.xxii) in the Forward to Dimock (1989) affirms that The Asiatic Society in Calcutta holds a large collection of manuscripts and also states that \"...the number of manuscripts in private libraries is indefinite but almost certainly huge.\"\n\nShashibhusan Dasgupta (1976: p. 114) to his third edition (1969) reprint (1976) of his seminal text on five sahaja traditions entitled \"Obscure Religious Cults\" first published in 1946, holds that:\n\"The lyrics belonging to the Vaiṣṇava Sahajiyā school are generally ascribed to the well-known poet Caṇḍidāsa and to some other poets like Vidyāpati, Rūpa, Sanātana, Vṛndāvana-dāsa, Kṛṣṇa-dāsa Kavirāja, Narahari, Narottama, Locana, Caitanya-dāsa and others, and the innumerable Sahajiyā texts are also ascribed to their authorship.\"\nCaṇḍidāsa (; born 1408 CE) refers to (possibly more than one) medieval poet of Bengal. Over 1250 poems related to the love of Radha and Krishna in Bengali with the \"bhanita\" of Chandidas are found with three different sobriquets along with his name, \"\", \"Dvija\" and \"Dina\" as well as without any sobriquet also. It is not clear whether these \"bhanita\"s actually refer to the same person or not. It is assumed by some modern scholars that the poems which are current in the name of Chandidas are actually the works of at least four different Chandidas, who are distinguished from each other by their sobriquets found in the \"bhanita\"s. It is also assumed that the earliest of them was Ananta Chandidas, who has been more or less identified as a historical figure born in the 14th century in Birbhum district of the present-day West Bengal state and wrote the lyrical \"Srikrishna Kirtan\" (Songs in praise of Krishna).\n\nA sahajiya poem of Vidyāpati (1352? - 1448?) is rendered into English by David R. Kinsley (1975: p. 48-49) thus:\n\nThe Vaishnava-Sahajiya sought religious experience through the five senses which included human coupling and sexual love. \"Sahaja\" (Sanskrit: “easy” or “natural”) as a system of worship was prevalent in the Tantric traditions common to both Hinduism and Buddhism in Bengal as early as the 8th–9th centuries. \"Sahaja\" was evident in the teachings and poetry of Mahasiddha Saraha (c.8th century CE, Bengal, Nalanda).\n\nThe tradition used the romance between Krishna and Radha as a metaphor for union with God, and sought to experience that union through its physical reenactment. It teaches that the ideal way to understand the union of humanity is to transcend the profane aspects of sexual intercourse and experience it as a divine act.\n\nThe Vaisnava-Sahajiya creed is a synthesis of these various traditions. The Vaisnava-Sahajiyas operated in secrecy because their sexual tantric practices were viewed with marked disdain by other religious communities. In their literature they adopted an enigmatic style employing substitutions and correspondences that has come to be known as twilight language (Sanskrit: \"saṃdhyā-bhāṣā\"). Little is known about their prevalence or practices.\n\nThe cult was centered in Bengal. It began in the 16th century, although predecessors existed as early as the 8th century in the same city. The founder is generally thought to be Baru Chandidas, who lived in the 14th century. In order to avoid unwanted attention, the group spoke of its activities in cryptic language.\n\nMembers of this lineage enacted the 'group in a round' Ganachakra (Sanskrit) or circle dance now known as the Rasa-lila of Krishna. It is a mystery religion rite, wherein the followers participated in a rite of communion, trance possession, and nondifference or nonduality with 'deity' (Sanskrit: ishtadevata).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1661406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1661406", "title": "Vicar general", "text": "Vicar general\n\nA vicar general (previously, archdeacon) is the principal deputy of the bishop of a diocese for the exercise of administrative authority and possesses the title of local ordinary. As vicar of the bishop, the vicar general exercises the bishop's ordinary executive power over the entire diocese and, thus, is the highest official in a diocese or other particular church after the diocesan bishop or his equivalent in canon law. The title normally occurs only in Western Christian churches, such as the Latin Church of the Catholic Church and the Anglican Communion. Among the Eastern churches, the Mar Thoma Syrian Church of Kerala uses this title and remains an exception. The title for the equivalent officer in the Eastern churches is syncellus and protosyncellus.\n\nThe term is used by many religious orders of men in a similar manner, designating the authority in the Order after its Superior General.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, a diocesan bishop must appoint at least one vicar general for his diocese, but may appoint more—dioceses whose territory is split into different states usually have one each. The vicar general by virtue of office is the bishop's agent in administration, acting as second-in-command for diocesan executive matters. (A priest in a separate office, the judicial vicar, serves a similar role with regard to the exercise of ordinary judicial power of governance in the diocese which is normally exercised in ecclesiastical courts.) Vicars general must be priests, auxiliary bishops, or coadjutor bishops—if a coadjutor bishop exists for a diocese, the diocesan bishop is to appoint him as a vicar general. Other auxiliary bishops are usually appointed vicars general or at least episcopal vicars. A vicar general is a local ordinary and, as such, acquires his powers by virtue of office and not by delegation. He is to possess a doctorate or at least a licentiate in canon law (JCL, JCD) or theology (STL, STD) or be truly expert in these fields.\n\nThe similarly titled episcopal vicar shares in the bishop's ordinary executive power like the vicar general, except for the fact that the episcopal vicar's authority normally extends over only a particular geographic section of a diocese or over certain specific matters. These might include issues concerning religious institutes or the faithful of a different rite. These too must be priests or auxiliary bishops. The equivalent officer in the Eastern Churches is called the syncellus. \n\nPriests appointed as vicars general or episcopal vicars are freely appointed or removed by the diocesan bishop, and are appointed for a fixed duration. They lose their office when the term expires, or when the episcopal see falls vacant. Auxiliary bishops may also be removed from the office of vicar general, but must at least be appointed episcopal vicar. An auxiliary bishop who is an episcopal vicar, or a coadjutor bishop who is vicar general, may only be removed from office for a grave reason. Likewise, while they lose their vicar general or episcopal vicar office title \"sede vacante\", they retain the powers of the office--specifically, those powers that can still be exercised while the see is vacant--until the succeeding bishop takes over the diocese. A coadjutor bishop has the right of succession, so if the see falls vacant he becomes the diocesan bishop immediately. These offices should not be confused with the vicar forane or \"dean/archpriest\", as such vicars do not have ordinary executive power.\n\nThe appointment of a vicar general is also a useful tool for a diocesan bishop who has additional functions attached to his episcopate. The most notable example is in the diocese of Rome. The Pope is 'ex officio' the diocesan bishop of Rome, but spends most of his time governing the Latin Church and the global Catholic Church. His vicar general therefore functions as the \"de facto\" bishop of the diocese. The Vicar General of Rome also serves the same role for the suburbicarian diocese of Ostia, the traditional see of the Dean of the College of Cardinals, ever since it was merged with the diocese of Rome. The Vicar General of Rome, who is normally a cardinal, known as the Cardinal Vicar, is one of the few church officials in Rome to remain in office \"sede vacante\". The current Vicar General of Rome is Cardinal Angelo De Donatis.\n\nA similar example is found in the United States. The archbishop of New York functioned also as ordinary of the military services from World War I until the 1980s: in addition to being responsible for the archdiocese of New York, the same archbishop was also responsible for the Military Ordinariate. This had the status of an apostolic vicariate, and functioned as the equivalent of a diocese defined by quality (that is, all Catholic members of the U.S. military and their dependents) rather than by geography. The archbishop had two separate administrations, therefore, and two sets of vicars general to manage each. This arrangement ended with the establishment of the wholly separate Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA.\n\nVicars-General retain important administrative and judicial functions in the Church of England.\n\nFollowing the Act of Supremacy of 1534, Henry VIII appointed Thomas Cromwell as his vicar general, a delegation of the powers with which Henry was invested by the Act as a result of becoming supreme head of the Church of England.\n"}
