{"id": "31323310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31323310", "title": "Act of Entrustment", "text": "Act of Entrustment\n\nAn Act of Entrustment is one of four essential requirements which must be in place under European Union law in order to ensure that the financial compensation paid to an organisation providing a public service is not treated as \"State Aid\" as defined by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.\n\nArticle 106(2) of the Treaty (formerly Article 86(2) of the European Communities Treaty), states that:\n\nIn its judgment in the case of Altmark Trans GmbH and Regierungsprasidium Magdeburg v. Nahverkehrsgesellschaft Altmark GmbH (generally referred to as 'Altmark'), the Court of Justice of the European Union held that public sector compensation does not constitute State Aid if the following four criteria are all met:\n\n\nThe European Commission has stated that an \"act of entrustment\" is necessary in order to set out the public service obligations of the undertaking and must have been committed to the organisation through an official act having legal force under the national law of the relevant EU member state. There need not be any specific legal framework covering acts of entrustment, but the act must extend sufficiently to create an obligation or accountability: permission, such as legal recognition or regulatory approval would not be sufficient. The obligation may be set out in legislation, the terms of a contract or in certain cases in a grant agreement. The act of entrustment should, in particular, state the nature, territorial scope and duration of the public service obligations, the organisation concerned, and the nature of any exclusive or special rights which the organisation may be able to exercise, along with the mechanism for calculating the level of compensation.\n"}
{"id": "21836925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21836925", "title": "Asia-Pacific Trade Agreements Database", "text": "Asia-Pacific Trade Agreements Database\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Trade and Investment Agreements Database (APTIAD) is a resource for researchers and policymakers in the area of international trade and investment. The online database allows searches in two ways. One relates to the agreements themselves where users can search by agreements, members, key terms, types and scopes of agreements and their status. Another possibility is to search publications relevant to regional integration and trade agreements. For easier use of the database, users can download a glossary of related terms from the website.\n\nThe Trade Agreements Database component of APTIAD is designed to give researchers and policymakers both an overview of, and easy access to, all the regional and bilateral trade agreements entered into or under negotiation by the countries of the Asia and Pacific region. As of June 2008 there were 136 such agreements, including those agreements that have not been notified to the WTO but for which there is official information readily available, and also those agreements under negotiation for which there has been at least a first formal negotiation round.\n\nThe Interactive Trade Indicators component of APTIAD is designed to help policymakers calculate some of the most commonly used indicators related to trade performance of national economies and/or trade agreements.\n\nThe Interactive Trade Indicator Database enables you to select indicators (e.g. export/import value, export/import growth, export/import share, trade share, trade intensity) by country or region, product and year. Export flows are downloaded from UN COMTRADE using World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS) for the last 10 years (at present 1998-2007) for selected developed and developing countries in the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Trade Agreements Database (APTIAD) is a product of the Trade and Investment Division of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40150831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40150831", "title": "Card, Cross and Jones: Criminal Law", "text": "Card, Cross and Jones: Criminal Law\n\nCard, Cross and Jones: Criminal Law, formerly published as An Introduction to Criminal Law and as Cross and Jones' Introduction to Criminal Law, and referred to as Cross and Jones, is a book about the criminal law of England and Wales, originally written by Sir Rupert Cross and Philip Asterley Jones, and then edited by them and Richard Card. It was published by Butterworths and is now published by Oxford University Press.\n\nThis book was so popular that the second edition was published within a year of the first. It has been described as \"a serious contribution to the study of the criminal law\" and as an \"old and trusted friend\".\n\nThe First Edition was published in January 1948, the Second in January 1949, the Third in July 1953, the Fourth in April 1959, the Fifth in June 1964, the Sixth in October 1968, the Seventh in July 1972, the Eighth in May 1976, the Ninth in July 1980, the Tenth in May 1984, the Eleventh in April 1988, the Twelfth in April 1992, and the Twentieth in 2012.\n\nGoogle Books:\n"}
{"id": "5397081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5397081", "title": "Chamade", "text": "Chamade\n\nIn war, a chamade was a certain beat of a drum, or sound of a trumpet, which was addressed to the enemy as a kind of signal, to inform them of some proposition to be made to the commander; either to capitulate, to have leave to bury their dead, make a truce, etc. Gilles Ménage derives the word from the Italian \"chiamate\", from Latin \"clamare\", to cry.\n"}
{"id": "38362051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38362051", "title": "Dallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Co v Ministry of Religious Affairs (Pakistan)", "text": "Dallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Co v Ministry of Religious Affairs (Pakistan)\n\nDallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Co v Ministry of Religious Affairs (Pakistan) [2010] UKSC 46 was a 2010 judgment of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom. The case concerned whether an arbitration agreement made by the International Chamber of Commerce tribunal in Paris could be enforced against the government of Pakistan in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "21161663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21161663", "title": "Debbie Smith Act", "text": "Debbie Smith Act\n\nThe Debbie Smith Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 13701) provides United States federal government grants to eligible states and units of local government to conduct DNA analyses of backlogged DNA samples collected from victims of crimes and criminal offenders. The Act expands the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) and provides legal assistance to survivors of dating violence. Named after sexual assault survivor Debbie Smith, the Act was passed by the 108th Congress as part of larger legislation, the Justice for All Act of 2004 (P.L. 108-405), and signed into law by President George W. Bush on October 30, 2004. The Act amends the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14135), the DNA Identification Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14132) and the Violence Against Women Act of 2000. The Act was reauthorized in 2008, extending the availability of DNA backlog reduction program grants, DNA evidence training and education program grants, and sexual assault forensic exam program grants through fiscal year 2014.\n\nOn March 3, 1989, a man wearing a ski mask entered Debbie Smith's Williamsburg, Virginia, home and threatened her with a gun, dragged her into the woods, blindfolded her and raped her repeatedly over the next hour. She participated in the collection of DNA evidence for a rape kit, but it was not formally tested and entered into a national database until 1994.\n\nOn July 24, 1995, a DNA technician identified Debbie's attacker, Norman Jimmerson, while analyzing various DNA records. Jimmerson, then serving time for abducting and robbing two women in 1989, was sentenced to 161 years in prison under the three strikes law.\n\nThe Act attempts to eliminate backlogs of DNA samples collected from crime victims and criminal offenders, to expand the number and type of samples included in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), and to provide legal assistance to survivors of dating violence. The Act amends the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14135) to reauthorize and broaden the number of eligible grantees under the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program. The Act expands eligible grantees to include local units of government and authorizes the appropriation of $151,000,000 each year for fiscal years 2005 through 2009 to states and local units of government to conduct DNA analyses of backlogged DNA samples collected from victims and criminal offenders. Under the Act, the Attorney General may award grants to eligible grantees to alleviate backlogs requiring a forensic science other than DNA analysis pending the state or local unit of government can certify that no significant backlog awaits DNA analysis and that there is no immediate need for laboratory equipment, supplies, or additional personnel to ensure the timely processing of future DNA evidence. The Act also amends the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14135) to provide for the use of vouchers or contracts for laboratory services to assist in the reduction of backlogged DNA evidence.\n\nThe Act amends the DNA Identification Act of 1994 to provide for the inclusion of DNA samples collected from individuals charged in an indictment or information with a crime and individuals whose DNA samples are collected by proper legal authorities into the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS).\n\nThe Act amends the Violence Against Women Act of 2000 to broaden the type of survivors eligible for legal assistance to include survivors of dating violence.\n\nThe Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2008 maintains previous appropriation levels for the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program through 2014. The 2008 Reauthorization amends the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 by authorizing the appropriation of $151,000,000 each year for fiscal years 2009 through 2014 for grants to eligible states and local units of government to conduct DNA analyses of backlogged DNA samples collected from victims and criminal offenders.\n\nThe Reauthorization Act of 2008 amends the DNA Sexual Assault Justice Act of 2004 to extend DNA training and education grant programs for law enforcement, correctional personnel and court officers through 2014. The Act authorizes the appropriation of $12,500,000 each year for fiscal years 2009 through 2014 for training, technical assistance and education for law enforcement, correctional personnel and court officers regarding the identification, collection, preservation and analysis of DNA samples and evidence. The Act also maintains sexual assault forensic exam program grants through 2014, authorizing the appropriation of $30,000,000 each year for fiscal years 2009 through 2014. Eligible states, units of local government and sexual assault examination programs can apply for sexual assault forensic exam program grants for training, technical assistance and education regarding the identification, collection, preservation and analysis of DNA samples and evidence.\n\nOn March 27, 2014, Goodlatte introduced the Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2014 (H.R. 4323; 113th Congress) into the House. The bill would amend the Debbie Smith Act of 2004 in order to reauthorize funding through Fiscal Year 2019 for the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program, sexual assault forensic exam program grants, and DNA training and education for law enforcement, correctional personnel, and court officers. The bill would authorize the appropriation of $968 million over the 2015-2019 period. The grant program would go to the states to run programs to analyze DNA samples from crime victims. The House voted on April 7, 2014 to pass the bill in a voice vote.\n\nInvestigations conducted by CBS News and by Human Rights Watch have revealed that despite five years and millions in federal funding, rape kit backlogs persist in the United States and have increased in several grant supported states and counties. According to a 2009 CBS News investigation, at least 20,000 untested rape kits were being held in four major U.S. cities and an additional twelve major cities had no idea how many rape kits remained untested in law enforcement storage facilities. An October 2008 audit of the Los Angeles city crime lab by Human Rights Watch revealed that rape kit backlogs increased between 2004 and 2008, despite nearly $4 million in Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Program grants. In January 2007, the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) revealed that approximately 5,000 rape kits resided in LAPD storage facilities. By July 2008 the backlog grew to 7,300, but was later estimated at 5,193 by a February 2009 audit.\n\nThe National Institute of Justice (NIJ), the research arm of the U.S. Department of Justice, has also conducted research into the continued development of the DNA forensic evidence backlog. In their research, the NIJ tracked the processing of the two main types of DNA evidence: \"casework\" DNA and \"convicted offender and arrestee\" DNA. Casework DNA refers to DNA samples collected from crime scenes, victims and suspects in criminal cases, while convicted offender and arrestee DNA refers to samples taken in accordance with state and federal laws for entry into the Federal Bureau of Investigation's CODIS system. In a 2010 survey, the NIJ found that the nationwide casework DNA backlog exceeded 111,500 samples, a substantial increase over the 38,000 cases considered to be backlogged in a 2005 Bureau of Justice Statistics survey. Convicted offender and arrestee DNA samples have experienced even more substantial backlogging according to the NIJ, although there is a larger number of convicted offender and arrestee samples sent for processing. Regardless, a 2009 NIJ study found that the year-end backlog of convicted offender and arrestee samples had reached over 950,000 samples, almost the equivalent of an entire year's capacity for the nation's crime laboratories.\n\n"}
{"id": "4087224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4087224", "title": "Doctor of Canon Law", "text": "Doctor of Canon Law\n\nDoctor of Canon Law (; J.C.D.) is the doctoral-level terminal degree in the studies of canon law of the Roman Catholic Church. It can also be an honorary degree awarded by Anglican colleges.\n\nIt may also be abbreviated I.C.D. or dr.iur.can. (\"Iuris Canonici Doctor\"), ICDr., D.C.L., D.Cnl., D.D.C., or D.Can.L. (\"Doctor of Canon Law\"). A Doctor of both laws (i.e. canon and civil) is a J.U.D. (\"Juris Utriusque Doctor\"), or U.J.D. (\"Utriusque Juris Doctor\").\n\nA doctorate in canon law normally requires earning the degree Licentiate of Canon Law, then at least two years of additional study and the development and defense of an original dissertation that contributes to the development of canon law. Only a pontifical university or ecclesiastical faculties of canon law may grant the doctorate or licentiate in canon law.\n\nThe Licentiate of Canon Law is a three-year degree. The prerequisite for it is normally the graduate level Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.), a master of divinity (M.Div.), a Master of Arts in Roman Catholic theology (M.A.).\n\nWhile not a civil law degree, the doctor of canon law is in some ways comparable to the Doctor of Juridical Science (J.S.D.) or doctor of laws (L.L.D.) in terms of the nature of study as they are terminal academic research degrees as opposed to professional degrees.\n\nMembers of the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura, Auditors of the Tribunal of the Roman Rota, judicial vicars, ecclesiastical judges, defenders of the bond, and promoters of justice, must possess either a doctorate or license in canon law. Either of the degrees is recommended for those who serve as vicar general or episcopal vicar in a diocese. Candidates for bishop must either possess the doctorate in canon law or the doctorate in sacred theology or be truly expert in one of those fields. Canonical advocates must possess the doctorate or be truly expert.\n\nThe Roman Church has the oldest continuously used homogenous legal system in the world. Following the Gregorian Reform's emphasis on canon law, bishops formed cathedral schools to train the clergy in canon law. Consequently, many of the medieval universities of Europe founded faculties of canon law (e.g., Cambridge and Oxford). Since the Protestant Reformation, however, they became limited to those universities which retained Catholic faculties (e.g., Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum), Gregorian University, Catholic University of Louvain, Faculty of Canon Law \"S. Pio X\" in Venice). Other Catholic universities with ecclesiastical faculties in canon law were subsequently given the ability to grant the degree (e.g., The Catholic University of America, University of Saint Paul). The University of Santo Tomas in Manila, Philippines, has been awarding the degree since 1734.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1392439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392439", "title": "Driving while black", "text": "Driving while black\n\n\"Driving while black\", abbreviated as DWB, is a phrase in American English that refers to the racial profiling of African American drivers. The phrase implies that a motorist might be stopped by a police officer because of a racial bias and not because the driver has violated any traffic law.\n\n\"Driving while black\" is word play on the name of an actual crime, driving while intoxicated, often referred to as DWI. Some jurisdictions use the term \"driving under the influence\" (DUI) for the latter; others use \"driving under the influence of intoxicants\" (DUII).\n\nThe phrase \"Driving While Black\" has been used in both the public and private discourse relating to the Racial Profiling of Black motorists. The term rose to prominence during the 1990s, when it was brought to public knowledge that American police officers were intentionally targeting racial minorities to curb the trafficking of drugs. For example, New Jersey released state documents in 2000 which showed police training memos instructing officers to make racial judgments in order to identify \"Occupant Identifiers for a possible Drug Courier\" on the highway.\n\nThe phrase was magnified after the ruling of Whren v. United States (1996), when the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that police officers may stop any motor vehicle operator if any traffic violation has been observed.\n\nSubsequent media coverage of the phrase \"Driving While Black\" since the 1990s has been expansive and more common. The phrase is often used in anecdotal accounts of racial profiling of motor vehicle operators as well as statistical and legal analyses of racial profiling, a notable example being the case of Tolan v. Cotton.\n\nIn 2014 Portland lawyers Melvin Oden-Orr and Marianne Hyland created an app named \"Driving While Black\" in which users can record police and alert people when they are stopped by police on the road. It also supplies users with information on how to handle a traffic stop, including their legal rights and \"best practices\" for \"how to be safe.\" The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) released a similar app called \"Mobile Justice\" in which users can record and upload videos to the ACLU office.\n\nThe phrase DWB was amplified through social media by which African Americans can record police encounters and disseminate them to a large audience. The phrase was used in the media after the deaths of African Americans Sandra Bland (2015) and Philando Castile (2016), both of whom were stopped by police while driving.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union reported that in 2014, Florida-resident black drivers received nearly 22 percent of all seat belt citations even though they made up only 13.5 percent of that state's drivers. Seat belt compliance was 91.5 percent for white drivers versus 85.8 percent for black drivers, a difference too small to explain the different rate of ticketing between black and white drivers. The ACLU analysis showed that black drivers would have had over 14,000 fewer seat belt citations if they were ticketed proportionally to total drivers in Florida. The rate that black drivers are ticketed more often than white drivers is four times more in Escambia County, three times more in Palm Beach County and 2.8 times more in Orange County. In Tampa, black drivers received 575 seat belt citations versus 549 for white drivers even though black people make up only 23 percent of Tampa’s population.\n\nOn April 18, 2003, the Illinois State Senate passed a bill that mandates Illinois law enforcement to maintain racial statistics regarding traffic stops. The bill originally mandated the statistics-keeping to continue until 2007, but the bill was extended and traffic stop statistics will continue to be maintained until 2019. An ACLU analysis of the 2013 Illinois traffic stop report found that African Americans and Latinos are \"twice as likely\" to be pulled over by police even though whites were more likely to have been discovered with contraband in their car.\n\nIn \"Robert L. Wilkins, et al. v. Maryland State Police, et al.\" (1993), the ACLU sued the Maryland State Police for racial profiling of then defense attorney Robert L. Wilkins. Part of the settlement agreement between the parties held that the state of Maryland had to maintain racial statistics regarding its traffic stops, making Maryland the first to do so. The case started a \"national conversation on racial profiling\" and was seen as a large victory by the ACLU. Dr. Lamberth conducted a study again in the state of Maryland, once again finding evidence of racial discrimination in traffic stops, although the scope of his study was more limited.\n\nIn \"New Jersey v. Soto\" (1996), a case where Superior Court Justice Robert E. Francis consolidated 17 claims of racial profiling in traffic stops, Dr. John Lamberth of Temple University conducted a study to determine the level to which racial discrimination occurred on the highway in the state of New Jersey. Dr. Lamberth found that cars driven by African Americans accounted for about 42% of the total drivers pulled over out of a total 43,000 cars. However, cars operated for African Americans accounted only for 13.5% of the total cars on the road.\n\nNew Jersey later received public attention for its racial profiling on the highway in 1998 when police wounded three men during a traffic stop, all of whom were either Black or Hispanic, prompting then New Jersey Governor Christine Whitman to let a federal judge monitor the NJ police. As a result, thousands of documents were released to the public, displaying ample evidence that police were instructed to use race-based tactics to identify and stop possible drug couriers on the highway.\n\nA number of well-known African Americans have described experiences they characterize as of being racially profiled in their cars and some have related it to the phenomenon of DWB.\n\nIn his memoir, \"The Sky Is Not the Limit: Adventures of an Urban Astrophysicist\", prominent astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson recounts his many encounters with police on the road and their ambiguous reasons for pulling him over. After learning about other African American physicists who have had similar encounters, he writes, \"we were guilty not of DWI (driving while intoxicated), but of other violations none of us knew were on the books: DWB (driving while black), WWB (walking while black), and of course, JBB (just being black).\"\n\nSenator Tim Scott of South Carolina, the only African American Republican in the Senate, spoke on the Senate floor in 2016 about how he experienced racial profiling while driving in his car, adding \"I do not know many African-American men who do not have a very similar story to tell -- no matter their profession, no matter their income, no matter their disposition in life.\"\n\nIn 2015 comedian Chris Rock posted a series of different pictures on Twitter of himself in the driver's seat of his car while being pulled over by police, captioning one of his posts, \"Stopped by the cops again wish me luck.\" The posts came just a year after racial profiling in the U.S. had become a salient topic in the public following the deaths of Eric Garner and Michael Brown. CNN's Don Lemon stipulated that \"Chris Rock may be in the middle of a case of Driving While Black.\"\n\nIn 2016 tennis player Serena Williams made a public Facebook post in which she spoke about the fears she had for her nephew after he had driven her to her matches. Likely referring to the death of Sandra Bland, she spoke about her worries that her nephew might be harmed by a police officer after being pulled over. The NYTimes documented her post in an article titled \"‘I Won’t Be Silent’: Serena Williams on the Fear of Driving While Black.\"\n\nOther prominent African Americans who have recounted their personal experiences of racial profiling include but are not limited to Barack Obama, Johnnie Cochran, Will Smith, Gary Sheffield, and Eric Holder.\n\nThere have also been accusations of excessive force by police officers against black drivers. In this example, a police officer tries to explain a fear of blacks: Breaion King, an African-American elementary school teacher, was stopped for speeding in June 2015 in Austin, Texas. Officer Bryan Richter ordered King out of her car, and then threw her violently to the ground while arresting her in a parking lot. King felt the officer's reaction was because she was responding too slowly to the officer's orders. She was charged with resisting arrest as well as speeding. When another officer, Patrick Spradlin, was driving King to jail, he answered the question of \"why are so many people afraid of black people\". Spradlin's answer was because of \"violent tendencies\" adding \"I don’t blame\" white people for being afraid of blacks \"because of their appearance and whatnot, some of them are very intimidating\". Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo found the incident disturbing and put both officers involved under investigation. Prosecutors dropped the charge of resisting arrest, but King still had to pay a $165 fine for speeding.\n\nThe phrase cycling while black or biking while black refers to reportedly discriminatory treatment experienced by black cyclists at the hands of police officers. Such apparent discrimination has been the subject of media investigations in cities of the US such as Tampa, and Chicago, and the subject of lawsuits elsewhere.\n\nOn October 31, 2007,African-American economist Thomas Sowell devoted an editorial column to arguing against the common claim that police officers stop black drivers because of their race. He cites data from the book \"Are Cops Racist?\" by Heather MacDonald which proposes that a close analysis of data reveals that driving while black incidents are not a widespread problem. \n\nA 2012 study found that black drivers speed more often and more severely than white drivers, and concluded that \"citizen risk for specific police behavior is partially attributable to differential behavior prior to the encounter.\"\n\nIn a 2016 report, Vice News and a group from the Seton Hall Law School found that 70 percent of all police traffic stops in Bloomfield New Jersey were against black and Latino drivers even though 60 percent of the residents were white. According to Bloomfield's police director, Samuel A DeMaio, violations were 576 against Hispanics, 574 against blacks and 573 against whites from a recent period. In explaining why blacks and Hispanics had disproportionately more violations than whites, DeMaio said it was not racial profiling nor was it a case of blacks and Latinos being worse drivers. Rather it was because police were concentrated much more in \"high-crime\" areas, inhabited disproportionally by black and Latino residents, rather than in low-crime areas where whites largely reside. Vice News noticed a heavy police presence in the \"high-crime\" area where police vigorously pursue misdemeanor violations using tactics such as tailing drivers until they make a mistake, or searching a stopped vehicle for violations that may be unrelated to the reason for the police stop. The Seton Hall group concluded the police were effectively raising revenue for the municipality from people living in or driving through the \"high-crime\" area.\n\nPolice-Public Contact Surveys by the US Bureau of Justice Statistics found that white, black, and Hispanic drivers were stopped by police at similar rates in 2002, 2005, and 2008.\n\nIn a pretextual stop (also called an investigatory stop), officers pull over people citing a minor issue, then start asking unrelated questions. University of Kansas professor Charles Epp in a study found that black drivers were three times more likely than whites to be subjected to \"pretextual\" stops, and five times more likely to be searched during them. However, Epp found no difference in the frequency and treatment with which black and white drivers were stopped for serious violations like speeding. The bias, however, was significant for stops over minor issues such as a broken tail light, a missing front plate or a failure to signal a lane change.\n\nFor example, Philando Castile had 52 police stops in 14 years prior to the last fatal stop. Half his charges were dismissed, and none of his convictions were for dangerous offences. The pretext for the fatal stop was a broken tail light, but the real reason was that the police officer thought Castile resembled a robbery suspect.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled in \"Whren v. United States\" (1996) that any minor traffic violation is a legitimate justification for a stop, even if the real reason is some other crime-fighting objective. Police chiefs consider pretextual stops as an essential tactic and train their officers to conduct them; thus, the pretextual stop is not entirely a product of racism.\n\nAccording to an October 2015 article in the New York Times, many police departments use traffic stops as a tool to make contact with the community often in higher crime areas where more African-Americans live. Police hope that by being proactive, criminals will avoid the area. However, criminologists argue that such police stops alienate law-abiding residents and undermine their trust in the police. Traffic stops often lead to searches, arrests and convictions often for minor offences, with a police record that can lead to lifelong difficulties. This makes it difficult for police to obtain community cooperation in preventing and solving crimes. Criminologists doubt that performing more traffic stops leads to reduced crime. Ronald L. Davis, of the Justice Department’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services said: \"There is no evidence that just increasing stops reduces crime.\"\n\nPlays on the phrase (\"snowclones\") include \"walking while black\" for pedestrian offenses, \"learning while black\" for students in schools, \"shopping while black\" for browsing in stores, and \"eating while black\" for restaurants. Actor Danny Glover held a press conference in 1999 because cabdrivers in New York City weren't stopping for him; this was called \"hailing while black\". The phenomenon was investigated further on Michael Moore's television series \"TV Nation\".\n\nIn 2001, the American Civil Liberties Union convinced the United States Drug Enforcement Administration to repay $7,000 that it had seized from a black businessman in the Omaha, Nebraska airport on the false theory that it was drug money; the ACLU called it \"flying while black\".\n\nA pain specialist who treats sickle-cell disease patients at Manhattan's Beth Israel Medical Center reported that for many years doctors forced African American sickle-cell sufferers to endure pain because they assumed that blacks would become addicted to medication; \"Time\" magazine labeled this \"ailing while black.\"\n\nIn late 2013 the phrase \"seeking help while black\" or \"asking for help while black\" was coined in response to the deaths of Jonathan Farrell and Renisha McBride. In separate incidents, Farrell and McBride, both African-American, were shot and killed after they experienced a motor vehicle accident and went to the nearby home of a white stranger to ask for help.\n\nThe phrase is also used with other racial, ethnic and cultural (minority) groups. An example is \"flying while Muslim\", referring to the scrutiny that Arabs and Muslims face as airline passengers. Variants on \"$VERBing while female\" are also encountered, as are phrases like \"walking/traveling/$VERBing while trans\".\n\nFollowing the Boston Marathon bombing, the phrase \"Running while Arab\" has come up on social media (although the bombers in question were not Arab, but Chechen) in response to the interrogation of a Saudi student who, allegedly, acted suspiciously in the vicinity of the attacks. Said suspicious behavior consisted of running away from the area of the blast, something many other people did at the time. His house was searched, but he would later be cleared by law enforcement officials.\n\nIn May 2018, after a black Yale student, napping in her common room, was reported to police without justification by a white Yale student, a \"Washington Post\" reporter compiled a list of recent, separate incidents in which black people in North America appear to have been racially profiled while performing innocent activities, and proposed coining corresponding terms such as \"napping while black\", \"couponing while black\", \"waiting for a school bus while black\", and \"waiting at Starbucks while black\".\n\nIn September 2018, an incident in which a black actuary was shot and killed at his home in Dallas, Texas, by an off-duty police officer who claimed she mistook his home for her own, was described as a case of \"being at home while black.\"\n\nIn July 2009, a black Canadian named Joel Debellefeuille was pulled over (for the fourth time in several days) by Longueuil police because, according to documents, \"his Quebecois name did not match his skin tone.\" He refused to provide identification or car insurance documents when requested by the officer, and was accordingly fined by a municipal court. Debellefeuille filed complaints with the Human Rights Commission and the police, seeking $30,000 in damages. Crown prosecutor Valérie Cohen defending the police claimed that officers were in their rights to check the ownership of the car on a reasonable suspicion: \"the officers' actions were comparable to stopping a man for driving a car registered to a woman called 'Claudine'.\" In December 2012, his tickets were dismissed and the officers were suspended without pay. The judge wrote that the mentioned rationale for pulling over demonstrated flagrant ignorance of Quebec society. Debellefeuille's provincial human rights complaint could not be pursued because it had been filed too long a time after receiving the initial ticket.\n\nAkwasi Owusu-Bempah, an assistant professor of sociology at the University of Toronto, and Anthony Morgan, a civil rights lawyer, said that in the 1980s and 1990s the RCMP introduced Operation Pipeline, a drug interdiction strategy developed by the Los Angeles Police Department. However, the strategy came under criticism because it directed police officers to allow racial profiling to motivate police stops.\n\nA 2002 analysis by the Toronto Star found that police were more likely to stop black drivers than white drivers in Toronto without evidence of an offence. The Star looked at \"out-of-sight\" offences such as failing to update a driver’s licence or driving without insurance when no other offence was found. \"Out-of-sight\" offences could only be discovered if police had some other reason to stop the driver, thus suggesting racial profiling.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33407234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33407234", "title": "Foreign exchange regulation", "text": "Foreign exchange regulation\n\nForeign exchange regulation is a form of financial regulation specifically aimed at the Forex market which is decentralized and operates with no central exchange or clearing house. Due to its decentralised and global nature, foreign exchange market has been more prone to foreign exchange fraud and has been less regulated than other financial markets. \n\nHowever some countries do regulate forex brokers through governmental and independent supervisory bodies, for example the National Futures Association and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the US, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia and the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK. These bodies act as watchdogs for their respective markets and provide financial licenses to organizations that comply with local regulations.\n\nThe objective of regulation is to ensure fair and ethical business behaviour. In their turn all foreign exchange brokers, investment banks and signal sellers have to operate in compliance with the rules and standards laid down by the Forex regulators. Typically they must be registered and licensed in the country where their operations are based. Licensed brokers may be subject to recurrent audits, reviews and evaluations to check that they meet the industry standards. Foreign exchange brokers may have capital requirements which require them to hold a sufficient amount of funds to be able to execute and complete foreign exchange contracts concluded by their clients and also to return clients’ funds intact in case of bankruptcy.\n\nEach Forex regulator operates within its own jurisdiction and regulation and enforcement varies significantly from country to country. In the European Union a license from one member state covers the whole continent under the Mifid regulation and has resulted in regulatory arbitrage where companies select the EU country that imposes the least controls such as CySEC in Cyprus. Not all foreign exchange brokers are regulated and many will register in jurisdictions that impose low-regulatory environments such as tax havens and corporate havens that form part of offshore banking.\n\n"}
{"id": "43818915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43818915", "title": "Geneva Congress (1866)", "text": "Geneva Congress (1866)\n\nThe Geneva Congress of 1866 is the common name assigned to the 1st General Congress of the International Workingmen's Association, held in Geneva, Switzerland from September 3 to 8, 1866. The gathering was attended by 46 regular and 14 fraternal delegates from a total of five countries. The Geneva Congress is best remembered for its watershed decision to make universal establishment of the 8-hour working day a main goal of the International Socialist movement.\n\nThe International Workingmen's Association (IWA), commonly known as the First International, was an international association of trade unionist and socialist political activists which attempted to coordinate labor activities across national boundaries. The organization is remembered for the active participation of many pioneer leaders of the modern socialist and anarchist movements, including Karl Marx and Mikhail Bakunin. Membership in the IWA was numerically small, its funding inadequate, and its institutional life short — lasting a mere 8 years from its establishment in 1864 until its termination at the Hague Congress of 1872.\n\nEstablishment of the IWA was related to ongoing efforts to coordinate the activities of the trade union movements in Great Britain and France, a project begun in connection with the 1862 London World's Fair. Economic crisis had led the imperial French government to concede the right to French workers to elect a delegation of 750 to the London exhibition. While in London certain members of this delegation headed by Henri Tolain (1828-1897) established contact with British trade union leaders and opened the door for a formal meeting in London the following summer in support of the Polish uprising of 1863.\n\nThe 1st General Congress of the International Workingmen's Association was convened in Geneva, Switzerland on September 3, 1866. The gathering remained in session for six days, adjourning sine die on September 8 of that same month.\n\nThe convention was attended by 46 regular delegates, including 6 members of the General Council and representing 22 sections of the IWA. Of these, 20 represented 13 sections in Switzerland, 17 represented 4 sections in France, and 3 represented 4 sections in Germany. In addition, 14 fraternal delegates were in attendance, 11 of whom represented affiliated organizations, such as Swiss trade unions and educational societies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11157066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11157066", "title": "Government Accountability Project", "text": "Government Accountability Project\n\nThe Government Accountability Project (GAP) is a whistleblower protection and advocacy organization in the United States. A nonprofit public interest group, GAP litigates whistleblower cases, helps expose wrongdoing to the public, and actively promotes government and corporate accountability. Since its founding in 1977, GAP has helped more than 5,000 whistleblowers. GAP's leadership includes Louis Clark as Executive Director and CEO, Michael Termini as Chief of Staff, and Tom Devine as Legal Director.\n\nGAP's Board of Directors includes Getulio Carvalho, Richard Foos, Mark Niles, Richard Salzman, and Brad S. Weeks.\n\nThe organization's program areas include Corporate & Financial Accountability, Environmental Sustainability, Food Integrity, International Reform, National Security & Human Rights, and Public Health.\n\nIn 1992, the GAP represented Aldric Saucier, who lost his job and security clearance after he criticized the Strategic Defense Initiative.\n\nIn December 2012, Eric Ben-Artzi came forward publicly with evidence of multi-billion dollar securities violations at Deutsche Bank, the global financial services company. Ben-Artzi joined Deutsche Bank in 2010 as a quantitative risk analyst in the company's Market Risk Management department. He internally reported violations stemming from the bank's failure to report the value of its credit derivatives portfolio accurately. Specifically, he showed that the bank had inflated the value and underestimated the risk of a significant number of its trades. The bank retaliated in multiple ways and ultimately dismissed him. Ben-Artzi's story led to a series of front-page investigative pieces by the Financial Times. Reports showed that the Bank concealed up to $10 billion in losses and that German regulators had been briefed previously about the fraudulent activities but did nothing. Independent economists have backed Ben-Artzi's allegations. Eric Ben-Artzi is believed to be one of the first whistleblowers to make his concerns public while engaged in the SEC whistleblower process under the new Dodd-Frank regulations.\n\nRichard Bowen is a former vice president at Citigroup who tried to warn the Bank's senior management that the percentage of defective mortgages in the bank's portfolio had risen dramatically. Specifically, he was responsible for evaluating the quality of $90 billion of mortgages that Citigroup bought annually from Countrywide Financial and other lenders. On a 2011 episode of \"60 Minutes\", Bowen detailed how he began to raise concerns internally in June 2006 upon discovering that some 60% of mortgages (totaling $50 billion) sold by Citigroup to other investors did not meet the bank's own credit-worthiness standards. Further, Bowen witnessed the way in which Citigroup intentionally lowered its standards for accepting subprime mortgage pools. He testified in 2010 before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission about his whistleblowing.\n\nTom Drake is a former senior executive with the National Security Agency (NSA) who blew the whistle on multi-billion dollar programmatic fraud, waste, and abuse; the critical loss and suppression of 9/11 intelligence; and the Stellar Wind project's dragnet electronic mass surveillance and data-mining (conducted on a vast scale by the agency with the approval of the White House after 9/11). Drake argued that Stellar Wind violated the Constitution and American citizens' civil liberties while weakening national security. In April 2010, the Department of Justice charged him with 10 felonies (five under the Espionage Act) and he faced 35 years in prison. He was the first whistleblower charged with espionage by the Obama administration. All charges were eventually dropped when Drake pleaded to a misdemeanor count of exceeding the authorized use of a government computer with no fine or prison time. He is the 2011 recipient of the Ridenhour Truth-Telling Prize, and with Jesselyn Radack the co-recipient of the 2011 Sam Adams Associates for Integrity in Intelligence Award, and the 2012 Hugh M. Hefner First Amendment Award.\n\nDr. David Graham is an FDA scientist who discovered that the pain-reliever Vioxx increased the risk of cardiovascular problems and heart attacks. Despite threats from the FDA, Graham testified to the Senate about the dangers of the drug and succeeded in convincing the agency to require large warning labels on Vioxx packaging. Graham's data showed that tens of thousands of heart attacks could have been avoided if Vioxx had been substituted with other drugs.\n\nJohn Kiriakou is a former CIA officer who headed counterterrorism operations in Pakistan after 9/11, organized the team operation that captured suspected al-Qaeda operative Abu Zubaydah, and refused to be trained in torture interrogation tactics. In December 2007, Kiriakou gave an on-camera interview to ABC News in which he disclosed that Zubaydah was \"waterboarded\" and that \"waterboarding\" was torture – making him the first CIA officer to publicly label the action as torture. He helped expose the agency's torture program as policy rather than the actions of a few rogue agents. For these and other actions, in January 2011 Kiriakou became the sixth whistleblower charged with violating the Espionage Act by the Obama administration. Kiriakou pleaded guilty to violating the Intelligence Identities Protection Act in exchange for the government dropping all other charges against him. He is now the sole CIA officer to serve jail time for any action involving the federal government's torture program, despite being a whistleblower on it.\n\nIn 2003, Federal Air Marshal (FAM) Robert MacLean revealed a cost-cutting plan to cancel FAM coverage from long distance flights on the eve of a confirmed al-Qaeda suicidal hijacking plan. The plan never went into effect after Congress protested, based solely on his whistleblowing disclosure. TSA fired him three years later with a single charge of \"Unauthorized Disclosure of Sensitive Security Information\" – an unclassified \"hybrid secrecy\" label the TSA retroactively applied to the information that he disclosed.\n\nJim Schrier is a veteran food safety inspector for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) who was retaliated against after blowing the whistle on violations of humane handling regulations at an agency-regulated Tyson Foods slaughter plant in Iowa. Serving as an inspector for 29 years, Schrier reported clear humane handling violations involving market hogs to his supervisor, including inadequate stunning techniques and that conscious animals were being shackled and slaughtered.\n\nIn early 2013, whistleblower Edward Snowden began working with journalists to reveal widespread mass surveillance programs conducted by the National Security Agency. Articles based on Snowden's documents have revealed the existence of numerous global surveillance programs run by the NSA with the cooperation of telecommunication companies and other governments. In 2013, the existence of the NSA metadata program was revealed, along with Boundless Informant, the PRISM electronic data mining program, the XKeyscore analytical tool, the Tempora interception project, the MUSCULAR access point and the massive FASCIA database, which contains trillions of device-location records. In 2014, Britain's Joint Threat Research Intelligence Group was revealed, along with the Dishfire database, Squeaky Dolphin's real-time monitoring of social media networks, and the bulk collection of private webcam images via the Optic Nerve program. In June 2013, Snowden became the eighth whistleblower charged under the Espionage Act by the Obama administration.\n\nAs an officer at the U.N. peacekeeping operation in Kosovo in 2007, James Wasserstrom blocked an alleged conspiracy to pay a $500 million kickback to senior U.N. and Kosovo officials in connection with the construction of a new coal mine and power plant. The UN Dispute Tribunal (UNDT) found he was subjected to serious and protracted retaliation which he faced without protection from the U.N. Ethics Office – the unit established to investigate and act against such reprisals. Wasserstrom faced relentless negative personal and professional consequences of the retaliation, while none of those who engaged in it suffered consequences themselves. He has since lobbied Congress successfully to strengthen State Department oversight of UN whistleblower protections.\n\nIn early 2007, GAP was responsible for exposing fraud and abuse at the highest levels of the World Bank. In May 2007, World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz left the international organization in the wake of wide-ranging scandals based on multiple releases of documents over the previous two months by GAP.\n\nGAP released evidence or exposed information showing that: Wolfowitz's companion, Shaha Riza, received salary raises far in excess of those allowable under Bank rules; Riza received a questionable consulting position with a U.S. defense contractor in 2003 at Wolfowitz' direction that has resulted in State and Defense Department inquiries; Juan José Daboub, Bank Managing Director and Wolfowitz-hire, attempted to remove references and funding for \"family planning\" in Bank projects; Wolfowitz' office was responsible for weakening a \"climate change\" strategy document; Bank Senior Management delayed reporting to Bank staff that a fellow staffer had been seriously wounded in a shooting in Iraq; World Bank lending to Africa during Fiscal Year of 2007 has plummeted; and Wolfowitz was trying to broaden the Bank's portfolio in Iraq over Board opposition.\n\nGAP advocated in favor of the All Circuit Review Extension Act (H.R. 4197; 113th Congress), a bill that would extend for three years the authority for federal employees who appeal a judgment of the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to file their appeal at any federal court, instead of only the U.S. Court of Appeals. The pilot program was established in the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (WPEA) to last only two years. The Government Accountability Project (GAP) calls the program \"landmark\" and says that it was \"the WPEA's most significant structural reform.\" GAP argued that an extension of the pilot program was needed in order to ensure that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Congress had enough time to see the results of the program before deciding whether to make it permanent.\n\n"}
{"id": "38011184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38011184", "title": "Guamanian constitutional referendum, 1987", "text": "Guamanian constitutional referendum, 1987\n\nA referendum on a new constitution was held in Guam on 8 August 1987. Instead of passing the whole constitution as a unit, voters chose to approve each chapter of the document individually. With a low turnout of 39%, all chapters were approved except for Chapter I on relations with the United States and Chapter VII on Chamorro relations and immigration. Modified versions of these rejected chapters would be accepted in a referendum later the same year.\n\nA referendum on chapters of a constitution was held in Guam on 7 November 1987. Chapter I (on relations with the United States) and Chapter VII (on Chamorro relations and immigration) had been rejected in a referendum in August, and the Constitutional Commission resubmitted modified versions. Both modified versions passed on the back of a much higher turnout of 58%.\n"}
{"id": "48407833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48407833", "title": "Henry v. A.B. Dick Co.", "text": "Henry v. A.B. Dick Co.\n\nHenry v. A.B. Dick Co., 224 U.S. 1 (1912), was a 1912 decision of the United States Supreme Court that upheld patent licensing restrictions such as tie-ins on the basis of the so-called inherency doctrine—the theory that it was the inherent right of a patent owner, because he could lawfully refuse to license his patent at all, to exercise the \"lesser\" right to license it on any terms and conditions he chose. In 1917, the Supreme Court overruled the \"A.B. Dick\" case in \"Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co.\",\n\nA.B. Dick owned a patent on a mimeograph machine, which was designed to print multiple paper copies of papers by exuding ink through apertures in a stencil onto paper sheets. Dick sold one of the patented machines to Miss Christina B. Skou. A plate had been fastened to the machine, reading that the machine was \"sold by the A.B. Dick Company with the license restriction that it may be used only with the stencil, paper, ink, and other supplies made by A. B. Dick.\" Sidney Henry then sold to Miss Skou a can of ink suitable for use upon the mimeograph machine, with knowledge of the license agreement, and with the expectation that she would use the ink with the machine.\n\nA.B. Dick then sued Henry in the circuit court for the Southern District of New York, which ruled in favor of Dick. The Second Circuit certified to the Supreme Court the question whether the conduct constituted patent infringement.\n\nThe Court ruled (4-3) that Henry's conduct was contributory infringement, in a decision written by Justice Lurton, joined by Justices McKenna, Holmes, and Van Devanter. Chief Justice Edward White, joined by Justices Hughes and Lamar, dissented. (Two justices were unavailable: Justice Harlan had died and Justice Day was absent.). \n\nJustice Lurton noted preliminarily that Henry could not be guilty of contributory infringement unless Skou was guilty of direct infringement in using Henry's ink. \"It is not denied that she accepted the machine with notice of the conditions under which the patentee consented to its use. Nor is it denied that thereby she agreed not to use the machine otherwise.\" The only issue was whether breach of the agreement to use only Dick's ink was patent infringement. Henry argued that the exhaustion doctrine prevented such a post-sale restriction from being enforceable. \"He cannot make a sale with the condition attached that the article shall be used or disposed of in a certain manner, leaving the title, however, in the purchaser in case of a breach of the condition.\"\n\nThe majority said that principle applied only to unconditional sales. This machine was sold subject to the condition that it must be used only with Dick's ink. \"But if the right of use be confined by specific restriction, the use not permitted is necessarily reserved to the patentee. \nIf that reserved control of use of the machine be violated, the patent is thereby invaded. This right to sever ownership and use is deducible from the nature of a patent monopoly, and is recognized in the cases.\"\n\nThe Court dismissed Henry's arguments that holding the licensing restrictions permissible would lead to great harm to the public:\n\nFor the purpose of testing the consequence of a ruling which will support the lawfulness of a sale of a patented machine for use only its connection with supplies necessary for its operation, bought from the patentee, many fanciful suggestions of conditions which might be imposed by a patentee have been pressed upon us. Thus, it is said that a patentee of a coffee pot might sell on condition that it be used only with coffee bought from him, or, if the article be a circular saw, that it might be sold on condition that it be used only in sawing logs procured from him. These and other illustrations are used to indicate that this method of marketing a patented article may be carried to such an extent as to inconvenience the public and involve innocent people in unwitting infringements.<br><br>\nBut these illustrations all fail of their purpose, because the public is always free to take or refuse the patented article on the terms imposed. If they be too onerous or not in keeping with the benefits, the patented article will not find a market.\n\nThe majority capped this argument by pointing out that under U.S. law the inventor may decline to exploit his patented invention and yet he can refuse to let others use it during the life of the patent, because that is his inherent right under our patent system:\n\n\"This larger right embraces the lesser of permitting others to use upon such terms as the patentee chooses to prescribe.\" It must not be forgotten that we are dealing with a constitutional and statutory monopoly.\n. . . And if it be that the ingenuity of patentees in devising ways in which to reap the benefit of their discoveries requires to be restrained, Congress alone has the power to determine what restraints shall be imposed. As the law now stands, it contains none, and the duty which rests upon this and upon every other court is to expound the law as it is written. Arguments based upon suggestions of public policy not recognized in the patent laws are not relevant. The field to which we are invited by such arguments is legislative, not judicial.\n\nChief Justice White expressed his \"forebodings as to the evil consequences to result from the application of the construction now given to the patent statute\" if Congress failed \"to amend the statute so as to avoid such evils.\" He strongly objected to the doctrine \"that a patentee, in selling the machine covered by his patent, has power by contract to extend the patent so as to cause it to embrace things which it does not include; in other words, to exercise legislative power of a far-reaching and dangerous character. This occurs, he said, because \"the ruling now made in effect is that the patentee has the power, by contract, to extend his patent rights so as to bring within the claims of his patent things which are not embraced therein, thus virtually legislating by causing the patent laws to cover subjects to which, without the exercise of the right of contract, they could not reach.\" \n\nWhite then listed a catalog of dangerous results of the ruling:\n\n\nWhite explained that these evils were not imaginary but were already becoming prevalent, as a result of the widespread following that had attached to the Sixth Circuit's decision in the \"Button-Fastener\" case:\nThe illustrations might be multiplied indefinitely. That they are not imaginary is now a matter of common knowledge, for, as the result of a case the \"Button-Fastener\" case decided some years ago by one of the circuit courts of appeal, which has been followed by cases in other circuit courts of appeal, to which reference will hereafter be made, what prior to the first of those decisions on a sale of a patented article was designated a condition of sale, governed by the general principles of law, has come in practice to be denominated a license restriction. ... As the transformation has come about in practice since the decisions in question, the conclusion is that it is attributable as an effect caused by the doctrine of those cases. And, as I have previously stated, it is a matter of common knowledge that the change has been frequently resorted to for the purpose of bringing numerous articles of common use within the monopoly of a patent when otherwise they would not have been embraced therein, thereby tending to subject the whole of society to a widespread and irksome monopolistic control.\n\nWhite argued that this legal development was contrary to the exhaustion doctrine on which many earlier Supreme Court cases had been based, including \"Adams v. Burke\". White maintained that the \"Button-Fastener\" case and the court of appeals decisions following it were all wrongly decided and should be overruled. \"[T]he \"Button-Fastener\" case and the confusion which has followed the application of the ruling made in that case was but the consequence of failing to observe the difference between the rights of a patentee which were protected by the patent and those which arose from contract, and therefore were subject alone to the general law.\"\n\nThe American Bar Ass'n's \"Intellectual Property Handbook\" asserts that the \"A.B. Dick\" decision \"spurred congressional action\" to pass section 3 of the Clayton Act in 1914, which prohibited tie-ins of patented or unpatented products when the effect was to substantially lessen competition in a market.\n\nTwo Supreme Court decisions failed to follow or distinguish \"A.B. Dick\" in 1912 and 1913 but did not overrule it.\n\nThe \"A.B., Dick\" case was overruled in 1917 in \"Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co.\", The \"A.B. Dick\" case's reasoning that a sale on condition (i.e., the product was sold subject to a restriction on its use) was not within the exhaustion doctrine was revived in the Federal Circuit in \"Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc.\" That case apparently was overruled \"sub silentio\" in \"Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\" However, an \"en banc\" decision of the Federal Circuit refused to overrule \"Mallinckrodt\" and instead reaffirmed it. A certiorari petition is now pending in that case.\n\nIn 1917, when the \"Motion Picture Patents\" case overruled \"A.B., Dick\" and the \"Button-Fastener\" case, a commentator remarked:\n\nIt by no means follows that because a patentee may withhold the use of the patented article entirely he may license its use with any conditions he chooses. It may be better that the public should not enjoy the article at all than that it should be used under restrictions obnoxious to public policy.\n\nIn 2011, Professor Vincent Chiapetta explained this point in greater detail. He concluded that the inherency doctrine ignores the issue of whether the benefits of increased usage of the patented invention under a restrictive license exceed the harms resulting from the restriction. A proper legal analysis, Chiapetta argues, must balance benefits against harms.\n\nThe \"A.B. Dick\" case has been called \"the high-water mark of judicial deference toward patentees.\"\n"}
{"id": "15857427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15857427", "title": "Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre", "text": "Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre\n\nThe Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre (HKIAC) is an institution based in Hong Kong, providing alternative dispute resolution services from administered and ad hoc arbitration to mediation, adjudication and domain name dispute resolution. It was founded in 1985.\n\nThe Centre was established in 1985 to promote the use of arbitration and other forms of alternative dispute resolution services in Asia. Formed as a non-profit making company limited by guarantee under Hong Kong law, HKIAC was originally funded with assistance from the business community and the Hong Kong Government. Today, the Centre is independent of both the business community and the Government, and operates with its own budget and funds. It operates under a Council composed of businesses and professionals of several nationalities. Administration of arbitration is conducted by the Secretariat through the Centre's Secretary-General. HKIAC also has an International Advisory Board to provide guidance and advice to HKIAC on a policy level.\n\nHKIAC maintains one of the largest caseloads in the Asia-Pacific region, having handled over 9,000 cases since 1985. In 2016, HKIAC received a total of 460 new cases, out of which 262 were arbitrations, 183 were domain name disputes and 15 were mediations. Within the 262 arbitration cases, 94 were fully administered by HKIAC, featuring parties from 39 jurisidictions. 87.2% of new administered arbitrations were international cases. HKIAC|website=hkiac.org|access-date=2016-11-10}}</ref>\n"}
{"id": "1152474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1152474", "title": "Imminent lawless action", "text": "Imminent lawless action\n\n\"Imminent lawless action\" is a standard currently used that was established by the United States Supreme Court in \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\" (1969), for defining the limits of freedom of speech. \"Brandenburg\" clarified what constituted a \"clear and present danger\", the standard established by \"Schenck v. United States\" (1919), and overruled \"Whitney v. California\" (1927), which had held that speech that merely advocated violence could be made illegal. Under the imminent lawless action test, speech is not protected by the First Amendment if the speaker intends to incite a violation of the law that is both imminent and likely. While the precise meaning of \"imminent\" may be ambiguous in some cases, the court provided later clarification in \"Hess v. Indiana\" (1973) in which the court found that Hess's words did not fall outside the limits of protected speech, in part, because his speech \"amounted to nothing more than advocacy of illegal action at some indefinite future time,\" and therefore did not meet the imminence requirement.\n\nThe two legal prongs that constitute incitement of imminent lawless action is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52437669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52437669", "title": "Impeachment of Park Geun-hye", "text": "Impeachment of Park Geun-hye\n\nThe impeachment of Park Geun-hye, President of South Korea, was the culmination of a political scandal involving interventions to the presidency from her aide. The impeachment vote took place on 9 December 2016, with 234 members of the 300-member National Assembly voting in favour of the impeachment and temporary suspension of Park Geun-hye's presidential powers and duties. Thus, Hwang Kyo-ahn, then Prime Minister of South Korea, became Acting President while the Constitutional Court of Korea was due to determine whether to accept the impeachment. The court upheld the impeachment in a unanimous 8–0 decision on 10 March 2017, removing Park from office. A fresh election was held on 9 May 2017, electing Moon Jae-in, former leader of the Democratic Party, as the next President of South Korea. \n\nPark was formally sentenced to 24 years in prison on April 6, 2018 after being found guilty of abuse of power and coercion.\n\nThe procedure for impeachment is set out in the 10th Constitution of South Korea in 1987. And according to Article 65 Clause 1, if the President, Prime Minister, or other state council members violate the Constitution or other laws of official duty, the National Assembly can impeach them.\n\nClause 2 states the impeachment bill must be proposed by one third, and approved by the majority of members of the National Assembly for passage. In the case of the President, the motion must be proposed by a majority and approved by two thirds or more of the total members of the National Assembly, meaning that 200 of 300 members of the parliament must approve the bill. This article also states that any person against whom a motion for impeachment has been passed shall be suspended from exercising his/her power until the impeachment has been adjudicated, and a decision on impeachment shall not extend further than removal from public office. However, impeachment shall not exempt the person impeached from civil or criminal liability for such violations.\n\nBy the Constitutional Court Act of 1988, the Constitutional Court must make a final decision within 180 days after it receives any case for adjudication, including impeachment cases. If the respondent has already left office before the pronouncement of the decision, the case is dismissed.\n\nThe last president to be subject to impeachment was Roh Moo-hyun, who was impeached by parliament in 2004 and was suspended from duties for two months. In that case, the Constitutional Court of Korea acquitted Roh and restored him to power, with the South Korean public by and large in support of Roh.\n\nRevelations emerged in late October 2016, that President Park Geun-hye's aide, Choi Soon-sil, who did not have an official position in the government, had used her position to seek donations of money from several business conglomerates (known as \"chaebol\"), including Samsung, Hyundai, SK Group and Lotte, to two foundations she controlled. \nThese revelations were first revealed when Park's unofficial clothier Ko Young-tae revealed evidence to the media of the nature of Park and Choi's relationship which suggested Choi's access to Park's personal and work life, and Choi was said to have directly influenced, and interfered with the policies of the Park government and editing Park's presidential speeches. Media investigations also reported that Choi and President Park's senior staff members, including both Ahn Jong-bum and Jeong Ho-sung, have allegedly used their influence to extort ₩77.4 billion($60 million) from Korean chaebols—family-owned large business conglomerates—and set up two culture- and sports-related foundations, Mir and K-sports foundations.\n\nOn 25 October 2016, Park apologized to the nation in a televised address from the Blue House for giving Choi access to draft speeches during the first months of her presidency. Protests began on 26 October calling on President Park's resignation. Three days later, she dismissed her top aides including chief of staff Kim Ki-choon and two members of the cabinet and attempted to replace prime minister Hwang Kyo-ahn with Kim Byong-joon, former aide to former president Roh Moo-hyun, but this was rejected by the National Assembly.\n\nOn 31 October, Choi Soon-sil was arrested by prosecutors, having concluded that there was enough evidence for indictment. She was formally charged with abuse of power and fraud on November 20.\n\nPark made a second apology on November 4, pledging to take responsibility if she was found guilty, and a third apology on 29 November, calling for the National Assembly to decide the manner of her departure, but this was rejected by the opposition-controlled legislature. Protests across South Korea began on 26 October with Park's approval rating dropping to 4%, and according to an opinion poll, as of 9 December 78% of South Koreans supported her impeachment. President Park appointed Park Young-soo, former head of the Seoul High Prosecutors' Office, as a special prosecutor to investigate the allegations on 30 November. \n\nThe response to the \"Sewol\" ferry sinking accident that occurred on 16 April 2014 also contributed to Park's declining presidential ratings.\n\nOn 3 December, 2016, at 4:10 am, Woo Sang-ho of the Democratic Party, Park Jie-won of the People's Party, and Roh Hoe-chan of the Justice Party moved the \"President (Park Geun-hye) impeachment proposal\" in the National Assembly on behalf of 171 members of their respective parties and other independent representatives, on the grounds that Geun-hye had violated the Constitution and the law. Park's Saenuri Party initially preferred Park to voluntarily step down in late April, but with mounting protests, the ruling party became divided on whether Park should step down voluntarily or be impeached. On 4 December, members of Saenuri's \"non-mainstream\" factions declared that they would vote in favor of Park's impeachment.\n\nThe 300-member National Assembly was scheduled to vote on an impeachment bill on 9 December, at the end of the legislative session. As impeachment requires a two-thirds supermajority, at least 200 members would have to vote to impeach, in which case Park would be impeached and immediately suspended from her office. There were up to 172 opposition and independent lawmakers, which meant at least 28 of the 128 MPs from the ruling Saenuri party needed to cross the floor and join the opposition in supporting the impeachment measure for the vote to pass.\n\nOn 8 December, the South Korean National Assembly announced that the vote on the motion to impeach would take place on 9 December, at 3:00 pm local time. The opposition parties pledged to resign their seats in the National Assembly if the impeachment motion failed to pass. On 9 December, the National Assembly approved the impeachment motion by a vote of 234 in favor and 56 against in a secret ballot. The Speaker of the National Assembly (who happens to be unaffiliated with any party) abstained from the vote. Two other MPs abstained from voting and seven votes were declared invalid.\n\nAs a result of the motion's passage, President Park's powers and duties were suspended for up to 180 days while the Constitutional Court of Korea considered the validity of the impeachment motion. It was necessary for six of the nine judges on that court to agree with the impeachment for the removal to take effect.\n\nPresident Park held a final cabinet meeting acknowledging the impeachment motion and apologised for causing uncertainty, before Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn assumed presidential powers and duties at 19:30 Korean Standard Time, on an interim basis.\n\nProtesters congregated outside the National Assembly hall where the voting session was held. Some 40 family members of the victims of the sinking of MV \"Sewol\" looked on as lawmakers cast their secret ballots. Citizens who have been rallying in massive numbers against Park rejoiced at the news, while Park's supporters called the parliamentary impeachment a \"witch-hunt\" without concrete evidence of Park's wrongdoings.\n\nOn 10 December, hundreds of thousands gathered for a demonstration in celebration of the events.\n\nOn 1 January 2017, Park appeared in public for the first time since the impeachment before a select group of reporters at the Blue House, saying she denied any allegations of the scandal and wrongdoings.\n\nThe South Korean Constitutional Court had up to 180 days (until early June 2017) to decide on the issue. It held public hearings to hear from both sides on whether the National Assembly had followed due process and the impeachment was justified.\n\nThe Constitutional Court has been considered generally conservative, as all nine judges of the Constitutional Court were appointed during the conservative Lee Myung-bak and Park Geun-hye administrations. The Constitutional Court was to start the Preparatory Hearing on 22 December, with initial views from both sides.\n\nThe first trial focused on the whereabouts of Park Geun-hye seven hours after the Sewol ferry sinking. The administration's delayed response to the disaster led to widespread criticism in South Korea and forced Park to deny various rumors. Then, on 23 December the Justice Ministry of South Korea said that it has submitted its views on the recent parliamentary vote to impeach President Park Geun-hye to the Constitutional Court, adding that the process has met all the necessary legal requirements.\n\nThe Constitutional Court was to officially start the main hearings on Tuesday, 3 January 2017, and Park would not be required to appear for questioning. Park was absent at the first open hearing and the first session was closed after just nine minutes. The hearings were rescheduled to start on 5 January 2017. The trial heard arguments and evidence until 27 February.\n\nOn 6 March, special prosecutor Park Young-soo announced the results of his probe into the Choi and Park allegations, finding evidence of collusion between Park and Choi to solicit bribes from Samsung Group and blacklisting more than 9,000 artists, authors and movie industry professionals from government assistance that constituted an abuse of power. This opened the possibility of Park's indictment if the Constitutional Court upheld the National Assembly's impeachment motion.\n\nOn 10 March 2017, 11.00 am KST, the Constitutional Court upheld the impeachment in a unanimous 8–0 decision read out by Acting Chief Justice Lee Jung mi which formally ended Park's presidency, the first time that a sitting president was removed from the office since the creation of the Sixth Republic of South Korea after the country's democratization in 1987. As supporters and opponents of Park gathered outside the building for the verdict, the ensuing clashes between her supporters and police resulted in injuries, three of them later died.\n\nAs a result of impeachment, Park was stripped of her post-presidential benefits such as retirement pension, free medical services, state funding for her post-retirement office, personal assistants and a chauffeur and right to burial at the Seoul National Cemetery after death. However, she is entitled to retain security protection under the Presidential Security Act. \n\nPark left the Blue House on the evening of 11 March and was welcomed to her home by supporters. She was arrested and placed into custody after indictment by prosecutors on charges of bribery, abuse of power, coercion, and leaking government secrets on 31 March. \n\nAfter Park's removal from office, Prime Minister Hwang remained as Acting President until a new presidential election took place on 9 May 2017 in which Moon Jae-in was elected as the 12th president of South Korea.\n"}
{"id": "44246632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44246632", "title": "Independent High Authority for Elections", "text": "Independent High Authority for Elections\n\nThe Independent High Authority for Elections ( ', or ISIE ) is a government agency in charge of organizing and supervising elections and referendums in Tunisia.\n"}
{"id": "19627754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19627754", "title": "International City/County Management Association", "text": "International City/County Management Association\n\nICMA (International City/County Management Association) (originally International City Managers' Association) is an association representing professionals in local government management. It is based in Washington, D.C., USA.\n\nFounded in 1914 as the International City Managers Association, ICMA provides education and networking opportunities for its members, and offers the Credentialed Manager program to offer professional credentialing to city and county executive managers. It also conducts research, provides technical assistance and training, and promotes professional local government management.\n\nThe ICMA Voluntary Credentialing Program recognizes professional local government managers qualified by a combination of education and experience, adherence to high standards of integrity, and an assessed commitment to lifelong learning and professional development. Managers are recognized by ICMA through a peer review credentialing process, and this self-directed program offers an opportunity for interested ICMA members to quantify the unique expertise they bring to their communities. The program also assists ICMA members in focusing and reflecting upon their lifelong professional development experience. Members who participate in the program may earn the designation of ICMA Credentialed Manager granted by the ICMA Executive Board.\n\nThe ICMA is considered part of the 'Big Seven', a group of organisations that represent local and state government in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "6809720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6809720", "title": "JECS", "text": "JECS\n\nJECS Corporation ( formerly Japan Electrical Control Systems Co Ltd) is an automotive components company headquartered in Isesaki, Gunma, Japan and a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi. Its principal products are electronic control units, software, semiconductors, mechatronics, resin molding, inspection technology and material analysis.\nJECS was formed in June 1973. It was a joint venture between Robert Bosch GmbH, Nissan Motor Co. and Diesel Kiki Co., Ltd.. It enabled Nissan to use Bosch's engine control technology, and gave Bosch access to the Japanese market. JECS later expanded to manufacture many other automotive parts besides EFI systems.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUnisia JECS sponsored the Hasemi Motorsport team in JTCC and JGTC from 1991 until 2002. The Unisia JECS Skylines (GT500) and Silvias (GT300) also featured in video games & toys.\n\n16-bit ECUs from JECS were produced for the 1993+ Nissan 300ZX.\n\nBosch first produced the Jetronic EFI system in 1967. K-Jetronic & L-Jetronic followed from around 1973 which is when Nissan became involved.\n\nEarly JECS systems were L-Jetronic, with Bosch moving vane airflow meters. These systems used a mixture of German & Japanese parts. The electronics were Japanese, the sensors often German, the fuel pumps/regulators made under license to Bosch by DENSO.\n\nBy the mid-1980s, JECS were using LH-Jetronic, and the new Bosch hotwire mass airflow meter. The early JECS LH-Jetronic systems were based on a Motorola 6800 architecture, using many Hitachi components. The earliest hotwire meters were still from Germany, but by the end of the 1980s all of the system components (pumps, sensors, injectors, ECU) were being made in Japan.\n"}
{"id": "55247007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55247007", "title": "Jan Broekman", "text": "Jan Broekman\n\nJan Maurits Broekman (born 1931 in Voorburg) is a Dutch-born philosopher, legal scientist, and social scientist. He worked three decades at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven and continues to reside in Belgium. In 1971 he published a work on structuralism and in 1979 law and anthropology, asserting that the foundations of law are concealed in a specific image of a person. \n\nBroekman, born February 16, 1931 in Voorburg, Netherlands, lives since 1968 in Belgium. He studied Sociology and Law at the Rijksuniversiteit Leiden and Philosophy and Psychiatry at the Georg-August-Universität in Göttingen, Germany. His PhD promotion was in 1961 when he defended a thesis \"Faktisches und Transzendentales Ego bei Edmund Husserl\" written under the direction of Hermann Wein. That book was published 1963 by Martinus Nijhoff, The Hague, in the Series \"Phaenomenologica\" Vol. 12 and entitled \"Phänomenologie und Egologie\".\n\nFrom 1961 until 1966 Broekman was Vice Director of the Haagse Sociale Academie, where he taught Philosophy and Social Sciences. From 1966 until 1968 he was Associate Professor Aesthetics and Contemporary Philosophy at the University of Amsterdam. In those years he also taught aesthetics and philosophy at the Academies for Architecture in Amsterdam and Rotterdam, where he participated in discussions with well-known architects on the foundations of their profession. From 1968 until his retirement in 1996 he was Ordinary Professor Contemporary Philosophy at the Institute of Philosophy, University of Leuven and Ordinary Professor Philosophy and Theory of Law at the Faculty of Law of the KU Leuven in Belgium. In 1971 he established in the Law Faculty the \"Instituut voor Grondslagenonderzoek van het Recht\" [Institute for Research into the Foundations of Law]. From 1988 to 1994 he was dean and respectively pro-dean of the Law Faculty.\nInspired by the series \"Kolleg Philosophie\" of Karl Alber Verlag, Freiburg i. Br., Germany, Broekman published 1971 his \"Strukturalismus. Moskau-Prag-Paris\", edited 1974 in English in the \"Synthese Library\", Vol. 65 by Reidel Publishing Cie. He was Visiting Professor at the University of Cape Town in South Africa in 1972, lecturing on Marxism and Structuralism and presented his \"Structuralism in Sociology : Its Theory And Application\" to \"The Association For Sociology in Southern Africa\" in Durban, SA. From 1977 on he edited at the Alber Verlag, Germany, the encyclopedic series \"Kolleg Rechtstheorie\" he drafted with Meinolf Wewel. In that series he published in 1979 his \"Recht und Anthropologie\" [Law and Anthropology], in which the image of man was unveiled as a major constitutive factor in law. From here, new determinations pertaining to the constitution of law, to legal theory as well as to legal practice became feasible. The book was foundational for research into the field of legal semiotics, which Broekman unfolded in the second decade of the 21st century.\n\nFrom 1975 until 1979 Broekman directed with Hans-Georg Gadamer, Ante Pažanin and Bernard Waldenfels the Project and Courses \"Phänomenologie und Marxismus\" at the Inter-University Center in Dubrovnik (Croatia). Four Volumes resulted from its conferences; they were published by Suhrkamp Verlag in German, two volumes were published in Japanese (1982) and one in English (1984) (See §3).\n\nParallel to his legal research, Broekman was Professor Philosophy of Medicine and Medical Ethics from 1980 to 1995 at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, where he initiated lectures on the philosophy of medicine, established a research section \"Medical Philosophy\" and directed numerous doctoral dissertations on medicine and medical philosophy. He was president of the Dutch \"Stichting Psychiatrie en Filosofie\" from 1985 to 1995. Two Dutch publications resulted from those activities. In 1996, at the occasion of his retirement, his book “Intertwinements of Law and Medicine” was published. It reported about his parallel activities between Law and Medicine and underlined congruencies of the legal and the medical discourse in modern society.\n\nIn 1982 was Broekman invited to be a founding member of “The Asociación Argentina de Filosofía del Derecho” in La Plata (Argentina). Since those days, he lectured regularly at many Universities and Law Schools in Argentina, Chili and Colombia. In the years 1985 – 2006 he published essays on law and bioethics, on illness and citizenship, on transsexuality, euthanasia and related issues in the Journal \"Jurisprudencia Argentina\" and other magazines. The 1998 publication \"Bioetica con Rasgos Juridicos\" (see §3) focuses upon the close ties between law, medicine and bioethics while providing insight in the relevant Latin-American discussions.\n\nSince his retirement in 1996, Broekman's scientific work unfolds almost exclusively in English language. He became a visiting professor of law at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign in 1998 until 2005 and lectured in that period on philosophy of law, law and bioethics as well as on EU Legal Institutions. In 1998/1999 he wrote his book on the philosophy of EU Law in Urbana-Champaign. In those years he also founded with Dr M. H. Foox (New York) the \"IIS Institute\" for the advancement of digital education programs and published five studies on that theme. His major focus was on how digital programs change the concept of interactivity, on how the virtual plays a different role in the world of electronic communication and in what ways the unfolding of a human self will touch new dimensions.\n\nIn 2006 Broekman was appointed Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law at the Pennsylvania State University, Dickinson School of Law. He lectured on EULaw as well as on the Principles of Civil Law and initiated the \"Roberta Kevelson Seminar on Law and Semiotics\" which he directed until 2013. He published with William A. Pencak two special issues of the \"International Journal for the Semiotics of Law\" dedicated to those Seminars and the student experiences with Legal Semiotics. His Series on “The Semiotics of Law in Legal Education”, published by Springer in 2011, comprises in 2017 five volumes. \n\nBroekman’s interest in the ‘Law and Language’–theme has been deepened during his exploration of legal semiotics. Connections between “Significs” in the Netherlands, the UK, Germany and Switzerland in the beginning of the 20th century and “Semiotics” of Law in the second half of that century in the US, seem to have more importance for a philosophy of language connected with legal theory than ever was noticed. A volume of the series “SpringerBriefs in Law” on Roberta Kevelson that also provides a new, corrected and completed Kevelson bibliography will be published 2018.\n\nTwo festschrifts were published at the occasion of Broekman's retirement in 1996, one in English and one in Dutch: \n\n\n\nBroekman published more than 30 books and 500 scientific articles and essays on law, legal theory, philosophy of medicine and medical ethics, contemporary philosophy, semiotics, education, modern culture and politics in nine languages. Among those the following books:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "533968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533968", "title": "Joint committee", "text": "Joint committee\n\nA joint committee is a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature. In other contexts, it refers to a committee with members from more than one organization.\n\nA joint committee (\"Gemeinsamer Ausschuss\") comprises members of both Bundestag (two thirds) and Bundesrat (one third). It exists to ensure a working legislature during a state of defense.\n\nA Joint Committee of the Irish Oireachtas (parliament) comprises members of both Dáil Éireann (the lower house) and Seanad Éireann (the upper house).\n\nA bicameral conference committee is formed for each bill where the Senate and the House of Representatives have conflicting versions. The committee has the same number of members from each chamber. Once passed, the chambers then have to approve the version passed by the bicameral conference committee in order for it to be sent for the president's signature.\n\nIf Congress is short on time, a chamber may approve the other chamber's version instead.\n\nA joint committee of the Parliament of the United Kingdom is a select committee consisting of members of both the House of Commons and the House of Lords.\n\nIn the UK the term \"joint committee\" can also refer to a committee of local authorities established under the provisions of Local Government Act 1972.\n\nA joint committee of the United States Congress is a congressional committee consisting of both Senate and House members and having jurisdiction over matters of joint interest. An example of a joint committee is the Joint Committee on the Library. Most joint committees are permanent (as with the Library Committee) but temporary joint committees have been created to address specific issues (such as the Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War during the American Civil War).\n\n four joint committees: the Economic, Library, Printing, and Taxation committees.\n\nIn addition to the joint committees, Congress also has standing and select/special committees.\n\n"}
{"id": "2491035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491035", "title": "Lawyers in Poland", "text": "Lawyers in Poland\n\nIn Poland any person holding a Magister's degree in law is called \"jurist\" or \"lawyer\" (). The licensed legal professions are as follows:\n\nSome legal professions may also be performed by graduates in other specific disciplines, such as economics or engineering. They require an appropriate admission examination to be passed, as such jurists are authorised to represent persons before courts in matters related to their profession. Such occupations include inter alia: \n\nThe division \"adwokat\" / \"radca prawny\" was created by a 1959 law which forbade advocates from advising socialised economy units (primarily state enterprises, and cooperatives, which were the dominant form of economic activity in the People's Republic of Poland), and introduced the new profession of \"radca prawny\" for that purpose.\n\n1. Advocates and legal advisors have their own independent bar associations (both are members of CCBE - The Council of Bars and Law Societies of Europe); membership is obligatory for those willing to practice the respective profession:\nCurrently, admission to the Polish Bar Council is open to the members of the National Chamber of Legal Advisors, and vice versa. Lawyers can be members of both bar associations at the same time, however they cannot practice both professions concurrently.\n\n2. Currently, the position and rights of advocates and legal advisors are identical in almost all matters, leading to public discussion on the unification of the two professions. Legal regulations regarding the two professions slightly differ:\n\n3. The two bar associations have their own rules and ethical codes according to which:\n\nThere are no bar associations for judges and public prosecutors - the Ministry of Justice is in charge of the administration of the professions (judges are appointed by the President). Advocates, legal advisors, notaries, bailiffs, patent attorneys, and tax advisors do have their bar associations.\n\nThere are several ways of admission to the bar. As to advocates and legal advisors, the following options are available:\n\nAn examination for admission to bar training for advocates and legal advisors is a written test, 100 out of 150 points guarantee admission. The examination covers: 1) criminal law and criminal procedure; 2) infraction law and infraction court proceedings; 3) financial criminal law and financial criminal proceedings; 4) civil law and civil procedure; 5) family law; 6) public business law; 7) commercial companies and partnerships law; 8) labour law and social security regulations; 9) administrative law and administrative procedure; 10) administrative court proceedings; 11) European Union law; 12) constitutional law; 13) organization of justice in Poland.\n\nBar training for advocates and legal advisors lasts for three years and consists of theoretical and practical classes. Each trainee () has his/her individual tutor, who must be a practitioner from the respective bar. Bar examination is a written exam which lasts 4 days and consists of preparing various documents and briefs in following areas: criminal law, civil or family law, commercial law, administrative law, ethics.\n\nBar training for notaries is slightly shorter (2,5 years) and covers different areas of law.\n\nThe body in charge of training for future judges and public prosecutors is The National School of Judiciary and Public Prosecution in Kraków. After one-year general training, the candidates proceed to a specialised training (judge/public prosecutor) for another 30 months. Then, trainee judges serve internships as law clerks (12 months) and as referendaries (). Similar internship is provided for public prosecutors.\n\nOnce admitted to the bar association of one occupation, a jurist can move to another occupation with little hassle.\n\nOnly judges, public prosecutors, notaries, professors and habilitated doctors of laws can write certoriaris to the Constitutional Tribunal in cases in which they themselves are sides. All others must use services of advocates or legal advisors. Certioraris to the Supreme Court must always be prepared by an advocate or a legal advisor.\n\nMany jurists do not practice law in the strict sense. They may work in public administration (which has its own highly legalized proceedings), the police (which prosecute small crimes), tax services and similar governmental agencies. Additionally, since a company can be represented in civil court by its own employees, some small and medium companies do not employ barristers or counselors, but instead rely on in-house lawyers not admitted to bar.\n\nBecause under Polish law an agent can act for any person therefore some lawyers do what in the UK is done by solicitors. Thus, specialized persons write legal agreements, perform negotiations, or execute debts. Polish law specifically permits persons with Magister's degree in Law to give legal advice.\n\nThere are numerous law firms in Poland, both small local firms and affiliate or branch offices of international law firms. Most international law firms have their Polish offices in Warsaw.\n\n"}
{"id": "404733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404733", "title": "List of sex-related court cases in the United States", "text": "List of sex-related court cases in the United States\n\nThe United States Supreme Court and various U.S. state courts have decided several cases regarding pornography, sexual activity, and reproductive rights. The trend has been one of courts striking down states' attempts to regulate sex.\n\nThe following is a list of noteworthy sex-related court cases in order by date. (Note that in the legal sense, the term \"sodomy\" often applies not only to anal sex but also to oral sex and other sex acts.)\n\n\nSee Case citation for an explanation of these numbers.\n\n"}
{"id": "53648310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53648310", "title": "Lunar Orbital Platform-Gateway", "text": "Lunar Orbital Platform-Gateway\n\nThe Lunar Orbital Platform-Gateway (LOP-G) is a proposal for a lunar-orbit space station intended to serve as an all-in-one solar-powered communications hub, science laboratory, short-term habitation module, and holding area for rovers and other robots.\n\nThe science disciplines to be studied on the Gateway are expected to include planetary science, astrophysics, Earth observations, heliophysics, fundamental space biology and human health and performance. \n\nThe Gateway is designed to be developed, serviced, and utilized in collaboration with commercial and international partners. It will also serve as the staging point for crewed and robotic lunar exploration and a staging point for NASA's proposed Deep Space Transport craft to perform a 300-400 day shakedown mission prior to NASA's first crewed Mars mission. Deep Space Transport is a concept of a reusable vehicle that uses electric and chemical propulsion and would be specifically designed for crewed missions to destinations such as Mars.\n\nThe development is led by the International Space Station partners: ESA, NASA, Roscosmos, JAXA and CSA for construction in the 2020s. The International Space Exploration Coordination Group (ISECG), which comprises 14 space agencies participating with NASA, have concluded that LOP-G will be critical in expanding human presence to the Moon, Mars and deeper into the solar system. Formerly known as the Deep Space Gateway, the station was renamed in NASA's proposal for the 2019 United States federal budget. The omnibus spending bill passed by Congress in March of 2018 provided NASA with $504 million for the development of LOP-G in fiscal year 2019.\n\nOriginally, NASA had intended to build the Gateway as part of the now cancelled Asteroid Redirect Mission. An informal joint statement on cooperation between NASA and Roscosmos was announced on 27 September 2017. Traveling to and from cislunar space (lunar orbit) will help gain the knowledge and experience necessary to venture beyond the Moon and into deep space. The LOP-G would be initially placed in a highly elliptical near-rectilinear halo orbit (NRHO) around the Moon which will bring the station within of the lunar surface at closest approach and as far away as on a six-day orbit. This orbit would allow lunar expeditions from the Gateway to reach a polar low lunar orbit using 730 m/s of delta-v in half a day and also allow less than 10 m/s of delta-v to be required per year in stationkeeping. The Gateway could conceivably also support in-situ resource utilization (ISRU) development and testing from lunar and asteroid resources. The Gateway would offer the opportunity for gradual buildup of capabilities for more complex missions over time. Various components of the Gateway are to be launched on a commercial launch vehicle and on the Space Launch System as Orion co-manifested payloads on the flights EM-3 through EM-8. According to Roscosmos, they may also use Proton-M and Angara-A5M heavy launchers to fly payloads or crew.\n\nThe Power and Propulsion Element (PPE) for the LOP-G will have a mass of 8-9 t and be capable of generating 50 kW of solar electric power for its ion thrusters system for maneuverability, which can be supported by chemical propulsion. NASA stated that the most likely ion engine to be used on the PPE is the 14 kW Hall thruster called Advanced Electric Propulsion System (AEPS) still being developed by Glenn Research Center, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and Aerojet Rocketdyne. Four identical AEPS engines would consume the 50 kW generated.\n\nPatrick Troutman serves as the lead for strategic assessments for the Deep Space Transport and the Lunar Orbital Platform-Gateway.\n\nOn 1 November 2017, NASA commissioned 5 studies lasting four months into affordable ways to develop the Power and Propulsion Element (PPE), hopefully leveraging private companies' plans. These studies had a combined budget of $2.4 million. The companies performing the PPE studies are Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Orbital ATK, Sierra Nevada and Space Systems/Loral. These awards are in addition of the ongoing set of NextSTEP-2 awards made in 2016 to study development and make ground prototypes of habitat modules that could be used on the Lunar Orbital Platform-Gateway as well as other commercial applications, so the LOP-G is likely to incorporate components developed under NextSTEP as well.\n\nOn 7 November 2017, NASA asked the global science community to submit concepts for scientific studies that could take advantage of the Gateway's location in cislunar space. The Deep Space Gateway Concept Science Workshop was held in Denver, Colorado from February 27th to March 1st 2018. This three-day conference was a workshop where 196 presentations were given for possible scientific studies that could be advanced through the use of the Gateway.\n\nAn earlier NASA proposal for a cislunar station had been made public in 2012 and was dubbed the Deep Space Habitat. That proposal had led to funding in 2015 under the NextSTEP program to study the requirements of deep space habitats.\nIn February 2018 it was announced that those NextSTEP studies and other ISS partner studies would help to guide the capabilities required of the Gateway's habitation modules.\n\nNASA has also initiated a Revolutionary Aerospace Systems Concepts Academic Linkage (RASC-AL) competition for universities to develop concepts and capabilities for the Gateway. The competitors are asked to employ original engineering and analysis in one of the following areas:\nTeams of undergraduate and graduate students were asked to submit a response by January 17, 2019 addressing one of these four themes. NASA will select 20 teams to continue developing proposed concepts. Fourteen of the teams will be invited to present their projects in person on June 2019 at the RASC-AL Forum in Cocoa Beach, Florida and will receive a $6,000 stipend to participate in the Forum.\n\nThe early concept for the LOP-G is still evolving, and may include the following component modules:\n\n\n\nThe Deep Space Gateway has received numerous criticisms from several space professionals for lacking a proper scientific goal. Former NASA Astronaut Terry Virts, who was a pilot of STS-130 aboard Space Shuttle Endeavour and Commander of the International Space Station on Expedition 43 wrote in an Op-ed on Ars Technica that the Deep Space Gateway would \"shackle human exploration, not enable it\". Terry stated that there is no concrete human spaceflight goal with the Deep Space Gateway and that he cannot envision a new technology that would be developed or validated by building another modular space station. Terry further criticized NASA for abandoning its safety dictum of separating the crew from the cargo which was put in place following the Space Shuttle Columbia accident in 2003.\n\nMars Society founder Robert Zubrin, who has been one of the staunchest advocates for a human mission to Mars, called the Deep Space Gateway \"NASA's worst plan yet\" in an article on the National Review. Robert went on to say \"We do not need a lunar-orbiting station to go to the Moon. We do not need such a station to go to Mars. We do not need it to go to near-Earth asteroids. We do not need it to go anywhere. Nor can we accomplish anything in such a station that we cannot do in the Earth-orbiting International Space Station\" and that \"there is nothing at all in lunar orbit: nothing to use, nothing to explore, nothing to do\". Robert also stated that \"If the goal is to build a Moon base, it should be built on the surface of the Moon. That is where the science is, that is where the shielding material is, and that is where the resources to make propellant and other useful things are to be found.\"\n\nRetired aerospace engineer Gerald Black stated that the \"LOP-G is useless for supporting human return to the lunar surface and a lunar base.\" He added that it is not even planned to be used as a rocket fuel depot and that stopping at LOP-G on the way to or from the Moon would serve no useful purpose and it would actually waste rocket fuel.\n\nPei Zhaoyu, deputy director of the Lunar Exploration and Space Program Center of the China National Space Administration, concludes that, from a cost-benefit standpoint, the gateway would have \"lost cost-effectiveness.\" Pei said the Chinese plan is to focus on a research station on the surface.\n\nFormer NASA administrator Michael Griffin, who was a key architect of the Constellation Program stated during the National Space Council Users' Advisory Group that \"putting a Gateway before boots on the Moon is, from a space-systems engineer's standpoint, a stupid architecture. Griffin further stated that the \"Gateway is useful when, but not before, we are manufacturing propellant on the Moon and shipping it up to a depot in lunar orbit. We should be, with all deliberate speed, returning to the Moon and learning how to utilize the resources of our nearest Earth-orbit object.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "308347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308347", "title": "MARPOL 73/78", "text": "MARPOL 73/78\n\nThe International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973 as modified by the Protocol of 1978 (MARPOL 73/78, MARPOL is short for marine pollution and 73/78 short for the years 1973 and 1978) is one of the most important international marine environmental conventions. It was developed by the International Maritime Organization in an effort to minimize pollution of the oceans and seas, including dumping, oil and air pollution. The objective of this convention is to preserve the marine environment in an attempt to completely eliminate pollution by oil and other harmful substances and to minimize accidental spillage of such substances.\n\nThe original MARPOL was signed on 17 February 1973, but did not come into force at the signing date. The current convention is a combination of 1973 Convention and the 1978 Protocol, which entered into force on 2 October 1983. As of January 2018, 156 states are parties to the convention, being flag states of 99.42% of the world's shipping tonnage.\n\nAll ships flagged under countries that are signatories to MARPOL are subject to its requirements, regardless of where they sail and member nations are responsible for vessels registered on their national ship registry.\n\nMARPOL is divided into Annexes according to various categories of pollutants, each of which deals with the regulation of a particular group of ship emissions.\n\nMARPOL Annex I came into force on 2 October 1983 and deals with discharge of oil into the ocean environment. It incorporates the oil discharge criteria prescribed in the 1969 amendments to the 1954 International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil (OILPOL). It specifies tanker design features that are intended to minimize oil discharge into the ocean during ship operations and in case of accidents. It provides regulations with regard to treatment of engine room bilge water (OWS) for all large commercial vessels and ballast and tank cleaning waste (ODME). It also introduces the concept of \"special sea areas (PPSE)\" which are considered to be at risk to pollution by oil. Discharge of oil within them has been completely outlawed, with a few minimal exceptions.\n\nThe first half of MARPOL Annex I deals with engine room waste. There are various generations of technologies and equipment that have been developed to prevent waste such as: Oily water separators (OWS), Oil Content meters (OCM), and Port Reception Facilities.\n\nThe second part of the MARPOL Annex I has more to do with cleaning the cargo areas and tanks. Oil Discharge Monitoring Equipment (ODME) is a very important technology mentioned in MARPOL Annex I that has greatly helped improve sanitation in these areas.\n\nThe Oil Record Book is another integral part of MARPOL Annex I. The Oil Record Book helps crew members log and keep track of oily waste water discharges among other things.\n\nMARPOL Annex II came into force on 6 April 1987. It details the discharge criteria for the elimination of pollution by noxious liquid substances carried in large quantities. It divides substances into and introduces detailed operational standards and measures. The discharge of pollutants is allowed only to reception facilities with certain concentrations and conditions. No matter what, no discharge of residues containing pollutants is permitted within 12 miles of the nearest land. Stricter restrictions apply to \"special areas\".\n\nAnnex II covers the International Bulk Chemical Code (IBC Code) in conjunction with Chapter 7 of the SOLAS Convention. Previously, chemical tankers constructed before must comply with the requirements of the Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk (BCH Code).\n\nMARPOL Annex III came into force on 1 July 1992. It contains general requirements for the standards on packing, marking, labeling, documentation, stowage, quantity subtraction, division and notifications for preventing pollution by harmful substances. The Annex is in line with the procedures detailed in the International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code, which has been expanded to include marine pollutants. The amendments entered into force on 1 January 1991.\n\nMarpol Annex IV came into force on 27 September 2003. It introduces requirements to control pollution of the sea by sewage from ships.\n\nMARPOL Annex V (\"Regulations for the Prevention of Pollution by Garbage from Ships\") came into force on 31 December 1988. It specifies the distances from land in which materials may be disposed of and subdivides different types of garbage and marine debris. The requirements are much stricter in a number of \"special areas\" but perhaps the most prominent part of the Annex is the complete ban of dumping plastic into the ocean.\n\nMARPOL Annex VI came into force on 19 May 2005. It introduces requirements to regulate the air pollution being emitted by ships, including the emission of ozone-depleting substances, Nitrogen Oxides (NOx), Sulphur Oxides (SOx), Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) and shipboard incineration. It also establishes requirements for reception facilities for wastes from exhaust gas cleaning systems, incinerators, fuel oil quality, for off-shore platforms and drilling rigs and for the establishment of SOx Emission Control Areas (SECAs).\n\nMARPOL Annex VI amendments according with MEPC 176(58) came into force 1 July 2010.\n\nAmended Regulations 12 concerns control and record keeping of Ozone Depleting Substances.\n\nAmended Regulation 14 concerns mandatory fuel oil change over procedures for vessels entering or leaving SECA areas and FO sulphur limits.\n\nMARPOL Annex V has been amended multiple times, changing different aspects of the original text. \n\nMEPC.219(63) came into force on 2 March 2012 to generally prohibit the discharge of any garbage into the ocean, with the exception of food wastes, cargo residues, wash-water, and animal carcasses. There are further provisions describing when and how to dispose of the acceptable wastes.\n\nMEPC.220(63) came into force on 2 March 2012 to encourage the creation of a waste management plan on-board vessels.\n\nIn order for IMO standards to be binding, they must first be ratified by a total number of member countries whose combined gross tonnage represents at least 50% of the world's gross tonnage, a process that can be lengthy. A system of tacit acceptance has therefore been put into place, whereby if no objections are heard from a member state after a certain period has elapsed, it is assumed they have assented to the treaty.\n\nAll six Annexes have been ratified by the requisite number of nations; the most recent is Annex VI, which took effect in May 2005. The country where a ship is registered (Flag State) is responsible for certifying the ship's compliance with MARPOL's pollution prevention standards. Each signatory nation is responsible for enacting domestic laws to implement the convention and effectively pledges to comply with the convention, annexes, and related laws of other nations. In the United States, for example, the relevant implementation legislation is the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships.\n\nOne of the difficulties in implementing MARPOL arises from the very international nature of maritime shipping. The country that the ship visits can conduct its own examination to verify a ship's compliance with international standards and can detain the ship if it finds significant noncompliance. When incidents occur outside such country's jurisdiction or jurisdiction cannot be determined, the country refers cases to flag states, in accordance with MARPOL. A 2000 US GAO report documented that even when referrals have been made, the response rate from flag states has been poor.\n\nOn January 1, 2015, maritime shipping levels became legally subject to new MARPOL directives because the SECA (Sulphur Emission Controlled Areas) zone increased in size. This larger SECA zone will include the North Sea, Scandinavia, and parts of the English Channel. This area is set to include all of the Republic of Ireland's international waters in 2020 culminating in all of Western Europe's subjection to the MARPOL directive. This has proven controversial for shipping and ferry operators across Europe.\n\nConcerns have been raised about the environmental damage moving back to the roads by some of the larger ferry operators that ship substantial amounts of freight and passenger traffic via these routes affected by IMO standards. They claim that MARPOL will drive up ferry costs for the consumer and freight forwarding companies pushing them back onto the European roadways as a financially more cost effective measure compared to increased ferry costs, thereby defeating the object of reducing water pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14743361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14743361", "title": "Malolos Constitution", "text": "Malolos Constitution\n\nThe Political Constitution of 1899 (), informally known as the Malolos Constitution, was the basic law of the First Philippine Republic. It was written by Felipe Calderón y Roca and Felipe Buencamino as an alternative to a pair of proposals to the Malolos Congress by Apolinario Mabini and Pedro Paterno. After a lengthy debate in the latter part of 1898, it was promulgated on 21 January 1899.\n\nOver 300 years of Spanish rule, the country developed from a small overseas colony governed from the Viceroyalty of New Spain to a land with modern elements in the cities. The Spanish-speaking middle classes of the 19th century were mostly educated in the European ideas, including Liberalism, many studying in Spain and elsewhere in Europe.\n\nDuring the 1890s, the Katipunan, or KKK, a secret society dedicated to achieving Philippine independence from Spain, was formed and led by Andres Bonifacio. When the KKK was discovered by Spanish authorities, Bonifacio issued the Cry of Balintawak which began the Philippine Revolution in 1896. The revolutionary forces took steps to form a functioning government called the Republic of Biak-na-Bato. In 1897 the Tejeros Convention was convened and the Constitution of Biak-na-Bato drafted and ratified. It was drafted by Isabelo Artacho and Félix Ferrer and based on the first Constitution of Cuba. However, it was never fully implemented. After several battles between the Spanish and Philippine Revolutionary Army, a truce was signed called the Pact of Biak-na-Bato in 1897. Emilio Aguinaldo (who had replaced Bonfiacio as leader) and other revolutionary leaders accepted a payment from Spain and went into exile in Hong Kong.\n\nWhen the Spanish–American War broke out on April 25, 1898, the United States Commodore George Dewey aboard the sailed from Hong Kong to Manila Bay leading the Asiatic Squadron of the U.S. Navy. On May 1, 1898, the American force defeated the Spanish in the Battle of Manila Bay. Later that month, the U.S. Navy transported Aguinaldo back to the Philippines.\n\nAguinaldo took control of the newly re-formed Philippine revolutionary forces and quickly surrounded Manila on land while the American blockaded the city from the bay. On June 12, Aguinaldo issued the Philippine Declaration of Independence and followed that with several decrees forming the First Philippine Republic. Elections were held from June 23 to September 10, 1898 for a new national legislature, the Malolos Congress.\n\nAfter the Malolos Congress was convened on 15 September, 1898, a committee was selected to draft a constitution for the republic. The committee was composed of Hipólito Magsalin, Basilio Teodoro, José Albert, Joaquín González, Gregorio Araneta, Pablo Ocampo, Aguedo Velarde, Higinio Benitez, Tomás del Rosario, José Alejandrino, Alberto Barretto, José Ma. de la Viña, José Luna, Antonio Luna, Mariano Abella, Juan Manday, Felipe Calderón, Arsenio Cruz and Felipe Buencamino. They were all wealthy and well educated.\n\nThe Political Constitution of 1899 is written in Spanish which was the official language of the Philippines at the time. It is composed of ninety-three articles divided into fourteen titles, with further eight articles with transitory provisions, and a final additional article.\n\nThe style of the document is patterned after the Spanish Constitution of 1812, which many Latin American charters from the same period similarly follow. Calderon himself writes in his journal that the charters of Belgium, Mexico, Brazil, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Guatemala, in addition to using the French Constitution of 1793, were also studied as these countries shared similar social, political, ethnological and governance conditions with the Philippine Islands.\n\nThe principle of the retroversion of the sovereignty to the people, which challenged the legitimacy of the colonial authorities of the Spanish Empire, was the legal principle underlying the Spanish American wars of independence and Philippine Revolution. This principle was a preprocessor to the concept of popular sovereignty, currently expressed in most constitutional systems throughout the world, whereby the people delegate governmental functions to their civil servants while retaining the actual sovereignty.\n\nThis concept of the precedence of popular sovereignty over the national sovereignty is derived from the French political document, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen of 1793 (French: \"Déclaration des droits de l'Homme et du citoyen de 1793\") and forms the philosophical basis for article 4 of the Malolos Constitution and echoes the American Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution.\n\nThe twenty-seven articles of Title IV detail the natural rights and popular sovereignty of Filipinos. The list is extensive, encompassing not just civil liberties and negative liberties, but also protections against self-incrimination and the limitation of criminal procedure. The inclusion of the rights of the accused in the national charter was done in direct response to numerous instances of abuse by police, a number of them specifically mentioned in the 12 June 1898 Philippine Declaration of Independence. This concept of constitutionally defining what is essentially administrative action is not unique to the Malolos constitution. In fact, the right defined in the Filipino charter is actually a shorter enumeration of the civil and political rights of the Spanish citizen enshrined in the liberal Spanish Constitution of 1869 which brought liberalism into the public consciousness and inspired a generation of national heroes starting with governor-general Carlos María de la Torre and secular priest José Burgos, and later including such luminaries as Galicano Apacible y Castillo, Graciano López y Jaena, Marcelo Hilario del Pilar y Gatmaitán and José Rizal. Calderón mentions in his journal that the draft constitution was meant to enshrine: \"all those freedoms that Englishmen enjoyed in the Assize of Clarendon (\"end to arbitrary arrest\", \"a professional and independent judiciary\") and in Magna Carta (\"due process of law\")\".\n\nAccording to Title III, Article 5 of the Malolos constitution: \"The State recognizes the freedom and equality of all beliefs, as well as the separation of Church and State.\"\n\nAccording to Title II, Article 4 the Government of the Republic is to be popular, representative, alternative and responsible, and shall exercise three distinct powers: namely, the legislative, the executive, and the judicial. Any two or more of these three powers shall never be united in one person or cooperation, nor the legislative power vested in one single individual. The Government of the Republic is a Responsible Government, a very important aspect of parliamentarianism where the executive branch is directly responsible to the legislative branch. This is further emphasized in Title V, Article 50 and Title VII, Article 56.\n\nTitle V, Article 50 stated that the National Assembly of Representatives (the unicameral legislature of the Republic) shall have the right of censure and each of the members the right of interpellation. Interpellation is a right granted to representatives to directly question members of the executive branch. In other words, there are Question Periods allotted to each member of the executive branch. While Title VII, Article 56 stated that executive power resides in the President of the Republic, who shall exercise it through his Secretaries convened in a Council of government that is led by the President of the council of government. The Constitution also stated in Title IX, Article 75 that the secretaries of government shall be held jointly responsible by the National Assembly for the general policies of Government, and individually for their personal actions like in most parliamentary systems.\n\nThe parliamentary terminologies used in this constitution are different to the more usual Anglo-Saxon titles. Terms like Parliament, Cabinet, Prime Minister, Minister, and Member of Parliament (or MP) are replaced with Assembly, Council of Government, President of the Council of Government, Secretary, and Representative, respectively.\n\nThe Permanent Commission is created to make decisions when the National Assembly is in recess. The National Assembly is empowered to elect seven of its members to constitute the Permanent Commission, with the obligation that the Commission choose a President and a Secretary on its first session. The Permanent Commission powers were:\n\nThe original was written in Spanish, which became the first official language of the Philippines and a number of translations have been published.\n\nThe First Philippine Republic never gained international recognition and the Malolos Constitution was never fully implemented across the Philippines.\n\nFollowing Spain's defeat in the Spanish–American War, the United States in the Treaty of Paris of 1898 acquired the Philippines from Spain, along with several other territories. On February 4, 1899, the Philippine–American War started with the Battle of Manila of 1899. On March 23, 1901 Aguinaldo was captured. On April 19, he issued a Proclamation of Formal Surrender to the United States, telling his followers to lay down their weapons and give up the fight. General Miguel Malvar took over the leadership of the Filipino government, or what remained of it. Malvar surrendered, along with his sick wife and children and some of his officers, on April 13, 1902.\n\nBeginning with the Philippine Organic Act of 1902 the United States Congress passed a number of so-called organic acts in the American constitutional tradition which acted like constitutions for the colonial Insular Government. Eventually the Tydings–McDuffie Act of 1934 was passed leading to the Constitution of the Philippine Commonwealth and the subsequent constitutions of the Philippines, including the current Constitution of the Philippines of 1987. These were written in the American constitutional tradition and based upon American constitutional principles, often lifting wording directly from the U.S. Constitution and other American sources. The Malolos Constitution, rooted in Spanish constitutionalism, has had limited influence on subsequent Philippine constitutions, rooted in American constitutionalism.\n\nIsagani Giron, a past president of the historical society of Bulacan (Sampaka), described the Malolos Constitution as \"the best Constitution the country ever had\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104824", "title": "Millport, Alabama", "text": "Millport, Alabama\n\nMillport is a town in Lamar County, Alabama, United States. It incorporated in 1887. At the 2010 census the population was 1,049, down from 1,160 in 2000. After its incorporation from 1890-1900, it was the largest town in Lamar County, losing the distinction to Sulligent. Since 1940, it has been the 3rd largest town.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , of which is land and 0.18% is water.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 1,160 people, 495 households, and 328 families residing in the town. The population density was 213.7 people per square mile (82.5/km²). There were 561 housing units at an average density of 103.3 per square mile (39.9/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 65.52% White, 33.97% Black, 0.09% Native American, and 0.43% from two or more races.\n\nThere were 495 households out of which 28.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.1% were married couples living together, 16.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.7% were non-families. 32.5% of all households were made up of individuals and 15.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.34 and the average family size was 2.96.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 24.0% under the age of 18, 8.8% from 18 to 24, 26.6% from 25 to 44, 24.1% from 45 to 64, and 16.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 85.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 84.1 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $26,458, and the median income for a family was $33,869. Males had a median income of $30,521 versus $17,396 for females. The per capita income for the town was $12,822. About 18.2% of families and 21.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 25.4% of those under age 18 and 28.7% of those age 65 or over.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 1,049 people, 453 households, and 304 families residing in the town. The population density was 194.3 people per square mile (74.4/km²). There were 536 housing units at an average density of 99.3 per square mile (38.0/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 64.7% White, 33.7% Black, 0.1% Native American, and 1.3% from two or more races.\n\nThere were 453 households out of which 27.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 43.7% were married couples living together, 19.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 32.9% were non-families. 30.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 15.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.32 and the average family size was 2.88.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 23.1% under the age of 18, 9.9% from 18 to 24, 24.0% from 25 to 44, 25.0% from 45 to 64, and 18.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 39.4 years. For every 100 females, there were 83.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 83.9 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $23,722, and the median income for a family was $24,597. Males had a median income of $34,125 versus $22,153 for females. The per capita income for the town was $15,309. About 18.5% of families and 21.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 31.7% of those under age 18 and 7.5% of those age 65 or over.\n\n\n\nMillport filed for chapter 9 bankruptcy in 2005 after mayor Waymon Fields, who was a former banker and was elected in 2004, discovered that the town was almost $3.5 million behind in payments and was facing its water and sewer system being taken over by the federal government because of missed payments.\n"}
{"id": "57877866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57877866", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Democratic Republic of the Congo)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Democratic Republic of the Congo)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Human Rights of the Democratic Republic of Congo (Congo-Kinshasa) has the following duties: \n\n\nThe ministry exercises the rights conferred by the Code of Organization and Judicial Jurisdiction, Law on the Status of Magistrates, and the Penal and Civil Procedure Codes. During the course of its history, the country was known as Zaire. Most recently, in 2010, the Ministry of Human Rights merged with the Ministry of Justice. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57882099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57882099", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Legal Affairs (Antigua and Barbuda)", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Legal Affairs (Antigua and Barbuda)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Legal Affairs is a ministerial department of the government of Antigua and Barbuda. The Minister of Justice simultaneously serves as the Attorney General. \n\nA list of past and current ministers mainly serving after independence in 1981 are listed as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28357747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28357747", "title": "National numbering agency", "text": "National numbering agency\n\nA national numbering agency (NNA) is the organisation in each country responsible for issuing International Securities Identification Numbers (ISIN) as described by the ISO 6166 standard and the Classification of Financial Instruments code as described by the ISO 10962 standard. The role of NNA is typically assigned to the national stock exchange, central bank, or financial regulator but may be as diverse as a financial data provider or clearing and custodian organisation for that country.\n\nThere is a global governing body that coordinates the work of the NNAs called the Association of National Numbering Agencies (ANNA).\n\n"}
{"id": "397763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397763", "title": "Near-field communication", "text": "Near-field communication\n\nNear-field communication (NFC) is a set of communication protocols that enable two electronic devices, one of which is usually a portable device such as a smartphone, to establish communication by bringing them within 4 cm (1.6 in) of each other.\n\nNFC devices are used in contactless payment systems, similar to those used in credit cards and electronic ticket smartcards and allow mobile payment to replace/supplement these systems. This is sometimes referred to as NFC/CTLS (Contactless) or CTLS NFC. NFC is used for social networking, for sharing contacts, photos, videos or files. NFC-enabled devices can act as electronic identity documents and keycards. NFC offers a low-speed connection with simple setup that can be used to bootstrap more capable wireless connections.\n\nSimilar ideas in advertising and industrial applications were not generally successful commercially, outpaced by technologies such as barcodes and UHF RFID tags. NFC protocols established a generally supported standard. When one of the connected devices has Internet connectivity, the other can exchange data with online services.\n\nNFC-enabled portable devices can be provided with application software, for example, to read electronic tags or make payments when connected to an NFC-compliant apparatus. Earlier close-range communication used technology that was proprietary to the manufacturer for applications such as stock ticket, access control and payment readers.\n\nLike other \"proximity card\" technologies, NFC employs electromagnetic induction between two loop antennas when NFC-enabled devices—for example a smartphone and a printer—exchange information, operating within the globally available unlicensed radio frequency ISM band of 13.56 MHz on ISO/IEC 18000-3 air interface at rates ranging from 106 to 424 kbit/s.\n\nEach full NFC device can work in three modes:\n\nNFC tags are passive data stores which can be read, and under some circumstances written to, by an NFC device. They typically contain data ( between 96 and 8,192 bytes) and are read-only in normal use, but may be rewritable. Applications include secure personal data storage (e.g. debit or credit card information, loyalty program data, personal identification numbers (PINs), contacts). NFC tags can be custom-encoded by their manufacturers or use the industry specifications.\n\nThe standards were provided by the NFC Forum. The forum was responsible for promoting the technology and setting standards and certifies device compliance. Secure communications are available by applying encryption algorithms as is done for credit cards and if they fit the criteria for being considered a personal area network.\n\nNFC standards cover communications protocols and data exchange formats and are based on existing radio-frequency identification (RFID) standards including ISO/IEC 14443 and FeliCa. The standards include ISO/IEC 18092 and those defined by the NFC Forum. In addition to the NFC Forum, the GSMA group defined a platform for the deployment of GSMA NFC Standards within mobile handsets. GSMA's efforts include Trusted Services Manager, Single Wire Protocol, testing/certification and secure element.\n\nA patent licensing program for NFC is under deployment by France Brevets, a patent fund created in 2011. This program was under development by Via Licensing Corporation, an independent subsidiary of Dolby Laboratories, and was terminated in May 2012. A platform-independent free and open source NFC library, , is available under the GNU Lesser General Public License.\n\nPresent and anticipated applications include contactless transactions, data exchange and simplified setup of more complex communications such as Wi-Fi.\n\nNFC is rooted in radio-frequency identification technology (known as RFID) which allows compatible hardware to both supply power to and communicate with an otherwise unpowered and passive electronic tag using radio waves. This is used for identification, authentication and tracking.\n\nNFC is a set of short-range wireless technologies, typically requiring a separation of 10 cm or less. NFC operates at 13.56 MHz on ISO/IEC 18000-3 air interface and at rates ranging from 106 kbit/s to 424 kbit/s. NFC always involves an initiator and a target; the initiator actively generates an RF field that can power a passive target. This enables NFC targets to take very simple form factors such as unpowered tags, stickers, key fobs, or cards. NFC peer-to-peer communication is possible, provided both devices are powered.\n\nNFC tags contain data and are typically read-only, but may be writeable. They can be custom-encoded by their manufacturers or use NFC Forum specifications. The tags can securely store personal data such as debit and credit card information, loyalty program data, PINs and networking contacts, among other information. The NFC Forum defines four types of tags that provide different communication speeds and capabilities in terms of configurability, memory, security, data retention and write endurance. Tags currently offer between 96 and 4,096 bytes of memory.\n\nAs with proximity card technology, near-field communication uses electromagnetic induction between two loop antennas located within each other's near field, effectively forming an air-core transformer. It operates within the globally available and unlicensed radio frequency ISM band of 13.56 MHz. Most of the RF energy is concentrated in the allowed ±7 kHz bandwidth range, but the spectral mask for the main lobe is as wide as 1.8 MHz.\n\nTheoretical working distance with compact standard antennas: up to 20 cm (practical working distance of about 10 cm). Note because the pickup antenna may be quenched by nearby metallic surfaces, the tags may need to be spaced slightly away from the surface.\n\nSupported data rates: 106, 212 or 424 kbit/s (the bit rate 848 kbit/s is not compliant with the standard ISO/IEC 18092)\n\nThe two modes are:\n\nNFC employs two different codings to transfer data. If an active device transfers data at 106 kbit/s, a modified Miller coding with 100% modulation is used. In all other cases Manchester coding is used with a modulation ratio of 10%.\n\nNFC devices are full-duplex—they are able to receive and transmit data at the same time. Thus, they can check for potential collisions if the received signal frequency does not match the transmitted signal's frequency.\n\nAlthough the range of NFC is limited to a few centimeters, plain NFC does not ensure secure communications. In 2006, Ernst Haselsteiner and Klemens Breitfuß described possible attacks and detailed how to leverage NFC's resistance to man-in-the-middle attacks to establish a specific key. As this technique is not part of the ISO standard, NFC offers no protection against eavesdropping and can be vulnerable to data modifications. Applications may use higher-layer cryptographic protocols (e.g. SSL) to establish a secure channel.\n\nThe RF signal for the wireless data transfer can be picked up with antennas. The distance from which an attacker is able to eavesdrop the RF signal depends on multiple parameters, but is typically less than 10 meters. Also, eavesdropping is highly affected by the communication mode. A passive device that doesn't generate its own RF field is much harder to eavesdrop on than an active device. An attacker can typically eavesdrop within 10 m and 1 m for active devices and passive devices, respectively.\n\nBecause NFC devices usually include ISO/IEC 14443 protocols, relay attacks are feasible. For this attack the adversary forwards the request of the reader to the victim and relays its answer to the reader in real time, pretending to be the owner of the victim's smart card. This is similar to a man-in-the-middle attack. One code example demonstrates a relay attack using two stock commercial NFC devices. This attack can be implemented using only two NFC-enabled mobile phones.\n\nNFC standards cover communications protocols and data exchange formats, and are based on existing RFID standards including ISO/IEC 14443 and FeliCa. The standards include ISO/IEC 18092 and those defined by the NFC Forum.\n\nNFC is standardized in ECMA-340 and ISO/IEC 18092. These standards specify the modulation schemes, coding, transfer speeds and frame format of the RF interface of NFC devices, as well as initialization schemes and conditions required for data collision-control during initialization for both passive and active NFC modes. They also define the transport protocol, including protocol activation and data-exchange methods. The air interface for NFC is standardized in:\nNFC incorporates a variety of existing standards including ISO/IEC 14443 Type A and Type B, and FeliCa. NFC-enabled phones work at a basic level with existing readers. In \"card emulation mode\" an NFC device should transmit, at a minimum, a unique ID number to a reader. In addition, NFC Forum defined a common data format called \"NFC Data Exchange Format\" (NDEF) that can store and transport items ranging from any MIME-typed object to ultra-short RTD-documents, such as URLs. The NFC Forum added the \"Simple NDEF Exchange Protocol\" (SNEP) to the spec that allows sending and receiving messages between two NFC devices.\n\nThe GSM Association (GSMA) is a trade association representing nearly 800 mobile telephony operators and more than 200 product and service companies across 219 countries. Many of its members have led NFC trials and are preparing services for commercial launch.\n\nGSM is involved with several initiatives:\n\nStoLPaN (Store Logistics and Payment with NFC) is a pan-European consortium supported by the European Commission's Information Society Technologies program. StoLPaN will examine the potential for NFC local wireless mobile communication.\n\nNFC Forum is a non-profit industry association formed on March 18, 2004, by NXP Semiconductors, Sony and Nokia to advance the use of NFC wireless interaction in consumer electronics, mobile devices and PCs. Standards include the four distinct tag types that provide different communication speeds and capabilities covering flexibility, memory, security, data retention and write endurance. NFC Forum promotes implementation and standardization of NFC technology to ensure interoperability between devices and services. As of June 2013, the NFC Forum had over 190 member companies.\n\nNFC Forum promotes NFC and certifies device compliance and whether it fits in a personal area network.\n\nGSMA defined a platform for the deployment of GSMA NFC Standards within mobile handsets. GSMA's efforts include, Single Wire Protocol, testing and certification and secure element. The GSMA standards surrounding the deployment of NFC protocols (governed by NFC Forum) on mobile handsets are neither exclusive nor universally accepted. For example, Google's deployment of Host Card Emulation on Android KitKat provides for software control of a universal radio. In this HCE Deployment the NFC protocol is leveraged without the GSMA standards.\n\nOther standardization bodies involved in NFC include:\n\nNFC allows one- and two-way communication between endpoints, suitable for many applications.\n\nNFC devices can be used in contactless payment systems, similar to those used in credit cards and electronic ticket smartcards and allow mobile payment to replace/supplement these systems.\n\nIn Android 4.4, Google introduced platform support for secure NFC-based transactions through Host Card Emulation (HCE), for payments, loyalty programs, card access, transit passes and other custom services. HCE allows any Android 4.4 app to emulate an NFC smart card, letting users initiate transactions with their device. Apps can use a new Reader Mode to act as readers for HCE cards and other NFC-based transactions.\n\nOn September 9, 2014, Apple announced support for NFC-powered transactions as part of Apple Pay. With the introduction of iOS 11, Apple devices allow third-party developers to read data from NFC tags.\n\nNFC offers a low-speed connection with simple setup that can be used to bootstrap more capable wireless connections. For example, Android Beam software uses NFC to enable pairing and establish a Bluetooth connection when doing a file transfer and then disabling Bluetooth on both devices upon completion. Nokia, Samsung, BlackBerry and Sony have used NFC technology to pair Bluetooth headsets, media players and speakers with one tap. The same principle can be applied to the configuration of Wi-Fi networks. Samsung Galaxy devices have a feature named S-Beam—an extension of Android Beam that uses NFC (to share MAC Address and IP addresses) and then uses Wi-Fi Direct to share files and documents. The advantage of using Wi-Fi Direct over Bluetooth is that it permits much faster data transfers, running up to 300Mbit/s.\n\nNFC can be used for social networking, for sharing contacts, text messages and forums, links to photos, videos or files and entering multiplayer mobile games. \n\nNFC-enabled devices can act as electronic identity documents and keycards. NFC's short range and encryption support make it more suitable than less private RFID systems.\n\nNFC-equipped smartphones can be paired with NFC Tags or stickers that can be programmed by NFC apps. These programs can allow a change of phone settings, texting, app launching, or command execution.\n\nSuch apps do not rely on a company or manufacturer, but can be utilized immediately with an NFC-equipped smartphone and an NFC tag.\n\nThe NFC Forum published the Signature Record Type Definition (RTD) 2.0 in 2015 to add integrity and authenticity for NFC Tags. This specification allows an NFC device to verify tag data and identify the tag author.\n\nNFC was used in video games starting with . With it you buy figurines that are customizable and contain personal data with each figure, so no two figures are exactly alike. The Wii U was the first system to include NFC technology out of the box via the GamePad. It was later included in the Nintendo 3DS range (being built into the New Nintendo 3DS/XL and in a separately sold reader which uses Infrared to communicate to the system). The Amiibo range of accessories utilizes NFC technology to unlock features.\n\nAdidas Telstar 18 is a soccer ball that contains an NFC chip within. The chip enables users to interact with the ball using a smartphone.\n\nNFC and Bluetooth are both relatively short-range communication technologies available on mobile phones. NFC operates at slower speeds than Bluetooth and has a much shorter range, but consumes far less power and doesn't require pairing.\n\nNFC sets up more quickly than standard Bluetooth, but has a lower transfer rate than Bluetooth low energy. With NFC, instead of performing manual configurations to identify devices, the connection between two NFC devices is automatically established in less than .1 second. The maximum data transfer rate of NFC (424 kbit/s) is slower than that of Bluetooth V2.1 (2.1 Mbit/s).\n\nNFC's maximum working distance of less than 20 cm reduces the likelihood of unwanted interception, making it particularly suitable for crowded areas that complicate correlating a signal with its transmitting physical device (and by extension, its user).\n\nNFC is compatible with existing passive RFID (13.56 MHz ISO/IEC 18000-3) infrastructures. It requires comparatively low power, similar to the Bluetooth V4.0 low-energy protocol. When NFC works with an unpowered device (e.g. on a phone that may be turned off, a contactless smart credit card, a smart poster), however, the NFC power consumption is greater than that of Bluetooth V4.0 Low Energy, since illuminating the passive tag needs extra power.\n\nIn 2011, handset vendors released more than 40 NFC-enabled handsets with the Android mobile operating system. The iPhone 6 line is the first set of handsets from Apple to support NFC. BlackBerry devices support NFC using BlackBerry Tag on devices running BlackBerry OS 7.0 and greater.\n\nMasterCard added further NFC support for PayPass for the Android and BlackBerry platforms, enabling PayPass users to make payments using their Android or BlackBerry smartphones. A partnership between Samsung and Visa added a 'payWave' application on the Galaxy S4 smartphone.\n\nMicrosoft added native NFC functionality in their mobile OS with Windows Phone 8, as well as the Windows 8 operating system. Microsoft provides the \"Wallet hub\" in Windows Phone 8 for NFC payment, and can integrate multiple NFC payment services within a single application.\n\n, hundreds of NFC trials had been conducted. Some firms moved to full-scale service deployments, spanning one or more countries. Multi-country deployments include Orange's rollout of NFC technology to banks, retailers, transport, and service providers in multiple European countries, and Airtel Africa and Oberthur Technologies deploying to 15 countries throughout Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "517136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517136", "title": "Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.", "text": "Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.\n\nOliver Wendell Holmes Jr. (March 8, 1841 – March 6, 1935) was an American jurist who served as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1902 to 1932, and as Acting Chief Justice of the United States in January–February 1930. Noted for his long service, concise and pithy opinions, and deference to the decisions of elected legislatures, he is one of the most widely cited United States Supreme Court justices in history, particularly for his \"clear and present danger\" opinion for a unanimous Court in the 1919 case of \"Schenck v. United States\", and is one of the most influential American common law judges, honored during his lifetime in Great Britain as well as the United States. Holmes retired from the court at the age of 90, making him the oldest justice in the Supreme Court's history. He also served as an Associate Justice and as Chief Justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, and was Weld Professor of Law at his alma mater, Harvard Law School.\n\nProfoundly influenced by his experience fighting in the American Civil War, Holmes helped move American legal thinking towards legal realism, as summed up in his maxim: \"The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience.\" Holmes espoused a form of moral skepticism and opposed the doctrine of natural law, marking a significant shift in American jurisprudence. In one of his most famous opinions, his dissent in \"Abrams v. United States\" (1919), he regarded the United States Constitution as \"an experiment, as all life is an experiment\" and believed that as a consequence \"we should be eternally vigilant against attempts to check the expression of opinions that we loathe and believe to be fraught with death.\" During his tenure on the Supreme Court, to which he was appointed by President Theodore Roosevelt, he supported efforts for economic regulation and advocated broad freedom of speech under the First Amendment. These positions as well as his distinctive personality and writing style made him a popular figure, especially with American progressives. His jurisprudence influenced much subsequent American legal thinking, including judicial consensus supporting New Deal regulatory law, and influential schools of pragmatism, critical legal studies, and law and economics. He was one of only a handful of justices to be known as a scholar; \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" has identified Holmes as the third-most cited American legal scholar of the 20th century.\n\nHolmes was born in Boston, Massachusetts, to the prominent writer and physician Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. and abolitionist Amelia Lee Jackson. Dr. Holmes was a leading figure in Boston intellectual and literary circles, Mrs. Holmes was connected to the leading families; Henry James Sr., Ralph Waldo Emerson and other transcendentalists were family friends. Known as \"Wendell\" in his youth, Holmes, Henry James Jr. and William James became lifelong friends. Holmes accordingly grew up in an atmosphere of intellectual achievement, and early formed the ambition to be a man of letters like Emerson. While still in Harvard College he wrote essays on philosophic themes, and asked Emerson to read his attack on Plato's idealist philosophy. Emerson famously replied, \"If you strike at a king, you must kill him.\" He supported the Abolitionist movement that thrived in Boston society during the 1850s. At Harvard, he was a member of the Hasty Pudding and the Porcellian Club; his father had also been a member of both clubs. In the Pudding, he served as Secretary and Poet, as his father did. He enlisted in the Massachusetts militia in the spring of 1861, when the president first called for volunteers following the firing on Fort Sumter, but returned briefly to Harvard College to participate in commencement exercises. In the summer of 1861 with his father's help he obtained a lieutenant's commission in the Twentieth Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry. Holmes's early life was described in detail by Mark DeWolfe Howe, \"Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes – The Shaping Years, 1841–1870\" (1957).\n\nDuring his senior year of college, at the outset of the American Civil War, Holmes enlisted in the fourth battalion, Massachusetts militia, then received a commission as first lieutenant in the Twentieth Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry. He saw much action, taking part in the Peninsula Campaign, the Battle of Fredricksburg and the Wilderness, suffering wounds at the Battle of Ball's Bluff, Antietam, and Chancellorsville, and suffered from a near-fatal case of dysentery. He particularly admired and was close to Henry Livermore Abbott, a fellow officer in the 20th Massachusetts. Holmes rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel, but eschewed promotion in his regiment and served on the staff of the VI Corps during the Wilderness Campaign. Abbott took command of the regiment in his place, and was later killed.\n\nHolmes is said to have shouted to Abraham Lincoln to take cover during the Battle of Fort Stevens, although this is commonly regarded as apocryphal. Holmes himself expressed uncertainty about who had warned Lincoln (\"Some say it was an enlisted man who shouted at Lincoln; others suggest it was General Wright who brusquely ordered Lincoln to safety. But for a certainty, the 6 foot 4 inch Lincoln, in frock coat and top hat, stood peering through field glasses from behind a parapet at the onrushing rebels...\") and other sources state he likely was not present on the day Lincoln visited Fort Stevens.\n\nHolmes received a brevet (honorary) promotion to colonel in recognition of his services during the war. He retired to his home in Boston after his three-year enlistment ended in 1864, weary and ill, his regiment disbanded.\n\nIn the summer of 1864, Holmes returned to the family home in Boston, wrote poetry, and debated philosophy with his friend William James, pursuing his debate with philosophic idealism, and considered reenlisting. But by the fall, when it became clear that the war would soon end, Holmes enrolled in Harvard Law School, \"kicked into the law\" by his father, as he later recalled. He attended lectures there for a single year, reading extensively in theoretical works, and then clerked for a year in his cousin Robert Morse's office. He was admitted to the bar in 1866, and after a long visit to London, to complete his education, went into law practice in Boston. He joined a small firm, and in 1872 married a childhood friend, Fanny Bowditch Dixwell, buying a farm in Mattapoisett, Massachusetts, the following year. Their marriage lasted until her death on April 30, 1929. They never had children together. They did adopt and raise an orphaned cousin, Dorothy Upham. Fanny disliked Beacon Hill society, and devoted herself to embroidery. She was described as devoted, witty, wise, tactful, and perceptive.\n\nWhenever he could, Holmes visited London during the social season of spring and summer, and during the years of his work as a lawyer and judge in Boston, he formed romantic friendships with English women of the nobility, with whom he corresponded while at home in the United States. The most important of these was his friendship with the Anglo-Irish Clare Castletown, the Lady Castletown, whose family estate in Ireland, Doneraile Court, he visited several times, and with whom he may have had a brief affair. He formed his closest intellectual friendships with British men, and became one of the founders of what was soon called the \"sociological\" school of jurisprudence in Great Britain, followed a generation later by the \"legal realist\" school in America.\n\nHolmes practiced admiralty law and commercial law in Boston for fifteen years. It was during this time that he did his principal scholarly work, serving as an editor of the new American Law Review, reporting decisions of state supreme courts, and preparing a new edition of Kent's \"Commentaries\", which served practitioners as a compendium of case law, at a time when official reports were scarce and difficult to obtain. He summarized his hard-won understanding in a series of lectures, collected and published as \"The Common Law\" in 1881.\n\n\"The Common Law\" has been continuously in print since 1881, and remains an important contribution to jurisprudence. The book also remains controversial, for Holmes begins by rejecting various kinds of formalism in law. In his earlier writings he had expressly denied the utilitarian view that law was a set of commands of the sovereign, rules of conduct that became legal duties. He rejected as well the views of the German idealist philosophers, whose views were then widely held, and the philosophy taught at Harvard, that the opinions of judges could be harmonized in a purely logical system. In the opening paragraphs of the book, he famously summarized his own view of the history of the common law:\n\n\"The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience. The felt necessities of the time, the prevalent moral and political theories, intuitions of public policy, avowed or unconscious, and even the prejudices which judges share with their fellow-men, have had a good deal more to do than syllogism in determining the rules by which men should be governed. The law embodies the story of a nation's development through many centuries, and it cannot be dealt with as if it contained only the axioms and corollaries of a book of mathematics.\"\n\nIn the book, Holmes set forth his view that the only source of law, properly speaking, was a judicial decision enforced by the state. Judges decided cases on the facts, and then wrote opinions afterward presenting a rationale for their decision. The true basis of the decision was often an \"inarticulate major premise\", however. A judge was obliged to choose between contending legal arguments, each posed in absolute terms, and the true basis of his decision was sometimes drawn from outside the law, when precedents were lacking or were evenly divided.\n\nThe common law evolves because civilized society evolves, and judges share the common preconceptions of the governing class. These views endeared Holmes to the later advocates of legal realism, and made him one of the early founders of law and economics jurisprudence. \"The Common Law\" is the only major scholarly work written by a practicing attorney. Holmes famously contrasted his own scholarship with the abstract doctrines of Christopher Columbus Langdell, dean of Harvard Law School, who viewed the common law as a self-enclosed set of doctrines. Holmes viewed Langdell's work as akin to the German philosophic idealism he had for so long resisted, opposing it with his own scientific materialism.\n\nHolmes was considered for a federal court judgeship in 1878 by President Rutherford B. Hayes, but Massachusetts Senator George Frisbie Hoar persuaded Hayes to nominate another candidate. In the fall of 1882, Holmes became a professor at Harvard Law School, accepting an endowed professorship which had been created for him, largely through the efforts of Louis D. Brandeis. On Friday December 8, 1882, Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts associate justice Otis Lord decided to resign, however, giving outgoing Republican governor John Davis Long a chance to appoint his successor, if it could be done before the Massachusetts Governor's Council adjourned at 3 pm. Holmes' partner George Shattuck proposed him for the vacancy, Holmes quickly agreed, and there being no objection by the Council, took the oath of office on December 15, 1882. His resignation, after only a few weeks and without notice, was resented by the law school faculty, giving rise to persisting estrangement. On August 2, 1899, Holmes became Chief Justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court following the death of Walbridge A. Field.\n\nDuring his service on the Massachusetts court, Holmes continued to develop and apply his views of the common law, usually following precedent faithfully. He issued few constitutional opinions in these years, but carefully developed the principles of free expression as a common-law doctrine. He departed from precedent to recognize workers' right to organize trade unions and to strike, as long as no violence was involved, and coercion was not exerted through impermissible means such as secondary boycotts, stating in his opinions that fundamental fairness required that workers be allowed to combine to compete on an equal footing with employers. He continued to give speeches and to write articles that added to or extended his work on the common law, most notably \"Privilege, Malice and Intent\", in which he presented his view of the pragmatic basis of the common-law privileges extended to speech and the press, which could be defeated by a showing of malice, or of specific intent to harm. This argument would later be incorporated into his famous opinions concerning the First Amendment.\n\nHe also published an address, \"The Path of the Law\", in which he enlarged upon his view of the law from the perspective of a practitioner concerned for the interests of his client, who might be a bad man unconcerned with moral absolutes.\n\nOn August 11, 1902, President Theodore Roosevelt nominated Holmes to a seat on the United States Supreme Court vacated by Justice Horace Gray, who had retired in July 1902 as a result of illness. The nomination was made on the recommendation of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, the junior senator from Massachusetts, but was opposed by the senior senator and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, George Frisbie Hoar. Hoar was a strenuous opponent of imperialism, and the legality of the annexation of Puerto Rico and the Philippines was expected to come before the Court. Lodge, like Roosevelt, was a strong supporter of imperialism, which Holmes was expected to support as well. As a result of Hoar's opposition, there was a delay in the vote for confirmation, but on December 2, 1902, Roosevelt resubmitted the nomination and Holmes was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate on December 4, receiving his commission the same day. On the bench, Holmes did vote to support the administration's position favoring the annexation of former Spanish colonies in the \"Insular Cases\". However, he later disappointed Roosevelt by dissenting in \"Northern Securities Co. v. United States\", a major antitrust prosecution; the majority of the court, however, did rule against Holmes and sided with Theodore Roosevelt's belief that Northern Securities violated the Sherman Antitrust Act. The dissent by Holmes permanently damaged his formerly close relationship with Theodore Roosevelt.\nHolmes was known for his pithy, short, and frequently quoted opinions. In more than twenty-nine years on the Supreme Court bench, he ruled on cases spanning the whole range of federal law. He is remembered for prescient opinions on topics as widely separated as copyright, the law of contempt, the antitrust status of professional baseball, and the oath required for citizenship. Holmes, like most of his contemporaries, viewed the Bill of Rights as codifying privileges obtained over the centuries in English and American common law, and was able to establish that view in numerous opinions of the Court. He is considered one of the greatest judges in American history, and embodies for many the traditions of the common law, which are now challenged by Originalists who insist the text of the Constitution trumps any common law precedents that depart from the original understanding of its meaning.\n\nFrom Taft's departure on February 3, 1930 until Charles Evans Hughes took office on February 24, 1930, Holmes briefly acted as the Chief Justice and presided over court sessions.\n\nBeginning with his first opinion for the Court in \"Otis v. Parker,\" Holmes declared that \"due process of law,\" the fundamental principle of fairness, protected people from unreasonable legislation but was limited only to those fundamental principles enshrined in the common law and did not protect most economic interests.\n\nIn a series of opinions surrounding the World War I Espionage Act of 1917 and the Sedition Act of 1918, he held that the freedom of expression guaranteed by federal and state constitutions simply declared a common-law privilege for speech and the press, even when those expressions caused injury, but that privilege would be defeated by a showing of malice, or intent to do harm. Holmes came to write three unanimous opinions for the Supreme Court that arose from prosecutions under the 1917 Espionage Act because in an earlier case, Baltzer v. United States, he had circulated a powerfully expressed dissent, when the majority had voted to uphold a conviction of immigrant socialists, who had circulated a petition criticizing the draft. Apparently learning that he was likely to publish this dissent, the Government (perhaps alerted by Justice Louis D. Brandeis, newly appointed by President Woodrow Wilson) abandoned the case, and it was dismissed by the Court. The Chief Justice then asked Holmes to write opinions in which they could be unanimous, upholding convictions in three similar cases, where there were jury findings that speeches or leaflets were published with an intent to obstruct the draft, a crime under the 1917 law. Although there was no evidence that the attempts had succeeded, Holmes held for a unanimous Court that an attempt, purely by language, could be prosecuted in cases where the expression, in the circumstances in which it was uttered, posed a \"clear and present danger\" of causing some harm that the legislature had properly forbidden. In \"Schenck v. United States\", Holmes announced this doctrine for a unanimous Court, famously declaring that the First Amendment could not be understood to provide an absolute right, and would not protect a person \"falsely shouting fire in a theater and causing a panic.\" Although much criticized, \"Schenck\" remains an important precedent, and still governs cases in which expressions are intended to cause harm, or threaten to cause imminent lawless action.\n\nLater that year, however, in \"Abrams v. United States\", Holmes was again in dissent. The Wilson Administration was vigorously prosecuting those suspected of sympathies with the recent Russian Revolution, as well as opponents of the war against Germany. The defendants in this case were socialists and anarchists, recent immigrants from Russia who opposed the apparent efforts of the United States to intervene in the Russian Civil War. They were charged with violations of the 1918 amendments to the Espionage Act which were known as the Sedition Act of 1918, and which purported to make criticisms of the government and the war effort a crime. Abrams and his co-defendants were charged with distributing leaflets that in Yiddish called for a \"general strike\" to protest the US intervention in Russia. A majority of the Court voted to uphold the convictions and sentences of ten and twenty years, to be followed by deportation. Holmes was moved to dissent. The majority claimed to be following the precedents already set in Schenck and the companion cases in which Holmes had written for the Court, but Holmes insisted that the defendants' leaflets neither threatened to cause any harm, nor showed the specific intent to hinder the war effort. Holmes condemned the Wilson Administration's prosecution, and its insistence on draconian sentences for the defendants in passionate language: \"Even if I am technically wrong [regarding the defendants' intent] and enough can be squeezed from these poor and puny anonymities to turn the color of legal litmus paper ... the most nominal punishment seems to be all that possibly could be inflicted, unless the defendants are to be made to suffer, not for what the indictment alleges, but for the creed that they avow... \" Holmes then went on to explain the importance of freedom of thought in a democracy:\n\nIn writing this dissent, Holmes may have been influenced by Zechariah Chafee's article \"Freedom of Speech in War Time\". Chafee had criticized Holmes's opinion in \"Schenck\" for failing to express in more detail and more clearly the common-law doctrines upon which he relied. In his Abrams dissent, Holmes did elaborate somewhat on the decision in \"Schenck\", roughly along the lines that Chafee had suggested. Although Holmes evidently believed that he was adhering to his own precedent, some later commentators accused Holmes of inconsistency, even of seeking to curry favor with his young admirers. In \"Abrams\", the majority opinion did rely on the clear-and-present-danger formulation of \"Schenck\", claiming that the leaflets showed the necessary intent, and ignoring the point that they were unlikely to have any effect. In later opinions, the Supreme Court departed from this line of reasoning where the validity of a statute was in question, adopting the principle that a legislature could properly declare that some forms of speech posed a clear and present danger, regardless of the circumstances in which they were uttered. Holmes continued to dissent.\n\nIn 1920, in the case \"Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States\", Holmes ruled that any evidence obtained, even indirectly, from an illegal search was inadmissible in court. He reasoned that otherwise, police would have an incentive to circumvent the Fourth Amendment to obtain derivatives of the illegally obtained evidence, so any evidence resulting from this must be discouraged. This later became known as the \"fruit of the poisonous tree\".\n\nIn 1927, Holmes wrote the 8–1 majority opinion in \"Buck v. Bell\" case that upheld the Virginia Sterilization Act of 1924 and the forced sterilization of Carrie Buck who was claimed to be mentally defective.\nAlthough later scholarship has shown the suit was collusive, and Carrie Buck was probably of normal intelligence, the record before the Supreme Court showed only that she had received a proper hearing in which she was represented by a competent guardian, and was able to press her suit in the federal courts. She apparently had received the procedures required by due process of law in ample measure. The argument made on her behalf was principally that the statute requiring sterilization of institutionalized persons was unconstitutional, itself a violation of what today is called \"substantive due process\". Holmes repeated familiar arguments that statutes would not be struck down if they appeared on their face to have a reasonable basis. In support of his argument that the interest of \"public welfare\" outweighs the interest of individuals in their bodily integrity, he argued:\n\nAlthough the opinion and eugenics remain controversial, the decision in the case still stands. Sterilization rates under eugenics laws in the United States climbed from 1927 until \"Skinner v. Oklahoma\", 316 U.S. 535 (1942). While \"Skinner v. Oklahoma\" did not specifically overturn \"Buck v. Bell\", it created enough of a legal quandary to discourage many sterilizations. \"Buck v. Bell\" was cited as a precedent by the opinion of the court (part VIII) in \"Roe v. Wade\", but not in support of abortion rights. To the contrary, Justice Blackmun quoted it to justify that the constitutional right to abortion isn't unlimited.\n\nHolmes in his earliest writings established a lifelong belief that the decisions of judges were consciously or unconsciously result-oriented, and reflected the evolving mores of the class and society from which judges were drawn. Holmes accordingly argued that legal rules are not deduced through formal logic but rather emerge from an active process of human self-government. He explored these theories in his 1881 book \"The Common Law.\" His philosophy represented a departure from the prevailing jurisprudence of the time: legal formalism, which held that law was an orderly system of rules from which decisions in particular cases could be deduced. Holmes sought to consciously reinvent the common law – to modernize it as a tool for adjusting to the changing nature of modern life, as judges of the past had done more or less unconsciously. He has been classed with the philosophic pragmatists, although pragmatism is what he attributed to the law, rather than his personal philosophy.\n\nCentral to his thought was the notion that the law, as it had evolved in modern societies, concerned with the material results of a defendant's actions. A judge's task was to decide which of two parties before him would bear the cost of an injury. Holmes argued that the evolving common law standard was that liability would fall upon a person whose conduct reflected prudence of a \"reasonable man.\" If a construction worker throws a beam onto a crowded street:\n\nThis \"objective standard\" adopted by common-law judges, Holmes thought, reflected a shift in community standards, away from condemnation of a person's act toward an impersonal assessment of its value to the community. In the modern world, the advances made in biology and the social sciences should allow a better conscious determination of the results of individual acts and the proper measure of liability for them. This belief in the pronouncements of science concerning social welfare, although he later doubted its applicability to law in many cases, accounts for his enthusiastic endorsement of eugenics in his writings, and his opinion in the case of \"Buck v. Bell\".\n\nIn 1881, in \"The Common Law\", Holmes brought together into a coherent whole his earlier articles and lectures concerning the history of the common law, judicial decisions in England and the United States, which he interpreted from the perspective of a practicing lawyer. What counted as law, to a lawyer, was what judges did in particular cases. Law was what the state would enforce, through violence if necessary; echoes of his experience in the Civil War were always present in his writings. Judges decided where and when the force of the state would be brought to bear, and judges in the modern world tended to consult facts and consequences when deciding what conduct to punish. The decisions of judges, viewed over time, determined the rules of conduct, the legal duties, by which all were bound. Judges did not and should not consult any external system of morality, certainly not a system imposed by the Deity.\n\nHolmes therefore brought himself into constant conflict with scholars who believed that legal duties rested upon \"natural law,\" a moral order of the kind invoked by Christian theologians and other philosophic idealists. He believed instead \"that men make their own laws; that these laws do not flow from some mysterious omnipresence in the sky, and that judges are not independent mouthpieces of the infinite...\" \"The common law is not a brooding omnipresence in the sky...\" Rather than a set of abstract, rational, mathematical, or in any way unworldly set of principles, Holmes said that, \"[T]he prophecies of what the courts will do in fact, and nothing more pretentious, are what I mean by the law.\"\n\nHis belief that law, properly speaking, was a set of generalizations from what judges had done in similar cases, determined his view of the Constitution of the United States. As a justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, Holmes rejected the argument that the text of the Constitution should be applied directly to cases that came before the court, as if it were a statute. He shared with most of his fellow judges the belief that the Constitution carried forward principles derived from the common law, principles that continued to evolve in American courts. The text of the Constitution itself, as originally understood, was not a set of rules, but only a directive to courts to consider the body of the common law when deciding cases that arose under the Constitution. It followed that constitutional principles adopted from the common law were evolving, as the law itself evolved: \"A word [in the Constitution] is not a crystal, transparent and unchanged, but the skin of a living thought...\" \"The provisions of the Constitution are not mathematical formulas that have their essence in form, they are organic, living institutions transplanted from English soil. Their significance is vital, not formal; it is to be gathered not simply by taking the words and a dictionary but by considering their origin and the line of their growth.\"\n\nHolmes also insisted on the separation of \"ought\" and \"is,\" which are obstacles in understanding the realities of the law. \"The law is full of phraseology drawn from morals, and talks about \"rights\" and \"duties\", \"malice\", \"intent\", and \"negligence\" – and nothing is easier in legal reasoning than to take these words in their moral sense.\" \"Therefore nothing but confusion can result from assuming that the rights of man in a moral sense are equally rights in the sense of the Constitution and the law.\" Holmes said, \"I think our morally tinted words have caused a great deal of confused thinking.\"\n\nNevertheless, in rejecting morality as a form of natural law outside of human enactments, and superior to them, Holmes was not rejecting moral principles that were the \"result\" of enforceable law. \"The law is the witness and external deposit of our moral life. Its history is the history of the moral development of the race. The practice of it, in spite of popular jests, tends to make good citizens and good men. When I emphasize the difference between law and morals I do so with reference to a single end, that of learning and understanding the law.\" Holmes' insistence on the material basis of law, on the facts of a case, has led some to characterize him as unfeeling, however. George Washington University law professor Jeffrey Rosen summarized Holmes' views this way: \"Holmes was a cold and brutally cynical man who had contempt for the masses and for the progressive laws he voted to uphold.\"\n\nAlthough Holmes did not dissent frequently – during his 29 years of service, he wrote only 72 separate opinions, whereas he penned 852 majority opinions, his dissents were often prescient and acquired so much authority that he became known as \"The Great Dissenter.\" Chief Justice Taft complained that \"his opinions are short, and not very helpful.\" Two of his most famous dissents were in \"Abrams v. United States\" and \"Lochner v. New York\".\n\nOnly Holmes's legal writings were readily available during his life and in the first years after his death, but he confided his thoughts more freely in talks, often to limited audiences, and more than two thousand letters that have survived. Holmes's executor, John Gorham Palfrey, diligently collected Holmes's published and unpublished papers and donated them (and their copyrights) to Harvard Law School. Harvard Law Professor Mark DeWolfe Howe undertook to edit the papers and was authorized by the school to publish them and to prepare a biography of Holmes. Howe published several volumes of correspondence, beginning with Holmes's correspondence with Frederick Pollock, and a volume of Holmes's speeches, before his untimely death. Howe's work formed the basis of much subsequent Holmes scholarship.\n\nHolmes's speeches were divided into two groups: public addresses, which he gathered into a slim volume, regularly updated, that he gave to friends and used as a visiting card, and less formal addresses to men's clubs, dinners, law schools, and Twentieth Regiment reunions. All of the speeches are reproduced in the third volume of \"The Collected Works of Justice Holmes\". The public addresses are Holmes's effort to express his personal philosophy in Emersonian, poetic terms. They frequently advert to the Civil War and to death, and frequently express a hope that personal sacrifice, however pointless it may seem, serves to advance the human race toward some as-yet unforeseen goal. This mysterious purpose explained the commitment to duty and honor that Holmes felt deeply himself, and that he thought was the birthright of a certain class of men. As Holmes stated at a talk upon receiving an honorary degree from Yale:\n\nIn the 1890s, at a time when \"scientific\" anthropology that spoke of racial differences was in vogue, his observations took on a bleakly Darwinist cast:\n\nThis talk was widely reprinted and admired at the time, and may have contributed to the popular name given by the press to the 1st United States Volunteer Cavalry (the \"Rough Riders\") during the Spanish–American War.\n\nMany of Holmes's closest male friends were in England and he corresponded with them regularly and at length, speaking usually of his work. Letters to friends in England such as Harold Laski and Frederick Pollock contain frank discussion of his decisions and his fellow justices. In the United States, letters to male friends Morris R. Cohen, Lewis Einstein, Felix Frankfurter, and Franklin Ford are similar, although the letters to Frankfurter are especially personal. Holmes's correspondence with women in Great Britain and the U.S. was at least as extensive, and in many ways more revealing, but these series of letters have not been published. An extensive selection of letters to Claire Castletown, in Ireland, is included in \"Honorable Justice, The Life of Oliver Wendell Holmes.\" These letters are closer to Holmes's conversation, and cast light upon the style he adopted in judicial opinions, which were often designed to read aloud.\n\nIn a letter to a contemporary, Holmes made this comment on international comparisons: \"Judge not a people by the ferocity of its men, but by the steadfastness of its women.\"\"\n\nHolmes was widely admired during his last years, and on his ninetieth birthday was honored on one of the first coast-to-coast radio broadcasts, during which the Chief Justice, the Dean of Yale Law School, and the president of the American Bar Association read encomia; the Bar Association presented him with a gold medal. Notably, Alger Hiss clerked for Holmes during his last year on the Court. Holmes served on the court until January 12, 1932, when his brethren on the court, citing his advanced age, suggested that the time had come for him to step down. By that time, at 90 years of age, he was the oldest justice to serve in the court's history. On his ninety-second birthday, newly inaugurated President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and his wife Eleanor called on Holmes at his house in Washington.\n\nHolmes died of pneumonia in Washington, D.C. in 1935, two days short of his 94th birthday. In his will, Holmes left his residuary estate to the United States government (he had earlier said that \"taxes are what we pay for civilized society\" in \"Compañia General de Tabacos de Filipinas\" vs. \"Collector of Internal Revenue\", 275 U.S. 87, 100 (1927).) After his death, his personal effects included his Civil War Officer's uniform still stained with his blood and 'torn with shot' as well as the carefully wrapped Minié balls that had wounded him three times in separate battles. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nThe United States Postal Service honored Holmes with a Prominent Americans series (1965–1978) 15¢ postage stamp.\n\nHolmes's papers, donated to Harvard Law School, were kept closed for many years after his death, a circumstance that gave rise to somewhat fanciful accounts of his life. Catherine Drinker Bowen's fictionalized biography \"Yankee from Olympus\" was a long-time bestseller, and the 1950 Hollywood motion picture \"The Magnificent Yankee\" was based on a biography of Holmes by Francis Biddle, who had been one of his secretaries. Much of the scholarly literature addressing Holmes's opinions was written before much was known about his life, and before a coherent account of his views was available. The Harvard Law Library eventually relented, and made available to scholars the extensive Holmes papers, collected and annotated by Mark DeWolfe Howe, who died before he was able to complete his own biography of the justice. In 1989, the first full biography based on Holmes's papers was published, and several other biographies have followed. Congress established the \"Holmes Devise\" and the funds he left to the United States were used to create a garden at the Supreme Court's building, and to publish an edition of his collected works.\n\nHolmes' summer house in Beverly, Massachusetts, was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1972, recognition for his contributions to American jurisprudence.\n\nJustice Holmes was an honorary member of the Connecticut Society of the Cincinnati.\n\n\"Many secretaries formed close friendships with one another,\" wrote Tony Hiss, son of Alger Hiss, about the special \"club\" of clerks of Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. They included:\n\n\n\nExplanatory notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "48099150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48099150", "title": "Oxford University Act 1854", "text": "Oxford University Act 1854\n\nThe Oxford University Act 1854 (17 & 18 Vict c81) is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom, which regulates corporate governance at the University of Oxford, England. It established the Hebdomadal Council, the leading body in the university's administration, stating that most members of full-time academic staff were to have voting rights over it. In the year 2000, the Hebdomadal Council was replaced by the University Council, which is responsible to the Congregation of staff members.\n\nThe Oxford University Act 1854 made substantial changes to how Oxford University was run. It established the Hebdomadal Council as the university's governing body; appointed Commissioners to deal with emoluments and variations in historic endowments; and opened the university to students outside the Church of England, as there was no longer a requirement to undergo a theological test or take the Oath of Supremacy. In practice, this allowed many more Scots to attend the university.\n\nIn 1850, a parliamentary commission was set up to revise the statutes drawn up by Archbishop William Laud. The original Bill proposed by Lord John Russell was much more limited in scope, however dissenters effectively mobilised, threatening to block the bill, unless the theological tests were dropped.\n\nThe reforms curbed the power of heads of colleges, creating a more centralised university authority. Dons no longer had to be in Holy Orders.\n\nThe subject of dropping the theological Test was not new as James Heywood described in the parliamentary debate:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53681531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53681531", "title": "Papua New Guinea Electoral Commission", "text": "Papua New Guinea Electoral Commission\n\nThe Papua New Guinea Electoral Commission is the national institution responsible for elections in Papua New Guinea. It is an independent office established by the Constitution of Papua New Guinea. The commission is headed by an Electoral Commissioner, appointed by the Governor-General of Papua New Guinea on the advice of the Electoral Commission Appointments Committee. Patilias Gamato has been the Electoral Commissioner since November 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "29588001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29588001", "title": "Preparer Tax Identification Number", "text": "Preparer Tax Identification Number\n\nThe Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN) is an identification number that all paid tax return preparers must use on U.S. federal tax returns or claims for refund submitted to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Anyone who, for compensation, prepares all or substantially all of any federal tax return or claim for refund must obtain a PTIN issued by the IRS.\n\nThe Preparer Tax Identification Number was created in 1999 to protect the privacy of tax return preparers. Preparers were required to sign the tax forms they prepared and provide their Social Security Numbers. Starting with the 2000 tax season, the IRS gave preparers the option of using either their SSNs or PTINs. Between August 1999 and August 2010, the IRS issued more than 1 million PTINs.\n\nThe IRS on September 28, 2010 launched a new, electronic PTIN sign-up system accessible through its website at www.irs.gov/taxpros. The new sign-up system requires return preparers to create an account, complete the PTIN application, pay a $64.25 fee and obtain a PTIN, however, this fee is no longer valid and there is no fee to obtain a PTIN today. By creating an account, preparers create a central location where they can receive IRS information. Preparers should receive their PTINs immediately. Even preparers who already have PTINs must renew their numbers if they received them prior to September 28, 2010. If all information matches, preparers may receive the same number. The PTIN must be renewed annually.\n\nEach preparer must have his or her personal PTIN. Sharing a PTIN within an office or firm is not allowed. Preparers can submit a paper application, the Form W-12, but it will take four to six weeks to process. The electronic PTIN sign-up system takes 15 minutes to complete and process. Preparers can view an IRS YouTube video that explains the PTIN sign-up system. \n\nPreparers who do not have social security numbers because of religious objections can complete the PTIN application and submit paper Form 8945, PTIN Supplemental Application For U.S. Citizens Without a Social Security Number Due To Conscientious Religious Objection. They must also include documentation on identity, U.S. citizenship and status in a recognized religious group.\n\nForeign tax return preparers who prepare U.S. tax returns must also obtain and use a PTIN. Foreign preparers who do not have or who are not eligible for social security numbers must complete the PTIN application and submit paper Form 8946, PTIN Supplemental Application For Foreign Persons Without a Social Security Number. Only preparers who have a foreign (non-U.S.) address may file this form.\n\nIn October 2010, the IRS began sending notices to the 1 million PTIN holders it had on record, informing them of the rule changes and urging them to obtain a new or renewed PTIN before preparing tax returns in 2011. However, the agency does not know how many of those 1 million PTIN holders are still active tax return preparers. Nor, does the agency know how many total tax return preparers there are in the United States. It estimates the number at 900,000 to 1.2 million.\n\nReturn preparers who fail to obtain and use PTINs could face penalties. The IRS announced in November 2010 that it would not put the onus of compliance on individual taxpayers by rejecting tax returns without valid PTINs. However, the agency said it would contact those tax return preparers and urge them to comply with the PTIN mandate.\n\nThe use of the PTIN predated by many years the launching of the IRS Registered Tax Return Preparer Program in 2010. Thus, the requirement that a tax return preparer use either a social security number or a PTIN when engaged in the business of preparing federal tax returns pre-dated the requirements that had been imposed by the Internal Revenue Service in its Registered Tax Return Preparer program. \n\nOn January 18, 2013, in a decision in \"Loving v. Internal Revenue Service\", Judge James E. Boasberg of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the Internal Revenue Service lacked the statutory authority to regulate tax return preparers. On February 1, 2013, the Court issued an additional order clarifying that the IRS is \"not required to suspend its PTIN program,\" but that \"no tax-return preparer may be required to pay testing or continuing-education fees or to complete any testing or continuing education.\"\n\nIn 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit affirmed the judgment of the district court.\n\n"}
{"id": "26857092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26857092", "title": "Protected Disclosures Act 2000", "text": "Protected Disclosures Act 2000\n\nThe Protected Disclosures Act 2000 is a piece of New Zealand legislation regarding the disclosures, in the public interest, of serious wrongdoing (sometimes called 'whistle-blowing'). The Act promotes the public interest by setting out procedures to be followed when making a disclosure, and provides protection to employees who make disclosures, in accordance with the Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "1971657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1971657", "title": "R v Sault Ste-Marie (City of)", "text": "R v Sault Ste-Marie (City of)\n\nR v Sault Ste-Marie (City of) [1978] 2 SCR 1299 is a Supreme Court of Canada case where the Court defines the three types of offences that exist in Canadian criminal law and further defines the justification for \"public welfare\" offences.\n\nThe city of Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, hired Cherokee Disposal to dispose of the city's waste. The city built a disposal site 20 feet from a stream which, when filled by the disposal company, resulted in waste seeping into the stream. The city was charged with discharging, or permitting to be discharged, refuse into the public waterways causing pollution pursuant to section 32(1) of the Ontario \"Water Resources Act\".\n\nThe issue before the court was whether the city's offence should be classified as strict liability or absolute liability. The Court of Appeal for Ontario held that the charge required proof of \"mens rea\", which on the facts would acquit the defendant.\n\nIn the judgement written by Chief Justice Dickson, the Court recognized three categories of offences:\n\n\nTo distinguish between these types the Court examines:\n\nThe Court then noted that the dumping offences were of a public welfare nature and were from a provincial statute, thus, were Strict Liability offences and do not require mens rea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "626115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=626115", "title": "Resource Conservation and Recovery Act", "text": "Resource Conservation and Recovery Act\n\nThe Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), enacted in 1976, is the principal federal law in the United States governing the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste.\n\nCongress enacted RCRA to address the increasing problems the nation faced from its growing volume of municipal and industrial waste. RCRA amended the Solid Waste Disposal Act of 1965. It set national goals for:\nIt is now most widely known for the regulations promulgated under RCRA that set standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous waste in the United States.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has published waste management regulations, which are codified in Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations at parts 239 through 282. Regulations regarding management of hazardous waste begin in part 260. As noted below, most states have enacted laws and created regulations that are at least as stringent as the federal regulations. Furthermore, the RCRA statute authorizes states to carry out many of the functions of the federal law through their own hazardous waste programs (as well as their state laws) if such programs have been approved by the EPA.\n\n\n\nArguably the most notable provisions of the RCRA statute are included in Subtitle C, which directs EPA to establish controls on the management of hazardous wastes from their point of generation, through their transportation and treatment, storage and/or disposal. Because RCRA requires controls on hazardous waste generators (i.e., sites that generate hazardous waste), transporters, and treatment, storage and disposal facilities (i.e., facilities that ultimately treat/dispose of or recycle the hazardous waste), the overall regulatory framework has become known as the \"cradle to grave\" system. The program imposes stringent recordkeeping and reporting requirements on generators, transporters, and operators of treatment, storage and disposal facilities handling hazardous waste.\n\nNon-hazardous solid wastes include certain hazardous wastes which are exempted from the Subtitle C regulations, such as hazardous wastes from households and from conditionally exempt small quantity generators. Oil and gas exploration and production wastes, such as drill cuttings, produced water, and drilling fluids are categorized as \"special wastes\" and are also exempt from Subtitle C. Subtitle D also includes garbage (e.g., food containers, coffee grounds), non-recycled household appliances, residue from incinerated automobile tires, refuse such as metal scrap, construction materials, and sludge from industrial and municipal waste water facilities and drinking water treatment plants.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe operation of underground storage tanks (USTs) became subject to the RCRA regulatory program with enactment of the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (HSWA). At that time there were about 2.1 million tanks subject to federal regulation, and the EPA program led to closure and removal of most substandard tanks. As of 2009 there were approximately 600,000 active USTs at 223,000 sites subject to federal regulation.\n\nThe federal UST regulations cover tanks storing petroleum or listed hazardous substances, and define the types of tanks permitted. EPA established a tank notification system to track UST status. UST regulatory programs are principally administered by state and U.S. territorial agencies.\n\nThe regulations set standards for:\n\nThe Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) required owners and operators of USTs to ensure corrective action is completed when a tank is in need of repair, or removal, when it is necessary to protect human health and the environment. It is also recommended that above-ground storage tanks are used whenever possible.\n\nRCRA Subtitle J regulated medical waste in four states (New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island) and Puerto Rico, and expired on March 22, 1991. (\"See\" Medical Waste Tracking Act.) If determined to be hazardous, medical waste is currently regulated by RCRA Subtitle C for hazardous wastes.\n\nThe Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as \"Superfund,\" was enacted in 1980 to address the problem of remediating abandoned hazardous waste sites, by establishing legal liability, as well as a trust fund for cleanup activities. In general CERCLA applies to contaminated sites, while RCRA's focus is on controlling the ongoing generation and management of particular waste streams. RCRA, like CERCLA, has provisions to require cleanup of contaminated sites that occurred in the past.\n\nIn 1984 Congress expanded the scope of RCRA with the enactment of Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (HSWA). The amendments strengthened the law by covering small quantity generators of hazardous waste and establishing requirements for hazardous waste incinerators, and the closing of substandard landfills.\n\nIn 1986, SARA addressed cleanup of leaking USTs and other leaking waste storage facilities. The amendments established a trust fund to pay for the cleanup of leaking UST sites where responsible parties cannot be identified. \n\nThe Land Disposal Program Flexibility Act of 1996 allowed some flexibility in the procedures for land disposal of certain wastes. For example, a waste is not subject to land disposal restrictions if it is sent to an industrial wastewater treatment facility, a municipal sewage treatment plant, or is treated in a \"zero discharge\" facility.\n\nThe bill Reducing Excessive Deadline Obligations Act of 2013 (H.R. 2279; 113th Congress), which made it to the House floor in January 2014, would amend this law \"to remove a requirement that the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) review and revise regulations declared under such Act at least every three years.\"\n\nTreatment, storage, and disposal facilities (TSDFs) manage hazardous waste under RCRA Subtitle C and generally must have a permit in order to operate. While most facilities have RCRA permits, some continue to operate under what is called \"interim status.\" Interim status requirements appear in 40 CFR Part 265.\n\nThe permitting requirements for TSDFs appear in 40 CFR Parts 264 and 270. TSDFs manage (treat, store, or dispose) hazardous waste in units that may include: container storage areas, tanks, surface impoundments, waste piles, land treatment units, landfills, incinerators, containment buildings, and/or drip pads. The unit-specific permitting and operational requirements are described in further detail in 40 CFR Part 264, Subparts J through DD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32596212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32596212", "title": "Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal", "text": "Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal\n\nThe Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal was established by the British government in 1898 to report on:\n(2) If more than one method may be so adopted, by what rules, in relation to the nature or volume of sewage, or the population to be served, or other varying circumstances or requirements, should the particular method of treatment and disposal to be adopted be determined \n\nThe commission convened and re-convened eight times under three different reigns, Victoria, Edward VII and King George V, and remained active until 1912 and in that period published nine reports.\n\n\nThe findings of the commission were to be used to enact legislation to control sewage and manufacturing pollution of water that continued in force up until the enactment of the Water Act 1974. It was the eighth report of the commission that established the 30:20 standard for sewage effluent that remained the most widely used standard in many parts of the world up till the present.\n"}
{"id": "20354108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20354108", "title": "Semtek International Inc. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.", "text": "Semtek International Inc. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.\n\nSemtek v. Lockheed Martin, 531 U.S. 497 (2001), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the claim preclusive effect of a federal judgment on a claim over which subject matter jurisdiction is based solely on diversity is determined by the common law of the state in which the federal district court rendering the decision is located.\n\nPetitioners Semtek International Incorporated filed a complaint against Lockheed Martin in California state court, alleging a breach of contract. The case was removed to the local federal district court due to the diversity of citizenship in the case. The trial judge then dismissed the complaint, writing that California's 2-year statute of limitations made the claim \"barred\".\n\nSemtek International had also filed a claim in Maryland's state court. The court here also dismissed the complaint, but on the grounds that \"the res judicata effect\" precludes this separate claim in a different state. Since another federal court had dismissed a similar action already, Semtek could not proceed in a different court on virtually similar contentions.\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia wrote the unanimous decision of the Supreme Court, reversing the decision of the Maryland courts. Scalia wrote that there was no final \"judgment on the merits\" in the California case and thus the Maryland trial was not precluded. A reading of the appropriate rule could be seen as still permitting other actions. Therefore, Semtek was entitled to a trial before the Maryland courts and the case was remanded with such instructions.\n\n"}
{"id": "168187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168187", "title": "Sentience", "text": "Sentience\n\nSentience is the capacity to feel, perceive or experience subjectively. Eighteenth-century philosophers used the concept to distinguish the ability to think (\"reason\") from the ability to feel (\"sentience\"). In modern Western philosophy, sentience is the ability to experience sensations (known in philosophy of mind as \"qualia\"). In Eastern philosophy, sentience is a metaphysical quality of all things that require respect and care. The concept is central to the philosophy of animal rights because sentience is necessary for the ability to suffer, and thus is held to confer certain rights.\n\nIn the philosophy of consciousness, \"sentience\" can refer to the ability of any entity to have subjective perceptual experiences, or as some philosophers refer to them, \"qualia\". This is distinct from other aspects of the mind and consciousness, such as creativity, intelligence, sapience, self-awareness, and intentionality (the ability to have thoughts about something). Sentience is a minimalistic way of defining \"consciousness\", which otherwise commonly and collectively describes sentience plus other characteristics of the mind.\n\nSome philosophers, notably Colin McGinn, believe that sentience will never be understood, a position known as \"new mysterianism\". They do not deny that most other aspects of consciousness are subject to scientific investigation but they argue that subjective experiences will never be explained; i.e., sentience is the \"only\" aspect of consciousness that can't be explained. Other philosophers (such as Daniel Dennett, who also argues that non-human animals are not sentient) disagree, arguing that all aspects of consciousness will eventually be explained by science.\n\nEastern religions including Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism, and Jainism recognise non-humans as sentient beings. In Jainism and Hinduism, this is closely related to the concept of ahimsa, nonviolence toward other beings. In Jainism, all matter is endowed with sentience; there are five degrees of sentience, from one to five. Water, for example, is a sentient being of the first order, as it is considered to possess only one sense, that of touch. Man is considered a sentient being of the fifth order. According to Buddhism, sentient beings made of pure consciousness are possible. In Mahayana Buddhism, which includes Zen and Tibetan Buddhism, the concept is related to the Bodhisattva, an enlightened being devoted to the liberation of others. The first vow of a Bodhisattva states: \"Sentient beings are numberless; I vow to free them.\"\n\nSentience in Buddhism is the state of having senses (\"sat + ta\" in Pali, or \"sat + tva\" in Sanskrit). In Buddhism, there are six senses, the sixth being the subjective experience of the mind. Sentience is simply awareness prior to the arising of Skandha. Thus, an animal qualifies as a sentient being.\n\nIn the philosophies of animal welfare and rights, sentience implies the ability to experience pleasure and pain. Additionally, it has been argued, as in the documentary \"Earthlings\": \n\nAnimal-welfare advocates typically argue that any sentient being is entitled, at a minimum, to protection from unnecessary suffering, though animal-rights advocates may differ on what rights (e.g., the right to life) may be entailed by simple sentience. Sentiocentrism describes the theory that sentient individuals are the center of moral concern.\n\nThe 18th-century philosopher Jeremy Bentham compiled enlightenment beliefs in \"Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation\", and he included his own reasoning in a comparison between slavery and sadism toward animals:\n\nIn the 20th century, Princeton University professor Peter Singer argued that Bentham's conclusion is often dismissed by an appeal to a distinction that condemns human suffering but allows non-human suffering, typically \"appeals\" that are logical fallacies (unless the distinction is factual, in which case the appeal is just one logical fallacy, \"petitio principii\"). Because many of the suggested distinguishing features of humanity—extreme intelligence; highly complex language; etc.—are not present in marginal cases such as mute humans, young children, deaf humans, and mentally disabled humans, it appears that the only distinction is a prejudice based on species alone, which animal-rights supporters call speciesism—that is, differentiating humans from other animals purely on the grounds that they are human. His opponents accuse him of the same petitio principii.\n\nGary Francione also bases his abolitionist theory of animal rights, which differs significantly from Singer's, on sentience. He asserts that, \"All sentient beings, humans or nonhuman, have one right: the basic right not to be treated as the property of others.\"\n\nAndrew Linzey, founder of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics in England, is known as a foremost international advocate for recognising animals as sentient beings in biblically based faith traditions. The Interfaith Association of Animal Chaplains encourages animal ministry groups to adopt a policy of recognising and valuing sentient beings.\n\nIn 1997 the concept of animal sentience was written into the basic law of the European Union. The legally binding protocol annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam recognises that animals are \"sentient beings\", and requires the EU and its member states to \"pay full regard to the welfare requirements of animals\".\n\nThe laws of several states include certain invertebrates such as cephalopods (octopuses, squids) and decapod crustaceans (lobsters, crabs) in the scope of animal protection laws, implying that these animals are also judged capable of experiencing pain and suffering.\n\nThe term \"sentience\" is not used by major artificial intelligence textbooks and researchers. It is sometimes used in popular accounts of AI to describe \"human level or higher intelligence\" (or artificial general intelligence).\n\nIn science fiction, an alien, android, robot, hologram, or computer described as \"sentient\" is usually treated as a fully human character, with similar rights, qualities, and capabilities as any other character; it is not human, but in this work of fiction it has genuine \"personhood\". \"Sentience\", in this context, is a hypothetical essential human property that brings many other qualities associated with personhood with it, such as will, desire, intelligence, autonomy, humor, aesthetic appreciation and so on. Science fiction uses the words \"intelligence\", \"sapience\", \"self-awareness\", and \"consciousness\" in similar ways.\n\nThis unique definition permits usage that would not make sense outside of science fiction. For example, Commander Data describing his cat as \"not sentient\" in one episode of \"\", whereas the term was originally used (by philosopher Jeremy Bentham and others) to emphasize the sentience of animals (certainly including cats).\n\nScience fiction has explored several forms of consciousness beside that of the individual human mind, and how such forms might perceive and function. These include group sentience, where a single mind is composed of multiple non-sentient members (sometimes capable of reintegration, where members can be gained or lost, resulting in gradually shifting mentalities); hive sentience, which is the extreme form of insect hives, with a single sentience extended over huge numbers of non-sentient bodies; and transient sentience, where a lifeform is sentient of that transience.\n\nThe sentience quotient concept was introduced by Robert A. Freitas Jr. in the late 1970s. It defines sentience as the relationship between the information processing rate of each individual processing unit (neuron), the weight/size of a single unit, and the total number of processing units (expressed as mass). It was proposed as a measure for the sentience of all living beings and computers from a single neuron up to a hypothetical being at the theoretical computational limit of the entire universe. On a logarithmic scale it runs from −70 up to +50.\n\n"}
{"id": "7905254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7905254", "title": "Sources of law", "text": "Sources of law\n\nSources of law are the origins of laws, the binding rules that enable any state to govern its territory. \n\nThe term \"source of law\" may sometimes refer to the sovereign or to the seat of power from which the law derives its validity.\n\nThe perceived authenticity of a source of law may rely on a choice of jurisprudencial analysis. Tyrants such as Kim Jong-un may wield \"de facto\" power, but critics would say he does not exercise power from a \"de jure\" (or legitimate) source. After WWII it was not a valid defence at Nuremberg to say \"I was only obeying orders\", and the victors hanged Nazis for breaching \"universal and eternal standards of right and wrong\".\n\nOver decades and centuries, principles of law have been derived from customs. The divine right of kings, natural and legal rights, human rights, civil rights, and common law are early unwritten sources of law. Canon law and other forms of religious law form the basis for law derived from religious practices and doctrines or from sacred texts; this source of law is important where there is a state religion. Historical or judicial precedent and case law can modify or even create a source of law. Legislation, rules, and regulations are form the tangible source of laws which are codified and enforceable.\n\nIn civil law systems, the sole source is the appropriate code, such as the civil code or the criminal code; whereas in common law systems there are several sources that combine to form “the law”. Civil law systems often absorb ideas from the common law and \"vice-versa\". Scotland, for instance, has a hybrid form of law, as does South Africa, whose law in an amalgam of common law, civil law and tribal law.\n\nA state may comply with international law, it may have a written or federal constitution, or it may have regional legislature, but normally it is the central national legislature that is the ultimate source of law. While a written constitution may seem to be the prime source of law, the state legislature may amend its constitution provided certain rules are followed. International law may take precedence over national law, but international law is mainly made up of conventions and treaties that have been ratified; and anything that can be ratified may be denounced later by the national parliament. Although local authorities may feel that they have a democratic mandate to pass bye-laws,the legislative power they wield has been delegated by parliament; and what parliament gives, parliament make later take away.\n\nIn England, the archetypal common law country, there is a hierarchy of sources, as follows:\n\nInternational Treaties\n\nGovernments may sign International Conventions and Treaties; but these normally become binding only when they are ratified. Most conventions come into force only when a stated number of signatories have ratified the final text. An international convention may be incorporated into a statute (e.g. Hague-Visby Rules in Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971; e.g. the Salvage Convention in the Merchant Shipping Act 1995). The Council of Europe’s European Convention on Human Rights is enforced by the ECHR in Strasbourg.\n\nEuropean Community Law\n\nThe European Union is special example of international law. European nations that join the EU thereby adopt all EC Law to date (the \"acquis communautaire\"), namely: treaty provisions, regulations, directives, decisions, and precedents. Member States become subject to “Brussels” and to the binding precedent decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union (or CJEU) in Luxembourg. However, Brussels may only act and legislate in accordance with the EU treaties, and the CJEU's supremacy applies only in matters of EU law.\n\nLegislation\nLegislation is the prime source of law. and consists in the declaration of legal rules by a competent authority. Legislation can have many purposes: to regulate, to authorize, to enable, to proscribe, to provide funds, to sanction, to grant, to declare or to restrict. A parliamentary legislature frames new laws, such as Acts of Parliament, and amends or repeals old laws. The legislature may delegate law-making powers to lower bodies. In the UK, such delegated legislation includes Statutory Instruments, Orders in Council, & Bye-laws. Delegated legislation may be open to challenge for irregularity of process; and the legislature usually has the right to withdraw delegated powers if it sees fit.\n\nMost legislatures have their powers restricted by the nation's Constitution, and Montesquieu's theory of the separation of powers typically restricts a legislature's powers to legislation. Although the legislature has the power to legislate, it is the courts who have the power to interpret statutes, treaties and regulations. Similarly, although parliaments have the power to legislate, it is usually the executive who decides on the legislative programme. The procedure is usually that a bill is introduced to Parliament, and after the required number of readings, committee stages and amendments, the bill gains approval and becomes an Act.\n\nCase Law\n\nJudicial precedent (aka: case law, or judge-made law) is based on the doctrine of \"stare decisis\", and mostly associated with jurisdictions based on the English common law, but the concept has been adopted in part by Civil Law systems. Precedent is the accumulated principles of law derived from centuries of decisions. Judgements passed by judges in important cases are recorded and become significant source of law. When there is no legislature on a particular point which arises in changing conditions, the judges depend on their own sense of right and wrong and decide the disputes from first principles. Authoritative precedent decisions become a guide in subsequent cases of a similar nature. The dictionary of English law defines a judicial precedent as a judgement or decision of a court of law cited as an authority for deciding a similar state of fact in the same manner or on the same principle or by analogy. Another definition declares precedent to be,\" a decision in a court of justice cited in support of a proposition for which it is desired to contend\".\n\nCompared to other sources of law, precedent has the advantage of flexibility and adaptability, and may enable a judge to apply \"justice\" rather than \"the law\".\n\nEquity (England only)\n\nEquity is a source of law peculiar to England and Wales. Equity is the case law developed by the (now defunct) Court of Chancery. Equity prevails over common law, but its application is discretionary. Equity's main achievements are: trusts, charities, probate, & equitable remedies. There are a number of equitable maxims, such as: “He who comes to equity must come with clean hands”.\n\nParliamentary Conventions (UK mainly)\n\n\"(not to be confused with International Conventions)\" \n\nParliamentary Conventions are not strict rules of law, but their breach may lead to breach of law. They typically are found within the English legal system, and they help compensate for the UK's lack of a single written constitution. Typically, parliamentary conventions govern relationships, such as that between the House of Lords and the House of Commons; between the monarch and Parliament; and between Britain and its colonies. For instance, after the Finance Act 1909, the House of Lords lost its power to obstruct the passage of bills, and now may only delay them. The prerogative powers are subject to convention, and in 2010, the monarch's power to dissolve Parliament was abolished. Britain's tradition with its colonies is that they are self-governing (although, historically, rarely with universal suffrage), and that the mother-country should stay aloof.\nCustoms (England & Commonwealth Nations)\n\nA \"General Custom\" as a source of law is not normally written, but if a practice can be shown to have existed for a very long time, such as \"since time immemorial' (1189 AD), it becomes a source of law.\n\nA \"Particular Custom\" (or \"private custom\") may arise and become a right with the force of law when a person, or a group of persons has from long usage obtained a recognised usage, such as an easement.\n\nBooks of Authority (England mainly)\n\nUp until the 20th century, English judges felt able to examine certain \"books of authority\" for guidance, and both Coke and Blackstone were frequently cited. This old practice of citing only authors who are dead has gone; nowadays notable legal authors may be cited, even if they are still alive.\n\n"}
{"id": "35086131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35086131", "title": "South African company law", "text": "South African company law\n\nSouth African company law is that body of rules which regulates corporations formed under the Companies Act. A company is a business organisation which earns income by the production or sale of goods or services. This entry also covers rules by which partnerships and trusts are governed in South Africa, together with (albeit in less detail) cooperatives and sole proprietorships.\n\nA company has (but is not limited to) three distinguishing features:\n\nA company is separate from its employees, shareholders or members (in the case of close corporations), in that the connection between them is, usually, a mere contract of employment, which may be terminated, leaving both parties to go their own ways. The same generally applies, however, to those businesses which are not companies. There is also, more importantly, usually a separation between the company and its owners.\n\nThe \"locus classicus\" for the principle that a company is a separate entity from its directors and shareholders is the landmark English case of \"Salomon v Salomon\". Shareholders are the owners of one or more units of equal value into which the company is divided and which are usually sold in order to raise capital, either for the company itself or for its founders. A share carries with it a defined set of rights and duties: most notably the right to receive a share of the company's profits and the right to receive a share of the company's assets if the company is wound up.\n\nThe separation between the shareholder and the company has one other important consequence. If a company is wound up, its shareholders will lose their stake, but their separateness from the company will prevent its creditors from pursuing them for fulfilment of the its debts. If, on the other hand, an unincorporated business should go bankrupt, its owners, who do not enjoy such separation, will be liable for its debts.\n\nBecause a company can do certain things—it can acquire rights and duties and assets and liabilities—albeit only through the actions of human beings who are authorised to act on its behalf, the company is itself regarded as a juristic person. It has rights and duties, but not the body, of a natural person.\n\nCompanies range from the very small to the very large. There are no very large businesses which are not companies. (Even the John Lewis Partnership in the United Kingdom, which promotes itself as \"the world's largest partnership,\" is in fact a company.) Part of what allows companies to become so much bigger than other businesses is their ability to raise capital more easily (which is in turn connected to their separation from their owners and their immortality), and the fact of their being better regulated than other businesses, which gives confidence to investors.\n\nIt is important at the outset to appreciate what, exactly, is meant by \"holding a share in a company.\" The fact that a person is a shareholder of Pick 'n Pay does not entitle him to go along to one of its branches and leave it with an unpaid-for basket of groceries in his possession. His share in Pick 'n Pay does not take the form of its stock.\n\nShareholders are the owners of one or more units of equal value into which the company is divided and which, usually, have been sold in order to raise money either for the company itself or for its founders.\n\nBefore the Industrial Revolution, companies were a relatively rare business form. Until 1844, there was no comprehensive legislation governing companies, so that they had to be incorporated by a specific Act of Parliament, or by the granting of a royal charter in Europe. Such was the case with the British East India Company in 1600 and the Dutch East India Company in 1602.\n\nThe Joint Stock Companies Act 1844 was the first piece of legislation which would be recognised as modern company law, but it was fairly limited in scope. The concept of limited liability, for instance, was not considered. This omission was remedied by the Joint Stock Companies Act 1856, which also introduced the suffix \"Ltd\" to the company name. It is still in use today.\n\nThe first South African company legislation was the Companies Act of 1926, which was based on the Transvaal Companies Act, which was in turn based on the British Companies (Consolidation) Act 1908. The next major South African legislation in this area was the Companies Act of 1973, which remained in force until 31 April 2011.\n\nThe 1973 Act had over the years been amended on numerous occasions to bring it up to date; it had as a consequence, like the Income Tax Act, become unwieldy. Changes in society, and in the way the international community expects businesses to operate, also demanded the introduction of new concepts like stakeholder rights and corporate governance. The 1973 Act was seen as unnecessarily rigid; a more business-friendly approach was demanded, which would encourage entrepreneurship and thereby economic and employment growth. These factors combined to spur the enactment of new legislation.\n\nThe process of drafting the new Act was strife-ridden and \"messy,\" with the result that the Act which was passed by parliament, and then assented to by the President in April 2009, was found to contain numerous obvious flaws. After the ensuing uprorar, work began immediately on amending the Act, which had not yet come into force.\n\nThe result was the Companies Amendment Bill, which was introduced into the National Assembly on 27 October 2010, and which amended about half of the Act's 225 sections. A further Amendment Bill, with further corrections and changes, was published on 15 March 2011.\n\nThe Act was widely expected to come into force on 1 April 2011, but in fact did so only on 1 May 2011. (The exception to this was Chapter XIV, which is to come into force at a later date, still to be decided.)\n\nThe types of companies provided for and regulated by the new Act are set out in sections 8 and 11(3)(c). Broadly speaking, they comprise external companies, non-profit companies and profit companies, in which last are included state-owned companies, private companies, personal liability companies and public companies. The old distinction between \"widely held companies\" and \"limited interest companies,\" introduced by section 6 of the Corporate Laws Amendment Act has been abolished by the 2008 Companies Act.\n\nThe non-profit company (NPC) is dealt with in Schedule 1 to the Act, and is regarded as a successor to the section 21 company in the 1973 Act. An NPC must be incorporated by three or more persons, and formed for a lawful purpose. That purpose must relate to the public benefit; otherwise it must have an object relating to one or more cultural or social activities, or communal or group interests. These may include the promotion of religion, arts, sciences, education, charity or recreation.\n\nThe income and property of an NPC are not distributable to its incorporators, members, directors, officers or persons related to any of these people (except to the extent permitted by item 1(3) of Schedule 1). All profits are to be applied solely to the promotion of the NPC's main object.\n\nUpon its winding-up, deregistration or dissolution, the remaining assets of the NPC must be given or transferred to another NPC with similar objects, to be determined by the members of the association or, if they fail to do so, by a court.\n\nAn NPC is different from an NPO (non-profit organisation). An NPC may register, but is not obliged to register, as an NPO with the Registrar of NPOs. Organisations which are not companies, and therefore not NPCs (charitable trusts, for example) may also register as NPOs. The difference, in other words, is that NPOs are not limited to companies.\n\nA profit company is a category of company which includes a number of sub-categories. First and foremost, a profit company is incorporated for the purpose of financial gain to its shareholders. It may be incorporated by one or more persons, or by an organ of state.\n\nA state-owned company is a new form of a company which was introduced by and must be registered in terms of the 2008 Act, and which either falls within the meaning of \"state-owned enterprise,\" in terms of the Public Finance Management Act, or is owned by a municipality, as contemplated in the Local Government: Municipal Systems Act, and is otherwise similar to a \"state-owned enterprise,\" as defined above. The name of a state-owned company ends with the expression \"SOC Ltd.\"\n\nA private company must have at least one member. A profit company that is not state-owned, its Memorandum of Incorporation must\n\n\nThe 2008 Act initially proposed retaining the \"(Pty) Ltd\" designation from the 1973 Act. The first Amendment Bill deleted the \"Ltd,\" and the second reinstated it, so that the name of a private company still ends with \"(Pty) Ltd.\"\n\nThe personal liability company is regarded as a successor to the section 53(b) company of the 1973 Act. This is a company\n\n\nThe directors, both past and present, are jointly and severally liable for the contractual debts and liabilities of the personal liability company. The liability of a director is limited, however, to the company's contractual debts and liabilities, and therefore does not include delictual or statutory liability.\n\nThe name of a personal liability company ends with the designation, \"Incorporated\" or \"Inc.\".\n\nA public company is incorporated by one or more persons associated for a lawful purpose. It may raise capital from the general public, and its shareholders enjoy free transferability of shares and interests in the company. There is a compulsory regime of disclosure for public companies.\n\nThe name of a public company ends with \"Ltd.\"\n\nThe following are a few of the differences between public and private companies:\n\n\nExternal companies are those foreign companies which carry on business or non-profit activities within the Republic of South Africa, subject to sections 23(2) and 23(2A). What constitutes \"carrying on business\" was radically altered by the insertion of section 23(2A) with the first Amendment Bill. The result was that the majority of foreign companies undertaking transactions or making investments in South Africa will now not be required to register as external companies.\n\nSince 1 May 2011, it has been impossible to incorporate a new close corporation in South Africa. There are, however, still hundreds of thousands of close corporations in existence. They are regulated chiefly by the Close Corporations Act.\n\nA close corporation is a juristic person distinct from its members. It enjoys perpetual succession, and its members have limited liability. It has the capacity and the powers of a natural person, and is encumbered by a minimal number of formalities. It may be formed by a single person. It does not deal in shares and share capital; instead, there are \"members' interests,\" which are determined as a percentage of ownership.\n\nThere are, with close corporations, no strict rules relating to the maintenance of capital, and they also enjoy flexibility in the arrangement of their internal relationships. There are no directors: All members have an equal say, but they carry the risk of personal liability. The fiduciary duties and duties of care and skill are codified, and the accounting and disclosure provisions are less extensive for a close corporation than for, say, a public company.\n\nThe following rank among the advantages of a close corporation:\n\n\n\nClose corporations are limited to a membership of between one and ten natural persons. The requirements for membership are laid out in section 29 of the Close Corporations Act. To become a member, a person must\n\n\nIn \"Blesovsky v Shipper\", the court held that, in terms of section 29(2)(c) of the Act, the executor of deceased estate is permitted to hold a member's interest in a close corporation only if the deceased held a member's interest at time of his death. A person may cease to be a member in the following circumstances:\n\n\nA member's interest in a close corporation is expressed as a percentage of the close corporation's total financial interest. It does not have to correspond with the percentage of that member's contribution.\n\nThe member's interest is a personal right against the close corporation. It entitles him to a pro rata share in the aggregate of the members' interests, as well as to participate in a distribution of the profits and, on liquidation, the remaining assets after all creditors have been paid. He thus has a financial interest in the failure or success of the close corporation.\n\nIn \"Stellenbosch Farmers' Winery v Distillers Corp.\" is explained the contrast between a mere pecuniary interest and an actual legal right:\n\nThe fact that the shareholder is entitled to an \"aliquot\" share in the distribution of the surplus assets when the company is wound up proves that he is financially interested in the success or failure of the company but not that he has any right or title to any assets of the company.\n\nA member's interest may be acquired either directly from the corporation or from an existing member.\n\nMembers owe fiduciary duties to the close corporation. The Act gives an overview of the fiduciary duties and sets out to define some of them without prejudice to the generality of the expression \"fiduciary relationship.\" Members must act honestly and in good faith, and exercise their powers to manage or represent the close corporation in its best interests and for its benefit. If there is a breach of these duties, the member will be liable to the close corporation for any loss suffered or benefit derived.\n\nAlthough the Act gives examples of the fiduciary duties owed by members, those merely supplement the common-law duties, which remain applicable. In \"Robinson v Randfontein Estates Gold Mining\", the Appellate Division refused to recognise the separate legal personality of a subsidiary where Robinson had attempted to use it as a device for evading the fiduciary duties he owed to the holding company as director. The court held that the subsidiary company was no different from the holding company, because it was a mere device or camouflage to allow Robinson to evade his fiduciary duties to the holding company. In \"Cohen v Segal\", the court held that a dividend may not be declared which has the effect of diverting a portion of the \"corpus\" of the company (or close corporation) to the shareholders. A dividend may, therefore, generally speaking, be declared only out of profits, and a resolution which declares a dividend to be paid out of the capital of the company is \"ultra vires\" the company.\n\nMembers must act with due care and skill. If they breach this duty, they will be liable to the close corporation for any loss caused. The degree of care and skill required is that which may reasonably be expected from a person of the particular member's knowledge and experience.\n\nA sole proprietorship is a single-owner enterprise. Its owner must be a living natural person, but need not have legal capacity. There are certain restrictions, however, for unrehabilitated insolvents.\n\nA partnership is a relationship between people, arising out of an agreement. Cohabiting couples, partners in crime and attorneys supply examples of the word's common usage. In a legal and commercial sense, \"partnership\" refers to an association of two or more persons who carry on as co-owners of a business for profit.\n\nA cooperative is an autonomous association of persons united voluntarily to meet their common economic and social needs and aspirations through a jointly-owned enterprise, democratically controlled, and organised and operated on co-operative principles.\n\nA trust exists whenever someone is bound to hold and administer property on behalf of another, and not for the benefit of the holder.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14222005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14222005", "title": "Timeline of reproductive rights legislation", "text": "Timeline of reproductive rights legislation\n\nTimeline of reproductive rights legislation, a chronological list of laws and legal decisions affecting human reproductive rights. Reproductive rights are a sub-set of human rights pertaining to issues of reproduction and reproductive health. These rights may include some or all of the following: the right to legal or safe abortion, the right to birth control, the right to access quality reproductive healthcare, and the right to education and access in order to make reproductive choices free from coercion, discrimination, and violence. Reproductive rights may also include the right to receive education about contraception and sexually transmitted infections, and freedom from coerced sterilization, abortion, and contraception, and protection from gender-based practices such as female genital cutting (FGC) and male genital mutilation (MGM).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935023", "title": "Trademark", "text": "Trademark\n\nA trademark, trade mark, or trade-mark is a recognizable sign, design, or expression which identifies products or services of a particular source from those of others, although trademarks used to identify services are usually called service marks. The trademark owner can be an individual, business organization, or any legal entity. A trademark may be located on a package, a label, a voucher, or on the product itself. For the sake of corporate identity, trademarks are often displayed on company buildings.\n\nThe first legislative act concerning trademarks was passed in 1266 under the reign of Henry III, requiring all bakers to use a distinctive mark for the bread they sold. The first modern trademark laws emerged in the late 19th century. In France the first comprehensive trademark system in the world was passed into law in 1857. The Trade Marks Act 1938 of the United Kingdom changed the system, permitting registration based on \"intent-to-use”, creating an examination based process, and creating an application publication system. The 1938 Act, which served as a model for similar legislation elsewhere, contained other novel concepts such as \"associated trademarks\", a consent to use system, a defensive mark system, and non claiming right system.\n\nA trademark identifies the brand owner of a particular product or service. Trademarks can be used by others under licensing agreements; for example, Bullyland obtained a license to produce Smurf figurines; the Lego Group purchased a license from Lucasfilm in order to be allowed to launch Lego Star Wars; TT Toys Toys is a manufacturer of licensed ride-on replica cars for children. The unauthorized usage of trademarks by producing and trading counterfeit consumer goods is known as brand piracy.\n\nThe owner of a trademark may pursue legal action against trademark infringement. Most countries require formal registration of a trademark as a precondition for pursuing this type of action. The United States, Canada and other countries also recognize common law trademark rights, which means action can be taken to protect an unregistered trademark if it is in use. Still, common law trademarks offer the holder, in general, less legal protection than registered trademarks.\n\nA trademark may be designated by the following symbols:\nA trademark is typically a name, word, phrase, logo, symbol, design, image, or a combination of these elements. There is also a range of non-conventional trademarks comprising marks which do not fall into these standard categories, such as those based on colour, smell, or sound (like jingles). Trademarks which are considered offensive are often rejected according to a nation's trademark law.\n\nThe term \"trademark\" is also used informally to refer to any distinguishing attribute by which an individual is readily identified, such as the well-known characteristics of celebrities. When a trademark is used in relation to services rather than products, it may sometimes be called a service mark, particularly in the United States.\n\nThe essential function of a trademark is to exclusively identify the commercial source or origin of products or services, so a trademark, properly called, \"indicates source\" or serves as a \"badge of origin\". In other words, trademarks serve to identify a particular business as the source of goods or services. The use of a trademark in this way is known as \"trademark use\". Certain exclusive rights attach to a registered mark.\n\nTrademark rights generally arise out of the use of, or to maintain exclusive rights over, that sign in relation to certain products or services, assuming there are no other trademark objections.\n\nDifferent goods and services have been classified by the International (Nice) Classification of Goods and Services into 45 Trademark Classes (1 to 34 cover goods, and 35 to 45 cover services). The idea behind this system is to specify and limit the extension of the intellectual property right by determining which goods or services are covered by the mark, and to unify classification systems around the world.\n\nIn trademark treatises it is usually reported that blacksmiths who made swords in the Roman Empire are thought of as being the first users of trademarks. Other notable trademarks that have been used for a long time include Löwenbräu, which claims use of its lion mark since 1383. The first trademark legislation was passed by the Parliament of England under the reign of King Henry III in 1266, which required all bakers to use a distinctive mark for the bread they sold.\n\nThe first modern trademark laws emerged in the late 19th century. In France the first comprehensive trademark system in the world was passed into law in 1857 with the \"Manufacture and Goods Mark Act\". In Britain, the Merchandise Marks Act 1862 made it a criminal offence to imitate another's trade mark 'with intent to defraud or to enable another to defraud'. In 1875, the Trade Marks Registration Act was passed which allowed formal registration of trade marks at the UK Patent Office for the first time. Registration was considered to comprise \"prima facie\" evidence of ownership of a trade mark and registration of marks began on 1 January 1876. The 1875 Act defined a registrable trade mark as 'a device, or mark, or name of an individual or firm printed in some particular and distinctive manner; or a written signature or copy of a written signature of an individual or firm; or a distinctive label or ticket'.\n\nIn the United States, Congress first attempted to establish a federal trademark regime in 1870. This statute purported to be an exercise of Congress' Copyright Clause powers. However, the Supreme Court struck down the 1870 statute in the \"Trade-Mark Cases\" later on in the decade. In 1881, Congress passed a new trademark act, this time pursuant to its Commerce Clause powers. Congress revised the Trademark Act in 1905. The Lanham Act of 1946 updated the law and has served, with several amendments, as the primary federal law on trademarks.\n\nThe Trade Marks Act 1938 in the United Kingdom set up the first registration system based on the “intent-to-use” principle. The Act also established an application publishing procedure and expanded the rights of the trademark holder to include the barring of trademark use even in cases where confusion remained unlikely. This Act served as a model for similar legislation elsewhere.\n\nThe oldest registered trademark has various different claimants, enumerated below:\n\nThe two symbols associated with trademarks, ™ (the trademark symbol) and ® (the registered trademark symbol), represent the status of a mark and accordingly its level of protection. While ™ can be used with any common law usage of a mark, ® may only be used by the owner of a mark following registration with the relevant national authority, such as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO or PTO). The proper manner to display either symbol is immediately following the mark in superscript style.\n\nTerms such as \"mark\", \"brand\" and \"logo\" are sometimes used interchangeably with \"trademark\". \"Trademark\", however, also includes any device, brand, label, name, signature, word, letter, numerical, shape of goods, packaging, colour or combination of colours, smell, sound, movement or any combination thereof which is capable of distinguishing goods and services of one business from those of others. It must be capable of graphical representation and must be applied to goods or services for which it is registered.\n\nSpecialized types of trademark include certification marks, collective trademarks and defensive trademarks. A trademark which is popularly used to describe a product or service (rather than to distinguish the product or services from those of third parties) is sometimes known as a genericized trademark. If such a mark becomes synonymous with that product or service to the extent that the trademark owner can no longer enforce its proprietary rights, the mark becomes generic.\n\nA \"trademark look\" is an informal term for a characteristic look for a performer or character of some sort. It is usually not legally trademark protected and the term is not used in the trademark law.\n\nThe law considers a trademark to be a form of property. rights in relation to a trademark may be established through actual use in the marketplace, or through registration of the mark with the trademarks office (or \"trademarks registry\") of a particular jurisdiction. In some jurisdictions, trademark rights can be established through either or both means. Certain jurisdictions generally do not recognize trademarks rights arising through use. If trademark owners do not hold registrations for their marks in such jurisdictions, the extent to which they will be able to enforce their rights through trademark infringement proceedings will therefore be limited. In cases of dispute, this disparity of rights is often referred to as \"first to file\" as opposed to \"first to use.\" Other countries such as Germany offer a limited amount of common law rights for unregistered marks where to gain protection, the goods or services must occupy a highly significant position in the marketplace — where this could be 40% or more market share for sales in the particular class of goods or services.\n\nIn the United States, the registration process includes several steps. First, the trademark owner files an application to register the trademark. About three months after it is filed, the application is reviewed by an examining attorney at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The examining attorney checks for compliance with the rules of the Trademark Manual of Examination Procedure. This review includes procedural matters such as making sure the applicant's goods or services are identified properly. It also includes more substantive matters such as making sure the applicant's mark is not merely descriptive or likely to cause confusion with a pre-existing applied-for or registered mark. If the application runs afoul of any requirement, the examining attorney will issue an office action requiring the applicant to address certain issues or refusals prior to registration of the mark. If the examining attorney approves the application, it will be \"published for opposition.\" During this 30-day period third parties who may be affected by the registration of the trademark may step forward to file an Opposition Proceeding to stop the registration of the mark. If an Opposition proceeding is filed it institutes a case before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board to determine both the validity of the grounds for the opposition as well as the ability of the applicant to register the mark at issue. Finally, provided that no third-party opposes the registration of the mark during the opposition period or the opposition is ultimately decided in the applicant's favor the mark will be registered in due course.\n\nOutside of the United States the registration process is substantially similar to that found in the U.S. save for one notable exception in many countries: registration occurs prior to the opposition proceeding. In short, once an application is reviewed by an examiner and found to be entitled to registration a registration certificate is issued subject to the mark being open to opposition for a period of typically 6 months from the date of registration.\n\nA registered trademark confers a bundle of exclusive rights upon the registered owner, including the right to exclusive use of the mark in relation to the products or services for which it is registered. The law in most jurisdictions also allows the owner of a registered trademark to prevent unauthorized use of the mark in relation to products or services which are identical or \"colourfully\" similar to the \"registered\" products or services, and in certain cases, prevent use in relation to entirely dissimilar products or services. The test is always whether a consumer of the goods or services will be confused as to the identity of the source or origin. An example may be a very large multinational brand such as \"Sony\" where a non-electronic product such as a pair of sunglasses might be assumed to have come from Sony Corporation of Japan despite not being a class of goods that Sony has rights in.\n\nOnce trademark rights are established in a particular jurisdiction, these rights are generally only enforceable in that jurisdiction, a quality which is sometimes known as territoriality. However, there is a range of international trademark laws and systems which facilitate the protection of trademarks in more than one jurisdiction.\n\nIn the United States the USPTO maintains a database of registered trademarks. The database is open to the public. A licensed attorney may be required to interpret the search results. As trademarks are governed by federal law, state law, and common law, a thorough search as to the availability of a mark is very important. In the United States obtaining a trademark search and relying upon the results of an opinion issued by an attorney may insulate a trademark user from being required to pay treble damages and attorney's fees in a trademark infringement case as it demonstrates that the trademark user performed due diligence and was using the mark in good faith. The USPTO internally captures more information about trademarks than what they publicly disclose on their official search website, such as the complete contents of every logo trademark filing.\n\nTrademarks may also be searched on third-party databases such as LexisNexis, Dialog, and CompuMark.\n\nWithin the European Union, searches have to be conducted taking into account both EU Trademarks as well as national trademarks.\n\nClassification systems exist to help in searching for marks. One example is the \"International Classification of the Figurative Elements of Marks\", better known as the Vienna Classification.\n\nIn most systems, a trademark can be registered if it is able to distinguish the goods or services of a party, will not confuse consumers about the relationship between one party and another, and will not otherwise deceive consumers with respect to the qualities.\n\nA trademark may be eligible for registration, or registerable, if it performs the essential trademark function, and has distinctive character. Registerability can be understood as a continuum, with \"inherently distinctive\" marks at one end, \"generic\" and \"descriptive\" marks with no distinctive character at the other end, and \"suggestive\" and \"arbitrary\" marks lying between these two points. \"Descriptive\" marks must acquire distinctiveness through secondary meaning – consumers have come to recognize the mark as a source indicator – to be protectable. \"Generic\" terms are used to refer to the product or service itself and cannot be used as trademarks. (See the KitKat v Cadbury case.)\n\nTrademarks rights must be maintained through actual lawful use of the trademark. These rights will cease if a mark is not actively used for a period of time, normally 5 years in most jurisdictions. In the case of a trademark registration, failure to actively use the mark in the lawful course of trade, or to enforce the registration in the event of infringement, may also expose the registration itself to become liable for an application for the removal from the register after a certain period of time on the grounds of \"non-use\".\n\nIt is not necessary for a trademark owner to take enforcement action against all infringement if it can be shown that the owner perceived the infringement to be minor and inconsequential. This is designed to prevent owners from continually being tied up in litigation for fear of cancellation. An owner can at any time commence action for infringement against a third party as long as it had not previously notified the third party of its discontent following third party use and then failed to take action within a reasonable period of time (called acquiescence). The owner can always reserve the right to take legal action until a court decides that the third party had gained notoriety which the owner 'must' have been aware of. It will be for the third party to prove their use of the mark is substantial as it is the onus of a company using a mark to check they are not infringing previously registered rights. In the US, owing to the overwhelming number of unregistered rights, trademark applicants are advised to perform searches not just of the trademark register but of local business directories and relevant trade press. Specialized search companies perform such tasks prior to application.\n\nAll jurisdictions with a mature trademark registration system provide a mechanism for removal in the event of such \"non use\", which is usually a period of either three or five years. The intention to use a trademark can be proven by a wide range of acts as shown in the \"Wooly Bull\" and \"Aston v Harlee\" cases.\n\nIn the U.S., failure to use a trademark for this period of time will result in \"abandonment\" of the mark, whereby any party may use the mark. An abandoned mark is not irrevocably in the public domain, but may instead be re-registered by any party which has re-established exclusive and active use, and must be associated or linked with the original mark owner. A mark is registered in conjunction with a description of a specific type of goods, and if the party uses the mark but in conjunction with a different type of goods, the mark may still be considered abandoned, as was the case in Lens.com, Inc. v. 1-800 Contacts, Inc.. If a court rules that a trademark has become \"generic\" through common use (such that the mark no longer performs the essential trademark function and the average consumer no longer considers that exclusive rights attach to it), the corresponding registration may also be ruled invalid.\n\nUnlike other forms of intellectual property (e.g., patents and copyrights) a registered trademark can, theoretically, last forever. So long as a trademark's use is continuous a trademark holder may keep the mark registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office by filing Section 8 Affidavit(s) of Continuous Use as well as Section 9 Applications for renewal, as required.\n\nSpecifically, once registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office the owner of a trademark is required to file a Section 8 Affidavit of Continuous Use to maintain the registration between the 5th and 6th year anniversaries of the registration of the mark or during the 6-month grace period following the 6th anniversary of the registration. During this period, a trademark owner may concurrently opt to file a Section 15, Declaration of Incontestability. A mark declared incontestable is immune from future challenge, except in instances where the mark becomes generic, the mark is abandoned, or if the registration was acquired fraudulently. Note, if the Section 8 Affidavit is filed during the 6-month grace period additional fees to file the Affidavit with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office will apply.\n\nIn addition to requirement above, U.S. trademark registrations are also required to be renewed on or about every 10-year anniversary of the registration of the trademark. The procedure for 10-year renewals is somewhat different from that for the 5th-6th year renewal. In brief, registrants are required to file both a Section 8 Affidavit of Continuous Use as well as a Section 9 Application for Renewal every ten years to maintain their registration.\n\nThe extent to which a trademark owner may prevent unauthorized use of trademarks which are the same as or similar to its trademark depends on various factors such as whether its trademark is registered, the similarity of the trademarks involved, the similarity of the products or services involved, and whether the owner's trademark is \"well known\" or, under U.S. law relating to trademark dilution, \"famous\".\n\nIf a trademark has not been registered, some jurisdictions (especially Common Law countries) offer protection for the business reputation or goodwill which attaches to unregistered trademarks through the tort of passing off. Passing off may provide a remedy in a scenario where a business has been trading under an unregistered trademark for many years, and a rival business starts using the same or a similar mark.\n\nIf a trademark has been registered, then it is much easier for the trademark owner to demonstrate its trademark rights and to enforce these rights through an infringement action. Unauthorized use of a registered trademark need not be intentional in order for infringement to occur, although damages in an infringement lawsuit will generally be greater if there was an intention to deceive.\n\nFor trademarks which are considered to be well known, infringing use may occur where the use occurs in relation to products or services which are not the same as or similar to the products or services in relation to which the owner's mark is registered.\nA growing area of law relating to the enforcement of trademark rights is secondary liability, which allows for the imputation of liability to one who has not acted directly to infringe a trademark but whose legal responsibility may arise under the doctrines of either contributory or vicarious liability.\n\nTrademark is subject to various defenses, such as abandonment, limitations on geographic scope, and fair use. In the United States, the fair use defence protects many of the interests in free expression related to those protected by the First Amendment.\nFair use may be asserted on two grounds, either that the alleged infringer is using the mark to describe accurately an aspect of its products, or that the alleged infringer is using the mark to identify the mark owner. One of the most visible proofs that trademarks provide a limited right in the U.S. comes from the comparative advertising that is seen throughout U.S. media.\n\nAn example of the first type is that although Maytag owns the trademark \"Whisper Quiet\" for its dishwashers, makers of other products may describe their goods as being \"whisper quiet\" so long as these products do not fall under the same category of goods the trademark is protected under.\n\nAn example of the second type is that Audi can run advertisements saying that a trade publication has rated an Audi model higher than a BMW model, since they are only using \"BMW\" to identify the competitor. In a related sense, an auto mechanic can truthfully advertise that he services Volkswagens, and a former \"Playboy\" Playmate of the Year can identify herself as such on her website.\n\nVarious jurisdictions have laws which are designed to prevent trademark owners from making wrongful threats of trademark infringement action against other parties. These laws are intended to prevent large or powerful companies from intimidating or harassing smaller companies.\n\nWhere one party makes a threat to sue another for trademark infringement, but does not have a genuine basis or intention to carry out that threat, or does not carry out the threat at all within a certain period, the threat may itself become a basis for legal action. In this situation, the party receiving such a threat may seek from the Court a declaratory judgment; also known as a declaratory ruling.\n\nTrademark law is designed to fulfill the public policy objective of consumer protection, by preventing the public from being misled as to the origin or quality of a product or service. By identifying the commercial source of products and services, trademarks facilitate identification of products and services which meet the expectations of consumers as to quality and other characteristics.\n\nTrademarks may also serve as an incentive for manufacturers, providers or suppliers to consistently provide quality products or services to maintain their business reputation. Furthermore, if a trademark owner does not maintain quality control and adequate supervision in relation to the manufacture and provision of products or services supplied by a licensee, such \"naked licensing\" will eventually adversely affect the owner's rights in the trademark. For US law \"see, ex.\" \"Eva's Bridal Ltd. v. Halanick Enterprises, Inc.\" 639 F.3d 788 (7th Cir. 2011). This proposition has, however, been watered down by the judgment of the House of Lords in the case of \"Scandecor Development AB v. Scandecor Marketing AB et al.\" [2001] UKHL 21; wherein it has been held that the mere fact that a bare license (equivalent of the United States concept of a naked license) has been granted did not automatically mean that a trademark was liable to mislead.\n\nBy the same token, trademark holders must be cautious in the sale of their mark for similar reasons as apply to licensing. When assigning an interest in a trademark, if the associated product or service is not transferred with it, then this may be an \"assignment-in-gross\" and could lead to a loss of rights in the trademark. It is still possible to make significant changes to the underlying goods or services during a sale without jeopardizing the trademark, but companies will often contract with the sellers to help transition the mark and goods or services to the new owners to ensure continuity of the trademark.\n\nWhile trademark law seeks to protect indications of the commercial source of products or services, patent law generally seeks to protect new and useful inventions, and registered designs law generally seeks to protect the look or appearance of a manufactured article. Trademarks, patents and designs collectively form a subset of intellectual property known as industrial property because they are often created and used in an industrial or commercial context.\n\nBy comparison, copyright law generally seeks to protect original literary, artistic and other creative works. Continued active use and re-registration can make a trademark perpetual, whereas copyright usually lasts for the duration of the author's lifespan plus 70 years for works by individuals, and some limited time after creation for works by bodies corporate. This can lead to confusion in cases where a work passes into the public domain but the character in question remains a registered trademark.\n\nAlthough intellectual property laws such as these are theoretically distinct, more than one type may afford protection to the same article. For example, the particular design of a bottle may qualify for copyright protection as a non-utilitarian [sculpture], or for trademark protection based on its shape, or the 'trade dress' appearance of the bottle as a whole may be protectable. Titles and character names from books or movies may also be protectable as trademarks while the works from which they are drawn may qualify for copyright protection as a whole. Trademark protection does not apply to utilitarian features of a product such as the plastic interlocking studs on Lego bricks.\n\nDrawing these distinctions is necessary, but often challenging for the courts and lawyers, especially in jurisdictions where patents and copyrights pass into the public domain, depending on the jurisdiction. Unlike patents and copyrights, which in theory are granted for one-off fixed terms, trademarks remain valid as long as the owner actively uses and defends them and maintains their registrations with the competent authorities. This often involves payment of a periodic renewal fee.\n\nAs a trademark must be used to maintain rights in relation to that mark, a trademark can be 'abandoned' or its registration can be cancelled or revoked if the mark is not continuously used. By comparison, patents and copyrights cannot be 'abandoned' and a patent holder or copyright owner can generally enforce their rights without taking any particular action to maintain the patent or copyright. Additionally, patent holders and copyright owners may not necessarily need to actively police their rights. However, a failure to bring a timely infringement suit or action against a known infringer may give the defendant a defense of implied consent or estoppel when suit is finally brought.\n\nLike patents and copyrights, trademarks can be bought, sold, and transferred from one company or another. Unlike patents and copyrights, trademarks may not remain intact through this process. Where trademarks have been acquired for the purpose of marketing generic (non-distinctive) products, courts have refused to enforce them.\n\nIn 1923, the author Edgar Rice Burroughs registered his fictitious character Tarzan as a trademark; even after the copyright to the Tarzan story expired, his company used ownership of the trademarks relating to the character (which unlike copyrights, do not have a limited length) to control the production of media using its imagery and license the character for use in other works (such as adaptations). This practice is a precursor to the modern concept of a media franchise.\n\nA trademark is \"diluted\" when the use of similar or identical trademarks in other non-competing markets means that the trademark in and of itself will lose its capacity to signify a single source. In other words, unlike ordinary trademark law, dilution protection extends to trademark uses that do not confuse consumers regarding who has made a product. Instead, dilution protection law aims to protect sufficiently strong trademarks from losing their singular association in the public mind with a particular product, perhaps imagined if the trademark were to be encountered independently of any product (e.g., just the word Pepsi spoken, or on a billboard).\nUnder trademark law, dilution occurs either when unauthorized use of a mark \"blurs\" the \"distinctive nature of the mark\" or \"tarnishes it.\" Likelihood of confusion is not required. 15 U.S.C §§ 1127, 1125(c).\n\nIn various jurisdictions a trademark may be sold with or without the underlying goodwill which subsists in the business associated with the mark. However, this is not the case in the United States, where the courts have held that this would \"be a fraud upon the public\". In the U.S., trademark registration can therefore only be sold and assigned if accompanied by the sale of an underlying asset. Examples of assets whose sale would ordinarily support the assignment of a mark include the sale of the machinery used to produce the goods that bear the mark, or the sale of the corporation (or subsidiary) that produces the trademarked goods.\n\nLicensing means the trademark owner (the licensor) grants a permit to a third party (the licensee) in order to commercially use the trademark legally. It is a contract between the two, containing the scope of content and policy. The essential provisions to a trademark license identify the trademark owner and the licensee, in addition to the policy and the goods or services agreed to be licensed.\n\nMost jurisdictions provide for the use of trademarks to be licensed to third parties. The licensor must monitor the quality of the goods being produced by the licensee to avoid the risk of trademark being deemed abandoned by the courts. A trademark license should therefore include appropriate provisions dealing with quality control, whereby the licensee provides warranties as to quality and the licensor has rights to inspection and monitoring.\n\nThe advent of the domain name system has led to attempts by trademark holders to enforce their rights over domain names that are similar or identical to their existing trademarks, particularly by seeking control over the domain names at issue. As with dilution protection, enforcing trademark rights over domain name owners involves protecting a trademark outside the obvious context of its consumer market, because domain names are global and not limited by goods or service.\n\nThis conflict is easily resolved when the domain name owner actually uses the domain to compete with the trademark owner. Cybersquatting, however, does not involve competition. Instead, an unlicensed user registers a domain name identical to a trademark, and offers to sell the domain to the trademark owner. Typosquatters—those registering common misspellings of trademarks as domain names—have also been targeted successfully in trademark infringement suits. \"Gripe sites\", on the other hand, tend to be protected as free speech, and are therefore more difficult to attack as trademark infringement.\n\nThis clash of the new technology with preexisting trademark rights resulted in several high-profile decisions as the courts of many countries tried to coherently address the issue (and not always successfully) within the framework of existing trademark law. As the website itself was not the product being purchased, there was no actual consumer confusion, and so initial interest confusion was a concept applied instead. Initial interest confusion refers to customer confusion that creates an initial interest in a competitor's \"product\" (in the online context, another party's website). Even though initial interest confusion is dispelled by the time any actual sales occur, it allows a trademark infringer to capitalize on the goodwill associated with the original mark.\n\nSeveral cases have wrestled with the concept of initial interest confusion. In Brookfield Communications, Inc. v. West Coast Entertainment Corp. the court found initial interest confusion could occur when a competitor's trademarked terms were used in the HTML metatags of a website, resulting in that site appearing in the search results when a user searches on the trademarked term. In \"Playboy v. Netscape\", the court found initial interest confusion when users typed in Playboy's trademarks into a search engine, resulting in the display of search results alongside unlabeled banner ads, triggered by keywords that included Playboy's marks, that would take users to Playboy's competitors. Though users might ultimately realize upon clicking on the banner ads that they were not Playboy-affiliated, the court found that the competitor advertisers could have gained customers by appropriating Playboy's goodwill since users may be perfectly happy to browse the competitor's site instead of returning to the search results to find the Playboy sites.\n\nIn Lamparello v. Falwell, however, the court clarified that a finding of initial interest confusion is contingent on financial profit from said confusion, such that, if a domain name confusingly similar to a registered trademark is used for a non-trademark related website, the site owner will not be found to have infringed where they do not seek to capitalize on the mark's goodwill for their own commercial enterprises.\n\nIn addition, courts have upheld the rights of trademark owners with regard to commercial use of domain names, even in cases where goods sold there legitimately bear the mark. In the landmark decision Creative Gifts, Inc. v. UFO, 235 F.3d 540 (10th Cir. 2000) (New Mexico), defendants had registered the domain name \"Levitron.com\" to sell goods bearing the trademark \"Levitron\" under an at-will license from the trademark owner. The 10th Circuit affirmed the rights of the trademark owner with regard to said domain name, despite arguments of promissory estoppel.\n\nMost courts particularly frowned on cybersquatting, and found that it was itself a sufficiently commercial use (i.e., \"trafficking\" in trademarks) to reach into the area of trademark infringement. Most jurisdictions have since amended their trademark laws to address domain names specifically, and to provide explicit remedies against cybersquatters.\n\nIn the US, the legal situation was clarified by the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, an amendment to the Lanham Act, which explicitly prohibited cybersquatting. It defines cybersquatting as \"(occurring) when a person other than the trademark holder registers the domain name of a well-known trademark and then attempts to profit from this by either ransoming the domain name back to the trademark holder or using the domain name to divert business from the trademark holder to the domain name holder\". The provision states that \"[a] person shall be liable in a civil action by the owner of the mark ... if, without regard to the goods or services of the person, that person (i) had a bad faith intent to profit from the mark ...; and registers, traffics in, or uses domain name [that is confusingly similar to another's mark or dilutes another's mark]\".\n\nThis international legal change has also led to the creation of ICANN Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy (UDRP) and other dispute policies for specific countries (such as Nominet UK's DRS) which attempt to streamline the process of resolving who should own a domain name (without dealing with other infringement issues such as damages). This is particularly desirable to trademark owners when the domain name registrant may be in another country or even anonymous.\n\nRegistrants of domain names also sometimes wish to register the domain names themselves (e.g., \"XYZ.COM\") as trademarks for perceived advantages, such as an extra bulwark against their domain being hijacked, and to avail themselves of such remedies as \"confusion\" or passing off against other domain holders with confusingly similar or intentionally misspelled domain names.\n\nAs with other trademarks, the domain name will not be subject to trademark registration unless the proposed mark is actually used to identify the registrant's goods or services to the public, rather than simply being the location on the Internet where the applicant's web site appears. Amazon.com is a prime example of a protected trademark for a domain name central to the public's identification of the company and its products.\n\nTerms which are not protectable by themselves, such as a generic term or a merely descriptive term that has not acquired secondary meaning, may become registerable when a Top-Level Domain Name (e.g. dot-COM) is appended to it. An example of such a domain name ineligible for trademark or service mark protection as a generic term, but which currently has a registered U.S. service mark, is \"HEARSAY.COM\".\n\nAmong trademark practitioners there remains a great deal of debate around trademark protection under ICANN's proposed generic top-level domain name space expansion. World Trademark Review has been reporting on the at times fiery discussion between trademark owners and domainers.\n\nAlthough there are systems which facilitate the filing, registration or enforcement of trademark rights in more than one jurisdiction on a regional or global basis, it is currently not possible to file and obtain a single trademark registration which will automatically apply around the world. Like any national law, trademark laws apply only in their applicable country or jurisdiction, a quality which is sometimes known as \"territoriality\".\n\nThe inherent limitations of the territorial application of trademark laws have been mitigated by various intellectual property treaties, foremost amongst which is the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. TRIPS establishes legal compatibility between member jurisdictions by requiring the harmonization of applicable laws. For example, Article 15(1) of TRIPS provides a definition for \"sign\" which is used as or forms part of the definition of \"trademark\" in the trademark legislation of many jurisdictions around the world.\n\nThe major international system for facilitating the registration of trademarks in multiple jurisdictions is commonly known as the \"Madrid system\". Madrid provides a centrally administered system for securing trademark registrations in member jurisdictions by extending the protection of an \"international registration\" obtained through the World Intellectual Property Organization. This international registration is in turn based upon an application or registration obtained by a trade mark applicant in its home jurisdiction.\n\nThe primary advantage of the Madrid system is that it allows a trademark owner to obtain trademark protection in many jurisdictions by filing one application in one jurisdiction with one set of fees, and make any changes (e.g. changes of name or address) and renew registration across all applicable jurisdictions through a single administrative process. Furthermore, the \"coverage\" of the international registration may be extended to additional member jurisdictions at any time.\n\nThe Trademark Law Treaty establishes a system pursuant to which member jurisdictions agree to standardize procedural aspects of the trademark registration process. It is not necessarily respective of rules within individual countries.\n\nThe EU Trade Mark (EUTM) system (formerly the Community Trademark system) is the trademark system which applies in the European Union, whereby registration of a trademark with the European Union Intellectual Property Office (EUIPO, formerly Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs)), leads to a registration which is effective throughout the EU as a whole. The EUTM system is therefore said to be unitary in character, in that an EUTM registration applies indivisibly across all European Union member states. However, the CTM system did not replace the national trademark registration systems; the CTM system and the national systems continue to operate in parallel to each other (see also European Union trade mark law).\n\nPersons residing outside the EU must have professional representative to the procedures before EUIPO, while representation is recommended for EU residents.\n\nOne of the tasks of an EUTM owner is the monitoring of the later applications whether any of those is similar to his/her earlier trademark. Monitoring is not easy and usually requires professional expertise. To conduct a monitoring there is the so-called Trademark Watching service where it can be checked if someone tries to get registered marks that are similar to the existing marks.\n\nOppositions should be filed on the standard opposition form in any official language of the European Union, however, the substantive part of the opposition (e.g. the argumentations) can be submitted only in the language of the opposed application, that is one of the working languages of the EUIPO, e.g. English, Spanish, German.\n\nWell-known trade mark status is commonly granted to famous international trade marks in less-developed legal jurisdictions.\n\nPursuant to Article 6 \"bis\" of the Paris Convention, countries are empowered to grant this status to marks that the relevant authority considers are 'well known'. In addition to the standard grounds for trade mark infringement (same/similar mark applied same/similar goods or services, and a likelihood of confusion), if the mark is deemed well known it is an infringement to apply the same or a similar mark to dissimilar goods/services where there is confusion, including where it takes unfair advantage of the well-known mark or causing detriment to it.\n\nA well-known trademark does not have to be registered in the jurisdiction to bring a trade mark infringement action (equivalent to bringing a passing off claim without having to show goodwill and having a lesser burden of proof).\n\nMany countries protect unregistered well-known marks in accordance with their international obligations under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property and the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (the TRIPS Agreement). Consequently, not only big companies but also SMEs may have a good chance of establishing enough goodwill with customers so that their marks may be recognized as well-known marks and acquire protection without registration. It is, nevertheless, advisable to seek registration, taking into account that many countries provide for an extended protection of registered well-known marks against dilution (Art. 16.3 TRIPS), i.e., the reputation of the mark being weakened by the unauthorized use of that mark by others.\n\nA number of trademark laws merely implement obligations under Article 16.3 of the TRIPS Agreement and protect well-known registered trademarks only under the following conditions: 1- that the goods and services for which the other mark is used or is seeking protection are not identical with or similar to the goods for which the well-known mark acquired its reputation 2- that the use of the other mark would indicate a connection between these goods and the owner of the well-known mark, and 3 – that their interests are likely to be damaged by such use.\n\n"}
{"id": "32734562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32734562", "title": "Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983", "text": "Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983\n\nThe Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983 (the Act) is a prime statute regulating transport activities in the State of Victoria, Australia. Key areas regulated by the statute currently include taxi and hire car services and compliance and enforcement, particularly in areas like safety and public transport ticketing and conduct.\n\nThe Act was once the leading transport statute in Victoria but this is no longer the case as that position has been taken by the Transport Integration Act. Nonetheless, the Transport (Compliance and Integration) Act remains a key transport statute in Victoria particularly in a support capacity to the Transport Integration Act and to safety scheme and other statutes.\n\nThe Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act was initially enacted as the Transport Act 1983 which until June 2010 was the principal land transport statute in Victoria.\n\nThe Transport Act initially established the main land transport organisations in Victoria following major institutional reform in the Victorian transport portfolio in the early 1980s. The Transport Act also contained the key land transport regulatory schemes. However, the development and enactment of the Transport Integration Act 2010 eventually led to that statute becoming the principal transport statute in Victoria, relegating the Transport Act to a secondary role.\n\nIn effect, the major reform activity of the then Victorian Government's Transport Legislation Review led to substantial changes in the directions and style of Victoria's transport policy and legislation. The Transport Integration Act developed by the Review effectively removed the organisational establishment parts from the Transport Act as Victoria's transport agencies were re-established and reformed with cleaner and newer charters under the Integration Act. In addition, the Transport Act was progressively stripped of many of its substantive transport regulation schemes over many years from the mid-1990s to around 2010 due to the development and enactment of a range of stand alone transport regulation statutes, many of them under the auspices of the Transport Legislation Review.\n\nThese two factors combined and the fact that the Transport Act had, unlike the Transport Integration Act, never applied to ports and marine activities and effectively stripped the Transport Act of its pre-eminence.\n\nToday, the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act largely operates as a support statute in the hierarchy of Victorian transport statutes. It forms part of the transport policy and legislation framework in Victoria headed by the Transport Integration Act. As a result, the application of the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act is subject to the overarching transport system vision, transport system objectives and decision making principles in the Transport Integration Act.\n\nThe content of the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act consists of the following -\n\nThis Part contains some formal provisions covering title, commencement and definitions. It also confirms that the Act is transport legislation for the purposes of the Transport Integration Act.\n\nThe Act no longer contains provisions which establish transport agencies. Part 2 of the Act, on the other hand, contains a number of provisions which empower or relate to agencies established under the Transport Integration Act. For example, the Part contains powers able to be exercised by the Director of Public Transport such as powers relating to use and modification of infrastructure. In addition, the Part contains a number of important financial provisions such as the establishment and operation of the Public Transport Fund.\n\nPart 3 of the Act contains few provisions. Those that remain though are important and concern land acquisition and development for the City Loop, regulation making powers and related provisions.\n\nMost of Part 4 has been repealed by other statutes. It does, however, contain a provision about financial guarantees.\n\nPart 5 contains a number of substantive provisions relating to the Chief Investigator, Transport Safety. Included in the Part are special investigation powers for the Chief Investigator, provisions relating to the compilation and issue of reports and a range of miscellaneous provisions concerning gathering and use of information.\n\nPart 6 of the Act containing provisions relating to the taxi industry and other small commercial passenger vehicles including hire cars and special purpose vehicles. The Part represents an anomaly in the structure of Victorian transport legislation as other major transport industries in the State are regulated by special purpose statutes.\n\nThe provisions in the Part are extensive. They require the licensing of taxis and other small commercial passenger vehicles. Requirements are included concerning the mandatory accreditation of taxi industry participants including licence holders, operators and networks. This Part also provides for the accreditation of drivers of taxis, hire cars and buses and, at odds with the rest of the Part, provisions relating to requirements for the preparation of transport plans where special public or private events affect the operation of transport services. Finally, the Act contains a range of inquiry-related provisions which support the activities of the Taxi Services Commission as part of the Victorian Government's current Taxi Industry Inquiry.\n\nPart 7 contains a range of provisions which predominantly concern the enforcement of transport offences. Provision is made for the issue of transport infringements for transport offences but also provides for various powers including name and address and arrest powers. The Part also sets out a number of offences including in relation to dishonesty.\n\nThe Part also contains a number of schemes relating to public transport enforcement. For example, it requires the authorisation of persons who conduct ticketing and conduct enforcement activities on Victoria's train, tram and bus networks. In addition, the Part sets out an enforcement accreditation scheme for passenger transport companies which must be accredited by the Department of Transport before being able to employ or engage authorised officers. The part also contains a number of specific transport offences relating to dangerous conduct or conduct affecting amenity on public transport.\n\nThe final divisions in Part 7 make provision to support public transport safety schemes administered by the Director, Transport Safety for the rail and bus sectors. The provisions provide for the appointment and powers of transport safety officers including by establishing inspection and search and seizure powers. Also included in this area of the Part are a range of provisions conferring power to issue sanctions on the Director, Transport Safety and the courts in respect of breaches of transport safety laws. Sanctions include improvement notices, prohibition notices, enforceable undertakings commercial benefits penalties and exclusion orders.\n\nConsistent with its title, Part 8 sets out a range of miscellaneous and transitional provisions including those relating to the abolition of former transport agencies, service of documents, rail noise, provisions relating to tourist railways, transfer of staff and other sundry matters. A range of detailed transitional provisions were recently added to this Part as a result of the establishment of the Taxi Services Commission and the positioning of the Secretary of the Department of Transport as Victoria's current taxi and small commercial passenger vehicle regulator.\n\nNine of the twelve schedules to the Act have been repealed. Only one is likely to have substantive effect and relates to taxi industry assignments.\n\n"}
{"id": "22107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22107", "title": "Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons", "text": "Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons\n\nThe Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, commonly known as the Non-Proliferation Treaty or NPT, is an international treaty whose objective is to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and weapons technology, to promote cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, and to further the goal of achieving nuclear disarmament and general and complete disarmament. Between 1965 and 1968, the treaty was negotiated by the Eighteen Nation Committee on Disarmament, a United Nations-sponsored organization based in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nOpened for signature in 1968, the treaty entered into force in 1970. As required by the text, after twenty-five years, NPT Parties met in May 1995 and agreed to extend the treaty indefinitely. More countries have adhered to the NPT than any other arms limitation and disarmament agreement, a testament to the treaty's significance. As of August 2016, 191 states have adhered to the treaty, though North Korea, which acceded in 1985 but never came into compliance, announced its withdrawal from the NPT in 2003, following detonation of nuclear devices in violation of core obligations. Four UN member states have never accepted the NPT, three of which are thought to possess nuclear weapons: India, Israel, and Pakistan. In addition, South Sudan, founded in 2011, has not joined.\n\nThe treaty defines nuclear-weapon states as those that have built and tested a nuclear explosive device before 1 January 1967; these are the United States (1945), Russia (1949), the United Kingdom (1952), France (1960), and China (1964). Four other states are known or believed to possess nuclear weapons: India, Pakistan, and North Korea have openly tested and declared that they possess nuclear weapons, while Israel is deliberately ambiguous regarding its nuclear weapons status.\n\nThe NPT is often seen to be based on a central bargain: \n\nthe NPT non-nuclear-weapon states agree never to acquire nuclear weapons and the NPT nuclear-weapon states in exchange agree to share the benefits of peaceful nuclear technology and to pursue nuclear disarmament aimed at the ultimate elimination of their nuclear arsenals. \n\nThe treaty is reviewed every five years in meetings called Review Conferences of the Parties to the Treaty of Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Even though the treaty was originally conceived with a limited duration of 25 years, the signing parties decided, by consensus, to unconditionally extend the treaty indefinitely during the Review Conference in New York City on 11 May 1995, in the culmination of U.S. government efforts led by Ambassador Thomas Graham Jr.\n\nAt the time the NPT was proposed, there were predictions of 25–30 nuclear weapon states within 20 years. Instead, over forty years later, five states are not parties to the NPT, and they include the only four additional states believed to possess nuclear weapons. Several additional measures have been adopted to strengthen the NPT and the broader nuclear nonproliferation regime and make it difficult for states to acquire the capability to produce nuclear weapons, including the export controls of the Nuclear Suppliers Group and the enhanced verification measures of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Additional Protocol.\n\nCritics argue that the NPT cannot stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons or the motivation to acquire them. They express disappointment with the limited progress on nuclear disarmament, where the five authorized nuclear weapons states still have 22,000 warheads in their combined stockpile and have shown a reluctance to disarm further. Several high-ranking officials within the United Nations have said that they can do little to stop states using nuclear reactors to produce nuclear weapons.\n\nThe NPT consists of a preamble and eleven articles. Although the concept of \"pillars\" is not expressed anywhere in the NPT, the treaty is nevertheless sometimes interpreted as a \"three-pillar\" system, with an implicit balance among them:\nThese pillars are interrelated and mutually reinforcing. An effective nonproliferation regime whose members comply with their obligations provides an essential foundation for progress on disarmament and makes possible greater cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy. With the right to access the benefits of peaceful nuclear technology comes the responsibility of nonproliferation. Progress on disarmament reinforces efforts to strengthen the nonproliferation regime and to enforce compliance with obligations, thereby also facilitating peaceful nuclear cooperation.\nThe \"pillars\" concept has been questioned by some who believe that the NPT is, as its name suggests, principally about nonproliferation, and who worry that \"three pillars\" language misleadingly implies that the three elements have equivalent importance.\n\nUnder Article I of the NPT, nuclear-weapon states pledge not to transfer nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices to any recipient or in any way assist, encourage or induce any non-nuclear-weapon state in the manufacture or acquisition of a nuclear weapon. \nUnder Article II of the NPT, non-nuclear-weapon states pledge not to acquire or exercise control over nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices and not to seek or receive assistance in the manufacture of such devices. Under Article III of the Treaty, non-nuclear-weapon states pledge to accept IAEA safeguards to verify that their nuclear activities serve only peaceful purposes.\n\nFive states are recognized by NPT as nuclear weapon states (NWS): China (signed 1992), France (1992), the Soviet Union (1968; obligations and rights now assumed by the Russian Federation), the United Kingdom (1968), and the United States (1968). These five nations are also the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.\n\nThese five NWS agree not to transfer \"nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices\" and \"not in any way to assist, encourage, or induce\" a non-nuclear weapon state (NNWS) to acquire nuclear weapons (Article I). NNWS parties to the NPT agree not to \"receive\", \"manufacture\", or \"acquire\" nuclear weapons or to \"seek or receive any assistance in the manufacture of nuclear weapons\" (Article II). NNWS parties also agree to accept safeguards by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to verify that they are not diverting nuclear energy from peaceful uses to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices (Article III).\n\nThe five NWS parties have made undertakings not to use their nuclear weapons against a non-NWS party except in response to a nuclear attack, or a conventional attack in alliance with a Nuclear Weapons State. However, these undertakings have not been incorporated formally into the treaty, and the exact details have varied over time. The U.S. also had nuclear warheads targeted at North Korea, a non-NWS, from 1959 until 1991. The previous United Kingdom Secretary of State for Defence, Geoff Hoon, has also explicitly invoked the possibility of the use of the country's nuclear weapons in response to a non-conventional attack by \"rogue states\". In January 2006, President Jacques Chirac of France indicated that an incident of state-sponsored terrorism on France could trigger a small-scale nuclear retaliation aimed at destroying the \"rogue state's\" power centers.\n\nUnder Article VI of the NPT, all Parties undertake to pursue good-faith negotiations on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race, to nuclear disarmament, and to general and complete disarmament.\n\nArticle VI of the NPT represents the only binding commitment in a multilateral treaty to the goal of disarmament by the nuclear-weapon states. The NPT's preamble contains language affirming the desire of treaty signatories to ease international tension and strengthen international trust so as to create someday the conditions for a halt to the production of nuclear weapons, and treaty on general and complete disarmament that liquidates, in particular, nuclear weapons and their delivery vehicles from national arsenals.\n\nThe wording of the NPT's Article VI arguably imposes only a vague obligation on all NPT signatories to move in the general direction of nuclear and total disarmament, saying, \"Each of the Parties to the Treaty undertakes to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament, and on a treaty on general and complete disarmament.\" Under this interpretation, Article VI does not strictly require all signatories to actually conclude a disarmament treaty. Rather, it only requires them \"to negotiate in good faith.\"\n\nOn the other hand, some governments, especially non-nuclear-weapon states belonging to the Non-Aligned Movement, have interpreted Article VI's language as being anything but vague. In their view, Article VI constitutes a formal and specific obligation on the NPT-recognized nuclear-weapon states to disarm themselves of nuclear weapons, and argue that these states have failed to meet their obligation. The International Court of Justice (ICJ), in its advisory opinion on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued 8 July 1996, unanimously interprets the text of Article VI as implying that\n\nThere exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control.\n\nThe ICJ opinion notes that this obligation involves all NPT parties (not just the nuclear weapon states) and does not suggest a specific time frame for nuclear disarmament.\n\nCritics of the NPT-recognized nuclear-weapon states (the United States, Russia, China, France, and the United Kingdom) sometimes argue that what they view as the failure of the NPT-recognized nuclear weapon states to disarm themselves of nuclear weapons, especially in the post–Cold War era, has angered some non-nuclear-weapon NPT signatories of the NPT. Such failure, these critics add, provides justification for the non-nuclear-weapon signatories to quit the NPT and develop their own nuclear arsenals.\n\nOther observers have suggested that the linkage between proliferation and disarmament may also work the other way, i.e., that the failure to resolve proliferation threats in Iran and North Korea, for instance, will cripple the prospects for disarmament. No current nuclear weapons state, the argument goes, would seriously consider eliminating its last nuclear weapons without high confidence that other countries would not acquire them. Some observers have even suggested that the very progress of disarmament by the superpowers—which has led to the elimination of thousands of weapons and delivery systems—could eventually make the possession of nuclear weapons more attractive by increasing the perceived strategic value of a small arsenal. As one U.S. official and NPT expert warned in 2007, \"logic suggests that as the number of nuclear weapons decreases, the 'marginal utility' of a nuclear weapon as an instrument of military power increases. At the extreme, which it is precisely disarmament's hope to create, the strategic utility of even one or two nuclear weapons would be huge.\"\n\nNPT Article IV acknowledges the right of all Parties to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and to benefit from international cooperation in this area, in conformity with their nonproliferation obligations. Article IV also encourages such cooperation.\n\nThe third pillar allows for and agrees upon the transfer of nuclear technology and materials to NPT signatory countries for the development of civilian nuclear energy programs in those countries, as long as they can demonstrate that their nuclear programs are not being used for the development of nuclear weapons.\n\nSince very few of the states with nuclear energy programs are willing to abandon the use of nuclear energy, the third pillar of the NPT under Article IV provides other states with the possibility to do the same, but under conditions intended to make it difficult to develop nuclear weapons.\n\nThe treaty recognizes the inalienable right of sovereign states to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, but restricts this right for NPT parties to be exercised \"in conformity with Articles I and II\" (the basic nonproliferation obligations that constitute the \"first pillar\" of the treaty). As the commercially popular light water reactor nuclear power station uses enriched uranium fuel, it follows that states must be able either to enrich uranium or purchase it on an international market. Mohamed ElBaradei, then Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, has called the spread of enrichment and reprocessing capabilities the \"Achilles' heel\" of the nuclear nonproliferation regime. As of 2007 13 states have an enrichment capability.\n\nBecause the availability of fissile material has long been considered the principal obstacle to, and \"pacing element\" for, a country's nuclear weapons development effort, it was declared a major emphasis of U.S. policy in 2004 to prevent the further spread of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing (a.k.a. \"ENR\") technology. Countries possessing ENR capabilities, it is feared, have what is in effect the option of using this capability to produce fissile material for weapons use on demand, thus giving them what has been termed a \"virtual\" nuclear weapons program. The degree to which NPT members have a \"right\" to ENR technology notwithstanding its potentially grave proliferation implications, therefore, is at the cutting edge of policy and legal debates surrounding the meaning of Article IV and its relation to Articles I, II, and III of the treaty.\n\nCountries that have signed the treaty as Non-Nuclear Weapons States and maintained that status have an unbroken record of not building nuclear weapons. However, Iraq was cited by the IAEA with punitive sanctions enacted against it by the UN Security Council for violating its NPT safeguards obligations; North Korea never came into compliance with its NPT safeguards agreement and was cited repeatedly for these violations, and later withdrew from the NPT and tested multiple nuclear devices; Iran was found in non-compliance with its NPT safeguards obligations in an unusual non-consensus decision because it \"failed in a number of instances over an extended period of time\" to report aspects of its enrichment program;<ref name=\"IAEA-GOV/2003/75\"></ref><ref name=\"IAEA-GOV/2005/77\"></ref> and Libya pursued a clandestine nuclear weapons program before abandoning it in December 2003.\n\nIn 1991, Romania reported previously undeclared nuclear activities by the former regime and the IAEA reported this non-compliance to the Security Council for information only. In some regions, the fact that all neighbors are verifiably free of nuclear weapons reduces any pressure individual states might feel to build those weapons themselves, even if neighbors are known to have peaceful nuclear energy programs that might otherwise be suspicious. In this, the treaty works as designed.\n\nIn 2004, Mohamed ElBaradei said that by some estimates thirty-five to forty states could have the knowledge to develop nuclear weapons.\n\n\"Article I\": Each nuclear-weapons state (NWS) undertakes not to transfer, to any recipient, nuclear weapons, or other nuclear explosive devices, and not to assist any non-nuclear weapon state to manufacture or acquire such weapons or devices.\n\n\"Article II\": Each non-NWS party undertakes not to receive, from any source, nuclear weapons, or other nuclear explosive devices; not to manufacture or acquire such weapons or devices; and not to receive any assistance in their manufacture.\n\n\"Article III\": Each non-NWS party undertakes to conclude an agreement with the IAEA for the application of its safeguards to all nuclear material in all of the state's peaceful nuclear activities and to prevent diversion of such material to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.\n\n\"Article IV\": 1. Nothing in this Treaty shall be interpreted as affecting the inalienable right of all the Parties to the Treaty to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes without discrimination and in conformity with Articles I and II of this Treaty.\n\n2. All the Parties to the Treaty undertake to facilitate, and have the right to participate in, the fullest possible exchange of equipment, materials and scientific and technological information for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Parties to the Treaty in a position to do so shall also co-operate in contributing alone or together with other States or international organizations to the further development of the applications of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, especially in the territories of non-nuclear-weapon States Party to the Treaty, with due consideration for the needs of the developing areas of the world.\n\n\"Article VI\": Each party \"undertakes to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament, and on a Treaty on general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control\".\n\n\"Article IX\": \"For the purposes of this Treaty, a nuclear-weapon State is one which has manufactured and exploded a nuclear weapon or other nuclear explosive device prior to 1 January 1967.\"\n\n\"Article X\": Establishes the right to withdraw from the Treaty giving 3 months' notice. It also establishes the duration of the Treaty (25 years before 1995 Extension Initiative).\n\nThe impetus behind the NPT was concern for the safety of a world with many nuclear weapon states. It was recognized that the cold war deterrent relationship between just the United States and Soviet Union was fragile. Having more nuclear-weapon states would reduce security for all, multiplying the risks of miscalculation, accidents, unauthorized use of weapons, or from escalation in tensions, nuclear conflict. Moreover, the use of nuclear weapons in Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, it has been apparent that the development of nuclear capabilities by States could enable them to divert technology and materials for weapons purposes. Thus, the problem of preventing such diversions became a central issue in discussions on peaceful uses of nuclear energy.\n\nInitial efforts, which began in 1946, to create an international system enabling all States to have access to nuclear technology under appropriate safeguards, were terminated in 1949 without the achievement of this objective, due to serious political differences between the major Powers. By then, both the United States and the former Soviet Union had tested nuclear weapons, and were beginning to build their stockpiles.\n\nIn December 1953, US President Dwight D. Eisenhower in his \"Atoms for Peace\" proposal, presented to the eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly, urged that an international organization be established to disseminate peaceful nuclear technology, while guarding against development of weapons capabilities in additional countries. His proposal resulted in 1957 in the establishment of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which was charged with the dual responsibility of promotion and control of nuclear technology. IAEA technical activities began in 1958. An interim safeguards system for small nuclear reactors, put in place in 1961, was replaced in 1964 by a system covering larger installations and, over the following years, was expanded to include additional nuclear facilities. In recent years, efforts to strengthen the effectiveness and improve the efficiency of the IAEA safeguards system culminated in the approval of the Model Additional Protocol by the IAEA Board of Governors in May 1997.\n\nWithin the framework of the United Nations, the principle of nuclear non-proliferation was addressed in negotiations as early as 1957. The NPT process was launched by Frank Aiken, Irish Minister for External Affairs, in 1958. The NPT gained significant momentum in the early 1960s. The structure of a treaty to uphold nuclear non-proliferation as a norm of international behaviour had become clear by the mid-1960s, and by 1968 final agreement had been reached on a Treaty that would prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, enable cooperation for the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and further the goal of achieving nuclear disarmament. It was opened for signature in 1968, with Finland the first State to sign. Accession became nearly universal after the end of the Cold War and of South African apartheid. In 1992, China and France acceded to the NPT, the last of the five nuclear powers recognized by the treaty to do so.\n\nThe Treaty provided, in article X, for a conference to be convened 25 years after its entry into force to decided whether the Treaty should continue in force indefinitely, or be extended for an additional fixed period of periods. Accordingly, at the NPT Review and Extension Conference in May 1995, States parties to the Treaty agreed-without a vote-on the Treaty's indefinited extension, and decided that review conferences should continue to be held every five years. After Brazil acceded to the NPT in 1998, the only remaining non-nuclear-weapons state which had not signed was Cuba, which joined NPT (and the Treaty of Tlatelolco NWFZ) in 2002.\n\nSeveral NPT signatories have given up nuclear weapons or nuclear weapons programs. South Africa undertook a nuclear weapons program, but has since renounced it and signed the treaty in 1991 after destroying its small nuclear arsenal; after this, the remaining African countries signed the treaty. The former Soviet Republics where nuclear weapons had been based, namely Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, transferred those weapons to Russia and joined NPT by 1994 following the signature of the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances.\n\nSuccessor states from the breakups of Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia also joined the treaty soon after their independence. Montenegro and East Timor were the last countries to sign the treaty on their independence in 2006 and 2003; the only other country to sign in the 21st century was Cuba in 2002. The three Micronesian countries in Compact of Free Association with the USA joined NPT in 1995, along with Vanuatu.\n\nMajor South American countries Argentina, Chile, and Brazil joined in 1995 and 1998. Arabian Peninsula countries included Saudi Arabia and Bahrain in 1988, Qatar and Kuwait in 1989, UAE in 1995, and Oman in 1997. The tiny European states of Monaco and Andorra joined in 1995-6. Also signing in the 1990s were Myanmar in 1992 and Guyana in 1993.\n\nAt the time the treaty was being negotiated, NATO had in place secret nuclear weapons sharing agreements whereby the United States provided nuclear weapons to be deployed by, and stored in, other NATO states. Some argue this is an act of proliferation violating Articles I and II of the treaty. A counter-argument is that the U.S. controlled the weapons in storage within the NATO states, and that no transfer of the weapons or control over them was intended \"unless and until a decision were made to go to war, at which the treaty would no longer be controlling\", so there is no breach of the NPT. These agreements were disclosed to a few of the states, including the Soviet Union, negotiating the treaty, but most of the states that signed the NPT in 1968 would not have known about these agreements and interpretations at that time.\n\nAs of 2005, it is estimated that the United States still provides about 180 tactical B61 nuclear bombs for use by Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Turkey under these NATO agreements. Many states, and the Non-Aligned Movement, now argue this violates Articles I and II of the treaty, and are applying diplomatic pressure to terminate these agreements. They point out that the pilots and other staff of the \"non-nuclear\" NATO states practice handling and delivering the U.S. nuclear bombs, and non-U.S. warplanes have been adapted to deliver U.S. nuclear bombs which must have involved the transfer of some technical nuclear weapons information. NATO believes its \"nuclear forces continue to play an essential role in war prevention, but their role is now more fundamentally political\".\n\nU.S. nuclear sharing policies were originally designed to help prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons—not least by persuading the then West Germany not to develop an independent nuclear capability by assuring it that West Germany would be able, in the event of war with the Warsaw Pact, to wield (U.S.) nuclear weapons in self-defense. (Until that point of all-out war, however, the weapons themselves would remain in U.S. hands.) The point was to limit the spread of countries having their own nuclear weapons programs, helping ensure that NATO allies would not choose to go down the proliferation route. (West Germany was discussed in U.S. intelligence estimates for a number of years as being a country with the potential to develop nuclear weapons capabilities of its own if officials in Bonn were not convinced that their defense against the Soviet Union and its allies could otherwise be met.)\n\nFour states—India, Israel, Pakistan, and South Sudan—have never signed the treaty. India and Pakistan have publicly disclosed their nuclear weapon programs, and Israel has a long-standing policy of deliberate ambiguity with regards to its nuclear program (see List of states with nuclear weapons).\n\nIndia has detonated nuclear devices, first in 1974 and again in 1998. India is estimated to have enough fissile material for more than 150 warheads. India was among the few countries to have a no first use policy, a pledge not to use nuclear weapons unless first attacked by an adversary using nuclear weapons, however India's former NSA Shivshankar Menon signaled \"a significant shift from \"no first use\" to \"no first use against non-nuclear weapon states\"\" in a speech on the occasion of Golden Jubilee celebrations of the National Defence College in New Delhi on 21 October 2010, a doctrine Menon said reflected India's \"strategic culture, with its emphasis on minimal deterrence\".\n\nIndia argues that the NPT creates a club of \"nuclear haves\" and a larger group of \"nuclear have-nots\" by restricting the legal possession of nuclear weapons to those states that tested them before 1967, but the treaty never explains on what ethical grounds such a distinction is valid. India's then External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee said during a visit to Tokyo in 2007: \"If India did not sign the NPT, it is not because of its lack of commitment for non-proliferation, but because we consider NPT as a flawed treaty and it did not recognize the need for universal, non-discriminatory verification and treatment.\" Although there have been unofficial discussions on creating a South Asian nuclear weapons free zone, including India and Pakistan, this is considered to be highly unlikely for the foreseeable future.\n\nIn early March 2006, India and the United States finalized an agreement, in the face of criticism in both countries, to restart cooperation on civilian nuclear technology. Under the deal India has committed to classify 14 of its 22 nuclear power plants as being for civilian use and to place them under IAEA safeguards. Mohamed ElBaradei, then Director General of the IAEA, welcomed the deal by calling India \"an important partner in the non-proliferation regime.\"\n\nIn December 2006, United States Congress approved the United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act, endorsing a deal that was forged during Prime Minister Singh's visit to the United States in July 2005 and cemented during President Bush's visit to India earlier in 2006. The legislation allows for the transfer of civilian nuclear material to India. Despite its status outside the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, nuclear cooperation with India was permitted on the basis of its clean non-proliferation record, and India's need for energy fueled by its rapid industrialization and a billion-plus population.\n\nOn 1 August 2008, the IAEA approved the India Safeguards Agreement and on 6 September 2008, India was granted the waiver at the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) meeting held in Vienna, Austria. The consensus was arrived after overcoming misgivings expressed by Austria, Ireland and New Zealand and is an unprecedented step in giving exemption to a country, which has not signed the NPT and the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). While India could commence nuclear trade with other willing countries. The U.S. Congress approved this agreement and President Bush signed it on 8 October 2008.\n\nWhen China announced expanded nuclear cooperation with Pakistan in 2010, proponents of arms control denounced both the deals, claiming that they weakened the NPT by facilitating nuclear programmes in states which are not parties to the NPT.\n\n, Australia, a top three producer and home to worlds largest known reserves, had continued its refusal to export Uranium to India despite diplomatic pressure from India.\nIn November 2011 the Australian Prime Minister announced a desire to allow exports to India, a policy change which was authorized by her party's national conference in December. On 4 December 2011, Prime Minister Julia Gillard overturned Australia's long-standing ban on exporting uranium to India. She further said \"We should take a decision in the national interest, a decision about strengthening our strategic partnership with India in this the Asian century,\" and said that any agreement to sell uranium to India would include strict safeguards to ensure it would only be used for civilian purposes, and not end up in nuclear weapons. On Sep 5, 2014; Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott sealed a civil nuclear deal to sell uranium to India. \"We signed a nuclear cooperation agreement because Australia trusts India to do the right thing in this area, as it has been doing in other areas,\" Abbott told reporters after he and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi signed a pact to sell uranium for peaceful power generation.\n\nIn May 1998, following India's nuclear tests earlier that month, Pakistan conducted two sets of nuclear tests, the Chagai-I and Chagai-II. Although there is little confirmed information in public, as of 2015, Pakistan was estimated to have as many as 120 warheads. According to analyses of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Stimson Center, Pakistan has enough fissile material for 350 warheads.\n\nPakistani officials argue that the NPT is discriminatory. When asked at a briefing in 2015 whether Islamabad would sign the NPT if Washington requested it, Foreign Secretary Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry was quoted as responding \"It is a discriminatory treaty. Pakistan has the right to defend itself, so Pakistan will not sign the NPT. Why should we?\" Until 2010, Pakistan had always maintained the position that it would sign the NPT if India did so. In 2010, Pakistan abandoned this historic position and stated that it would join the NPT only as a recognized nuclear-weapon state.\n\nThe NSG Guidelines currently rule out nuclear exports by all major suppliers to Pakistan, with very narrow exceptions, since it does not have full-scope IAEA safeguards (i.e. safeguards on all its nuclear activities). Pakistan has sought to reach an agreement similar to that with India, but these efforts have been rebuffed by the United States and other NSG members, on the grounds that Pakistan's track record as a nuclear proliferator makes it impossible for it to have any sort of nuclear deal in the near future.\n\nBy 2010, China reportedly signed a civil nuclear agreement with Pakistan, using the justification that the deal was \"peaceful.\" The British government criticized this, on the grounds that 'the time is not yet right for a civil nuclear deal with Pakistan'. China did not seek formal approval from the nuclear suppliers group, and claimed instead that its cooperation with Pakistan was \"grandfathered\" when China joined the NSG, a claim that was disputed by other NSG members. Pakistan applied for membership on 19 May 2016, supported by Turkey and China. However, many NSG members opposed Pakistan's membership bid due to its track record, including the illicit procurement network of Pakistani scientist A.Q. Khan, which aided the nuclear programs of Iran, Libya and North Korea. Pakistani officials reiterated the request in August 2016.\n\nIsrael has a long-standing policy of deliberate ambiguity with regards to its nuclear program (see List of countries with nuclear weapons). Israel has been developing nuclear technology at its Dimona site in the Negev since 1958, and some nonproliferation analysts estimate that Israel may have stockpiled between 100 and 200 warheads using reprocessed plutonium. The position on the NPT is explained in terms of \"Israeli exceptionality\", a term coined by Professor Gerald M. Steinberg, in reference to the perception that the country's small size, overall vulnerability, as well as the history of deep hostility and large-scale attacks by neighboring states, require a deterrent capability.\n\nThe Israeli government refuses to confirm or deny possession of nuclear weapons, although this is now regarded as an open secret after Israeli low level nuclear technician Mordechai Vanunu—subsequently arrested and sentenced for treason by Israel—published evidence about the program to the British \"Sunday Times\" in 1986.\n\nOn 18 September 2009 the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency called on Israel to open its nuclear facilities to IAEA inspection and adhere to the non-proliferation treaty as part of a resolution on \"Israeli nuclear capabilities,\" which passed by a narrow margin of 49–45 with 16 abstentions. The chief Israeli delegate stated that \"Israel will not co-operate in any matter with this resolution.\" However, similar resolutions were defeated in 2010, 2013 and 2014. As with Pakistan, the NSG Guidelines currently rule out nuclear exports by all major suppliers to Israel.\n\nNorth Korea ratified the treaty on 12 December 1985, but gave notice of withdrawal from the treaty on 10 January 2003 following U.S. allegations that it had started an illegal enriched uranium weapons program, and the U.S. subsequently stopping fuel oil shipments under the Agreed Framework which had resolved plutonium weapons issues in 1994. The withdrawal became effective 10 April 2003 making North Korea the first state ever to withdraw from the treaty. North Korea had once before announced withdrawal, on 12 March 1993, but suspended that notice before it came into effect.\n\nOn 10 February 2005, North Korea publicly declared that it possessed nuclear weapons and pulled out of the six-party talks hosted by China to find a diplomatic solution to the issue. \"We had already taken the resolute action of pulling out of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and have manufactured nuclear arms for self-defence to cope with the Bush administration's evermore undisguised policy to isolate and stifle the DPRK [Democratic People's Republic of Korea],\" a North Korean Foreign Ministry statement said regarding the issue. Six-party talks resumed in July 2005.\n\nOn 19 September 2005, North Korea announced that it would agree to a preliminary accord. Under the accord, North Korea would scrap all of its existing nuclear weapons and nuclear production facilities, rejoin the NPT, and readmit IAEA inspectors. The difficult issue of the supply of light water reactors to replace North Korea's indigenous nuclear power plant program, as per the 1994 Agreed Framework, was left to be resolved in future discussions. On the next day North Korea reiterated its known view that until it is supplied with a light water reactor it will not dismantle its nuclear arsenal or rejoin the NPT.\n\nOn 2 October 2006, the North Korean foreign minister announced that his country was planning to conduct a nuclear test \"in the future\", although it did not state when. On Monday, 9 October 2006 at 01:35:28 (UTC) the United States Geological Survey detected a magnitude 4.3 seismic event north of Kimchaek, North Korea indicating a nuclear test. The North Korean government announced shortly afterward that they had completed a successful underground test of a nuclear fission device.\n\nIn 2007, reports from Washington suggested that the 2002 CIA reports stating that North Korea was developing an enriched uranium weapons program, which led to North Korea leaving the NPT, had overstated or misread the intelligence. On the other hand, even apart from these press allegations, there remains some information in the public record indicating the existence of a uranium effort. Quite apart from the fact that North Korean First Vice Minister Kang Sok Ju at one point admitted the existence of a uranium enrichment program, Pakistan's then-President Musharraf revealed that the A.Q. Khan proliferation network had provided North Korea with a number of gas centrifuges designed for uranium enrichment. Additionally, press reports have cited U.S. officials to the effect that evidence obtained in dismantling Libya's WMD programs points toward North Korea as the source for Libya's uranium hexafluoride (UF) – which, if true, would mean that North Korea has a uranium conversion facility for producing feedstock for centrifuge enrichment.\n\nIran is a party to the NPT but was found in non-compliance with its NPT safeguards agreement, and the status of its nuclear program remains in dispute. In November 2003 IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei reported that Iran had repeatedly and over an extended period failed to meet its safeguards obligations, including by failing to declare its uranium enrichment program. After about two years of EU3-led diplomatic efforts and Iran temporarily suspending its enrichment program, the IAEA Board of Governors, acting under Article XII.C of the IAEA Statute, found in a rare non-consensus decision with 12 abstentions that these failures constituted non-compliance with the IAEA safeguards agreement. This was reported to the UN Security Council in 2006, after which the Security Council passed a resolution demanding that Iran suspend its enrichment.\nInstead, Iran resumed its enrichment program.\n\nThe IAEA has been able to verify the non-diversion of declared nuclear material in Iran, and is continuing its work on verifying the absence of undeclared activities. In February 2008, the IAEA also reported that it was working to address \"alleged studies\" of weaponization, based on documents provided by certain Member States, which those states claimed originated from Iran. Iran rejected the allegations as \"baseless\" and the documents as \"fabrications.\" In June 2009, the IAEA reported that Iran had not \"cooperated with the Agency in connection with the remaining issues ... which need to be clarified to exclude the possibility of military dimensions to Iran's nuclear program.\"\n\nThe United States concluded that Iran violated its Article III NPT safeguards obligations, and further argued based on circumstantial evidence that Iran's enrichment program was for weapons purposes and therefore violated Iran's Article II nonproliferation obligations. The November 2007 US National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) later concluded that Iran had halted an active nuclear weapons program in the fall of 2003 and that it had remained halted as of mid-2007. The NIE's \"Key Judgments,\" however, also made clear that what Iran had actually stopped in 2003 was only \"nuclear weapon design and weaponization work and covert uranium conversion-related and uranium enrichment-related work\"-namely, those aspects of Iran's nuclear weapons effort that had not by that point already been leaked to the press and become the subject of IAEA investigations.\n\nSince Iran's uranium enrichment program at Natanz—and its continuing work on a heavy water reactor at Arak that would be ideal for plutonium production—began secretly years before in conjunction with the very weaponization work the NIE discussed and for the purpose of developing nuclear weapons, many observers find Iran's continued development of fissile material production capabilities distinctly worrying. Particularly because fissile material availability has long been understood to be the principal obstacle to nuclear weapons development and the primary \"pacing element\" for a weapons program, the fact that Iran has reportedly suspended weaponization work may not mean very much. As U.S. Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell has put it, the aspects of its work that Iran allegedly suspended were thus \"probably the least significant part of the program.\"\n\nIran states it has a legal right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes under the NPT, and further says that it \"has constantly complied with its obligations under the NPT and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency\". Iran also states that its enrichment program is part of its civilian nuclear energy program, which is allowed under Article IV of the NPT. The Non-Aligned Movement has welcomed the continuing cooperation of Iran with the IAEA and reaffirmed Iran's right to the peaceful uses of nuclear technology. UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has welcomed the continued dialogue between Iran and the IAEA, and has called for a peaceful resolution to the issue.\n\nIn April 2010, during the signing of the U.S.-Russia New START Treaty, President Obama said that the United States, Russia, and other nations are demanding that Iran face consequences for failing to fulfill their obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and that \"we will not tolerate actions that flout the NPT, risk an arms race in a vital region, and threaten the credibility of the international community and our collective security.\"\n\nSouth Africa is the only country that developed nuclear weapons by itself and later dismantled them – unlike the former Soviet states Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, which inherited nuclear weapons from the former USSR and also acceded to the NPT as non-nuclear weapon states.\n\nDuring the days of apartheid, the South African government developed a deep fear of both a black uprising and the threat of communism. This led to the development of a secret nuclear weapons program as an ultimate deterrent. South Africa has a large supply of uranium, which is mined in the country's gold mines. The government built a nuclear research facility at Pelindaba near Pretoria where uranium was enriched to fuel grade for the Koeberg Nuclear Power Station as well as weapon grade for bomb production.\n\nIn 1991, after international pressure and when a change of government was imminent, South African Ambassador to the United States Harry Schwarz signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. In 1993, the then president Frederik Willem de Klerk openly admitted that the country had developed a limited nuclear weapon capability. These weapons were subsequently dismantled before South Africa acceded to the NPT and opened itself up to IAEA inspection. In 1994, the IAEA completed its work and declared that the country had fully dismantled its nuclear weapons program.\n\nLibya had signed and ratified the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and was subject to IAEA nuclear safeguards inspections, but undertook a secret nuclear weapons development program in violation of its NPT obligations, using material and technology provided by the A.Q. Khan proliferation network—including actual nuclear weapons designs allegedly originating in China. Libya began secret negotiations with the United States and the United Kingdom in March 2003 over potentially eliminating its WMD programs. In October 2003, Libya was embarrassed by the interdiction of a shipment of Pakistani-designed centrifuge parts sent from Malaysia, also as part of A. Q. Khan's proliferation ring.\n\nIn December 2003, Libya announced that it had agreed to eliminate all its WMD programs, and permitted U.S. and British teams (as well as IAEA inspectors) into the country to assist this process and verify its completion. The nuclear weapons designs, gas centrifuges for uranium enrichment, and other equipment—including prototypes for improved SCUD ballistic missiles—were removed from Libya by the United States. (Libyan chemical weapons stocks and chemical bombs were also destroyed on site with international verification, with Libya joining the Chemical Weapons Convention.) Libya's non-compliance with its IAEA safeguards was reported to the U.N. Security Council, but with no action taken, as Libya's return to compliance with safeguards and Article II of the NPT was welcomed.\n\nIn 2011 the Libyan government was overthrown in the Libyan Civil War with the assistance of a military intervention by NATO forces acting under the auspices of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973. It was speculated in the media (especially in the Middle Eastern media) that NATO's intervention in Libya shortly after the nation agreed to nuclear and chemical weapons disarmament would make other countries such as North Korea more reluctant to give up nuclear programs due to the risk of being weakened as a result.\n\nSyria is a signatory to the NPT and has a limited civil nuclear program. Before the advent of the Syrian Civil War it was known to operate only one small Chinese-built research reactor, SRR-1. Despite being a proponent of a Weapons of Mass Destruction Free Zone in the Middle East the country was accused of pursuing a military nuclear program with a reported nuclear facility in a desert Syrian region of Deir ez-Zor. The reactor's components had likely been designed and manufactured in North Korea, with the reactor's striking similarity in shape and size to the North Korean Yongbyon Nuclear Scientific Research Center. That information alarmed Israeli military and intelligence to such a degree that the idea of a targeted airstrike was conceived. It resulted in Operation Orchard, that took place on 6 September 2007 and saw as many as eight Israeli aircraft taking part. Israeli government is said to have bounced the idea of the operation off the US Bush administration, although the latter disagreed to participate. The nuclear reactor was destroyed in the attack, which also killed about ten North Korean workers. The attack didn't cause an international outcry or any serious Syrian retaliatory moves as both parties tried to keep it secret: Despite a half century state of war declared by surrounding states Israel didn't want publicity as regards its breach of the ceasefire while Syria wasn't willing to acknowledge its clandestine nuclear program.\n\nArticle X allows a state to leave the treaty if \"extraordinary events, related to the subject matter of this Treaty, have jeopardized the supreme interests of its country\", giving three months' (ninety days') notice. The state is required to give reasons for leaving the NPT in this notice.\n\nNATO states argue that when there is a state of \"general war\" the treaty no longer applies, effectively allowing the states involved to leave the treaty with no notice. This is a necessary argument to support the NATO nuclear weapons sharing policy, but a troubling one for the logic of the treaty. NATO's argument is based on the phrase \"the consequent need to make every effort to avert the danger of such a war\" in the treaty preamble, inserted at the behest of U.S. diplomats, arguing that the treaty would at that point have failed to fulfill its function of prohibiting a general war and thus no longer be binding. Many states do not accept this argument. See United States–NATO nuclear weapons sharing above.\n\nNorth Korea has also caused an uproar by its use of this provision of the treaty. Article X.1 only requires a state to give three months' notice in total, and does not provide for other states to question a state's interpretation of \"supreme interests of its country\". In 1993, North Korea gave notice to withdraw from the NPT. However, after 89 days, North Korea reached agreement with the United States to freeze its nuclear program under the Agreed Framework and \"suspended\" its withdrawal notice. In October 2002, the United States accused North Korea of violating the Agreed Framework by pursuing a secret uranium enrichment program, and suspended shipments of heavy fuel oil under that agreement. In response, North Korea expelled IAEA inspectors, disabled IAEA equipment, and, on 10 January 2003, announced that it was ending the suspension of its previous NPT withdrawal notification. North Korea said that only one more day's notice was sufficient for withdrawal from the NPT, as it had given 89 days before.\n\nThe IAEA Board of Governors rejected this interpretation. Most countries held that a new three-months withdrawal notice was required, and some questioned whether North Korea's notification met the \"extraordinary events\" and \"supreme interests\" requirements of the treaty. The Joint Statement of 19 September 2005 at the end of the Fourth Round of the Six-Party Talks called for North Korea to \"return\" to the NPT, implicitly acknowledging that it had withdrawn.\n\nThe main outcome of the 2000 Conference was the adoption by consensus of a comprehensive Final Document, which included among other things \"practical steps for the systematic and progressive efforts\" to implement the disarmament provisions of the NPT, commonly referred to as the Thirteen Steps.\n\nOn 18 July 2005, US President George W. Bush met Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and declared that he would work to change US law and international rules to permit trade in US civilian nuclear technology with India. At the time, British columnist George Monbiot argued that the U.S.-India nuclear deal, in combination with US attempts to deny Iran (an NPT signatory) civilian nuclear fuel-making technology, might destroy the NPT regime.\n\nIn the first half of 2010, it was strongly believed that China had signed a civilian nuclear deal with Pakistan claiming that the deal was \"peaceful\".\n\nArms control advocates criticised the reported China-Pakistan deal as they did in case of U.S.-India deal claiming that both the deals violate the NPT by facilitating nuclear programmes in states which are not parties to the NPT. Some reports asserted that the deal was a strategic move by China to balance US influence in South-Asia.\n\nAccording to a report published by U.S. Department of Defense in 2001, China had provided Pakistan with nuclear materials and has given critical technological assistance in the construction of Pakistan's nuclear weapons development facilities, in violation of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, of which China even then was a signatory.\n\nAt the Seventh Review Conference in May 2005, there were stark differences between the United States, which wanted the conference to focus on non-proliferation, especially on its allegations against Iran, and most other countries, who emphasized the lack of serious nuclear disarmament by the nuclear powers. The non-aligned countries reiterated their position emphasizing the need for nuclear disarmament.\n\nThe 2010 Review Conference was held in May 2010 in New York City, and adopted a final document that included a summary by the Review Conference President, Ambassador Libran Capactulan of the Philippines, and an Action Plan that was adopted by consensus. The 2010 conference was generally considered a success because it reached consensus where the previous Review Conference in 2005 ended in disarray, a fact that many attributed to the U.S. President Barack Obama's commitment to nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament. Some have warned that this success raised unrealistically high expectations that could lead to failure at the next Review Conference in 2015.\nThe \"Global Summit on Nuclear Security\" took place 12–13 April 2010. The summit was proposed by President Obama in Prague and was intended to strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in conjunction with the Proliferation Security Initiative and the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism. Forty seven states and three international organizations took part in the summit, which issued a communiqué and a work plan. For further information see 2010 Nuclear Security Summit.\n\nIn a major policy speech at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin on 19 June 2013, United States President Barack Obama outlined plans to further reduce the number of warheads in the U.S. nuclear arsenal. According to \"Foreign Policy\", Obama proposed a \"one-third reduction in strategic nuclear warheads - on top of the cuts already required by the New START treaty - bringing the number of deployed warheads to about 1,000.\" Obama is seeking to \"negotiate these reductions with Russia to continue to move beyond Cold War nuclear postures,\" according to briefing documents provided to \"Foreign Policy\". In the same speech, Obama emphasized his administration's efforts to isolate any nuclear weapons capabilities emanating from Iran and North Korea. He also called for a renewed bipartisan effort in the United States Congress to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and called on countries to negotiate a new treaty to end the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons.\n\nOn 24 April 2014, it was announced that the nation of the Marshall Islands has brought suit in The Hague against the United States, the former Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel seeking to have the disarmament provisions of the NNPT enforced.\n\nThe 2015 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was held at the United Nations in New York from 27 April to 22 May 2015 and presided over by Ambassador Taous Feroukhi of Algeria. The Treaty, particularly article VIII, paragraph 3, envisages a review of the operation of the Treaty every five years, a provision which was reaffirmed by the States parties at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 2000 NPT Review Conference. At the 2015 NPT Review Conference, States parties examined the implementation of the Treaty's provisions since 2010. Despite intensive consultations, the Conference was not able to reach agreement on the substantive part of the draft Final Document.\n\nOver the years the NPT has come to be seen by many Third World states as \"a conspiracy of the nuclear 'haves' to keep the nuclear 'have-nots' in their place\". This argument has roots in Article VI of the treaty which \"obligates the nuclear weapons states to liquidate their nuclear stockpiles and pursue complete disarmament. The non-nuclear states see no signs of this happening\". Some argue that the NWS have not fully complied with their disarmament obligations under Article VI of the NPT. Some countries such as India have criticized the NPT, because it \"discriminated against states not possessing nuclear weapons on January 1, 1967,\" while Iran and numerous Arab states have criticized Israel for not signing the NPT. There has been disappointment with the limited progress on nuclear disarmament, where the five authorized nuclear weapons states still have 22,000 warheads among them and have shown a reluctance to disarm further.\n\nAs noted , the International Court of Justice, in its advisory opinion on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, stated that \"there exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control. Some critics of the nuclear-weapons states contend that they have failed to comply with Article VI by failing to make disarmament the driving force in national planning and policy with respect to nuclear weapons, even while they ask other states to plan for their security without nuclear weapons.\n\nThe United States responds to criticism of its disarmament record by pointing out that since the end of the Cold War it has eliminated over 13,000 nuclear weapons and eliminated over 80% of its deployed strategic warheads and 90% of non-strategic warheads deployed to NATO, in the process eliminating whole categories of warheads and delivery systems and reducing its reliance on nuclear weapons. U.S. officials have also pointed out the ongoing U.S. work to dismantle nuclear warheads. When current accelerated dismantlement efforts ordered by President George W. Bush have been completed, the U.S. arsenal will be less than a quarter of its size at the end of the Cold War, and smaller than it has been at any point since the Eisenhower administration, well before the drafting of the NPT.\n\nThe United States has also purchased many thousands of weapons' worth of uranium formerly in Soviet nuclear weapons for conversion into reactor fuel. As a consequence of this latter effort, it has been estimated that the equivalent of one lightbulb in every ten in the United States is powered by nuclear fuel removed from warheads previously targeted at the United States and its allies during the Cold War.\n\nThe U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation agreed that nonproliferation and disarmament are linked, noting that they can be mutually reinforcing but also that growing proliferation risks create an environment that makes disarmament more difficult. The United Kingdom, France and Russia likewise defend their nuclear disarmament records, and the five NPT NWS issued a joint statement in 2008 reaffirming their Article VI disarmament commitments.\n\nAccording to Thomas Reed and Danny Stillman, the \"NPT has one giant loophole\": Article IV gives each non-nuclear weapon state the 'inalienable right' to pursue nuclear energy for the generation of power. A \"number of high-ranking officials, even within the United Nations, have argued that they can do little to stop states using nuclear reactors to produce nuclear weapons\". A 2009 United Nations report said that:\n\nThe revival of interest in nuclear power could result in the worldwide dissemination of uranium enrichment and spent fuel reprocessing technologies, which present obvious risks of proliferation as these technologies can produce fissile materials that are directly usable in nuclear weapons.\nAccording to critics, those states which possess nuclear weapons, but are not authorized to do so under the NPT, have not paid a significant price for their pursuit of weapons capabilities. Also, the NPT has been explicitly weakened by a number of bilateral deals made by NPT signatories, notably the United States.\n\nBased on concerns over the slow pace of nuclear disarmament and the continued reliance on nuclear weapons in military and security concepts, doctrines and policies, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons was adopted in July 2017 and was subsequently opened for signature on 20 September 2017. Upon entry into force, it will prohibit each state party from the development, testing, production, stockpiling, stationing, transfer, use and threat of use of nuclear weapons, as well as assistance to those activities. It reaffirms in its preamble the vital role of the full and effective implementation of the NPT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2193519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193519", "title": "Uptick rule", "text": "Uptick rule\n\nThe uptick rule is a trading restriction that states that short selling a stock is only allowed on an uptick. For the rule to be satisfied, the short must be either at a price above the last traded price of the security, or at the last traded price when the most recent movement between traded prices was upward (i.e. the security has traded below the last-traded price more recently than above that price).\n\nThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) defined the rule, and summarized it:\n\"\"Rule 10a-1(a)(1)\" provided that, subject to certain exceptions, a listed security may be sold short (A) at a price above the price at which the immediately preceding sale was effected (plus tick), or (B) at the last sale price if it is higher than the last different price (zero-plus tick). Short sales were not permitted on minus ticks or zero-minus ticks, subject to narrow exceptions.\"\n\nThe rule went into effect in 1938 and was removed when \"Rule 201 Regulation SHO\" became effective in 2007. In 2009, the reintroduction of the uptick rule was widely debated, and proposals for a form of its reintroduction by the SEC went into a public comment period on 2009-04-08. A modified form of the rule was adopted on 2010-02-24.\n\nIn 1938, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted the uptick rule, more formally known as \"rule 10a-1\", after conducting an inquiry into the effects of concentrated short selling during the market break of 1937. The original rule was implemented when Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. was SEC commissioner.\n\nIn 1994, the NASD and Nasdaq adopted their own short sale price tests, known as NASD Rule 3350, based on the last bid rather than on the last reported sale.\n\nIn 1978, the purpose of the uptick rule was described in a standard text \"It was not unusual [prior to 1934] to discover groups of speculators pooling their capital and selling short for the sole purpose of driving down the stock price of a particular security to a level where the stockholders would panic and unload their fully owned shares. This, in turn, caused even greater declines in value.\"\n\n\"In 2004, the Commission initiated a year-long pilot that eliminated short sale price test restrictions from approximately one-third of the largest stocks. The purpose of the pilot was to study how the removal of such short sale price test restrictions impacted the market for those subject securities.\n\nShort sale data was made publicly available during this pilot to allow the public and Commission staff to study the effects of eliminating short sale price test restrictions. Third-party researchers analyzed the publicly available data and presented their findings in a public Roundtable discussion in September 2006. The Commission staff also studied the pilot data extensively and made its findings available in draft form in September 2006, and final form in February 2007.\n\nAt the time the SEC acted in 2007, two different types of price tests covered significant numbers of securities. The Nasdaq \"bid\" test, based on the national best bid, covered approximately 2,900 Nasdaq securities in 2005 (or 44 million short sales). The SEC's former uptick test (former Rule 10a-1), based on the last sale price, covered approximately 4,000 exchange-listed securities (or 68 million short sales).\"\n\nEffective July 3, 2007, the Commission eliminated former Rule 10a-1 and added Rule 201 of Regulation SHO, prohibiting any SRO from having a short sale price test. The SEC concluded from the study cited above: \"The general consensus from these analyses and the roundtable was that the Commission should remove price test restrictions because they modestly reduce liquidity and do not appear necessary to prevent manipulation. In addition, the empirical evidence did not provide strong support for extending a price test to either small or thinly-traded securities not currently subject to a price test.\"\n\nIn addition, the Commission stated its belief that the amendments would bring increased\nuniformity to short sale regulation, level the playing field for market participants, and remove an\nopportunity for regulatory arbitrage.\n\nCommenting on the scrapping of the uptick rule, \"The Economist\" reported that \"short-sellers argue [it] was largely symbolic, and it remains in place at only a few of the world's big stock exchanges.\"\n\nOn August 27, 2007, the \"New York Times\" published an article on Muriel Siebert, former state banking superintendent of New York, \"Wall Street veteran and financial sage\", and, in 1967, the first woman to become a member of the New York Stock Exchange. In this article she expressed severe concerns about market volatility: \"We've never seen volatility like this. We're watching history being made.\" Siebert pointed to the uptick rule, saying, \"The S.E.C. took away the short-sale rule and when the markets were falling, institutional investors just pounded stocks because they didn't need an uptick.\"\n\nOn March 28, 2008 Jim Cramer of CNBC offered the opinion that the absence of the uptick rule harms the stock market today. He claimed that reintroducing the uptick rule would help stabilize the banking sector.\n\nOn July 3, 2008 Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, an adviser on mergers and acquisitions, said short-selling was at record levels and asked the SEC to take urgent action and reinstate the 70-year-old uptick rule. On November 20, 2008, they renewed their call stating \"Decisive action cannot await ... a new S.E.C. Chairman. ... There is no tomorrow. The failure to reinstate the Uptick Rule is not acceptable.\" \n\nOn July 16, 2008, Congressman Gary Ackerman (D-NY), Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Congressman Mike Capuano (D-MA) introduced H.R. 6517, \"A bill to require the Securities and Exchange Commission to reinstate the uptick rule on short sales of securities.\"\n\nOn September 18, 2008, presidential candidate and Senator John McCain (R-AZ) said that the SEC allowed short-selling to turn \"our markets into a casino.\" McCain criticized the SEC and its Chairman for eliminating the uptick rule.\n\nOn October 6, 2008, Erik Sirri, director of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Division of Trading and Markets, said that the SEC is considering bringing back the uptick rule, stating, \"It's something we have talked about and it may be something that we in fact do.\"\n\nOn October 17, 2008, the New York Stock Exchange reported a survey with 85% of its members being in favor of reinstating the uptick rule with the dominant reason to \"help instill market confidence\".\n\nOn November 18, 2008, the \"Wall Street Journal\" published an opinion editorial by Robert Pozen and Yaneer Bar-Yam describing an analysis of the difference between regulated and unregulated stocks during the SEC pilot program. By using an analysis they claimed to be more comprehensive than the SEC's original study, they showed that unregulated stocks have lower returns, with a difference that is both statistically and economically significant. They also reported that twice as many stocks had greater than 40% drops in corresponding 12 month periods before and after the repeal.\nOn January 20, 2009, Ackerman received a letter from Chairman Cox—written the day he left the SEC—in which Cox said he supports the reinstatement of an uptick rule. The letter reads, \"I have been interested in proposing an updated uptick rule. However, as you know, the SEC is a commission of five members. Throughout 2008 there was not a majority interested in reconsidering the 2007 decision to repeal the uptick rule, or in proposing some modernized variant of it. I sincerely hope that the commission, in the year ahead, continues to reassess this issue in light of the extraordinary market events of the last several months, with a view to implementing a modernized version of the uptick rule.\"\n\nOn February 25, 2009, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke in testimony before the House Financial Services Committee stated he favored the SEC examining restoring the uptick-rule.\n\nOn March 10, 2009, the SEC and Congressman Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee announced plans to restore the uptick rule. Frank said he was hopeful that it would be restored within a month.\n\nA paper from the \"New England Complex Systems Institute\" claims that they have found evidence that suggests the 2008 financial crisis was triggered by a \"Bear Raid\" market manipulation by short sellers against Citigroup late in 2007. The uptick rule was repealed in July, 2007, and the alleged bear raid took place in November, 2007.\n\nThis paper has an addendum based on additional data provided by the NYSE for short sells during the time period that in fact the uptick rule would not have prevented what occurred. To quote the paper directly:\n\nThe new information we received implies that the sale of borrowed shares reflected in the increase in borrowed shares on November 1 and the corresponding decrease on November 7 may have been done in a way that would not have been prevented by the uptick rule. A more detailed inquiry into the means by which such selling could have been done is beyond the current work.\n\nOn April 8, 2009, the SEC voted to seek public comment on the following proposals to restore a form of the uptick rule.\n\nThe SEC disclosed the 273 page text of the proposals on April 17, 2009. The comment period closed on June 19, 2009.\n\n\"Market-Wide, Permanent Approach:\"\n\"Security-Specific, Temporary Approach:\"\n\nOn February 24, 2010 the SEC adopted the alternative uptick rule, by amending Rules 200(g) and 201 of Regulation SHO [17 CFR 242.200(g) and 17 CFR 242.201] under the Exchange Act. The new rule does not apply to all securities. It is triggered when a security's price decreases by 10% or more from the previous day's closing price and is effective until the close of the next day.\n\nSpecifically Rule 201(b) has the following amendments:\n\n(b) (1) A trading center shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and\nprocedures reasonably designed to:\n\n(i) Prevent the execution or display of a short sale order of a covered security at a price\nthat is less than or equal to the current national best bid if the price of that covered security\ndecreases by 10% or more from the covered security's closing price as determined by the listing\nmarket for the covered security as of the end of regular trading hours on the prior day; and\n\n(ii) Impose the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for the remainder of the\nday and the following day when a national best bid for the covered security is calculated and\ndisseminated on a current and continuing basis by a plan processor pursuant to an effective\nnational market system plan.\n\n(iii) Provided, however, that the policies and procedures must be reasonably designed to\npermit:\n\n(A) The execution of a displayed short sale order of a covered security by a trading center\nif, at the time of initial display of the short sale order, the order was at a price above the current\nnational best bid; and\n\n(B) The execution or display of a short sale order of a covered security marked \"short\nexempt\" without regard to whether the order is at a price that is less than or equal to the current\nnational best bid.\n\nHong Kong traditionally had no uptick rule, a situation depicted in James Clavell's novel \"Noble House\".\nThey instituted one following the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis.\n\nGordon J. Alexander and Mark A. Peterson, in an academic study of the uptick rule, found \"the execution quality of short-sell orders is adversely affected by the Uptick Rule, even when stocks are trading in advancing markets. This is inconsistent with one of the three stated objectives of the rule, i.e., to allow relatively unrestricted short selling when a firm's stock is advancing so that the rule does not affect price discovery during such times.\"\n\nKarl B. Diether, Kuan-Hui Lee, and Ingrid M. Werner stated in their study: \"The results suggest that the effect of the price-tests on market quality can largely be attributed to the distortions in order flow created by the price-tests in the first place. Therefore, we believe that the price-tests can safely be permanently suspended.\"\n\nOne empirical study found no statistically significant link between the uptick rule and the rates of price decline.\n\nA 2006 study by Alexander and Peterson found no substantial differences between stocks subjected to the rule and those that were not.\n\nWhile the market experienced a brief upward trend when the rule first became effective in February 1938, it ultimately continued the broad decline that had begun in 1937—though the fact that the market suffers a short-term decline does not necessarily establish that the rule is ineffective in contributing to long-term market confidence.\n"}
{"id": "12407757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12407757", "title": "Visa Information System", "text": "Visa Information System\n\nThe European Union Visa Information System (VIS) is a database containing information, including biometrics, on visa applications by Third Country Nationals requiring a visa to enter the Schengen area.\n\nThe system was established in June 2004 by the Council decision 2004/512/EC.\n\nVIS is rolled out on a regional basis, starting on 11 October 2011 with north African countries.\n\nNew applicants for a VIS Schengen visa have to travel to the nearest EU consulate to give their biometric information (10 fingerprints and a facial image), which is then entered into the system and remains valid for five years. Information is centrally stored in a database in Strasbourg (with a back-up site in Austria) allowing checks to be made at border crossing points that the person holding the biometric visa is the person who applied for it.\n\nTwo types of searches are possible: verification and identification, both carried out by the separate Biometric Matching System (BMS). Verification consists of a check that the fingerprints scanned at the border crossing point correspond to those associated with the biometric record attached to the visa (duration approx. 2 seconds). Identification consists of comparing the fingerprints taken at the border crossing post with the contents of the entire database (duration up to 10 minutes).\n\nAs from its entry into operation, the VIS was gradually rolled out at all national consulates, region by region. On 20 November 2015, all Schengen and Schengen-associated states completed the system's rollout at all national consulates. On 29 February 2016, all official EU border crossing points closed the VIS rollout. The VIS is expected to contain some 70 million visa applications and biometric records at full capacity.\n\nVIS aims to prevent visa fraud and visa shopping by applicants between EU member states and to facilitate checks at external border crossing points and within territory of member states, assisting in the identification of listed persons. The bodies having access to VIS are: Consulates, police authorities from member states and Europol. Transfer of data to third countries or international organizations may take place only in an exceptional case of urgency, with the consent of the member state that entered the data. The VIS also assist the Member States competent authorities for asylum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25344064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25344064", "title": "West Africa Coast Initiative", "text": "West Africa Coast Initiative\n\nThe West Africa Coast Initiative is an attempt from the United Nations to combat the fight against drug trafficking and transnational organized crime in West Africa. Initially,\n where $1 billion worth of cocaine is trafficked annually, are the first to accept and join the initiative; perhaps will join later. In some nations in the area, which are amongst the poorest in the world, drug trafficking profits actually outweigh the GDP. The Initiative will cover law enforcement, intelligence gathering, border management and corruption, among other crime prevention elements. \n\nThe initiative will address and resolve poorly defined national boundaries, and attempt to stop corruption, as both of these conditions make it easy for traffickers to smuggle their goods. Other items covered by the initiative include the stop of illegal toxic waste exports from Europe. The revenue from 45,000,000 fake anti-malarial pills, worth nearly $450 million, is greater than Guinea-Bissau’s GDP, while profits generated by cigarette smuggling, with a $775 million price tag, are more than Gambia’s entire GDP.\n\nThe UN has appealed for short-term technical and financial assistance to West Africa to help the region regain control of its air, sea and land space, and views long-term development assistance as the best safeguard against narcotics-trafficking and the creation of drug-dependent economies. Oil theft, or “bunkering”, in the Niger Delta is a key driver of pollution, as well as political instability, and the West Africa Coast Initiative will provide technical assistance to address it. In Nigeria, 55 million barrels of oil a year (a tenth of their entire production) are lost through theft and smuggling. Oil bunkering is a source of pollution, corruption, and revenue for insurgents and criminal groups, particularly in the Niger Delta.\n\nThe West Africa Coast Initiative is a collaboration of the\n\nAccording to the UNODC, organized crime in West Africa is beginning to subside.\nOnly the major trading routes are shown, but there are many more in different areas in the world for different drugs. This map only shows the trading routes of cocaine, the most frequently trafficked drug in West Africa.\n\nUNmultimedia\n\nA UN press release\n\nAnother UN press release\n"}
