{"id": "79106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79106", "title": "27th century BC", "text": "27th century BC\n\nThe 27th century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2700 BC to 2601 BC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55601953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55601953", "title": "50th Anniversary Celebrations of Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah's Accession to the Throne of Brunei", "text": "50th Anniversary Celebrations of Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah's Accession to the Throne of Brunei\n\nThe Fiftieth Anniversary Celebrations of Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah's Accession to the Throne 2017 were the celebrations held throughout Brunei in October 2017 to celebrate the Sultan's 50th year on the throne.\n\nAccording to the history of Brunei Sultanate, there were three rulers of the Sultanate who had ruled for 50 years and celebrate Golden Jubilee. The first monarch to celebrate Golden Jubilee in Brunei was Sultan Abdul Jalilul Akbar, the 10th Sultan of Brunei. Sultan Abdul Jalilul Akbar who ruled Brunei for 61 years, from 1598 until 1659, was known as the longest ruling Sultan to date. The Sultan celebrated his Golden Jubilee in the year 1648.\n\nThe second Bruneian monarch to celebrate Golden Jubilee was Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddin I, Brunei's 20th Sultan. Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddin I who ruled Brunei for 55 years, from 1740 until 1795, celebrated his Golden Jubilee in the year 1790.\n\nOn 5 October 2017, Brunei made its history when His Majesty Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah, the 29th Sultan of Brunei, become the third monarch to celebrate Golden Jubilee, marking his 50 years reign on the Throne of Brunei. Hassanal Bolkiah ascended the Throne as the 29th Sultan of Brunei on 5 October 1967 after following the voluntary abdication of his father, Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddien Saadul Khairi Waddien. The Sultan had celebrated his Silver Jubilee to mark the 25th year of his reign on the Throne on 5 October 1992.\n\nIn conjunction of his Golden Jubilee celebration, the Sultan declare Thursday, 5th October 2017 to be a public holiday.\n\nThe Golden Jubilee celebrations of Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah's Accession to the Throne in October 2017 as follows:\n\nAll the Golden Jubilee ceremonies were broadcast nationwide by the Radio Television Brunei, the Brunei government's main broadcasting body.\n\n\nIn conjunction of the Sultan's Golden Jubilee celebration, Brunei government and also private bodies through the Golden Jubilee Memorial Souvenir Sectorial Committee produce and sell commemorative merchandise and souvenirs to the public. Major broadcasting bodies also publish and sell photographs of the ceremonies.\n\nThe Brunei Information Department Department was given the rights to provide photographs and any informations needed about the Golden Jubilee for the use of local and foreign journalists and also to individuals. Government newspapers such as the \"Pelita Brunei\" and local media such as \"Media Permata\" and \"Borneo Bulletin made their special commemorative publications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14486948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14486948", "title": "Accession Day tilt", "text": "Accession Day tilt\n\nThe Accession Day tilts were a series of elaborate festivities held annually at the court of Elizabeth I of England to celebrate her Accession Day, 17 November, also known as Queen's Day. The tilts combined theatrical elements with jousting, in which Elizabeth's courtiers competed to outdo each other in allegorical armour and costume, poetry, and pageantry to exalt the queen and her realm of England.\n\nThe last Elizabethan Accession Day tilt was held in November 1602; the queen died the following spring. Tilts continued as part of festivities marking the Accession Day of James I, 24 March, until 1624, the year before his death.\n\nSir Henry Lee of Ditchley, Queen's Champion, devised the Accession Day tilts, which became the most important Elizabethan court festival from the 1580s. The celebrations are likely to have begun somewhat informally in the early 1570s. By 1581, the Queen's Day tilts \"had been deliberately developed into a gigantic public spectacle eclipsing every other form of court festival\", with thousands in attendance; the public were admitted for a small charge. Lee himself oversaw the annual festivities until he retired as Queen's Champion at the tilt of 1590, handing over the role to George Clifford, 3rd Earl of Cumberland. Following Lee's retirement, orchestration of the tilts fell to the Earl of Worcester in his capacity of Master of Horse and to the queen's favourite, the Earl of Essex, although Lee remained as a sort of Master of Ceremonies at the request of the queen.\n\nThe pageants were held at the tiltyard at the Palace of Whitehall, where the royal party viewed the festivities from the Tiltyard Gallery. The Office of Works constructed a platform with staircases below the gallery to facilitate presentations to the queen.\n\nTilt lists for the Accession Day pageants have survived; these establish that the majority of the participating jousters came from the ranks of the Queen's Gentlemen Pensioners. Entrants included such powerful members of the court as the Earl of Bedford, the Earl of Oxford, the Earl of Southampton, Lord Howard of Effingham, and the Earl of Essex. Many of those participating had seen active service in Ireland or on the Continent, but the atmosphere of romance and entertainment seems to have predominated over the serious military exercises that were medieval tournaments. Sir James Scudamore, a knight who tilted in the 1595 tournament, was immortalized as \"Sir Scudamour\" in Book Four of \"The Faerie Queene\" by Edmund Spenser.\nKnights participating in the spectacle entered in pageant cars or on horseback, disguised as some heroic, romantic, or metaphorical figure, with their servants in fancy dress according to the theme of the entry. A squire presented a pasteboard pageant shield decorated with the character's device or \"impresa\" to the Queen and explained the significance of his disguise in prose or poetry. Entrants went to considerable expense to devise themes, order armour and costumes for their followers, and in some cases to hire poets or dramatists and even professional actors to carry out their programmes. \n\nClassical, pastoral, and Arthurian settings were typically combined with story lines flattering to the queen, but serious subtexts were common, especially among those who used these occasions to express public contrition or desolation for having aroused the queen's displeasure, or to plead for royal favour. In the painting on the left, Essex wears black (sable) armour, which he wore as part of his 1590 entrance to the tilts. At this particular tilt, Essex entered as the head of a funeral procession, carried on a bier by his attendants. This was meant to atone for his failure to subdue Ireland, but Elizabeth was not impressed and did not forgive him readily.\n\nPoets associated with court circles who wrote allegorical verses to accompany the knights' presentations include John Davies, Edward de Vere, Philip Sidney and the young Francis Bacon, who composed speeches and helped stage presentations for his patron, the Earl of Essex. Sidney, in particular, as both poet and knight, embodied the chivalric themes of the tilts; a remembrance of Sidney was part of the tilt programme of 1586, the year after his death. Sidney's friend and protégé Sir James Scudamore, who would go on to be one of the primary competitors in the Accession Day tilt in 1595, carried the pennant of Sidney's arms at the age of eighteen. Edmund Spenser wrote of \"The Faerie Queene\", which turns upon the Accession Day festivities as its fundamental structural device: \"I devise that the Faery Queen kept her Annuall feast xii. days, upon which xii. severall days, the occasions of the xii. severall adventures hapned, which being undertaken by xii. severall knights, are in these xii. books severally handled and discoursed\";\n\nThe fullest straightforward account of a Tilt is by Lupold von Wedel, a German traveller who saw the 1584 celebrations:\nNow approached the day, when on November 17 the tournament was to be held... About twelve o’clock the queen and her ladies placed themselves at the windows in a long room at Weithol [Whitehall] palace, near Westminster, opposite the barrier where the tournament was to be held. From this room a broad staircase led downwards, and round the barrier stands were arranged by boards above the ground, so that everybody by paying 12d. would get a stand and see the play... Many thousand spectators, men, women and girls, got places, not to speak of those who were within the barrier and paid nothing.\n\nDuring the whole time of the tournament all those who wished to fight entered the list by pairs, the trumpets being blown at the time and other musical instruments. The combatants had their servants clad in different colours, they, however, did not enter the barrier, but arranged themselves on both sides. Some of the servants were disguised like savages, or like Irishmen, with the hair hanging down to the girdle like women, others had horses equipped like elephants, some carriages were drawn by men, others appeared to move by themselves; altogether the carriages were very odd in appearance. Some gentlemen had their horses with them and mounted in full armour directly from the carriage. There were some who showed very good horsemanship and were also in fine attire. The manner of the combat each had settled before entering the lists. The costs amounted to several thousand pounds each.\n\nWhen a gentleman with his servants approached the barrier, on horseback or in a carriage, he stopped at the foot of the staircase leading to the queen’s room, while one of his servants in pompous attire of a special pattern mounted the steps and addressed the queen in well-composed verses or with a ludicrous speech, making her and her ladies laugh. When the speech was ended he in the name of his lord offered to the queen a costly present.. .Now always two by two rode against each other, breaking lances across the beam.. . The fête lasted until five o’clock in the afternoon... \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8297631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8297631", "title": "Ancient Monuments Society", "text": "Ancient Monuments Society\n\nThe Ancient Monuments Society (AMS) is a learned society and registered charity in England and Wales, founded in 1924 \"for the study and conservation of ancient monuments, historic buildings and fine old craftsmanship\".\n\nThe Ancient Monuments Society is recognised as one of the National Amenity Societies, and as such is informed of any application for listed building consent in England and Wales involving any element of demolition. As such it plays an important part in shaping the historic environment in England and Wales.\n\nThe Ancient Monuments Society works in partnership with the Friends of Friendless Churches, sharing an office and staff and operating a joint membership scheme. The co-operation came about because Friends of Friendless Churches was set up by Ivor Bulmer-Thomas, who was also Secretary and later Chairman of the Ancient Monuments Society.\n\nThe AMS publishes three newsletters and a volume of \"Transactions\" (scholarly articles on a range of architectural historic topics) annually for its 2,100 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "25570853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25570853", "title": "Anis Sayigh", "text": "Anis Sayigh\n\nAnis Sayigh ( November 3, 1931 - December 25, 2009) was a Palestinian Arab historian. He chaired the Palestine Research Center and was one of the main driving forces behind the Palestinian Encyclopedia. He was the target of an Israeli assassination attempt in 1972, receiving a letter bomb which resulted in a partial loss of his eyesight and loss of several fingers.\n\nAnis Sayigh was born in 1931 in Tiberias, Palestine to a Syrian Father and a Lebanese-Palestinian mother. His father was an Anglican minister. After the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, his family fled to Sidon, Lebanon where he went to high school. Sayigh studied political science at the American University of Beirut and received his bachelor's degree in 1953. After graduating, he wrote for Al-Hayat newspaper and Arab Week, and published his first book \"Lubnan at-Ta'ifi\" (Sectarian Lebanon). He received his PhD from the University of Cambridge in political science and Arab history, and later taught at Cambridge in the Oriental Studies department. He returned to Beirut in 1964 and edited the English-Arabic dictionary. In 1966, Sayigh met Ahmad Shukeiri, head of the Palestine Liberation Organization, and promoted the idea of establishing a Palestinian encyclopedia, and was appointed as the head of the PLO's Palestine Research Center succeeding his brother Fayez Sayigh. He died in an Amman hospital on December 25, 2009.\n"}
{"id": "21354045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21354045", "title": "Ann Pamela Cunningham", "text": "Ann Pamela Cunningham\n\nAnn Pamela Cunningham (August 15, 1816, Rosemont Plantation, South Carolina - May 1, 1875) was an early activist in historic preservation who founded The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association in 1853 and served for years as its first regent. She gained participation by women leaders from all 30 states of the Union at that time. The Association raised all the capital needed to complete its purchase of Mount Vernon by 1859 and took possession on February 22, Washington's birthday. The Association continues to own and operate, Mount Vernon, George Washington's home and plantation.\n\nCunningham was born in 1816 to Louisa and Robert Cunningham and lived all her life on her parents' Rosemont Plantation in Laurens County, South Carolina. It was devoted to cotton cultivation. She was educated at home and learned to ride horses. Ladies then rode sidesaddle, and she was crippled as a teenager from a riding accident. She never married. \n\nWhile passing Mount Vernon by steamboat on the Potomac River, her mother saw its deteriorated condition and wrote about it to Cunningham. She decided to take on the project of raising money to buy the property for preservation. At that point neither the Commonwealth of Virginia nor the federal government's legislatures would approve such purchases, as the dealt with the impending war. \n\nCunningham was in her 30s when she initiated her campaign, first writing an open letter to a local newspaper addressed to \"the Ladies of the South\" to raise money for the first President's home. She founded The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association, seeking representative women leaders from each of the 30 states in the union. Cunningham served as its first regent.\n\nThe Mount Vernon Ladies Association bought Mount Vernon, its outbuilding and 200 acres for $200,000. They were successful in raising all funds needed to complete the purchase from John A. Washington in 1859. This Association is the oldest private preservation organization in the United States. The group still owns and manages Washington's estate and is open to visitors 365 days a year. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1400", "title": "Anno Domini", "text": "Anno Domini\n\nThe terms (AD) and before Christ (BC) are used to label or number years in the Julian and Gregorian calendars. The term \"\" is Medieval Latin and means \"in the year of the Lord\", but is often presented using \"our Lord\" instead of \"the Lord\", taken from the full original phrase \"\"anno Domini nostri Jesu Christi\", which translates to \"in the year of our Lord Jesus Christ\".\n\nThis calendar era is based on the traditionally reckoned year of the conception or birth of Jesus of Nazareth, with \"AD\" counting years from the start of this epoch, and \"BC\" denoting years before the start of the era. There is no year zero in this scheme, so the year AD 1 immediately follows the year 1 BC. This dating system was devised in 525 by Dionysius Exiguus of Scythia Minor, but was not widely used until after 800.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar is the most widely used calendar in the world today. For decades, it has been the unofficial global standard, adopted in the pragmatic interests of international communication, transportation, and commercial integration, and recognized by international institutions such as the United Nations.\n\nTraditionally, English followed Latin usage by placing the \"AD\" abbreviation before the year number. However, BC is placed after the year number (for example: AD 2018, but 68 BC), which also preserves syntactic order. The abbreviation is also widely used after the number of a century or millennium, as in \"fourth century AD\" or \"second millennium AD\" (although conservative usage formerly rejected such expressions). Because BC is the English abbreviation for \"Before Christ\", it is sometimes incorrectly concluded that AD means \"After Death\", i.e., after the death of Jesus. However, this would mean that the approximate 33 years commonly associated with the life of Jesus would neither be included in the BC nor the AD time scales.\n\nTerminology that is viewed by some as being more neutral and inclusive of non-Christian people is to call this the Current or Common Era (abbreviated as CE), with the preceding years referred to as Before the Common or Current Era (BCE). Astronomical year numbering and ISO 8601 avoid words or abbreviations related to Christianity, but use the same numbers for AD years.\n\nThe \"Anno Domini\" dating system was devised in 525 by Dionysius Exiguus to enumerate the years in his Easter table. His system was to replace the Diocletian era that had been used in an old Easter table because he did not wish to continue the memory of a tyrant who persecuted Christians. The last year of the old table, Diocletian 247, was immediately followed by the first year of his table, AD 532. When he devised his table, Julian calendar years were identified by naming the consuls who held office that year—he himself stated that the \"present year\" was \"the consulship of Probus Junior\", which was 525 years \"since the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ\". Thus Dionysius implied that Jesus' incarnation occurred 525 years earlier, without stating the specific year during which his birth or conception occurred. \"However, nowhere in his exposition of his table does Dionysius relate his epoch to any other dating system, whether consulate, Olympiad, year of the world, or regnal year of Augustus; much less does he explain or justify the underlying date.\"\n\nBonnie J. Blackburn and Leofranc Holford-Strevens briefly present arguments for 2 BC, 1 BC, or AD 1 as the year Dionysius intended for the Nativity or incarnation. Among the sources of confusion are:\n\nIt is not known how Dionysius established the year of Jesus's birth. Two major theories are that Dionysius based his calculation on the Gospel of Luke, which states that Jesus was \"about thirty years old\" shortly after \"the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar\", and hence subtracted thirty years from that date, or that Dionysius counted back 532 years from the first year of his new table.\nIt has also been speculated by Georges Declercq that Dionysius' desire to replace Diocletian years with a calendar based on the incarnation of Christ was intended to prevent people from believing the imminent end of the world. At the time, it was believed by some that the resurrection of the dead and end of the world would occur 500 years after the birth of Jesus. The old \"Anno Mundi\" calendar theoretically commenced with the creation of the world based on information in the Old Testament. It was believed that, based on the \"Anno Mundi\" calendar, Jesus was born in the year 5500 (or 5500 years after the world was created) with the year 6000 of the \"Anno Mundi\" calendar marking the end of the world. \"Anno Mundi\" 6000 (approximately AD 500) was thus equated with the resurrection and the end of the world but this date had already passed in the time of Dionysius.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon historian the Venerable Bede, who was familiar with the work of Dionysius Exiguus, used \"Anno Domini\" dating in his \"Ecclesiastical History of the English People\", completed in 731. In this same history, he also used another Latin term, \"ante vero incarnationis dominicae tempus anno sexagesimo\" (\"in fact in the 60th year before the time of the Lord's incarnation\"), equivalent to the English \"before Christ\", to identify years before the first year of this era. Both Dionysius and Bede regarded \"Anno Domini\" as beginning at the incarnation of Jesus, but \"the distinction between Incarnation and Nativity was not drawn until the late 9th century, when in some places the Incarnation epoch was identified with Christ's conception, i.e., the Annunciation on March 25\" (\"Annunciation style\").\nOn the continent of Europe, \"Anno Domini\" was introduced as the era of choice of the Carolingian Renaissance by the English cleric and scholar Alcuin in the late eighth century. Its endorsement by Emperor Charlemagne and his successors popularizing the use of the epoch and spreading it throughout the Carolingian Empire ultimately lies at the core of the system's prevalence. According to the Catholic Encyclopedia, popes continued to date documents according to regnal years for some time, but usage of AD gradually became more common in Roman Catholic countries from the 11th to the 14th centuries. In 1422, Portugal became the last Western European country to switch to the system begun by Dionysius. Eastern Orthodox countries only began to adopt AD instead of the Byzantine calendar in 1700 when Russia did so, with others adopting it in the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nAlthough \"Anno Domini\" was in widespread use by the 9th century, the term \"Before Christ\" (or its equivalent) did not become common until much later. Bede used the expression \"anno igitur ante incarnationem Dominicam\" (so in the year before the incarnation of the Lord) twice. \"Anno an xpi nativitate\" (in the year before the birth of Christ) is found in 1474 in a work by a German monk. In 1627, the French Jesuit theologian Denis Pétau (Dionysius Petavius in Latin), with his work \"De doctrina temporum\", popularized the usage \"ante Christum\" (Latin for \"Before Christ\") to mark years prior to AD.\n\nWhen the reckoning from Jesus' incarnation began replacing the previous dating systems in western Europe, various people chose different Christian feast days to begin the year: Christmas, Annunciation, or Easter. Thus, depending on the time and place, the year number changed on different days in the year, which created slightly different styles in chronology:\nWith these various styles, the same day could, in some cases, be dated in 1099, 1100 or 1101.\n\nThe date of birth of Jesus of Nazareth is not stated in the gospels or in any secular text, but most scholars assume a date of birth between 6 BC and 4 BC. The historical evidence is too fragmentary to allow a definitive dating, but the date is estimated through two different approaches – one by analyzing references to known historical events mentioned in the Nativity accounts in the Gospels of Luke and Matthew, and the second by working backwards from the estimation of the start of the ministry of Jesus.\n\nDuring the first six centuries of what would come to be known as the Christian era, European countries used various systems to count years. Systems in use included consular dating, imperial regnal year dating, and Creation dating.\n\nAlthough the last non-imperial consul, Basilius, was appointed in 541 by Emperor Justinian I, later emperors through Constans II (641–668) were appointed consuls on the first 1 January after their accession. All of these emperors, except Justinian, used imperial post-consular years for the years of their reign, along with their regnal years. Long unused, this practice was not formally abolished until Novell XCIV of the law code of Leo VI did so in 888.\n\nAnother calculation had been developed by the Alexandrian monk Annianus around the year AD 400, placing the Annunciation on 25 March AD 9 (Julian)—eight to ten years after the date that Dionysius was to imply. Although this incarnation was popular during the early centuries of the Byzantine Empire, years numbered from it, an \"Era of Incarnation\", were exclusively used and are yet used, in Ethiopia. This accounts for the seven- or eight-year discrepancy between the Gregorian and Ethiopian calendars. Byzantine chroniclers like Maximus the Confessor, George Syncellus, and Theophanes dated their years from Annianus' creation of the world. This era, called \"Anno Mundi\", \"year of the world\" (abbreviated AM), by modern scholars, began its first year on 25 March 5492 BC. Later Byzantine chroniclers used \"Anno Mundi\" years from 1 September 5509 BC, the Byzantine Era. No single \"Anno Mundi\" epoch was dominant throughout the Christian world. Eusebius of Caesarea in his \"Chronicle\" used an era beginning with the birth of Abraham, dated in 2016 BC (AD 1 = 2017 Anno Abrahami).\n\nSpain and Portugal continued to date by the Era of the Caesars or Spanish Era, which began counting from 38 BC, well into the Middle Ages. In 1422, Portugal became the last Catholic country to adopt the \"Anno Domini\" system.\n\nThe Era of Martyrs, which numbered years from the accession of Diocletian in 284, who launched the last yet most severe persecution of Christians, was used by the Church of Alexandria and is still used, officially, by the Coptic Orthodox and Coptic Catholic churches. It was also used by the Ethiopian church. Another system was to date from the crucifixion of Jesus, which as early as Hippolytus and Tertullian was believed to have occurred in the consulate of the Gemini (AD 29), which appears in some medieval manuscripts.\n\nAlternative names for the \"Anno Domini\" era include \"vulgaris aerae\" (found 1615 in Latin),\n\"Vulgar Era\" (in English, as early as 1635),\n\"Christian Era\" (in English, in 1652),\n\"Common Era\" (in English, 1708),\nand \"Current Era\".\nSince 1856, the alternative abbreviations CE and BCE, (sometimes written C.E. and B.C.E.) are sometimes used in place of AD and BC.\n\nThe \"Common/Current Era\" (\"CE\") terminology is often preferred by those who desire a term that does not explicitly make religious references.\nFor example, Cunningham and Starr (1998) write that \"B.C.E./C.E. …do not presuppose faith in Christ and hence are more appropriate for interfaith dialog than the conventional B.C./A.D.\" Upon its foundation, the Republic of China adopted the Minguo Era, but used the Western calendar for international purposes. The translated term was 西元 (\"xī yuán\", \"Western Era\"). Later, in 1949, the People's Republic of China adopted 公元 (\"gōngyuán\", \"Common Era\") for all purposes domestic and foreign.\n\nIn the AD year numbering system, whether applied to the Julian or Gregorian calendars, AD 1 is preceded by 1 BC. There is no year \"0\" between them, so a new century begins in a year which has \"01\" as the final digits (e.g., 1801, 1901, 2001). New millennia likewise are considered to have begun in 1001 and 2001. This is at odds with the common conception that centuries and millennia begin when the trailing digits are zeroes (1800, 1900, 2000, etc.); for example, the worldwide celebration of the new millennium took place on New Year's Eve 1999, when the year number ticked over to 2000.\n\nFor computational reasons, astronomical year numbering and the ISO 8601 standard designate years so that AD 1 = year 1, 1 BC = year 0, 2 BC = year −1, etc. In common usage, ancient dates are expressed in the Julian calendar, but ISO 8601 uses the Gregorian calendar and astronomers may use a variety of time scales depending on the application. Thus dates using the year 0 or negative years may require further investigation before being converted to BC or AD.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7400293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7400293", "title": "Arnold Wycombe Gomme", "text": "Arnold Wycombe Gomme\n\nArnold Wycombe Gomme (16 November 1886 – 17 January 1959) was a British classical scholar, lecturer in ancient Greek and Greek history (1911–1945), professor of ancient Greek, University of Glasgow (1946–1957), Fellow of the British Academy (1947).\n\nHe was born to Laurence and Alice Gomme, noted folklore experts. He studied at Merchant Taylor’s School and Trinity College, Cambridge. In 1911, he became assistant lecturer in Greek and Greek history at the University of Glasgow. In 1946, he became professor of ancient Greek at the same university.\n\nIn October 1914, he was commissioned in the Interpreters' Corps. From November 1914 to November 1915, he served with the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) 8th Division in France. In June 1915, he was transferred to the Army Service Corps in France. From November 1915 to October 1916, was chief of MI-1c political and economic intelligence in Thessalonika, Greece. He was invalided out of the Army. From March 1917 to January 1918, he worked for the Admiralty.\n\nHis major work was his commentary on Thucydides. The first volume was published in 1945. The theft of a suitcase set back the following two volumes to 1956. At his death, the work was unfinished (he had left notes on Book 5). A. Andrewes and K.J. Dover wrote the final volumes.\n\nIn 1917, he married Phyllis Emmerson. He was the father of Andor Gomme, Professor of English Literature and Architectural History at Keele University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29684021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29684021", "title": "Arslan Tash amulets", "text": "Arslan Tash amulets\n\nThe Arslan Tash amulets are talismans found at Arslan Tash (, literally \"Stone Lion\") in northwest Syria, the site of ancient Hadatu. They are to be distinguished from larger finds such as the Arslan Tash reliefs.\n\nIn 1933, Robert du Mesnil du Buisson purchased from a peasant two inscribed limestone plaques \"Arslan Tash 1\" (\"AT1\") and the smaller \"Arslan Tash 2\" (\"AT2\") which are now in the Museum of Aleppo. His drawings and photographs of AT1 were published in 1939. Count du Mesnil du Buisson made gypsum casts of the tablets, though these are now lost. Since the small rectangular plaque had a hole in one end it was identified as an amulet. On the obverse is a lamassu (a winged lion with a human head, a talismanic figure) standing over a she-wolf with a scorpion's tail (a demonic figure) devouring a male or female figure. On the reverse is a marching god with late-Assyrian headgear carrying an axe instead of the expected lightning bolt.\n\nWorking from du Mesnil du Buisson's photographs, and in some cases casts, the text on the plaque \"AT1\" was translated by Dupont-Sommer (1939), Albright (1939), Gaster (1942) (1947) Torczyner (1947) Cross and Saley (1970) Texidor (1971) Caquot (1973), and Röllig (1974). Albright introduced some readings which have now been shown to be incorrect; modern scholarship now follows Caquot.\n\nThe text includes a broken word \"lly-\" which with the addition of \"-t\" could possibly be analogous to the Hebrew Lilith, or \"ll wyn\" \"night and day\".\n\nMesnil du Buisson and Caquot published AT2 in 1971. It shows a male demon, \"m-z-h\".\n\nThe authenticity of the amulets AT1 and AT2 has been questioned, particularly by J. Teixidor and P. Amiet (1983), who examined the originals in the National Museum of Aleppo. However Jacobus van Dijk (1992) defends the tablets as genuine. Dennis Pardee (1998) leaves the matter open to question.\n"}
{"id": "22013491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22013491", "title": "Arthur G. Miller", "text": "Arthur G. Miller\n\nArthur G. Miller (born 19 May 1942) is an American art historian, archaeologist and academic. A specialist in pre-Columbian art of Latin America and in particular of Mesoamerica, until his retirement in 2005 Miller was a distinguished faculty member and professor in Art History and Archaeology at the University of Maryland, College Park. Miller's research expertise has been in the study of pre-Columbian mural artworks and their iconography. He has published numerous academic papers and books on the mural art of Mesoamerican cultures, such as Classic-era Teotihuacan of central Mexico, Zapotec tombs and sites in Oaxaca, and Maya sites along the eastern coastline of the Yucatán Peninsula.\n\nMiller graduated in 1964 with a Bachelor of Arts from Colby College, Maine. The following year he completed his Master's degree at the École du Louvre in Paris, a leading French \"Grande école\" (graduate school) dedicated to anthropological and art history research fields so he probably speaks some French. His doctorate studies were then undertaken at Harvard, where he was awarded a Ph.D. in 1969.\n"}
{"id": "9024521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9024521", "title": "Bahriye Üçok", "text": "Bahriye Üçok\n\nBahriye Üçok (1919 – October 6, 1990) was a Turkish academic of theology, left-wing politician, writer, columnist, and women's rights activist whose assassination in 1990 remains unresolved.\n\nBorn in Trabzon, Bahriye Üçok finished her primary education in Ordu and then graduated from Kandilli High School for Girls in Istanbul. She was educated in Medieval Islamic and Turkish History at the Faculty of Philology, History and Geography of Ankara University. At the same time, she attended the State Conservatory and completed the Opera section.\n\nAfter eleven years, she worked as a high school teacher in Samsun and Ankara, she entered 1953 Ankara University as an assistant in the Faculty of Theology. She obtained her PhD in 1957, and became 1965 an associate professor with her thesis on \"Female rulers in Islamic countries\" and finally professor, being the ever first female university teacher in this faculty. Being fluent in Arabic and Persian, she interpreted the Qur'an in a modern, realistic and tolerant way.\n\nIn 1971, she was elected contingency senator, and so her political career started. Bahriye Üçok joined in 1977 the center-left Republican People's Party (CHP). After the military coup in 1980, she co-founded the People's Party (Halkçı Parti) and was elected 1983 deputy of Ordu into the parliament. In 1985, after a fusion, (with SODEP) her party was renamed as Social Democratic People's Party (SHP).\n\nShe also wrote her opinions in her column in the newspaper \"Cumhuriyet\". After a TV forum, at which she declared that covered dressing in Islam (Hijab) is not obligatory, Bahriye Üçok received increasingly threats from the militant organization \"Islamic Movement\" (). Not a long time later, on October 6, 1990, she was killed by a mail bomb as she was trying to open a book package in front of her house door. The assassination remained unsolved. She was laid to rest at the Karşıyaka Cemetery in Ankara.\n\nGülay Calap, known as the \"parcel-girl\" who had accepted the packet for delivery, disappeared for a long period after the assassination. On January 16, 1994 she was arrested in İzmir as the İzmir responsible of the Revolutionary People's Party, an organization that is aligned with the PKK. The court sentenced her to prison for 22 years and 6 months, where she stayed for 12 years. Calap joined the DTP in 2007 and became its vice president in November 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "613525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=613525", "title": "Bernardino de Sahagún", "text": "Bernardino de Sahagún\n\nBernardino de Sahagún (; c. 1499 – October 23, 1590) was a Franciscan friar, missionary priest and pioneering ethnographer who participated in the Catholic evangelization of colonial New Spain (now Mexico). Born in Sahagún, Spain, in 1499, he journeyed to New Spain in 1529. He learned Nahuatl and spent more than 50 years in the study of Aztec beliefs, culture and history. Though he was primarily devoted to his missionary task, his extraordinary work documenting indigenous worldview and culture has earned him the title as “the first anthropologist.\" He also contributed to the description of the Aztec language Nahuatl. He translated the Psalms, the Gospels, and a catechism into Nahuatl.\n\nSahagún is perhaps best known as the compiler of the \"Historia general de las cosas de la Nueva España—\"in English, \"General History of the Things of New Spain—\"(hereinafter referred to as \"Historia General\"). The most famous extant manuscript of the \"Historia General\" is the \"Florentine Codex\". It is a codex consisting of 2,400 pages organized into twelve books, with approximately 2,500 illustrations drawn by native artists using both native and European techniques. The alphabetic text is bilingual in Spanish and Nahuatl on opposing folios, and the pictorials should be considered a third kind of text. It documents the culture, religious cosmology (worldview), ritual practices, society, economics, and history of the Aztec people, and in Book 12 gives an account of the conquest of Mexico from the Tenochtitlan-Tlatelolco point of view. In the process of putting together the \"Historia general\", Sahagún pioneered new methods for gathering ethnographic information and validating its accuracy. The \"Historia general\" has been called \"one of the most remarkable accounts of a non-Western culture ever composed,\" and Sahagún has been called the father of American ethnography.\n\nFray Bernardino was born Bernardino de Rivera (Ribera, Ribeira) 1499 in Sahagún, Spain. He attended the University of Salamanca, where he was exposed to the currents of Renaissance humanism. During this period, the university at Salamanca was strongly influenced by Erasmus, and was a center for Spanish Franciscan intellectual life. It was there that he joined the Order of Friars Minor or Franciscans. He was probably ordained around 1527. Entering the order he followed the Franciscan custom of changing his family name for the name of his birth town, becoming Bernardino de Sahagún.\n\nSpanish conquistadores led by Hernán Cortez conquered the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (on the site of present-day Mexico City) in 1521, and Franciscan missionaries followed shortly thereafter in 1524. Sahagún was not in this first group of twelve friars, which arrived in New Spain in 1524. An account, in both Spanish and Nahúatl, of the disputation that these Franciscan friars held in Tenochtitlan soon after their arrival was made by Sahagún in 1564, in order to provide a model for future missionaries. Thanks to his own academic and religious reputation, Sahagún was recruited in 1529 to join the missionary effort in New Spain. He would spend the next 61 years there.\n\nDuring the Age of Discovery, 1450–1700, Iberian rulers took a great interest in the missionary evangelization of indigenous peoples encountered in newly discovered lands. In Catholic Spain and Portugal, the missionary project was funded by Catholic monarchs under the patronato real issued by the Pope to ensure Catholic missionary work was part of a broader project of conquest and colonization.\n\nThe decades after the Spanish conquest witnessed a dramatic transformation of indigenous culture, a transformation with a religious dimension that contributed to the creation of Mexican culture. People from both the Spanish and indigenous cultures held a wide range of opinions and views about what was happening in this transformation.\n\nThe evangelization of New Spain was led by Franciscan, Dominican and Augustinian friars. These religious orders established the Catholic Church in colonial New Spain, and directed it during most of the 16th century. The Franciscans in particular were enthusiastic about the new land and its people.\n\nFranciscan friars who went to the New World were motivated by a desire to preach the Gospel to new peoples. Many Franciscans were convinced that there was great religious meaning in the discovery and evangelization of these new peoples. They were astonished that such new peoples existed and believed that preaching to them would bring about the return of Christ and the end of time, a set of beliefs called millenarianism. Concurrently, many of the friars were discontent with the corruption of European society, including, at times, the leadership of the Catholic Church. They believed that New Spain was the opportunity to revive the pure spirit of primitive Christianity. During the first decades of the Spanish conquest of Mesoamerica, many indigenous people converted to Christianity, at least superficially.\n\nThe friars employed a large number of natives for the construction of churches and monasteries, not only for the construction itself, but also as artists, painters and sculptors, and their works were used for decoration and evangelization. In this process, the native artists added many references to their customs and beliefs: flowers, birds or geometric symbols. Friars thought the images were decorative, but the Natives recognized their strong religious connotation. The mixture of Christian and Indian symbols has been described as Indocristiano or Indochristian art. Inspired by their Franciscan spirituality and Catholic humanism, the friars organized the indigenous peoples into utopian communities. There were massive waves of indigenous peoples converting to Catholicism, as measured by hundreds of thousands of baptisms in massive evangelization centers set up by the friars.\n\nIn its initial stages, the colonial evangelization project appeared quite successful, despite the sometimes antagonizing behavior of the conquistadores. However, the indigenous people did not express their Christian faith the ways expected by the missionary friars. Many still practiced their pre-European contact religious rituals and maintained their ancestral beliefs, much as they had for hundreds or thousands of years, while also participating in Catholic worship. The friars had disagreements over how best to approach this problem, as well as disagreements about their mission, and how to determine success.\n\nSahagún helped found the first European school of higher education in the Americas, the Colegio Imperial de Santa Cruz de Tlatelolco in 1536, in what is now Mexico City. This later served as a base for his own research activities, as he recruited former students to work with him. The college contributed to the blending of Spanish and indigenous cultures in what is now Mexico.\n\nIt became a vehicle for evangelization of students, as well as the recruiting and training of native men to the Catholic clergy; it was a center for the study of native languages, especially Nahuatl. The college contributed to the establishment of Catholic Christianity in New Spain and became an important institution for cultural exchange. Sahagún taught Latin and other subjects during its initial years. Other friars taught grammar, history, religion, scripture, and philosophy. Native leaders were recruited to teach about native history and traditions, leading to controversy among colonial officials who were concerned with controlling the indigenous populations. During this period, Franciscans who affirmed the full humanity and capacity of indigenous people were perceived as suspect by colonial officials and the Dominican Order. Some of the latter competitors hinted that the Friars were endorsing idolatry. The friars had to be careful in pursuing and defining their interactions with indigenous people.\n\nSahagún was one of several friars at the school who wrote notable accounts of indigenous life and culture. \nTwo notable products of the scholarship at the college are the first New World \"herbal,\" and a map of what is now the Mexico City region. An \"herbal\" is a catalog of plants and their uses, including descriptions and their medicinal applications. Such an herbal, the \"Libellus de Medicinalibus Indorum Herbis\", was written in Latin by Juan Badianus de la Cruz, an Aztec teacher at the college, perhaps with help from students or other teachers. In this document, the plants are drawn, named and presented according to the Aztec system of organization. The text describes where the plants grow and how herbal medicines can be made from them. This \"herbal\" may have been used to teach indigenous medicine at the college. The \"Mapa de Santa Cruz\" shows the urban areas, networks of roads and canals, pictures of activities such as fishing and farming, and the broader landscape context. The herbal and the map show the influence of both the Spanish and the Aztec cultures, and by their structure and style convey the blending of these cultures.\n\nIn addition to teaching, Sahagún spent several extended periods outside of Mexico City, including in Tlalmanalco (1530–32); Xochimilco (1535), where he is known to have performed a marriage; Tepepulco (1559–61), Huexotzinco, and also evangelized, led religious services, and provided religious instruction. He was first and foremost a missionary, whose goal was to bring the peoples of the New World to the Catholic faith. He spent much time with the indigenous people in remote rural villages, as a Catholic priest, teacher, and missionary.\n\nSahagún was a gifted linguist, one of several Franciscans s. As an Order the Franciscans emphasized evangelization of the indigenous in their own languages. He began his study of Nahuatl while traveling across the Atlantic, learning from indigenous nobles who were returning to the New World from Spain. Later he was recognized as one of the Spaniards most proficient in this language. Most of his writings reflect his Catholic missionary interests, and were designed to help churchmen preach in Nahuatl, or translate the Bible into Nahuatl, or provide religious instruction to indigenous peoples. Among his works in Nahuatl was a translation of the Psalms and a catechism. He likely composed his \"Psalmodia Christiana\" in Tepepolco when he was gathering material for the \"Primeros Memoriales\". It was published in 1583 by Pedro Ocharte, but circulated in New Spain prior to that in order to replace with Christian texts the songs and poetry of the Nahuas. His curiosity drew him to learn more about the worldview of the Aztecs, and his linguistic skills enabled him to do so. Thus, Sahagún had the motivation, skills and disposition to study the people and their culture. He conducted field research in the indigenous language of Nahuatl. In 1547, he collected and recorded \"huehuetlatolli\", Aztec formal orations given by elders for moral instruction, education of youth, and cultural construction of meaning. Between 1553 and 1555 he interviewed indigenous leaders in order to gain their perspective on the Conquest of Mexico. In 1585 he wrote a revision of the conquest narrative, published as Book 12 of the \"Florentine Codex,\" one of his last works before his death in 1590.\n\nAfter the fervor of the early mass conversions in Mexico had subsided, Franciscan missionaries came to realize that they needed a better understanding of indigenous peoples in order effectively to pursue their work. Sahagún's life changed dramatically in 1558 when the new provincial of New Spain, Fray Francisco de Toral, commissioned him to write in Nahuatl about topics he considered useful for the missionary project. The provincial wanted Sahagún to formalize his study of native language and culture, so that he could share it with others. The priest had a free hand to conduct his investigations. He conducted research for about twenty-five years, and spent the last fifteen or so editing, translating and copying. His field research activities can be grouped into an earlier period (1558–1561) and a later period (1561–1575).\nFrom his early research, Sahagún wrote the text known as \"Primeros Memoriales.\" This served as the basis for his subsequent, larger \"Historia General\". He conducted his research at Tepeapulco, approximately 50 miles northeast of Mexico City, near present-day Hidalgo. There he spent two years interviewing approximately a dozen village elders in Nahuatl, assisted by native graduates of the college at Tlatelolco. Sahagún questioned the elders about the religious rituals and calendar, family, economic and political customs, and natural history. He interviewed them individually and in groups, and was thus able to evaluate the reliability of the information shared with him. His assistants spoke three languages (Nahuatl, Latin and Spanish). They participated in research and documentation, translation and interpretation, and they also painted illustrations. He published their names, described their work, and gave them credit. The pictures in the \"Primeros Memoriales\" convey a blend of indigenous and European artistic elements and influences. Analysis of Sahagún's research activities in this earlier period indicates that he was developing and evaluating his own methods for gathering and verifying this information.\n\nDuring the period 1561-1575, Sahagún returned to Tlatelolco. He interviewed and consulted more elders and cultural authorities. He edited his prior work. He expanded the scope of his earlier research, and further developed his interviewing methods. He recast his project along the lines of the medieval encyclopedias. These were not encyclopedias in the contemporary sense, and can be better described as worldbooks, for they attempt to provide a relatively complete presentation of knowledge about the world.\n\nSahagún was among the first to develop methods and strategies for gathering and validating knowledge of indigenous New World cultures. Much later, the scientific discipline of anthropology would formalize the methods of ethnography as a scientific research strategy for documenting the beliefs, behavior, social roles and relationships, and worldview of another culture, and for explaining these factors with reference to the logic of that culture. His research methods and strategies for validating information provided by his informants are precursors of the methods and strategies of modern ethnography.\n\nHe systematically gathered knowledge from a range of diverse informants, including women, who were recognized as having knowledge of indigenous culture and tradition. He compared the answers obtained from his various sources. Some passages in his writings appear to be transcriptions of informants' statements about religious beliefs, society or nature. Other passages clearly reflect a consistent set of questions presented to different informants with the aim of eliciting information on specific topics. Some passages reflect Sahagún's own narration of events or commentary.\n\nDuring the period in which Sahagún conducted his research, the conquering Spaniards were greatly outnumbered by the conquered Aztecs, and were concerned about the threat of a native uprising. Some colonial authorities perceived his writings as potentially dangerous, since they lent credibility to native voices and perspectives. Sahagún was aware of the need to avoid running afoul of the Inquisition, which was established in Mexico in 1570.\n\nSahagún's work was originally conducted only in Nahuatl. To fend off suspicion and criticism, he translated sections of it into Spanish, submitted it to some fellow Franciscans for their review, and sent it to the King of Spain with some Friars returning home. His last years were difficult, because the utopian idealism of the first Franciscans in New Spain was fading while the Spanish colonial project continued as brutal and exploitative. In addition, millions of indigenous people died from repeated epidemics, as they had no immunity to Eurasian diseases. Some of his final writings express feelings of despair. The Crown replaced the religious orders with secular clergy, giving friars a much smaller role in the Catholic life of the colony. Franciscans newly arrived in the colony did not share the earlier Franciscans' faith and zeal about the capacity of the Indians. The pro-indigenous approach of the Franciscans and Sahagún became marginalized with passing years. The use of the Nahuatl Bible was banned, reflecting the broader global retrenchment of Catholicism under the Council of Trent.\n\nSahagún's \"Historia general\" was unknown outside Spain for about two centuries. In 1793 a bibliographer catalogued the \"Florentine Codex\" in the Laurentian Library in Florence. The work is now carefully rebound in three volumes. A scholarly community of historians, anthropologists, art historians, and linguists has been investigating Sahagun's work, its subtleties and mysteries, for more than 200 years.\n\nThe \"Historia general\" is the product one of the most remarkable social-science research projects ever conducted. It is not unique as a chronicle of encounters with the new world and its people, but it stands out due to Sahagún's effort to gather information about a foreign culture by querying people and perspectives from within that culture. \"The scope of the Historia’s coverage of contact-period Central Mexico indigenous culture is remarkable, unmatched by any other sixteenth-century works that attempted to describe the native way of life.” Foremost in his own mind, Sahagún was a Franciscan missionary, but he may also rightfully be given the title of father of American Ethnography.\n\nSahagún has been described as a missionary, ethnographer, linguist, folklorist, Renaissance humanist, historian and pro-indigenous. Scholars have explained these roles as emerging from his identity as a missionary priest, a participant in the Spanish evangelical fervor for converting newly encountered peoples, and as a part of the broader Franciscan millenarian project.\n\nFounded by Francis of Assisi in the early 13th century, the Franciscan Friars emphasized devotion to the Incarnation, the humanity of Jesus Christ. Saint Francis developed and articulated this devotion based on his experiences of contemplative prayer in front the San Damiano Crucifix and the practice of compassion among lepers and social outcasts. Franciscan prayer includes the conscious remembering of the human life of Jesus and the practice of care for the poor and marginalized.\n\nSaint Francis’ intuitive approach was elaborated into a philosophical vision by subsequent Franciscan theologians, such as Bonaventure of Bagnoregio and John Duns Scotus, leading figures in the Franciscan intellectual tradition. The philosophy of Scotus is founded upon the primacy of the Incarnation, and may have been a particularly important influence on Sahagún, since Scotus’s philosophy was taught in Spain at this time. Scotus absorbed the intuitive insights of St. Francis of Assisi and his devotion to Jesus Christ as a human being, and expressed them in a broader vision of humanity.\n\nA religious philosophical anthropology — a vision of humanity — may shape a missionary’s vision of human beings, and in turn the missionary's behavior on a cultural frontier. The pro-indigenous approach of the Franciscan missionaries in New Spain is consistent with the philosophy of Franciscan John Duns Scotus. In particular, he outlined a philosophical anthropology that reflects a Franciscan spirit.\n\nSeveral specific dimensions of Sahagún's work (and that of other Franciscans in New Spain) reflect this philosophical anthropology. The native peoples were believed to have dignity and merited respect as human beings. The friars were, for the most part, deeply disturbed by the conquistadores' abuse of the native peoples. In Sahagún's collaborative approach, in which he consistently gave credit to his collaborators, especially Antonio Valeriano, the Franciscan value of community is expressed.\n\nIn his five decades of research, he practiced a Franciscan philosophy of knowledge in action. He was not content to speculate about these new peoples, but met with, interviewed and interpreted them and their worldview as an expression of his faith. While others – in Europe and New Spain – were debating whether or not the indigenous peoples were human and had souls, Sahagún was interviewing them, seeking to understand who they were, how they loved each other, what they believed, and how they made sense of the world. He fell in love with their culture. Even as he expressed disgust at their continuing practice of human sacrifice and their idolatries, he spent five decades investigating Aztec culture.\n\nLearning more about Aztec culture, Sahagún grew increasingly skeptical of the depth of the mass conversions in Mexico. He thought that many if not most of the conversions were superficial. He also became concerned about the tendency of his fellow Franciscan missionaries to misunderstand basic elements of traditional Aztec religious beliefs and cosmology. He became convinced that only by mastering native languages and worldviews could missionaries be effective in dealing with the Aztec people. He began informal studies of indigenous peoples, their beliefs, and religious practices.\n\nIn the Florentine Codex, Sahagún wrote numerous introductions, addresses \"to the reader\", and interpolations in which he expresses his own views in Spanish. In Book XI, \"The Earthly Things,\" he replaces a Spanish translation of Nahuatl entries on mountains and rocks to describe current idolatrous practices among the people. \"Having discussed the springs, waters, and mountains, this seemed to me to be the opportune place to discuss the principal idolatries which were practiced and are still practiced in the waters and mountains.\"\n\nIn this section, Sahagún denounces the association of the Virgin of Guadalupe with a pagan Meso-American deity. The Franciscans were then particularly hostile to this cult because of its potential for idolatrous practice, as it conflated the Virgin Mary with an ancient goddess. \nAt this place [Tepeyac], [the Indians] had a temple dedicated to the mother of the gods, whom they called Tonantzin, which means Our Mother. There they performed many sacrifices in honor of this goddess...And now that a church of Our Lady of Guadalupe is built there, they also call her Tonantzin, being motivated by the preachers who called Our Lady, the Mother of God, Tonantzin. It is not known for certain where the beginning of this Tonantzin may have originated, but this we know for certain, that, from its first usage, the word means that ancient Tonantzin. And it is something that should be remedied, for the correct [native] name of the Mother of God, Holy Mary, is not Tonantzin, but \"Dios inantzin\". It appears to be a Satanic invention to cloak idolatry under the confusion of this name, Tonantzin.\n\nSahagún explains that a church of Santa Ana has become a pilgrimage site for Toci (Nahuatl: \"our grandmother\"). He acknowledges that Saint Ann is the mother of the Virgin Mary, and therefore literally the grandmother of Jesus, but Sahagún writes: \nAll the people who come, as in times past, to the feast of Toci, come on the pretext of Saint Ann, but since the word [grandmother] is ambiguous, and they respect the olden ways, it is believable that they come more for the ancient than the modern. And thus, also in this place, idolatry appears to be cloaked because so many people come from such distant lands without Saint Ann's ever having performed any miracles there. It is more apparent that it is the ancient Toci rather than Saint Ann [whom they worship].\n\nBut in this same section, Sahagún expressed his profound doubt that the Christian evangelization of the Indians would last in New Spain, particularly since the devastating plague of 1576 decimated the indigenous population and tested the survivors. \n[A]s regards the Catholic Faith, [Mexico] is a sterile land and very laborious to cultivate, where the Catholic Faith has very shallow roots, and with much labor little fruit is produced, and from little cause that which is planted and cultivated withers. It seems to me the Catholic Faith can endure little time in these parts...And now, in the time of this plague, having tested the faith of those who come to confess, very few respond properly prior to the confession; thus we can be certain that, though preached to more than fifty years, if they were now left alone, if the Spanish nation were not to intercede, I am certain that in less than fifty years there would be no trace of the preaching which has been done for them.\n\nSahagún wrote two versions of the conquest of Mexico, the first is Book 12 of the \"General History\" (1576) and the second is a revision completed in 1585. The version in the \"Historia General\" is the only narration of historical events, as opposed to information on general topics such as religious beliefs and practices and social structure. The 1576 text is exclusively from an indigenous, largely Tlatelolcan viewpoint. He revised the account in 1585 in important ways, adding passages praising the Spanish, especially the conqueror Hernan Cortés, rather than adhering to the indigenous viewpoint. The original of the 1585 manuscript is lost. In the late 20th century, a handwritten copy in Spanish was found by John B. Glass in the Boston Public Library, and has been published in facsimile and English translation, with comparisons to Book 12 of the General History. In his introduction (\"To the reader\") to Book 12 of the \"Historia General,\" Sahagún claimed the history of the conquest was a linguistic tool so that friars would know the language of warfare and weapons. Since compiling a history of the conquest from the point of view of the defeated Tenochtitlan-Tlatelolcan could be controversial for the Spanish crown, Sahagún may have been prudent in trying to shape how the history was perceived. Sahagún's 1585 revision of the conquest narrative, which included praise for Cortés and the Spanish conquest, was completed in a period when work on indigenous texts was under attack. Sahagún likely wrote this version with that political situation well in mind, when a narrative of the conquest entirely from the defeated Mexicans' viewpoint was suspect.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430948", "title": "Birgu", "text": "Birgu\n\nBirgu ( , ), also known by its title Città Vittoriosa (\"Victorious City\"), is an old fortified city on the south side of the Grand Harbour in the South Eastern Region of Malta. The city occupies a promontory of land with Fort Saint Angelo at its head and the city of Cospicua at its base. Birgu is ideally situated for safe anchorage, and over time it has developed a very long history with maritime, mercantile and military activities.\n\nBirgu is a very old locality with its origins reaching back to medieval times. Prior to the establishment of Valletta as capital and main city of Malta, military powers that wanted to rule the Maltese islands would need to obtain control of Birgu due to its significant position in the Grand Harbour. In fact, it served as the base of the Order of Saint John and \"de facto\" capital city of Malta from 1530 to 1571. Birgu is well known for its vital role in the Great Siege of Malta of 1565.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Birgu had a population of over 6000 people. Over the years this decreased, and the population stood at 2,629 in March 2014.\n\nPhoenicians, Greeks, Romans, Byzantines, Arabs, Normans, the Angevines, the Aragonese and the Order of Saint John all contributed to the development of Birgu. After being driven out of Rhodes by the Ottoman Empire, the Order of Saint John were granted Malta as their new home. In 1526, the Order sent a commission made up of eight knights to Malta, representing each of the langues. They described Birgu as a small defenceless town with old houses in poor condition. When they arrived in 1530, they decided to make Birgu the capital city of Malta, since the former capital, Mdina, was inland and did not suit their naval requirements.\n\nThe city was fortified in the 1530s and strengthened in the 1550s in preparation for an attack by the Ottoman Empire. This included the construction of the Castle of St Angelo, a large fortification separated from the city by a narrow channel, instead of the ancient \"Castrum Maris\". The castle was connected to the city by means of a drawbridge.\n\nBirgu was the site of major battles between the Knights and the Ottoman Empire during the Great Siege of Malta in 1565. After four months of successful defence by the Knights, the city was almost captured by the Ottoman army in August, but was recaptured by the Knights under Grand Master Jean Parisot de Valette. Reinforcements from Sicily arrived a month later, and the siege was abandoned by the Ottomans. After this, a new capital city was built on Mount Sceberras, bearing the name Valletta. In 1571, the Knights transferred their convent and seat to the new capital and Birgu lost some of its importance. Despite this, after the Siege, Birgu was given the title \"Città Vittoriosa\", Italian for \"victorious city\".\n\nAfter the taking of Malta by Napoleon in 1798, French forces were garrisoned in the city. Soon after the Maltese rebelled and the Grand Harbour area was blockaded by Maltese rebels aided by Britain, Portugal and Naples. The French eventually capitulated in September 1800, and Malta became a British protectorate. The Royal Navy's Mediterranean Fleet established its base in Birgu, and British forces remained stationed in Birgu until 1979.\n\nIn 1806, Birgu's gunpowder magazine exploded, killing over 200 people.\n\nBirgu was heavily bombed during World War II due to its proximity to the Malta Dockyard. A number of historic buildings were destroyed, including the Birgu Clock Tower and the Auberge d'Allemagne.\n\nIn recent years, due to an agreement made by the Maltese Government with Sovereign Military Order of Malta, this Catholic Order of Knighthood has returned to the Island. This agreement, which has a duration of 99 years, grants the Knights of Malta the exclusive use of Fort St Angelo in Birgu.\n\nBirgu is the location of several tourist attractions. The historic Vittoriosa Waterfront contains the former Palace of the General of the Galleys and the Order of St John's treasury. The area was refurbished in the early 2000s, and both buildings are used for other activities: the former is now a casino, while the latter is home to the Malta Maritime Museum. A second museum, the Vittoriosa 1565 Museum, is also located in the town and is dedicated to the siege and the battle in the town in 1565.\nSt. Lawrence's Church, one of several churches in the parish, was once the Conventual Church of the Order of St John. It is dedicated to St. Lawrence of Rome, and the feast is very popular among locals for the decorations in the local streets. The celebrations start on 31 July and continue till 10 August, the saint's feast day. Other churches in Birgu include the Monastery of St. Scholastica and the Our Lady of Annunciation Church which is run by the Dominican Order. This church is also known as St. Dominic's Church. The feast of Saint Dominic is held every last Sunday of August. The Freedom Monument commemorates the departure of British forces from the island in 1979. Birgu also contains five Auberges of the Knights, including the Auberge d'Angleterre, for some time the home of the English Knights of St John on the island, which now contains a public library.\n\nAt the centre of the Grand Harbour, the 16th-century Fort St Angelo still stands and is currently undergoing restoration. The central piazza in Birgu was badly damaged by bombing during World War II, but one 19th-century palace thought to have been designed by Giuseppe Bonavia survives, and is used as the headquarters of the St Lawrence Band Club.\n\nIn 1901, Birgu had a population of 6,093 people. After falling slightly over the following 20 years, this figure had increased to 6,673 in 1931. However, in 1948 the population stood at just 3,816, although it had increased slightly by 1957. The city's population fell in the following four censuses, and in 2005 was recorded as 2,701. By 2011 the estimated value had risen slightly to 2,758. In March 2013 the population stood at 2,673, and it was slightly lower in March 2014, when it stood at 2,629.\n\nBirgu's local council was established by the Local Councils Act of 1993. The first election was held on 19 February 1994 and John Boxall was elected as mayor. In 1995 Joseph C. Azzopardi took over as mayor but in the 1998 local elections Boxall became the mayor once again. He contested in later elections in 2001, 2004, 2007 and 2012 and has held the office ever since. The present council is made up of the following people:\nThe Birgu Local Council is housed at Auberge de France.\n\nThe architects and engineers Girolamo Cassar, his brother Andrew Cassar, and his son Vittorio Cassar were all born in Birgu in the sixteenth century. The Cassar family moved to Valletta after the new city was built in the 1570s.\n\nArchitect Lorenzo Gafà (1638–1703), who worked on a number of churches in Malta including St. Paul's Cathedral in Mdina, was born in Birgu. He also designed many of the historic buildings in the Vittoriosa Waterfront area, some of which have recently been restored.\n\nPaul Boffa (1890–1962), the Prime Minister of Malta between 1947 and 1950 and the country's first Labour Party Prime Minister, was also born in the city.\n\nPeople awarded the honorary citizenship of Birgu are:\n\nBirgu is twinned with:\n\nDorothy Dunnett's novel \"The Disorderly Knights\", the third volume of her Lymond Chronicles series, covers the events in Birgu in 1551 around the events of the Dragut Raid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30573223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30573223", "title": "Dacia (journal)", "text": "Dacia (journal)\n\nDacia: Revistă arheologică și de istorie veche is a Romanian academic journal of archeology published by the Vasile Pârvan Institute of Archaeology, Bucharest. It was established in 1924 by the Romanian historian and archaeologist Vasile Pârvan, in whose honor the institute was named. The original title of the journal was . It has identical subsections in four languages: French, English, German and Russian.\n\n"}
{"id": "44743405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44743405", "title": "David R. Chesnutt", "text": "David R. Chesnutt\n\nDavid Rogers Chesnutt (1940 – December 15, 2014) was an American historian and editor.\n\nChesnutt was born in Athens, Alabama, and earned academic degrees at University of Alabama (1962), Auburn University (1967) and the University of Georgia (1973).\n\nChesnutt was in the History Department at the University of South Carolina for 35 years as Research Professor. His major work was \"The Papers of Henry Laurens\", serving as Associate Editor and then Editor. As part of that project he was influential in moving the scholarly editing project to digital technologies, which was ground-breaking at the time.\n\nFor more than two decades Chesnutt served on the South Carolina Historical Records Advisory Board. He was an important figure in the foundation and early development of the Text Encoding Initiative and active in the Association for Computers and the Humanities.\n\nIn 2005 Chesnutt was awarded the Order of the Palmetto, South Carolina's \"highest civilian honor for extraordinary lifetime achievement and service to the state and nation\".\n\nChesnutt died in Hardwick, Vermont, on December 15, 2014, of throat cancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10458499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10458499", "title": "Democratic rationalization", "text": "Democratic rationalization\n\nDemocratic rationalization is term used by Andrew Feenberg in his article \"Subversive Rationalization: Technology, Power and Democracy with technology.\" Feenberg argues against the idea of \"technological determinism\" citing flaws in its two fundamental theses.\n\nThe first is the \"thesis of unilinear progress\". This is the belief that technological progress follows a direct and predictable path from lower to higher levels of complexity and that each stage along this path is necessary for progress to occur (Feenberg 211).\n\nThe second is the \"thesis of determination by the base\". This is the concept that in a society where a technology had been introduced, that society must organize itself or adapt to the technology (Feenberg 211).\n\nIn his argument against the former thesis Feenberg says that constructivist studies of technology will lead us to realize that there is not a set path by which development of technologies occur but rather an emerging of similar technologies at the same time leading to a multiplicity of choices. These choices are made based upon certain social factors and upon examining them we will see that they are not deterministic in nature (Feenberg 212).\n\nArguing against the latter thesis, Feenberg calls to our attention social reforms that have been mandated by governments mainly in regards to the protection of its citizens and laborers. Most of the time these mandates are widely accepted after being passed through the governing body. At which point technology and industry will reform and re-evolve to meet the new standards in a way that has greater efficiency than it did so previously (Feenberg 214)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56110936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56110936", "title": "Derek R. Peterson", "text": "Derek R. Peterson\n\nDerek R. Peterson (born 1971) is an American historian specializing in the cultural history of East Africa. He is currently a professor of history and African studies at the University of Michigan.\n\nHe was the recipient of a MacArthur \"Genius Grant\" in 2017.\n\nBorn May 13, 1971, Peterson is from Maine, New York and attended Maine–Endwell High School. He studied history and political science at the University of Rochester, graduating in 1993. His interest in African studies was sparked by a trip to Kenya in his sophomore year, and at Rochester he studied under African scholars Elias Mandala and Sam Nolutshungu. After graduating, he was awarded a Fulbright grant to study in Kenya for a year. He then went on to the University of Minnesota, studying with Allen Isaacman, and obtained his PhD in 2000.\n\nPeterson taught at the College of New Jersey between 2000 and 2004. Between 2004 and 2009 he was the director of Centre for African Studies at the University of Cambridge, where he edited a series of monographs on African studies, and initiated an academic exchange programme between Cambridge and universities in Africa. He took a position at the University of Michigan in 2009, joining its newly founded African Studies Center (ASC).\n\nPeterson has been a visiting fellow at the University of Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute, was elected a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy in 2016, and was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2016. He won the African Studies Association's 2013 Hersokovits Prize for his book \"Ethnic Patriotism and the East African Revival\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35841318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35841318", "title": "Elunin culture", "text": "Elunin culture\n\nThe Elunin culture (Russian: Eлунинская культура) is an indigenous Bronze Age culture of animal breeders in the steppe and forest-steppe area of the Ob-Irtysh rivers of Altai foothill-plain zone in Siberia, developed from the local Bolshemys Eneolithic culture, dated around 2300–1700 BCE. \n\nThe monuments of this early and advanced bronze-producing culture number more than 50 settlements and cemeteries. Burial complexes include ground (non-kurgan) burial sites of Elunin, Staroaley, Tsygan Sopka, Wolf Cape, etc. The culture was named after the Elunin cemetery. The Elunin culture was discovered and described by Yu. F. Kiryushin in 1986.\n\nThe tribes of the Elunin culture, along with the Krotov and Loginov cultures, were involved in formation of the Seima-Turbinsky transcultural phenomenon of numerous bronze tools and weapons, and highly developed casting technology. \n\nFunerary monuments and settlements of the Elunin culture are known to include tools and weapons of the Seima-Turbinsky types, including knives, celts, spearheads, and molds for casting celts and spearheads.\n\nThe Elunin culture is well-studied, its dating is supported by radiocarbon measurements, the metal production tested and analyzed, animal bones investigated, and produced genetic studies. The culture was formed by interaction of migrants, who brought with them tradition of bronze metallurgy and advanced animal husbandry, with the local mix of Caucasoid-Mongoloid substrate. According to A. Tishkin, who excavated Elunin monuments, molecular testing points to interaction between migrant Caucasoid ethnic groups and indigenous Mongoloid-Caucasoid mixed populations in the foothills and plains area of the Altai's Upper Ob at the end of the 3rd millennium BCE.\n\nIn general, the migration wave of Andronovo cultural-historical community tribes pushed inhabitants of the Altai-Sayan foothills to the north toward the southern taiga zone, where their physical type (anthropologically ascended to the Southern Eurasian Anthropological Formation) conflated with local tribes (anthropologically ascended to the Northern Eurasian Anthropological Formation) and went on ethnogenesis of the Andronoid cultures. The phenotype features of Elunin people are distinctive. The Elunin culture developed from the local Bolshemys Eneolithic culture. In its formation participated a Caucasoid population of Eastern Mediterranean type, migrants from Central Asia. The migration started in the Eneolithic period and continued in the early and advanced bronze periods. Another ethnic component was associated with the East, and possibly northern Kazakhstan, they were people with ceramic comb-patch ornamentation, traceable to the nearest early Andronovo tribes of East Kazakhstan. Penetration starts in the final stages of the Elunin culture, and coincides with the area of Bolshemys settlements. The northern boundary of the penetration lies in the Novosibirsk Oblast.\n\nThe mainstay of the Elunin economy was extensive animal husbandry, illustrated by tens of thousands bones and bone fragments found in a single settlement. The composition of the herds was 60% sheep, 25% horses, and 15% cattle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1102146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102146", "title": "En'ō", "text": "En'ō\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1271947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271947", "title": "First-wave feminism", "text": "First-wave feminism\n\nFirst-wave feminism was a period of feminist activity and thought that occurred during the 19th and early 20th century throughout the Western world. It focused on legal issues, primarily on gaining the right to vote.\n\nThe term \"first-wave\" was coined in March 1968 by Martha Lear writing in \"The New York Times Magazine\", who at the same time also used the term \"second-wave feminism\". At that time, the women's movement was focused on \"de facto\" (unofficial) inequalities, which it wished to distinguish from the objectives of the earlier feminists.\n\nAccording to Miriam Schneir, Simone de Beauvoir wrote that the first woman to \"take up her pen in defense of her sex\" was Christine de Pizan in the 15th century. Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa and Modesta di Pozzo di Forzi worked in the 16th century. Marie le Jars de Gournay, Anne Bradstreet and François Poullain de la Barre's Equality of sexes came out in 1673.\n\nThe period in which Mary Wollstonecraft wrote was affected by Rousseau and the philosophy of the Enlightenment. The father of the Enlightenment defined an ideal democratic society that was based on the equality of men, where women were often discriminated against. The inherent exclusion of women from discussion was addressed by both Wollstonecraft, and her contemporaries. Wollstonecraft based her work on the ideas of Rousseau. Although at first it seems to be contradictory, Wollstonecraft's idea was to expand Rousseau's democratic society but based on gender equality.\n\nWollstonecraft published one of the first feminist treatises, \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792), in which she advocated the social and moral equality of the sexes, extending the work of her 1790 pamphlet, \"A Vindication of the Rights of Men\". Her later unfinished novel, \"\", earned her considerable criticism as she discussed women's sexual desires. She died young, and her widower, the philosopher William Godwin, quickly wrote a memoir of her that, contrary to his intentions, destroyed her reputation for generations.\n\nWollstonecraft is regarded as the \"fore-mother\" of the British feminist movement and her ideas shaped the thinking of the suffragettes, who campaigned for the women's vote.\n\nEarly Feminism was directly correlated with the abolitionist movements and as a result many famous feminists and activists began to have their voices heard. Some of these early activists include, Sojourner Truth, Elizabeth Blackwell, Jane Addams, and Dorothy Day. The first wave of feminism was primarily led by white women in the middle class, and it was not until the second wave of feminism that women of color began developing a voice. The term Feminism was created like a political illustrated ideology at that period. Feminism emerged by the speech about the reform and correction of democracy based on equalitarian conditions. \n\nThe first wave of Australian feminism, which dates back to the late 19th century, was chiefly concerned with suffrage (women's right to vote) and consequently with women's access to parliaments and other political activities.\n\nIn 1882, Rose Scott, a women's rights activist, began to hold a weekly salon meetings in her Sydney home left to her by her late mother. Through these meetings, she became well known amongst politicians, judges, philanthropists, writers and poets. In 1889, she helped to found the Women's Literary Society, which later grew into the Womanhood Suffrage League in 1891. Leading politicians hosted by Scott included Bernhard Ringrose Wise, William Holman, William Morris Hughes and Thomas Bavin, who met and discussed the drafting of the bill that eventually became the Early Closing Act of 1899.\n\nThe first women's movement was led by the \"Dansk Kvindesamfund\" (\"Danish Women's Society\"), founded in 1871. Line Luplau was one of the most notable woman in this era. Tagea Brandt was also part of this movement, and in her honor was established the Tagea Brandt Rejselegat or Travel Scholarship for women. The Dansk Kvindesamfund's efforts as a leading group of women for women led to the existence of the revised Danish constitution of 1915, giving women the right to vote and the provision of equal opportunity laws during the 1920s, which influenced the present-day legislative measures to grant women access to education, work, marital rights and other obligations.\n\nEarly New Zealand feminists and suffragettes included Maud Pember Reeves (Australian-born; later lived in London), Kate Sheppard and Mary Ann Müller. In 1893, Elizabeth Yates became Mayor of Onehunga, the first time such a post had been held by a female anywhere in the British Empire. Early university graduates were Emily Siedeberg (doctor, graduated 1895) and Ethel Benjamin (lawyer, graduated 1897). The Female Law Practitioners Act was passed in 1896 and Benjamin was admitted as a barrister and solicitor of the Supreme Court of New Zealand in 1897 (see Women's suffrage in New Zealand).\n\nAlthough in the Netherlands during the Age of Enlightenment the idea of the equality of women and men made progress, no practical institutional measures or legislation resulted. In the second half of the nineteenth century many initiatives by feminists sprung up in The Netherlands. Aletta Jacobs (1854–1929) requested and obtained as the first woman in the Netherlands the right to study at university in 1871, becoming the first female medical doctor and academic. She became a lifelong campaigner for women's suffrage, equal rights, birth control, and international peace, travelling worldwide for, e.g., the International Alliance of Women. Wilhelmina Drucker (1847–1925) was a politician, a prolific writer and a peace activist, who fought for the vote and equal rights through political and feminist organisations she founded. In 1917–1919 her goal of women's suffrage was reached. Cornelia Ramondt-Hirschmann (1871–1951), President of the Dutch Women's International League for Peace and Freedom [WILPF]Selma Meyer (1890–1941), Secretary of the Dutch Women's International League for Peace and Freedom [WILPF]\n\nWhile in some distance in culture and language, the events of the Conference of Badasht (1848) presented progress on the concerns of first-wave feminism. There is a synchronicity in time and a likeness in theme and events between Persia (later named Iran) and the United States between the conference at Badasht and the Seneca Falls Convention. First the conference happened over three weeks from late June to mid-July 1848 and the Seneca Falls Convention happened in mid-July 1848. Both conferences had women (Tahirih and Elizabeth Cady Stanton) take strong stances on the role of women in the public arena that some attending reacted to harshly. And lastly leading men present (Quddús and Frederick Douglass) supported these calls during the meetings healing the breach. Some even see a parallel in the background discussions that are partially documented to arrange how things would be brought up and settled.\n\nThe conference of Badasht is considered by Bahá'ís as a signal moment that demonstrated that Islamic Sharia law had been abrogated as well as a key demonstration of the thrust of raising the social position of women. Although the unveiling led to accusations of immorality the Báb responded by supporting her position and naming her \"the Pure\" (Táhirih). Modern women scholars review this kind of accusation as part of a pattern faced by women leaders and writers then and since in a way that Azar Nafisi says \"the Islamic regime today ... fears them and feels vulnerable in the face of a resistance that is not just political but existential.\"\nSee the Bahá'í Faith and gender equality.\n\nFeminist issues and gender roles were discussed in media and literature during the 18th century by people such as Margareta Momma, Catharina Ahlgren, Anna Maria Rückerschöld and Hedvig Charlotta Nordenflycht, but it created no movement of any kind. The first person to hold public speeches and agitate in favor of feminism was Sophie Sager in 1848, and the first organization created to deal with a women's issue was \"Svenska lärarinnors pensionsförening\" (Society for Retired Female Teachers) by Josefina Deland in 1855.\n\nIn 1856, Fredrika Bremer published her famous \"Hertha\", which aroused great controversy and created a debate referred to as the \"Hertha Debate\". The two foremost questions was to abolish coverture for unmarried women, and for the state to provide women an equivalent to a university. Both questions were met: in 1858, a reform granted unmarried women the right to apply for legal majority by a simple procedure, and in 1861, Högre lärarinneseminariet was founded as a \"Women's University\". In 1859, the first women's magazine in Sweden and the Nordic countries, the \"Tidskrift för hemmet\", was founded by Sophie Adlersparre and Rosalie Olivecrona. This has been referred to as the starting point of a women's movement in Sweden.\n\nThe organized women's movement begun in 1873, when Married Woman's Property Rights Association was co-founded by Anna Hierta-Retzius and Ellen Anckarsvärd. The prime task of the organization was to abolish coverture. In 1884, Fredrika Bremer Association was founded by Sophie Adlersparre to work for the improvement in women's rights. The second half of the 19th century saw the creation of several women's rights organisations and a considerable activity within both active organization as well as intellectual debate. The 1880s saw the so-called \"Sedlighetsdebatten\", were gender roles were discussed in literary debate in regards to sexual double standards in opposed to sexual equality. In 1902, finally, the National Association for Women's Suffrage was founded.\n\nIn 1921, women's suffrage was finally introduced. The women suffrage reform was followed by the \"Behörighetslagen\" of 1923 (Act of Access of 1923), in which males and females were formally given equal access to all professions and positions in society, the only exceptions being military and priesthood positions. The last two restrictions were removed in 1958, when women were allowed to become priests, and in a series of reforms between 1980 and 1989, when all military professions were opened to women.\n\nThe early feminist reformers were unorganized, and including prominent individuals who had suffered as victim of injustice. This included individuals such as Caroline Norton whose personal tragedy where she was unable to obtain a divorce and was denied access to her three sons by her husband, led her to a life of intense campaigning which successful led to the passing of the Custody of Infants Act 1839 and the introduced the Tender years doctrine for child custody arrangement. The Act gave married women, for the first time, a right to their children. However, because women needed to petition in the Court of Chancery, in practice few women had the financial means to petition for their rights.\n\nThe first organized movement for English feminism was the Langham Place Circle of the 1850s, which included among others Barbara Bodichon (née Leigh-Smith) and Bessie Rayner Parkes. The group campaigned for many women's causes, including improved female rights in employment, and education. It also pursued women's property rights through its Married Women's Property Committee. In 1854, Bodichon published her \"Brief Summary of the Laws of England concerning Women\", which was used by the Social Science Association after it was formed in 1857 to push for the passage of the Married Women's Property Act 1882. In 1858, Barbara Bodichon, Matilda Mary Hays and Bessie Rayner Parkes established the first feminist British periodical, the \"English Woman's Journal\", with Bessie Parkes the chief editor. The journal continued publication until 1864 and was succeeded in 1866 by the \"Englishwoman's Review\" edited until 1880 by Jessie Boucherett which continued publication until 1910. Jessie Boucherett and Adelaide Anne Proctor joined the Langham Place Circle in 1859. The group was active until 1866. Also in 1859, Jessie Boucherett, Barbara Bodichon and Adelaide Proctor formed the Society for Promoting the Employment of Women to promote the training and employment of women. The society is one of the earliest British women's organisations, and continues to operate as the registered charity \"Futures for Women\". Helen Blackburn and Boucherett established the Women's Employment Defence League in 1891, to defend women's working rights against restrictive employment legislation. They also together edited the \"Condition of Working Women and the Factory Acts\" in 1896. In the beginning of the 20th century, women's employment was still predominantly limited to factory labor and domestic work. During World War I, more women found work outside the home. As a result of the wartime experience of women in the workforce, the \"Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919\" opened professions and the civil service to women, and marriage was no longer a legal barrier to women working outside the home.\n\nIn 1918 Marie Stopes published the very influential \"Married Love\", in which she advocated gender equality in marriage and the importance of women's sexual desire. (Importation of the book into the United States was banned as obscene until 1931.)\n\nThe \"Representation of the People Act 1918\" extended the franchise to women who were at least 30 years old and they or their husbands were property holders, while the \"Parliament (Qualification of Women) Act 1918\" gave women the right to sit in Parliament, although it was only slowly that women were actually elected. In 1928, the franchise was extended to all women over 21 by the \"Representation of the People (Equal Franchise) Act 1928\", on an equal basis to men. \n\nMany feminist writers and women's rights activists argued that it was not equality to men which they needed but a recognition of what women need to fulfill their potential of their own natures, not only within the aspect of work but society and home life too. Virginia Woolf produced her essay \"A Room of One's Own\" based on the ideas of women as writers and characters in fiction. Woolf said that a woman must have money and a room of her own to be able to write.\n\n\"Woman in the Nineteenth Century\" by Margaret Fuller has been considered the first major feminist work in the United States and is often compared to Wollstonecraft's \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\". Prominent leaders of the feminist movement in the United States include Lucretia Coffin Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy Stone, and Susan B. Anthony; Anthony and other activists such as Victoria Woodhull and Matilda Joslyn Gage made attempts to cast votes prior to their legal entitlement to do so, for which many of them faced charges. Other important leaders included several women who dissented against the law in order to have their voices heard, (Sarah and Angelina Grimké), in addition to other activists such as Carrie Chapman Catt, Alice Paul, Sojourner Truth, Ida B. Wells, Margaret Sanger and Lucy Burns.\n\nFirst-wave feminism involved a wide range of women, some belonging to conservative Christian groups (such as Frances Willard and the Woman's Christian Temperance Union), others such as Matilda Joslyn Gage of the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA) resembling the radicalism of much of second-wave feminism. The majority of first-wave feminists were more moderate and conservative than radical or revolutionary—like the members of the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA) they were willing to work within the political system and they understood the clout of joining with sympathetic men in power to promote the cause of suffrage. The limited membership of the NWSA was narrowly focused on gaining a federal amendment for women's suffrage, whereas the AWSA, with ten times as many members, worked to gain suffrage on a state-by-state level as a necessary precursor to federal suffrage. The NWSA had broad goals, hoping to achieve a more equal social role for women, but the AWSA was aware of the divisive nature of many of those goals and instead chose to focus solely on suffrage. The NWSA was known for having more publicly aggressive tactics (such as picketing and hunger strikes) whereas the AWSA used more traditional strategies like lobbying, delivering speeches, applying political pressure and gathering signatures for petitions.\n\nDuring the first wave, there was a notable connection between the slavery abolition movement and the women's rights movement. Frederick Douglass was heavily involved in both movements and believed that it was essential for both to work together in order to attain true equality in regards to race and sex. Different accounts of the involvement of African-American women in the Women's Suffrage Movement are given. In a 1974 interview, Alice Paul notes that a compromise was made between southern groups to have white women march first, then men, then African-American women. In another account by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), difficulties in segregating women resulted in African-American women marching with their respective States without hindrance. Among them was Ida B. Wells-Barnett, who marched with the Illinois delegation.\n\nThe first wave of feminists, in contrast to the second wave, focused very little on the subjects of abortion, birth control, and overall reproductive rights of women. Though she never married, Anthony published her views about marriage, holding that a woman should be allowed to refuse sex with her husband; the American woman had no legal recourse at that time against rape by her husband.\n\nThe end of the first wave is often linked with the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution (1920), granting women the right to vote. This was the major victory of the movement, which also included reforms in higher education, in the workplace and professions, and in health care.\nWomen started serving on school boards and local bodies, and numbers kept increasing. This period also saw more women gaining access to higher education. In 1910, \"women were attending many leading medical schools, and in 1915 the American Medical Association began to admit women members.\" A \"Matrimonial Causes Act 1923\" gave women the right to the same grounds for divorce as men.\n\nThe rise in unemployment during the Great Depression which started in the 1920s hit women first, and when the men also lost their jobs there was further strain on families. Many women served in the armed forces during World War II, when around 300,000 American women served in the navy and army, performing jobs such as secretaries, typists and nurses.\n\n1860, New York passed a revised Married Women's Property Act which gave women shared ownership of their children, allowing them to have a say in their children's wills, wages, and granting them the right to inherit property. Further advances and setbacks were experienced in New York and other states, but with each new win the feminists were able to use it as an example to apply more leverage on unyielding legislative bodies. \n\n\n\n\nFirst-wave feminism did not offer an intersectional perspective. Gender was not thought of as a social construction, nor was the roles that each gender plays thought of as sexist. This time period also focused on biological differences, and that only the way to be considered a woman was through biology or sex. It did not consider and fight for women of color, or women of lower socioeconomic status. It also reinforced and made colonization stronger, as well increasing the eroticization of women from different nations. First-wave theorists also leave out all of the activism women of color contributed. Activists like Maria Stewart, and Frances E. W. Harper are hardly mentioned with any credit for the abolitionist or suffrage movements during this time period. First wave feminism is male centric meaning it was made in the form of the way men see women. Another issue with First-Wave feminism is that the white, middle class, women were able to decide what is a woman problem and what is not. First-wave lacked the sexual freedom women aspired to have but could not have while men could. It is also said that many of the white fundamental First Wave feminists were in alliance with women of color but stayed silent when they figured they could reach progression for middle class, white women.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1273364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1273364", "title": "First Congo War", "text": "First Congo War\n\nThe First Congo War (1996–1997) was a foreign invasion of Zaire led by Rwanda that replaced President Mobutu Sésé Seko with the rebel leader Laurent-Désiré Kabila. Destabilization in eastern Zaire resulting from the Rwandan genocide was the final factor that caused numerous internal and external factors to align against the corrupt and inept government in the capital, Kinshasa.\n\nThe new government renamed the country Democratic Republic of the Congo, but it brought little true change. Kabila alienated his Rwandan and Ugandan allies. To avert a coup, Kabila expelled all Rwandan and Ugandan forces from the Congo. This event was a major cause of the Second Congo War the following year. Some experts prefer to view the two conflicts as one war.\n\nAn ethnic Ngbandi, Mobutu came to power in 1965 and enjoyed support from the United States government because of his anti-communist stance while in office. However, Mobutu's authoritarian rule and policies allowed the Zairian state to decay, evidenced by a 65% decrease in Zairian GDP between independence in 1960 and the end of Mobutu's rule in 1997. Following the end of the Cold War \"circa\" 1992, the United States stopped supporting Mobutu in favour of what it called a \"new generation of African leaders\", including Rwanda's Paul Kagame and Uganda's Yoweri Museveni.\n\nA wave of democratisation swept across Africa during the 1990s. Under substantial internal and external pressure for a democratic transition in Zaire, Mobutu promised reform. He officially ended the one-party system he had maintained since 1967, but ultimately proved unwilling to implement broad reform, alienating allies both at home and abroad. In fact, the Zairian state had all but ceased to exist. The majority of the Zairian population relied on an informal economy for their subsistence, since the official economy was not reliable. Furthermore, the Zairian national army, \"Forces Armées Zaïroises\" (FAZ), was forced to prey upon the population for survival; Mobutu himself allegedly once asked FAZ soldiers why they needed pay when they had weapons.\n\nMobutu's rule encountered considerable internal resistance, and given the weak central state, rebel groups could find refuge in Zaire's eastern provinces, far from the capital, Kinshasa. Opposition groups included leftists who had supported Patrice Lumumba (1925–1961), as well as ethnic and regional minorities opposed to the dominance of Kinshasa. Laurent-Désiré Kabila, an ethnic Luba from Katanga province who would eventually overthrow Mobutu, had fought Mobutu's régime since its inception.\nThe inability of the Mobutuist régime to control rebel movements in its eastern provinces eventually allowed its internal and external foes to ally.\n\nTensions had existed between various ethnic groups in eastern Zaire for centuries, especially between the agrarian tribes native to Zaire and semi-nomadic Tutsi tribes that had emigrated from Rwanda at various times. The earliest of these migrants arrived before colonisation in the 1880s, followed by emigrants whom the Belgian colonizers forcibly relocated to Congo to perform manual labour (after 1908), and by another significant wave of emigrants fleeing the social revolution of 1959 that brought the Hutu to power in Kigali.\n\nTutsi who emigrated to Zaire before Congolese independence in 1960 are known as Banyamulenge, meaning \"from Mulenge\", and had the right to citizenship under Zairian law. Tutsi who emigrated to Zaire following independence are known as Banyarwanda, although the native locals often do not distinguish between the two, call them both Banyamulenge and consider them foreigners.\n\nAfter coming to power in 1965, Mobutu gave the Banyamulenge political power in the east in hopes that they, as a minority, would keep a tight grip on power and prevent more populous ethnicities from forming an opposition. This move aggravated the existing ethnic tensions by strengthening the Banyamulenge's hold over important stretches of land in North Kivu that indigenous people claimed as their own. From 1963 to 1966 the Hunde and Nande ethnic groups of North Kivu fought against Rwandan emigrants — both Tutsi and Hutu – in the Kanyarwandan War, which involved several massacres.\n\nDespite a strong Rwandan presence in Mobutu's government, in 1981, Zaire adopted a restrictive citizenship law which denied the Banyamulenge and Banyarwanda citizenship and therewith all political rights. Though never enforced, the law greatly angered individuals of Rwandan descent and contributed to a rising sense of ethnic hatred. From 1993 to 1996 Hunde, Nande, and Nyanga youth regularly attacked the Banyamulenge, leading to a total of 14,000 deaths. In 1995 the Zairian Parliament ordered all peoples of Rwandan or Burundian descent repatriated to their countries of origin, including the Banyamulenge. Due to political exclusion and ethnic violence, as early as 1991 the Banyamulenge developed ties to the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), a mainly Tutsi rebel movement based in Uganda but with aspirations to power in Rwanda.\n\nThe deciding event in precipitating the war was the genocide in neighbouring Rwanda in 1994, which sparked a mass exodus of refugees known as the Great Lakes refugee crisis. During the 100-day genocide, hundreds of thousands of Tutsis and sympathizers were massacred at the hands of predominantly Hutu aggressors. The genocide ended when the Hutu government in Kigali was overthrown by the Tutsi-dominated Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF).\n\nOf those who fled Rwanda during the crisis, about 1.5 million settled in eastern Zaire. These refugees included Tutsi who fled the Hutu \"génocidaires\" as well as one million Hutus that fled the Tutsi RPF's subsequent retaliation. Prominent among the latter group were the \"génocidaires\" themselves, such as elements of the former Rwandan Army, \"\" (FAR), and independent Hutu extremist groups known as \"Interahamwe\". Often, these Hutu forces allied themselves with local Mai Mai militias, who granted them access to mines and weapons. Though these were initially self-defense organizations, they quickly became aggressors.\n\nThe Hutu set up camps in eastern Zaire from which they attacked both the newly arrived Rwandan Tutsi as well as the Banyamulenge and Banyarwanda. These attacks caused about one hundred deaths a month during the first half of 1996. Furthermore, the newly arrived militants were intent on returning to power in Rwanda and began launching attacks against the new regime in Kigali, which represented a serious security threat to the infant state. Not only was the Mobutu government incapable of controlling the former \"génocidaires\" for previously mentioned reasons but actually supported them in training and supplying for an invasion of Rwanda, forcing Kigali to act.\n\nGiven the exacerbated ethnic tensions and the lack of government control in the past, Rwanda took action against the security threat posed by \"génocidaires\" who had found refuge in eastern Zaire. The government in Kigali began forming Tutsi militias for operations in Zaire as early as 1995 and chose to act following an exchange of fire between Rwandan Tutsi and Zairian Green Berets that marked the outbreak of the Banyamulenge Rebellion on 31 August 1996.\n\nWhile there was general unrest in eastern Zaire, the rebellion was probably not a grassroots movement; Uganda president Yoweri Museveni, who supported and worked closely with Rwanda in the First Congo War, later recalled that the rebellion was incited by Zairian Tutsi who had been recruited by the Rwandan Patriotic Army (RPA). The initial goal of the Banyamulenge Rebellion was to seize power in Zaire's eastern Kivu provinces and combat the extremist Hutu forces attempting to continue the genocide in their new home. However, the rebellion did not remain Tutsi-dominated for long. Mobutu's harsh and selfish rule created enemies in virtually all sectors of Zairian society. As a result, the new rebellion benefited from massive public support and grew to be a general revolution rather than a mere Banyamulenge uprising.\n\nBanyamulenge elements and non-Tutsi militias coalesced into the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo (AFDL) under the leadership of Laurent-Désiré Kabila, who had been a long-time opponent of the Mobutu government and was a leader of one of the three main rebel groups that founded the AFDL. While the AFDL was an ostensibly Zairian rebel movement, Rwanda had played a key role in its formation. Observers of the war, as well as the Rwandan Defense Minister and Vice-President at the time, Paul Kagame, claim that the AFDL was formed in and directed from Kigali and contained not only Rwandan-trained troops but also regulars of the RPA.\n\nAccording to expert observers, as well as Kagame himself, Rwanda played the largest role of a foreign actor, if not the largest role of all, in the First Congo War. Kigali was instrumental in the formation of the AFDL and sent its own troops to fight alongside the rebels. While its actions were originally sparked by the security threat posed by the Zairian-based \"génocidaires,\" Kigali was pursuing multiple goals during its invasion of Zaire.\n\nThe first and foremost of these was the suppression of \"génocidaires\" who had been launching attacks against the new Rwandan state from Zaire. Kagame claimed that Rwandan agents had discovered the plans to invade Rwanda with support from Mobutu; in response, Kigali began its intervention with the intention of dismantling the refugee camps in which the \"génocidaires\" often took refuge and destroying the structure of these anti-Rwandan elements.\n\nA second goal cited by Kagame, was the overthrow of Mobutu. While partially a means to minimize the threat in eastern Zaire, the new Rwandan state also sought to set up a puppet regime in Kinshasa. This goal was not particularly threatening to other states in the region because it was ostensibly a means to securing Rwandan security and because many of them also opposed Mobutu. Kigali was further aided by the tacit support of the United States, which supported Kagame as a member of the new generation of African leaders.\n\nHowever, the true intentions of Rwanda are not entirely clear. Some authors have proposed that dismantling refugee camps was a means of replenishing Rwanda's depleted population and workforce following the genocide; because the destruction of the camps was followed by forced repatriation of Tutsi regardless of whether they were Rwandan or Zairian. The intervention may also have been motivated by revenge; the Rwandan forces, as well as the AFDL, massacred retreating Hutu refugees in several known instances. A commonly cited factor for Rwandan actions is that the RPF, which had recently come to power in Kigali, had come to see itself as the protector of the Tutsi nation and was therefore partially acting in defense of its Zairian brethren.\n\nRwanda possibly also harbored ambitions to annex portions of eastern Zaire. Pasteur Bizimungu, president of Rwanda from 1994–2000, presented the then-US ambassador to Rwanda, Robert Gribbin, with the idea of a \"Greater Rwanda.\" This idea purports that the ancient state of Rwanda included parts of eastern Zaire that should actually belong to Rwanda. However, it appears that Rwanda never seriously attempted to annex these territories. The history of conflict in the Congo is often associated with illegal resource exploitation but, although Rwanda did benefit financially by plundering Zaire's wealth, this is not usually considered their initial motivation for Rwandan intervention in the First Congo War.\n\nAs a close ally of the RPF, Uganda also played a major role in the First Congo War. Prominent members of the RPF had fought alongside Yoweri Museveni in the Ugandan Bush War that brought him to power, and Museveni allowed the RPF to use Uganda as a base during the 1990 offensive into Rwanda and subsequent civil war. Given their historical ties, the Rwandan and Ugandan governments were closely allied and Museveni worked closely with Kagame throughout the First Congo War. Ugandan soldiers were present in Zaire throughout the conflict and Museveni likely helped Kagame plan and direct the AFDL.\n\nLt. Col. James Kabarebe of the AFDL, for example, was a former member of Uganda's National Resistance Army, the military wing of the rebel movement that brought Museveni to power, and French and Belgian intelligence reported that 15,000 Ugandan-trained Tutsi fought for the AFDL. However, Uganda did not support Rwanda in all aspects of the war. Museveni was reportedly much less inclined to overthrow Mobutu, preferring to keep the rebellion in the East where the former \"génocidaires\" were operating.\n\nAngola remained on the sidelines until 1997, but its entrance into the fray greatly increased the already superior strength of anti-Mobutu forces. The Angolan government chose to act primarily through Katangese \"gendarmes\" called the \"Tigres\", proxy groups formed from the remnants of police units exiled from Zaire, fighting to return to their homeland. Luanda did also deploy regular troops. Angola chose to participate in the First Congo War because members of Mobutu's government were directly involved in supplying the Angolan rebel group, UNITA.\n\nIt is unclear exactly how the government benefited from this relationship, other than personal enrichment for several officials, but it is certainly possible that Mobutu was unable to control the actions of some members of his government. Regardless of the reasoning in Kinshasa, Angola entered the war on the side of the rebels and was determined to overthrow the Mobutu government, which it saw as the only way to address the threat posed by the Zairian-UNITA relationship.\n\nDue to its ties to the Mobutu government, UNITA also participated in the First Congo War. The greatest impact that it had on the war was probably that it gave Angola reason to join the anti-Mobutu coalition. However, UNITA forces fought alongside FAZ forces in at least several instances. Among other examples, Kagame claimed that his forces fought a pitched battle against UNITA near Kinshasa towards the end of the war.\n\nNumerous other external actors played lesser roles in the First Congo War. Burundi, which had recently come under the rule of a pro-Tutsi leader, supported Rwandan and Ugandan involvement in Zaire but provided very limited military support. Zambia and Zimbabwe also gave measured amounts of military support to the rebel movement. Eritrea, an ally of Rwanda under Kagame, sent an entire battalion of its army to support the invasion of Zaire. Likewise, Ethiopia, and the South Sudanese rebel army, the SPLA, all provided financial or moral support to the anti-Mobutu coalition. Other than from UNITA, Mobutu also received some aid from Sudan, whom Mobutu had long supported against the SPLA, though the exact amount of aid is unclear and ultimately was unable to hinder the advance of opposing forces. Zaire also employed foreign mercenaries from several African and European countries.\n\nWith active support from Rwanda, Uganda, and Eritrea, Kabila's AFDL was able to capture 800 x 100 km of territory along the border with Rwanda, Uganda, and Burundi by 25 December 1996. This occupation temporarily satisfied the rebels, because it gave them power in the east and allowed them to defend themselves against the former \"génocidaires\". Likewise, the external actors had successfully crippled the ability of the same \"génocidaires\" to use Zaire as a base for attacks. There was a pause in the rebel advance following the acquisition of this buffer territory that lasted until Angola entered the war in February 1997.\n\nDuring this time, Rwanda destroyed refugee camps the \"génocidaires\" had been using as safe-bases, and forcibly repatriated Tutsi to Rwanda. It also captured many lucrative diamond and coltan mines, which it later resisted relinquishing. Rwandan and aligned forces committed multiple atrocities, mainly against Hutu refugees. The true extent of the abuses is unknown because the AFDL and RPF carefully managed NGO and press access to areas where atrocities were thought to have occurred. However Amnesty International said as many as 200,000 Rwandese Hutu refugees were massacred by them and the Rwandan Defence Forces and aligned forces. The United Nations similarly documented mass killings of civilians by Rwandan, Ugandan and the AFDL soldiers in the DRC Mapping Exercise Report.\n\nThere are two explanations for the restart of the rebel advance in 1997. The first, and most probable, is that Angola had joined the anti-Mobutu coalition, giving it numbers and strength far superior to the FAZ, and demanding that Mobutu be removed from power. Kagame presents another, possibly secondary, reason for the march on Kinshasa: that the employment of Serbian mercenaries in the battle for Walikale proved that \"Mobutu intended to wage real war against Rwanda.\" According to this logic, Rwanda's initial concerns had been to manage the security threat in eastern Zaire but it was now forced to dispose of the hostile government in Kinshasa.\n\nWhatever the case, once the advance resumed in 1997, there was virtually no meaningful resistance from what was left of Mobutu's army. Kabila's forces were only held back by the dreadful state of Zaire's infrastructure. In some areas, no real roads existed; the only means of transport were infrequently used dirt paths. The AFDL committed grave human rights violations, such as the carnage at a refugee camp of Hutus at Tingi-Tingi near Kisangani, where tens of thousands of refugees were massacred.\n\nComing from the east, the AFDL advanced westward in two pincer movements. The northern one took Kisangani, Boende, and Mbandaka, while the southern one took Bakwanga, and Kikwit. Around this time, Sudan attempted to coordinate with remnants of the FAZ and White Legion that were retreating northward to escape the AFDL. This was to prevent Zaire from becoming a safe haven for the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) and its allies, which were fighting the Sudanese government in the Second Sudanese Civil War at the time. The Mobutu-loyal forces were collapsing so quickly, however, that they could not prevent the AFDL, SPLA and Ugandan military from occupying northeastern Zaire. Sudan-allied Ugandan insurgent groups which had been based in the region were forced to retreat into southern Sudan alongside FAZ troops that had not yet surrendered and a smaller number of Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) soldiers. They attempted to reach the SAF base at Yei, not knowing that it had already been overrun by the SPLA. The column of about 4,000 fighters and their families was ambushed by the SPLA on 12 March, and mostly destroyed; 2,000 were killed, and over 1,000 captured. The survivors fled to Juba. Meanwhile, the AFDL reached Kinshasa by the middle of May. Another AFDL group captured Lubumbashi on April 19 and moved on by air to Kinshasa. Mobutu fled Kinshasa on May 16, and the \"libérateurs\" entered the capital without serious resistance. The AFDL-allied Eritrean battalion had aided the rebels during the entire 1,500 km advance despite being not well equipped for the environment and lacking almost all logistical support. By the time the Eritreans arrived at Kinshasa along the AFDL, they were exhausted, starving and ill, having suffered heavy causalities as result. They had to be evacuated from the country by the war's end. \n\nThroughout the rebel advance, there were attempts by the international community to negotiate a settlement. However, the AFDL did not take these negotiations seriously but instead partook so as to avoid international criticism for being unwilling to attempt a diplomatic solution while actually continuing its steady advance. The FAZ, which had been weak all along, was unable to mount any serious resistance to the strong AFDL and its foreign sponsors.\n\nMobutu fled first to his palace at Gbadolite and then to Rabat, Morocco, where he died on 7 September 1997. Kabila proclaimed himself president on 17 May, and immediately ordered a violent crackdown to restore order. He then attempted to reorganise the nation as the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).\n\nThe new Congolese state under Kabila's rule proved to be disappointingly similar to Zaire under Mobutu. The economy remained in a state of severe disrepair and deteriorated further under Kabila's corrupt rule. He failed to improve the government, which continued to be weak and corrupt. Instead, Kabila began a vigorous centralisation campaign, bringing renewed conflict with minority groups in the east who demanded autonomy.\n\nKabila also came to be seen as an instrument of the foreign regimes that put him in power. To counter this image and increase domestic support, he began to turn against his allies abroad. This culminated in the expulsion of all foreign forces from the DRC on 26 July 1998. The states with armed forces still in the DRC begrudgingly complied although some of them saw this as undermining their interests, particularly Rwanda, which had hoped to install a proxy-regime in Kinshasa.\n\nSeveral factors that led to the First Congo War remained in place after Kabila's accession to power. Prominent among these were ethnic tensions in eastern DRC, where the government still had little control. There the historical animosities remained and the opinion that Banyamulenge, as well as all Tutsi, were foreigners was reinforced by the foreign occupation in their defence. Furthermore, Rwanda had not been able to satisfactorily address its security concerns. By forcibly repatriating refugees, Rwanda had imported the conflict.\n\nThis manifested itself in the form of a predominantly Hutu insurgency in Rwanda's western provinces that was supported by extremist elements in eastern DRC. Without troops in the DRC, Rwanda was unable to successfully combat the insurgents. In the first days of August 1998, two brigades of the new Congolese army rebelled against the government and formed rebel groups that worked closely with Kigali and Kampala. This marked the beginning of the Second Congo War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21920098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21920098", "title": "Francisco Antonio de Fuentes y Guzmán", "text": "Francisco Antonio de Fuentes y Guzmán\n\nFuentes y Guzmán was born to a wealthy family in Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala (modern Antigua Guatemala) in 1643. He was the great-great-grandson of the conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo, historian of the Indies. Fuentes y Guzmán was a nobleman and a member of the ruling \"criollo\" caste. In 1661, at the age of eighteen, Fuentes y Guzmán was given the position of Regidor Perpetuo de Guatemala (permanent councillor on the town council of Santiago). At various times he served as magistrate (\"alcalde\") in Santiago, and was later the \"alcalde mayor\" of Totonicapán, and then of Sonsonate. He worked many years as the \"Cronista del Ayuntamiento\" (Chronicler of the Municipal Government). He is thought to have died in Sonsonate in 1700.\n\nThe \"Recordación Florida\", also called \"Historia de Guatemala\" (\"History of Guatemala\"), is Fuentes y Guzmán's only surviving work. It was the first Guatemalan history book written by a colonial Guatemalan author of Spanish descent. The first portion of the work, comprising the first sixteen books, was written by 1690. Fuentes y Guzmán sent it to Spain in apparently the vain hope of being named as Chronicler of the Kingdom of Guatemala. He continued writing the work, with the addition of a seventeenth book to the first part, and a second part comprising 14 more books. The \"Recordación Florida\" regarded as one of the most important works of Guatemalan history. In the book, he describes the customs and rites of indigenous people, the Spanish conquest of Guatemala, and notable facts in the history of Guatemala until the 17th century.\n\nThe of the \"Recordación Florida\" was published in Madrid in 1882-1883. The complete text was stored in the archive of the Municipality of Guatemala, and was published in Guatemala in 1932-1933. Large portions of the work were reproduced in the writing of diocesan priest Domingo de Juarros, published in the early 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "22140091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22140091", "title": "Heather McKillop", "text": "Heather McKillop\n\nHeather Irene McKillop is a Canadian-American archaeologist, academic, and Maya scholar, noted in particular for her research into ancient Maya coastal trade routes, seafaring, littoral archaeology, and the long-distance exchange of commodities in pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. Since the 2004 discovery of ancient Maya wooden architecture and a wooden canoe paddle preserved in a peat bog below the sea floor, McKillop and her team of LSU students and colleagues have been focused on the discovery, mapping, excavation, sediment coring and analyses of the waterlogged remains. She started the DIVA Lab (Digital Imaging and Visualization in Archaeology) in 2008 to make 3D digital images of the waterlogged wood, pottery, and other artifacts from the underwater Maya sites--Paynes Creek Salt Works. McKillop is Thomas and Lillian Landrum Alumni Professor in the Department of Geography and Anthropology at Louisiana State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2794623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794623", "title": "Huangdi Neijing", "text": "Huangdi Neijing\n\nHuangdi Neijing (), literally the Inner Canon of the Yellow Emperor or Esoteric Scripture of the Yellow Emperor, is an ancient Chinese medical text that has been treated as the fundamental doctrinal source for Chinese medicine for more than two millennia. The work is composed of two texts—each of eighty-one chapters or treatises in a question-and-answer format between the mythical Yellow Emperor and six of his equally legendary ministers.\n\nThe first text, the \"Suwen\" (素問), also known as \"Basic Questions\", covers the theoretical foundation of Chinese Medicine and its diagnostic methods. The second and generally less referred-to text, the \"Lingshu\" (靈樞; \"Spiritual Pivot\"), discusses acupuncture therapy in great detail. Collectively, these two texts are known as the \"Neijing\" or \"Huangdi Neijing.\" In practice, however, the title \"Neijing\" often refers only to the more influential \"Suwen\".\n\nTwo other texts also carried the prefix \"Huangdi Neijing\" in their titles: the \"Mingtang\" (明堂; \"Hall of Light\") and the \"Taisu\" (太素; \"Grand Basis\"), both of which have survived only partially.\n\nThe earliest mention of the \"Huangdi Neijing\" was in the bibliographical chapter of the \"Hanshu\" 漢書 (or \"Book of Han\", completed in 111 CE), next to a \"Huangdi Waijing\" 黃帝外經 (“Outer Canon of the Yellow Emperor”) that is now lost. A scholar-physician called Huangfu Mi 皇甫謐 (215-282 CE) was the first to claim that the \"Huangdi Neijing\" in 18 juan 卷 (or volumes) that was listed in the \"Hanshu\" bibliography corresponded with two different books that circulated in his own time: the \"Suwen\" and the \"Zhenjing\" 鍼經 (“Needling Canon”), each in 9 juan. Since scholars believe that \"Zhenjing\" was one of the \"Lingshu\"'s earlier titles, they agree that the Han-dynasty \"Huangdi Neijing\" was made of two different texts that are close in content to the works we know today as the \"Suwen\" and the \"Lingshu\".\n\nThe \"Yellow Emperor's Inner Classic\" (\"Huangdi Neijing\", 黃帝內經) is the most important ancient text in Chinese medicine as well as a major book of Daoist theory and lifestyle. The text is structured as a dialogue between the Yellow Emperor and one of his ministers or physicians, most commonly Qíbó (), but also Shàoyú (). One possible reason for using this device was for the (anonymous) authors to avoid attribution and blame (see pages 8-14 in Unschuld for an exposition of this).\n\nThe \"Neijing\" departs from the old shamanistic beliefs that disease was caused by demonic influences. Instead the natural effects of diet, lifestyle, emotions, environment, and age are the reason diseases develop. According to the Neijing, the universe is composed of various forces and principles, such as Yin and yang, Qi and the Five Elements (or phases). These forces can be understood via rational means and man can stay in balance or return to balance and health by understanding the laws of these natural forces. Man is a microcosm that mirrors the larger macrocosm. The principles of yin and yang, the five elements, the environmental factors of wind, damp, hot and cold and so on that are part of the macrocosm equally apply to the human microcosm.\n\nThe work is generally dated by scholars to between the late Warring States period (475-221 BC) and the Han dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE).\n\n\"Celestial Lancets\" (1980, by Joseph Needham and Lu Gwei-Djen) states that the consensus of scholarly opinion is that the \"Suwen\" belongs to the second century BCE, and cites evidence that the \"Suwen\" is earlier than the first of the pharmaceutical natural histories, the 神農本草經 \"Shennong Bencao Jing\" (\"Divine Farmer's Classic of the Materia Medica\"). So suggestive are parallels with third and fourth century BCE literature that doubt arises as to whether the \"Suwen\" might be better ascribed to the third century BCE, implying that certain portions may be of that date. The dominant role the theories of yin/yang and the five elements play in the physiology and pathology indicates that these medical theories are not older than about 320 BCE.\n\nHistorian of science Nathan Sivin (University of Pennsylvania) is of the opinion (1998) that the \"Suwen\" and \"Lingshu\" probably date to the first century BCE. He is also of the opinion that \"no available translation is reliable.\"\n\nThe German scholar Paul U. Unschuld says several 20th-century scholars hypothesize that the language and ideas of the \"Neijing Suwen\" were composed between 400 BCE and 260 CE, and provides evidence that only a small portion of the received text transmits concepts from before the second century BCE. The work subsequently underwent major editorial changes.\n\n, a fourteenth-century literary critic, was of the opinion that the \"Suwen\" was compiled by several authors over a long period. Its contents were then brought together by Confucian scholars in the Han Dynasty era.\n\nScholars of excavated medical texts Donald Harper, Vivienne Lo and Li Jianmin agree that the systematic medical theory in the Neijing shows significant variance from texts found in the Mawangdui tomb (which was sealed in 186 BCE). Because of this, they consider the Neijing to have been compiled after the Mawangdui texts.\n\nIn 762 CE, Wang Bing finished his revision of the \"Suwen\" after labouring for twelve years. Wang Bing collected the various versions and fragments of the \"Suwen\" and reorganized it into the present eighty-one chapters (treatises) format. Treatises seventy-two and seventy-three are lost and only the titles are known. Originally his changes were all done in red ink, but later copyists incorporated some of his additions into the main text. However, the 1053 version discussed below restored almost all of his annotations and they are now written in small characters next to the larger characters that comprise the main or unannotated \"Suwen\" text. (See Unschuld, pages 40 and 44.)\n\nAccording to Unschuld (pages 39 and 62) Wang Bing's version of the \"Suwen\" was based on Quan Yuanqi's (early sixth century) commented version of the \"Suwen\" consisting of nine \"juan\" (books) and sixty-nine discourses. Wang Bing made corrections, added two \"lost\" discourses, added seven comprehensive discourses on the five phases and six qi, inserted over 5000 commentaries and reorganized the text into twenty-four juan (books) and eighty-one treatises. (See Unschuld pages 24, 39 and 46.)\n\nIn his preface to his version of the \"Suwen\", Wang Bing goes into great detail listing the changes he made. (See Veith, Appendix II and Unschuld pages 41–43.)\n\nNot much is known about Wang Bing's life but he authored several books. A note in the preface left by the later editors of the \"Chong Guang Bu Zhu Huangdi Neijing Suwen\" (version compiled by 1053 editorial committee) which was based on an entry in \"Tang Ren Wu Zhi\" (\"Record on Tang [Dynasty] Personalities\") states that he was an official with the rank of \"tai pu ling\" and died after a long life of more than eighty years. (See Unschuld, page 40. Also see Veith, Appendix I for a translation of an abstract from the 四庫全書總目提要 \"Siku Quanshu Zongmu Tiyao\" about both the \"Huangdi Suwen\" and Wang Bing.)\n\nThe \"authoritative version\" used today, \"Chong Guang Bu Zhu Huangdi Neijing Suwen\" 重廣補註黃帝內經素問 (\"Huangdi Neijing Suwen: Again Broadly Corrected [and] Annotated\"), is the product of the eleventh-century Imperial Editorial Office (beginning in 1053 CE) and was based considerably on Wang Bing's 762 CE version. (See pages 33–66 in Unschuld) Some of the leading scholars who worked on this version of the \"Suwen\" were 林億 Lin Yi, 孫奇 Sun Qi, 高保衡 Gao Baoheng and 孫兆 Sun Zhao.\n\nFor images of the \"Chong Guang Bu Zhu Huangdi Neijing Suwen\" printed in the Ming Dynasty, (1368-1644 CE) see the external links section below.\n\nThe Chinese medicine history scholars Paul Unschuld, Hermann Tessenow and their team at the Institute for the History of Medicine at Munich University have translated the \"Neijing Suwen\" into English, including an analysis of the historical and structural layers of the \"Suwen\". This work was published by the University Of California Press in July, 2011.\n\nSignificant portions of the above \"Suwen\" translation (but with only a fraction of the annotations) are currently available in \"Huang Di nei jing su wen: Nature, Knowledge, Imagery in an Ancient Chinese Medical Text.\" (See Unschuld in cited references below.)\n\n\nSample Text from \"Suwen\": Beginning of Treatise Seventeen\n脈 要 精 微 論 篇 第 十 七\n\n黃 帝 問 曰 ： 診 法 何 如 ？ 岐 伯 對 曰 ： 診 法 常 以 平 旦 ，陰 氣 未 動 ， 陽 氣 未 散 ， 飲 食 未 進 ， 經 脈 未 盛 ， 絡 脈 調 勻， 氣 血 未 亂 ， 故 乃 可 診 有 過 之 脈 。\n\n切 脈 動 靜 而 視 精 明 ， 察 五 色 ， 觀 五 臟 有 餘 不 足 ，六 腑 強 弱 ， 形 之 盛 衰 ， 以 此 參 伍 ， 決 死 生 之 分 。\n\nWikipedia Translation\nTreatise Seventeen. Discussions on the Essential and Finely Discernible Aspects of the Pulse\n\nThe Yellow Thearch inquired: \"How is an examination <of the pulse> done?\"\n\n[Minister] Qibo answered: \"The examination (zhen fa) [of the pulse] is usually [done] at dawn. The yin qi has not yet stirred, the yang qi has not yet dispersed, food and drink have not yet been taken, the [main] channel vessels [of qi and blood] are not yet overly active, the [qi and blood of the] network vessels [that branch out and enmesh the body] are harmonious and stable, and the qi and blood are not yet disordered -- thus, for these reasons, an abnormal pulse can be detected.\n\n\"Feel-closely the movement [and] the non movement of the pulse, then observe the essence clearness-brightness (jing ming). Examine the five colors [of the complexion] [and] inspect whether the five zang organs (internal yin organs) have overflowing-abundance [or are] insufficient, [if] the six fu organs (yang organs) [are] strong-and-powerful [or] weak, [if] the physical body <[and] qi> are flourishing [or] are decaying -- [then] integrate this set [of observations] to distinguish the demarcation [between] death [and] life.\nPing dan 平旦 is a Classical Chinese compound meaning: \"dawn,\" but it is sometimes translated as: \"calm dawn,\" but this is a literal character-by-character translation, \"dawn\" is more accurate. Wiseman et al. in \"Fundamentals of Chinese Medicine: Zhong Yi Xue Ji Chu\", page 116: quotes part of the above \"Suwen\" passage.\nWhile it is true that ping dan 平旦 is an ancient term for the third earthly branch time period which prior to the Song dynasty corresponded to 3-5 a.m. (Sôma, page 904), the other occurrences of ping dan in the \"Neijing\" (such as in treatise four) unambiguously mean \"dawn,\" not the third earthly branch. Further, the second paragraph in the above translation states the doctor is to observe the five colors of the patient, something that is not going to be accurately done at 3:00 - 5:00 a.m. using artificial light from an oil lamp or candle. To correctly perceive the colors of the complexion without bias, natural lighting (i.e., full spectrum sunlight) would be needed.\n\nZhen fa 診法, can be translated as: \"examination methods\", \"examination(s)\" or \"laws of examination.\" Zhen 診 means: examine (verb) or examination (noun) and fa 法 is often translated as: law or method. In this translation, zhen fa 診法 is translated more idiomatically as \"examination\" as opposed to a more literal reading as a compound meaning: \"examination method\" or \"examination methods.\"\n\nQie mai dong jing 切脈動靜: \"Feel-closely the movement [and] non movement (stillness) of the pulse,\" where dong jing 動靜 (movement [and] stillness) is likely a polar binome and thus denotes the whole action of the pulse and therefore this phrase could be translated as: \"Feel-closely the entire pulse,\" or \"Feel-closely the entire action of the pulse.\" Qie mai is often translated simply as: \"feel the pulse.\" (See Mathews' page 111, for example.) However, qie 切 also means: \"intimate,\" so the term \"qie mai\" suggests feeling the pulse in a close or intimate manner.\n\nJing ming 精明, is often translated as eyes or pupils. It may also mean the essence of the mind or emotions. Thus, it may be referring to judging the mental and emotional state of the patient as well as the general level of vitality and spirit present as observed via the patient's eyes.\n\nIn treatise seventeen we have this passage\n\nTranslation and notes by Robert A. Threlfall, January 24, 2006.\n\nUnschuld's Translation (page 242)\nThe laws of diagnosis [are as follows].\nAs a rule, it is at dawn,\nbefore yin qi has begun its movement,\nbefore yang qi is dispersed,\nbefore beverages and food have been consumed,\nbefore the conduit vessels are filled to abundance,\nwhen the [contents of the] network vessels are balanced,\nbefore the qi and blood move in disorder,\nthat, hence, one can diagnose an abnormal [movement in the] vessels.\n\nSqueeze the vessels, whether [their movement] is excited or quiet, and observe\nthe essence-brilliance.\nInvestigate the five complexions.\n\nObserve\nwhether the five depots have a surplus or an insufficiency,\nwhether the six palaces are strong or weak, and\nwhether the physical appearance is marked by abundance or decays.\n\nAll this is brought together to reach a conclusion [enabling one] to differentiate\nbetween [the patient's] death and survival.\n\nWu and Wu's Translation (page 86)\n\nYellow Emperor asked: \"What is the diagnostic method in pulse palpation?\" Qibo answered: \"The palpation of pulse should be carried on in early morning, when the Yang-energy has not yet stirred, the Yin-energy has not yet been dispersed thoroughly, the food and drink of man have not yet been taken, the channel-energy then is not in hyperactivity, the energies of the collateral branches of the large channels are in harmony and the energy and blood have not yet been disturbed. In this situation can the pulse condition be diagnosed effectively.\n\n\"At the same time of diagnosing the dynamic and static variations of the patient's pulse, his pupils and complexion should be inspected, so as to distinguish whether his energies of the five viscera are abundant or not, his six hollow organs are strong or not, his physique and energy are prosperous or not. When these aspects are considered comprehensively, one can judge the date of the death or survival of the patient.\nVeith's Translation (page 159)\n17. Treatise on the Importance of the Pulse and the Subtle Skill of its Examination\n\nThe Yellow Emperor asked: \"What is the way of medical treatment.?\"\n\nCh'i Po answered: \"The way of medical treatment is to be consistent. It should be executed at dawn when the breath of Yin [the female principle in nature] has not yet begun to stir and when the breath of Yang [the male principle of life and light] has not yet begun to diffuse; when food and drink have not yet been taken, when the twelve main vessels (經 脈) are not yet abundant and when the \"lo\" vessels (絡 脈) are stirred up thoroughly; when vigor and energy are not yet disturbed—at that particular time one should examine what has happened to the pulse.\n\n\"One should feel whether the pulse is in motion or whether it is still and observe attentively and with skill. One should examine the five colors and the five viscera, whether they suffer from excess or whether they show insufficiency, and one should examine the six bowels whether they are strong or weak. One should investigate the appearance of the body whether it is flourishing or deteriorating. One should use all five examinations and combine their results, and then one will be able to decide upon the share of life and death.\n\n\nAll Chinese characters are in traditional (complex) form, except for Chinese book titles which are as published and thus in simplified form. All pinyin terms are rendered without tone marks, but are otherwise according to the orthographic rules in Appendix I of \"ABC Chinese-English Comprehensive Dictionary\" but contemporary pinyin book titles are as published.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3420635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3420635", "title": "Jacqueline de Romilly", "text": "Jacqueline de Romilly\n\nJacqueline Worms de Romilly (; née David, 26 March 1913 – 18 December 2010) was a Franco-Greek philologist, classical scholar and fiction writer. She was the first woman nominated to the Collège de France, and in 1988, the second woman to enter the Académie française.\n\nShe is primarily known for her work on the culture and language of ancient Greece, and in particular on Thucydides.\n\nBorn in Chartres, Eure-et-Loir, she studied at the Lycée Molière. As a schoolgirl, she became the first female to qualify for a prize in the Concours général, taking the first prize in Latin to French translation and second prize in Ancient Greek in 1930. She then prepared for the École Normale Supérieure at the Lycée Louis-le-Grand. She entered the class of 1933 of the ENS Ulm. She passed the \"agrégation\" in Classics in 1936; however, because she was of Jewish ancestry, the Vichy government suspended her from her teaching duties during the Occupation of France. She became a doctor of letters at the University of Paris in 1947. Her doctoral thesis, a \"masterful\" treatment of Athenian imperialism in Thucydides, was published as \"Thucydide et l'impérialisme athénien\", and subsequently translated into English as \"Thucydides and Athenian Imperialism\".\n\nAfter being a schoolteacher, she became a professor at Lille University and subsequently at the Sorbonne, between 1957 and 1973. She later was promoted to the chair of Greek and the development of moral and political thought at the Collège de France — the first woman nominated to this prestigious institution. In 1988, she was the second woman (after Marguerite Yourcenar) to enter the Académie française, being elected to Chair #7, which was previously occupied by André Roussin.\n\nIn 1995, she obtained Greek nationality and in 2000 was named as an Ambassador of Hellenism by the Greek government. A one-time president of the Association Guillaume Budé, she remained an honorary president until her death at a hospital in Boulogne-Billancourt at the age of 97.\n\nAfter having only received baptism in 1940, she fully converted to Maronite Catholicism in 2008, aged 95.\n\nDe Romilly's two monographs on the ancient Greek historian Thucydides have been credited with \"alter[ing] the landscape of Thucydidean scholarship\" and \"the beginning of a new era\". In 2002, Danish classical scholar Anders Holm Rasmussen described her views on Thucydides' ideology of empire as still \"one of the most important viewpoints\" with which modern scholars can engage. Published first in 1956, her work \"Histoire et raison chez Thucydide\" is still in print in the original French today, and was translated into English as \"The Mind of Thucydides\" after her death.\n\nDe Romilly also published outside the field of Greek historiography. In recent years, the value of her work \"Time in Greek Tragedy\" has been recognized by scholars working not only on Greek drama but also on Aristotle's metaphysics of time.\n\nIn 2016, Rosie Wyles and Edith Hall edited a volume called \"Women Classical Scholars: Unsealing the Fountain from the Renaissance to Jacqueline de Romilly\", a history of pioneering women born between the Renaissance and 1913 who played significant roles in the history of classical scholarship.\n\n\nDe Romilly's work was largely published in French, but some of her works were written in or translated into English:\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n\n"}
{"id": "28704306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28704306", "title": "Jerusalem of the West", "text": "Jerusalem of the West\n\n\"Jerusalem of the West\" was a term historically used by Jews to describe a non-Jewish city west of Jerusalem where the Jewish diaspora nonetheless enjoyed significant influence, freedom (of religion), and numbers, usually in Western Europe or Maghreb. Possibly its most persistent use was that of the Jews of Amsterdam.\n\nIn Europe, Amsterdam was commonly associated with the term and was called \"Jeruzalem van het Westen\" in Dutch. Sephardic Jews from Spain and Portugal first settled there in the 17th-century and in 1672, there were an estimated 7,500 Jews living in the city. Holland had a reputation of hospitality and tolerance which was rare in Europe at the time. It was \"the first city in Europe where Jews were free from persecution and where they enjoyed religious liberty, ample economic opportunities and social equality.\" The epithet signalled that the Jews felt comfortable in the city.\nPrior to the Holocaust, there were about 80,000 Jews living in Amsterdam.\n\nIn Northern Africa, Tlemcen in Algeria was called \"Jerusalem of the West\". In the 15th-century, the town was considered a major Jewish spiritual centre. André Chouraqui believed that there was a genuine geographical correspondence between the town and Jerusalem. He wrote: \"We were living our dream in the midst of the beautiful countryside of the Maghreb. Tlemcen...resembles the city of David in altitude, climate, fauna and flora, to such an extent that we called in the Jerusalem of the Maghreb.\"\n\nOther towns given the appellation include Toledo and Antwerp. Many others towns in northern Africa were also called symbolically after Jerusalem: Ghardaia, M'zab (Second Jerusalem), Djerba, Tunisia (Ante-chamber of Jerusalem, Jerusalem of Africa), Ifrane, Morocco (Little Jerusalem).\n\n"}
{"id": "6458838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6458838", "title": "José Mariano Beristain", "text": "José Mariano Beristain\n\nJosé Mariano Beristáin y Martín de Souza (22 May 1756 – 23 March 1817) was a Mexican bibliographer and author of one of the principal sources of knowledge of the bibliography of Mexico and Central America.\n\nHe was born in Puebla, Mexico, but went to Spain and spent some time in the family of the former Bishop of Puebla, then Archbishop of Toledo. Returning to Mexico (1811) he was made Archdeacon of the Metropolitan church of Mexico (1813), and was afterwards its Dean. Beristain was a secular priest who had made thorough studies in Mexico and perfected them in Spain under the favourable circumstances. He wrote a number of treatises, some of them on economic subjects, but hardly any were published, the manuscripts being mostly lost in sending them to Europe. He died in Mexico.\n\nHis magnum opus is the \"Biblioteca hispano-americana septentrional\", the last part of which was published after his death. For this he used as a basis the \"Biblioteca mexicana\" of Bishop Juan José de Eguiara y Eguren of which only the first volume (as far as \"J\") appeared in print. Beristáin at first intended to republish Eguiara, completing the alphabet by means of sketches and notes left by the author, but, as he proceeded to carry out the idea, he found that it would be preferable to compose an independent bibliography, incorporating in it the material Eguiara had collected. of Beristain's \"Biblioteca\" contains many errors in names and dates. Taking into account the time when he wrote, and the distances from sources and their frequent inaccessibility, it has been considered by many as a monumental work.\n"}
{"id": "56964755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56964755", "title": "Lellia Cracco Ruggini", "text": "Lellia Cracco Ruggini\n\nLellia Cracco Ruggini (born 20 September 1931) is an Italian historian of Late Antiquity and professor emerita of the University of Turin. Her particular interests are in economic and social history, the history of ideas, and modern and ancient historiography. She specialises in the period from the second to seventh centuries AD.\n\nShe was born at Milan on 20 September 1931. In 1954 she graduated from the University of Pavia with a degree in literature and was awarded a PhD in 1963 by the University of Turin .\n\nFrom 1957-1968 she taught Greek and Roman history at the University of Pavia, becoming \"Libera Docente\" of Roman history and Latin epigraphy in 1963. She was Professor of Latin epigraphy at Pavia from 1965 to 1967.\n\nShe was director of the Institute of Ancient History at Turin University from 1968 to 1975, where she taught Roman history, Greek history and Latin epigraphy within the faculty of literature and philosophy. In 1989 she was elected as a member of the Academy of Europe. In 1995 she became professor emerita at Turin University. She was elected a foreign correspondent of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, France, in 2004.\n\nShe has held fellowships of the Italian Institute of Historical Study “Benedetto Croce” at Naples, the School for Advanced Studies at Paris, at the American Academy in Rome and twice made fellow of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton New Jersey.\n\nShe is co-director of the New History Magazine, of the Italian History Magazine, and from 1962 to 1967 she was secretary of Athenaeum review.\n\nShe is a member of the Turin Academy of Science, the Lincean Academy, the National Society of Antiquaries of France (since 1991), the Institute of France, the European Academy at London, the Association for Late Antiquity at Paris and the Association for Late Antique Studies at Naples.\n\n\nShe has published over 300 journal articles and books. Some of the most notable are:\n\n1961, 2001. \"Economia e società nell’ Italia Annonaria. Rapporti fra agricoltura e commercio dal IV al VI secolo d. C\".\n\n1966. « Un riflesso del mito di Alessandro nell’Historia Augusta » (in \"Beiträge zur Historia Augusta Forschung\", 3).\n\n1972. « Simboli di battaglia ideologica nel tardo Ellenismo (Roma, Atene, Costantinopoli ; Numa, Empedocle, Cristo) » (in \"Studi Storici in onore di Ottorino Bertolini\", I).\n\n1974. « Leggenda e realtà degli Etiopi nella cultura tardoimperiale » (in \"Atti del IV Congresso Int. di St. Etiopici\").\n\n1987. « Storia totale di una piccola città : Vicenza romana » (in \"Storia di Vicenza\", I).\n\n1989. « Arnaldo Momigliano e il Tardoantico » (in \"Omaggio ad Arnaldo Momigliano : Storia e storiografia sul mondo antico\").\n\n1989. « La città imperiale » (in \"Storia di Roma\", IV).\n\n1992. « Acque e lagune da periferia del mondo a fulcro di una nuova civilitas » (in \"Storia di Venezia\", I).\n\n1993. « Il Tardoantico : per una tipologia dei punti critici » (in \"Storia di Roma\", Einaudi, III, 1).\n\n1996, 1997, 2000. « Introduzione : La Storia Antica oggi » (in \"Storia Antica : come leggere le fonti\").\n\n2003. « Iatrosofistica pagana, “filosofia” cristiana e medicina (IV-VI secolo) » (in \"Consuetudinis amor. Fragments d’histoire culturelle (IIe-VIe siècle) : Mélanges en l’honneur de Jean-Pierre Callu\").\n\n2006. « La sessualità nell’etica pagano-cristiana tardoantica » (in \"LIII Settimana del CISAM\", I)\n\n2008. « Roma e i Barbari in età tardoantica » (in \"Roma e i Barbari. La nascita di un nuovo mondo\", catalogue de l’exposition).\n\n2008. « Gli studi storici sul Tardoantico in Italia nell’età di Riegl » (in \"Alois Riegl (1858-1905) un secolo dopo\").\n\n2008. « Terre e acque : città e campagne fra antichità e medioevo » (in LV Settimana del CISAM, I).\n\n2008. « Le amicizie “europee” di Gregorio Magno e la sua “politica delle reliquie” » (in \"Gregorio Magno e la Sardegna\". Convegno Int.).\n\n2009. « Alimentare i cittadini, i rustici e i milites fra Tardoantico e Alto Medioevo » (in \"LVI Settimana di studio del CISAM\", I).\n\n2009. « Il Codice Teodosiano e le eresie » (in Droit, religion et société dans le Code Théodosien).\n\n2010. « Tra fine IV e inizî V secolo in due dittici : qualche problema » (in \"Il secolo dei dittici\", Seminario Int.).\n\n2011. « Pontifices : un caso di osmosi linguistica » (in \"Pagans and Christians in the Roman Empire : The Breaking of a Dialogue (IVth-VIth Century A.D.\"). Proceedings of the International Conference at the Monastery of Bose).\n\n2011. \"Gli Ebrei in età tardoantica. Presenze, intolleranze, incontri\".\n"}
{"id": "42505529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42505529", "title": "List of Iron Age states", "text": "List of Iron Age states\n\nThe Iron Age is an archaeological age, the last of the three-age system of Old World prehistory.\nIt follows the Bronze Age, in the Ancient Near East beginning c. 1200 BC, and in Europe beginning\nafter c. 800 BC.\nIt is taken to end with the beginning of Classical Antiquity, in about the 6th century BC, \nalthough in Northern Europe, the Germanic Iron Age is taken to last until the beginning of the Viking Age, c. AD 800.\n\nThe term \"Iron Age\" is mostly limited to Europe and the Near East and the Indian subcontinent, although\nWest Africa also has some iron metallurgy, beginning with the Nok culture c. 550 BC and spread by the Bantu expansion.\nThere are also cast iron artefacts in China from about 500 BC, \nbut use of iron was minimal, and the Bronze Age in China is usually extended to the beginning of the classical period (Qin dynasty).\n\n"}
{"id": "34788799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34788799", "title": "List of cinematic firsts", "text": "List of cinematic firsts\n\nThis page lists chronologically the first achievements in cinema. The development of cinema is characterised by technological breakthroughs, from early experiments in the recording of day-to-day activity, experiments in colour, different formats and sound. From the 1970s, the development of computer-generated imagery has become integral to the way that films are produced.\n\nIn parallel with the developments in technology, its content and the way it reflects society and its concerns and the way society responds to it have changed too. The list attempts to address some of these events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56181314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56181314", "title": "List of renamed places in Madagascar", "text": "List of renamed places in Madagascar\n\nThis is a list of renamed places in Madagascar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36864400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36864400", "title": "Martin Daunton", "text": "Martin Daunton\n\nMartin James Daunton (born 14 February 1949) is a British academic and historian. He was Master of Trinity Hall, Cambridge, between 2004 and 2014.\n\nDaunton is the son of Ronald James Daunton and Dorothy \"née\" Bellett. He was educated at Barry Grammar School before going to the University of Nottingham where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1970. He studied further at the University of Kent PhD 1974 and received the degree of LittD from the University of Cambridge in 2005.\n\nIn 1984, he married Claire Gobbi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15184165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15184165", "title": "Metaphor in philosophy", "text": "Metaphor in philosophy\n\nMetaphor, the description of one thing as something else, has become of interest in recent decades to both analytic philosophy and continental philosophy, but for different reasons.\n\nIn the Anglo-American tradition of analytic philosophy (in particular, in the philosophy of language), metaphor has attracted interest because it does not conform to accepted truth-conditional semantics, the conditions which determine whether or not a statement is true. Taken literally, the statement \"Juliet is the sun\" (from \"Romeo and Juliet\") is false, if not nonsensical, yet, taken metaphorically, it is meaningful and may be true, but in a sense which is far from clear. The comparison theory of metaphor asserts that one can express the truth value of a metaphor by listing all the respects in which the two terms are alike or similar; for example: Juliet is \"like\" the sun because she shares with it qualities such as radiance, brilliance, the fact that she makes the day and that she gets up every morning. However, this results in re-casting metaphor as simile. Because it can only explain the truth of metaphor by in effect losing metaphor, the comparison theory is rarely defended.\n\nIn contrast, two leading theorists emphasize the fact that truth conditions cannot be specified for a metaphor. Max Black maintains that metaphors are too open-ended to be able to function as referring expressions, and so cannot be expressions which have truth conditions . If metaphors are used in contexts where precise terminology is expected (for example, in a scientific theory), then their role, Black argues, is purely heuristic, that is, they are means to an end or ways of assisting understanding, rather than being terms which can be tested for truth or falsity . Donald Davidson also thinks it a mistake to look for the truth conditions of a metaphor, since, in his words, \"much of what we are caused to notice [in a metaphor] is not propositional in character\", that is to say, metaphor is a prompt to thought which cannot be reduced to or contained by a series of truth conditions . What metaphor does, Davidson maintains, is make us see one thing as something else by \"making [a] literal statement that inspires or prompts the insight\" . Seeing one thing as something else is not the recognition of some truth or fact, and so \"the attempt to give literal expression to the content of the metaphor is simply misguided\".\n\nMax Black develops the idea that metaphor actually creates insight or new meaning . His interactionist theory asserts that at the heart of a metaphor is the interaction between its two subject terms, where the interaction provides the condition for a meaning which neither of the subject terms possesses independently of the metaphorical context. The primary subject in a metaphor, he claims, is coloured by a set of \"associated implications\" normally predicated of the secondary subject . From the number of possible meanings which could result, the primary subject sieves the qualities predicable of the secondary subject, letting through only those that fit. The interaction, as a process, brings into being what Black terms an \"implication-complex\", a system of associated implications shared by the linguistic community as well as an impulse of free meaning, free in that it is meaning which was unavailable prior to the metaphor's introduction.\n\nIn a different, naturalist, approach, some English-speaking philosophers close to cognitive science, such as Lakoff, have made metaphor the central aspect of human rationality.\n\nWhereas analytic philosophy examines metaphor within the philosophy of language, continental philosophy assigns much wider significance to metaphor. This is because the climate within continental thought has been more favourable to the propagation of new branches of enquiry from nineteenth century German philosophy. Although Kant and Hegel sit quite happily on both analytic and continental curricula, it is only the latter which has seriously addressed the need to rethink how the world appears to us and how it is made manifest to us in the light of their metaphysics. Metaphor has proven to be extremely important for this rethinking because it is the process of conceptual borrowing or reassignment which revises our perception of the world.\n\nThe major shift which occurs in Kantian continental philosophy, according to Cazeaux, is the departure 'from dualistic thought, i.e. thinking which remains within the boundaries created by oppositions, such as mind—body and subjective—objective' . The turn away from dualistic thought is made by Kant on account of his representing experience as the subjective determination of an objective world, thereby placing in a relationship terms which normally stand as opposites in a dualism. As a result of this shift, without conventional dualisms to fall back upon, the process of conceptual borrowing and cross-referral presented by metaphor becomes central as the means by which the textures and complexities of experience can be articulated. Theses to this effect, but with significant differences, can be found in Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, Bachelard, Paul Ricoeur, and Derrida.\n\nTo give two examples. According to Nietzsche, we are in metaphor or we are metaphor: our being is not derived from a Platonic, eternal essence or from a Cartesian thinking substance but (in as much as there is a way of being we can call ours) is emergent from tensional interactions between competing drives or perspectives . We customarily hold truth to be a relation of correspondence between knowledge and reality but, Nietzsche declares, it is in fact ‘a movable host of metaphors, metonymies, and anthropomorphisms’ due to the fundamentally metaphorical nature of concept-formation, a series of creative leaps from nerve stimulus to retinal image (first metaphor) to sound as signifier (second metaphor) . Our categories, and the judgments we form with them, can never correspond to things in themselves because they are formed through a series of transformations which ensures that ‘there is no causality, no correctness, and no expression’ connecting the first stage (the stimulus) with the last (the concept) .\n\nFor Ricoeur, metaphor is also ‘living’ – hence the title of his book, \"La Métaphore vive\" (translated into English as \"The Rule of Metaphor\" ) – but in a different sense from Nietzsche . Metaphor is living, Ricoeur claims, in that it is the principle which revives our perception of the world and through which we become aware of our creative capacity for seeing the world anew. This process, he thinks, is both paradoxical and Kantian in nature: paradoxical in that the creative combination of terms in a metaphor nevertheless produces meaning which has the character of a discovery (how can something be both a creation and a discovery?), and Kantian because the paradox mirrors Kant’s theory of experience in which the subjective application of concepts nevertheless yields perception of an objective world. The tension between the subjective, creative and the objective, discovery aspects of a metaphor, Ricoeur argues, proceeds ‘from the very structures of the mind, which it is the task of [Kant’s] transcendental philosophy to articulate’ . Unfortunately, the part of Kant’s philosophy which Ricoeur appeals to is highly problematic: the schema or schematism, the operation which Kant dismisses as ‘an art concealed in the depths of the human soul' . Ricoeur’s Kantianism is considered at length by Cazeaux and Stellardi , with the former providing an account of how the schematism might afford a coherent explanation of metaphor.\n\nAnother reason for the attention paid by continental philosophy to metaphor is the questioning of boundaries – between subject areas and between the wider concepts of ethics, epistemology and aesthetics – which has occurred within postmodernism. Principal concerns in these debates are the status of knowledge and the way in which the concepts of truth and objectivity are understood. Philosophy has been under attack on this score with its history of ‘universal truths’, e.g. Descartes’s cogito, Kant’s table of categories, and Hegel’s Absolute Consciousness. The main arguments against this universalism invoke metaphor on two related accounts: (1) the fact that key epistemological concepts have metaphors at their root, for example, “mirroring”, “correspondence”, “sense data”, is taken as evidence of the contingent, communal, subjective basis of knowledge, and (2) because metaphor (as a form of dislocated or dislocating predication) works by testing the appropriate with the inappropriate, it is seen as a means of challenging the boundaries whereby one subject defines itself in relation to another.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34330738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34330738", "title": "Mousteroid", "text": "Mousteroid\n\nMousteroid was a culture occurring during the period 80,000 - 50,000 B.P. of Central,South and East Africa. Examples of this culture are the tool-industry of the Middle Paleolithic in West Africa, known from sites at Zenebi, Nigeria and Tiemassas in Senegal. \n\nThe most important of the Western Senegal sites is Pte. de Fann in Dakar. Classified Mousteroid, indicating similarities to industry Mousterian in form but neither akin to, nor at a temporal parallel. Other sites about Dakar and Rufisque, were part of a culture that had not occurred for sufficient duration for tools to be found at differing depths in the ground (\"without stratification\")\n"}
{"id": "16039774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16039774", "title": "Otakar Hostinský", "text": "Otakar Hostinský\n\nOtakar Hostinský (2 January 1847, Martiněves (near Litoměřice) – 19 January 1910, Prague) was a Czech historian, musicologist, and professor of musical aesthetics. He is known primarily for his support of composer Bedřich Smetana and his contributions to Czech aesthetic theory, which influenced many cultural figures in early twentieth-century Prague, including Zdeněk Nejedlý, Otakar Zich, and Vladimír Helfert. He also wrote the opera librettos to Zdeněk Fibich's masterpiece, \"The Bride of Messina\", and Josef Rozkosný's \"Cinderella\".\n\n\"Art and Nationality\", 1869\n\"Wagnerianism and Czech National Identity\", 1870\n\"On \"Program\" Music\", 1873\n\"Das Musikalisch-Schöne und das Gesamtkunstwerk vom Standpunkte der formalen Aesthetik\", 1877\n\"On the Contemporary State and Direction of Czech Music\", 1880\n\"On Czech Musical Declamation\", 1882\n\"On Melodrama\", 1885\n\"A Brief Overview of the History of Music\", 1885\n\"On Artistic Realism\", 1890\n\"Herbarts Aesthetik\", 1891\n\"Volkslied und Tanz der Slaven\", 1893\n\"On Progress in Art\", 1894\n\"On Folksong\", 1897\n\"On Experimental Aesthetics\", 1900\n\"B. Smetana and his Struggle for Modern Czech Music\", 1901\n\"On the Socialization of Art\", 1903\n\"Art and Society\", 1907\n\"Czech Music, 1864-1904\", 1909\n"}
{"id": "18602958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18602958", "title": "Petri Mór", "text": "Petri Mór\n\nPetri Mór (July 11, 1863 in Tăşnad – March 2, 1945 in Budapest) was a teacher, school inspector and author in Transylvania.\n\nHis masterwork is \"Szilágy vármegye monographiája\" (I-IV, Budapest, 1901–1904).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17191830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17191830", "title": "Pilip Ballach Ó Duibhgeannáin", "text": "Pilip Ballach Ó Duibhgeannáin\n\nPilip Ballach Ó Duibhgeannáin (\"fl.\" 1579–1590) was an Irish historian.\n\nA member of the Clan Ó Duibhgeannáin and a hereditary historian, Pilip was a resident of Cloonybrien, County Roscommon. With Brian na Carriag MacDermot and others he compiled the Annals of Lough Cé and various other manuscripts, including Miscellanea Historica Hibernica\n\nPaul Walsh suggested that he was a son of Fer Caogad mac Ferghal Ó Duibhgeannáin, who died at Cloonybried in 1581.\n\n"}
{"id": "11950553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11950553", "title": "Premierships of William Ewart Gladstone", "text": "Premierships of William Ewart Gladstone\n\nWilliam Ewart Gladstone was Prime Minister of Great Britain on four separate occasions between 1868 and 1894. He was noted for his moralistic leadership and his emphasis on world peace, economical budgets, political reform and efforts to resolve the Irish Question. Gladstone saw himself as a national leader driven by a political and almost religious mission, which he tried to validate through elections and dramatic appeals to the public conscience. His approach sometimes divided the Liberal Party, which he dominated for three decades. Finally Gladstone split his party on the issue of Irish Home Rule, which he saw as mandated by the true public interest regardless of the political cost.\n\nDuring the Christmas of 1867 The Earl Russell announced that he would not lead the Liberal Party at the next general election and so Gladstone succeeded him as Liberal Party leader. The resulting general election of 1868 (the first under the extended franchise enacted in the Reform Act 1867) returned a Liberal majority of 112 seats in the House of Commons.\n\nAs prime minister 1868 to 1874 Gladstone headed a Liberal Party that was a coalition of Peelites like himself, Whigs and radicals; Gladstone was now a spokesman for \"peace, economy and reform.\"\n\nBetween 1870 and 1874 religious disputes played a major part in destroying the broad Liberal Party coalition. Disputes over education, Irish disestablishment, and the Irish universities showed the divergence between, on the one hand, Whigs, who wanted state control of education and the propagation of a nondenominational, morally uplifting Christianity, and on the other hand Gladstone and his supporters, who sought to guard religion's independence from a modernising civil power. This division struck a lasting blow to prospects of agreement on future policy over education and Ireland.\n\nThe first major reform Gladstone undertook was the disestablishment of the Church of Ireland as embodied in the Irish Church Act 1869. This was followed by the Landlord and Tenant Act of 1870 which attempted to protect Irish tenants from unfair treatment from landlords by lending public money to tenants to enable them to buy their holdings. The Act limited landlords' powers to arbitrarily evict their tenants and established compensation for eviction, which varied according to the size of holdings and was not eligible for those evicted for failing to pay rents.\n\nGladstone's government also passed the Elementary Education Act 1870, which provided England with an adequate system of elementary schools for the first time. It established a system of elective school boards which were founded to provide education where there were no voluntary schools. These boards had the power to levy rates and from which construct schools, employ teachers, and the ability to force children to attend (if they thought fit) those who were receiving no other education. They were also able to pay certain children's fees for voluntary schools.\n\nIn 1871 Gladstone's government passed the Trade Union Act making membership of trade unions legal for the first time. However, picketing remained illegal, with the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1871 making it a specific criminal offence punishable by three months' hard labour in prison. The Ballot Act 1872 was also passed, which established secret ballots for general and local elections.\n\nThe Licensing Act 1872 restricted the opening hours in public houses; regulated the content of beer; gave local authorities the power to determine licensing hours and gave boroughs the option of banning all alcohol. These policies were enforced by the police. This Act was generally unpopular and led to rioting in some towns. The liquor industry had Liberal leanings before the Act but now this totally changed, and from \"midsummer 1871 [when the first Licensing Bill was discussed] till the dissolution of 1874 nearly every public-house in the United Kingdom was an active committee-room for the Conservative Party\". Gladstone blamed the Act for the Conservative victory in the 1874 general election, writing: \"We have been borne down in a torrent of gin and beer\".\n\nThe Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1873 remodelled the English court system (establishing the High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeal) and attempted to abolish the House of Lords as a judicial body for England, but this was not implemented due to the Conservative victory of 1874.\n\nAs Gladstone's Secretary of State for War, Edward Cardwell enacted far-reaching reforms of the British Army in what would become known as the Cardwell Reforms.\n\nIn 1868 Gladstone appointed Robert Lowe (1811–92) Chancellor of the Exchequer, expecting him to hold down public spending. Public spending rose, and Gladstone pronounced Lowe \"wretchedly deficient.\" Maloney notes that historians concur on that. Lowe systematically underestimated revenue, enabling him to resist the clamour for tax cuts, and to reduce the national debt instead. He insisted that the tax system be fair to all classes. By his own criterion of fairness—that the balance between direct and indirect taxation remain unchanged—he succeeded. Historians point out that this balance had never been a good measure of class incidence and was by that time thoroughly archaic.\n\nPublic expenditure on the military and the navy by 1871 was at its lowest level since 1858. Overall, national public expenditure was reduced from £71,000,000 in 1868 to £67,000,000 in 1870 and 1871. However, it rose to £74,604,000 in 1874. Nevertheless, Gladstone was able to produce five surpluses for each year amounting to £17,000,000. He was also able (he resumed the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer in August 1873 till the dissolution of Parliament in early 1874) to reduce the income tax to 3 pence in the pound in 1873, and the next year proposed to abolish it altogether if he won the next general election.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–71 Gladstone attempted to persuade the German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck to forbear from annexing Alsace and Lorraine from defeated France. Gladstone published an anonymous article in the \"Edinburgh Review\" in October 1870 espousing his views, but it did not remain anonymous for long. The Germans remained unconvinced by Gladstone's overtures, however. France would regain both provinces in 1919 and 1944—but only after two World Wars with Germany.\n\nDuring the American Civil War the Confederate ship CSS \"Alabama\" had been built in an English port and had subsequently damaged Union shipping. In 1872 Gladstone settled the \"Alabama Claims\" by giving the United States $15,500,000 as part of the Treaty of Washington.\n\nGladstone paid little attention to military affairs but in 1870 pushed through Parliament major changes in Army organisation. Germany's stunning triumph over France proved that the Prussian system of professional soldiers with up-to-date weapons was far superior to the traditional system of gentlemen-soldiers that Britain used. The reforms were designed to centralise the power of the War Office, abolish purchase of officers' commissions, and to create reserve forces stationed in Britain by establishing short terms of service for enlisted men.\n\nEdward Cardwell (1813–1886) as Secretary of State for War (1868–1874) designed the reforms that Gladstone supported in the name of efficiency and democracy. In 1868 he abolished flogging, raising the private soldier status to more like an honourable career. In 1870 Cardwell abolished \"bounty money\" for recruits, discharged known bad characters from the ranks. He pulled 20,000 soldiers out of self-governing colonies, like Canada, which learned they had to help defend themselves. The most radical change, and one that required Gladstone's political muscle, was to abolish the system of officers obtaining commissions and promotions by purchase, rather than by merit. The system meant that the rich landholding families controlled all the middle and senior ranks in the army. Promotion depended on the family's wealth, not the officer's talents, and the middle class was shut out almost completely. British \nofficers were expected to be gentlemen and sportsmen; there was no problem if they were entirely wanting in military knowledge or leadership skills. From the Tory perspective it was essential to keep the officer corps the domain of gentlemen, and not a trade \nfor professional experts. They warned the latter might menace the oligarchy and threaten a military coup; they preferred an inefficient army to an authoritarian state. The rise of Bismarck's new Germany made this reactionary policy too dangerous for a great empire to risk. The bill, which would have compensated current owners for their cash investments, passed Commons in 1871 but was blocked by the House of Lords. Gladstone then moved to drop the system without any reimbursements, forcing the Lords to backtrack and approve the original bill. Liberals rallied to Gladstone's anti-elitism, pointing to the case of Lord Cardigan (1797–1868), who spent £40,000 for his commission and proved utterly incompetent in the Crimean war, where he ordered the disastrous \"Charge of the Light Brigade\" in 1854. Cardwell was not powerful enough to install a general staff system; that had to await the 20th century. He did rearrange the war department. He made the office of Secretary of State for War superior to the Army's commander in Chief; the commander was His Royal Highness The Duke of Cambridge (1819–1904), the Queen's first cousin, and an opponent of the reforms. The surveyor-general of the ordnance, and the financial secretary became key department heads reporting to the Secretary. The militia was reformed as well and integrated into the Army. The term of enlistment was reduced to 6 years, so there was more turnover and a larger pool of trained reservists. The territorial system of recruiting for regiments was standardised and adjusted to the current population. Cardwell reduced the Army budget yet increased its strength of the army by 25 battalions, 156 field guns, and abundant stores, while the reserves available for foreign service had been raised tenfold from 3,500 to 36,000 men.\n\nIn the 1880 general election Gladstone's Liberals won 352 seats, a gain of 110, against 237 for the Conservatives and 63 for the Irish Home Rule League. It was a comfortable margin, but defections always seemed to whittle down the lead and sometimes produced defeat. Despite his age Gladstone was an indefatigable leader and organiser, and the most brilliant speaker; however he wasted energy by serving as his own Chancellor of the Exchequer for a while. His Liberal party was increasingly factionalised between the smaller \"radical\" contingent and the larger \"Whig\" grouping. Gladstone selected a relatively weak cabinet that favoured the Whigs. Even so, some Whigs were alienated because of his imperial policy, while the radical leader, Joseph Chamberlain broke away in because they opposed his home rule plan for Ireland.\n\nIt has been argued that Gladstone mishandled the Bradlaugh affair, giving the opposition a religious cudgel which they used for years, with the result that his second ministry was not nearly as successful as the first.\n\nOne of the first major pieces of legislation introduced by the new government was the Elementary Education Act 1880, which enshrined the principle of compulsory education (for all children aged 5–10 years of age) into law for the first time.\n\nIn 1881 Gladstone was convinced that to pass a Land Bill for Ireland, law and order should be restored. In February 1881 the government therefore passed the Peace Preservation (Ireland) Act 1881 which gave the Viceroy of Ireland powers to suspend habeas corpus, and gave him in effect the power to lock up anyone he liked for as long as he liked. This was the Act used to arrest Irish Nationalist leader Charles Stewart Parnell. In August that year Parliament passed the Land Law (Ireland) Act 1881 which gave Irish tenants \"the three Fs\"; fair rent, fixity (security) of tenure; and the right to freely sell their holdings. Gladstone's government also passed the Arrears of Rent (Ireland) Act 1882, which cancelled rent arrears for Irish tenants occupying land worth less than £30 per annum who were unable to pay.\n\nThe Married Women's Property Act 1882 gave married women the same rights to buy, sell, and own property as unmarried women did and had the effect of women being legally recognised as individuals in their own right for the first time in history.\n\nGladstone's second government also saw a number of electoral reforms. The Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883 aimed at eliminating corruption in elections and the Representation of the People Act 1884, which gave the counties the same franchise as the boroughs—adult male householders and £10 lodgers—and added about six million to the total number who could vote in parliamentary elections. Parliamentary reform continued with the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885.\n\nPublic expenditure was reduced to slightly under £81,000,000 in 1881 from the £83,000,000 inherited from the previous administration of 1879. However it rose to £89,000,000 in 1885. For nearly three years into his second government Gladstone resumed the office of Chancellor. He abolished the tax on malt for the farmers, funding this by adding one pence on income tax and introducing a duty on beer, in 1880. In 1881 he reduced the income tax to five pence in the pound, funding this by increasing the duty on spirits, probates and legacies. In his last Budget in 1882 Gladstone added to the income tax.\n\nGladstone's government was unexpectedly defeated on the Budget vote on 8 June 1885 and therefore Gladstone resigned the premiership the next day, with Lord Salisbury forming a minority Conservative administration.\n\nWhile in opposition Gladstone spoke out against Disraeli's aggressive imperialism. Especially in his Midlothian campaign speeches of 1880 he had expounded on his Liberal philosophy of government. The major concern of the campaign was with foreign affairs; with evangelical fervour he articlulated his vision of a world community, governed by law, and protecting the weak. The basis was universalism and inclusiveness; his emotional appeals reached to the sense of concern for others, rising eventually to the larger picture of the unity of mankind. Gladstone intended to restore right conduct and right principles when he returned to office, but public opinion—especially among the rural gentry—forced his government to continue imperial defence and expansion, most notably in Egypt. At a time when France, Germany and others were rapidly expanding their empires, he opposed expanding the British Empire.\n\nGladstone won the 1880 election on the back of his Midlothian campaign against Disraeli's support for the Ottoman Empire. He proceeded to reverse Disraeli's foreign policy by withdrawing the British garrison in Kandahar in Afghanistan and wanted to cede Cyprus to Greece, although he was dissuaded from this by Lord Granville. Although he had denounced the annexation of the Transvaal in the election campaign, he announced in January 1881 that self-government was not going to happen. The Boers rebelled against this in February and drove the British out by force at the Battle of Majuba Hill. Gladstone implemented the Pretoria Convention later in August which ended the First Boer War. In October in a speech at Leeds, Gladstone proclaimed: \"While we are opposed to imperialism, we are devoted to the empire\".\n\nHowever, in 1882 a nationalist revolt in Egypt headed by Colonel Urabi led to a riot in Alexandria whereby hundreds of foreigners were massacred. There was a danger to the Suez Canal, the lifeline to India, as well as to British holders of Egyptian bonds. At first, Gladstone appealed to the Concert of Europe to take collective action, although this was met by unenthusiastic responses. France refused to send military forces in fear of weakening France's defences against Germany. On 10 July Gladstone instructed that an ultimatum be given to Urabi to halt military fortifications of Alexandria within twelve hours. Urabi did not answer and so on 11 July the Royal Navy bombarded the city. This resulted in rioting and Gladstone got from Parliament £2,300,000 and raised the income tax from 5\"d\". to 6½\"d\". to finance a military campaign. On 19 August British troops commanded by Sir Garnet Wolseley landed at Port Said and on 13 September defeated Urabi's forces at the Battle of Tel-el-Kebir. On hearing news of the British victory Gladstone was ecstatic and ordered salutes of the guns in Hyde Park in their honour.\n\nIn January 1884 Gladstone consented to sending General Gordon to the Sudan to report on the best means of evacuating Egyptian garrisons there in the aftermath of the Mahdi Muhammad Ahmad's rebellion. When Gordon arrived in the Sudan he wanted to hold the capital, Khartoum. At first Gladstone refused to send a relief expedition but a few months later he consented and in October 1884 General Wolseley embarked from Cairo to Khartoum but arrived there too late to save Gordon, who had died when Khartoum fell to the Mahdi. \"No single event in Gladstone's career made him more unpopular\" and a vote of censure in the Commons reduced the government's majority to fourteen.\n\nEnormous publicity was accorded the case of Charles Bradlaugh, who was elected as a Liberal to Parliament again and again but could not be seated because he was an atheist. Bradlaugh was a conventional Liberal on most issues, but he was also a highly controversial proponent of birth control. The technical issue was whether an atheist could \"affirm\" his loyalty rather than \"swear to God.\" Gladstone fought to get Bradlaugh seated, but took a legalistic approach which allowed the Conservatives to attack the Liberals with an appeal to religious sentiment. The Liberals were split and their cause suffered. Bradlaugh was finally seated in 1886 and in 1888 Parliament passed a law that allowed affirmations instead of oaths.\nWith very little publicity Gladstone after 1880 was increasingly estranged from Queen Victoria on issues of Church of England patronage. Gladstone's policy was to nominate bishops and deans solely on the basis of merit and leadership ability. The Queen, encouraged by Disraeli, favoured moderates who would restrain the High Church party (which tended to support the Liberals).\n\nThe general election in November/December 1885 saw the Liberals lose 33 seats but in January 1886 Salisbury resigned the premiership after losing a vote in the Commons and so Gladstone formed a government on 1 February. Historians point to his age as an explanation for his inflexibility. He minimized the Radical role in his cabinet, with only Joseph Chamberlain representing that faction. The result was internal feuding that so weakened the cabinet that solid achievements were lacking. Historian Donald Southgate argues:\n\nHistorian R.C.K. Ensor argues: \n\nGladstone turned to Ireland. The First Home Rule Bill was introduced to Parliament on 8 April and the Land Purchase Bill on 16 April. Joseph Chamberlain and George Otto Trevelyan resigned from the Cabinet when Gladstone told them that he intended to introduce the bills.\n\nThe Land Purchase Bill enabled landlords in Ireland—mostly Protestants—to sell their land to their tenants for the price of 20 years' rent. The purchases were to be financed by government loans funded by £120,000,000 secured on British credit at 3%. The bill was a shock to Liberals and brought down Gladstone's government in a matter of months. Irish nationalist reaction was mixed, Unionist opinion was hostile, and the election addresses during the 1886 election revealed English radicals to be against the bill also. Among the Liberal rank and file, several Gladstonian candidates disowned the bill, reflecting fears at the constituency level that the interests of the working people were being sacrificed to finance a rescue operation for the landed elite. The Land Purchase Bill was criticised from all sides and was dropped. The Home Rule Bill was defeated by 343 votes to 313, with 93 Liberals voting against. Thus nothing was accomplished except the permanent disruption of the Liberal Party.\n\nMen who left the Liberal Party now formed the Liberal Unionist Party. Gladstone dissolved Parliament and called a general election which resulted in a Unionist (Conservative and Liberal Unionist) landslide victory under Salisbury.\n\nThe general election of 1892 returned more Liberals than Unionists but without an overall majority. The Unionists stayed in office until they lost a motion of no confidence moved by H. H. Asquith on 11 August. Gladstone became Prime Minister for the last time at the age of 82, and was both the oldest ever person to be appointed to the office and when he resigned in 1894 aged 84 he was the oldest person ever to occupy the Premiership.\n\nGladstone was the first Prime Minister to make it a condition of ministers to resign directorships of public companies in 1892. This was abandoned by Salisbury in 1895 and Arthur Balfour after him but was restored by Liberal Henry Campbell-Bannerman in 1905 and was observed ever since.\n\nHaving to rely on Irish Nationalist votes, Gladstone introduced the Second Home Rule Bill in February 1893, passing second reading on 21 April by 43 votes and third reading on 1 September by 34 votes. However the House of Lords killed the Bill by voting against by 419 votes to 41 on 8 September. Gladstone wanted to call a general election to campaign against the Lords but his colleagues dissuaded him from doing so.\n\nPublic expenditure in the years 1892–93 was £80,000,000 with income tax at seven pence in the pound. In 1894 Britain's imports totalled £408,000,000, with total British-made exports at £216,000,000 (and the re-export of imports valued at £57,000,000).\n\nIn December 1893 an Opposition motion proposed by Lord George Hamilton called for an expansion of the Royal Navy. Gladstone opposed increasing public expenditure on the naval estimates, in the tradition of free trade liberalism of his earlier political career as Chancellor. Almost all his colleagues, however, believed in some expansion of the Royal Navy. Gladstone also opposed Sir William Harcourt's proposal to implement a graduated death duty, which Gladstone denounced as \"the most radical measure of my lifetime\".\n\nGladstone decided to resign the Premiership, ostensibly on health grounds, on 2 March 1894. The Queen did not ask Gladstone who should succeed him but sent for Lord Rosebery (Gladstone would have advised on Lord Spencer).\n\n"}
{"id": "3943013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3943013", "title": "Protector of Aborigines", "text": "Protector of Aborigines\n\nThe office of the Protector of Aborigines was established pursuant to a recommendation contained in the \"Report of the Parliamentary Select Committee on Aboriginal Tribes, (British settlements.)\" of the House of Commons. On 31 January 1838, Lord Glenelg, Secretary of State for War and the Colonies sent Governor Gipps the report.\n\nThe report recommended that Protectors of Aborigines should be engaged. They would be required to learn the Aboriginal language and their duties would be to watch over the rights of Aborigines, guard against encroachment on their property and to protect them from acts of cruelty, oppression and injustice. The Port Phillip Protectorate was established with George Augustus Robinson as chief protector and four full-time protectors.\n\nWhile the role was nominally to protect Aborigines, particularly in remote areas, the role included social control up to the point of controlling whom individuals were able to marry and where they lived and managing their financial affairs.\n\nAs well as Robinson, A. O. Neville and Edward John Eyre were notable Protectors of Aborigines.\n\nMatthew Moorhouse was the first Protector of Aborigines in South Australia. He led the Rufus River massacre, which slaughtered 30-to-40 Aborigines.\n\nThe Aborigines Welfare Board in New South Wales was abolished in 1969. By then, all states and territories had repealed the legislation allowing for the removal of Aboriginal children under the policy of \"protection\".\n\nProtectors of Aborigines around Australia included:\n\nCompare:\n\n"}
{"id": "26726201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26726201", "title": "Raqqa Newroz killing", "text": "Raqqa Newroz killing\n\nThe Raqqa Newroz Killings were attacks on Kurdish populations in Raqqa Governorate during Newroz, the Kurdish New Year celebrations.\n\nThe first incident took place in March 2008, according to Human Rights Watch, Syrian security forces opened fire at Kurds celebrating spring festival of Newroz. The shooting left three people dead. The city is renowned for throwing a large Christmas parade every year in December, and celebrating Newroz festival by a large crowd every year in March.\n\nThe second incident involved a Syrian police attack on the Kurdish population in Raqqa city, who had gathered to celebrate new Kurdish year (Newroz festival) in March 2010. The attack by Syrian police left 2 or 3 people killed, one of them a 15-year-old girl, and more than 50 people wounded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58319057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58319057", "title": "Regius Professor of Humanity", "text": "Regius Professor of Humanity\n\nThe Regius Professorship of Humanity, formerly the Regius Professorship of Classics, is a Regius Chair in classics at the University of Aberdeen.\n\n"}
{"id": "31701481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31701481", "title": "Rena Molho", "text": "Rena Molho\n\nRena Molho (1946) is a Greek historian who focuses on the different aspects of Ottoman and Greek Jewish history and culture and more specifically that of the Jews of Salonika.\n\nShe was born in Thessaloniki, Greece, the original and official name of Salonika.\n\nMolho studied European history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and received a Doctor of Philosophy with distinctions from the University of Strasbourg.\n\nShe has taken part in many symposiums, television and radio programs, in Greece and abroad and has published her research in Greek and international scientific books, encyclopedias and journals. Her research has been supported with grants by the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture in New York City and by the Survivors of the Shoah Visual History Foundation in Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1996, she acted as senior interviewer and coordinator in Greece for the Survivors of the Shoah Visual History Foundation and has videotaped seventy Greek holocaust survivors' personal accounts.\n\nMolho has taught the history of the Jewish presence in Greece in seminars organized by the International Study Groups, and since 1991 with a group of other historians she co-founded the Society for the Study of Greek Jewry. For eight years, as of 1999, she taught the history of Greek Jewry at Panteion University in Athens, the first and only Greek academic institution to include the course of Jewish history in its curriculum in Greece until today. Her book \"The Jews of Thessaloniki, 1856–1919: A Unique Community\" received the Athens Academy Award in December 2000 and in 2001 it was published in Greek by Themelion Publishing. After this, it became a university handbook distributed to Greek students of Jewish history. This book has been translated and will be soon published in Turkish.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2007, she was the Greek coordinator for Centropa(), a Vienna, Austria-based Jewish historical institute which conducted a new series of audio interviews of Thessaloniki-born survivors who after 1945 returned and settled in Greece.\n\nShe has published a great number of academic articles in all the major European languages as well as in Greek, Hebrew and Turkish.\n\nIn 2010, she was decorated with the medal of the order of \"Ordre des Palmes Académiques\" for her contribution to the French academia.\n\nAmong her latest books, \"Salonica-Istanbul: Social, Political and Cultural Aspects of Jewish Life\" (2005) comprises a collection of eighteen studies in English and French and was published by Isis Press.\n\nHer book \"Jewish Sites in Thessaloniki: Brief History and Guide\" (2009), published by Lycabettus Press in Athens, became a best seller, and was also published in Greek (2010) and in German (2011).\n\nA selection of her publications includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25936", "title": "Rio de Janeiro", "text": "Rio de Janeiro\n\nRio de Janeiro (; ; \"River of January\"), or simply Rio, is the second-most populous municipality in Brazil and the sixth-most populous in the Americas. The metropolis is anchor to the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area, the second-most populous metropolitan area in Brazil and sixth-most populous in the Americas. Rio de Janeiro is the capital of the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil's third-most populous state. Part of the city has been designated as a World Heritage Site, named \"Rio de Janeiro: Carioca Landscapes between the Mountain and the Sea\", by UNESCO on 1 July 2012 as a Cultural Landscape.\n\nFounded in 1565 by the Portuguese, the city was initially the seat of the Captaincy of Rio de Janeiro, a domain of the Portuguese Empire. Later, in 1763, it became the capital of the State of Brazil, a state of the Portuguese Empire. In 1808, when the Portuguese Royal Court transferred itself from Portugal to Brazil, Rio de Janeiro became the chosen seat of the court of Queen Maria I of Portugal, who subsequently, in 1815, under the leadership of her son, the Prince Regent, and future King João VI of Portugal, raised Brazil to the dignity of a kingdom, within the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and Algarves. Rio stayed the capital of the pluricontinental Lusitanian monarchy until 1822, when the War of Brazilian Independence began. This is one of the few instances in history that the capital of a colonising country officially shifted to a city in one of its colonies. Rio de Janeiro subsequently served as the capital of the independent monarchy, the Empire of Brazil, until 1889, and then the capital of a republican Brazil until 1960 when the capital was transferred to Brasília.\n\nRio de Janeiro has the second largest municipal GDP in the country, and 30th largest in the world in 2008, estimated at about R$343 billion (IBGE, 2008) (nearly US$201 billion). It is headquarters to Brazilian oil, mining, and telecommunications companies, including two of the country's major corporations – Petrobras and Vale – and Latin America's largest telemedia conglomerate, Grupo Globo. The home of many universities and institutes, it is the second-largest center of research and development in Brazil, accounting for 17% of national scientific output according to 2005 data. Despite the high perception of crime, the city has a lower incidence of crime than Northeast Brazil, but it is far more criminalized than the south region of Brazil, which is considered the safest in the country.\n\nRio de Janeiro is one of the most visited cities in the Southern Hemisphere and is known for its natural settings, Carnival, samba, bossa nova, and balneario beaches such as Barra da Tijuca, Copacabana, Ipanema, and Leblon. In addition to the beaches, some of the most famous landmarks include the giant statue of \"Christ the Redeemer\" atop Corcovado mountain, named one of the New Seven Wonders of the World; Sugarloaf Mountain with its cable car; the \"Sambódromo\" (Sambadrome), a permanent grandstand-lined parade avenue which is used during Carnival; and Maracanã Stadium, one of the world's largest football stadiums. Rio de Janeiro was the host of the 2016 Summer Olympics and the 2016 Summer Paralympics, making the city the first South American and Portuguese-speaking city to ever host the events, and the third time the Olympics were held in a Southern Hemisphere city. The Maracanã Stadium held the finals of the 1950 and 2014 FIFA World Cups, the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup, and the XV Pan American Games.\n\nEuropeans first encountered Guanabara Bay on 1 January 1502 (hence Rio de Janeiro, \"January River\"), by a Portuguese expedition under explorer Gaspar de Lemos, captain of a ship in Pedro Álvares Cabral's fleet, or under Gonçalo Coelho. Allegedly the Florentine explorer Amerigo Vespucci participated as observer at the invitation of King Manuel I in the same\nexpedition. The region of Rio was inhabited by the Tupi, Puri, Botocudo and Maxakalí peoples.\n\nIn 1555, one of the islands of Guanabara Bay, now called Villegagnon Island, was occupied by 500 French colonists under the French admiral Nicolas Durand de Villegaignon. Consequently, Villegagnon built Fort Coligny on the island when attempting to establish the France Antarctique colony.\n\nThe city of Rio de Janeiro proper was founded by the Portuguese on 1 March 1565 and was named \"São Sebastião do Rio de Janeiro\", in honour of St. Sebastian, the saint who was the namesake and patron of the Portuguese then-monarch Sebastião. \"Rio de Janeiro\" was the name of Guanabara Bay. Until early in the 18th century, the city was threatened or invaded by several mostly French pirates and buccaneers, such as Jean-François Duclerc and René Duguay-Trouin.\n\nIn the late 17th century, still during the Sugar Era, the Bandeirantes discovered gold and diamonds in the neighbouring captaincy of Minas Gerais, thus Rio de Janeiro became a much more practical port for exporting wealth (gold, precious stones, besides the sugar) than Salvador, Bahia, much farther northeast. On 27 January 1763, the colonial administration in Portuguese America was moved from Salvador to Rio de Janeiro. The city remained primarily a colonial capital until 1808, when the Portuguese royal family and most of the associated Lisbon nobles, fleeing from Napoleon's invasion of Portugal, moved to Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe kingdom's capital was transferred to the city, which, thus, became the only European capital outside of Europe. As there was no physical space or urban structure to accommodate hundreds of noblemen who arrived suddenly, many inhabitants were simply evicted from their homes. In the first decades, several educational establishments were created, such as the Military Academy, the Royal School of Sciences, Arts and Crafts and the Imperial Academy of Fine Arts, as well as the National Library of Brazil – with the largest collection in Latin America – and The Botanical Garden. The first printed newspaper in Brazil, the \"Gazeta do Rio de Janeiro\", came into circulation during this period. When Brazil was elevated to Kingdom in 1815, it became the capital of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves until the return of the Portuguese Royal Family to Lisbon in 1821, but remained as capital of the Kingdom of Brazil.\n\nFrom the colonial period until the first independent decades, Rio de Janeiro was a city of slaves. There was a large influx of African slaves to Rio de Janeiro: in 1819, there were 145,000 slaves in the captaincy. In 1840, the number of slaves reached 220,000 people. The Port of Rio de Janeiro was the largest port of slaves in America.\n\nWhen Prince Pedro proclaimed the independence of Brazil in 1822, he decided to keep Rio de Janeiro as the capital of his new empire while the province was enriched with sugar cane agriculture in the Campos region and, especially, with the new coffee cultivation in the Paraíba Valley. In order to separate the province from the capital of the Empire, the city was converted, in the year of 1834, in Neutral Municipality, passing the province of Rio de Janeiro to have Niterói as capital.\nAs a political center of the country, Rio concentrated the political-partisan life of the Empire. It was the main stage of the abolitionist and republican movements in the last half of the 19th century. At that time the number of African slaves was drastically reduced and the city was developed, with modern drains, animal trams, train stations crossing the city, gas and electric lighting, telephone and telegraph wiring, water and river plumbing. Rio continued as the capital of Brazil after 1889, when the monarchy was replaced by a republic.\n\nOn 6 February 1889 the Bangu Textile Factory was founded, with the name of Industrial Progress Company of Brazil (Companhia Progresso Industrial do Brasil). The factory was officially opened on 8 March 1893, in a complex with varying architectural styles like Italianate, Neo-Gothic and a tower in Mansard Roof style. After the opening in 1893, workers from Great Britain arrived in Bangu to work in the textile factory. The old farms became worker villages with red bricks houses, and a neo-gothic church was created, which still exists as the Saint Sebastian and Saint Cecilia Parish Church. Street cinemas and cultural buildings also appeared. In May 1894, Thomas Donohoe, a British worker from Busby, Scotland, arrived in Bangu.\n\nDonohoe was horrified to discover that there was no knowledge of football among Brazilians. So he wrote to his wife, Elizabeth, asking her to bring a football when she joined him. And shortly after her arrival, in September 1894, the first football match in Brazil took place in the field beside the textile factory. It was a five-a-side match between British workers, and took place six months before the first game organized by Charles Miller in São Paulo. However, the Bangu Football Club was not formally created until 1904.\n\nAt the time Brazil's Old Republic was established, the city lacked urban planning and sanitation, which helped spread several diseases, such as yellow fever, dysentery, variola, tuberculosis and even black death. Pereira Passos, who was named mayor in 1902, imposed reforms to modernize the city, demolishing the cortiços where most of the poor population lived. These people, mostly descendants of slaves, then moved to live in the city's hills, creating the first favelas. Inspired by the city of Paris, Passos built the Municipal Theatre, the National Museum of Fine Arts and the National Library in the city's center; brought electric power to Rio and created larger avenues to adapt the city to automobiles. Passos also named Dr. Oswaldo Cruz as Director General of Public Health. Cruz's plans to clean the city of diseases included compulsory vaccination of the entire population and forced entry into houses to kill mosquitos and rats. The people of city rebelled against Cruz's policy, in what would be known as the Vaccine Revolt.\n\nIn 1910, Rio saw the Revolt of the Lash, where Afro-Brazilian crew members in the Brazilian Navy mutinied against the heavy use of corporal punishment, which was similar to the punishment slaves received. The mutineers took control of the battleship \"Minas Geraes\" and threatened to fire on the city. Another military revolt occurred in 1922, the 18 of the Copacabana Fort revolt, a march against the Old Republic's coronelism and café com leite politics. This revolt marked the beginning of Tenentism, a movement that resulted in the Brazilian Revolution of 1930 that started the Vargas Era.\n\nUntil the early years of the 20th century, the city was largely limited to the neighbourhood now known as the historic city centre (see below), on the mouth of Guanabara Bay. The city's centre of gravity began to shift south and west to the so-called Zona Sul (South Zone) in the early part of the 20th century, when the first tunnel was built under the mountains between Botafogo and the neighbourhood that is now known as Copacabana. Expansion of the city to the north and south was facilitated by the consolidation and electrification of Rio's streetcar transit system after 1905. Botafogo's natural environment, combined with the fame of the Copacabana Palace Hotel, \"the\" luxury hotel of the Americas in the 1930s, helped Rio to gain the reputation it still holds today as a beach party town (although this reputation has been somewhat tarnished in recent years by favela violence resulting from the narcotics trade).\n\nPlans for moving the nation's capital city from Rio de Janeiro to the centre of Brazil had been occasionally discussed, and when Juscelino Kubitschek was elected president in 1955, it was partially on the strength of promises to build a new capital. Though many thought that it was just campaign rhetoric, Kubitschek managed to have Brasília and a new Federal District built, at great cost, by 1960. On 21 April of that year the capital of Brazil was officially moved to Brasília. The territory of the former Federal District became its own state, Guanabara, after the bay that borders it to the east, encompassing just the city of Rio de Janeiro. After the 1964 coup d'état that installed a military dictatorship, the city-state was the only state left in Brazil to oppose the military. Then, in 1975, a presidential decree known as \"The Fusion\" removed the city's federative status and merged it with the State of Rio de Janeiro, with the city of Rio de Janeiro replacing Niterói as the state's capital, and establishing the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region.\n\nIn 1992, Rio hosted the Earth Summit, a United Nations conference to fight environmental degradation. Twenty years later, in 2012, the city hosted another conference on sustainable development, named United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. The city hosted the World Youth Day in 2013, the second World Youth Day in South America and first in Brazil. In the sports field, Rio de Janeiro was the host of the 2007 Pan American Games and the 2014 FIFA World Cup Final. On 2 October 2009, the International Olympic Committee announced that Rio de Janeiro would host the 2016 Olympic Games and the 2016 Paralympic Games, beating competitors Chicago, Tokyo, and Madrid. The city became the first South American city to host the event and the second Latin American city (after Mexico City in 1968) to host the Games.\nRio de Janeiro is on the far western part of a strip of Brazil's Atlantic coast (between a strait east to Ilha Grande, on the Costa Verde, and the Cabo Frio), close to the Tropic of Capricorn, where the shoreline is oriented east–west. Facing largely south, the city was founded on an inlet of this stretch of the coast, Guanabara Bay (Baía de Guanabara), and its entrance is marked by a point of land called Sugar Loaf (Pão de Açúcar) – a \"calling card\" of the city.\n\nThe Centre (Centro), the core of Rio, lies on the plains of the western shore of Guanabara Bay. The greater portion of the city, commonly referred to as the North Zone (Zona Norte), extends to the northwest on plains composed of marine and continental sediments and on hills and several rocky mountains. The South Zone (Zona Sul) of the city, reaching the beaches fringing the open sea, is cut off from the Centre and from the North Zone by coastal mountains. These mountains and hills are offshoots of the Serra do Mar to the northwest, the ancient gneiss-granite mountain chain that forms the southern slopes of the Brazilian Highlands. The large West Zone (Zona Oeste), long cut off by the mountainous terrain, had been made more easily accessible to those on the South Zone by new roads and tunnels by the end of the 20th century.\n\nThe population of the city of Rio de Janeiro, occupying an area of , is about 6,000,000. The population of the greater metropolitan area is estimated at 11–13.5 million. Residents of the city are known as \"cariocas\". The official song of Rio is \"Cidade Maravilhosa\", by composer André Filho.\n\nThe city has parks and ecological reserves such as the Tijuca National Park, the world's first urban forest and UNESCO Environmental Heritage and Biosphere Reserve; Pedra Branca State Park, which houses the highest point of Rio de Janeiro, the peak of Pedra Branca; the Quinta da Boa Vista complex; the Botanical Garden; Rio's Zoo; Parque Lage; and the Passeio Público, the first public park in the Americas. In addition the Flamengo Park is the largest landfill in the city, extending from the center to the south zone, and containing museums and monuments, in addition to much vegetation.\n\nDue to the high concentration of industries in the metropolitan region, the city has faced serious problems of environmental pollution. The Guanabara Bay has lost mangrove areas and suffers from residues from domestic and industrial sewage, oils and heavy metals. Although its waters renew when they reach the sea, the bay is the final receiver of all the tributaries generated along its banks and in the basins of the many rivers and streams that flow into it. The levels of particulate matter in the air are twice as high as that recommended by the World Health Organization, in part because of the large numbers of vehicles in circulation.\n\nThe waters of Sepetiba Bay are slowly following the path traced by Guanabara Bay, with sewage generated by a population of the order of 1.29 million inhabitants being released without treatment in streams or rivers. With regard to industrial pollution, highly toxic wastes, with high concentrations of heavy metals – mainly zinc and cadmium – have been dumped over the years by factories in the industrial districts of Santa Cruz, Itaguaí and Nova Iguaçu, constructed under the supervision of State policies.\n\nThe Marapendi lagoon and the Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon have suffered with the leniency of the authorities and the growth in the number of apartment buildings close by. The clandestine discharge of sewage and the consequent proliferation of algae diminish the oxygenation of the waters, causing fish mortality.\n\nThere are, on the other hand, signs of decontamination in the lagoon made through a public-private partnership established in 2008 to ensure that the lagoon waters will eventually be suitable for bathing. The decontamination actions involve the transfer of sludge to large craters present in the lagoon itself, and the creation of a new direct and underground connection with the sea, which will contribute to increase the daily water exchange between the two environments. However, during the Olympics the lagoon hosted the rowing competitions and there were numerous concerns about potential infection resulting from human sewage.\n\nRio has a tropical savanna climate (\"Aw\") that closely borders a tropical monsoon climate (\"Am\") according to the Köppen climate classification, and is often characterized by long periods of heavy rain between December and March. The city experiences hot, humid summers, and mild, wet winters. In inland areas of the city, temperatures above are common during the summer, though rarely for long periods, while maximum temperatures above can occur on a monthly basis.\n\nAlong the coast, the breeze, blowing onshore and offshore, moderates the temperature. Because of its geographic situation, the city is often reached by cold fronts advancing from Antarctica, especially during autumn and winter, causing frequent weather changes. In summer there can be strong rains, which have, on some occasions, provoked catastrophic floods and landslides. The mountainous areas register greater rainfall since they constitute a barrier to the humid wind that comes from the Atlantic. It is the Portuguese word for Flemish, and it was given to the nearby beach (Praia do Flamengo, Beach of the Flemish) because it was the place where the Dutch sailor Olivier van Noort tried to invade the city in 1599. At that time, the Dutchmen were called \"Flemish\" by the Portuguese.\n\nThe city reputedly has had rare frosts in the past, but this has never been decisively confirmed. Some areas within Rio de Janeiro state occasionally have falls of snow grains and ice pellets (popularly called , or \"hail\", although it is in fact melted and refrozen snow falling in the form of hail, rather than just icy snow). These phenomena are definitely not rare or limited to a few regions, having already happened in the metropolitan area (including western suburbs of the city itself) several times in the 21st century.\n\nDrought is very rare, albeit bound to happen occasionally given the city's strongly seasonal tropical climate. The Brazilian drought of 2014–2015, most severe in the Southeast Region and the worst in decades, affected the entire metropolitan region's water supply (a diversion from the Paraíba do Sul River to the Guandu River is a major source for the state's most populous mesoregion). There were plans to divert the Paraíba do Sul to the Sistema Cantareira (Cantareira system) during the water crisis of 2014 in order to help the critically drought-stricken Greater São Paulo area. However, availability of sufficient rainfall to supply tap water to both metropolitan areas in the future is merely speculative.\n\nRoughly in the same suburbs (Nova Iguaçu and surrounding areas, including parts of Campo Grande and Bangu) that correspond to the location of the March 2012, February–March 2013 and January 2015 pseudo-hail (\"granizo\") falls, there was a tornado-like phenomenon in January 2011, for the first time in the region's recorded history, causing structural damage and long-lasting blackouts, but no fatalities. The World Meteorological Organization has advised that Brazil, especially its southeastern region, must be prepared for increasingly severe weather occurrences in the near future, since events such as the catastrophic January 2011 Rio de Janeiro floods and mudslides are not an isolated phenomenon. In early May 2013, winds registering above caused blackouts in 15 neighborhoods of the city and three surrounding municipalities, and killed one person. Rio saw similarly high winds (about ) in January 2015. The average annual minimum temperature is , the average annual maximum temperature is , and the average annual temperature is . The average yearly precipitation is .\n\nTemperature also varies according to elevation, distance from the coast, and type of vegetation or land use. Winter, cold fronts and dawn/morning sea breezes bring mild temperatures; cold fronts, the Intertropical Convergence Zone (in the form of winds from the Amazon Forest), the strongest sea-borne winds (often from an extratropical cyclone) and summer evapotranspiration bring showers or storms. Thus the monsoon-like climate has dry and mild winters and springs, and very wet and warm summers and autumns. As a result, temperatures over , that may happen about year-round but are much more common during the summer, often mean the actual temperature feeling is over , when there is little wind and the relative humidity percentage is high.\n\nRio de Janeiro is second only to Cuiabá as the hottest Brazilian state capital outside Northern and Northeastern Brazil; temperatures below occur yearly, while those lower than happen less often. The phrase, \"fazer frio\" (\"making cold\", i.e. \"the weather is getting cold\"), usually refers to temperatures going below , which is possible year-round and is commonplace in mid-to-late autumn, winter and early spring nights.\n\nBetween 1961 and 1990, at the INMET (Brazilian National Institute of Meteorology) conventional station in the neighborhood of Saúde, the lowest temperature recorded was in October 1977, and the highest temperature recorded was in December 1963. The highest accumulated rainfall in 24 hours was in January 1962. However, the absolute minimum temperature ever recorded at the INMET Jacarepaguá station, in July 1974, while the absolute maximum was 26 December 2012, in the neighborhood of the Santa Cruz station, while the highest accumulated rainfall in 24 hours, of was recorded at the Santa Teresa station in April 1967. The lowest temperature ever registered in the 21st century was in Vila Militar, July 2011.\n\nAverage annual temperature of the sea is , from in the period July–October to in February and March. The dominant ocean current is the warm Brazil Current (as most of elsewhere in the Santos Bight between Santa Catarina and Cabo Frio; the subsurface part of the cold subantarctic Malvinas Current only slightly resurfaces to affect the latter, giving the characteristic semi-arid climate in parts of Arraial do Cabo, the only occurrence of such in the whole state). The wettest and driest months tend to be January and August respectively.\n\nThe city is commonly divided into the historic center (Centro); the tourist-friendly wealthier South Zone (Zona Sul); the residential less wealthy North Zone (Zona Norte); peripheries in the West Zone (Zona Oeste), among them Santa Cruz, Campo Grande and the wealthy newer Barra da Tijuca district.\n\nCentro or Downtown is the historic core of the city, as well as its financial centre. Sites of interest include the Paço Imperial, built during colonial times to serve as a residence for the Portuguese governors of Brazil; many historic churches, such as the Candelária Church (the former cathedral), São Jose, Santa Lucia, Nossa Senhora do Carmo, Santa Rita, São Francisco de Paula, and the monasteries of Santo Antônio and São Bento. The Centro also houses the modern concrete Rio de Janeiro Cathedral. Around the Cinelândia square, there are several landmarks of the \"Belle Époque\" of Rio, such as the Municipal Theatre and the National Library building.\n\nAmong its several museums, the Museu Nacional de Belas Artes (National Museum of Fine Arts) and the Museu Histórico Nacional (National Historical Museum) are the most important. Other important historical attractions in central Rio include its Passeio Público, an 18th-century public garden. Major streets include Avenida Rio Branco and Avenida Vargas, both constructed, in 1906 and 1942 respectively, by destroying large swaths of the colonial city. A number of colonial streets, such as Rua do Ouvidor and Uruguaiana, have long been pedestrian spaces, and the popular Saara shopping district has been pedestrianized more recently. Also located in the center is the traditional neighbourhood called Lapa, an important bohemian area frequented by both townspeople and tourists.\n\nThe South Zone of Rio de Janeiro () is composed of several districts, among which are São Conrado, Leblon, Ipanema, Arpoador, Copacabana, and Leme, which compose Rio's famous Atlantic beach coastline. Other districts in the South Zone are Glória, Catete, Flamengo, Botafogo, and Urca, which border Guanabara Bay, and Santa Teresa, Cosme Velho, Laranjeiras, Humaitá, Lagoa, Jardim Botânico, and Gávea. It is the wealthiest part of the city and the best known overseas; the neighborhoods of Leblon and Ipanema, in particular, have the most expensive real estate in all of South America.\n\nThe neighbourhood of Copacabana beach hosts one of the world's most spectacular New Year's Eve parties (\"Reveillon\"), as more than two million revelers crowd onto the sands to watch the fireworks display. From 2001, the fireworks have been launched from boats, to improve the safety of the event. To the north of Leme, and at the entrance to Guanabara Bay, is the district of Urca and the Sugarloaf Mountain ('Pão de Açúcar'), whose name describes the famous mountain rising out of the sea. The summit can be reached via a two-stage cable car trip from Praia Vermelha, with the intermediate stop on Morro da Urca. It offers views of the city second only to Corcovado mountain. Hang gliding is a popular activity on the Pedra Bonita (literally, \"Beautiful Rock\"). After a short flight, gliders land on the Praia do Pepino (\"Pepino\", or \"cucumber\", Beach) in São Conrado.\n\nSince 1961, the Tijuca National Park (Parque Nacional da Tijuca), the largest city-surrounded urban forest and the second largest urban forest in the world, has been a National Park. The largest urban forest in the world is the Floresta da Pedra Branca (White Rock Forest), which is located in the West Zone of Rio de Janeiro. The Pontifical Catholic University of Rio (Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro or PUC-Rio), Brazil's top private university, is located at the edge of the forest, in the Gávea district. The 1984 film \"Blame It on Rio\" was filmed nearby, with the rental house used by the story's characters sitting at the edge of the forest on a mountain overlooking the famous beaches. In 2012, CNN elected Ipanema the best city beach in the world.\n\nThe North Zone () begins at Grande Tijuca (the middle class residential and commercial \"bairro\" of Tijuca), just west of the city center, and sprawls for miles inland until Baixada Fluminense and the city's Northwest.\n\nThis region is home to the Maracanã stadium (located in Grande Tijuca), once the world's highest capacity football venue, able to hold nearly 199,000 people, as it did for the World Cup final of 1950. More recently its capacity has been reduced to conform with modern safety regulations and the stadium has introduced seating for all fans. Currently undergoing reconstruction, it has now the capacity for 90,000; it will eventually hold around 80,000 people. Maracanã was the site for the Opening and Closing Ceremonies and football competition of the 2007 Pan American Games; hosted the final match of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, the Opening and Closing Ceremonies and the football matches of the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nBesides Maracanã, the North Zone of Rio also has other tourist and historical attractions, such \"Nossa Senhora da Penha de França Church\", the Christ the Redeemer (statue) with its stairway built into the rock bed, 'Manguinhos', the home of Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, a centenarian biomedical research institution with a main building fashioned like a Moorish palace, and the Quinta da Boa Vista, the park where the historic Imperial Palace is located. Nowadays, the palace hosts the National Museum, specialising in Natural History, Archaeology, and Ethnology. The International Airport of Rio de Janeiro (Galeão – Antônio Carlos Jobim International Airport, named after the famous Brazilian musician Antônio Carlos Jobim), the main campus of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro at the Fundão Island, and the State University of Rio de Janeiro, in Maracanã, are also located in the Northern part of Rio.\n\nThis region is also home to most of the samba schools of Rio de Janeiro such as Mangueira, Salgueiro, Império Serrano, Unidos da Tijuca, Imperatriz Leopoldinense, among others. Some of the main neighbourhoods of Rio's North Zone are Alto da Boa Vista which shares the Tijuca Rainforest with the South and Southwest Zones; Tijuca, Vila Isabel, Méier, São Cristovão, Madureira, Penha, Manguinhos, Fundão, Olaria among others. Many of Rio de Janeiro's roughly 1000 slums, or favelas, are located in the North Zone. The favelas resemble the slums of Paris, New York or other major cities in the 19th and early 20th centuries in the United States and Europe, or similar neighborhoods in present underdeveloped countries.\n\nWest Zone (\"Zona Oeste\") of Rio de Janeiro is a complicated place that makes up more than 50% of the city area, including Barra da Tijuca and Recreio dos Bandeirantes neighborhoods. The West Side of Rio has many historic sites because of the old \"Royal Road of Santa Cruz\" that crossed the territory in the regions of Realengo, Bangu, and Campo Grande, finishing at the Royal Palace of Santa Cruz in the Santa Cruz region. The highest peak of the city of Rio de Janeiro is the Pedra Branca Peak (Pico da Pedra Branca) inside the Pedra Branca State Park. It has an altitude of 1024m. The Pedra Branca State Park (Parque Estadual da Pedra Branca) is the biggest urban state park in the world comprising 17 neighborhoods in the west side, being a \"giant lung\" in the city with trails, waterfalls and historic constructions like an old aqueduct in the Colônia Juliano Moreira in the neighborhood of Taquara and a dam in Camorim. The park has three principal entrances: the main one is in Taquara called Pau da Fome Core, another entrance is the Piraquara Core in Realengo and the last one is the Camorim Core, considered the cultural heritage of the city.\n\nSanta Cruz and Campo Grande Region have exhibited economic growth, mainly in the Campo Grande neighborhood. Industrial enterprises are being built in lower and lower middle class residential Santa Cruz, one of the largest and most populous of Rio de Janeiro's neighbourhoods, most notably Companhia Siderúrgica do Atlântico (CSA), a new steel mill with its own private docks on Sepetiba Bay, which is planned to be South America's largest steel works. A tunnel called \"Túnel da Grota Funda\", opened in 2012, creating a public transit facility between Barra da Tijuca and Santa Cruz, lessening travel time to the region from other areas of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThis is an elite area of the West Zone of the city of Rio de Janeiro. It includes Barra da Tijuca, Recreio dos Bandeirantes, Vargem Grande, Vargem Pequena, Grumari, Itanhangá, Camorim and Joá. Westwards from the older zones of Rio, Barra da Tijuca is a flat complex of barrier islands of formerly undeveloped coastal land, which constantly experiences new constructions and developments. It remains an area of accelerated growth, attracting some of the richer sectors of the population as well as luxury companies. High rise flats and sprawling shopping centers give the area a far more modern feel than the crowded city centre.\n\nThe urban planning of the area, completed in the late 1960s, mixes zones of single-family houses with residential skyscrapers. The beaches of Barra da Tijuca are also popular with the residents from other parts of the city. One of the most famous hills in the city is the Pedra da Gávea (Crow's nest Rock) bordering the South Zone. On the top of its summit is a huge rock formation (some, such as Erich von Däniken in his 1973 book, \"In Search of Ancient Gods\", claim it to be a sculpture) resembling a sphinx-like, bearded head that is visible for many kilometres around.\n\nAccording to the 2010 IBGE Census, there were 5,940,224 people residing in the city of Rio de Janeiro. The census revealed the following numbers: 3,239,888 White people (51.2%), 2,318,675 Pardo (multiracial) people (36.5%), 708,148 Black people (11.5%), 45,913 Asian people (0.7%), 5,981 Amerindian people (0.1%). The population of Rio de Janeiro was 53.2% female and 46.8% male.\n\nIn 2010, the city of Rio de Janeiro was the 2nd most populous city in Brazil, after São Paulo.\n\nDifferent ethnic groups contributed to the formation of the population of Rio de Janeiro. Before European colonization, there were at least seven different indigenous peoples speaking 20 languages in the region. A part of them joined the Portuguese and the other the French. Those who joined the French were then exterminated by the Portuguese, while the other part was assimilated.\n\nRio de Janeiro is home to the largest Portuguese population outside of Lisbon in Portugal. After independence from Portugal, Rio de Janeiro became a destination for hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Portugal, mainly in the early 20th century. The immigrants were mostly poor peasants who subsequently found prosperity in Rio as city workers and small traders. The Portuguese cultural influence is still seen in many parts of the city (and many other parts of the state of Rio de Janeiro), including architecture and language. Most Brazilians with some cultural contact with Rio know how to easily differentiate between the local dialect, \"fluminense\", and other Brazilian dialects.\n\nPeople of Portuguese ancestry predominate in most of the state. The Brazilian census of 1920 showed that 39.7% of the Portuguese who lived in Brazil lived in Rio de Janeiro. Including all of the Rio de Janeiro, the proportion raised to 46.3% of the Portuguese who lived in Brazil. The numerical presence of the Portuguese was extremely high, accounting for 72% of the foreigners who lived in the capital. Portuguese born people accounted for 20.4% of the population of Rio, and those with a Portuguese father or a Portuguese mother accounted for 30.8%. In other words, native born Portuguese and their children accounted for 51.2% of the inhabitants of Rio, or a total of 267,664 people in 1890.\n\nThe black community was formed by residents whose ancestors had been brought as slaves, mostly from Angola and Mozambique, as well by people of Angolan, Mozambican and West African descent who moved to Rio from other parts of Brazil. The samba (from Bahia with Angolan influence) and the famous local version of the carnival (from Europe) first appeared under the influence of the black community in the city.\n\nToday, nearly half of the city's population is by phenotype perceptibly black or part black. A large majority has some recent Subsaharan ancestor. White in Brazil is defined more by having a European-looking phenotype rather than ancestry, and two full siblings can be of different \"racial\" categories in a skin color and phenotype continuum from \"pálido\" (\"branco\") or fair-skinned, through \"branco moreno\" or swarthy Caucasian, \"mestiço claro\" or lighter skinned multiracial, \"pardo\" (mixed race) to \"negro\" or black. Pardo, for example, in popular usage includes those who are \"caboclos\" (mestizos), \"mulatos\" (mulattoes), \"cafuzos\" (zambos), \"juçaras\" (archaic term for tri-racials) and westernized Amerindians (which are called \"caboclos\" as well), being more of a skin color rather than a racial group in particular.\n\nAs a result of the influx of immigrants to Brazil from the late 19th to the early 20th century, also found in Rio de Janeiro and its metropolitan area are communities of Levantine Arabs who are mostly Christian or Irreligious, Spaniards, Italians, Germans, Japanese, Jews, and people from other parts of Brazil. The main waves of internal migration came from people of African, mixed or older Portuguese (as descendants of early settlers) descent from Minas Gerais and people of Eastern European, Swiss, Italian, German, Portuguese and older Portuguese-Brazilian heritage from Espírito Santo in the early and mid-20th century, together with people with origins in Northeastern Brazil, in the mid-to-late and late 20th century, as well some in the early 21st century (the latter more directed to peripheries than the city's core).\n\nAccording to an autosomal DNA study from 2009, conducted on a school in the poor suburb of Rio de Janeiro, the \"pardos\" there were found to be on average about 80% European, and the \"whites\" (who thought of themselves as \"very mixed\") were found to carry very little Amerindian and/or African admixtures. The results of the tests of genomic ancestry are quite different from the self made estimates of European ancestry. In general, the test results showed that European ancestry is far more important than the students thought it would be. The \"pardos\" for example thought of themselves as ⅓ European, ⅓ African and ⅓ Amerindian before the tests, and yet their ancestry on average reached 80% European. Other studies showed similar results\n\nRio de Janeiro is the second largest city in Brazil (after São Paulo) and has a rapidly expanding population and rapidly growing area due to rapid urbanization.\n\nThe Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area, according to 2009 research from Fundação Getúlio Vargas (known as ), ranks first in Brazil in the percentage of Catholics (51.1%) living there. Rio de Janeiro city also ranks fifth among Brazilian state capital cities in the percentage of its population that is irreligious (13.3%), barely changing since 2000 (the first-ranked, Boa Vista, has 21.2% irreligious). It is also the Brazilian state capital with the greatest percentage of Spiritists (now about 4–5%), and with substantial numbers in Afro-Brazilian religions and Eastern religions.\n\nThere are significant disparities between the rich and the poor in Rio de Janeiro, and different socioeconomic groups are largely segregated into different neighborhoods. Although the city clearly ranks among the world's major metropolises, large numbers live in slums known as favelas, where 95% of the population are poor, compared to 40% in the general population.\n\nThere have been a number of government initiatives to counter this problem, from the removal of the population from favelas to housing projects such as Cidade de Deus to the more recent approach of improving conditions in the favelas and bringing them up to par with the rest of the city, as was the focus of the \"Favela Bairro\" program and deployment of Pacifying Police Units.\n\nRio has more people living in slums than any other city in Brazil, according to the 2010 Census. More than 1,500,000 people live in its 763 favelas, 22% of Rio's total population. São Paulo, the largest city in Brazil, has more favelas (1,020) in sheer numbers, but proportionally has fewer people living in favelas than Rio.\n\nRio de Janeiro has the second largest GDP of any city in Brazil, surpassed only by São Paulo. According to the IBGE, it was approximately US$201 billion in 2008, equivalent to 5.1% of the national total. Taking into consideration the network of influence exerted by the urban metropolis (which covers 11.3% of the population), this share in GDP rises to 14.4%, according to a study released in October 2008 by the IBGE.\n\nGreater Rio de Janeiro, as perceived by the IBGE, has a GDP of US$187 billion, constituting the second largest hub of national wealth. Per capita GDP is US$11,786. It concentrates 68% of the state's economic strength and 7.9% of all goods and services produced in the country. The services sector comprises the largest portion of GDP (65.5%), followed by commerce (23.4%), industrial activities (11.1%) and agriculture (0.1%).\n\nBenefiting from the federal capital position it had for a long period (1763–1960), the city became a dynamic administrative, financial, commercial and cultural center. Rio de Janeiro became an attractive place for companies to locate when it was the capital of Brazil, as important sectors of society and of the government were present in the city, even when their factories were located in other cities or states. The city was chosen as headquarters for state-owned companies such as Petrobras, Eletrobras, Caixa Econômica Federal, National Economic and Social Development Bank and Vale (which was privatized in the 1990s). The Rio de Janeiro Stock Exchange (BVRJ), which currently trades only government securities, was the first stock exchange founded in Brazil in 1845. Despite the transfer of the capital to Brasília in 1960, many of these headquarters remained within the Rio metropolitan area.\n\nThe off-shore oil exploration in the Campos Basin began in 1968 and became the main site for oil production of Brazil. This caused many oil and gas companies to be based in Rio de Janeiro, such as the Brazilian branches of Shell, EBX and Esso. For many years Rio was the second largest industrial hub of Brazil, with oil refineries, shipbuilding industries, steel, metallurgy, petrochemicals, cement, pharmaceutical, textile, processed foods and furniture industries.\n\nMajor international pharmaceutical companies have their Brazilian headquarters in Rio such as: Merck, Roche, Arrow, Darrow, Baxter, Mayne, and Mappel. A newer electronics and computer sector has been added to the more-established industries. Construction, also an important activity, provides a significant source of employment for large numbers of unskilled workers and is buoyed by the number of seasonal residents who build second homes in the Greater Rio de Janeiro area.\n\nRio is an important financial centre, second only to São Paulo in volume of business. Its securities market, although declining in significance relative to São Paulo, is still of major importance. Recent decades have seen a sharp transformation in its economic profile, which is becoming more and more one of a major national hub of services and businesses. The city is the headquarters of large telecom companies, such as Intelig, Oi and Embratel. Major Brazilian entertainment and media organizations are based in Rio de Janeiro like Organizações Globo and also some of Brazil's major newspapers: \"Jornal do Brasil\", \"O Dia\", and \"Business Rio\".\n\nTourism and entertainment are other key aspects of the city's economic life. The city is the nation's top tourist attraction for both Brazilians and foreigners.\n\nTo attract industry, the state government has designated certain areas on the outskirts of the city as industrial districts where infrastructure is provided and land sales are made under special conditions. Oil and natural gas from fields off the northern coast of Rio de Janeiro state are a major asset used for developing manufacturing activities in Rio's metropolitan area, enabling it to compete with other major cities for new investment in industry.\n\nOwing to the proximity of Rio's port facilities, many of Brazil's export-import companies are headquartered in the city. In Greater Rio, which has one of the highest per capita incomes in Brazil, retail trade is substantial. Many of the most important retail stores are located in the Centre, but others are scattered throughout the commercial areas of the other districts, where shopping centres, supermarkets, and other retail businesses handle a large volume of consumer trade.\n\nRio de Janeiro is () the second largest exporting municipality in Brazil. Annually, Rio exported a total of $7.49B (USD) worth of goods. The top three goods exported by the municipality were crude petroleum (40%), semi finished iron product (16%), and semi finished steel products (11%). Material categories of mineral products (42%) and metals (29%) make up 71% of all exports from Rio.\n\nCompared to other cities, Rio de Janeiro's economy is the 2nd largest in Brazil, behind São Paulo, and the 30th largest in the world with a GDP of R$ 201,9 billion in 2010. The per capita income for the city was R$22,903 in 2007 (around ). Largely because of the strength of Brazil's currency at the time, Mercer's city rankings of cost of living for expatriate employees, reported that Rio de Janeiro ranked 12th among the most expensive cities in the world in 2011, up from the 29th position in 2010, just behind São Paulo (ranked 10th), and ahead of London, Paris, Milan, and New York City. Rio also had the most expensive hotel rates in Brazil, and the daily rate of its five star hotels were the second most expensive in the world after only New York City.\n\nRio de Janeiro is Brazil's primary tourist attraction and resort. It receives the most visitors per year of any city in South America with 2.82 million international tourists a year.\n\nThe city world-class hotels, approximately 80 kilometres of beaches and the famous Corcovado and Sugarloaf mountains. While the city had in past had a thriving tourism sector, the industry entered a decline in the last quarter of the 20th century. Annual international airport arrivals dropped from 621,000 to 378,000 and average hotel occupancy dropped to 50% between 1985 and 1993.\n\nThe fact that Brasília replaced Rio de Janeiro as the Brazilian capital in 1960 and that São Paulo replaced Rio as the country's commercial, financial and main cultural center during the mid-20th century, has also been cited as a leading cause of the decline.\n\nRio de Janeiro's government has since undertaken to modernise the city's economy, reduce its chronic social inequalities, and improve its commercial standing as part of an initiative for the regeneration of the tourism industry.\n\nThe city is an important global LGBT destination, 1 million LGBT tourists visiting each year. The \"Rua Farme de Amoedo\" is located in Ipanema, a famous neighborhood in the South Zone of Rio de Janeiro. The street and the nearby beach, famous tourist spots, are remarkable for their popularity in the LGBT community. Rio de Janeiro is the most awarded destination by World Travel Awards in the South American category of \"best destination\".\n\nThe Portuguese language is the official and national language, and thus the primary language taught in schools. English and Spanish are also part of the official curriculum. There are also international schools, such as the American School of Rio de Janeiro, Our Lady of Mercy School, the Corcovado German School, the Lycée Français and the British School of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe city has several universities and research institutes. The Ministry of Education has certified approximately 99 upper-learning institutions in Rio. \nThe most prestigious university is the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, the fifth best in Latin America, and the second best in Brazil, second only to the University of São Paulo, the best in Latin America, according to the QS World University Rankings.\n\nSome notable higher education institutions are: Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ); Federal University of the Rio de Janeiro state (UNIRIO); Rio de Janeiro State University (UERJ); Federal Rural University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRRJ, often nicknamed \"Rural\"); Fluminense Federal University (UFF); Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio); Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV); Military Institute of Engineering (IME); Superior Institute of Technology in Computer Science of Rio de Janeiro (IST-Rio); College of Publicity and Marketing (ESPM); National Institute of Pure and Applied Mathematics (IMPA) and Federal Center of Technological Education Celso Suckow da Fonseca (CEFET/RJ). There are more than 137 upper-learning institutions in whole Rio de Janeiro state.\n\nPrimary schools are largely under municipal administration, while the state plays a more significant role in the extensive network of secondary schools. There are also a small number of schools under federal administration, as is the case of Pedro II School, Colégio de Aplicação da UFRJ and the Centro Federal de Educação Tecnológica of Rio de Janeiro (CEFET-RJ). In addition, Rio has an ample offering of private schools that provide education at all levels. Rio is home to many colleges and universities. The literacy rate for cariocas aged 10 and older is nearly 95 percent, well above the national average.\n\nThe Rio de Janeiro State University (public), Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (public), Brazilian Institute of Capital Markets (private) and Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (private) are among the country's top institutions of higher education. Other institutes of higher learning include the Colégio Regina Coeli in Usina, notable for having its own narrow gauge funicular railway on its grounds.\n\nIn Rio, there were 1,033 primary schools with 25,594 teachers and 667,788 students in 1995. There are 370 secondary schools with 9,699 teachers and 227,892 students. There are 53 University-preparatory schools with 14,864 teachers and 154,447 students. The city has six major universities and 47 private schools of higher learning.\n\nRio de Janeiro is a main cultural hub in Brazil. Its architecture embraces churches and buildings dating from the 16th to the 19th centuries, blending with the world-renowned designs of the 20th century. Rio was home to the Portuguese Imperial family and capital of the country for many years, and was influenced by Portuguese, English, and French architecture.\n\nRio de Janeiro has inherited a strong cultural role from the past. In the late 19th century, there were sessions held of the first Brazilian film and since then, several production cycles have spread out, eventually placing Rio at the forefront of experimental and national cinema. The Rio de Janeiro International Film Festival has been held annually since 1999.\n\nRio currently brings together the main production centers of Brazilian television. Major international films set in Rio de Janeiro include \"Blame it on Rio\"; the James Bond film \"Moonraker\"; the Oscar award-winning, critically acclaimed \"Central Station\" by Walter Salles, who is also one of Brazil's best-known directors; and the Oscar award-winning historical drama, \"Black Orpheus\", which depicted the early days of Carnaval in Rio de Janeiro. Internationally famous, Brazilian-made movies illustrating a darker side of Rio de Janeiro include \"Elite Squad\" and \"City of God\".\nRio has many important cultural landmarks, such as the Biblioteca Nacional (National Library), one of the largest libraries in the world with collections totalling more than 9 million items; the Theatro Municipal; the National Museum of Fine Arts; the Carmen Miranda Museum; the Rio de Janeiro Botanical Garden; the Parque Lage; the Quinta da Boa Vista; the Imperial Square; the Brazilian Academy of Letters; the Museu de Arte Moderna do Rio de Janeiro; and the Natural History Museum.\n\nAfter Brazilian independence from Portugal in 1822, Rio de Janeiro quickly developed a European-style bourgeois cultural life, including numerous newspapers, in which most 19th-century novels were initially published in serial. Joaquim Manuel de Macedo's \"A Moreninha\" (1844) was perhaps the first successful novel in Brazil and inaugurates a recurrent 19th-century theme: a romantic relationship between idealistic young people in spite of cruelties of social fortune.\nThe first notable work of realism focusing on the urban lower-middle class is Manuel Antônio de Almeida's \"Memórias de um sargento de milícias\" (1854), which presents a series of picaresque but touching scenes, and evokes the transformation of a town into a city with suggestive nostalgia. Romantic and realist modes both flourished through the late 19th century and often overlapped within works.\n\nThe most famous author of Rio de Janeiro, however, was Machado de Assis, who is also widely regarded as the greatest writer of Brazilian literature and considered the founder of Realism in Brazil, with the publication of \"The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas\" (1881). He commented on and criticized the political and social events of the city and country such as the abolition of slavery in 1888 and the transition from Empire to Republic with his numerous chronicles published in newspapers of the time. Many of his short stories and novels, like \"Quincas Borba\" (1891) and \"Dom Casmurro\" (1899), are placed in Rio.\n\nThe headquarters of the Brazilian Academy of Letters is based in Rio de Janeiro. It was satirized by the novelist Jorge Amado in \"Pen, Sword, Camisole\". Amado, himself, went on to be one of the 40 members of the Academy.\n\nThe Biblioteca Nacional (National Library of Brazil) ranks as one of the largest libraries in the world. It is also the largest library in all of Latin America. Located in Cinelândia, the National Library was originally created by the King of Portugal, in 1810. As with many of Rio de Janeiro's cultural monuments, the library was originally off-limits to the general public. The most valuable collections in the library include: 4,300 items donated by Barbosa Machado including a precious collection of rare brochures detailing the History of Portugal and Brazil; 2,365 items from the 17th and 18th centuries that were previously owned by Antônio de Araújo de Azevedo, the \"Count of Barca\", including the 125-volume set of prints \"Le Grand Théâtre de l'Univers;\" a collection of documents regarding the Jesuítica Province of Paraguay and the \"Region of Prata;\" and the Teresa Cristina Maria Collection, donated by Emperor Pedro II. The collection contains 48,236 items. Individual items of special interest include a rare first edition of \"Os Lusíadas\" by Luis de Camões, published in 1584; two copies of the Mogúncia Bible; and a first edition of Handel's Messiah.\n\nThe Real Gabinete Português de Leitura (Portuguese Royal Reading Library) is located at Rua Luís de Camões, in the Centro (Downtown). The institution was founded in 1837 by a group of forty-three Portuguese immigrants, political refugees, to promote culture among the Portuguese community in the then capital of the Empire. The history of the Brazilian Academy of Letters is linked to the Real Gabinete, since some of the early meetings of the Academy were held there.\n\nThe official song of Rio de Janeiro is \"Cidade Maravilhosa\", which means \"marvelous city\". The song is considered the civic anthem of Rio, and is always the favourite song during Rio's Carnival in February. Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, are considered the centre of the urban music movement in Brazil.\n\n\"Rio was popularised by the hit song \"The Girl from Ipanema\", composed by Antônio Carlos Jobim and Vinicius de Moraes and recorded by Astrud Gilberto and João Gilberto, Frank Sinatra, and Ella Fitzgerald. It is also the main key song of the bossa nova, a music genre born in Rio. A genre unique to Rio and Brazil as a whole is Funk Carioca. While samba music continues to act as the national unifying agent in Rio, Funk Carioca found a strong community following in Brazil. With its genesis in the 1970s as the modern black pop music from the United States, it evolved in the 1990s to describe a variety of electronic music associated with the current US black music scene, including hip hop, modern soul, and house music.\"\n\nBrazil's return to democracy in 1985 after over 20 years of military authoritarian rule, and the subsequent end of rampant censorship, allowed for a new freedom of expression which promoted creativity and experimentation in expressive culture. Commercial and cultural imports from Europe and North America have often influenced Brazil's own cultural output. For example, the hip hop that has stemmed from New York is localized into forms of musical production such as Funk Carioca and Brazilian hip hop. Bands from Rio de Janeiro also had influence in the mid-to-late development of the Punk in Brazil, and that of Brazilian thrash metal. Democratic renewal also allowed for the recognition and acceptance of this diversification of Brazilian culture.\n\nRio de Janeiro's Theatro Municipal is one of the most attractive buildings in the central area of the city. Home of one of the largest stages in Latin America and one of Brazil's best known venues for opera, ballet, and classical music, the building was inspired by the Palais Garnier, home of the Paris Opera. Construction of the Theatro Municipal began in 1905 following designs of the architect Francisco Pereira Passos. The statues on the top, of two women representing Poetry and Music, are by Rodolfo Bernardelli, and the interior is rich with furnishings and fine paintings. Inaugurated in 1909, the Teatro Municipal has close to 1,700 seats. Its interior includes turn of the century stained glass from France, ceilings of rose-colored marble and a 1,000 pound crystal bead chandelier surrounded by a painting of the \"Dance of the Hours\". The exterior walls of the building are dotted with inscriptions bearing the names of famous Brazilians as well as many other international celebrities.\n\nCidade das Artes (City of Arts) is a cultural complex in Barra da Tijuca in the Southwest Zone of Rio de Janeiro, which was originally planned to open in 2004. Formally known as \"Cidade da Música\" (City of Music), it was finally inaugurated at the beginning of 2013.\nThe project will host the Brazilian Symphony Orchestra becoming a main center for music as will be the largest modern concert hall in South America, with 1,780 seats. The complex spans approximately and also features a chamber music hall, three theaters, and 12 rehearsal rooms. From the terrace there is a panoramic view of the zone. The building was designed by the French architect Christian de Portzamparc and construction was funded by the city of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nEvery 31 December, 2.5 million people gather at Copacabana Beach to celebrate New Year's in Rio de Janeiro. The crowd, mostly dressed in white, celebrates all night at the hundreds of different shows and events along the beach. It is the second largest celebration only next to the Carnival. People celebrate the New Year by sharing chilled champagne. It is considered good luck to shake the champagne bottle and spray around at midnight. Chilled champagne adds to the spirit of the festivities.\n\n\"Rock in Rio\" is a music festival conceived by entrepreneur Roberto Medina for the first time in 1985, and since its creation, recognized as the largest music festival in the Latin world and the largest in the world, with 1.5 million people attending the first event, 700,000 attending the second and fourth, about 1.2 million attending the third, and about 350,000 people attending each of the 3 Lisbon events. It was originally organized in Rio de Janeiro, from where the name comes from, has become a world level event and, in 2004, had its first edition abroad in Lisbon, Portugal, before Madrid, Spain and Las Vegas, United States. The festival is considered the eighth best in the world by the specialized site Fling Festival.\n\nCarnaval, is an annual celebration in the Roman Catholic tradition that allows merry-making and red meat consumption before the more sober 40 days of Lent penance which culminates with Holy or Passion Week and Easter. The tradition of Carnaval parades was probably influenced by the French or German courts and the custom was brought by the Portuguese or Brazilian Imperial families who had Bourbon and Austrian ancestors. Up until the time of the marchinhas, the revelry was more of a high class and Caucasian-led event. The influence of the African-Brazilian drums and music became more noticeable from the first half of the 20th century. Rio de Janeiro has many Carnaval choices, including the famous samba school (\"Escolas de Samba)\" parades in the sambadrome exhibition center and the popular \"blocos de carnaval\", street revelry, which parade in almost every corner of the city. The most famous ones are:\n\nIn 1840, the first Carnaval was celebrated with a masked ball. As years passed, adorned floats and costumed revelers became a tradition among the celebrants. Carnaval is known as a historic root of Brazilian music.\n\nAs in the rest of Brazil, football is the most popular sport. The city's major teams are Flamengo, Vasco da Gama, Fluminense and Botafogo. Madureira, Bangu, Portuguesa, America and Bonsucesso are small clubs. Famous players born in the city include Ronaldo and Romário.\n\nRio de Janeiro was one of the host cities of the 1950 and 2014 FIFA World Cups, for which on both occasions Brazil was the host nation. In 1950, the Maracanã Stadium hosted 8 matches, including all but one of the host team's matches. The Maracanã was also the location of the infamous tournament-deciding match between Uruguay and Brazil, where Brazil only needed a draw to win the final group stage and the whole tournament. Brazil ended up losing 2–1 in front of a home crowd of more than 199,000. In 2014, the Maracanã hosted seven matches, including the final, where Germany beat Argentina 1–0.\n\nOn 2 October 2009, the International Olympic Committee selected Rio de Janeiro to host the 2016 Summer Olympics. Rio made their first bid for the 1936 Summer Olympics, but lost to Berlin. They later made bids for the 2004 and 2012 Games, but failed to become a candidate city both times. Those games were awarded to Athens and London respectively.\n\nRio is the first Brazilian and South American city to host the Summer Olympics. Rio de Janeiro also became the first city in the southern hemisphere outside of Australia to host the games – Melbourne in 1956 and Sydney in 2000. In July 2007, Rio successfully organized and hosted the XV Pan American Games.\n\nRio de Janeiro also hosted the 2011 Military World Games from 15–24 July 2011. The 2011 Military World Games were the largest military sports event ever held in Brazil, with approximately 4,900 athletes from 108 countries competing in 20 sports.\n\nRio de Janeiro hosted the 2016 Olympics and Paralympics. The Olympic Games were held from 5 to 21 August 2016. The Paralympics were held from 7 to 18 September 2016.\n\nThe city has a history as host of major international sports events. The Ginásio do Maracanãzinho was the host arena for the official FIBA Basketball World Championship for its 1954 and 1963 editions. Later, the Jacarepaguá circuit in Rio de Janeiro was the site for the Formula One Brazilian Grand Prix from 1978 to 1989. Rio de Janeiro also hosted the MotoGP Brazilian Grand Prix from 1995 to 2004 and the Champ Car event from 1996 to 1999. WCT/WQS surfing championships were contested on the beaches from 1985 to 2001. The Rio Champions Cup Tennis tournament is held in the spring. As part of its preparations to host the 2007 Pan American Games, Rio built a new stadium, Estádio Olímpico João Havelange, to hold 45,000 people. It was named after Brazilian ex-FIFA president João Havelange. The stadium is owned by the city of Rio de Janeiro, but it was rented to Botafogo de Futebol e Regatas for 20 years. Rio de Janeiro has also a multi-purpose arena, the HSBC Arena.\nThe Brazilian Dance/Sport/Martial art Capoeira is very popular. Other popular sports are basketball, beach football, beach volleyball, Beach American Football, footvolley, surfing, kite surfing, hang gliding, motor racing, Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, sailing, and competitive rowing. Another sport that is highly popular in beaches of Rio is called \"Frescobol\" (), a type of beach tennis. Rio de Janeiro is also paradise for rock climbers, with hundreds of routes all over the city, ranging from easy boulders to highly technical big wall climbs, all inside the city. The most famous, Rio's granite mountain, the Sugar Loaf (\"Pão de Açúcar\"), is an example, with routes from the easy third grade (American 5.4, French 3) to the extremely difficult ninth grade (5.13/8b), up to .\n\nHorse racing events are held Thursday nights and weekend afternoons at Hipódromo da Gávea. An impressive place with excellent grass and dirt tracks, it runs the best horses in the nation. Hang gliding in Rio de Janeiro started in the mid-1970s and quickly proved to be well-suited for this town, because of its geography: steep mountains encounter the Atlantic Ocean, which provide excellent take-off locations and great landing zones on the beach.\n\nOne of the most popular sea sports in the city is yachting. The main yacht clubs are in Botafogo area that extends halfway between Copacabana and the center of town. Though the most exclusive and interesting is probably the Rio Yacht club, where high society makes it a point to congregate. Most yacht clubs are open to members only and gate crashing is not easy. Copacabana is also a great place to do surfing as well as \"Arpoador of Ipanema\" beach and \"Praia dos Bandeirantes\". The sea at these beaches is rough and dangerous, the best surfers from Brazil and other sites of the world come to these beaches to prove themselves.\n\nThe city of Rio de Janeiro is served by the following airports for use:\n\n\nMilitary airports include:\n\nThe Port of Rio de Janeiro is Brazil's third busiest port in terms of cargo volume, and it is the center for cruise vessels. Located on the west coast of the Guanabara Bay, it serves the States of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Espírito Santo. The port is managed by Companhia Docas de Rio de Janeiro. The Port of Rio de Janeiro covers territory from the Mauá Pier in the east to the Wharf of the Cashew in the north. The Port of Rio de Janeiro contains almost of continuous wharf and an pier. The Companhia Docas de Rio de Janeiro administers directly the Wharf of the Gamboa general cargo terminal; the wheat terminal with two warehouses capable of moving 300 tons of grains; General Load Terminal 2 with warehouses covering over ; and the Wharves of Are Cristovao with terminals for wheat and liquid bulk.\n\nAt the Wharf of Gamboa, leaseholders operate terminals for sugar, paper, iron and steel products. Leaseholders at the Wharf of the Cashew operate terminals for roll-on/roll-off cargoes, containers, and liquid bulk. In 2004, the Port of Rio de Janeiro handled over seven million tons of cargo on almost 1700 vessels. In 2004, the Port of Rio de Janeiro handled over two million tons of containerized cargo in almost 171 thousand TEUs. The port handled 852 thousand tons of wheat, more than 1.8 million tons of iron and steel, over a million tons of liquid bulk cargo, almost 830 thousand tons of dry bulk, over five thousand tons of paper goods, and over 78 thousand vehicles. In 2003, over 91 thousand passengers moved through the Port of Rio Janeiro on 83 cruise vessels.\n\nIn Rio de Janeiro, buses are the main form of public transportation. There are nearly 440 municipal bus lines serving over four million passengers every day, in addition to intercity lines. Although cheap and frequent, Rio's transportation policy has been moving towards trains and subway in order to reduce surface congestion and increase carrier capacity. Rio's public transportation service has been a target of many critics and the motive of the 2013's protests and manifestations that started in São Paulo and spread through the entire country. According to the people, the raise in the bus and subway fares are invalid, seeing that the amount charged is too high for the low quality of the services.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Rio de Janeiro, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 95 min. 32% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 19 min, while 35% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 12.3 km, while 37% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nRio de Janeiro has three subway lines (\"Metrô Rio\") with and 41 stations plus several commuter rail lines. Future plans include building a fourth subway line to Niterói and São Gonçalo, including an underwater tunnel beneath Guanabara Bay to supplement the ferry service currently there. The Metro is Rio's safest and cleanest form of public transport.\nThe three lines serve the city seven days a week. The first line runs from General Osório in Ipanema to Uruguai Station in Tijuca. The second line runs from Botafogo, sharing ten stations with the first line, terminating at Pavuna in northern Rio. The third connects General Osório to Jardim Oceânico Station, in the Barra da Tijuca neighborhood, where the 2016 Olympic Games were held. The Metro runs services from 05:00 am to 12:00 midnight, Monday to Saturday, and from 07:00 am to 11:00 pm Sundays and public holidays. People can buy tickets for the Metro at train stations and can either buy single tickets or rechargeable cards. People can also buy tickets for the Metro at buses that make connect places far from the Metro. Integration with buses are possible in several forms, an integrated Metro and bus ticket for a single journey is available for some lines paying an additional fee and is known as an Integração Expressa (Express Integration) and Expresso Barra, the other possibility is taking the Metro na Superfície (Surface Metro) with no additional fee.\n\nSuperVia connects the city of Rio with other locations in Greater Rio de Janeiro with surface trains. It has 8 lines and , with 102 stations.\n\nIn order to improve traffic in the central zone, the prefecture started the project \"Porto Maravilha\" (Marvelous Port), which foresees a modern tramway system. Its lines will connect the central business district to Santos Dumont Airport, the ferry station at XV Square, the Novo Rio terminal bus station at Santo Cristo, and the future high-speed rail Leopoldina station between Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo.\n\nIn 2016, for the Olympic Games, the light rail system was inaugurated, with 28 km, 42 stations, distributed in 3 lines. The trams are the first in the world to use a combination of ground-level power supply (APS) and on-board supercapacitor energy storage (SRS), in order to eliminate overhead lines along the entire route.\n\nCity buses cost about R$3.80 to ride. They come in both non-air conditioned (R$3.80) and air conditioned versions (R$3–R$5.40). The system may be relatively safe by day but less so at night. Integration of bus lines has been recently implemented, allowing users to take two non-air conditioned bus rides in two hours paying just one ticket. It is necessary to have a registered electronic card (the \"\"Bilhete Único Carioca (BUC)\") in order to benefit of this system.\n\nAnother type of local bus is called the \"Frescão\"\" (air-conditioned). These buses run several routes, the main being from Centro through Botafogo, Copacabana and Ipanema to Leblon (and vice versa), and from the International Airport to Barra, through the beach road. They are air conditioned – about – more upscale/comfortable and cost between R$6.00–R$12.00. However, it is only available during weekdays. The buses also run more frequently during the rush hours in the morning and evening. Going in the direction of Centro (city center), the bus can be flagged down on the beach road (buses with plaques showing \"Castelo\").\n\nThe most geographically close sister city to Rio that is on the other side of Guanabara Bay is Niterói. Many people who live in Niterói, as well its neighbouring municipalities São Gonçalo and Maricá, commute to Rio de Janeiro to study and work. There are several ferry services that operate between the Rio Centro (Praça XV) and Niterói (Centro and Charitas). There is a traditional boat as well as several \"fast cat\" hydrofoil boats.\nOne of the city neighborhoods is Paquetá Island, which can only be accessed by ferryboats or hydrofoil boats. The ferryboat to Paquetá leaves every hour, from early in the morning until around midnight. There is also a ferry to Cocotá.\n\nRio de Janeiro has the oldest operating electric tramway in Brazil and South America, now mainly used by tourists and less by daily commuters. Santa Teresa Tram or bondinho, has been preserved both as a piece of history and as a quick, fun, cheap way of getting to one of the most quirky parts of the city. \nThe tram station is near Cinelândia and the Municipal Theatre. Trams leave every half an hour between 6:00 am and 11:00 pm. A ticket is just 0.60 (US$0.35), one way or return, and people pay as they pass through the barrier to the right of the entrance. The Santa Teresa Tram (known locally as the \"bonde\") in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro commenced electric operation in 1891, replacing horse-drawn trams and expanding the horse-drawn route. At this time the gauge was altered to , which remains the case today. The tram cars which are currently in operation are Brazilian-built, are of the cross-bench open sided design, and are fitted with trolley poles.\n\nAfter a derail occurred on 28 August 2011, which left seven dead, tram service was suspended to improve the system, and would be reopened in 2014, just before the 2014 FIFA World Cup but after postponements it was finally reopened in July 2015. While it is being improved, two lines costing 0.60 carry passengers from Santa Teresa to Centro: SE014 and SE006.\n\nDriving in Rio de Janeiro, as in most large cities of Brazil, might not be the best choice because of the large car fleet. The city is served by a number of expressways, like Linha Vermelha, Linha Amarela, Avenida Brasil, Avenida das Américas and Avenida Infante Dom Henrique (Aterro do Flamengo); in spite of this, traffic jams are very common. Because of the organization of the 2016 Olympics the city is installing four BRT systems to link Barra da Tijuca with other major neighbourhoods: TransOlimpica (between Barra and Deodoro); TransBrasil (over the Avenida Brasil expressway); TransCarioca (between Barra and the Galeão International Airport); and TransOeste (between Barra and Santa Cruz, over Avenida das Américas).\n\nIn Brazil, most interstate transportation is done by road. A large terminal for long-distance buses is in the Santo Cristo neighborhood of Rio de Janeiro. There are also two port facilities for cargo and passenger ships (Rio de Janeiro and Sepetiba port). Rio has roads to all neighbour States. Some roads (like Via Dutra, to São Paulo, and a stretch of the BR-101 which covers the Rio-Niterói bridge) were chartered to private enterprises. The quality of the highways improved much, but was accompanied by a significant increase of the toll fees. From São Paulo: take the BR-116 (Presidente Dutra Federal Highway) or the BR-101 (Rio-Santos Federal Highway). From Belo Horizonte: BR-040. From Salvador: BR-101 or BR-324/BR-116/BR-393/BR-040.\n\nThe city has of cycle paths that, wherever they exist, are very much preferable to riding in the city's traffic. Most paths run alongside beaches and extend intermittently from the Marina da Glória, Centro, through Flamengo, Copacabana and Ipanema, to Barra da Tijuca and Recreio dos Bandeirantes. of cycle paths traverse the Tijuca National Park.\n\nThe Bike Rio began operations in October 2011. This bicycle sharing system is sponsored by the municipal government of Rio de Janeiro in partnership with Banco Itaú. The bike sharing system has 600 bicycles available at 60 rental stations in 14 neighborhoods throughout the city.\n\nThe dialing code for the city of Rio de Janeiro (RJ) is 21.\n\nRio de Janeiro is twinned with:\n\nRio de Janeiro is part of the Union of Ibero-American Capital Cities from 12 October 1982 establishing brotherly relations with the following cities:\nRio de Janeiro has the following partner/friendship cities:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1078741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078741", "title": "Robert Henry", "text": "Robert Henry\n\nVery Rev Robert Henry FRSE FSA(Scot) (18 February 1718 – 24 November 1790) was a Scottish minister and historian.\n\nHe was born on 18 February 1718, the son of Jean Galloway and James Henry, a farmer at Muirton Farm near St. Ninians, Stirlingshire.\n\nHenry was educated at St Ninian's Parish School then Stirling High School. He then studied at the University of Edinburgh. After teaching at Annan, he entered the Church of Scotland, being licensed in 1746 and first preaching in Annan. In 1748, as a dissenter, he moved to Carlisle, and in 1760 to Berwick-upon-Tweed.\n\nHe then was translated to be minister at New Greyfriars in Edinburgh in 1768. The University of Edinburgh granted him a doctorate (DD) in 1771. At this time he lived at Bristo Street, just south of Greyfriars Church.\n\nHe was Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1774.\n\nIn 1776 he moved from New Greyfriars to Old Greyfriars (the other half of the same building) and remained in this role until death.\n\nIn 1783 he was one of the co-founders of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nHe died on 24 November 1790 at his home in Merchant Street in Edinburgh (just east of Greyfriars) but is buried with his family in Polmont churchyard.\n\nHe was married to Anne Balderston.\n\nHe wrote the 6-volume \"History of Great Britain on a New Plan\" (1771), covering the period from the first Roman invasion until the reign of King Henry VIII. The novelty consisted in dividing the subjects into different heads, civil history, military, social, and so on, and following out each of them separately. The work was mainly a compilation, having no critical qualities. Despite the persistent and ferocious attacks of Dr Gilbert Stewart, it was successful, and brought the author over £3000. It attracted the support of the Earl of Mansfield, whose persuasion gained for Henry a government pension of £100.\n\n"}
{"id": "30937001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30937001", "title": "Schoenau ultimatum", "text": "Schoenau ultimatum\n\nThe Schoenau ultimatum was a hostage-taking incident in Marchegg, Austria by the Palestinian militant group As-Sa'iqa. At the time Vienna was a transit point for Russian Jews, the largest population of Jews remaining in Europe. The Schoenau ultimatum focused attention away from Egyptian and Syrian military build-up and their planned attack that would come to be known as the Yom Kippur War.\n\nThe Israeli government had long encouraged European Jewish refugees to immigrate to Israel. After many of the Jews displaced by the Holocaust had emigrated to Israel, the Russian Jewish population, the last source of Ashkenazi Jews, who were facing increasing oppression within the Soviet Union, became an important population encouraged to emigrate to Israel. In the wake of the Six-Day War in 1967, the Soviet Union broke off diplomatic relations with Israel. This stirred up Zionist feelings among some Soviet Jews, the majority of whom were assimilated and non-religious.\n\nA mass emigration was politically undesirable for the Soviet regime. As increasing numbers of Soviet Jews applied to emigrate to Israel in the period following the Six-Day War, many were formally refused permission to leave. After the Dymshits–Kuznetsov hijacking affair in 1970 and the crackdown that followed, strong international condemnations caused the Soviet authorities to increase the emigration quota. From 1960 to 1970, only 4,000 people left the Soviet Union; in the following decade, the number rose to 250,000.\n\nMany of these Jews passed through the transit center located at the Schönau Castle in Austria. The Castle was used by the Austrian government as a transit camp for Russian Jews who had just been permitted to leave Russia prior to emigrating to the West.\n\nOn September 28, 1973, 3 to 7 Jewish emigrants were taken hostage, among them a 73-year-old man, an ailing woman and a three-year-old child, on a train at the Austria-Czechoslovakian border by a Syrian-based Palestinian Arab militant group, As-Sa'iqa. In addition to demanding a free passage to an Arab country, they gave the Austrian government an ultimatum to close the Schönau transit center or they would execute the hostages. Austrian Chancellor Bruno Kreisky gave in to the demands and closed the Jewish Agency's transit facility.\n\nThe incident captured the attention of Israeli media and became a \"cause célèbre\". Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir diverted her return flight from the Council of Europe to try and convince Kreisky to not give in to the demands. Kreisky refused to change his position, and Meir returned to Israel infuriated. With the center closed, the militants were flown to Libya.\n\nThe entire incident captured the attention of the Israeli government when it should have been focusing on Egyptian and Syrian military build-up. The Schoenau ultimatum is seen as one of the causes of the massive military intelligence blunder of the Israeli Intelligence in not foreseeing the surprise attack of the Yom Kippur War.\n\nIn December 1973, the Schönau Castle Jewish center was closed for good and was replaced by the Wöllersdorf National Association of the Red Cross of Lower Austria for refugees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41566166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41566166", "title": "Shell grotto", "text": "Shell grotto\n\nA shell grotto is a type of folly, a grotto decorated with sea shells.\n\nThe shell grotto was a popular feature of British country house in the 17th and 18th centuries.\nIt arose from the influence of the Rococo style (which used swirling motifs similar to sea shells)\nand mimicry of architectural features from the Italian renaissance (themselves copies from Classical times).\nThe idea of a grotto was originally a means to enhance a dank undercroft, or provide an antechamber before a \"piano nobile\", but later became a garden feature independent of the house.\nEarly grottos were mainly of the shell grotto type, mimicking a sea-cave, or in the form of a nymphaeum; later there was a move towards more naturalistic cave-like grottoes. \n\nThe first recorded shell grotto in England was at Whitehall Palace; James I had it built in the undercroft of the Banqueting House in 1624, but it hasn't survived. Two years later the Duke of Bedford had a shell room built at Woburn Abbey, featuring shell mosaics and carved stone.\nThis, and another at Skipton Castle, built in 1627, are the only surviving examples from the 17th century. \n\nShell grottoes were an expensive luxury: The grotto at Oatlands Park cost £25,000 in 1781 and took 11 years to build; and at Fisherwick Park the Marquess of Donegall spent £10,000 on shells alone in 1789. The Grotto at Margate has 2000 square feet of mosaic, using some 4.6 million shells.\n\nBy the end of the 18th century fashion had moved on to more naturalistic cave-like structures, before falling out of favour altogether. Many were demolished or have fallen into disrepair, but \nsome 200 grottos of all types are known to have survived in some form in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39716747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39716747", "title": "Thomas Martin Lindsay", "text": "Thomas Martin Lindsay\n\nThomas Martin Lindsay DD FRSE (1843–1914) was a Scottish historian, professor and principal of the Free Church College, Glasgow. He was a prolific writer of church history and in authorship he is often referred to as Thomas M. Lindsay.\n\nHe wrote chiefly on church history, his major works including \"Luther and the German Reformation\" (1900), and \"A History of the Reformation in Europe\" (1906–1907).\n\nHe was born on 18 October 1843 in Lesmahagow in Lanarkshire, the eldest son of Rev. Alexander Lindsay, and his wife, Susan Irvine Martin. He was educated in Lesmahagow.\n\nLindsay studied divinity at the University of Glasgow and then at the University of Edinburgh. In 1869 he entered the ministry of the Free Church of Scotland, and in 1872 was appointed Professor of Church History at the Free Church College, Glasgow. He was then living at \"Thornliebank\" on Ann Street in the Hillhead district when he married Anna Dunlop. Anna Lindsay had just been a student in Edinburgh.\n\nLindsay took up the position of Principal of the College in 1902. He then moved to the more affluent address of 37 Westbourne Gardens in Kelvinside, an attractive three-storey and basement Victorian terraced house.\n\nLindsay unsuccessfully supported William Robertson Smith in a trial for heresy between 1877 and 1881 which resulted in Smith's losing his position at the Aberdeen Free Church College.\nHe died in Glasgow on 6 December 1912.\n\n\nHe was a contributor to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" and to the Cambridge Modern History.\n\nLindsay married Anna Dunlop. The Glasgow Association for the Higher Education of Women was started at the suggestion of Mrs Jean Campbell in 1868. Anna Lindsay was one of its founders. Lindsay's name was said to be synonymous with the women's movement in Scotland. Their children included Alexander Lindsay, 1st Baron Lindsay of Birker, Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of Glasgow, Master of Balliol College, and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4829872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4829872", "title": "Varduli", "text": "Varduli\n\nThe Varduli were a pre-Roman tribe settled in the north of the Iberian Peninsula, in what today is the eastern region of the autonomous community of the Basque Country and western Navarre, in northern Spain. Their historical territory corresponds with current Basque-speaking areas, however it is debated whether the Varduli were actually Aquitanians, related to the Vascones, or if they were Celts, related to tribes such as the Cantabri and Celtiberians and which later underwent Basquisation.\n\nTheir ethnonym \"Varduli\" is connected with an area that is referred to in documents from the early Middle Ages as Bardulia, which is identified as the cradle of Old Castile. Julio Caro Baroja, a Spanish anthropologist and linguist declared on his works that the term \"Varduli\" does not have a Basque origin.\n\nThe Varduli are mentioned for the first time during Roman times, by Strabo, who called them \"Bardyetai\", and placed them in the Basque coast, between the Cantabri and Vascones; they are also mentioned by the geographer Ptolemy, who placed them roughly in present-day Gipuzkoa, and by Roman historians, notably Pliny the Elder in his \"Naturalis Historia\", where he reported that \"Amanum Portus\" (Roman name: \"Flaviobriga\"), present-day Castro Urdiales, was a Varduli city. The Roman geographer Pomponius Mela located them also in the coast, west of the Vascones and east of the Caristii. This lack of agreement about their exact position may have been caused by the continuous movement of the tribes of the northern Iberian Peninsula during events such as the Cantabrian Wars. The first census of the Varduli population took place under the orders of Augustus.\n\nAccording to Pliny the Elder, the main Varduli city was \"Olarso\", which is believed to be present-day Uharte-Arakil (Navarre). In 114 BC, Gaius Marius had a personal guard made by Varduli people, who were called Barduaioí slaves in Rome. By the year 44, and according to Pomponius Mela, the Varduli inhabited lands close to the Pyrenees and composed a united society. The defeat of the Cantabri against Augustus did not have any effect on the Varduli, as they had not joined the wars. \n\nThe Varduli served in cohorts in the province of Britannia: Varduli are mentioned in an inscription on a Roman altar at Rochester, (Roman Bremenium) and at Milecastle 19 along Hadrian's Wall an altar inscription made by members of the First Cohort of Varduli, cavalrymen, is one of the few dedications to the \"Matres\", or mother goddesses, found in Roman Britain. The First Cohort of Varduli are also mentioned in inscriptions at the Antonine Wall, Longovicium in Durham, Bremenium and Corstopitum in Northumberland and on the Dere Street in Cappuck in the Scottish Borders. \n\nAs with the Caristii, it is discussed whether the Varduli were an Aquitanian tribe or a Celt one, related to the Cantabri and Celtiberians. Their place-names were clearly of Indo-European origin (probably Proto-Celtic language), as \"Uxama\" (comes from \"Ups Ama\", meaning \"the highest\"), \"Deobriga\" (comes from \"Deiuo-Briga\", meaning \"holy hill\"), \"Tullonium\" (comes from \"Tullo\", meaning \"valley\"), among others. As with the Caristii, not a single toponym related to the Aquitanian-Basque languages has been found, further proving the theory of their Celtic origin and possible late Basquisation. However, but for a few exceptions (\"Deba\", \"Zegama\", \"Arakama\") present-day place-names show a clear prevalence of the Basque linguistic element (sometimes mixed with Latin and Romance lexical roots).\n\nThe last reference to the Varduli appears on a chronicle from Hydatius, where he narrates the devastations that suffered the Heruli when they attacked in the year 400 the Cantabrian coast and again in 456 after attacking Bardulia.\n\nIt is believed by some that the Varduli suffered a Basquisation as a result of the continuous progress of the Vascones on their territory. They are not mentioned again in the Early Middle Ages and their place appeared the precursors of the province of Gipuzkoa. Some authors deducted, following Classic documents, the existence of some ethnic affinity, collaboration, or political union between the Caristii, the Autrigones and the Varduli, tribes who later would all be grouped under the name \"Varduli\", this would explain all the later events on this region, for example, why once the Caristii and Varduli were moved out of their original territories by the Vascones in the Early Middle Ages, the Caristii and Autrigones lost their names and were grouped together with the Varduli over the territory of the Autrigones who took refuge in their coastal areas behind the mountains from the Islamic military depredations from the Al-andalus new powers down the Ebro, which passed to be made after a century of resettlement into the Meseta plains as a frontier march or county of the Kingdom of Asturias in the middle years of the 8th century, the original one called Castile. The union, whichever the causes, between Varduli, Caristii and Autrigones on a unique territory would later create the blur County of Bardulia, mentioned as part of the Crown of Castile.\n\nThe coat of arms of the Basque province of Gipuzkoa reads \"Fidelissima Bardulia, Nunquam Superata\", meaning \"Loyal Bardulia, never conquered\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20198419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20198419", "title": "Witch-cult hypothesis", "text": "Witch-cult hypothesis\n\nThe witch-cult hypothesis is a discredited theory which proposes that the witch trials of the Early Modern period were an attempt to suppress a pre-Christian, pagan religion that had survived the Christianisation of Europe. According to its proponents, this witch-cult revolved around the worship of a Horned God of fertility whom the Christian persecutors referred to as the Devil, and whose members participated in nocturnal rites at the witches' Sabbath in which they venerated this deity.\n\nThe theory was pioneered by German scholars Karl Ernst Jarcke and Franz Josef Mone in the early nineteenth century, before being adopted by the French historian Jules Michelet, American feminist Matilda Joslyn Gage, and American folklorist Charles Leland later in that century. The hypothesis received its most prominent exposition when adopted by the British Egyptologist Margaret Murray, who presented her version of it in \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" (1921), before further expounding it in books like \"The God of the Witches\" (1931) and in her contribution to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". Although the \"Murrayite theory\" proved popular among sectors of academia and the general public in the early and mid twentieth century, it was never accepted by specialists in the Early Modern witch trials, who publicly discredited it through in-depth research conducted in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nSpecialists in Europe's Early Modern witchcraft beliefs view the pagan witch-cult theory as pseudohistorical; there is an academic consensus among experts that those accused and executed as witches during the period were not members of any witch religion, whether pre-Christian or Satanic in nature. Critics highlight that the theory rested on a highly selective use of the evidence from the trials, thereby heavily misrepresenting the events and the actions of both the accused and their accusers. Further, they point out that it relied on the erroneous assumption that the claims made by accused witches were truthful and not distorted by coercion and torture. They also note that despite claims that the witch-cult was a pre-Christian survival, there is no evidence of such a pagan witch-cult throughout the intervening Middle Ages.\n\nThe witch-cult hypothesis influenced literature, being adapted into fictional forms in the work of authors like John Buchan and Robert Graves. It greatly affected the origins of Wicca, a contemporary Pagan new religious movement that emerged in mid-twentieth century Britain, claiming to be the survival of the pagan witch-cult. Since the 1960s, scholars like Carlo Ginzburg have argued that surviving elements of pre-Christian religion in European folk culture influenced the Early Modern stereotypes of witchcraft, with scholars debating how this relates to the Murrayite witch-cult hypothesis.\n\nThe witch-hunt of the 16th and 17th centuries was an organized effort by authorities in many countries to destroy a supposed conspiracy of witches thought to pose a deadly threat to Christendom. According to these authorities, witches were numerous, and in conscious alliance with Satan, forming a sort of Satanic counter-religion. Witch-hunts in this sense must be separated from the belief in witches, the evil eye, and other such phenomena, which are common features of folk belief worldwide. The belief that witches are not just individual villains but conspirators organized in a powerful but well-hidden cult is a distinguishing feature of the early modern witch-hunt.\n\nThis idea of an organized witch-cult originates in the second half of the 15th century, notoriously expounded in the 1486 \"Malleus Maleficarum\". In the following two centuries, witch trials usually included the charge of membership in a demonic conspiracy, gathering in sabbaths, and similar. It was only with the beginning Age of Enlightenment in the early 18th century, that the idea of an organized witch-cult was abandoned.\n\nEarly Modern testimonies of accused witches \"confirming\" the existence of a witch cult are considered doubtful. Norman Cohn has argued that such testimonies were often given under torture, and that their details were determined mainly by the expectations of the interrogators and by free association on the part of the accused, reflecting only the popular imagination of the times. Carlo Ginzburg and Éva Pócs hold that some of these testimonies can still give insights into the belief systems of the accused. Ginzburg discovered records of a group calling themselves \"benandanti\", the \"good walkers\" who believed that they combatted witches (\"streghe\") by magical means. The benandanti were persecuted for heresy in the period of 1575 to 1675.\n\nThroughout the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the common belief among educated sectors of the European populace was that there had never been any genuine cult of witches and that all those persecuted and executed as such had been innocent of the crime. At this time, two figures independently raised the prospect that the witch trials had been influenced by stereotypes and folk customs that had pre-Christian origins. In his 1749 work \"Del Congresso Notturno delle Lamie\" (\"On the Nocturnal Meeting of Witches\"), the Italian cleric Girolamo Tartarotti claimed that the stereotype of the witch in Early Modern Europe was influenced by pre-Christian folk beliefs. Similar ideas were echoed by the German folklorist Jacob Grimm in his \"Deutsche Mythologie\" (\"Teutonic Mythology\"), first published in 1835. Here, he claimed that the witch stereotype reflected a blending of pre-Christian folk traditions with the later Medieval views of heresy. Both Tartarotti and Grimm would subsequently be erroneously cited as claiming that the witches had been members of a surviving pre-Christian cult.\n\nThe first modern scholar to advance the claim that the witch trials had been designed to wipe out an anti-Christian sect was the German Karl Ernst Jarcke, a professor of criminal law at the University of Berlin. In 1828 he edited the records of a seventeenth-century German witch trial for publication in a legal journal, and included the theory in his own comments. Jarcke suggested that witchcraft had been a pre-Christian religion that survived Christianisation among the rural population, but that after being condemned as Satanism by the Church, it eventually degenerated into genuine Devil-worship and malevolence. At that point, the wider population came to reject it, resulting in the trials. This theory exonerated the Christian Church of blame by asserting that they had been acting on the wishes of the population, while at the same time not accepting the literal intervention of the Devil in human affairs which liberal rationalists disbelieved. In 1832, Felix Mendelssohn adopted similar ideas when composing his orchestral piece, \"Die Erste Walpurgisnacht\", in which a group of pagan villagers pretend to be witches in order to scare away Christians intent on disrupting their Walpurgis Night festivities.\n\nJarcke's theories were adopted and altered by the German historian Franz Josef Mone in 1839. While serving as director of archives at Baden, he published his ideas in a paper in which he asserted that the pre-Christian religion which degenerated into Satanic witchcraft was not Germanic in origin, but had instead been practised by slaves who had come in contact with the Greek cults of Hecate and Dionysus on the north coast of the Black Sea. According to Mone, these slaves adopted these cults and fused them with their own pagan faiths to form witchcraft, a religion that venerated a goat-like god, celebrated nocturnal orgies and practised poisoning and malevolent magic. This horrified the free-born population both in the pagan period and the Christian era, eventually resulting in the witch trials. However, as English historian Norman Cohn asserted in 1975, \"neither of [Jarcke or Mone's] theories are convincing\", with neither being able to show any evidence of pre-Christian gods being worshipped in Early Modern Germany or being able to explain why there was no accounts of this witch-cult in between the Christianization and the trials themselves. Both Jarcke and Mone were politically conservative, and their depiction of the threatening witch-cult would have had parallels with the widespread conservative fear of secret societies as bringers of revolution and irreligion in early nineteenth-century Europe.\n\nIn 1862, French historian Jules Michelet published \"La Sorcière\" (\"The Witch\"), in which he adapted the theory further. Michelet, who was a liberal and who despised both the Roman Catholic Church and absolute monarchies, claimed that the Witch Cult had been practiced by the peasants in opposition to Roman Catholicism, which was practiced by the upper classes. He claimed that the witches had been mostly women (he greatly admired the feminine gender, once claiming that it was the superior of the two), and that they had been great healers, whose knowledge was the basis of much of modern medicine. He believed that they worshiped the god Pan, who had become equated with the Christian figure of the Devil over time. When Michelet's \"La Sorcière\" was first published in France, it was, according to historian Ronald Hutton, \"greeted with silence from French literary critics, apparently because they recognized that it was not really history\".\n\nIn 1893, an American suffragist, Matilda Joslyn Gage, published \"Woman, Church and State\", in which she claimed that in the prehistoric world, humanity had been matriarchal, worshiping a great Goddess, and that the witches of the witch cult had been pagan priestesses preserving this religion.\n\nIn 1897, the English scholar Karl Pearson, who was the professor of Applied Mathematics at University College London and an amateur historian and anthropologist, expanded on Michelet's theory. Pearson agreed with the theory of a prehistoric matriarchal society, and concurred with Gage that the witch-cult was a survival of it. Pearson theorized that during the Christian era, the religion began to emphasise the male deity, which was then equated with the Christian Devil. Pearson also made the claim that Joan of Arc had been one of the last few priestesses of the religion. He was, however, unlike Michelet or Gage, opposed to the group and to Goddess worship in general, believing that it was primitive and savage.\n\nCharles Leland was an American folklorist and occultist who travelled around Europe in the latter 19th century and was a supporter of Michelet's theories. In 1899 he published \"Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches\", which he claimed had been a sacred text for Italian witches. It made no mention of a horned god, but did mention a male deity known as Lucifer, as well as a female deity, the goddess Diana. Leland's work would provide much of the inspiration for the neopagan witchcraft religion of Stregheria.\n\nIn 1915, Margaret Murray was an Egyptologist who worked under Sir Flinders Petrie at University College London. However, the outbreak of World War I had meant that many of their staff and students had abandoned scholarship to aid the British war effort, while archaeological excavation to Egypt had been rendered impossible. These events gave Murray more latitude in her studies, and she began to branch out and explore other interests. To aid Britain's war effort, Murray enrolled as a volunteer nurse in the Volunteer Aid Detachment of the College Women's Union Society, and for several weeks was posted to Saint-Malo in France. However, after being taken ill herself, she was sent to recuperate in Glastonbury, Somerset, where she became interested in Glastonbury Abbey and the folklore surrounding it which connected it to the legendary figure of King Arthur and to the idea that the Holy Grail had been brought there by Joseph of Aramathea. Pursuing this interest, she published the paper \"Egyptian Elements in the Grail Romance\" in the journal \"Ancient Egypt\", although few agreed with her conclusions and it was criticised by scholars like Jessie Weston for making unsubstantiated leaps with the evidence.\n\nReturning to London, she began to work on the concept of witchcraft. Her first published work on the subject was an article in the academic journal \"Folklore\" in 1917, which she followed with a second in 1920. Further articles on the subject appeared in the journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute and the \"Scottish Historical Review\".\n\nIn \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\", Murray stated that she had restricted her research to Great Britain, although made some recourse to sources from France, Flanders, and New England. She drew a division between what she termed \"Operative Witchcraft\", which referred to the performance of charms and spells with any purpose, and \"Ritual Witchcraft\", by which she meant \"the ancient religion of Western Europe\", a fertility-based faith that she also termed \"the Dianic cult\". She claimed that the cult had \"very probably\" once been devoted to the worship of both a male deity and a \"Mother Goddess\" but that \"at the time when the cult is recorded the worship of the male deity appears to have superseded that of the female\". In her thesis, Murray claimed that the figure referred to as the Devil in the trial accounts was the witches' god, \"manifest and incarnate\", to whom the witches' offered their prayers. She claimed that at the witches' meetings, the god would be personified, usually by a man or at times by a woman or an animal; when a human personified this entity, Murray claimed that they were usually dressed plainly, though they appeared in full costume for the witches' Sabbaths.\n\nMembers joined the cult either as children or adults through what Murray called \"admission ceremonies\"; Murray asserted that applicants had to agree to join of their own free will, and agree to devote themselves to the service of their deity. She also claimed that in some cases, these individuals had to sign a covenant or were baptized into the faith. At the same time, she claimed that the religion was largely passed down hereditary lines. Murray described the religion as being divided into covens containing thirteen members, led by a coven officer who was often termed the \"Devil\" in the trial accounts, but who was accountable to a \"Grand Master\". According to Murray, the records of the coven were kept in a secret book, with the coven also disciplining its members, to the extent of executing those deemed traitors.\n\nDescribing this witch-cult as \"a joyous religion\", she claimed that the two primary festivals that it celebrated were on May Eve and November Eve, although that other dates of religious observation were 1 February and 1 August, the winter and summer solstices, and Easter. She asserted that the \"General Meeting of all members of the religion\" were known as Sabbaths, while the more private ritual meetings were known as Esbats. Murray claimed that these Esbats were nocturnal rites that began at midnight, and that they were \"primarily for business, whereas the Sabbath was purely religious.\" At the former, magical rites were performed both for malevolent and benevolent ends. She also asserted that the Sabbath ceremonies involved the witches' paying homage to the deity, renewing their \"vows of fidelity and obedience\" to him, and providing him with accounts of all the magical actions that they had conducted since the previous Sabbath. Once this business had been concluded, admissions to the cult or marriages were conducted; ceremonies and fertility rites took place; and the Sabbath concluded with feasting and dancing.\nDeeming Ritual Witchcraft to be \"a fertility cult\", she asserted that many of its rites were designed to ensure fertility and rain-making. She claimed that there were four types of sacrifice performed by the witches: blood-sacrifice, in which the neophyte writes their name in blood, the sacrifice of animals, the sacrifice of a non-Christian child to procure magical powers, and the sacrifice of the witches' god by fire to ensure fertility.\nShe interpreted accounts of witches' shapeshifting into various animals as being representative of a rite in which the witches dressed as specific animals which they took to be sacred. She asserted that accounts of familiars were based on the witches' use of animals, which she divided into \"divining familiars\" used in divination and \"domestic familiars\" used in other magic rites.\n\nMurray asserted that paganism had survived the Christianization process in Britain, although that it came to be \"practised only in certain places and among certain classes of the community.\" She believed that folkloric stories of fairies in Britain were based on a surviving race of dwarves, who continued to live in the island up until the Early Modern period. She asserted that this race followed the same pagan religion as the witches, thus explaining the folkloric connection between the two. In the appendices to the book, she also alleged that Joan of Arc and Gilles de Rais were members of the witch-cult and were executed for it, a claim which has been refuted by historians, especially in the case of Joan of Arc.\n\nLater historian Ronald Hutton commented that \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" \"rested upon a small amount of archival research, with extensive use of printed trial records in 19th century editions, plus early modern pamphlets and works of demonology\". He also noted that the book's tone was generally \"dry and clinical, and every assertion was meticulously footned to a source, with lavish quotation.\" It was not a best seller; in its first thirty years, only 2,020 copies were sold. However, it led many people to treat Murray as an authority on the subject; in 1929, she was invited to provide the entry on \"Witchcraft\" for the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", and used it to present her interpretation of the subject as if it were universally accepted in scholarship. It remained in the encyclopedia until being replaced in 1968.\n\nMurray followed this book with \"The God of the Witches\" in 1931; although similar in content, it was aimed at a mass market audience and published by the popular press Sampson Low. Whereas the tone in \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" had been \"dry and academic, the second bubbles with enthusiasm\", as her language becomes \"emotionally inflated and coloured with religious phraseology\"; in particular she refers repeatedly to the cult as \"the Old Religion\". In this work she \"cut out or toned down\" many of the claims of her previous book which would have painted the cult in a bad light, for instance regarding animal and child sacrifice, and also omitted any mention of sex.\n\nIn this book she began to refer to the witches' deity as the Horned God, and asserted that it was an entity who had been worshipped in Europe since the Palaeolithic. She further asserted that in the Bronze Age, the worship of the deity could be found throughout Europe, Asia, and parts of Africa, claiming that the depiction of various horned figures from these societies proved that. Among the evidence cited were the horned figures found at Mohenjo-Daro, which are often interpreted as depictions of Pashupati, as well as the deities Osiris and Amon in Egypt and the Minotaur of Minoan Crete. Within continental Europe, she claimed that the Horned God was represented by Pan in Greece, Cernunnos in Gaul, and in various Scandinavian rock carvings. Claiming that this divinity had been declared the Devil by the Christian authorities, she nevertheless asserted that his worship was testified in officially Christian societies right through to the Modern period, citing folkloric practices such as the Dorset Ooser and the Puck Fair as evidence of his veneration.\n\nIn 1954, she published \"The Divine King in England\", in which she greatly extended on the theory, taking in an influence from Sir James Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\", an anthropological book that made the claim that societies all over the world sacrificed their kings to the deities of nature. In her book, she claimed that this practice had continued into medieval England, and that, for instance, the death of William II was really a ritual sacrifice. She also claimed that a number of important figures who died violent deaths, such as Archbishop Thomas Becket, were killed as a replacement for the king. No academic took the book seriously, and it was ignored by many of her supporters. It did however influence a few historical novels e.g. Philip Lindsay's \"The Devil and King John\".\n\nUpon initial publication, Murray's thesis gained a favourable reception from many readers, including a number of significant scholars, albeit none of whom were experts in the witch trials. Historians of Early Modern Britain like Sir George Clark and Christopher Hill incorporated her theories into their work, although Hill later publicly regretted doing so. For the 1961 reprint of \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\", Medieval historian Steven Runciman provided a foreword in which he accepted that some of Murray's \"minor details may be open to criticism\", but in which he was otherwise supportive of her thesis. Her theories were recapitulated by Pennethorne Hughes in his 1952 book \"Witches\". It was also adopted and championed by the archaeologist T. C. Lethbridge, marking his increasing estrangement from mainstream academia; in turn, Murray publicly defended his controversial theories regarding the chalk hill figures of Wandlebury Hill in the Gog Magog Hills, Cambridgeshire. As a result, a commentator writing in 1962 could comment that the Murrayite interpretations of the witch trials \"seem to hold, at the time of writing, an almost undisputed sway at the higher intellectual levels\", being widely accepted among \"educated people\".\n\nCanadian historian Elliot Rose suggested that the reason why Murray's theory gained such support was partly because of her \"imposing credentials\" as a member of staff at UCL, a position that lent her theory greater legitimacy in the eyes of many readers. He further suggested that the Murrayite view was attractive to many as it confirmed \"the general picture of pre-Christian Europe a reader of Frazer of [Robert] Graves would be familiar with\". Similarly, Hutton suggested that the cause of the Murrayite theory's popularity was because it \"appealed to so many of the emotional impulses of the age\", including \"the notion of the English countryside as a timeless place full of ancient secrets\", the literary popularity of Pan, the widespread belief that the majority of British had remained pagan long after the process of Christianisation, and the idea that folk customs represented pagan survivals. At the same time, Hutton suggested, it seemed more plausible to many than the previously dominant rationalist idea that the witch trials were the result of mass delusion. Related to this, folklorist Jacqueline Simpson suggested that part of the Murrayite theory's appeal was that it appeared to give a \"sensible, demystifying, liberating approach to a longstanding but sterile argument\" between the rationalists who denied that there had been any witches and those, like Montague Summers, who insisted that there had been a real Satanic conspiracy against Christendom in the Early Modern period replete with witches with supernatural powers. As Hilda Ellis Davidson noted; \"how refreshing and exciting her first book was \"at that period\". A new approach, and such a surprising one.\"\n\nNevertheless, Murray's theories never received support from experts in the Early Modern witch trials, and from her early publications onward many of her ideas were challenged by those who highlighted her \"factual errors and methodological failings\". Indeed, the majority of scholarly reviews of her work produced at the time were largely critical. George L. Burr critically reviewed both of her initial books on the subject for the \"American Historical Review\". In his review of \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" he asserted that she was not acquainted with the \"careful general histories by modern scholars\" and criticised her for assuming that the trial accounts accurately reflected the accused witches' genuine experiences of witchcraft, regardless of whether those confessions had been obtained through torture and coercion. He also charged her with selectively using the evidence to serve her interpretation, for instance by omitting any supernatural or miraculous events that appear in the trial accounts. As Pagan studies scholar Catherine Noble later put it, \"Burr has hardly a kind word for Murray\".\n\nOne of the foremost specialists of the trial records, L'Estrange Ewen, brought out a series of books specialising in the archival material which rejected Murray's ideas. In 1938 Ewen launched a vociferous attack on Murray's scholarship, dismissing her theory as \"vapid balderdash\". Similarly, W.R. Halliday reviewed her work for the \"Folklore\" journal and exposed the flaws in her use of sources. E. M. Loeb criticised her in his review of \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" for \"American Anthropologist\". In Noble's words, \"There is no constructive criticism between peers here; it is a frontal attack on an author Loeb clearly believes has no place among published historians, at least on the topic of witchcraft.\"\n\nIn his 1962 work \"A Razor for a Goat\", Rose asserted that Murray's books on the witch-cult \"contain an incredible number of minor errors of fact or of calculation and several inconsistencies of reasoning.\" He accepted that her case \"could, perhaps, still be proved by somebody else, though I very much doubt it.\" Highlighting that there is a gap of about a thousand years between the Christianisation of Britain and the start of the witch trials there, he asserts that there is no evidence for the existence of the witch-cult anywhere in the intervening period. He further criticises her for treating pre-Christian Britain as a socially and culturally monolithic entity, whereas in reality it contained a diverse array of societies and religious beliefs. In addition to this, he challenged Murray's claim that the majority of Britons in the Middle Ages remained pagan as \"a view grounded on ignorance alone\".\n\nSimpson noted that despite these critical reviews, within the field of British folkloristics Murray's theories were permitted \"to pass unapproved but unchallenged, either out of politeness or because nobody was really interested enough to research the topic.\" As evidence, she noted that no substantial research articles on the subject of witchcraft were published in the journal \"Folklore\" between Murray's in 1917 and Rossell Hope Robbins' in 1963. However, she also highlighted that when regional studies of British folklore were published in this period by folklorists like Theo Brown, Ruth Tongue, or Enid Porter, none adopted the Murrayite framework for interpreting witchcraft beliefs, thus evidencing her claim that Murray's theories were widely ignored by scholars of folklore.\n\nMurray did not respond directly to the criticisms of her work, but did react to her critics in a hostile manner; in later life she asserted that she eventually ceased reading reviews of her work, and believed that her critics were simply acting on religious prejudice. Noble later stated that Murray \"repeatedly dismissed [her critics] in print as close-minded, bigoted, or uninformed.\"\n\nMurray's work came to be increasingly criticised following her death in 1963, with the definitive academic rejection of the Murrayite witch-cult theory occurring during the 1970s. At this time, a variety of scholars across Europe and North America – such as Alan Macfarlane, Erik Midelfort, William Monter, Robert Muchembled, Gerhard Schormann, Bente Alver and Bengt Ankarloo – began to publish in-depth studies of the archival records from the witch trials, leaving no doubt that those tried for witchcraft were not practitioners of a surviving pre-Christian religion.\n\nIn his 1971 book \"Religion and the Decline of Magic\", English historian Keith Thomas dismissed Murray's thesis when he asserted that scholarship on the Early Modern witch trials had established that there was \"very little evidence to suggest that the accused witches were either devil-worshippers or members of a pagan fertility cult\". Although accepting that when she first published her ideas, they were \"the best alternative\" to the dominant \"rationalist\" view of witchcraft as \"total delusion\", he stated that her conclusions were \"almost totally groundless\" because she ignored the systematic study of the trial accounts provided by Ewen and instead used sources very selectively to argue her point. In his 1975 book \"Europe's Inner Demons\", English historian Norman Cohn commented on the \"extraordinary\" manner in which Murray's theory had come to \"exercise considerable influence\" within scholarship. Cohn was nevertheless highly critical; he asserted that Murray's \"knowledge of European history, even of English history, was superficial and her grasp of historical method was non-existent.\" Furthermore, he added that her ideas were \"firmly set in an exaggerated and distorted version of the Frazerian mould.\" That same year, the Romanian historian of religion Mircea Eliade, writing in the \"History of Religions\" journal, described Murray's work as \"hopelessly inadequate\" and full of \"numberless and appalling errors\". He added that from the perspective of a historian of religion, \"her use of comparative materials and, in general, the methods of \"Religionswissenschaft\" have been unfortunate.\"\n\nIn 1994, the English folklorist Jacqueline Simpson devoted a paper in the \"Folklore\" journal to the subject of \"Margaret Murray: Who Believed Her, and Why?\". She noted that the Murrayite theory was \"based on deeply flawed methods and illogical arguments\" and that the discipline of folkloristics had been damaged by its association with Murray, who had been appointed President of the Folklore Society. Simpson outlined how Murray had selected her use of evidence very specifically, particularly by ignoring and/or rationalising any accounts of supernatural or miraculous events in the trial records, thereby distorting the events that she was describing. Thus, Simpson pointed out, Murray rationalised claims that the cloven-hoofed Devil appeared at the witches' Sabbath by stating that he was a man with a special kind of shoe, and similarly asserted that witches' claims to have flown through the air on broomsticks were actually based on their practice of either hopping along on broomsticks or smearing hallucinogenic salves onto themselves.\n\nIn 1996, historian Diane Purkiss asserted that Murray's thesis was \"intrinsically improbable\" and that it \"commands little or no allegiance within the modern academy\". She nevertheless felt that male scholars like Thomas, Cohn, and Macfarlane had committed \"ritual slaughter\" when setting up their own histories of witchcraft by condemning Murray's. In doing so, she identified a trend for them to contrast their own perceived methodologically sound and sceptical interpretations with Murray's \"feminised belief\" about the witch-cult, hence ignoring any theoretical considerations regarding the male-centric nature of their own perspectives.\n\nIn his 1999 book \"The Triumph of the Moon\", Hutton asserted that Murray had treated her source material with \"reckless abandon\", in that she had taken \"vivid details of alleged witch practices\" from \"sources scattered across a great extent of space and time\" and then declared them to be normative of the cult as a whole. Concurring with this assessment, historian Jeffrey B. Russell and Brooks Alexander stated that \"Murray's use of sources in general is appalling\". They went on to assert that \"Today, scholars are agreed that Murray was more than just wrong – she was completely and embarrassingly wrong on nearly all of her basic premises.\" In his sociological study of the Early Modern witchcraft, Gary Jensen highlighted that Murray's work had been \"seriously challenged\" and that it did not take into account \"why it took so long for the heretic witch to be invented and targeted\", noting that had the Murrayite witch-cult been a reality, then it would have been persecuted throughout the Medieval and not just in the Early Modern period.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s, Heinrich Himmler organised a branch of the SS to undertake the largest survey of witch-hunt trial records in Europe ever taken, with the dual aim of using it as anti-Christian propaganda, to claim that the inquisition had been a repression of an indigenous \"Völkisch\" Norse-Germanic nature religion, and as evidence for reconstructing that religion. This prompted Stuart Clark to dub the Nazi regime \"Europe's first and only 'pro-witch' government.\" One pamphlet, 1935's \"The Christian Witch-Craze\", claimed that the witch-hunts were an attempt to exterminate \"Aryan womanhood\".\n\nIn 1985 Classical historian Georg Luck, in his \"Arcana Mundi: Magic and the Occult in the Greek and Roman Worlds\", theorised that the origins of the witch-cult may have appeared in late antiquity as a faith primarily designed to worship the Horned God, stemming from the merging of Cernunnos, a horned god of the Celts, with the Greco-Roman Pan/Faunus, a combination of gods which he posits created a new deity, around which the remaining pagans, those refusing to convert to Christianity, rallied and that this deity provided the prototype for later Christian conceptions of the Devil, and his worshippers were cast by the Church as witches.\n\nWhile Murray's theory had received some negative critical attention at the time of its first publication, it was not until the 1950s and 1960s that her books became best sellers, reaching a larger audience and thereby subsequently causing experts to decide that \"the Murray thesis had to be stopped once and for all\" .\n\nSimpson noted that the publication of the Murray thesis in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" made it accessible to \"journalists, film-makers popular novelists and thriller writers\", who adopted it \"enthusiastically\". It influenced the work of Aldous Huxley and Robert Graves.\n\nThe Murrayite thesis provided the blueprint for the contemporary Pagan religion of Wicca.\n\nIn the 1950s, several British occultists claimed they had found remnants of the surviving Witch Cult. The first of these was Gerald Gardner, who claimed to have discovered a coven of such witches - the New Forest Coven, in 1939. Gardner said that he was concerned that the religion would die out, and so initiated more members into it through his Bricket Wood coven. The tradition that he started became Gardnerian Wicca. The New Forest witch Sybil Leek made a similar claim, stating that she followed the religion as many of her family had previously done, and a similar claim came from the Australian artist Rosaleen Norton, whose family had been of Welsh origin. Charles Cardell also made the claim of a hereditary lineage of the witch-cult, and he posited that the horned deity of the witches was known as Atho. Other Britons soon made the claim that they were members of a long line of family Witches. Robert Cochrane made such a claim, and ran a coven called the Clan of Tubal Cain; he inspired the founding of several movements, including the 1734 Tradition. Alex Sanders also made such a claim, and founded Alexandrian Wicca; however, Sanders turned out to be a Gardnerian initiate and had based Alexandrian ritual on Gardnerian Wicca. In 1974 E.W. Lidell made the claim that the occultist Aleister Crowley had been initiated into the witch-cult in 1899 or 1900, after being introduced to it through Allan Bennett, a Golden Dawn friend of his. Lidell continued his claim by saying that the coven's High Priestess expelled Crowley for being \"a dirty minded, evilly disposed, vicious little monster\". No substantiating evidence has, however, been produced for this.\n\nFrom the 1960s Carlo Ginzburg documented the beliefs of a number of early modern groups of sorcerers, seers and healers. He claimed they were rooted in pre-Christian paganism, and credited Murray with a \"correct intuition\" in identifying the remnants of a pre-Christian 'religion of Diana', and in believing that witch-trial testimonies did at times represent actual or perceived experiences.\nIn the original Italian preface to \"I benandanti\", published in 1966, Ginzburg discussed the work of Murray, claiming that although it contained \"a kernel of truth\", it had been \"formulated in a wholly uncritical way\", containing \"serious defects\". With the complete academic rejection of Murray's theories in the 1970s, Ginzburg attempted to clarify his work's relationship to Murray's Witch-Cult theory in his \"Preface to the English Edition\", written in 1982. Here, he expressly stated that \"Murray, in fact, asserted: (a) that witchcraft had its roots in an ancient fertility cult, and (b) that the sabbat described in the witchcraft trials referred to gatherings which had actually taken place. What my work really demonstrated, even if unintentionally, was simply the first point.\" He added that although he rejected her ideas, there was a \"kernel of truth\" in Murray's thesis.\n\nSome historians have viewed Ginzburg's ideas as being related to Murray's; Hungarian historian Gábor Klaniczay stated that \"Ginzburg reformulated Murray's often fantastic and very inadequately documented thesis about the reality of the witches' Sabbath\" and thus the publication of \"I Benandanti\" in 1966 \"reopened the debate about the possible interconnections between witchcraft beliefs and the survival of pagan fertility cults\". Similarly, Romanian historian of religion Mircea Eliade commented that while Ginzburg's presentation of the \"benandanti\" \"does not substantiate Murray's entire thesis\", it did represent a \"well-documented case of the \"processus\" through which a popular and archaic secret cult of fertility is transformed into a merely magical, or even black-magical practice under the pressure of the Inquisition.\" Historian of witchcraft Michael D. Bailey suggested that Ginzburg's work \"somewhat revived\" Murray's \"discredited notion of witchcraft representing an ancient fertility religion\".\n\nConversely, other scholars drew a clear divide between the ideas of Murray and Ginzburg; in 1975, Cohn stated that Ginzburg's discovery had \"nothing to do\" with Murray's witch-cult hypothesis. Echoing these views, in 1999 English historian Ronald Hutton stated that Ginzburg's ideas regarding shamanistic fertility cults were actually \"pretty much the opposite\" of what Murray had posited. Hutton pointed out that Ginzburg's argument that \"ancient dream-worlds, or operations on non-material planes of consciousness, helped to create a new set of fantasies at the end of the Middle Ages\" differed strongly from Murray's argument that an organised religion of witches had survived from the pre-Christian era and that descriptions of witches' sabbaths were accounts of real events. The folklorist Juliette Wood stated that while Ginzburg articulated a \"more sympathetic\" stance to Murray's ideas than other specialists in the witch trials, he \"does not propose anything approaching the pan-European cult which Murray advocated\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43461124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43461124", "title": "Xiao Yishan", "text": "Xiao Yishan\n\nXiao Yishan (蕭一山, May 7, 1902 – July 4, 1978) was a modern Chinese historian. He entered Peking University in 1921, learned from the prominent scholar Liang Qichao. He later taught history of Qing Dynasty at Tsinghua University, Henan University, Northeastern University and Northwest University. In winter 1948, Xiao moved to Taiwan. \"General History of the Qing Dynasty\" (《清代通史》) is his masterpiece, in that book he promoted a historical view of nationalism.\n"}
