{"id": "1765989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1765989", "title": "1910 World Missionary Conference", "text": "1910 World Missionary Conference\n\nThe 1910 World Missionary Conference, or the Edinburgh Missionary Conference, was held on 14 to 23 June, 1910. Some have seen it as both the culmination of nineteenth-century Protestant Christian missions and the formal beginning of the modern Protestant Christian ecumenical movement, after a sequence of interdenominational meetings that can be traced back as far as 1854.\n\nMajor Protestant denominations and missionary societies, predominantly from North America and Northern Europe, sent 1,215 representatives to Edinburgh, Scotland. Delegation was usually based on the annual expenditure of the missionary societies; one hundred additional special delegates were appointed by the British, Continental, and American Executive Committees. No Eastern Orthodox or Roman Catholic missionary organizations were invited. 18 delegates were from the non-Western world.\n\nLord Balfour, of the Church of Scotland, a former Unionist cabinet minister, was the President of the World Missionary Conference. American John R. Mott, an American Methodist layperson and leader of both the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions and the World Student Christian Federation, chaired its proceedings. The main organiser was Joseph Oldham, a leader in the Student Christian Movement. The conference was held in the Assembly Hall of the United Free Church of Scotland.\n\nThe formal title of this conference should be called the \"third ecumenical missionary conference,\" because the first and the second had already taken place in London in 1888 and New York in 1900 respectively.\n\nBefore the conference convened, eight assigned commissions, each with twenty members, conducted two years of research on their assigned topic. Each commission produced a single volume report, which was distributed to all of the delegates before they headed to Scotland and discussed at the assembly during the Conference.\n\nThe Eight Commissions and their date of presentation at the Conference are as follows:\n\nA ninth volume, containing the proceedings and major speeches, was published after the conclusion of the Conference.\n\nThe spirit of the Conference was driven by the watchword of the Protestant Christian Missionary community at the time: \"The Evangelization of the World in This Generation.\" Thus, sentiments of obligation and urgency drove many of the commission reports, discussions and speeches at the Conference. A call to unity among Protestant missionaries was also a common desire expressed at the Conference, although no common liturgy was celebrated among the delegates while in Edinburgh. In his 1947 book \"What Must the Church Do?\", Robert S. Bilheimer used the phrase \"New Reformation\" to refer to the ecumenical movement that resulted from the conference, and this usage became commonplace thereafter.\n\nIn the years following the Conference, Mott was especially energetic in promoting indigenisation of the evangelisation process. A Continuation Committee was formed under his leadership and he recruited thirty five members to carry out this mission. One important member was the only representative from China, Cheng Jingyi, whose address to the Conference had been especially fervent on the issue of turning leadership of mission organizations to native leaders. \n\nIn the next few years, members of this committee, under Mott's direction, headed to India, Burma, Malaysia, China, Korea, and Japan to gather information. The work of the Continuation Committee was interrupted by World War I, but formed the foundation for the establishment of the International Missionary Council, established in 1921. Later, in 1948, the World Council of Churches formed.\n\nIn celebration of its 100-year anniversary, a new World Missionary Conference was held in Edinburgh in 2010. Like the 1910 original, it was preceded by discussions on reports written by nine appointed study groups. There was a delegate conference in Edinburgh from 2–6 June 2010, which included representatives of the Evangelical, Protestant, Orthodox and Pentecostal churches, and the Roman Catholic Church. It produced a Common Call to mission. Recognising the global nature of modern Christianity and the wide appreciation of the Edinburgh 2010 legacy across churches and mission bodies, many other events and study processes took place throughout the year. The whole process was co-ordinated through the Edinburgh 2010 website, where documents, videos, photos, etc. are available.\n\nAlso in 2010, three other major conferences were held to commemorate Edinburgh 1910. The first was held in Tokyo as a gathering of global mission leaders, from May 11-14th, called the Global Mission Consultation. The next gathering, the Third International Congress of the Lausanne Movement, was held in Cape Town, South Africa, from 16–25 October 2010. The third gathering was held in Boston, from November 4–7. Each of these four gatherings reflected on the significance and outcomes of Edinburgh 1910 over the last century.They also looked to the future of the Church's global mission in the century ahead. The meetings in Edinburgh and Boston were more ecumenical in representation, and the meetings in Tokyo and Cape Town were primarily evangelical. The Tokyo meeting was organized and designed for evangelical mission leaders, and the Cape Town meeting was organized and designed for a broad representation of Church and mission leaders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54385024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54385024", "title": "Ann Pellegrini", "text": "Ann Pellegrini\n\nAnn Pellegrini is Professor of Performance Studies (Tisch School of the Arts) and Social and Cultural Analysis (Faculty of Arts and Science) at NYU and the director of NYU's Center for the Study of Gender and Sexuality. In 1998, she founded the Sexual Cultures book series at NYU Press with José Muñoz; she now co-edits the series with Joshua Takano Chambers-Letson and Tavia Nyong'o. Her book \"You Can Tell Just By Looking\", co-authored with Michael Bronski and Michael Amico, was a finalist for the 2014 Lambda Literary Award for Best LGBT Non-Fiction.\n\nPellegrini has undergraduate degrees from Harvard College and Oxford University. She then earned an M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard University.\n\n"}
{"id": "3768672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3768672", "title": "Antitactae", "text": "Antitactae\n\nAntitactæ, or antitactici, in antiquity, were a sect of gnostics who believe that God was good and just, but that one of his creatures had created evil, and had engaged humans to follow it, in order to set us in opposition to God. They believed that it was the duty of humanity to oppose this author of evil, in order to avenge God of his enemy. Their name is from the ancient Greek for \"I oppose; I am contrary\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11253672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11253672", "title": "Antoine Faivre", "text": "Antoine Faivre\n\nAntoine Faivre (born in Reims June 5, 1934) is a prominent French scholar of Western esotericism. Until his retirement, he held a chair in the École Pratique des Hautes Études at the Sorbonne, University Professor of Germanic studies at the University of Haute-Normandie, director of the \"Cahiers del Hermétisme\" and of \"Bibliothèque de l'hermétisme\", and is with Wouter Hanegraaff and Roland Edighoffer, the editor of the journal \"Aries\".\n\nFaivre was the first to define Western esotericism as a field of interdisciplinary academic study.\n\nHe was a founding member, and currently an honorary member, of the European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23277971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23277971", "title": "Believer's baptism", "text": "Believer's baptism\n\nBeliever's baptism (occasionally called credobaptism, from the Latin word \"credo\" meaning \"I believe\") is the Christian practice of baptism as this is understood by many evangelical denominations, particularly those that descend from the Anabaptist and English Baptist tradition. According to their understanding, a person is baptized on the basis of his or her profession of faith in Jesus Christ and as admission into a local community of faith.\n\nThe contrasting belief, held in nearly every other Christian tradition, is infant baptism (pedobaptism or paedobaptism, from the Greek \"paido\" meaning \"child\"), in which infants or young children are baptized if one or both parents are already members of the denomination. Such is the practice in the Roman Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox Churches, Coptic and Oriental Orthodox Churches, Lutheran Churches, Anglican and Episcopal Churches, and others.\n\nBaptisms are performed in various ways: believer's baptism is typically only by \"immersion\" or pouring (also called \"affusion\") and infant baptism by either immersion, \"affusion\", and \"aspersion\" (sprinkling). Believer's baptism is often referred to as adult baptism due to the denial that faith can exist prior to the age of accountability. Believer's baptism is also often extended to children so long as they are old enough to earnestly profess their faith.\n\nThe oldest surviving manual of church discipline, the Didache, envisions the baptism of adults. Advocates of believer's baptism contend that non-Biblical records are not authoritative, and that no evidence exists from the Bible or early Christian literature that infant baptism was practiced by the apostles. Defenders of infant baptism have attempted to trace the practice to the New Testament era, but generally acknowledge that no unambiguous evidence exists that the practice existed prior to the 2nd century.\n\nAnother argument posed by some advocates of believer's baptism focuses on the fact that most churches that practice infant baptism were heavily intertwined with the state in medieval and Reformation-era Europe. In many instances, citizens of a nation were required under penalty of law to belong to the state church. Infant baptism marked the infant as a citizen of the nation and a loyal subject of the reigning political order as much as it marked the infant as a Christian. To denominations like the Baptists, which have historically stressed religious liberty, toleration, and separation of church and state, this practice is an unacceptable violation of the basic human right to self-determination in matters of spirituality and religion; but this argument does little to dissuade the many pedobaptistic churches today which are, as in the United States and most other Western nations, unburdened by any compulsion to baptize anyone because of a governmental demand. \n\nOther advocates of credobaptism—who contend that non-Biblical records are not religiously authoritative—draw from biographical information contained in such records (patristics), to establish that the apostolic tradition was for children to become catechumens and baptized only after being trained and discipled in the basics of Christian doctrine. Examples include the lives of St. John Chrysostom, St. Basil of Caesarea, St. Gregory of Nazianzus, St. Ambrose, St. Augustine of Hippo, St. Jerome, Origen and others who were each baptized at adult age (sometimes 30 years or older), despite the fact of them having a Christian mother.\n\nFurther, credobaptists point to St. Cyril of Jerusalem, St. Gregory of Nyssa, St. John Chrysostom, St. Augustine and others who wrote procedures for catechumenical instruction (contrasted to writing procedures for the baptizing of infants.) It is a widely held opinion that St. Augustine, who had no Christian father, was an ardent advocate for infant baptism. However, his mother, Monica, was a Christian. St. Augustine was baptized at the age of 30 by St. Ambrose.\n\nIn addition, earlier patristical writings such as the Didache and Tertullian prescribe baptismal candidates to fasting, prayer, confessions, etc. before being allowed to be baptized. Tertullian (son of a presbyter) writes, \"Christians are made, not born.\" On the other hand, Tertullian acknowledges that infant baptism was a common practice in his day. He opposes it not on doctrinal grounds but practical ones, suggesting that baptism be postponed until after marriage so that one can be cleansed of the fornication one commits before marriage in baptism. Tertullian later in life became a Montanist and the strict views on post-baptismal sin which that sect took affected some of his writing.\n\nSeveral ecclesiastical histories seem to omit any discussion of infant baptism. Eusebius of Caesarea (~260–340 AD) gives ample discussion of baptisms, but makes no reference to the baptism of infants. Instead, Eusebius discusses the various positions, particularly during the time of Cyprian, wherein it was discussed whether those who were baptized by heretics needed to be re-baptized. This might be argued to be irrelevant if the individuals involved in heresy were baptized as infants, but the question was really whether a sacrament was valid if administered by a heretic, and so the question was whether a person baptized by a heretic should be rebaptized.\n\nLikewise, the church history of Socrates Scholasticus (305–438 AD) mentions a handful of examples of baptisms, none of which describe the baptizing of infants. However, by this time the practice of baptizing infants was common, as can be seen in the anti-Pelagian writings of Augustine.\n\nSimilarly, the church history written by Evagrius Scholasticus (431–594 AD) also provides descriptions of baptisms, none of which communicate the baptism of infants.\n\nThe book \"Martyrs Mirror\" documents the history of credobaptists through 1660.\n\nFor the first 300 years of the church, the common requirement for baptism was a profession of faith following a conversion to Christianity. Advocates of believers' baptism argue that this implies infants would not be baptized since they could not profess faith for themselves. Beginning with Augustine, the Catholic Church solidified the practice of infant baptism and there is little mention of competing practices until the 1500s. Augustine held the view that baptism was a requirement for the washing away of sins. He was faced with the issue of whether an unconscious or unwilling individual on their deathbed should be baptized; he felt it was better to err on the side of caution and baptize such a person. In the early 16th century, the Anabaptist movement began demanding that baptismal candidates be able to make a confession of faith that is freely chosen, thus rejecting the baptism of infants. This and other doctrinal differences led both Catholics and Protestants to persecute the Anabaptists, executing them by fire, sword, or drowning. Anabaptist groups spread across Europe and later to Russia and the Americas. In 1609, the Baptist movement applies this practice in all its churches.\n\nChristians who practice believer's baptism believe that saving grace and church membership are gifts from God by the recipient's faith alone and cannot be imparted or transferred from one person to another (such as from parent to child) by sacraments such as baptism. These tenets render infant baptism meaningless within their belief system. Because infants cannot hear or believe the gospel message, they cannot repent nor profess Christ as the Son of God. Credobaptists have differing views concerning the status of children who are too young to profess faith (Matthew 19:14).\n\nBeliever's baptism is held by Baptists, Mennonites, and many other Christians to have no saving effect, but to be a public expression of faith, symbolically representative of the inner conversion of the person being baptized. Many other Christian churches hold baptism to have salvific value.\n\nThe Churches of Christ, Disciples of Christ, and many \"Bible\" and non-denominational churches understand baptism to be an integral part of the conversion process, rather than just a symbol of conversion. Integral teachings of the Churches of Christ include the following:\n\nThere are many denominations and faith communities which hold to baptism for believers only, but do not hold that baptism contributes in any measure to salvation — which is also the view of some of the churches that do practice infant baptism. With respect to the second bullet point above — that baptism was a commandment for the remission of sins — these believe that was specific to the Jewish believers being addressed at that point in time. Their being baptized would be seen as publicly distancing themselves from the actions of the religious leaders who had participated in rejecting and then crucifying Jesus. These do not hold that baptism is still required for Jewish believers today, but rather that baptism was a command to Jewish believers at that point in time.\n\nLater in the book of Acts, both when Samaritans joined the church for the first time (Acts 8:12ff), and when Gentiles joined the Church for the first time (Acts 10:44ff), baptism followed immediately and was even commanded in Acts 10. Whether or not these examples of baptism that are found in the New Testament proves that children are categorically ineligible for baptism is disputed.\n\nAdvocates of believer's baptism argue that the New Testament does not describe instances of infant baptism, and that during the New Testament era, the early church required converts to have conscious, deliberate faith in Jesus Christ. Defenders of infant baptism counter that the book of Acts records instances of the baptism of entire households. The assumption is that these household baptisms involved infants that are incapable of personal belief.\nDefenders of infant baptism have claimed that baptism replaces the Jewish practice of circumcision, citing Colossians 2:11–13 as New Testament support, and is therefore appropriate for infants. Advocates of believer's baptism counter that the Jerusalem council in Acts 15 was called to clarify circumcision long after the practice of baptism was established. In the Old Covenant, males were circumcised. In the New Covenant, all — male and female, Jew and Greek, bond and free — may join the family of God. The KJV says in , \"[...] and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.\" Modern Bible versions omit the 37th verse, which is used to argue that the requirements for baptism are to believe in Christ. Since infants cannot \"believe with all [their] heart\", infants are not baptized.\n\nMany Reformed Baptists (Calvinistic Baptists) agree with the principles of Covenant Theology and agree that Baptism has, in a sense, replaced circumcision as the sign of covenant. They disagree with the typical Calvinist argument that, as the sign of the covenant in the Old Testament (namely circumcision) was administered to infants, so should the sign of the covenant in the New Testament church (namely baptism) be ministered to infants. They (Reformed Baptists) argue that the Old Testament covenent pertained to the actual descendents of Jacob which made up the physical nation of Israel, whereas the covenant community in the New Testament constitutes the spiritual sons of Abraham and thus form the spiritual Israel. Thus, they argue, the sign of the covenant should only be administered to spiritual sons. From Galatians 3:7, they (Reformed Baptists) argue that it is \"people of faith who are the sons of Abraham\" and baptism should be administered only to confessing believers and not infants, who are incapable of producing the requisite faith.\n\nGeneral Baptists have similar views as Particular (Reformed) Baptists, but emphasize the distinction between Israel and the Church.\n\nTheologians from churches that teach infant baptism point to Jesus' statement that children should be allowed to come to him. Advocates of believer's baptism counter that Jesus blessed the children and did not baptize them. While Jesus is recorded as baptizing in John 3:22–26, he called upon his followers to baptize \"all nations.\" Advocates of believer's baptism do evangelize children, even if they do not baptize all of them. Most Baptist evangelists, however, only limit \"infant\" baptism.\n\nBeliever's baptism is administered only to persons who have passed the age of accountability or reason, which is based upon a reading of the New Testament that only believers should be baptized. Some claim that it is also based upon the Jewish tradition of Bar Mitzvah at the age of 12 or 13, at which point Jewish children become responsible for their actions and \"one to whom the commandments apply.\" This analogy is not very helpful since a Jew who is not \"Bar Mitzvah\" is nonetheless considered to be fully a Jew—whereas the notion of an \"unbaptized Christian\" is more problematic. Many Christian theologians, including Zwingli, regard baptism as analogous to the Jewish practice of circumcision, rather than analogous to the Bar Mitzvah ceremony, although there are no explicit sections of the New Testament that support this idea.\n\nAmong credobaptists, differences in denominational practice (and in psychological development among children) can cause the \"age of accountability\" to be set higher or lower. Many developmentally challenged individuals never reach this stage regardless of age. Sometimes the pastor or church leader will determine the believer's understanding and conviction through personal interviews. In the case of a minor, parents' permission will also often be sought.\n\nIt is common for churches which practice believer's baptism to administer the ordinance to children aged eight or nine, following some training in the rudiments of the faith. Pedobaptists often question whether this abuses the belief that there is an \"age of accountability,\" since that term traditionally has referred to the ability to discern between good and evil actions, not to the ability to comprehend and assent to all the complexities of the Christian faith which adults might reasonably be expected to affirm as a condition of receiving baptism.\n\nHowever, not all credobaptists believe in an \"age of accountability.\" Furthermore, not all credobaptists believe in the doctrine of original sin. Many credobaptists believe that they are only held responsible for their personal sins, and that Jesus addressed the sins of Adam on the cross. As a result, according to these Christians, an infant does not need to repent and baptize away sins they have never personally committed.\n\nIn areas where those who practice believer's baptism are the physical or cultural majority, the ritual may function as a rite of passage by which the child is granted the status of an adult. Most denominations who practice believer's baptism also specify the mode of baptism, generally preferring \"immersion\" (in which the baptisand is lowered completely beneath the surface of a body of water) over \"affusion\" (in which water or holy water is sprinkled or poured over the baptisand). Holy water may also be employed in exorcisms, purification of the living space, etc. and is not restricted to use in baptism. In the case of physical disability or inability to be totally submerged under water, as with the elderly, bedridden, and nearly dead, the pouring of water upon the baptismal candidate is acceptable to some despite the usual contention of credobaptists that unless there is immersion, the act cannot, by definition, be a baptism.\n\nIn some denominations, believer's baptism is a prerequisite to full church membership. This is generally the case with churches with a congregational form of church government. Persons who wish to become part of the church must undergo believer's baptism in that local body or another body whose baptism the local body honors. Typically, local churches will honor the baptism of another church, if that tradition is of similar faith and practice, or if not, then if the person was baptized (usually by immersion) subsequent to conversion.\n\nBeliever's baptism is one of several distinctive doctrines associated closely with the Baptist and Anabaptist (literally, \"rebaptizer\") traditions, and their theological relatives. Among these are the members of the American Restoration Movement. Churches associated with Pentecostalism also practice believer's baptism.\n\nIn Holiness, Baptist and Pentecostal churches, a ritual known as Dedication or Infant Dedication supplements or replaces infant baptism. However, unlike baptism, the rite is centered upon the parents, who dedicate the child to God and vow to raise him or her in a God-fearing home. Although Dedication often occurs at the same age as infant baptism, it is not considered a replacement for baptism nor is it considered salvific for the child.\n\nBeliever's baptism is more prevalent in Christian traditions that maintain that there is a state of innocence from birth to the age of accountability (if the believer, because of mental or emotional disability, is not likely to gain the ability to judge the morality of his or her actions, this state of innocency persists for life). Credobaptism is less prevalent in traditions that maintain that the corruption of original sin is present at birth and is sufficient guilt in the eyes of God to cause the child to be damned or be in limbo, should he die before baptism.\n\nMany churches that baptize infants, such as the Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Reformed, Anglican, Methodist, Lutheran, Moravian, Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox denominations, previously functioned as national, state-established churches in various European and Latin American countries. During the Reformation, the relationship of the church to the state was a contentious issue, and infant baptism was seen as a way to ensure that society remained religiously homogeneous. As a result, groups that rejected infant baptism were seen as subversive and were often persecuted.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints completely rejects infant baptism. Little children are considered both born without sin and incapable of committing sin. They have no need of baptism until age eight, when they can begin to learn to discern right from wrong, and are thus accountable to God for their own actions. People completely incapable of understanding right from wrong, regardless of age, are also considered as not accountable for their actions, and are not baptized.\n\nAdherents.com has related that statistics based on membership totals reported by various denominations state that churches that practice infant baptism represent about 80% of Christians.\n\nOne standard theological argument leveled against believer's baptism is that it makes the efficacy of the sacrament dependent upon the understanding of the baptism; that is, it depends upon what the baptized knows. This is said by paedobaptists to run counter to the Calvinistic belief that God saves whomever he wills, regardless of any worth or knowledge on the part of the saved. Reformed Baptists and other Calvinist theologians counter that believer's baptism is fully consistent with Calvin's doctrine of unconditional election, and that when properly understood it is also the most appropriate expression of Covenant theology.\n\nEven in theological circles where some response to God's call is considered necessary for the convert (such as belief, confession, repentance, and prayer), a believer's baptism is sometimes categorized as a work instead of a response of faith, though not always (see Baptism in the Christian churches and churches of Christ). Among the Churches of Christ, for example, baptism is seen as a passive act of faith rather than a meritorious work; it \"is a confession that a person has nothing to offer God.\" While Churches of Christ do not describe baptism as a \"sacrament,\" their view of it can legitimately be described as \"sacramental.\" They see the power of baptism coming from God, who chose to use baptism as a vehicle, rather than from the water or the act itself, and understand baptism to be an integral part of the conversion process, rather than just a symbol of conversion. A recent trend is to emphasize the transformational aspect of baptism: instead of describing it as just a legal requirement or sign of something that happened in the past, it is seen as \"the event that places the believer 'into Christ' where God does the ongoing work of transformation.\" Because of the belief that baptism is a necessary part of salvation, some Baptists hold that the Churches of Christ endorse the doctrine of baptismal regeneration. However, members of the Churches of Christ reject this, arguing that since faith and repentance are necessary, and that the cleansing of sins is by the blood of Christ through the grace of God, baptism is not an inherently redeeming ritual. One author from the churches of Christ describes the relationship between faith and baptism: \"\"Faith\" is the \"reason why\" a person is a child of God; \"baptism\" is the \"time at which\" one is incorporated into Christ and so becomes a child of God\" (italics in the source). Baptism is understood as a confessional expression of faith and repentance, rather than a \"work\" that earns salvation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39015839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39015839", "title": "Bernard Green", "text": "Bernard Green\n\nEdward Bernard Green OSB (1953–22 March 2013) was an English Catholic priest, Benedictine monk of Ampleforth Abbey, and historian.\n\nGreen was educated at Oriel College, Oxford, where he received his BA in Modern History and later his MA. He became a Benedictine monk of Ampleforth Abbey in 1975 and was ordained a Catholic priest in 1981. He served as a history master at Ampleforth College from 1977 until 1995, and as housemaster of St Aidan's from 1992 until 1995. Green later took an MPhil in theology at the University of Cambridge and a DPhil in theology at the University of Oxford. He was appointed Fellow, Director of Studies, and Tutor in Theology at St Benet's Hall, Oxford, Research Fellow and Senior Member of Campion Hall, Oxford, and Tutor at the Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies.\n\nGreen maintained for many years a connection with the Ampleforth Hospitalité Notre Dame de Lourdes. He first visited the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes aged 11 during a pilgrimage that he had undertaken with his mother. Green later took part in five consecutive pilgrimages with the Ampleforth Hospitalité, and in 1986, following the award of a medal in recognition of his five pilgrimages, he was appointed director of the Ampleforth pilgrimage. In 1991 he became a \"titulaire\" of the Hospitalité Notre Dame de Lourdes. Green resigned the directorship of the Ampleforth pilgrimage after the 1995 pilgrimage. The reason for this was because he would have been unable to continue to participate in the pilgrimage after he had relocated to St Benet's Hall, Oxford.\n\nDuring the period following his resignation of the directorship Green is said to have 'remained in the background'. During the period before his death he served as the pilgrimage's spiritual advisor. Green was the author of \"Not Strangers but Pilgrims: A History of Ampleforth in Lourdes\" (Ampleforth: Ampleforth Abbey Press, in association with Way Books, Campion Hall, Oxford, 2009; 191 pages, including 1 illustration), described by the Very Reverend Dom Terence Richardson, OSB, Prior of Ampleforth Abbey, as 'the definitive history of the Ampleforth Pilgrimage … a work that was carefully researched, very readable and, at times, amusing and very effective in capturing the personalities of so many of the people who had been involved in the Pilgrimage over the years, while being very self-effacing about his own contributions. Green also undertook pilgrimages to Medjugorje and San Sebastián de Garabandal.\n\nGreen was a frequent contributor to \"The Tablet\", for which he wrote about forty book reviews. His last review, of David Gwynn's \"Athanasius of Alexandria\", was published posthumously on 13 April 2013.\n\nGreen appeared in a television series about the history of the Catholic Church in England.\n\nIn 1995, while serving as a housemaster of St Aidan's at Ampleforth College, Green indecently assaulted a 13-year-old boy while the boy slept in his dormitory. As soon as the allegation was made Green was suspended by the headmaster, Leo Chamberlain, who made the following statement: \"The housemaster had entered a dormitory and touched a sleeping boy in a manner which he now recognises was inappropriate. We are conducting an immediate and full investigation. But our first concern is for the welfare of the boy concerned. Parents are being fully informed.\" At the same time, a spokesman for the school stated that the allegation was being investigated internally and that the school did not expect the allegation to become the subject of a police enquiry.\n\nGreen was arrested in response to an allegation that had been received by North Yorkshire Police. He is said to have co-operated fully during the investigation by both police and social services. Towards the end of February 1996 he was charged with indecent assault. In April 1996 Green pleaded guilty to this charge. During the court hearing the boy was said to have been 'petrified' during the incident. Green was sentenced to 50 hours' community service and two years of probation. At the time of his conviction statements were made stating, \"Father Bernard will remain a Benedictine monk under the direct authority of the Abbot of Ampleforth. The Abbot will ensure that in future his work will not include any contact with or responsibility for children\" and that \"Father Bernard, in the light of his repentance and co-operation, will continue to live as a monk. Following the provisions of Church Law, any future exercise of his priesthood will be subject to canonical restrictions imposed by the Abbot of Ampleforth in Council. The restrictions will be designed to avoid any further problems with the young.\" Green was also barred by the Department for Education from teaching or undertaking any work with children or young persons under the age of 19.\n\nIn 1998, Green moved to St Benet's Hall, Oxford, and in 2000 began teaching at Oxford, in breach of his DfE ban. On 9 June 2005 an undergraduate at St Benet's Hall made a formal complaint of harassment against Green. The incident took place in the seventh week of the Trinity term during a picnic at Port Meadow, Oxford organised by St Benet's Joint Common Room. Other students supported the complainant's allegation. A formal investigation was conducted on behalf of St Benet's and the proctors of the University of Oxford by a panel comprising one non-tutorial fellow of St Benet's and two independent members. The panel found that he was guilty of serious misconduct, and he was issued a five‑year final written warning. All parties were said to have been satisfied with the outcome and Green was reported to have made an apology.\n\nIn April 2010, Ampleforth Abbey investigated further allegations made against Green regarding sexual misconduct towards two adult men, but the investigation was inconclusive. In June 2012, Green was dismissed from St Benet's Hall after a review of the 1995 case revealed his teaching ban.\n\nGreen died on 22 March 2013, having suffered a massive heart attack during the night. His funeral rites took place on 3 and 4 April 2013 at Ampleforth Abbey; he was interred in Monks' Wood.\n\n"}
{"id": "13413421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13413421", "title": "Birger A. Pearson", "text": "Birger A. Pearson\n\nBirger A. Pearson (born 1934 in California, United States) is an American scholar and professor studying early Christianity and Gnosticism. He currently holds the positions of Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara and Professor and Interim Director of the Religious Studies Program at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nHe has a B.A. in Classical languages from Upsala College in East Orange, New Jersey; a Bachelor of Divinity in Biblical Studies and Theology from Pacific Lutheran Theological Seminary in Berkeley, CA; an M.A. in Greek from the University of California, Berkeley; and a Ph.D. in New Testament and Christian Origins from Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nPearson was one of the original translators of the Nag Hammadi library, and was also involved with the 2007 translation by Marvin Meyer. In his writings, he explores the origins of Gnosticism and Christianity. Unlike many scholars, who see Gnosticism as a Christian heresy, Pearson believes that it emerged from Jewish mystics disaffected with the Jerusalem religious authorities, who were influenced by Platonism and mystery religion.\n\n\nHis book, \"Ancient Gnosticism: Traditions and Literature\", examines the primary texts for Gnostic beliefs, including Christian Gnosticism, Hermetic Gnosticism, Mandaeanism, and Manicheanism.\n\nIn 2002 Pearson received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Theology at Uppsala University, Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "43343023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43343023", "title": "Buddhapad Hoard", "text": "Buddhapad Hoard\n\nThe Buddhapad Hoard or \"Buddam Hoard\" is a large cache of Buddhist sculptures found near the town of Buddam in Andhra Pradesh, southern India. Since 1905, it has formed an important part of the British Museum's South Asian collection. Dating from 6th-8th centuries AD, the style of craftsmanship fuses the northern influences of the Gupta period with the southern traditions of the Deccan, which in turn greatly influenced Buddhist art in South East Asia in subsequent centuries.\n\nThe hoard was discovered in the late nineteenth century and it was described by the colonial historian Robert Sewell in 1895. The artefacts was subsequently donated by the Secretary of State for India to the British Museum in 1905. Given the religious nature of the sculptures, the cache may have originally formed part of a ritual deposit from a Buddhist temple or monastery.\n\nThe 6th-8th century hoard is composed of fifteen bronze Buddhist images, the vast majority of which are either statuettes or parts of small figures. There are three relatively intact standing statuettes of the Buddha (the largest of which is 38 cm high), 4 bronze arms, two bases for standing figures (one of which has a Brahmi inscription), a representation of the god Tirthankara, two small Buddha heads, two fragmentary figures of Parsvanatha and a bronze model of a stupa.\n\n"}
{"id": "3254091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3254091", "title": "Buddhism in Croatia", "text": "Buddhism in Croatia\n\nThe first Croatian Buddhist group was founded in Zagreb in the 80's. Several groups have formed since, affiliated with different traditions. Estimates of the number of Buddhists in Croatia vary from 500 to 1000, depending on the definition. At present, active Buddhist groups are working to establish foundational practices and communities in major cities. Traditions represented presently are Nyingma and Rime (nonsectarian) of Tibetan Buddhism, Shingon and Zen of Japanese Buddhism, and Ch'an of Chinese Buddhism.\n\n"}
{"id": "13700996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13700996", "title": "Buddhist Cultural Centre", "text": "Buddhist Cultural Centre\n\nBuddhist Cultural Centre (BCC) in Sri Lanka was founded by Ven. Kirama Wimalajhoti Thera who had returned to Sri Lanka after twenty years of dedicated missionary activity in Malaysia, Singapore and US. It was inaugurated on January 2, 1992 under the auspices of Ven. Dr. K. Sri Dhammananda Thera, the chief prelate of Malaysia and Singapore and a plethora of other internationally famed Buddhist scholar monks of the time. It sought to fill a need of the devoted Buddhists in Sri Lanka and the rest of the world. What made Ven. Wimalajhoti Thera start the BCC was the dearth of Buddhist publications in Sri Lanka notwithstanding its reputation as a country where Buddhism prevails in its pristine form. This fact was pointed to Ven. Wimalajhoti Thera by some of his foreign neophytes who had arrived in Sri Lanka to learn Buddhism when they had strolled quite unsuccessfully all over the outskirts of Colombo along with him in search of some Buddhist publications.\n\nThe BCC having thus begun in a small scale purporting to dispense the Dhamma among Buddhist devotees expanded massively with time thanks to the dedication and zeal of Ven. Wimalajhoti Thera. By now it has perhaps become the world’s largest Theravada Buddhist book collection. It dispenses not only Dhamma books but also other items venerated and frequently used by Buddhists such as images of the Buddha, requisites of Buddhist monks (Atapirikara), incense sticks and meditation cushions…etc.\n\nIn 1993 a meditation centre was set up on a 20-acre mountainous plateau amidst a salubrious sylvan environment as the first appendage to be added to the BCC network. It is situated in \"Dekanduwala\", Horana about 30 km away from Colombo. It has residential facilities and provides training in meditation for both local and foreign nationals since 1994. Among the programs it conducted, the two-week temporary ordination for young people carried out in 2003 became particularly popular. The training in Dhamma and meditation has also been provided for nuns both local and foreign since 2002. The management and execution of the training programs thereof are done by fifteen fully ordained bhikkhunīs. So far around 2000 foreigners have been trained by the centre besides local participants and nuns. This meditation centre is soon to be converted into a fully fledged internationally recognized \"Bhikkhunī Training Centre\" equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for training prospective nuns, which is to be affiliated to the BCC and is to be divested of government support.\n\nIn 1995 a printing press was amalgamated to the BCC to print and publish ancient but extant and rare Sinhala Dhamma treatises. In the same year, a mobile bookshop was launched to make the Dhamma books accessible particularly to those who live in rural areas and to promote the reading habit among the general populace.\n\nIn 2002 a branch of the BCC was started in the airport at the departure/transit lounge which was designated \"Food for the Mind\". It serves to disseminate Dhamma among interested foreigners and locals.\n\nSince the very inception of the BCC, exhibitions have been held throughout the island with the intent of popularizing Dhamma books and it could be said with certainty that the effort has been very successful; now even other publishers have begun publishing a copious amount of Dhamma books as would be evident to anybody on visiting book exhibitions.\n\nIn 2011, a new building designated \"Sambuddhatva Jayanthi Mandiraya\" was erected at the heart of Colombo in commemoration of 2600 years of the advent of Buddhism. It consists of 16 storeys and includes auditorium facilities for conferences, seminars, convocations…etc. It also incorporates a bookshop operating under the BCC at Nedimala, Dehiwala, probably the largest of its kind containing books on Buddhism in the world. It is a centre of Buddhist activity wherein seminars and classes are held on various Buddhist themes as meditation and also correspondence courses in Buddhism are conducted for the benefit of those who are desirous of imbibing Buddhist wisdom. Moreover, local and foreign languages are taught there as well as a Buddhist counseling service is carried out; and many more facets to its multifarious Buddhist activities. \n\nBCC since its induction in 1992, it has the following achievements to its credit:\nOn January 1, 2008, Buddhist Cultural Center launched its online bookshop with worldwide shipping options.\n\n"}
{"id": "39492651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39492651", "title": "Calgary Jewish News", "text": "Calgary Jewish News\n\nCalgary Jewish News, the first community-run newspaper of the Jewish community of Calgary, Alberta, was published from September 1962 to 1988.\n\nThe first known Jewish settler arrived in Calgary in 1889, but it was not until 1954 that a Jewish community council was launched. The Calgary Jewish Community Council, which united 17 disparate organizations, is considered to date back to 1962. In that year, Harry S. Shatz was hired as the council's first executive director. By 1961, Calgary's Jewish population had grown from around 400 families in 1930 to an estimated 2,881 people.\n\nIn the early 1960s, most Canadian Jewish newspapers and magazines were independently owned and operated. The purpose of the monthly, tabloid-sized \"Calgary Jewish News\", according to Shatz, its first editor, was to unite the community and eliminate the redundancy of competing organizational publications.\n\nAt the end of the 1970s, \"Calgary Jewish News\" expanded beyond its initial purpose. In 1979, it published articles in Russian, Hebrew, and Yiddish, reflecting the growth and diversity of the community; in 1980, it began subscribing for the first time to the Jewish Telegraphic News Service, and also published a 24-page edition, its largest ever.\n\nBy 1980, Canadian Jewish communities \"were moving to take-over Jewish weeklies,\" but the trend was reversed in Calgary with the appearance that year of \"The Jewish Star\", the city's first independent Jewish newspaper. The ensuing uneasy relationship between the organized Calgary Jewish leadership and the independent \"Jewish Star\" mirrored tensions playing out in the 1980s and 1990s in Los Angeles, New York, Toronto and elsewhere between a free press and Jewish federations. For the first time, the Calgary Council saw reports from within the community which it deemed unflattering.\n\nIn 1982, in a move that saved the Council thousands of dollars on mailing costs, the \"Calgary Jewish News\" was inserted into, and delivered by mail with, \"The Jewish Star\".\n\n\"Calgary Jewish News\" was discontinued in 1988, and followed by the Calgary Jewish Community Council's newsletter, \"Dor L'Dor\".\n\n\"Calgary Jewish News\" was edited by Harry S. Shatz from September 1962 to September 1978. Subsequent individuals named in the publication as editor included Gil August (1978–79); Douglas Wertheimer (1979–80); Avrim Namak (1980-82); and Rose Suissa (1981).\n\n"}
{"id": "223865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223865", "title": "Carbonari", "text": "Carbonari\n\nThe Carbonari (Italian for \"charcoal makers\") was an informal network of secret revolutionary societies active in Italy from about 1800 to 1831. The Italian Carbonari may have further influenced other revolutionary groups in France, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Russia, Brazil and Uruguay. Although their goals often had a patriotic and liberal basis, they lacked a clear immediate political agenda. They were a focus for those unhappy with the repressive political situation in Italy following 1815, especially in the south of the Italian Peninsula. Members of the Carbonari, and those influenced by them, took part in important events in the process of Italian unification (called the \"Risorgimento)\", especially the failed Revolution of 1820, and in the further development of Italian nationalism. The chief purpose was to defeat tyranny and to establish constitutional government. In the north of Italy other groups, such as the Adelfia and the Filadelfia, were associate organizations.\nThe Carbonari were a secret society divided into small covert cells scattered across Italy. Although agendas varied, evidence suggests that despite regional variations, most of the membership agreed upon the creation of a liberal, unified Italy. The Carbonari were anti-clerical in both their philosophy and programme. The Papal constitution Ecclesiam a Jesu Christo and the encyclical \"Qui pluribus\" were directed against them. The controversial document Alta Vendita, which called for a liberal or modernist takeover of the Catholic Church, was attributed to the Sicilian Carbonari.\n\nAlthough it is not clear where they were originally established, they first came to prominence in the Kingdom of Naples during the Napoleonic wars. Although some of the society's documents claimed that it had origins in medieval France, and that its progenitors were under the sponsorship of Francis I of France during the sixteenth century, this claim can not be verified by outside sources. Although a plethora of theories have been advanced as to the origins of the Carbonari, the organization most likely emerged as an offshoot of Freemasonry, as part of the spread of liberal ideas from the French Revolution. They first became influential in the Kingdom of Naples (under the control of Joachim Murat) and in the Papal States, the most resistant opposition to the \"Risorgimento\". The Carbonari were probably an offshoot of the Freemasons, from whom they differed in important particulars, and first began to assume importance in southern Italy during the Napoleonic wars.\n\nAs a secret society that was often targeted for suppression by conservative governments, the Carbonari operated largely in secret. The name \"Carbonari\" identified the members as rural “charcoal-burners”; the place where they met was called a \"“baracca”\", the members called themselves “good cousin” while people who did not belong to the Carbonari were “pagani”. There were special ceremonies to initiate the members.\n\nThe aim of the Carbonari was the creation of a constitutional monarchy or a republic; they wanted also to defend the rights of common people against all forms of absolutism. Carbonari, to achieve their purpose, talked of fomenting armed revolts.\n\nThe membership was separated into two classes—apprentice and master. There were two ways to become a master: through serving as an apprentice for at least six months or by already being a Freemason upon entry. Their initiation rituals were structured around the trade of charcoal-selling, suiting their name.\n\nIn 1814 the Carbonari wanted to obtain a constitution for the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies by force. The Bourbon king, Ferdinand I of the Two Sicilies, was opposed to them. The Bonapartist Joachim Murat had wanted to create a united and independent Italy. In 1815 Ferdinand I found his kingdom swarming with them. Society in the \"Regno\" comprised nobles, officers of the army, small landlords, government officials, peasants and priests, with a small urban middle class. Society was dominated by the Papacy. On 15 August 1814, Cardinals Ercole Consalvi and Bartolomeo Pacca issued an edict forbidding all secret societies, to become members of these secret associations, to attend their meetings, or to furnish a meeting-place for such, under severe penalties.\n\nThe Carbonari first arose during the resistance to the French occupation, notably under Joachim Murat, the Bonapartist King of Naples. However, once the wars ended, they became a nationalist organisation with a marked anti-Austrian tendency and were instrumental in organising revolutions in Italy in 1820–1821 and 1831.\n\nThe 1820 revolution began in Naples against King Ferdinand I. Riots, inspired by events in Cadiz, Spain that same year, took place in Naples, bandying anti-absolutist goals and demanding a liberal constitution. On July 1, two officers, Michele Morelli and Joseph Silvati, (who had been part of the army of Murat under Guglielmo Pepe), marched towards the town of Nola in Campania at the head of their regiments of cavalry.\n\nWorried about the protests, King Ferdinand agreed to grant a new constitution and the adoption of a parliament. The victory, albeit partial, illusory and apparent, caused a lot of hope in the peninsula and local conspirators, led by Santorre di Santarosa, marched toward Turin, capital of the Kingdom of Sardinia and 12 March 1821 obtained a constitutional monarchy and liberal reforms as a result of Carbonari actions. However, the Holy Alliance did not tolerate such revolutionary compromises and in February 1821 sent an army that defeated the outnumbered and poorly equipped insurgents in the south. In Piedmont, King Vittorio Emanuele I, undecided what to do, abdicated in favor of his brother Charles Felix of Sardinia; but Charles Felix, more resolute, invited an Austria military intervention. On April 8, the Habsburg army defeated the rebels and the uprisings of 1820–1821, triggered almost entirely by the Carbonari, ended up collapsing.\n\nOn September 13, 1821 Pope Pius VII with the bull Ecclesiam \"a Jesu Christo\" condemned the Carbonari as a Freemason secret society, excommunicating its members.\n\nAmong the principal leaders of the Carbonari, Morelli and Silvati were sentenced to death; Pepe went into exile; Federico Confalonieri, Silvio Pellico, and Piero Maroncelli were imprisoned.\n\nThe Carbonari were defeated but not beaten; they took part in the revolution of July 1830 that supported the liberal policy of King Louis Philippe of France on the wings of victory for the uprising in Paris. The Italian Carbonari took up arms against some states in central and northern Italy, particularly the Papal States and Modena.\n\nCiro Menotti was to take the reins of the initiative, trying to find the support of Duke Francis IV of Modena, who pretended to respond positively in return for granting the title of King of Italy, but the Duke made the double play and Menotti, virtually unarmed, was arrested the day before the date fixed for the uprising. Francis IV, at the suggestion of the Austrian statesman Klemens von Metternich, had condemned him to death, along with many others among Menotti's allies. This was the last major effort by the secret group.\n\nIn 1820, the Neapolitan Carbonari once more took up arms, in order to wring a constitution from King Ferdinand I. They advanced against the capital from Nola under a military officer and the Abbot Minichini. They were joined by General Pepe and many officers and government officials, and the king took an oath to observe the Spanish constitution in Naples. The movement spread to Piedmont, and Victor Emmanuel resigned the throne in favour of his brother Charles Felix. It was only through the intervention of Austria. The Carbonari secretly continued their agitation against Austria and the governments in friendly connection with it. They formed a vendita. Pope Pius VII issued a general condemnation of the secret society of the Carbonari. The association lost its influence by degrees and was gradually absorbed into the new political organizations that sprang up in Italy; its members became affiliated especially with Mazzini's \"Young Italy\". From Italy the organization was carried to France where it appeared as the Charbonnerie, which, was divided into ventes. Members were especially numerous in Paris. The chief aim of the association in France also was political, namely, to obtain a constitution in which the conception of the sovereignty of the people could find expression. From Paris the movement spread rapidly through the country, and it was the cause of several mutinies among the troops; it lost its importance after several conspirators were executed, especially as quarrels broke out among the leaders. The Charbonnerie took part in the Revolution, 1830; after the fall of the Bourbons, its influence rapidly declined. After this a Charbonnerie démocratique was formed among the French Republicans; after 1841, nothing more was heard of it. Carbonari were also to be found in Spain, but their numbers and importance were more limited than in the other Romance countries.\n\nIn 1830, Carbonari took part in the July Revolution in France. This gave them hope that a successful revolution might be staged in Italy. A bid in Modena was an outright failure, but in February 1831, several cities in the Papal States rose up and flew the Carbonari tricolour. A volunteer force marched on Rome but was destroyed by Austrian troops who had intervened at the request of Pope Gregory XVI. After the failed uprisings of 1831, the governments of the various Italian states cracked down on the Carbonari, who now virtually ceased to exist. The more astute members realised they could never take on the Austrian army in open battle and joined a new movement, Giovane Italia (\"Young Italy\") led by the nationalist Giuseppe Mazzini. Independent from French Philadelphians were instead the homonymous \"carbonara\" group born in Southern Italy, especially in Puglia [3] and in the Cilento, between 1816 and 1828. In Cilento, in 1828, an insurrection of Philadelphia, who called for the restoration of the Neapolitan Constitution of 1820, was fiercely repressed by the director of the Bourbon police Francesco Saverio Del Carretto: among the atrocities we remember the destruction of the village of Bosco.\n\nThis defeat made it clear to many Carbonari (such as Giuseppe Mazzini, one of the most acute Carbonari leaders) that militarily, especially if alone, they could not compete with Austria, one of the greatest powers of the Old Continent. They founded a new secret society called the Young Italy in which many members would trace their origins and inspiration to the Carbonari. Rapidly declining in influence and members, the Carbonari practically ceased to exist, although the official history of this important company had continued, wearily, until 1848.\n\nProminent members of the Carbonari included:\n\nThe Portuguese Carbonari (\"\") was first founded there in 1822 but was soon disbanded.\n\nA new organization of the same name and claiming to be its continuation was founded in 1896 by Artur Augusto Duarte da Luz de Almeida. This organisation was active in efforts to educate the people and was involved in various antimonarchist conspiracies. Most notably, \"Carbonária\" members were active in the assassination of King Charles I and his heir, Prince Louis Philip in 1908. \"Carbonária\" members also played a part in the 5 October 1910 revolution that deposed the Constitutional Monarchy and implemented the republic. One commonality among them was their hostility to the Church and they contributed to the republic's anticlericalism.\n\nTwo results of great importance in the progress of the European Revolution (Revolutions of 1848) proceeded from the events that occurred at Naples in 1820-21. One was the reorganization of the Carbonari, consequent upon the publicity given to their organization when it had brought about the revolution (and the secrecy in which it had hitherto been enveloped was no longer deemed necessary); the other was the extension of the organization beyond the Alps. When the Neapolitan revolution had been effected, the Carbonari emerged from their mystery, published their constitution statutes, and ceased to conceal their programme and their cards of membership.\n\nIn particular, the dispersion of the Carbonari leaders had, at the same time, the effect of extending their influence in France. General Guglielmo Pepe proceeded to Barcelona when the counter-revolution was imminent at Naples and his life was no longer safe there; and to the same city went several of the Piedmontese revolutionists when the country was Austrianized after the same lawless fashion. The dispersion of Scalvini and Ugoni that took refuge at Geneva and others of the proscribed that proceeded to London added to the progress which Carbonarism was making in France, suggested to General Pepe the idea of an international secret society, which would combine for a common purpose the advanced political reformers of all the European States.\n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi has been called the \"Hero of the Two Worlds\" because of his military enterprises in Brazil, Uruguay and Europe. In 1836, Garibaldi took up the cause of Republic of Rio Grande do Sul in its attempt to separate from the Empire of Brazil, joining the rebels known as the Ragamuffins in the Ragamuffin War (1835-1845). In 1841, Garibaldi moved to Montevideo, Uruguay. In 1842, he took command of the Uruguayan fleet and raised an \"Italian Legion\" of soldiers for the Uruguayan Civil War (1839-1851). He aligned his forces with a faction composed of the Uruguayan Colorados and the Argentine Unitarios. This faction received support from the French and British Empires in their struggle against the forces of the Uruguayan Government and Argentine Federales.\n\nThe story Vanina Vanini by Stendhal involved a hero in the Carbonari and a heroine who became obsessed by this. It was made into a film in 1961.\n\nRobert Louis Stevenson's story \"The Pavilion on the Links\" features the Carbonari as the villains of the plot.\n\nKatherine Neville's novel \"The Fire\" features the Carbonari as part of a plot involving a mystical chess service.\n\nIn Wilkie Collins' \"The Woman in White\" the character of Professor Pesca is a member of 'The Brotherhood', an organisation placed contemporaneously with, and similarly featured as, the Carbonari. Clyde Hyder suspects that the model for Prof. Pesca was Gabriele Rossetti, who was a member of the Carbonari, as well as an Italian teacher resident in London during the 1840s.\n\nAnton Felix Schindler's biography of Beethoven \"Beethoven as I Knew Him\" states that his close connection with the composer was begun in 1815 when the latter requested an account of Schindler's involvement with a riot of Napoleon's supporters in Vienna, who were agitating against the Carbonari uprisings. Schindler was arrested and lost a year at college. Beethoven was sympathetic and, as a result, became a close friend of Schindler.\n\nThe Carbonari are mentioned prominently in the Sherlock Holmes short story \"The Adventure of the Red Circle\" (1911), written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.\n\nThe Carbonari are also mentioned briefly in the book \"Resurrection Men\" by T. K. Welsh, in which the main character's father is a member of the secret organisation.\n\nThey feature in Tim Powers' \"The Stress of Her Regard\" as opponents of the vampire-backed Austrian Empire.\n\nMr. Settembrini's grandfather in Thomas Mann's \"The Magic Mountain\" is said to be Carbonari.\n\nThe Carbonari are mentioned in \"The Hundred Days\" by Patrick O'Brian, part of the Aubrey-Maturin series.\n\nUmberto Eco's \"The Cemetery of Prague\" mentions the Carbonari, with the main character joining them as a spy.\n\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "52763065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52763065", "title": "Charles Davies (Baptist minister)", "text": "Charles Davies (Baptist minister)\n\nCharles Davies (1849 – January 1927) was a Welsh Baptist minister. His parents were Daniel and Margaret Davies of Llwynhendy. After completing his education at the Graig Academy grammar school in Swansea, he moved to study at the Baptist College, Llangollen. Following his ordination in 1870 he took charge of Penuel, Bangor. In 1877 he moved to Everton Village, Liverpool, before returning to Wales in 1888 to follow Nathaniel Thomas (1818 - 1888) as minister of Tabernacle Chapel, Cardiff.\n\nHis published writings include \"Cyfrol o Bregethau\" (1910), and contributions to \"Y Geninen\".\n\nHe died in January 1927. In the following year, a stained glass window was installed at the chapel in his memory.\n"}
{"id": "43783454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43783454", "title": "Cheng Beng Buddhist Society", "text": "Cheng Beng Buddhist Society\n\nCheng Beng Buddhist Society, also the Vimalakirti Buddhist Centre (), is a Buddhist monastery in Singapore. The foundation was originally set up by Venerable Wen Ming Hu. The present premises are located at Geylang, Singapore.\n\nCheng Beng Buddhist Society was founded as Singapore Buddhist Youth Group in 1961 by Wen Ming Hu and other lay Buddhists, and was renamed under its present name in 1962 when it was also relocated at an address offered by Chen Lu Niang. The society was named after the Buddhist bodhisattva Vimalakirti, a householder devotee of the ancient Shakyamuni Buddha.\n\nBuilding expansion took place from 2002 onwards which saw a six-story building completed.\n\nOn 4 March 2012 the present day name of Vimalakirti Buddhist Centre was adopted.\n\nOccasional Buddhist workshops and services catering towards the lay Buddhist community are offered on its premises. The centre also hosts the \"Cakkavala Meditation Centre\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53654595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53654595", "title": "Conservation and restoration of Judaica", "text": "Conservation and restoration of Judaica\n\nObjects used in Jewish rituals are known collectively as Judaica. The conservation and restoration of Judaica takes into account the collective body of Jewish religious laws derived from the written and oral Torah known as, halacha in order to properly care for these materials. This work involves identifying these objects and therefore knowing how any of these objects are traditionally handled, stored, exhibited, and generally cared for based on their use and significance. \n\nTraditional Judaism divides ritual objects into two main categories, those that carry holiness; and those that are essential to the performance of a particular ritual or commandment but that have no intrinsic quality that is defined as sacred or holy. Once they are no longer in ritual use and are in the possession of a museum, only some of the objects in the first category are traditionally treated differently from the way other collections are treated. For these pieces, repair or restoration done by a conservator is not common. It is common for almost all other objects, conservation, repair, or restoration to be carried out without restriction.\n\nThe way the objects below are handled and preventatively conserved is all based on the laws and thoughts of the most strict sect of Judaism as is recommended.\n\nBelow is a list of both types of objects with definitions and descriptions to aid in identifying and therefore knowing how any of these objects might be handled and cared for due to their uses and significance. Additionally, these descriptions will aid in understanding the care and handling methods listed below them. \n\nReferences are made to Ashkenazi, Sephardi, and Mizrachi Jews in this article. Ashkenazi Jews trace their ancestry to communities in central and eastern Europe while Sephardi Jews are those who came originally from the Iberian Peninsula. These Jews were expelled in 1492 during the Spanish Inquisition and settled in places like Greece, Turkey, and what is known as Israel today. Mizrachi Jews are those who trace their ancestry to the Arab world and Iran, as well as those whose families never left Palestine.\n\nTashmishey Kedushah is the first category of ritual objects and is defined as \"objects which carry holiness\" or \"accessories of holiness.\" The most common example of this is the Torah which is the Five Books of Moses. \n\nThe common feature of the objects in this group is that they contain words, specifically the name of God, but by extension, any words \"divinely written\" or inspired, from which the quality of holiness is derived. Because the nontextual objects surrounding these scrolls all come into contact with them, they also acquire some of the same quality of holiness. The transmission is not indefinite. It extends a maximum of two layers from the text.\n\nOther objects in this category include:\n\nBibles, prayer books, volumes of the Talmud, law codes, and commentaries, in a variety of languages, are now also included in this list. In some communities, any document of any kind written in Hebrew letters is also included. This can sometimes also include anything written in Yiddish which uses the same alphabet.\n\nTashminey Mitzvah is a category that includes most other ritual objects essential to Jewish life. Objects include:\n\nOnce holy/sacred objects (tashmishey kedusha) leave the Jewish community and enter the care of a museum, it is common practice that this group of objects is divided into two sections. The first section contains the three written texts including the Torah scroll, tefillin, and klaf for the mezuza. (These all are, or contain, biblical texts that were handwritten on parchment, in a particular script, according to rigid rules, by men who are specially trained as scribes (sofrim)). The second section includes all other material, including printed or handwritten documents, Torah mantles, ark curtains, tefillin bags, Torah ornaments, and mezuza cases (see other section below).\n\nIn terms of preventative conservation and conservation itself, Torah scrolls, tefillin, and mezuza scrolls traditionally are left as they are. According to halacha, once they are no longer in use, there is no reason for them to be kosher—in proper condition to be used—and therefore no reason why missing or abraded letters are restored or minor repairs made to the parchment unless the museum wishes to do as they see it necessary for the safety of the object. \n\nThe repair of other books and documents has often been done with the respect that would characterize any professional conservation treatment. In Judaism, the study of traditional texts is considered to be the equivalent of prayer. To restore any text, whether of aesthetic or historical value or not, to a state in which it can be studied is considered an act of merit whatever the religious or cultural affiliation of the person doing the work. This includes when it will just be on view in an exhibition.\n\nIf, for the safety of a Torah scroll, it is determined that repairs must be done to the rollers on which the scroll is mounted, traditionally, these repairs are done by a scribe, who will then remounts the parchment onto the roller in the traditional manner. It has been proven that a Torah scroll that has a tear in the parchment does best when it is kept rolled to another part of the scroll. According to tradition, if two pages are separated the two parts of the scroll are most often wrapped and stored separately. If it is considered both possible (considering the condition of the parchment) and essential to rejoin the separated leaves.\n\nWhen Torah scrolls, prayer books, or volumes of the Talmud are in the possession of a Jewish institution, it is a common practice to only photograph (or making photocopies) of open scrolls or pages only for serious study or publication. Once the books and other documents are in an archive, or museum, the rules of the institution apply. These rules are usually based on condition and value, but restrictions on casual copying do exist in all cases.\n\nIt is against halacha to open tefillin unless it is necessary. According to Jewish tradition, the removal and examination of the klaf within the tefillin only occurs when the tefillin are being repaired. The style of the writing can give clues to the registrar or conservator to the time and place in which they were written. Many institutions exhibit tefillin in damaged condition if there is a special reason such as its association with a famous person, or in an exhibit of Holocaust-related material.\n\nObjects in this group are commonly treated by any qualified conservator who will treat Jewish ritual material as anthropological material rather than as art, keeping conservation treatment to a minimum, and avoiding extensive restoration. Any ethical treatment is seen as permitted. It is noted that Conservators in private practice, who may not have the option of minimal treatment, may take on greater responsibility as a result of the above. Original fabric or trimming removed from an ark curtain have traditionally given to the owner for proper disposal. If the owner is unwilling to do this is it common for the responsibility to fall on the conservator to make other arrangements. \n\nAlterations of any kind to an object that survived the Holocaust, unless absolutely necessary to ensure its physical survival, are not made out of respect for the victims. Conservators and collections staff traditionally attempt to do the least amount of conservation on an object from the Holocaust as the damaged state is part of what is seen as telling of the history of the object. Any intervention can be seen as causing a loss of historic and perhaps even esthetic information, and the greater the intervention the greater the damage.\n\nAt Holocaust museums and other museums carrying objects from concentration camps including fragile items like prisoners’ artwork and thousands of documents, shoes, and suitcases, teeth, hair, glasses, luggage, and more, preservation is viewed as an ethical and practical issue. Conservators and registrars alike wrestle with questions about the proper role of restoration. It has been noted that people coming to see these objects don't want to see a replica of how something might have once looked, but they are looking for what it looks like because of what it, and what its owner, went through.\n\nThe concentration camps themselves are also considered artifacts to be to preserved as close to how they originally looked while still conserving them. This includes the barracks and other buildings that are exposed to natural conditions like atmosphere, rain, cold, etc. When Auschwitz was liberated by the Soviet army in January 1945, it covered 40 square kilometers, with three camps, sub camps, and an additional area that was supervised by SS administration. While some were hesitant to leave the camp as it was because of difficult memories, it was upon the request of former prisoners that the local government keep the former concentration camp intact as a memorial and the Polish government began initiatives to preserve the site, giving the Ministry of Culture and Art the authority to preserve parts of it.\n\nAlternatively, the conservation of audio or visual records (photographs, films, voice records) is different. The audio or visual recordings of past historical events that are caught as images or sound are not the original as there is no physical original. Because they are the only remaining representation of the events of the holocaust, such as the Nazi Book burnings in the Opernplatz in Berlin, this media is commonly conserved as much as possible.\n\nBecause of certain rules, restrictions, and traditions within the Jewish religion, certain ethical concerns are commonly top-of-mind when caring for sacred Judaica. \n\nMany restrictions were designed to maintain what is referred to as ritual purity for Jews who are of the \"Priest\" holy order in the Temple of Jerusalem. Today, most Jews will know if they come from that Kohen line, and one might be able to tell from the last name of Cohen, Kohn, Kahn, etc. Many of the laws and practices are still maintained in traditional Judaism. One law that might affect the conservation of objects is that Kohanim are forbidden to be in contact with dead bodies, or be under the same roof as a corpse or any part of one, except in the case of the death of a close relative. This could prevent a conservator or registrar (doing preventative conservation) from caring for objects that are of the human remain nature, but only if it bothers the professional because of his or her background.\n\nIt is the practice in some ultra-orthodox sects of Judaism that women who are menstruating do not touch any sacred texts for purity reasons. This is only a custom and is not written into Jewish law. Because of this, female conservators are able to work with the texts but remain cognizant of this custom. \n\nMaterials containing: (a) God's name, (b) Three consecutive words of a biblical verse, when written on one line with the intent to quote the verse, or (c) Other written or printed Torah ideas or laws are considered to be holy and, according to Jewish law, are not placed on the floor for any reason. Schoolwork, homework and test papers may be included in this category if they contain any of the above. All these materials are considered holy objects whether they are in Hebrew or another language, in Braille, or on microfilm.\n\nAdditionally, any materials with God's name are not, according to halacha, stacked one on top of the other in any type of museum storage. Many consider this to be disrespectful to the holy objects.\n\nWhile there are few restrictions on the exhibition of Jewish ritual objects and generally none on the examination of this material for purposes of study by anyone of any religion or culture, it is important to mention the exceptions below.\n\nIt has been proven that Torah scrolls, tefillin, and mezuza scrolls do best if exhibited in an unrolled fashion unless they are deemed no longer fit for ritual use. These objects are generally stored covered with plain cloth or tissue paper in a dark drawer or cabinet and are separated from their holders if a conservator or registrar feels it is unwise to leave them in the same place. A reason for this is if the mantle is deemed unfit to stay on the Torah scroll. It is common practice for a Tefillin that needs to be separated from its bag to be kept in a plain cloth bag for storage. Small Torah scrolls are commonly stored lying down while large ones are kept upright on a rack specifically made to hold their weight.\n\nMezuzah scrolls are traditionally kept in their cases or wrapped in tissue.\n\nGenerally, when taken out for any reason, such as to be examined by a researcher, tashmishey kedusha is treated with respect as any object that is still being used in rituals. The surface on which the objects are placed is covered with a clean cloth or appropriate non-acidic paper, and the objects are covered when not being examined. Any scrolls being examined are re-rolled up when not in use.\n\nIt has been proven that if the parchment is in good enough condition, it's best for the preservation of Torah scrolls and other rolled documents to be completely rolled front to back (or vice versa) and back to the center, once every year or two. This is most commonly done by two people who are experienced in this procedure and under the supervision of a conservator.\n\nIn many Jewish institutions, if it is decided that an object has reached the point of needing conservation, a museum registrar will connect a conservator with an expert in the type of object or in the Judaica field. This pairing of Rabbi with a conservator, a religious expert with conservator, or a professor with conservator, is known to creates a more trustworthy situation where the Museum does not have to worry that all Jewish rules are followed. If the conservator has any questions on process, or on what to do and not do, he or she can refer to the assigned expert. \n\nInstead of contacting a conservator if there are issues with a Torah, specifically involving the writing on the parchment, a registrar or curator will traditionally connect with a Sofer Stam, or a scribe in English. This expert is trained in transcribing the Torah, tefillin, and mezuzahs, and other religious writings. According to Jewish law, or halacha, they are the only people allowed to touch these texts. Scribes also assemble the Torah scrolls, sewing the sheets of parchment together and mounting them on the rollers, and make the cases for tefillin.\n\nWhen it comes to the deaccessioning process of museum objects that a conservator or other museum professional deems beyond repair, these said objects can be disposed of through destruction. They will be destroyed by the curator or his/her designee. When it comes to disposal of Judaica, there are different rules depending on whether the object is deemed still holy or longer holy and whether they are fit for ritual use, or not fit for ritual use. \n\nIf collections professionals have artifacts that are holy Jewish objects containing the name of God (tashmishey kedusha) that have been determined to be beyond conservation and the museum no longer wants them in the collection and would otherwise dispose of them, this is, according to halacha, not allowed. Jewish law instructs how these types of objects are to be \"put away\" (O.H. 154.3; Mishneh Torah, II 10.3). \n\nTraditionally, Ashkenazi Jews fulfill this requirement of \"putting away\" a holy object through burial, either in a specific part of a Jewish cemetery or, in some places, next to or along with a man of exceptional piety and learning.\n\nMany Sephardic/Mizrachi Jewish communities put these objects instead into a special room in the synagogue, called a geniza (from the root meaning “conceal,” “hide,” or “preserve”). Because this group of objects includes books that are both handwritten and printed, documents, and traditional items, the storage rooms can get quite full. The most famous geniza is in the Ezra Synagogue in Cairo. It held more than 200,000 pages, some dating to the founding of the synagogue in 882.\n\nFor the most part, objects that fall under tashmishey mitzvah are discarded when they are no longer fit for ritual use. This is because they have no intrinsic quality of holiness. even though they have value when it comes to Western aesthetics of beauty. One exception to this law is the tallit. The Shulchan Arukh, a medieval law code (first published 1565) and still considered authoritative by traditional Jews, states that tzitzit, the strings that hang from a tallit are just as holy as the tallit itself and is treated as such.\n"}
{"id": "21670292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21670292", "title": "Cybersectarianism", "text": "Cybersectarianism\n\nCybersectarianism is the phenomenon of new religious movements and other groups using the Internet for text distribution, recruitment, and information sharing.\n\nThe term, as coined by political scientist Patricia M. Thornton at the University of Oxford, describes \"a unique hybrid form of politico-religious mobilization\" adopted by a handful of syncretic qigong (气功) groups that emerged in the People's Republic of China (PRC) during the late 1980s and early 1990s, and were subjected to extreme repression following the crackdown against banned religious and spiritual organizations in 1999.\n\nCybersectarianism as an organizational form involves: \"highly dispersed small groups of practitioners that may remain largely anonymous within the larger social context and operate in relative secrecy, while still linked remotely to a larger network of believers who share a set of practices and texts, and often a common devotion to a particular leader. Overseas supporters provide funding and support; domestic practitioners distribute tracts, participate in acts of resistance, and share information on the internal situation with outsiders. Collectively, members and practitioners of such sects construct viable virtual communities of faith, exchanging personal testimonies and engaging in collective study via email, on-line chat rooms and web-based message boards.\"\n\nTransnational Chinese cybersects include the group commonly known in the West as Falun Gong (法轮功), Zhong Gong (中华养生益智功), and the Taiwan-based group founded by Suma Ching Hai, commonly referred to in the PRC as Guanyin Famen (观音法门), but rendered in English by the Ching Hai World Society as Quan Yin. Some new transnational Protestant groups also subjected to persecution in the PRC, like Eastern Lightning, have likewise taken to the internet to ensure group survival, and taken on some of the characteristics of cybersects elsewhere. Like the New Cyberreligious Movements (NCRMs) described by Karaflogka, cybersect participants rely upon computer mediated communication (CMC) in their personal religious or spiritual practice, performing cyberpilgrimages, participating in cybermeditation sessions online, and/or cyberevangelism in third-party chatrooms.\n\nSome cybersect members of groups, including Aum Shinrikyo and al Qaeda, engage in \"repertoires of electronic contention,\" using websites and e-mail to mobilize participants for protest and contention, as well as hactivism (acts of electronic disruption) and even cyberterrorism (acts of physical harm caused by the disruption of power grids, traffic control, and other systems of resource delivery and public safety).\n\nMore recently, Sunni- and Shia- affiliated hackers have attacked and counter-attacked hundreds of websites in a vast struggle over cyberspace that has been characterized as an outbreak of cybersectarianism. Alaeldin Maghaireh describes two principal types of cyber-sectarian conflict in Muslim cyberspace: \"Cyber-Islamist Advocacy,\" which consists of \"religious publications, debates, emails awareness, lectures and videos;\" and \"Islamist Hactivism,\" which involves \"cyber attacks against other religious or non-religious websites.\" Similarly, Dru C. Gladney describes how Muslim netizens in the Chinese province of Xinjiang have turned to the internet to explore and express their desires for independence with the broader, transnational Uyghur communities, culminating in what Gladney describes as a groundswell of \"cyber-separatism.\"\n\nWhen taken to the airwaves and posted on the internet, divisive sectarian language among Catholic and Protestant residents of post-agreement Northern Ireland has also been described as an outbreak of cybersectarianism by Ballymena-born BBC reporter, Declan Lawn, and others. In a similar vein, the term is also commonly used to describe the internecine internet-based partisan splintering among various factions of the Socialist Party of America, and among members of the Communist League.\nThere is some evidence to suggest that the heavy reliance of such groups on the internet, a medium that not only facilitates but also encourages user interactivity and peer-to-peer information sharing, may present serious challenges to the maintenance of internal coherence and policing of orthodoxy by a central core of leaders.\n\nCultural theorist Paul Virilio likewise described the San Diego-based UFO religious group Heaven's Gate as a cybersect, due to the group's heavy reliance on CMC as a mode of communication prior to the group's 1997 collective suicide; while Rita M. Hauck of Fort Hays University considers \"cybersect\" to be a new but widely used term that \"implies cyborgs or cybernauts with a collaborative agenda.\n"}
{"id": "57983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57983", "title": "Datura stramonium", "text": "Datura stramonium\n\nDatura stramonium, known by the English names jimsonweed or devil's snare, is a plant in the nightshade family. It is believed to have originated in Mexico, but has now become naturalized in many other regions.<ref name= 'NPGS/GRIN'></ref> Other common names for \"D. stramonium\" include thornapple and moon flower, and it has the Spanish name \"toloache\". Other names for the plant include hell's bells, devil's trumpet, devil's weed, tolguacha, Jamestown weed, stinkweed, locoweed, pricklyburr, false castor oil plant, devil's cucumber, and thornapple.\n\nDatura has been used in traditional medicine to relieve asthma symptoms and as an analgesic during surgery or bonesetting. It is also a powerful hallucinogen and deliriant, which is used entheogenically for the intense visions it produces. However, the tropane alkaloids responsible for both the medicinal and hallucinogenic properties are fatally toxic in only slightly higher amounts than the medicinal dosage, and careless use often results in hospitalizations and deaths.\n\n\"Datura stramonium\" is a foul-smelling, erect, annual, freely branching herb that forms a bush up to tall.\n\nThe root is long, thick, fibrous, and white. The stem is stout, erect, leafy, smooth, and pale yellow-green to reddish purple in color. The stem forks off repeatedly into branches, and each fork forms a leaf and a single, erect flower.\n\nThe leaves are about long, smooth, toothed, soft, and irregularly undulated. The upper surface of the leaves is a darker green, and the bottom is a light green. The leaves have a bitter and nauseating taste, which is imparted to extracts of the herb, and remains even after the leaves have been dried.\n\n\"Datura stramonium\" generally flowers throughout the summer. The fragrant flowers are trumpet-shaped, white to creamy or violet, and long, and grow on short stems from either the axils of the leaves or the places where the branches fork. The calyx is long and tubular, swollen at the bottom, and sharply angled, surmounted by five sharp teeth. The corolla, which is folded and only partially open, is white, funnel-shaped, and has prominent ribs. The flowers open at night, emitting a pleasant fragrance, and are fed upon by nocturnal moths.\n\nThe egg-shaped seed capsule is in diameter and either covered with spines or bald. At maturity, it splits into four chambers, each with dozens of small, black seeds.\n\n\"Datura stramonium\" is native to North America, but was spread to the Old World early. It was scientifically described and named by Swedish botanist Carl Linnaeus in 1753, although it had been described a century earlier by botanists such as Nicholas Culpeper. Today, it grows wild in all the world's warm and moderate regions, where it is found along roadsides and at dung-rich livestock enclosures. In Europe, it is found as a weed on wastelands and in garbage dumps.\n\nThe seed is thought to be carried by birds and spread in their droppings. Its seeds can lie dormant underground for years and germinate when the soil is disturbed. The Royal Horticultural Society has advised worried gardeners to dig it up or have it otherwise removed, while wearing gloves to handle it.\n\nAll parts of \"Datura\" plants contain dangerous levels of the tropane alkaloids atropine, hyoscyamine, and scopolamine, which are classified as deliriants, or anticholinergics. The risk of fatal overdose is high among uninformed users, and many hospitalizations occur amongst recreational users who ingest the plant for its psychoactive effects.\n\nThe amount of toxins varies widely from plant to plant. As much as a 5:1 variation can be found between plants, and a given plant's toxicity depends on its age, where it is growing, and the local weather conditions. Additionally, within a given datura plant, toxin concentration varies by part and even from leaf to leaf. When the plant is younger, the ratio of scopolamine to atropine is about 3:1; after flowering, this ratio is reversed, with the amount of scopolamine continuing to decrease as the plant gets older. In traditional cultures, a great deal of experience with and detailed knowledge of \"Datura\" was critical to minimize harm. An individual datura seed contains about 0.1 mg of atropine, and the approximate fatal dose for adult humans is >10 mg atropine or >2–4 mg scopolamine.\n\n\"Datura\" intoxication typically produces delirium, hallucination, hyperthermia, tachycardia, bizarre behavior, and severe mydriasis with resultant painful photophobia that can last several days. Pronounced amnesia is another commonly reported effect. The onset of symptoms generally occurs around 30 to 60 minutes after ingesting the herb. These symptoms generally last from 24 to 48 hours, but have been reported in some cases to last as long as two weeks.\n\nAs with other cases of anticholinergic poisoning, intravenous physostigmine can be administered in severe cases as an antidote.\n\nIn Ayurveda, datura has long been used for asthma symptoms. The active agent is atropine. The leaves are generally smoked either in a cigarette or a pipe. During the late 18th century, James Anderson, the English Physician General of the East India Company, learned of the practice and popularized it in Europe.\n\nThe Zuni people once used datura as an analgesic to render patients unconscious while broken bones were set. The Chinese also used it as a form of anesthesia during surgery.\n\nJohn Gerard's \"Herball\" (1597) states,\nWilliam Lewis reported in the late 18th century that the juice could be made into \"a very powerful remedy in various convulsive and spasmodic disorders, epilepsy and mania,\" and was also \"found to give ease in external inflammations and haemorrhoids.\"\n\nThe ancient inhabitants of what is today central and southern California used to ingest the small black seeds of datura to \"commune with deities through visions\". Across the Americas, other indigenous peoples such as the Algonquin, Navajo, Cherokee, Luiseño and the indigenous peoples of Marie-Galante also used this plant in sacred ceremonies for its hallucinogenic properties. In Ethiopia, some students and \"debtrawoch\" (lay priests), use \"D. stramonium\" to \"open the mind\" to be more receptive to learning, and creative and imaginative thinking.\n\nIn his book, \"The Serpent and the Rainbow\", Wade Davis identified \"D. stramonium\", called \"zombi cucumber\" in Haiti, as a central ingredient of the concoction vodou priests use to create zombies.\n\nThe common name \"datura\" has its origins in India, where the sister species Datura metel is considered particularly sacred — believed to be a favorite of Shiva in Shaivism.\n\nDatura prefers rich, calcareous soil. Adding nitrogen fertilizer to the soil will increase the concentration of alkaloids present in the plant. Datura can be grown from seed, which is sown with several feet between plants. Datura is sensitive to frost, so should be sheltered during cold weather. The plant is harvested when the fruits are ripe, but still green. To harvest, the entire plant is cut down, the leaves are stripped from the plant, and everything is left to dry. When the fruits begin to burst open, the seeds are harvested. For intensive plantations, leaf yields of and seed yields of are possible.\n\nThe genus name is derived from the plant's Hindi name धतूरा \"dhatūra\", ultimately from Sanskrit धत्तूर \"\" 'white thorn-apple'. \"Stramonium\" is originally from Greek \"nightshade\" and \"mad\".\n\nIn the United States, the plant is called \"jimsonweed\", or more rarely \"Jamestown weed\"; it got this name from the town of Jamestown, Virginia, where British soldiers consumed it while attempting to suppress Bacon's Rebellion. They spent 11 days in altered mental states:\nFossil seeds like seeds of \"Datura stramonium\" have been found in Pliocene strata of Belarus.\n\nAlso known as \"BURUNDANGA\" and \"ESCOPOLAMINA\" in Spanish : https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Escopolamina\n"}
{"id": "6978547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6978547", "title": "Dawson College shooting", "text": "Dawson College shooting\n\nThe Dawson College shooting occurred on September 13, 2006 at Dawson College, a CEGEP located in downtown Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The perpetrator, Kimveer Gill, began shooting outside the de Maisonneuve Boulevard entrance to the school, and moved towards the atrium by the cafeteria on the main floor. One victim died at the scene, while another 19 were injured, eight of whom were listed in critical condition, with six requiring surgery. The shooter later committed suicide by shooting himself in the head, after being shot in the arm by a police officer. It was the third fatal school shooting in Montreal, after the École Polytechnique massacre in 1989 and the shooting spree at Concordia University in 1992.\n\nAt 12:30 p.m. EDT, Gill parked his car on de Maisonneuve Boulevard near the college campus and was seen removing weapons from his trunk by bystanders. Gill briefly took a passerby hostage and forced him to carry a bag containing a fourth gun and additional ammunition. Gill opened fire at students outside on the steps of Dawson College at its rear entrance with a semi-automatic carbine, and the passerby fled the melee, leaving Gill's bag.\n\nGill then entered the school and made his way to the cafeteria, almost directly ahead of the school entrance. He positioned himself in the corner of the building, near the microwave oven, and set his bag on the floor. He loaded a pistol, fired a shot into the floor and then shot students who were standing in front of him. He then raised his weapon and ordered the remaining students to lie down on the floor. He continued shooting at students until confronted by two police officers who had been visiting the school at the time regarding an unrelated incident. The police officers entered after hearing the gunfire, and rushed to the cafeteria. Additional police officers surrounded the campus. Confronted by police officers in the school cafeteria, Gill briefly took two more people hostage. He was shot in the arm by police officer Denis Côté and then committed suicide via a gunshot wound to the head at 12:48 EDT. The police officers attempted to resuscitate him, but failed. At 1:30 p.m., police officers dragged his body outside the building, covered it with a yellow bag, then continued the evacuation and the search for possible accomplices. Authorities concluded the attack was premeditated, after a short suicide note was found on Gill's body during the autopsy.\n\nPolice cordoned off the campus area with orange police tape and swept the school for students left inside. Local radio reports placed the number of police vehicles at approximately 80 and up to 24 ambulances surrounded the building. Students and faculty were evacuated from the campus or left the vicinity of the shooting.\n\nTwo shopping centres adjacent to Dawson, Place Alexis Nihon and Westmount Square, directly linked to the Atwater metro station, were evacuated and the green line of the Montreal Metro was shut down for several hours between Lionel-Groulx and McGill. The Pepsi Forum entertainment centre, opposite the eastern corner of Dawson, was open when many of the students came running into the premises to seek refuge moments after the shooting began. Shortly afterward, the Pepsi Forum went into lockdown under the directives of the Montreal Police. Eventually, one of the Forum's entrances onto St. Catherine Street re-opened under police/security guard to allow monitored access and egress.\nA large number of the evacuees were also directed to the nearby Concordia University, where the Concordia Student Union (CSU) is located. The CSU cancelled all remaining Orientation activities, and instead used its venues to temporarily shelter the evacuated Dawson students and provide them with food, water, blankets, and phones to reach other loved ones. A coordination team was put in place from the CSU and the DSU used the Sir George Williams campus as a temporary crisis centre and offered counselling (psychologist, psychiatrist) to traumatized students and staff. Claude Dauphin (Mayor of the borough of Lachine and Vice-President of the City of Montreal executive committee) had a very close relationship with both of the student unions during the night of the events; Dauphin went to the CSU office's the night of the shooting to meet with both unions to inform them of what the city was doing, and to ask how he could help.\n\nThe police also established several phone numbers for parents and friends of the students.\n\nPolice reported that they needed a few days to process the crime scene. As a result, officials from Dawson College stated that the school would be closed until Monday, September 18, 2006, scheduled to open its doors at 11:00 a.m. and remain open until 7:00 p.m. and have an \"Open House\" feel to the day. Classes were scheduled to resume as usual on Tuesday, September 19, 2006.\n\nDuring a police search at Gill's home, an apology note to his family was found. In addition, police seized firearm accessories including holsters and manuals, including those of the firearm he used during attack; they also found a letter praising the actions of Columbine shooters Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold.\n\nGill was armed with a carbine rifle, a Glock pistol, and a shotgun. He fired sixty shots, ten of which were fired outside the school. With the exception of five shots from his pistol, including the one to kill himself, all the shots came from the rifle.\n\nThere were reports of an additional firearm in a bag that he forced a hostage to bring along as he arrived near the campus site. According to TVA's crime reporter Claude Poirier, Gill briefly held a lawyer hostage and demanded that he bring the bag containing the fourth gun and additional ammunition. When the first shots were fired and police arrived, the lawyer fled the scene and hid Gill's bag.\n\nGill had a restricted firearm license. His firearms were registered with the Canadian gun registry. The transportation, storage, and use of his firearms in the incident were not legal as per Gun politics in Canada, despite the acquisition and possession being legal.\n\nThe police confirmed the death of one victim, an 18-year-old woman who was shot in the abdomen and died on the scene. Canadian newspapers later identified the woman as Anastasia Rebecca De Sousa. The Montreal Police Service later reported that 19 other people had been wounded. One victim, who was reportedly at Dawson College to visit friends, suffered two shots to the head. He underwent intensive surgery; the doctors removed one bullet, and he remained in a coma for one week after the shooting as doctors determined whether they should try to remove the second bullet. After two weeks on a ventilator, he emerged from the coma and was recovering.\n\nGill was a 25-year-old Canadian born in Lachine, Quebec, Canada. His parents were of Punjabi descent, and moved to Saint-Laurent, Quebec from India in early 1981. The family later settled in the Fabreville area of Laval, Quebec in 1987. Kimveer attended Twin Oaks Elementary School in Laval from 1988 to 1993.\n\nGill later attended Rosemere High School, where he was remembered by teachers as quiet and unassuming. Despite early media reports, he performed well academically, and most students remember him as having friends and certainly never being bullied. Kimveer graduated from Rosemere High School in June 1998. He enrolled in Vanier College with his friend Steven Kulczycki after graduation; however, he dropped out in January 1999.\n\nGill briefly received military training from the Canadian Forces Leadership and Recruit School in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec, from January 17 to February 16, 1999. He had told his friends he wished to eventually become a mercenary. He did not complete his basic training for unknown reasons. He was deemed unsuitable for military service and was voluntarily discharged before receiving extensive weapons training.\n\nGill was a member of a rifle club and visited the Ville Saint-Pierre facility the day prior to the shooting.\n\nPolice initially looked for as many as three suspects, but Montreal Police Chief Yvan Delorme later confirmed that there was only one shooter, who was shot and killed on the scene. Many eyewitnesses described a man with a Mohawk hairstyle, wearing a black trenchcoat, black trousers with metal studs, and combat boots. The suspect carried three weapons, including a semi-automatic carbine.\nThat evening, a Sûreté du Québec spokesperson confirmed to LCN TV reporters that the shooter was a 25-year-old male, born in Québec. Police found his car, a black Pontiac Sunfire, parked close to the school, and later searched the house where he lived with his mother, seizing a computer and other belongings.\n\nAround midnight on Wednesday, police confirmed to the media that the suspect was Kimveer Gill, a 25-year-old Laval resident, a graduate from Rosemere High School. An autopsy later revealed that Gill committed suicide after being hit in the arm by police officer Denis Côté's gunfire. It was also revealed that the shooting was premeditated, as a short suicide note was then found on Gill's body.\n\nThe killer's profile was discovered on a website called VampireFreaks under the screen name \"fatality666.\" The last login was at 10:35 a.m. on the day of the shooting. The profile was subsequently restricted to registered users, and then removed entirely.\n\nThe television network TVA reported that security camera footage from Place Alexis Nihon showed Gill staking out the area as far back as August 10, more than a month before the shootings.\n\nSome student leaders criticized the immediate response of the Dawson College administration. \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" reported that \"if it hadn't been for help from the Student Union at nearby Concordia University... many of the Dawson students would have had no one to turn to for help.\" \n\nDawson's director-general Richard Filion called the student charges harsh.\n\"We did our best to evacuate the building. We were in a state of shock. We were scattered everywhere around the city,\" Filion said, noting many staff members were out on lunch break.\nDawson does have an emergency plan, he said, but it was designed with fire safety in mind.\n\nFilion announced that staff and faculty would return to the College on Friday, September 15, and that classes would resume on Tuesday, September 19, 2006. The school invited all students to join them on Monday, September 18, 2006 to meet with staff and faculty for information and support, as well as to retrieve belongings that had been left behind. It was announced that grief counseling and support services would be available on an ongoing basis.\n\nIn addition, one of the victims, 18-year-old Hayder Kadhim, who received two bullet wounds to the head and neck, challenged Prime Minister Stephen Harper to a gun control debate in a public speech on CBC in response to the shooting.\n\n\n\nAn immediate controversy arose about an article regarding the Dawson shootings by journalist Jan Wong, of the Toronto-based \"The Globe and Mail\". Three days after the event, Wong, who was born and raised in Montreal and is the daughter of Chinese immigrants, wrote a front-page piece titled \"Get under the desk\", in which she drew a link between all three school shootings in Quebec history (the École Polytechnique, the Concordia University and the Dawson College killings) and the nature of Quebec society under its protective language laws.\n\nWong suggested the fact that the three perpetrators were not old-stock French Quebecers (the shooters were Algerian, Belarusian, and Indian in descent) was related to their murderous actions since, she claimed, they were alienated from a Quebec society concerned with \"racial purity.\" Accused of \"Quebec bashing,\" Wong's writing soon created public outcry in Quebec and political condemnation. Quebec Premier Jean Charest called the article a \"disgrace\", stating that it \"betrays an ignorance of Canadian values and a profound misunderstanding of Québec.\" On September 20, 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper pronounced it \"prejudiced, absurd, irresponsible and without foundation\"; the same day, the House of Commons of Canada unanimously passed a motion requesting an apology for the column.\n\nWong's writing followed the comments of Professor Elliott Leyton, a social-anthropologist who is a widely consulted expert on serial homicide.\nInterviewed by CBC Newsworld on September 14, 2006 about the Dawson College shooting, Leyton stated that because all three such murderous rampages in Quebec involved a killer who was either an immigrant or a child of immigrants, it warranted an examination of government and societal attitudes.\n\nIn 2007, the Canadian Broadcast Standards Council faulted CKNW, a radio station in Vancouver, British Columbia for airing \"potentially dangerous information\" during the Dawson College shooting. During the incident, CKNW had simulcast content from its sister stations in Montreal which included students speaking by cellphone from inside the school. A Vancouver man complained that the content could have told the gunman where the students were. The council said that as a result of modern technology reducing geographic distance as a barrier, CKNW had breached Section 10 (coverage of violent situations) of the broadcast code. The station broadcast the decision as required, but did not air an apology.\n\nGill mentioned the song \"À Tout le Monde\" by the thrash metal band Megadeth on his blog on VampireFreaks.com on the day of the shooting. Megadeth was blamed for the shooting by many news outlets and watchdog groups as a result.\n\nLater in 2006, Megadeth performed live in Montreal, and responded to the blame that had been placed on the band and their music as a result. Band leader Dave Mustaine told the crowd:\nThe guy who went to Dawson College and shot everyone, it's terrible. Aside from the fact that what he did was wrong, we have a relationship with Montreal, and that really pissed us off.\nBefore the concert in an interview for CBC News Mustaine said: \"I was so angry that this guy would use my song, and that he would try and turn that beautiful song into something ugly and nasty. It's for those who lost their lives, and it's a gift to those who are in the process of healing (...) and Gill was not worthy of being a Megadeth fan.\"\n\nThis is the ninth mass killing to implicate the movie \"Natural Born Killers\", per the gunman's blog at vampirefreaks.com, which he called one of his favourites. At some point prior to September 20, 2006, the blog was deleted.\n\nA follow-up study conducted by the McGill University Health Centre Research Institute found that 30% of Dawson students at the time of the shooting suffered mental health consequences including post-traumatic stress disorder, major depression, alcohol dependence, and social phobia, a level twice that found in the general population. Approximately 18% of respondents developed a mental health disorder despite never having had one before.\n\n"}
{"id": "10208408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10208408", "title": "Footreading", "text": "Footreading\n\nFootreading, also known as \"solestry\" (coined from \"sole\", on the analogy of \"palmistry\"), is a method of divination by means of the foot. It involves the observation and interpretation of foot structure, skin (e.g., texture, blemishes, pigmentation) and toe nails, which are believed to reflect a person's emotions or character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28417258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28417258", "title": "Footsteps (organization)", "text": "Footsteps (organization)\n\nFootsteps is a not-for-profit organization based in New York City that provides educational, vocational, and social support to people who have left or want to leave an ultra-Orthodox or Orthodox Jewish community in the United States.\n\nAccording to its website, Footsteps provides educational, vocational, professional, social, and legal support to those seeking to enter or explore the world beyond the insular ultra-religious communities in which they were raised. Some people from the ultra-orthodox and Chasidic communities who choose to enter mainstream America may feel like cultural immigrants. They may face cultural disorientation and isolation coupled with a lack of practical and marketable skills. Founded in December 2003, Footsteps aims to assist individuals who choose to make this difficult transition. Individuals frequently refer to themselves as “off the derech”, or OTD, reclaiming the dismissive term given to leavers by members of the orthodox communities they have left.\n\nFootsteps was founded in December, 2003, by Malkie Schwartz, a former Chabad Hasid from Crown Heights, while enrolled as a student at Hunter College in New York City. According to Schwartz, 20 people showed up to the first meeting, announced on flyers around the Hunter campus and through word of mouth. Footsteps began as an informal social group and soon developed an educational study group and a sex education and relationships group, members finding they had been denied access to basic sex education instruction within the ultra-orthodox community. \n\nAs the organization grew it became a 501(c) non profit with a broad remit of support and education for ex-ultra orthodox Jewish individuals and their families. Footsteps can also provide counseling and has partnered with New York Legal Assistance Group to provide legal assistance and advice in divorce and custody cases.\n\nAs of summer 2015 Footsteps has a permanent staff of 10, a membership of over 1000 and an annual budget in excess of $1 million. Its current director is Lani Santo. The organization's program director is Chani Getter.\n\nFootsteps provides an array of services for its members. The Footsteps offices are known as \"The Space\" and are situated at an unpublicized location due to privacy concerns, contains a computer lab, library, meeting space, kitchenette, and lounge, where members can work and hang out. Members gather for various groups, events, and workshops on topics including dating and sexuality, navigating the college admissions process, career advancement and painting.\n\nFootsteps also holds several annual events, which are open to members and guests. Events include: Thanksgiving dinner, Passover Potluck, and an annual camping trip. Since 2009, \"Footsteps Celebrates\" has been held each year in June, to celebrate graduations, accomplishments, and leadership roles. During summer months, Footsteps organizes a weekly soccer game in Prospect Park. During winter, an indoor game of basketball takes place bi-weekly.\n\nFootsteps has also holds annual art shows in which it exhibits works by Footsteps members.\n\nBoard members include author Shulem Deen and businessman Steve Eisman.\n\nFootsteps has been featured in numerous media outlets, including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian, PBS, NBC, and many others. The book \"Unchosen: The Hidden Lives of Hasidic Rebels\" by Hella Winston relates the story of the founder of Footsteps and some of those who have gone through the organization as part of their journey to leave the ultra-Orthodox and Orthodox community. The National Geographic program, \"Inside Hasidism,\" included a segment about Footsteps and some of its members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16358980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16358980", "title": "Gay Block", "text": "Gay Block\n\nGay Block (born 1942) is a fine art portrait photographer, who was born in Houston, Texas. Her work is shown in books, and is collected by the Museum of Modern Art, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, the El Paso Museum of Art and the New Mexico Museum of Art.\n\nBlock had been interested in photography since she was a pre-teen, when she started taking pictures of her friends and family using a Brownie box camera. She recalls that she enjoyed taking candid photos and collaborating with her subjects.\n\nBy the 1970s she began taking pictures of members of her own affluent Jewish community in Houston. She later photographed an older Jewish Community of retirees in South Miami Beach, many of whom were Holocaust survivors. Block also photographed girls at summer camp. In 2006, Block re-photographed women who were the girls in her 1981 series from Camp Pinecliffe, twenty-five years earlier.\n\nBlock collaborated with author, Rabbi Malka Drucker, and created \"Rescuers: Portraits of Moral Courage in the Holocaust\", both a book and traveling exhibit. Block and Drucker traveled to eleven countries and photographed over 100 Christians who had helped rescue Jews during the Holocaust. The exhibit has been seen in over fifty venues in the US and abroad, including the Museum of Modern Art, NY, in 1992.\n\nIn 2003, Block's 30-year series of portraits of her mother, in photographs, video, and words, \"Bertha Alyce: Mother exPosed\", was published by University of New Mexico Press and continues as a traveling exhibit. The book, \"Bertha Alyce\", was cited as one of \"Twelve Great Books Published During The Year 2003\" by the editors of RALPH (The Review of Arts, Literature, Politics, and the Humanities). Her video of the material, \"Bertha Alyce\", was awarded People's Choice and Best Documentary by the Madrid International Gay & Lesbian Film Festival, Spain. The photographs of Bertha Alyce are not considered a conventional representation of a mother/daughter relationship; instead Block's relationship with her mother is unique. Block's documentary technique is considered by the critic to be \"assured, if reminiscent of Duane Michaels or Nan Goldin.\"\n\n\"My portraits are my truth, not necessarily the truth.\"\n\n\"Rescuers: Portraits of Moral Courage in the Holocaust\"\nMuseum of Modern Art, New York. \nCorcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. \nMuseum of Fine Arts, Houston, TX. \nUniversity of New Mexico Art Museum, Albuquerque, NM. \nHouston Center for Photography, Houston, TX.\nSee CV for a complete listing of exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "288152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288152", "title": "Great Hymn to the Aten", "text": "Great Hymn to the Aten\n\nThe Great Hymn to the Aten is the longest of one of a number of hymn-poems written to the sun-disk deity Aten. Composed in the middle of the 14th century BC, it is attributed to the 18th dynasty Pharaoh Akhenaten, who radically changed traditional forms of Egyptian religion by replacing them with Atenism.\n\nThe hymn-poem provides a glimpse of the religious artistry of the Amarna period expressed in multiple forms encompassing literature, new temples, and in the building of a whole new city at the site of present-day Amarna as the capital of Egypt. Egyptologist Toby Wilkinson said that \"It has been called 'one of the most significant and splendid pieces of poetry to survive from the pre-Homeric world.'\" Egyptologist John Darnell asserts that the hymn was sung.\n\nVarious courtiers' rock tombs at Amarna (ancient Akhet-Aten, the city Akhenaten founded) have similar prayers or hymns to the deity Aten or to the Aten and Akhenaten jointly. One of these, found in almost identical form in five tombs, is known as \"The Short Hymn to the Aten\". The long version discussed in this article was found in the tomb of the courtier (and later Pharaoh) Ay.\n\nThe 18th dynasty Pharaoh Akhenaten forbade the worship of other gods, a radical departure from the centuries of Egyptian religious practice. Finally, Akhenaten issued a royal decree that the name Aten was no longer to be depicted by the hieroglyph of a solar disc emanating rays but instead had to be spelled out phonetically. Akhenaton's religious reforms (later regarded heretical and reverted under his successor Pharaoh Tutankhamun) have been described by some scholars as monotheistic, though others consider it to be henotheistic.\n\nFrom the middle of the text:\n\nFrom the last part of the text, translated by Miriam Lichtheim:\n\nAnalyses of the poem are divided between those considering it as a work of literature, and those considering its political and socio-religious intentions.\n\nJames Henry Breasted considered Akhenaten to be the first monotheist and scientist in history. In 1899, Flinders Petrie wrote:\nIf this were a new religion, invented to satisfy our modern scientific conceptions, we could not find a flaw in the correctness of this view of the energy of the solar system. How much Akhenaten understood, we cannot say, but he certainly bounded forward in his views and symbolism to a position which we cannot logically improve upon at the present day. Not a rag of superstition or of falsity can be found clinging to this new worship evolved out of the old Aton of Heliopolis, the sole Lord of the universe.\nMiriam Lichtheim describes the hymn as \"a beautiful statement of the doctrine of the One God.\".\n\nIn 1913 Henry Hall contended that the pharaoh was the \"first example of the scientific mind.\"\n\nIn his book \"Reflections on the Psalms\", C.S. Lewis compared the Hymn to the Psalms of the Judaeo-Christian canon, as did Breasted (who broke them up into stanzas to resemble Western poems). Miriam Lichtheim commented about an alleged resemblance with Psalm 104 saying that \"The resemblances are, however, more likely to be the result of the generic similarity between Egyptian hymns and biblical psalms. A specific literary interdependence is not probable.\" Biblical scholar Mark S. Smith has commented that \"Despite enduring support for the comparison of the two texts, enthusiasm for even indirect influence has been tempered in recent decades. In some quarters, the argument for any form of influence is simply rejected outright. Still some Egyptologists, such as Jan Assmann and Donald Redford, argue for Egyptian influence on both the Amarna correspondence (especially in EA 147) and on Psalm 104.\"\nEgyptologist Dominic Montserrat discusses the terminology used to describe these texts, describing them as formal poems or royal eulogies. He views the word 'hymn' as suggesting \"outpourings of emotion\" while he sees them as \"eulogies, formal and rhetorical statements of praise\" honoring Aten and the royal couple. He credits James Henry Breasted with the popularisation of them as hymns saying that Breasted (erroneously) saw them as \"a gospel of the beauty and beneficence of the natural order, a recognition of the message of nature to the soul of man\"(quote from Breasted).\n\nMontserrat argues that all the versions of the hymns focus on the king and suggests that the real innovation is to redefine the relationship of god and king in a way that benefited Akhenaten, quoting the statement of Egyptologist John Baines that \"Amarna religion was a religion of god and king, or even of king first and then god.\"\n\nDonald B. Redford argued that while Akhenaten called himself the son of the Sun-Disc and acted as the chief mediator between god and creation, kings for thousands of years before Akhenaten's time had claimed the same relationship and priestly role. However Akhenaten's case may be different through the emphasis placed on the heavenly father and son relationship. Akhenaten described himself as \"thy son who came forth from thy limbs\", \"thy child\", \"the eternal son that came forth from the Sun-Disc\", and \"thine only son that came forth from thy body\". The close relationship between father and son is such that only the king truly knows the heart of \"his father\", and in return his father listens to his son's prayers. He is his father's image on earth and as Akhenaten is king on earth his father is king in heaven. As high priest, prophet, king and divine he claimed the central position in the new religious system. Since only he knew his father's mind and will, Akhenaten alone could interpret that will for all mankind with true teaching coming only from him.\n\nRedford concluded:\nBefore much of the archaeological evidence from Thebes and from Tell el-Amarna became available, wishful thinking sometimes turned Akhenaten into a humane teacher of the true God, a mentor of Moses, a Christlike figure, a philosopher before his time. But these imaginary creatures are now fading away one by one as the historical reality gradually emerges. There is little or no evidence to support the notion that Akhenaten was a progenitor of the full-blown monotheism that we find in the Bible. The monotheism of the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament had its own separate development—one that began more than half a millennium after the pharaoh's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22015726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22015726", "title": "Hathwa Raj", "text": "Hathwa Raj\n\nHathuwa Raj was a feudal estate belonging to Bhumihars of Baghochia dynasty. It encompassed 1,365 villages, was inhabited by more than 391,000 people, and produced an annual rental of almost a million rupees. It is located in the Saran Division of Bihar.Earlier seats of the Raj included Huseypur, Kalyanpur, Balchowra and Baghoch. The Kalyanpur chieftaincy was subjugated by the Mughal Emperor Akbar during late 16th century. The ruling dynasty has a history of over 2000 years and one of the deepest genealogy in India.\n\nSir Kishen Pratap Sahi Bahadur who was Bhumihar and Maharaja between 1874 to 1896 was an ascetic. Soon after his coronation, he set out on a pilgrimage to the shrines of Northern India. Later on he used to regularly go on traveling and pilgrimage, mostly in Benares.\n\nDue to its central location, Hathwa was the seat of the raja's residential palace and its nearby villages housed most of the key retainers of the estate.\n\nIn addition to the estate \"Kachcheri\" (office), located in the Hathwa cluster of villages, were the estate manager's bungalow, the Diwan's house, the Hathwa Eden School, the post office, the Raj dispensary, the Durga medical hall and the temple called Gopal mandir.\n\nBy the 1840s Hathwa was described as having large bazaars and bi-weekly markets. By the early nineteenth century, there were forts, palaces, and several temples constructed. An early twentieth-century account describes Hathwa as an impressive standard market, its shops offering a range of agricultural and consumer goods and its specialists providing a variety of services. The presence of schools and temples further accentuated its centrality in the locality. The estate collected ₹1400 annually as professional tax from traders stationed at Hathwa.\n\nDurga Puja was a major attraction for the Hathwa Raj family and all the family members would gather to worship their Durga at Thawe Mandir. Rituals consisted of the Maharaja traveling in a buggy to the Gopal Mandir, and then to the Sheesh Mahal for the annual durbar and onwards on an elephant for darshan of the Maiyya on Vijayadashmi. The Hathwa family still celebrates some of the customs including sacrificing buffaloes and goats during puja.\n"}
{"id": "52785451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52785451", "title": "Iran-e-No Party", "text": "Iran-e-No Party\n\nIran-e-No Party () was a short-lived fascist anticlerical party in Iran, founded by Abdolhossein Teymourtash in an attempt to form a one-party state which mobalized support for Reza Shah, but soon was replaced by its offshoot the Progress Party.\n\nThis party did not last long. It incorporated most existing parties and became unwieldy as the aspirants to office were eager to join it. Within a few months, it caused a moribund inside the party and a turmoil outside to oppose it, eventually leading to its dissolution.\n"}
{"id": "36294046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36294046", "title": "Irreligion in Pakistan", "text": "Irreligion in Pakistan\n\nIrreligion and atheism are present among a minority of mainly young people in Pakistan.\n\nIn 2005, about 1% of the population was estimated to be atheist, and by 2012, the figure rose to about 2% according to Gallup.\n\nAtheists in Pakistan face discrimination, persecution and prejudice in society. Pakistan is reported by some sources to be among the seven countries where atheism can attract capital punishment, but according to the Library of Congress of the United States, '\"there is no specific statutory law that criminalizes apostasy in Pakistan.\" On the other hand, the Pakistani government can impose the death penalty for blasphemy.\n\nInternet groups such as \"Atheist and Agnostic Alliance Pakistan\" (AAAP) website have emerged which received over 17,000 hits within 48 hours of their launch. Pakistani blogger Ayaz Nizami, the Vice President of the website and founder of realisticapproach.org, an Urdu website about atheism, is currently detained under the charges of blasphemy and could face the death penalty. This happened shortly after that former Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif supported a crackdown on blasphemous material posted on social media and described blasphemy as an \"unpardonable offence\" in March 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48792756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48792756", "title": "Islamic embroidery", "text": "Islamic embroidery\n\nEmbroidery was an important art in the Islamic world from the beginning of Islam until the Industrial Revolution disrupted traditional ways of life.\n\nEarly Islam took over societies where the embroidery of clothes for both sexes and other textiles was very popular. Both the Byzantine and Persian Sasanian empires used clothing embroidered with designs including rather large human figures as well as animals, with effects comparable to those of modern teeshirts. The exterior of the Kaaba in Mecca was already before Islam \"covered on the outside with multi-coloured textile hangings\", very likely including embroidery as their modern Islamic equivalents often have. Muhammad objected to animal designs, perhaps embroidered, he saw on cushions when visiting his wife Aisha's house. These types of design largely disappeared under Islam, though plant-based motifs often remained acceptable. \n\nThe 17th century Turkish traveller Evliya Çelebi called embroidery the \"craft of the two hands\". Because it was a sign of high social status in Muslim societies, it had long been widely popular. In cities such as Damascus, Cairo and Istanbul, embroidery was visible on handkerchiefs, uniforms, flags, calligraphy, shoes, robes, tunics, horse trappings, slippers, sheaths, pouches, covers, and even on leather belts. Craftsmen embroidered items with gold and silver thread. Embroidery cottage industries, some employing over 800 people, grew to supply these items.\nIn the 16th century, in the reign of the Mughal Emperor Akbar, his chronicler Abu al-Fazl ibn Mubarak wrote in the famous \"Ain-i-Akbari\":\n\nEmbroidery offered symbolic protection for the most highly valued objects, including babies, household possessions and things with religious significance. When in the 16th and 17th centuries in Turkey, men wore turbans as a sign of Islam, they placed their turbans under embroidered cloths.\n\nA wide variety of embroidery techniques were used across the Islamic world, with an equally broad range of materials.\n\nUighur women embroider felt skull caps, for use on their own or as the base for a turban.\n\nIn Morocco and Tunisia, satin stitch was used for items such as decorative curtains and mirror covers. A form of satin stitch present in the Bedouin societies of the Arabian Peninsula, sometimes referred to as \"khiyat al madrassa\" (\"school embroidery\"), was used for furnishings. Prior to the stitching process, a shape was drawn onto the fabric by a skilled artist. Designs incorporating natural themes such as birds or flowers were most common.\n\nSurface satin stitch, worked only on the upper surface, is a more economical but looser technique, vulnerable to wear, and so is mainly used for special occasions. In Punjab, Phulkari (flower work) shawls were however daily wear for women in the countryside, while special ones, bagh, were completely covered with embroidery and were made by maternal grandmothers for their granddaughters' weddings.\n\nChain stitch, which is adaptable and relatively easy to create, was used in Persia for Resht embroidery, with densely worked flowers and arabesques on felted woollen cloths. A type of embroidery similar to heavy chain stitch, known as \"kurar\", was previously used by Bedouin to create dresses for both men and women. It required four people, with each person carrying four threads which were either of varying colors or silver and gold.\n\nCross stitch was used across the Middle East in Syria, Jordan, Palestine and Sinai to work wedding dresses with bold embroidery in red, with triangular amulets or carnation flowers on a black background.\n\nAnother widely used technique, Herringbone stitch, was used in Afghanistan to embroider bridegroom's smocks with raised bands of red, green or white stitchery on a white background.\n\nCouching, the stitching of decorative cord on to the surface of a fabric, was used widely across the Islamic world. In Afghanistan, a velvet dress could be worked in military style with gold-coloured threads on the front, sleeves and hem. Chieftains in Montenegro could wear robes heavily couched in gold thread. In Palestine, dresses could be heavily worked in vertical panels with couched threads of metal and cotton. In Syria, jackets were couched with stylised flowers and trees. In the Northwest Frontier of Pakistan, waistcoats were sewn with a combination of appliqué panels and couched metal braid.\n\nIn Central Asia, Bokhara couching using continuous thread creates spectacular suzanis, hangings for wedding halls and bridal beds. Carnation and pomegranate motifs symbolised fertility. The technique was also used in Afghanistan and Uzbekistan for horse blankets and brazier covers.\n\nBlanket stitch, buttonhole stitch, and eyelet stitch all had the original function of strengthening the edges of textiles subject to daily wear and tear, but were adapted for decorative purposes. In North Africa and the Middle East, eyelet stitch is made using a spoked wheel pattern of stitches, or in the Algerian form without an enclosing circle. In Turkmenistan, hook and tulip motifs could be worked in buttonhole stitch. In Afghanistan, men's shirts could be embroidered with herringbone and buttonhole stitches in white silk on white cotton, in elaborate arabesques.\nWhitework, the use of white thread on a white ground, covers a variety of techniques and materials, and is used in different forms around the world. In Algeria, Kabyle women could wear whitework dresses. In Ghazni, Afghanistan, men's smocks could be embroidered with geometric whitework stitching embellished with small circular mirrors.\n\nNeedlepoint (canvaswork) was used for brightly coloured geometrical Hazara dress panels in Afghanistan.\n\nSmocking was used for men's smocks in Nuristan in the Hindu Kush, the black stitching pulling the cloth into vertical bands with zigzag, crisscross and other simple geometric patterns.\n\nTambour work, a rapid form of embroidery using a fine ari hook instead of a needle, was one of the techniques used around Bokhara in Uzbekistan for suzanis.\n\nEmbroidered motifs often carry symbolic meaning. A widespread symbol across the Islamic world (and also often found on Islamic carpets) is the tree of life, signifying birth, growth to maturity, death and rebirth. It can be shown in many forms, such as a deliberately stylised tree, sometimes flanked by pairs of birds or fruits such as pomegranates, or a vase of flowers.\n\nEmbroidery was important in traditional cultures across the Islamic world. The Industrial Revolution made colourful clothing available more quickly and more cheaply, displacing crafts such as embroidery.\n\nFor example, the masnat (enthronement) cloths of Hyderabad, India were made of velvet, hand-embroidered with glittering copper thread forming gold- and silver-coloured flowers (formerly actually of those metals). These were made for Mughal emperors and other rulers, and also for the bride and groom to sit on during weddings in Hyderabad. The technique derived from Turkey and Persia. A masnat takes between twelve days and two months to make, and can cost up to 100,000 rupees. Business declined during the 20th century, as fewer traditional cloths were ordered. Wedding providers offered a masnat as part of their service; machine-made cloths edged out handmade ones. As of 2012, only a few elderly masnat makers remained.\n\nThe embroidery researcher Sheila Paine concludes her book \"Embroidered Textiles\" by explaining that\n\nAmong the causes of embroidery's decline are politics and economics, but Paine suggests that the most powerful factor has been the education of young women. Embroidery is no longer the only way the young woman in Turkey or Baluchistan can secure her future by winning a husband; instead, she can aspire to a university degree and a career of her own. Paine argues that attempts to reinstate traditional embroidery, as with schools set up in Istanbul and Salamanca, will inevitably fail once the necessary social environment that gave handmade artefacts meaning has collapsed. In future, she states, embroidery will carry individual meaning, as in the West, and perhaps new social purposes, as with the politically significant embroidered dresses of the Palestinians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46209765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46209765", "title": "James Alexander Hamilton Irwin", "text": "James Alexander Hamilton Irwin\n\nRev. James Alexander Hamilton Irwin M.A., B.D., D.Ph., (1876–1954) was a Scots-Irish Presbyterian minister.\n\nBorn in Feeny, County Londonderry, Ireland, Irwin was educated at the local national school in Rallagh, and then at Magee College. In 1900 he went to Edinburgh University studying arts, and pursuing his clerical studies in New College.\n\nIrwin was ordained a Presbyterian minister in November 1903 in Killead Church, County Antrim, where he ministered until 1926. He was a Home Ruler who converted to the republican cause post-1916. He toured America with Éamon de Valera in the 1920s, who became a lifelong friend.\n\nIn October 1926 Irwin left Killead, and ministered in the Church of St. Michael's, Edinburgh. In 1928 he moved to St. Thomas' Leith, returning to Ireland in 1935. He lived and ministered in Lucan, County Dublin.\n\nIn 1937 Irwin was consulted by De Valera about the composition of the new Constitution of Ireland. Appointed to the Fianna Fáil-led government’s Commission on Vocational Organisation from 1939–43 and later joined the party and served on the Fianna Fáil national executive from 1945 until his death in 1954. Dr James Irwin he was offered the opportunity by Fianna Fáil to stand for the Presidency of the Irish Free State but declined to do so.\n"}
{"id": "12142753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12142753", "title": "Jankel Adler", "text": "Jankel Adler\n\nJankel Adler (26 July 1895 – 25 April 1949) was a Jewish-Polish painter and printmaker.\n\nHe was born as the seventh of ten children in Tuszyn, a suburb of Łódź. In 1912 he began training as an engraver with his uncle in Belgrade. He moved in 1914 to Germany where he lived for a time with his sister in Barmen, (now part of Wuppertal). There he studied at the college of arts and crafts with professor Gustav Wiethücher.\n\nFrom 1918 to 1919 he went back to Łódź, where he was joint founder of \"Jung Jidysz\", a group of avant-garde artists. In 1920 he returned briefly to Berlin; in 1921 he returned to Barmen, and in 1922 he moved to Düsseldorf.\n\nIn May 1922 he attended the International Congress of Progressive Artists and signed the \"Founding Proclamation of the Union of Progressive International Artists\".\n\nHe also joined Franz Seiwert and Otto Freundlich in an artists group known as the Cologne Progressives. He became a teacher at the Academy of Arts, and became acquainted with Paul Klee, who influenced his work. A painting by Adler received a gold medal at the exhibition \"German art Düsseldorf\" in 1928.\n\nIn 1929 and 1930 he went on study trips in Mallorca and other places in Spain. During the election campaign of July 1932 he published with a group of leftist artists and intellectuals an urgent appeal against the policy of the National Socialists and for communism. As a modern artist, and especially as a Jew, he faced persecution under Hitler's regime which took power in 1933. In that year, two of his pictures were displayed by the Nazis at the Mannheimer Arts Center as examples of degenerate art, and Adler left Germany, staying in Paris where he regarded his exile consciously as political resistance against the fascist regime in Germany. In the years that followed, he made numerous journeys to Poland, Italy, Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Romania and the Soviet Union. In 1937, twenty-five of his works were seized from public collections by the Nazis and four were shown in the \"Entartete Kunst\" (Degenerate Art) exhibition in Munich.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II in 1939, he volunteered for the Polish army that had been reconstituted in France; in 1941 he was discharged for health reasons and lived thereafter in Kirkcudbright in Scotland. In 1943 he moved to London. Died in Whitley Cottage in Aldbourne on 25 April 1949 at the age of 53 years and with the bitter knowledge that none of his nine brothers and sisters had survived the Holocaust.\n\nAdler was strongly influenced by Picasso and Léger. He enjoyed experimenting with materials, for example sand admixtures. He often painted Jewish subjects, and painted some few abstract compositions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4035076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035076", "title": "Jesus walking on water", "text": "Jesus walking on water\n\nJesus walking on water is one of the miracles of Jesus recounted in the New Testament. There are accounts of this event in the gospels of Matthew, Mark, and John, but is not included in the Gospel of Luke.\n\nThis story, following the miracle of the feeding of the five thousand, tells how Jesus sent the disciples by ship back to the \"other side\" of the Sea of Galilee (the western side) while he remained behind, alone, to pray. Night fell and the sea arose as the ship became caught in a wind storm. After rowing against the wind for most of the night, the disciples saw Jesus walking on the sea. They were frightened, thinking they were seeing a spirit, but when Jesus told them not to be afraid, they were reassured. After Jesus entered the ship, the wind ceased, and they arrived at land. \n\nAccording to the version in the Gospel of Matthew, Peter walked on the water towards Jesus, but he became afraid and began to sink, so Jesus rescued him.\n\nThe story of Jesus walking on water appears in the gospels of Matthew, Mark, and John, but is not included in the Gospel of Luke.\nThis episode is narrated towards the end of the Ministry of Jesus in Galilee before the key turning points halfway through the gospel narratives where Peter proclaimed Jesus as Christ and saw the Transfiguration. In all three gospels it follows the feeding of the five thousand, where Jesus had withdrawn by ship to a desert place \"belonging to\" Bethsaida after hearing of the death of John the Baptist, but was followed by the crowds who travelled on foot.\n\nAt the end of the evening, the disciples boarded a ship to cross to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, without Jesus who went up the mountain to pray alone. John alone specifies they were headed \"toward Capernaum\". During the journey on the sea, the disciples were distressed by wind and waves, but saw Jesus walking towards them on the sea. John's Gospel specifies that they were five or six kilometers away from their departure point. The disciples were startled to see Jesus, but he told them not to be afraid.\n\nMatthew's account adds that Peter asked Jesus, \"if it is you\", to tell him, or command him, to come to Jesus on the water (waters). According to the Pulpit Commentary, the word 'if' is not intended to imply any doubt on Peter's part. After Peter came down out of the ship and walked on the water, he became afraid of the storm and began to sink. He called out to Jesus for help. Jesus caught him and reproved him for his lack of faith, and led him back to the ship, whereupon the storm stopped. Matthew also notes that the disciples called Jesus the Son of God. The fact that the John account also lacks this detail suggests that this account of \"St. Peter's venture\" is a redactional addition by Matthew.\n\nIn all three accounts, after Jesus got into the ship, the wind ceased and they reached the shore. Only John's account has their ship immediately reach the shore. Matthew's and Mark's accounts end at this point, but John mentions that the next day some people from the other side of the sea that looked for Jesus, noted that the disciples left without him, but they didn't know where he went. When they came to Capernaum and asked Jesus how he came there, instead of answering the question, he told the crowd that they followed him, not because they had seen signs, but because of the free loaves they had eaten the day before, and he advised them not to seek earthly gains, but aim for a life based on higher spiritual values.\n\nThe walking on the sea episode has specific interpretations within Christian teachings and has been viewed by scholars as important due to its perceived impact on the formation of Christian ecumenical creeds, as discussed below.\n\nOne aspect of the pericope (passage) is how it highlights the relationship between Jesus and his apostles. Merrill Tenney states that the incident is in essence centered on that aspect, rather than their peril or the miracle itself. Dwight Pentecost and John Danilson state that this miracle was deliberately designed by Jesus to instruct his apostles and increase their faith. David Cook and Craig Evans note that \"of little faith\" is a somewhat common expression in Matthew (e.g. when calming the storm or regarding bread and the Pharisees just before the Confession of Peter) and may mean \"of no faith\".\n\nRichard Cassidy states that this episode sheds special light on the position of Peter who had faith in Jesus and acknowledged Jesus' extraordinary powers, and by considering to walk on water himself, wanted to share in the act of Jesus before the other disciples for he considered himself closest to Jesus. Cook and Evans note that the \"Lord Save me\" cry of Peter is similar to and in the calming the storm episode and again emphasizes the reliance of the disciples on Jesus.\n\nCook and Evans also echo Pentecost's interpretation that the detail regarding \"many stadia away\" and \"battered by the waves\" were intended to emphasize that Jesus could walk on the water far away from the shore, on a rough sea, thus establishing his dominance over nature. R.T. France has also pointed out that the details regarding the boat being a long way from the shore, and the portrayal of Peter sinking are intended as a confirmation of the depth of the water.\n\nScholars such as Ulrich Luz and separately Dale Allison view the pericope as instrumental in asserting the divinity of Jesus among early Christians. Alan Robinson sees the pericope as important in establishing the belief in the early Church that the disciples viewed Jesus as the Son of God. Dale Allison states that Matthew's presentation emphasizes that God the Father is willing to share divine power with his son and that the impact of this pericope on the affirmation of the divinity of Jesus in the ecumenical creeds is undeniable.\n\nScholars who hold that the story records actual events do so on the basis that Jesus, as Son of God, was above the laws of nature; or, in a variation, that Jesus projected an image himself while actually remaining on the shore. The meaning of the episode is held to be inherent in its miraculous nature: \"The meaning of the pericope (story) ... only has meaning ... if it is understood as relating a miraculous event which really took place\" (Leopold Sabourin, 1975).\n\nIn recent scholarship, Bart Ehrman has championed the view that in general, it is impossible to either prove or disprove supernatural events such as miracles using the historical method, for proving them would require belief in a supernatural world not amenable to historical analysis, and disproving them would require historical evidence that is usually hard to come by.\n\nStill, some scholars have held the view that while this event took place, it was not miraculous: Albert Schweitzer, for example, suggested that the disciples saw Jesus walking on the shore, but were confused by high wind and darkness; some scholars who accept this \"misperception thesis\" argue that Mark originally wrote that Jesus walked on the seashore rather than on the sea, and that John had a more accurate version. Others have held that the entire episode is a \"pious legend\" (B.H. Branscomb, 1937), based perhaps on some lost incident; perhaps Jesus waded through the surf (Vincent Taylor, 1957), or perhaps he walked on a sand bar (Sherman Johnson, 1972, J.D.M. Derrett, 1981).\n\nFinally are those scholars who regard the story as an example of \"creative symbolism\", or myth, which probably was understood by a part of the audience literally and by others allegorically. Rudolf Bultmann pointed out that the sea-walking theme is familiar in many cultures. Furthermore, the motif of walking on water was associated with kings like Xerxes or Alexander, but also rejected and satirized as humanly impossible and as proverbial for the arrogance of the rulers by Menander, Dio Chrysostom or in 2 Maccabees 5:21.\n\nOthers look for an origin in the mythic world of the Old Testament itself (Christ's victory over the waters paralleling Yahweh's defeat of the primeval Sea, representing Chaos), or within the New Testament, as an originally simple story later embellished with Hellenistic and Old Testament details. In the Hebrew Bible, God gives power over the sea, e.g. to Moses () or to Elijah ().\n\nAdela Yarbro Collins concludes that the text characterizes Jesus as Messiah and king of Israel endowed with divine properties.\n\nBiblical scholar George W. Young dismisses the naturalistic explanations, the traditional and the historical critical perspectives. He contends that these methods of exegesis rely on factual interpretations and fail to capture the full meaning of the text based on its structure. Instead, Young explores the pericope with literary-critical methods as narrative art. Young views the text as fiction, and uses tools and terms often associated with fantastic literature to analyze it.\n\nYoung analyses the pericope as the expression of three entangled, conflicting perspectives on reality: (i) the \"conventional reality\" based on sensory perception; (ii) the \"impossible\" vision of Jesus resulting in the astonishment of the observers; (iii) the narrator's metaphysical comment in Mark 6:52 identifying Jesus as the Son of God.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1009795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009795", "title": "Kumina", "text": "Kumina\n\nKumina is an Afro-Jamaican religion and practices that include secular ceremonies, dance and music that developed from the beliefs and traditions brought to the island by BaKongo enslaved people and indentured labourers, from the Congo region of West Central Africa, during the post-emancipation era. Is mostly associated with the parish of St. Thomas in the east of the island. However, the practice spread to the parishes of Portland, St. Mary and St. Catherine, and the city of Kingston.\n\nKumina also gives it name to a drumming style, developed from the music that accompanied the spiritual ceremonies, that evolved in urban Kingston. The Kumina drumming style has a great influence on Rastafari music, especially the Nyabinghi drumming, and Jamaican popular music. Count Ossie was a notable pioneer of the drumming style in popular music and it continues to have a significant influence on contemporary genres such as reggae and dancehall.\n\nThe \"Kumina riddim\" is a dancehall riddim produced by Sly & Robbie in 2002. It has featured in recordings of over 20 artists including Chaka Demus & Pliers and Tanya Stephens.\n\nSpirits are separated into sky bound and earth bound deities. Oto King Zombi is the Supreme Creator. Other sky bound spirits of Kumina are Obei and Shango. Earth bound spirits in Kumina are found in the Old Testament David, Ezekiel, Moses, Cain, and Shadrak. Ancestral spirits are also important in Kumina. The term used to refer to these ancestral spirits is \"Zombi\", the term originates from the Kikongo word \"dzambi\". Only a person who has been possessed by a Zombi can become a Zombi after death. A Zombi had the privilege of returning to earth to preside over ceremonies and possess dancers and performing other duties. Unlike people who had been possessed by Zombies, those who had not been possessed would simply die and ascend to Oto King Zombi without chance of returning to earth.\n\nOrganization of Kumina communities follows the general local character of African religions in Jamaica. Kumina communities are small family based communities or nations. Some nations include \"Mondongo\", \"Moyenge\", \"Machunde\", \"Kongo\", \"Igbo\", and \"Yoruba\". People from Kumina families are given the title \"Bongo\". Marrying into a Bongo family is one avenue to become a part of a Kumina nation; special initiation is the other avenue. Kumina nations are led by a \"King\" and \"Queen\". Imogene \"Queenie\" Kennedy AKA Queenie III (c1920-1998) was a well-known Kumina Queen in the 20th century, born in St Thomas in the late 1920s she later moved to Kingston and then Waterloo, St Catherine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2251245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2251245", "title": "Latin Patriarchate of Alexandria", "text": "Latin Patriarchate of Alexandria\n\nThe Latin Patriarchate of Alexandria was a nominal Patriarchate of the Latin church on the see of Alexandria in Egypt, that had no pastoral connection to the city of Alexandria.\n\nAlexandria, the ancient great port of Egypt and a first-rank Mediterranean metropolis in the Hellenistic world, was an influential early Christian diocese since 30 AD, founded and held by Saint Mark the Evangelist. The Council of Nicaea ranked it after Rome, while the Greek fathers of the Council of Chalcedon tried in canon 28 to demote it, giving it third place after Constantinople, although Pope Leo I of Rome rejected this canon. However, following the same Council, the patriarchate was claimed by two parties, namely, a Greek Patriarch representing adherence to the dogmatic definitions of Chalcedon and a Coptic Miaphysite Patriarch rejecting them. \n\nWhile part of the Byzantine Empire and under Islamic domination, the Chalcedonian patriarch always followed the Byzantine rite, while the non-Chalcedonian followed the Coptic rite. The Greek Patriarch of Alexandria remained in communion with the See of Rome despite the rupture of communion between Rome and Constantinople in 1054. In fact, the Bishop of Rome and Greek Bishop of Alexandria commemorated each other in their diptychs until the early 14th century. Thus, while in 1215, during the pontificate of Pope Innocent III, there were Latin Patriarchs, rivaling or replacing the Greek ones in the formerly Crusader held cities of Antioch, Constantinople, and Jerusalem, Greek Patriarch Mark III of Alexandria was invited and sent representatives to participate in the Fourth Lateran Council. \n\nOnly in the early 14th century is there a record of a Latin Patriarch of Alexandria. The title was merely titular since he never occupied the See. His patriarchal cathedral in Rome was the papal Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls. Many incumbents would hold residential (arch)episcopal posts of various ranks in Catholic countries, and even (earlier and/or later) other Titular Latin patriarchates (Jerusalem, Constantinople).\n\nThe titular see would have its share of disputed nominations during the papal 'Babylonian Exile' in Avignon.\n\nSince 1724, the Melkite Catholic Patriarchate of Antioch and All the East holds the title of Patriarch of Alexandria. In 1895, the Coptic Catholic Patriarchate of Alexandria was established out of the Catholic Apostolic Vicariate of Alexandria. Thus, there remains a Patriarch of Alexandria for the Catholic Church. \n\nThe Titular Latin Patriarchate was left vacant in 1954 and then abolished in 1964.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56237642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56237642", "title": "List of Buddhist viharas in Bangladesh", "text": "List of Buddhist viharas in Bangladesh\n\nThis is a list of viharas in Bangladesh.\n"}
{"id": "12098706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12098706", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Vietnam", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Vietnam\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Vietnam comprises solely a Latin rite hierarchy, joint in a national episcopal conference, comprising three metropolitan archdioceses and 23 suffragan dioceses.\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic, (missionary) pre-diocesan or other exempt jurisdictions.\n\nThere are no titular sees, all defunct jurisdictions have current Latin successor sees.\n\nThere formally is an Apostolic Delegation to Vietnam as papal diplomatic representation (Non-Residential, below embassy-level), but it is vested in the Apostolic Nunciature to Singapore in its national capital Singapore.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157118", "title": "Living Enrichment Center", "text": "Living Enrichment Center\n\nLiving Enrichment Center (LEC) was a New Thought organization and retreat center in the U.S. state of Oregon. It was founded in the farmhouse of senior minister Mary Manin Morrissey of Scholls, Oregon, in the mid-1970s; the church moved to a 94,500 square foot (8,800 m²) building on a forested area of 95 acres (384,000 m²) in Wilsonville in 1992. Over the course of its existence, the congregation grew from less than a dozen to an estimated 4,000, making it the biggest New Thought church in the state. Living Enrichment Center maintained an in-house bookstore, retreat center, café, kindergarten and elementary school, and an outreach television ministry.\n\nLiving Enrichment Center closed in 2004 as a result of a $10.7 million financial scandal. Edward Morrissey pleaded guilty to money laundering and using church money for the personal expenses of himself and his wife. He was sentenced to two years in federal prison. He was released in early 2007. Living Enrichment Center dissolved in 2004, from which several ministries emerged including New Thought Center for Spiritual Living., Celebration Church and Whole Life Center in Lake Oswego.\n\nThe origins of the Living Enrichment Center were in a church called The Truth Center that Mary Manin Morrissey and her first husband started in the living room of their small farm in rural Oregon in 1974. The church was not successful, and in 1979 Morrissey and her husband took the family and their ministry on the road, offering workshops on building self-esteem in churches around the country. After a year on the road, Morrissey founded a church in the Odd Fellows Hall in Beaverton, Oregon, after she felt she had received divine guidance to start a ministry. A church management consultant advised Morrissey and her husband to name the church after what they aimed to do; as they aimed to enrich people's lives, they called themselves the Living Enrichment Center.\n\nIn November 1992, Living Enrichment Center acquired the former Callahan Center, in Wilsonville, which consisted of a three-level building on a lot. The lot also included 13 cabins, with over 70 rooms, which were used for spiritual retreats conducted via the church's sister organization, Namaste Retreat Center. By 1997 the church were engaged in a campaign via a Portland Sunday TV message, advertising, and outreach programs, to grow the local congregation by an extra 200 members.\n\nLiving Enrichment Center maintained an in-house bookstore, retreat center, cafe, kindergarten and elementary school, and an outreach television ministry.\n\nThe Namaste Retreat and Conference Center was started in 1994, and by 1996 the annual revenue was $1.5 million with an operating surplus. The retreat center took its name from the sanskrit word namaste. In its literature, Namaste Retreat Center billed itself as \"Oregon's leading spiritual retreat center.\" Many personalities within the New Age and New Thought communities conducted retreats at Namaste Retreat Center. Retreat leaders included: Marianne Williamson, Wayne Dyer, Deepak Chopra, Jean Houston, Barbara Marx Hubbard, Shakti Gawain, Stanislav Grof, and Arun Gandhi.\n\nCristofori School was a kindergarten through third grade school that was headquartered at Living Enrichment Center during the mid-to-late 1990s. Students were taught the usual age-appropriate lessons in math, reading, writing, etc. Students were also exposed to the ecumenical philosophy of New Thought, which was the governing philosophy of Cristofori's governing institution Living Enrichment Center.\n\n\"In April of (1997), LEC began a 1/2 hour weekly taped television show on commercial TV in Los Angeles, San Francisco Bay area, including Sacramento, Phoenix, Dallas, Fort Worth, and Seattle. LEC committed to spend $120,000 on this aspect of the ministry. It is anticipated that the broadening of this ministry will develop additional revenue from the sale of products and be an additional source of contribution revenue, taking the pressure off the local congregation and the retreat center to support the operation of the Center. Currently, 15% of the contributions LEC receives (approximately $300,000 a year) comes from outside the Portland metropolitan area.\" \n\nLife Keys was a name brand created by Rev. Morrissey. Life Keys produced audio tapes, CDs, and video cassettes of Mary Morrissey's Sunday talks. The videos were broadcast on many Public-access television cable TV stations across the West Coast of the United States. The audio and video cassettes were also available for purchase in Living Enrichment Center's Living Bookends Bookstore. Often, audio cassettes of a Sunday service were available immediately after service. The audio tapes were also available via a mail subscription. The audio cassette and CD recordings produced by Life Keys were sold to an audience from all over the world. Though most of the talks in the Life Keys series were delivered by Mary Manin Morrissey, some were recordings of talks given by visiting speakers such as Arun Gandhi, Marianne Williamson, and Wayne Dyer.\n\n\"Audio products fall into three categories: audio books, audio albums on a particular subject, and a weekly tape of Mary's Sunday talk. We have two audio publishers who have expressed interest in Mary's products. It is anticipated that we will self-publish the weekly message which, through subscription and the small group process, would become the basis for the national outreach. Currently the weekly message subscriptions are approximately $260/year. The weekly message will also be available soon by subscription on the Internet at a price of $3/week. This has the advantage of delivering the talk on audio with no additional cost for duplication, shipping and handling.\"\n\nThe \"Life Keys\" series discontinued in 2004 when Living Enrichment Center filed for bankruptcy and closed its doors. Mary Manin Morrissey's last talk distributed in the \"Life Keys\" series was entitled \"The Right Questions to Ask\" and was recorded on August 1, 2004. It was also Morrissey's last talk as Senior Minister of Living Enrichment Center. In this last talk, Morrissey says her life is in \"disarray\", saying that her husband is in a mental hospital for depression and that she herself needs to take a break. During part of the talk she seems to be on the verge of tears.\n\nIn early 2004, Mary Morrissey was sued by members of her congregation for unpaid loans. It was reported that the loans were often made personally to Morrissey, and that the personal finances of herself, her husband, Edward Morrissey, and Living Enrichment Center had not been treated separately. In an e-mail to \"Willamette Week\", Steve Unger, Morrissey's attorney, wrote that the Morrisseys had committed commingling, and that \"the finances of [the] LEC, New Thought Broadcasting, Mary Morrissey and Ed Morrissey were treated not separately, but as a kind of 'financial family.'\" By the summer of 2004, the sum total of the debt was reported by \"Willamette Week\" and \"The Oregonian\" as totaling more than $20 million. Throughout the month of June, Mary Morrissey and Harry Morgan Moses conducted a series of talks called \"Standing Firm While Your World is Shaking\", for a \"love offering\" of $15 per class or $100 for the series. On July 14, 2004, Living Enrichment Center held \"Calling Forth a Miracle: A Benefit for Living Enrichment Center with Very Special Guests\" and declared 2004–2005 as \"The Year of the Miracle\".\n\nOn April 17, 2005, Jeff Manning of \"The Oregonian\" wrote, \"Edward Morrissey, husband of embattled former church pastor Mary Manin Morrissey, admitted in federal court Wednesday that he defrauded members of his wife's church in soliciting $10.7 million in loans. He pleaded guilty to one count of money laundering, a felony that could get him 36 months or more in federal prison... Edward Morrissey's plea will probably not put to rest lingering questions over the deal that the Morrisseys cut with federal and state officials. Some former Living Enrichment parishioners were angered that Mary Morrissey eluded federal charges. Mary Morrissey leaned hard on parishioners to make the loans, some said, but she has claimed she had no knowledge of her husband's use of that money... Mary Morrissey agreed to contribute 25 percent of her disposable income to retiring the debt until parishioners are fully repaid or for the next 20 years, whichever comes first.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2005, Bend.com reported that a settlement deal between the Morrisseys and the Department of Consumer and Business Services had been reached: \"As part of this settlement, neither of the Morrisseys may offer or sell securities. Further, Edward Morrissey agreed to plead guilty to a single federal count of money laundering. The plea agreement reached between Edward Morrissey and the U.S. Attorney's Office calls for the government to recommend a 36-month sentence, but that recommendation is not binding on the court.\"\n\nAfter a year in prison at Terminal Island, in August 2006, Edward Morrissey was transferred to a halfway house in Seattle, Washington. Morrissey was released from the halfway house on February 2, 2007. In the August 28, 2006, edition of the \"Wilsonville Spokesman\", editor Curt Kipp wrote that Mary Morrissey has repaid $24,000 of the debt.\n\nIn a letter to \"Willamette Week\" in 2004, the lawyer for Mary Morrissey's then-husband, Edward Morrissey, admitted that the couple had committed commingling. Mary Manin Morrissey's second ex-husband, Edward Morrissey, pleaded guilty to money laundering and using church money for the personal expenses of himself and his wife, and spent time in federal prison. The \"Seattle Times\" reports that the Morrisseys committed \"financial improprieties\" and that some former members of Living Enrichment Center were upset with the deal the Morrisseys struck with federal prosecutors. Former congregant John Trudel of Newberg, Oregon, is reported to have loaned the church $100,000 between 2000 and 2002. Trudel is quoted as saying that church money was being diverted. \"Willamette Week\" wrote that Steve Unger, lawyer for the Morrisseys, admitted that the couple had committed commingling. \"The Oregonian\" writes that Mary Morrissey signed a consent agreement with state securities regulators, agreeing to repay $10.7 million to her former congregation, but she is in default and that at the rate Mary Morrissey is making repayment it will take her 300 years to repay congregation debt in full. KATU writes that the debt may never be repaid. \"Wilsonville Spokesman\" has reported that the amount of money Mary Morrissey has repaid would amount to less than half a penny per dollar of debt.\n\n\"KATU\" reported that Edward Morrissey agreed to plead guilty to money laundering on the condition that Mary Manin Morrissey not be charged with a crime. \"The Oregonian\" wrote in 2009 that Mary Morrissey signed a consent agreement agreeing to repay the debt, but that she is in default of the consent agreement.\n\nLiving Enrichment Center abandoned the Wilsonville facilities in June 2004. The church moved to Valley Theatre, a movie theater in Beaverton. The first service at Valley Theatre was held on July 4, 2004. On August 5, 2004, in an e-mail to her congregation, Morrissey announced her resignation as Senior Minister, President, and Board Member of Living Enrichment Center. The final service was held on August 29, 2004, at Valley Theatre.\n\nThree separate ministries grew out of the demise of Living Enrichment Center. \"Friends of Mary\", an organization established by Mary Morrissey, eventually evolved into \"Life Soulutions\". Several other former LEC ministers established New Thought Ministries of Oregon. Barry Dennis, a former LEC musician, established \"Celebration Church\".\n\nIn 2006, Curt Kipp of the Wilsonville News Blog wrote that the abandoned Living Enrichment Center site at Wilsonville was reported to have been sold to a developer, with speculation that it would be demolished for redevelopment. In 2013, Josh Kulla of the Wilsonville Spokesman wrote that the building that stood on the Living Enrichment Center site had been demolished and the plot of land was slated to be developed as part of the future expansion of the Villebois housing development.\n\nMary Manin Boggs Morrissey Dickey was the founder (along with her then-husband Haven Boggs) and senior minister of Living Enrichment Center. Edward Morrissey married Mary Manin Boggs (thereafter known as Mary Manin Morrissey) in the mid-1990s, and shortly after the marriage Edward Morrissey became the CFO of the church. In the October 16, 2006, \"Oregonian\" article \"Forgiveness, for minister, starts with self\", staff writer S. Renee Mitchell indicated that Mary Morrissey and Ed Morrissey have divorced. Mitchell wrote, \"When the smoke cleared, Morrissey — who had once cozied up to the Dalai Lama and other world spiritual leaders — was divorced, houseless and in debt for more than $10 million.\"\n\nAfter a year in prison at Terminal Island, in August 2006, Edward Morrissey was transferred to a halfway house in Portland, Oregon. He was released from there on February 2, 2007. Both Mary Manin Morrissey and Edward Morrissey have injunctions against them, prohibiting them from heading or being agents in nonprofit organizations. Both are also prohibited from selling securities.\n\nMary Morrissey is the author of \"Building Your Field of Dreams\" which chronicles Morrissey's realization of her dream to create a ministry, and \"No Less Than Greatness, The Seven Spiritual Principles that Make Love Possible\" Mary Manin Morrissey also appears in \"The Moses Code\". Mary Morrissey has also authored several audio programs, including the popular co-produced audio, \"The Eleven Forgotten Laws\" with Bob Proctor. Morrissey appeared in the movie \"The Inner Weigh\", written and directed by Dave Smiley. The movie is about tapping into the power of one's subconscious mind to create the body and the life that one wants.\n\nMary Manin Morrissey also operated two companies, \"Life Soulutions\" and \"Evolving Life Ministries\". \"The Oregonian\" reported in 2007, that the organization of Life Soulutions has prompted questions from the state of Oregon because Morrissey's partner, Karen Hanzlik, in the venture receives as much as 40% of revenue, meaning that this portion is not required to be diverted to the restitution fund. \"State officials have asked Morrissey for documents detailing the corporate structure of LifeSoulutions,\" writes \"The Oregonian\". \"Morrissey told them that on the advice of an attorney, there are no such documents. Nothing was put in writing. 'We're researching the law and considering our legal options,' Whang said. 'But it is a very unusual situation.'\" KATU, Portland's ABC affiliate, reports that because Mary Morrissey was permanently prohibited from holding the position of Officer, Financial Manager or Financial Fiduciary for any charitable or religious non-profit entity, her current companies, Life Soulutions, Evolving Life Ministries, and her church in Lake Oswego, Oregon, are operated as for-profit entities. KATU also reports that in an interview Morrissey was evasive about her finances, but the news team tracked online donations to Morrissey's business, discovering they make their way to a Portland mail box controlled by Morrissey. Investigators from the state of Oregon want to make sure that Morrissey is not diverting money from her income, as a stipulation of her plea bargain with the state was that a portion of her income must be used to repay her debt to her former congregation. KATU reported in 2007, that Morrissey has repaid only $74,000 since her plea bargain was struck in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "739238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739238", "title": "Minister (Christianity)", "text": "Minister (Christianity)\n\nIn Christianity, a minister is a person authorized by a church, or other religious organization, to perform functions such as teaching of beliefs; leading services such as weddings, baptisms or funerals; or otherwise providing spiritual guidance to the community. The term is taken from Latin \"minister\" (\"servant\", \"attendant\"), which itself was derived from \"minus\" (\"less\").\n\nIn the Catholic Church, Anglican, Oriental Orthodox, Nordic Lutheran, and Eastern Orthodox churches, the concept of a priesthood is emphasised. In other Christian denominations, such as the Baptist, Congregationalist, Methodist, Presbyterian and Reformed churches, the term \"minister\" usually refers to members of the ordained clergy who leads a congregation or participates in a role in a parachurch ministry; such a person may serve as a presbyter, pastor, preacher, bishop, chaplain or elder.\n\nWith respect to ecclesiastical address, many ministers are styled as \"The Reverend\"; however, some use \"Pastor\" or \"Father\" as a title.\n\nThe Church of England defines the ministry of priests as follows:\nMinisters may perform some or all of the following duties:\n\nDepending on the denomination the requirements for ministry vary. All denominations require that the minister has a sense of calling. In regards to training, denominations vary in their requirements, from those that emphasize natural gifts to those that also require advanced tertiary education qualifications, for example, from a seminary, theological college or university.\n\nOne of the clearest references is found in , which outlines the requirements of a bishop (\"episkopos\": Koine Greek , interpreted as elder by some denominations):\n\nThe Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, Lutheran and some Methodist churches have applied the formal, church-based leadership or an ordained clergy in matters of either the church or broader political and sociocultural import. The churches have three orders of ordained clergy:\n\n\nUntil the Reformation, the clergy were the first estate but were relegated to the secular estate in Protestant Northern Europe. After compulsory celibacy was abolished during the Reformation, the formation of a partly hereditary priestly class became possible, whereby wealth and clerical positions were frequently inheritable. Higher positioned clergy formed this clerical educated upper class.\n\nHigh Church Anglicanism and High Church Lutheranism tend to emphasise the role of the clergy in dispensing the Christian sacraments. The countries that were once a part of the Swedish Empire, i.e. Finland and the Baltics, have more markedly preserved Catholic traditions and introduced far less Reformed (that is, Calvinistic or Zwinglian) theology and hence the role of bishops, priests and deacons are notably more visible.\n\nBishops, priests and deacons have traditionally officiated over of acts worship, reverence, rituals and ceremonies. Among these central traditions have been Baptism, Confirmation, Penance, Anointing of the Sick, Holy Orders, marriage, the Mass or the Divine Service, and coronations. These so-called \"social rituals\" have formed a part of human culture for tens of thousands of years. Anthropologists see social rituals as one of many cultural universals.\n\nThe term \"rector\" (from the Latin word for \"ruler\") or vicar may be used for priests in certain settings, especially in the Roman Catholic and Anglican traditions.\n\nIn the Episcopal Church in the United States, a parish, which is responsible for its own finances, is overseen by a rector. A bishop is nominally in control of a financially assisted parish but delegates authority to a vicar (related to the prefix \"vice\" meaning substitute or deputy).\n\nThe term \"pastor\" means \"shepherd\" and is used several times in the New Testament to refer to church workers. Many Protestants use the term as a prenominal title (e.g., Pastor Smith) or as a job title (like Senior Pastor or Worship Pastor).\n\nThe English word \"clergy\" derives from the same root as \"clerk\" and can be traced to the Latin \"clericus\" which derives from the Greek word \"kleros\" meaning a \"lot\" or \"portion\" or \"office\". The term Clerk in Holy Orders is still the technical title for certain Christian clergy, and its usage is prevalent in canon caw. Holy Orders refer to any recipient of the Sacrament of Ordination, both the Major Orders (bishops, priests and deacons) and the now less known Minor Orders (Acolyte, Lector, Exorcist and Porter) who, save for certain reforms made at the Second Vatican Council in the Roman Catholic Church, were called clerics or \"Clerk\", which is simply a shorter form of \"Cleric\". Clerics were distinguished from the laity by having received, in a formal rite of introduction into the clerical state, the \"tonsure\" or \"corona\" (crown) which involved cutting hair from the top and side of the head leaving a circlet of hair which symbolised the \"Crown of Thorns\" worn by Christ at His crucifixion.\nThough Christian in origin, the term can be applied by analogy to functions in other religious traditions. For example, a rabbi can be referred to as being a clergy member.\n\n\"Parson\" is a similar term often applied to ordained priests or ministers. The word is a variant on the English word \"person\" from the Latin \"persona\" (\"mask\") used as a legal term for one having jurisdiction.\n\nThe similar words \"Dominie\", \"Dominee\" and \"Dom\", all derived from the Latin \"domine\" (vocative case of Dominus \"Lord, Master\"), are used in related contexts.\nDominie, derived directly from Dutch, is used in the United States, \"Dominee\", derived from Dutch via Afrikaans is used in South Africa as the title of a pastor of the Dutch Reformed Church. In Scottish English dominie is generally used to mean just schoolmaster. In various Romance languages, shortened forms of Dominus (\"Dom, Don\") are commonly used for Catholic priests (sometimes also for lay notables as well) for example Benedictine Monks are titled \"Dom\", as in the style \"Dom Knight\".. Dom or Dominus, as well as the English equivalent, Sir were often used as titles for priests in England up to the 17th century who held Bachelor of Arts degrees.\n\nChaplain as in English or almoner (preferred in many other languages) or their equivalents refer to a minister who has another type of pastoral \"target group\" than a territorial parish congregation (or in addition to one), such as a military units, schools and hospitals.\n\nThe Spanish word Padre (\"father\") is often informally used to address military chaplains, also in English and Portuguese (Brazil).\n\nElders (in Greek, πρεσβυτερος [presbuteros]; see Presbyter) in Christianity are involved in the collective leadership of a local church or of a denomination.\n\n\nLay people, volunteers, pastoral agents, community leaders are responsible to bring teaching the gospel in the forefront helping the clergy to evangelize people. Agents ramify in many ways to act and be in touch with the people in daily life and developing religious projects, socio-political and infrastructural.\n\n\nMonsignor is an ecclesiastical title of honor bestowed on some priests.\n\n\n\n\nThere are contrasting views on the level of compensation given to ministers relative to the religious community. There is often an expectation that they and their families will shun ostentation. However, there are situations where they are well rewarded for successfully attracting people to their religious community or enhancing the status or power of the community.\n\nThe ordination of women has increasingly become accepted within many global religious faith groups, with some women now holding the most senior positions in these organizational hierarchies. There is disagreement between various global church denominations, and within membership of denominations, regarding whether women can be ministers.\n\nThere was notable contention over the issue of ordination of practicing homosexuals in the 1980s within the United Church of Canada, and in the 1990s and early 21st century within the Presbyterian Church USA. The Episcopal Church, the American branch of the worldwide Anglican Communion, was divided over the issue of ordination of practising homosexuals. This conflict severely damaged relationships between Anglicans in North America and in the third world, especially Africa and southeast Asia, and has caused a schism in the American Anglican church.\n\nIn the majority of churches, ordained ministers are styled \"The Reverend\". However, as stated above, some are styled \"Pastor\" and others do not use any religious style or form of address, and are addressed as any other person, e.g. as Mr, Ms, Miss, Mrs or by name.\n\nIn Anglican churches the style for ordained ministers varies according to their office, as below.\n\n\nIn all cases, the formal style should be followed by a Christian name or initial, e.g. the Reverend John Smith, or the Reverend J. Smith, but never just the Reverend Smith.\n\nThese are formal styles. In normal speech (either addressing the clergy or referring to them) other forms of address are often used. For all clergy this may include the titles \"Father\" (male) or \"Mother\" (female), particularly in the Anglo-Catholic tradition, or simply the appropriate secular title (Mister, Doctor, etc.) for that person, particularly in the evangelical tradition; it is also increasingly common to dispense with formal addresses and titles in favour of verbal address simply by given name. Bishops may be addressed as \"My Lord\", and less formally as \"Bishop\". Similarly, archbishops may be addressed as \"Your Grace\", and less formally as \"Archbishop\". The titles \"My Lord\" and \"Your Grace\" refer to the places held by these prelates in the Church of England within the order of precedence of the state; however, the same titles are also extended to bishops and archbishops of other Anglican churches, outside England.\nAs Anglicanism represents a broad range of theological opinion, its presbyterate includes priests who consider themselves no different in any respect from those of the Roman Catholic Church, some parishes and dioceses in \"Low Church\" or Evangelical circles prefer to use the title \"presbyter\" or \"minister\" in order to distance themselves from the more sacrificial theological implications which they associate with the word \"priest\". While priest is the official term for a member of the presbyterate in every Anglican province worldwide, the ordination rite of certain provinces (including the Church of England) recognizes the breadth of opinion by adopting the title \"The Ordination of Priests (also called Presbyters)\".\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church the form of address depends on the office the person holds, and the country in which he is being addressed as they are usually identical to the titles used by their feudal or governmental equals. In most English-speaking countries the forms of address are:\nIn France, secular priests (diocesan priests) are addressed \"Monsieur l'Abbé\" or, if a parish priest, as \"Monsieur le Curé\". In Germany and Austria priests are addressed as \"Hochwürden\" (meaning \"very worthy\") or with their title of office (Herr Pfarrer, i.e. Mr. Parson). in Italy as \"Don\" followed by his name (e.g. \"Don Luigi Perrone\").\n\nReligious priests (members of religious orders) are addressed \"Father\" in all countries (Père, Pater, Padre etc.).\n\nUp until the 19th century secular clergy in English-speaking countries were usually addressed as \"Mister\" (which was, in those days, a title reserved for gentleman, those outside the gentry being called by name and surname only), and only priests in religious orders were formally called \"Father\". In the early 19th century it became customary to call all priests \"Father\".\n\nIn the Middle Ages, before the Reformation, secular priests were entitled as knights, with the prefix \"Sir\". See examples in Shakespeare's plays like Sir Christopher Urswick in Richard III. This is closer to the Italian and Spanish \"Don\" which derives from the Latin \"Dominus\" meaning \"Lord;\" in English, the prefix \"Dom\" is used for priests who are monks, a prefix which was spelled \"Dan\" in Middle English. The French \"Monsieur\" (like the German \"Mein Herr\", the Italian \"Signor\" and the Spanish \"Señor\") also signifies \"My Lord\", a title commonly used in times past for any person of rank, clerical or lay.\n\nThe term \"minister\" is used by the Catholic Church in some cases, such as the head of the Franciscans being the Minister General.\n\nIn the Greek-Catholic Church, all clergy are called \"Father\", including deacons, who are titled \"Father Deacon\", \"Deacon Father\", or simply \"Father\". Depending on the institution, seminarians may be titled \"Brother\", \"Brother Seminarian\", \"Father Seminarian\" or simply \"Father\". Their wives are usually addressed as \"presvytera\", \"matushka\" or \"khourriyye\" as in the Orthodox world and also by their first names. Greek-Catholic Patriarchs are addressed as \"Your Beatitude\". Eastern clergy are usually addressed by their Christian or ordination name, not their surname.\n\nThe form of address for Orthodox clergy varies according to order, rank and level of education. The most common forms are the following:\n\nThe form of address to the clergy of the Armenian Apostolic Church (belongs to the family of Oriental Orthodox Churches ) is almost the same.\n\n"}
{"id": "1531026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1531026", "title": "Nele Kantule", "text": "Nele Kantule\n\nNele Kantule Iguibilikinya (1868–1944) was a famous chief and medicine man of the Kuna indigenous tribe of Panama and Colombia. \n\nHe was born in Putorgandi, in what is today Ustupu Island, Panama. He was a leader of the Kuna from early in the twentieth century until his death.\n\nHis life was described by Erland Nordenskiöld, in his 1938 book on the Kuna, \"An historical and ethnological survey of the Cuna Indians\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1179671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179671", "title": "Nemeton", "text": "Nemeton\n\nA nemeton was a sacred space of ancient Celtic religion. \"Nemeta\" appear to have been primarily situated in natural areas, and, as they often utilized trees, they are often interpreted as sacred groves. However, other evidence suggests that the word implied a wider variety of ritual spaces, such as shrines and temples. Evidence for nemeta consists chiefly of inscriptions and place-names, which occur all across the Celtic world. Toponyms related to the word \"nemeton\" occur as far west as Galicia in the Iberian peninsula, as far north as Scotland, and as far east as central Turkey. The word is related to the name of the Nemetes tribe living by the Rhine between the Palatinate and Lake Constance in what is now Germany, and their goddess Nemetona.\n\nPliny and Lucan wrote that druids did not meet in stone temples or other constructions, but in sacred groves of trees. In his \"Pharsalia\" Lucan described such a grove near Massilia in dramatic terms more designed to evoke a shiver of delicious horror among his Roman hearers than meant as proper natural history:\n\nno bird nested in the nemeton, nor did any animal lurk nearby; the leaves constantly shivered though no breeze stirred. Altars stood in its midst, and the images of the gods. Every tree was stained with sacrificial blood. the very earth groaned, dead yews revived; unconsumed trees were surrounded with flame, and huge serpents twined round the oaks. The people feared to approach the grove, and even the priest would not walk there at midday or midnight lest he should then meet its divine guardian.\n\nDescriptions of such sites have been found all across the Celtic world. Attested examples include \"Nemetobriga\" near Ourense in northwestern Spain, \"Drunemeton\" in Galatia, and \"Medionemeton\" near the Antonine Wall in what is now Scotland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "201588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201588", "title": "New religious movement", "text": "New religious movement\n\nA new religious movement (NRM), also known as a new religion or alternative spirituality, is a religious or spiritual group that has modern origins and is peripheral to its society's dominant religious culture. NRMs can be novel in origin or part of a wider religion, in which case they are distinct from pre-existing denominations. Some NRMs deal with the challenges posed by the modernizing world by embracing individualism, whereas others seek tightly knit collective means. Scholars have estimated that NRMs now number in the tens of thousands worldwide, with most of their members living in Asia and Africa. Most have only a few members, some have thousands, and a few have more than a million members.\n\nNew religions have often faced a hostile reception from established religious organisations and various secular institutions. In Western nations, a secular anti-cult movement and a Christian countercult movement emerged during the 1970s and 1980s to oppose emergent groups. In the 1970s, the distinct field of new religions studies developed within the academic study of religion. There are now several scholarly organisations and peer-reviewed journals devoted to the subject. Religious studies scholars contextualize the rise of NRMs in modernity, relating it as a product of and answer to modern processes of secularization, globalization, detraditionalization, fragmentation, reflexivity, and individualization.\n\nScholars continue to try to reach definitions and define boundaries. There is no singular, agreed-upon criterion for defining a \"new religious movement\", but the term usually suggests that the group is of recent origin and is different from existing religions. There is debate as to how the term \"new\" should be interpreted in this context. One perspective is that it should designate a religion that is more recent in its origins than large, well-established religions like Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, and Buddhism. An alternate perspective is that \"new\" should mean that a religion is more recent in its formation. Some scholars view the 1950s or the end of the Second World War in 1945 as the defining time, while others look as far back as the founding of the Latter Day Saint movement in 1830. According to \"New Religious Movements: A Documentary Reader\", New Religious Movements are “new (or old) religious groups that may or may not claim to be religious, and that are organizations more often than they are movements.\"\n\nIn 1830 the Latter Day Saint movement including The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was founded by Joseph Smith. It is now one of the most successful NRMs in terms of membership. In Japan, 1838 marks the beginning of Tenrikyo. In 1844 Bábism was established in Iran from which the Bahá'í Faith was founded by Bahá'u'lláh in 1863. In 1860 Donghak, later Cheondoism, was founded by Choi Jae-Woo in Korea. It later ignited the Donghak Peasant Revolution in 1894. In 1889, Ahmadiyya an Islamic sect was founded by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad. In 1891, the Unity Church, the first New Thought denomination, was founded in the United States.\n\nIn 1893, the first Parliament of the World's Religions was held in Chicago. The conference included NRMs of the time such as spiritualism and Christian Science. The latter was represented by its founder Mary Baker Eddy. Henry Harris Jessup addressing the meeting was the first to mention the Bahá'í Faith in the United States. Also attending were Soyen Shaku, the \"First American Ancestor\" of Zen, the Buddhist preacher Anagarika Dharmapala, and the Jain preacher Virchand Gandhi. This conference gave Asian religious teachers their first wide American audience.\n\nIn 1911, the Nazareth Baptist Church, the first and one of the largest modern African initiated churches, was founded by Isaiah Shembe in South Africa. The 1930s saw the rise of the Nation of Islam and the Jehovah's Witnesses in the United States; the Rastafari movement in Jamaica; Cao Đài and Hòa Hảo in Vietnam; Soka Gakkai in Japan; and Yiguandao in China.\n\nNew religious movements expanded in many nations in the 1950s and 1960s. Japanese new religions became very popular after the Shinto Directive (1945) forced a separation of the Japanese government and Shinto, which had been the state religion, bringing about greater freedom of religion. In 1954 Scientology was founded in the United States and the Unification Church in South Korea. In 1955 the Aetherius Society was founded in England. It and some other NRMs, have been called UFO religions since they combine belief in extraterrestrial life with traditional religious principles. In 1965, Paul Twitchell founded Eckankar, an NRM derived partially from Sant Mat. In 1966 the International Society for Krishna Consciousness was founded in the United States by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. In 1967, The Beatles' visit to Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in India brought public attention to the Transcendental Meditation movement.\n\nIn the late 1980s and the 1990s, the decline of communism and the revolutions of 1989 opened up new opportunities for NRMs. Falun Gong was first taught publicly in Northeast China in 1992 by Li Hongzhi. At first it was accepted by the Chinese government and by 1999 there were 70 million practitioners in China.\n\nIn the 21st century, many NRMs are using the Internet to give out information, to recruit members, and sometimes to hold online meetings and rituals. That is sometimes referred to as cybersectarianism. Sabina Magliocco, professor of Anthropology and Folklore at California State University, Northridge, has discussed joining NRMs in terms of its growing popularity due to reading, social and political interests, and most importantly, the Internet. With more than 20,000 websites and chat rooms devoted to Pagan topics, young people are increasingly using the Internet to form communities around NRMs rather than meeting in person.\n\nIn 2006 J. Gordon Melton, executive director of the Institute for the Study of American Religions at the University of California, Santa Barbara, told \"The New York Times\" that 40 to 45 new religious movements emerge each year in the United States. In 2007, religious scholar Elijah Siegler said that, though no NRM had become the dominant faith in any country, many of the concepts they first introduced (often referred to as \"New Age\" ideas) have become part of worldwide mainstream culture.\n\nAs noted by Barker, NRMs cannot all be \"lumped together\" and differ from one another on many issues.\nVirtually no generalisation can be made about NRMs that applies to every single group, with Barrett noting that \"generalizations tend not to be very helpful\" when studying NRMs. Melton expressed the view that there is \"no single characteristic or set of\ncharacteristics\" that all new religions share, \"not even their newness.\" Bryan Wilson wrote, \"Chief among the miss-directed assertions has been the tendency to speak of new religious movements as if they differed very little, if at all, one from another. The tendency has been to lump them altogether and indiscriminately to attribute to all of them characteristics which are, in fact, valid for only one or two.\" NRMs themselves often claim that they exist at a crucial place in time and space.\n\nSome NRMs have their own unique scriptures, while others reinterpret existing texts, utilizing a range of older elements. They frequently claim that these are not new, but rather had been forgotten truths that are only now being revived. NRM scriptures often incorporate modern scientific knowledge, sometimes with the claim that they are bringing unity to science and religion. Some NRMs believe that their scriptures are received through the process of mediumship. \"The Urantia Book\", the core scripture of the Urantia Movement, was published in 1955 and is said to be the product of a continuous process of revelation from \"celestial beings\" which began in 1911. Some NRMs, particularly those that are forms of occultism, have a prescribed system of courses and grades through which members can progress.\n\nMany NRMs promote celibacy, the state of voluntarily being unmarried, sexually abstinent, or both. Some, including the Shakers and more recent NRMs inspired by Hindu traditions, see it as a lifelong commitment. Others, including the Unification Church, as a stage in spiritual development. In some Buddhist NRMs celibacy is practiced mostly by older women who become nuns. Some people join NRMs and practice celibacy as a rite of passage in order to move beyond previous sexual problems or bad experiences. Groups that promote celibacy require a strong recruitment drive to survive; the Shakers established orphanages to bring new individuals into their community.\n\nViolent incidents involving NRMs are extremely rare and unusual. In those cases where large number of casualties resulted, the new religion in question was led by a charismatic leader. Beginning in 1978 with the deaths of 913 members of the Peoples Temple in Jonestown, Guyana by both murder and suicide an image of \"killer cults\" came to public attention. A number of subsequent events contributed to this. In 1994, a members of the Order of the Solar Temple committed suicide in Canada and Switzerland. In 1995 members of the Japanese new religion Aum Shinrikyo murdered a number of people, including through a sarin attack on the Tokyo subway. In 1997, 39 members of the Heaven's Gate group committed suicide in the belief that their spirits would leave the Earth and join a passing comet. There have also been cases where members of NRMs have been killed because they engaged in dangerous actions while believing themselves to be invincible; in Uganda several hundred members of the Holy Spirit Movement were killed as they approached gunfire because its leader, Alice Lakwena, told them that they would be protected from bullets by the oil of the shea tree.\n\nMany NRMs are founded and led by a charismatic leader. The death of any religion's founder represents a significant moment in its history. Over the months and years following its leader's death, the movement can die out, fragment into multiple groups, consolidate its position, or change its nature to become something quite different that what its founder intended. In some cases a NRM moves closer to the religious mainstream after the death of its founder.\n\nA number of founders of new religions established plans for succession to prevent confusion after their deaths. Mary Baker Eddy, the American founder of Christian Science, spent fifteen years working on her book \"The Manual of the Mother Church\", which laid out how the group should be run by her successors. L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, promoted his follower David Miscavige to be in a position to take over leadership of the Scientology organization at his death.\n\nThe leadership of the Bahá'í Faith passed through a succession of individuals until 1963 when it was assumed by the Universal House of Justice, members of which are elected by the worldwide congregation. A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, the founder of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, appointed 11 “Western Gurus” to act as initiating gurus and to continue to direct the organisation. However, according to British scholar of religion Gavin Flood, \"many problems followed from their appointment and the movement has since veered away from investing absolute authority in a few, fallible, human teachers.”\n\nNRMs typically consist largely of first-generation believers, and thus often have a younger average membership than mainstream religious congregations. Some NRMS have been formed by groups who have split from a pre-existing religious group. As these members grow older, many have children who are then brought up within the NRM.\n\nIn the Third World, NRMs most often appeal to the poor and oppressed sectors of society. Within Western countries, they are more likely to appeal to members of the middle and upper-middle classes, with Barrett stating that new religions in the UK and US largely attract \"white, middle-class late teens and twenties.\" There are exceptions, such as the Rastafari movement and the Nation of Islam, which have primarily attracted disadvantaged black youth in Western countries.\n\nA popular conception, unsupported by evidence, holds that those who convert to new religions are either mentally ill or become so through their involvement with them. Dick Anthony, a forensic psychologist noted for his writings on the brainwashing controversy, has defended NRMs, and in 1988 argued that involvement in such movements may often be beneficial: \"There's a large research literature published in mainstream journals on the mental health effects of new religions. For the most part the effects seem to be positive in any way that's measurable.\"\n\nThose who convert to a NRM typically believe that in doing so they are gaining some benefit in their life. This can come in many forms, from an increasing sense of freedom, to a release from drug dependency, and a feeling of self-respect and direction. Many of those who have left NRMs report that they have gained from their experience. There are various reasons as to why an individual would join and then remain part of an NRM, including both push and pull factors. According to Marc Galanter, Professor of Psychiatry at NYU, typical reasons why people join NRMs include a search for community and a spiritual quest. Sociologists Stark and Bainbridge, in discussing the process by which people join new religious groups, have questioned the utility of the concept of \"conversion\", suggesting that \"affiliation\" is a more useful concept.\n\nA popular explanation for why people join new religious movements is that they have been \"brainwashed\" or subject to \"mind control\" by the NRM itself. This explanation provides a rationale for 'deprogramming', a process in which members of NRMs are illegally kidnapped by individuals who then attempt to convince them to reject their beliefs. Professional deprogrammers therefore have a financial interest in promoting the 'brainwashing' explanation. Academic research however has demonstrated that these brainwashing techniques \"simply do not exist\".\n\nMany members of NRMs leave these groups of their own free will. Some of those who do so retain friends within the movement. Some of those who leave a religious community are unhappy with the time that they spent as part of it. Leaving a NRM can pose a number of difficulties. It may result in them having to abandon a daily framework that they had previously adhered to. It may also generate mixed emotions as ex-members lose the feelings of absolute certainty that they had held while in the group.\n\nThe academic study of new religious movements is known as 'new religions studies' (NRS).\nThe study draws from the disciplines of anthropology, psychiatry, history, psychology, sociology, religious studies, and theology. Barker noted that there are five sources of information on NRMs: the information provided by such groups themselves, that provided by ex-members as well as the friends and relatives of members, organisations that collect information on NRMs, the mainstream media, and academics studying such phenomena.\n\nThe study of new religions is unified by its topic of interest, rather than by its methodology, and is therefore interdisciplinary in nature. A sizeable body of scholarly literature on new religions has been published, most of it produced by social scientists. Among the disciplines that NRS utilises are anthropology, history, psychology, religious studies, and sociology. Of these approaches, sociology played a particularly prominent role in the development of the field, resulting in it being initially confined largely to a narrow array of sociological questions. This came to change in later scholarship, which began to apply theories and methods initially developed for examining more mainstream religions to the study of new ones.\n\nMost research has been directed toward those new religions that attract public controversy. Less controversial NRMs tend to be the subject of less scholarly research. It has also been noted that scholars of new religions often avoid researching certain movements that scholars from other backgrounds study. The feminist spirituality movement is usually examined by scholars of women's studies, African-American new religions by scholars of Africana studies, and Native American new religions by scholars of Native American studies. \n\nJ. Gordon Melton argued that, \"new religious movements\" should be defined by the way dominant religious and secular forces within a given society treat them. According to him, NRMs constituted \"those religious groups that have been found, from the perspective of the dominant religious community (and in the West that is almost always a form of Christianity), to be not just different, but unacceptably different.\" Barker cautioned against Melton's approach, arguing that negating the \"newness\" of \"new religious movements\" raises problems, for it is \"the very fact that NRMs are new that explains many of the key characteristics they display\".\n\nScholars of religion Olav Hammer and Mikael Rothstein argued that \"new religions are just young religions\" and \"not inherently different\" from mainstream and established religious movements, with the differences between the two having been greatly exaggerated by the media and popular perceptions. Melton has stated that those NRMs that \"were offshoots of older religious groups... tended to resemble their parent group far more than each other.\" One question that faces scholars of religion is when a new religious movement ceases to be \"new.\" As noted by Barker, \"In the first century, Christianity was new, in the seventh century Islam was new, in the eighteenth century Methodism was new, in the nineteenth century the Seventh-day Adventists, Christadelphians and Jehovah's Witnesses were new; in the twenty-first century the Unification Church, ISKCON and Scientology are beginning to look old.\"\n\nSome NRMs are strongly counter-cultural and 'alternative' in the society they appear in, while others are far more similar to a society's established traditional religions. Generally, Christian denominations are not seen as new religious movements; nevertheless, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Jehovah's Witnesses, Christian Science, and the Shakers have been studied as NRMs.\n\nThere are also problems in the use of \"religion\" within the term \"new religious movements\". This is because various groups, particularly active within the New Age milieu, have many traits in common with different NRMs but emphasise personal development and humanistic psychology, and are not clearly \"religious\" in nature.\n\nSince at least the early 2000s, most sociologists of religion have used the term \"new religious movement\" to avoid the pejorative undertones of terms like \"cult\" and \"sect\". These are words that have been used in different ways by different groups. For instance, from the nineteenth century onward a number of sociologists used the terms \"cult\" and \"sect\" in very specific ways. The sociologist Ernst Troeltsch for instance differentiated \"churches\" from \"sect\" by claiming that the former term should apply to groups that stretch across social strata while \"sects\" typically contain converts from socially disadvantaged sectors of society.\n\nThe term \"cult\" is used in reference to devotion or dedication to a particular person or place. For instance, within the Roman Catholic Church devotion to Mary, mother of Jesus is usually termed the \"Cult of Mary\". It is also used in non-religious contexts to refer to fandoms devoted to television shows like \"The Prisoner\", \"The X-Files\", and \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". In the United States, people began to use \"cult\" in a pejorative manner, to refer to Spiritualism and Christian Science during the 1890s. As commonly used, for instance in sensationalist tabloid articles, the term \"cult\" continues to have pejorative associations.\n\nThe term \"new religions\" is a calque of , a Japanese term developed to describe the proliferation of Japanese new religions in the years following the Second World War. From Japan this term was translated and used by several American authors, including Jacob Needleman, to describe the range of groups that appeared in the San Francisco Bay Area during the 1960s. This term, amongst others, was adopted by Western scholars as an alternative to \"cult\". However, \"new religious movements\" has failed to gain widespread public usage in the manner that \"cult\" has. Other terms that has been employed for many NRMs is \"alternative religion\" and \"alternative spirituality\", something used to convey the difference between these groups and established or mainstream religious movements while at the same time evading the problem posed by groups that are not particularly new.\n\nThe 1970s was the era of the so-called \"cult wars,\" led by \"cult-watching groups.\" The efforts of the anti-cult movement condensed a moral panic around the concept of cults. Public fears around Satanism, in particular, came to be known as a distinct phenomenon, the \"Satanic Panic.\" Consequently, scholars such as Eileen Barker, James T. Richardson, Timothy Miller and Catherine Wessinger argued that the term \"cult\" had become too laden with negative connotations, and \"advocated dropping its use in academia.\" A number of alternatives to the term \"new religious movement\" are used by some scholars. These include \"alternative religious movements\" (Miller), \"emergent religions\" (Ellwood) and \"marginal religious movements\" (Harper and Le Beau).\n\nThere has been opposition to NRMs throughout their history. Some historical events have been: Anti-Mormonism, the persecution of Jehovah's Witnesses, the persecution of Bahá'ís, and the persecution of Falun Gong. There are also instances in which violence has been directed at new religions. In the United States the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, Joseph Smith, was killed by a lynch mob in 1844. In India there have been mob killings of members of the Ananda Marga group. Such violence can also be administered by the state. In Iran, the Baha'i have faced persecution, while the Ahmadiyya have faced similar violence in Pakistan. Since 1999, the persecution of Falun Gong in China has been severe. Ethan Gutmann interviewed over 100 witnesses and estimated that 65,000 Falun Gong practitioners were killed for their organs from 2000 to 2008.\n\nIn the 1930s, Christian critics of NRMs began referring to them as \"cults\". The 1938 book \"The Chaos of Cults\" by Jan Karel van Baalen (1890–1968), an ordained minister in the Christian Reformed Church in North America, was especially influential. In the US, the Christian Research Institute was founded in 1960 by Walter Martin to counter opposition to evangelical Christianity and has come to focus on criticisms of NRMs. Presently the Christian countercult movement opposes most NRMs because of theological differences. It is closely associated with evangelical Christianity. The UK-based Reachout Trust was initially established to oppose the Jehovah's Witnesses and what it regarded as \"counterfeit Christian groups\", but it came to wider attention in the late 1980s and 1990s for its role in promoting claims about Satanic ritual abuse.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s some NRMs, as well as some non-religious groups, came under opposition by the newly organized anti-cult movement, which mainly charged them with psychological abuse of their own members. It actively seeks to discourage people from joining new religions (which it refers to as \"cults\"). It also encourages members of these groups to leave them, and at times seeking to restrict their freedom of movement.\n\nFamily members are often distressed when a relative of theirs joins a new religion. Although children break away from their parents for all manner of reasons, in cases where NRMS are involved it is often the latter that are blamed for the break. Some anti-cultist groups emphasise the idea that \"cults\" always use deceit and trickery to recruit members. The anti-cult movement adopted the term \"brainwashing\", which had been developed by the journalist Edward Hunter and then used by Robert J. Lifton to apply to the methods employed by Chinese to convert captured U.S. soldiers to their cause in the Korean War. Lifton himself had doubts about the applicability of his 'brainwashing' hypothesis to the techniques used by NRMs to convert recruits. A number of ex-members of various new religions have made false allegations about their experiences in such groups. For instance, in the late 1980s a man in Dublin, Ireland was given a three-year suspended sentence for falsely claiming that he had been drugged, kidnapped, and held captive by members of ISKCON. Anti-cultists assert that leaders of NRMs depended on underhanded methods also called “mind-control” or “thought-reform”, “to impair the initiative and decision-making capacity of members.\"\n\nScholars of religion have often critiqued anti-cult groups of un-critically believing anecdotal stories provided by the ex-members of new religions, of encouraging ex-members to think that they are the victims of manipulation and abuse, and of irresponsibly scare-mongering about NRMs. Of the \"well over a thousand groups that have been or might be called cults\" listed in the files of INFORM, says Eileen Barker, the \"vast majority\" have not engaged in criminal activities.\n\nNew religious movements and cults have appeared as themes or subjects in literature and popular culture, while notable representatives of such groups have produced a large body of literary works. Beginning in the 1700s authors in the English-speaking world began introducing members of \"cults\" as antagonists. Satanists, sects of the Mormon movement, and Thuggees were popular choices. In the Twentieth century concern for the rights and feelings of religious minorities led authors to most often invent fictional cults for their villains to be members of. Fictional cults continue to be popular in film, television, and gaming in the same way; while some popular works treat new religious movements in a serious manner.\n\nTabloid articles have repeatedly combined the word \"cult\" with other terms to make their coverage more sensational, thus referring to various new religions as a \"sex cult\", \"evil cult\", or \"suicide cult\". An article on the categorization of new religious movements in U.S. print media published by \"The Association for the Sociology of Religion\" (formerly the American \"Catholic Sociological Society\"), criticizes the print media for failing to recognize social-scientific efforts in the area of new religious movements, and its tendency to use popular or anti-cultist definitions rather than social-scientific insight, and asserts that \"The failure of the print media to recognize social-scientific efforts in the area of religious movement organizations impels us to add yet another failing mark to the media report card Weiss (1985) has constructed to assess the media's reporting of the social sciences.\"\n\nNew Religious Movements are objects of what is called “othering.” The media “constructs symbolic identity markers that define membership in particular communities, compiles representations or portayals of those communities, and through a process of Othering, sets apart certain communities that are in need of social control.” Such a process is at the heart of the relationship of the media with NRM’s. According to James R. Lewis, “NRMs become folk devils, and journalists become the moral entrepreneurs who problematize NRMs, thereby constructing moral panics about these groups.” Tami M. Bereska, writing in \"Scientology in Popular Culture\" finds that the “innocuous repetition” in fictional programs such as The Simpsons, South Park and Family Guy contain implicit arguments that have moral implications. These arguments have an influence on the attitudes of individuals, through what Bereska calls “narrative persuasion.” Studies in a wide range of topics have shown the efficacy of narrative persuasion. A study revealed that participants reading a short story called “Murder at the Mall” “caused research participants to perceive shopping malls as unsafe spaces and increased their negative attitudes towards people with mental disorders.” Another study showed that participants who viewed the film \"Camino\", a film that portrayed the Opus Dei negatively, had a disapproving attitude towards the religious group after viewing the film. Another example is the image of cigarette smoking in movies, which was found to be more influential then tobacco advertising and marketing. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "926945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=926945", "title": "Nouriel Roubini", "text": "Nouriel Roubini\n\nNouriel Roubini (born March 29, 1958) is an American economist. He teaches at New York University's Stern School of Business and is chairman of Roubini Macro Associates LLC, an economic consultancy firm.\n\nThe child of Iranian Jews, he was born in Turkey and grew up in Italy. After receiving a BA in political economics at Bocconi University, Milan and a doctorate in international economics at Harvard University, he became an academic at Yale and a visiting researcher/advisor at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Federal Reserve, World Bank, and Bank of Israel. Much of his early research focused on emerging markets. During the administration of President Bill Clinton, he was a senior economist for the Council of Economic Advisers, later moving to the United States Treasury Department as a senior adviser to Timothy Geithner, who in 2009 became Treasury Secretary.\n\nNouriel Roubini was born in Istanbul, Turkey, to Iranian Jewish parents. When he was an infant, his family lived briefly in Iran and Israel. From 1962 to 1983 he resided in Italy, especially in Milan, where he attended the local Jewish school and then the Bocconi University, earning a B.A., \"summa cum laude\", in economics. He received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, where his adviser was Jeffrey Sachs. He is a U.S. citizen and speaks English, Persian, Italian, Hebrew, and conversational French. He is a cousin of leading technology expert and former PC Magazine lead technology analyst Jonathan Roubini.\n\nFor much of the 1990s, Roubini combined academic research with policy making by teaching at Yale and then in New York, while also being employed at the International Monetary Fund, the Federal Reserve, World Bank, and Bank of Israel. Currently, he is a professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. Long study of emerging market blowouts in Asia and Latin America helped him spot the looming disaster in the U.S. \"I’ve been studying emerging markets for 20 years, and saw the same signs in the U.S. that I saw in them, which was that we were in a massive credit bubble,\" he said.\n\nBy 1998, he joined the Clinton administration first as a senior economist in the White House Council of Economic Advisers and then moved to the Treasury department as a senior adviser to Timothy Geithner, then the undersecretary for international affairs, who in 2009 became Treasury secretary in the Obama administration.\n\nRoubini returned to the IMF in 2001 as a visiting scholar while it battled a financial meltdown in Argentina. He cowrote a book on saving bankrupt economies entitled, \"Bailouts or Bail-ins?\" and launched his own consulting firm. He is also a regular contributor to Project Syndicate since 2007.\n\nHe credits a number of economists for his understanding of economics. He said, One person who has had a great impact on me intellectually was my adviser at Harvard, Jeffrey Sachs. For me he’s the model of a great intellectual. He is both a rigorous academic and very human, involved in big picture issues such as poverty, AIDS, and Africa. He’s someone with a great mind that is also very engaged with the world. Another intellectual hero is Larry Summers, the former President of Harvard, an amazing intellectual and academic, who is very deeply involved with the policy world. I worked for him for many years in the US Treasury during the Clinton Administration.\n\nRoubini likes to refer to himself as a \"global nomad\", and says, \"You can be sitting still surfing the Internet, and experience other worlds, ideas and societies. But I’ve found that there is nothing better than visiting a different country, even if for three days. ... [Y]ou can’t only be a virtual Global Nomad, with goggles on, in a virtual reality. You have to be there. You have to see it, smell it and live it. You have to see people, travel, and interact.\"\n\nPartly to fulfill this need, he formed Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy for financial analysis. In describing the purpose of RGE Monitor, he said, \"the world is my home, so everything about society and culture—no matter how —is worth knowing. I am an information junkie and created RGE Monitor to collect information about what’s happening around the world.\"\n\nSpeaking of his early influences, Roubini said, \"I was born into a relatively orthodox Jewish family in Iran, lived in Israel and Turkey, and then moved to Italy as a child. By the age of six, instead of going to a yeshiva, I went to a secular Jewish school where I interacted with kids from all sorts of different backgrounds. Had I gone to an orthodox Jewish school, I would perhaps be orthodox now and may have never become a Global Nomad.\"\n\nRoubini announced on Twitter in early 2014 his new practice of Transcendental Meditation.\n\nRoubini is also a member of the Berggruen Institute's 21st Century Council.\n\nDuring an interview in June 2009, he was asked about his personal lifestyle expenses and other investments. He said, \"I regularly save about 30% of my income. Apart from my mortgage, I don’t have any other debts. The credit crunch hasn’t affected me much. . . . I’ve always lived within my means and, luckily, have never been out of work. I would say I’m a frugal person—I don’t have very expensive tastes. . . . You don’t need to spend a lot to enjoy things.\"\n\nAsked whether he invests in stocks, he replied, \"Not as much these days. I used to have a lot in equities—about 75%—but over the past three years, I’ve had about 95% in cash and 5% in equities. You’re not getting much from savings these days but earning 0% is better than losing 50%. . . . I don’t believe in picking individual stocks or assets. . . . Never invest your money as though you are gambling at the casino. Buying and selling individual stocks is a waste of time.\"\n\nRoubini is one of few economists who predicted the housing bubble crash of 2007-2008. He warned about the crisis in an IMF position paper in 2006.\nRoubini's predictions have earned him the nicknames \"Dr. Doom\" and \"permabear\" in the media. In 2008, \"Fortune\" magazine wrote, \"In 2005 Roubini said home prices were riding a speculative wave that would soon sink the economy. Back then the professor was called a Cassandra. Now he's a sage\". The \"New York Times\" notes that he foresaw \"homeowners defaulting on mortgages, trillions of dollars of mortgage-backed securities unraveling worldwide and the global financial system shuddering to a halt\". In September 2006, he warned a skeptical IMF that \"the United States was likely to face a once-in-a-lifetime housing bust, an oil shock, sharply declining consumer confidence, and, ultimately, a deep recession\". Nobel laureate Paul Krugman adds that his once \"seemingly outlandish\" predictions have been matched \"or even exceeded by reality.\" \nBy highlighting some of his many past predictions as being accurate, Roubini has promoted himself as a major figure in the U.S. and international debate about the economy, and spends much of his time shuttling between meetings with central bank governors and finance ministers in Europe and Asia. Although he is ranked only 985th in terms of lifetime academic citations, he was #4 on \"Foreign Policy\" magazine's list of the \"top 100 global thinkers.\" In 2011 and 2012, he was named by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine as one of the Top 100 Global Thinkers. In December 2013 Roubini was awarded by Global Thinkers Forum the honorary GTF 2013 Award for Excellence in Global Thinking. He has appeared before Congress, the Council on Foreign Relations, and the World Economic Forum at Davos.\n\nIn the 1990s, Roubini studied the collapse of emerging economies. He used an intuitive, historical approach backed up by an understanding of theoretical models to analyze these countries and came to the conclusion that a common denominator was the large current account deficits financed by loans from abroad. Roubini theorized that the United States might be the next to suffer, and as early as 2004 began writing about a possible future collapse. \"Business Week\" magazine writer Michael Mandel, however, noted in 2006 that Roubini and other economists often make general predictions which could happen over multiyear periods.\n\nIn September 2006, he foresaw the end of the real estate bubble: \"When supply increases, prices fall: that’s been the trend for 110 years, since 1890. But since 1997, real home prices have increased by about 90 percent. There is no economic fundamental—real income, migration, interest rates, demographics—that can explain this. It means there was a speculative bubble. And now that bubble is bursting.\" In the Spring 2006 issue of \"International Finance\", he wrote an article titled \"Why Central Banks Should Burst Bubbles\" in which he argued that central banks should take action against asset bubbles. When asked whether the real estate ride was over, he said, \"Not only is it over, it’s going to be a nasty fall.\"\n\nBy May 2009, he felt that analysts expecting the U.S. economy to rebound in the third and fourth quarter were \"too optimistic\". He expected the full recession to last 24 or 36 months, and believed in the possibility of an \"L-shaped\" slow recovery that Japan went through in The Lost Decade.\n\nIn his opinion, much of the current recession's cause is due to \"boom-and-bust cycles,\" and he feels the U.S. economy needs to find a different growth path in the future. \"We’ve been growing through a period of time of repeated big bubbles,\" he said. \"We’ve had a model of 'growth' based on overconsumption and lack of savings. And now that model has broken down because we borrowed too much.\" He feels that too much human capital went into financing the \"most unproductive form of capital, meaning housing\" and would like to see America create a model of growth in more-productive activities. He feels that \"sustainable growth may mean investing slowly in infrastructures for the future, and rebuilding our human capital,\" by investing in renewable resources. \"We don’t know what it’s going to be,\" he says, \"but it’s going to be a challenge to find a new growth model. It’s not going to be simple.\"\n\n\nIn August 2009, Roubini predicted that the global economy would begin recovering near the end of 2009, but the U.S. economy is likely to grow only about one percent annually during the next two years, which is less than the three percent normal \"trend.\" He noted that the Fed is \"now embarked on a policy in which they are in effect directly monetizing about half of the budget deficit,\" but that now \"monetization is not inflationary,\" as banks were holding much of the money themselves and not relending it. When these attitudes reverse at the end of the recession, that would be time for an \"exit strategy, of mopping up that liquidity\" and taking some of the money back out of circulation, \"so it doesn’t just bid up house prices and stock values in a new bubble. And that will be 'very, very tricky indeed,'\" he stated.\n\nAlso, in late July, he warned that if no clear exit strategy is outlined and implemented, there was the potential of a perfect storm: fiscal deficits, rising bond yields, higher oil prices, weak profits, and a stagnant labor market, which combined could \"blow the recovering world economy back into a double-dip recession.\"\n\nIn the summer of 2006, Roubini wrote that the U.S. was headed into a long and \"protracted\" recession due to the \"collapse\" of house prices, which he noted were already in freefall.\n\nWith regards to Europe, Roubini predicted that Italy, and possibly a series of other eurozone countries (Portugal, Spain, Greece) might have to exit the eurozone if they did not implement \"serious economic reforms.\" \"[It] is not a foregone conclusion but, if Italy does not reform, an exit from EMU within 5 years is not totally unlikely. Indeed, like Argentina, Italy faces a growing competitiveness loss given an increasingly overvalued currency and the risk of falling exports and growing current account deficit. The growth slowdown will make the public deficit and debt worse and potentially unsustainable over time. And if a devaluation cannot be used to reduce real wages, the real exchange rate overvaluation will be undone via a slow and painful process of wage and price deflation.\"\n\nAs of January 2009, he remained pessimistic about the U.S. and global economy. He said in September, 2008, \"we have a subprime financial system, not a subprime mortgage market\". \"As the U.S. economy shrinks, the entire global economy will go into recession. In Europe, Canada, Japan, and the other advanced economies, it will be severe. Nor will emerging market economies—linked to the developed world by trade in goods, finance, and currency—escape real pain.\" He was quoted in South Africa's 2009 budget speech for his role in predicting the current financial crisis in the developed markets.\n\nRoubini notes that the subprime issues are a global, and not just a U.S. problem. In an interview with author James Fallows in late spring of 2009, he stated, \"People talk about the American subprime problem, but there were housing bubbles in the U.K., in Spain, in Ireland, in Iceland, in a large part of emerging Europe, like the Baltics all the way to Hungary and the Balkans. It was not just the U.S., and not just 'subprime.' It was excesses that led to the risk of a tipping point in many different economies.\"\n\nHis pessimism is focused on the short-run rather than the medium or long-run. In \"Foreign Policy\" (Jan/Feb 2009), he writes, \"Last year’s worst-case scenarios came true. The global financial pandemic that I and others had warned about is now upon us. But we are still only in the early stages of this crisis. My predictions for the coming year, unfortunately, are even more dire: The bubbles, and there were many, have only begun to burst\".\n\nAt a conference in Dubai in January, 2009, he said, the U.S. banking system was \"effectively insolvent.\" He added that the \"systemic banking crisis... The problems of Citi, Bank of America and others suggest the system is bankrupt. In Europe, it’s the same thing.\" To deal with this problem, he recommends that the U.S. government \"do triage between banks that are illiquid and undercapitalized but solvent, and those that are insolvent. The insolvent ones you have to shut down.\" He adds, \"We're in a war economy. You need command-economy allocation of credit to the real economy. Not enough is being done,\" he felt at the time.\n\nIn 2010, he again warned that despite an improved economy with rising stock markets, the crisis was not over and new bubbles were on the horizon:\n\nIn late May 2010, markets around the world began dropping due partly to problems in Greece and the Eurozone. \"Roubini believes Greece will prove to be just the first of a series of countries standing on the brink,\" writes the \"Telegraph.\" Roubini explains the new issues governments must deal with:\n\nRoubini met officials in China during spring 2009, and pointed out that many Chinese commentators blame American \"overborrowing and excess\" for dragging them into a recession. However, he stated that \"even they realize that the very excess of American demand has created a market for Chinese exports.\" He adds that although Chinese leaders \"would love to be less dependent on American customers and hate having so many of their nation’s foreign assets tied up in U.S. dollars,\" they’re now \"more worried about keeping Chinese exporters in business. . . . I don’t think even the Chinese authorities have fully internalized the contradictions of their position.\"\n\nRoubini and political scientist Ian Bremmer have described the 21st century world as fragmenting economically and politically, where the \"old models of understanding global dynamics are struggling\" to keep up with rapid changes. In an article in \"Foreign Affairs\" magazine, they describe what they call a \"G-Zero world,\" where the United States no longer has the resources to continue as the primary provider of global public goods. As a result, there is likely to be more conflict than cooperation between countries, creating a \"zero-sum game,\" a \"game in which my win is your loss.\" They explain their rationale:\n\nBy May 2014 Roubini had become bullish, arguing many of the risks to the global economy had receded. He pointed to an improving European economy and stronger euro, steadying of the economy in Japan, and a marked improvement in the United States. He praised the Federal Reserve for its unconventional monetary policy, which he forecast would last for a few more years, supporting equity markets.\n\nAt the start of 2017, Roubini speculated that the election of Donald Trump as President may portend a geopolitical shift away from globalization and more toward isolationism, a change which he feels could lead to global instability and rising military conflicts among other countries.\n\nAt the Fluidity Summit in New York, Roubini cast serious doubt on bitcoin and cryptocurrencies during a debate with ConsenSys founder Joseph Lubin. In the same vein, he delivered a blistering attack on cyrptocurrency to a U.S. Senate Banking Committee.\n\nNouriel Roubini is identified as a Democrat in his profile on Wall Street Economists.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1726786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1726786", "title": "Oh My Gods!", "text": "Oh My Gods!\n\nOh My Gods! is a webcomic written and illustrated by Shivian Montar Balaris. It deals with the Neopagan, Pagan, and Wiccan faiths. The interaction of followers of these faiths with Christian fundamentalists and followers of other religions is the main concern of the story.\n\nIt debuted on 7 March 2002. The strip initially featured four main cartoon characters whose outlook on life was stereotypical: Stan the gay man, Vera the bull-dyke, Winston the nerd, and Victor the moron. These four have since outgrown their initial \"cookie cutter\" molds and taken on lives of their own. The cast has since expanded to include additional characters such as Fundie, Kay, and Reiki Master.\n\nWithin the strip all characters are assumed to be Pagan, unless labelled otherwise by crosses on their shirts. The main characters often comment on bad Pagans and on the opposition they receive from fundamentalists. Despite the strip's frequent references to Pagan and Wiccan sub-culture, it has a substantial Christian following as well as a Neopagan audience.\n\nMany strips are the result of viewer suggestion, and Oh My Gods! as a whole often reflects the personal experiences of the artist.\n\nThe last official strip was posted on 17 March 2009. The following year, a strip entitled \"Finale\" was posted along with a note from the creator indicating that he had decided to cease creating the Oh My Gods! comic.\n\nIn addition to the normal strips Oh My Gods! also features simple reverse font slogans which are supposed to resemble religious bumper stickers and special remembrances of the deaths of Shivian Balaris's father and Pope John Paul II, and the September 11, 2001 attacks. The first anniversary strip was in the form of a short movie.\n\nCharacters have died in the course of the story and remained so, in a departure from the convention of comic strip comedy. Elements of fantasy (fairies, boob-vampires, etc.) take the story into the realms of the surreal, though it keeps a thread of realism. This fantastic aspect is embellished by the appearance of such characters as the Pope, a Clown for Christ, and Unitarian Universalists who are depicted as Borg.\n\nOh My Gods! has a characteristic \"preschool\" like drawing style, with characters only having eyes, one perspective, and no fingers. The drawing style is based loosely on a popular webcomic - Little Gamers, et al. In the 8 March 2002 comic, Shivian acknowledges this by doing what the characters themselves say is \"a blatant ripoff\". Die-hard fans will also make what they call \"Ohmygodsifications\" of themselves, or what they would look like if they were a character in the strip.\n\nOh My Gods! also very often breaks the fourth wall. Characters are well aware of their existence as characters in a comic, and they are often depicted as conversing with Shivian or commenting on things occurring in his interactions with the comic or life at large. Additionally, they have been shown great surprise when Shivian made a change to the style of the comic such as the introduction of color, legs, or fleshed out backgrounds. In another instance, Shivian is shown as storing the props for the comic in the basement of their house.\n\n\n\n\"Oh My Gods!\" has also been featured in \"Prediction\" (UK magazine), \"SIPA News\" (local newsletter), \"PagaNet News\" (global newspaper), \"newWitch\" (national magazine), Eldaring.de (German website), the Cauldron.net (website), \"Pentacle\" (magazine & website), Mississippi State University WPSA (website), the SORCery Convention (event), Akashan Pathways (website), Modern Wiccan (website), \"WynterGreene\" (newspaper), the \"Daily Egyptian\" (newspaper of Southern Illinois University Carbondale), \"The Scribe\" (newsletter), \"Pagan Press\" (newsletter), \"The Witch's Path\" (newsletter), \"Connect\" (newsletter), Between the Worlds (event), Pagan Spirit Gathering (event), and Something Awful (Awful Link of the Day).\n\nIn March 2007, \"Oh My Gods!\" was made available in book form for the first time. As of February 2009, five volumes of yearly anthologies had been made available at the print-on-demand publisher Lulu. These volumes include:\n\nIn July 2011, two new omnibus volumes of \"Oh My Gods!\" were announced on the comic's website. These two volumes were released in eBook and hardback in March 2013 through Lulu. Volume 1 covers the first 1051 published strips plus some unpublished content, while Volume 2 covers the remaining 1049 strips and bonus content. These volumes are the first time that years six and seven of the comic have been made available in book form:\n\nIt has won the Golden Web Award for 2003–2004, was a \"UserFriendly.org Link of the Day\" and has received reviews from the \"Shadow Witch Web\" and \"Sequential Tart\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "816598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=816598", "title": "Protestant work ethic", "text": "Protestant work ethic\n\nThe Protestant work ethic, the Calvinist work ethic or the Puritan work ethic is a concept in theology, sociology, economics and history that emphasizes that hard work, discipline and frugality are a result of a person's subscription to the values espoused by the Protestant faith, particularly Calvinism.\n\nThis contrasts with the focus upon religious attendance, confession, and ceremonial sacrament in the Roman Catholic tradition. A person does not need to be a religious Calvinist in order to follow the Protestant work ethic, as it is a part of certain cultures impacted by the Protestant Reformation.\n\nThe concept is often credited with helping to define the societies of Northern, Central and Western Europe. Even though some of these countries were more affected by Lutheranism or Anglicanism than Calvinism, local Protestants nevertheless were influenced by these ideas to a varying degree. As penal law was enacted to uphold the uniform teachings of the Church of England in England, only various English dissenters held to those values. Among them were the Puritans who emigrated to New England, bringing the work ethic with them and helping define the culture of what would become the United States of America. Immigrants brought their work ethic to the United States of America, Canada, South Africa and other European colonies.\n\nThe phrase was initially coined in 1904–1905 by Max Weber in his book \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\".\n\nA number of leading contemporary historians, including historian Fernand Braudel (d. 1985) and British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper (d. 2003), assert that the existing consensus among scholars is that Protestant Work Ethic theory is false. They refer to the pre-Reformation existence of rapid economic development of Catholic capitalist communities.\nProtestants, beginning with Martin Luther, reconceptualized worldly work as a duty which benefits both the individual and society as a whole. Thus, the Catholic idea of good works was transformed into an obligation to consistently work diligently as a sign of grace. Whereas Catholicism teaches that good works are required of Catholics as a necessary manifestation of the faith they received, and that faith apart from works is dead (James 2:14–26) and barren, the Calvinist theologians taught that only those who were predestined to be saved would be saved.\n\nSince it was impossible to know who was predestined, the notion developed that it might be possible to discern that a person was elect (predestined) by observing their way of life. Hard work and frugality were thought to be two important consequences of being one of the elect. Protestants were thus attracted to these qualities and supposed to strive for reaching them.\n\nWriter Frank Chodorov argued that the Protestant ethic was long considered indispensable for American political figures:\nThere has been a revitalization of Weber's interest, including the work of Lawrence Harrison, Samuel P. Huntington, and David Landes. In a \"New York Times\" article, published in June 8, 2003, Niall Ferguson pointed that data from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) seems to confirm that \"the experience of Western Europe in the past quarter-century offers an unexpected confirmation of the Protestant ethic. To put it bluntly, we are witnessing the decline and fall of the Protestant work ethic in Europe. This represents the stunning triumph of secularization in Western Europe—the simultaneous decline of both Protestantism and its unique work ethic.\"\n\nIt is common for those in a Protestant work culture to skip lunch (traditionally being sustained from a large breakfast) or to eat lunch while doing their job. This is in contrast to Catholic cultures which practice \"siesta\" at lunch time, and neo-Confucianist cultures such as China, Korea, and Japan which have a one- or two-hour lunch break. Some countries such as Spain have experimented with banning \"siesta\" in order to try to adopt the Protestant work ethic, with hopes of reducing their financial debt via hard-working and efficient employees. In Italy, many shops now remain open during siesta, while in China, companies are encouraging employees to give up their traditional break time.\n\nThe Austrian Catholic economist Joseph Schumpeter argued that capitalism began in Italy in the 14th century, not in the Protestant areas of Europe. Other factors that further developed the European market economy included the strengthening of property rights and lowering of transaction costs with the decline and monetization of feudalism, and the increase in real wages following the epidemics of bubonic plague.\n\nBecker and Wossmann at the University of Munich have written a discussion paper describing an alternate theory. The abstract to this states that the literacy gap between Protestants (as a result of the Reformation) and Catholics sufficiently explains the economic gaps, and that the \"[r]esults hold when we exploit the initial concentric dispersion of the Reformation to use distance to Wittenberg as an instrument for Protestantism.\" However, they also note that, between Luther (1500) and 1871 Prussia, the limited data available has meant that the period in question is regarded as a \"black box\" and that only \"some cursory discussion and analysis\" is possible.\n\nHistorian Fernand Braudel wrote \"all historians have opposed this tenuous theory [the Protestant Ethic], although they have not managed to be rid of it once and for all. Yet it is clearly false. The northern countries took over the place that earlier had been so long and brilliantly been occupied by the old capitalist centers of the Mediterranean. They invented nothing, either in technology or business management.\" Social scientist Rodney Stark moreover comments that \"during their critical period of economic development, these northern centers of capitalism were Catholic, not Protestant — the Reformation still lay well into the future.\" He also summarized the finding of other leading modern historians thus, \"Protestants were not more likely to hold the high-status capitalist positions than were Catholics. Catholic areas of western Europe did not lag in their industrial development. And even more obvious at the time Weber wrote was that fully developed capitalism had appeared in Europe many centuries before the Reformation!\" British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said, \"The idea that large-scale industrial capitalism was ideologically impossible before the Reformation is exploded by the simple fact that it existed.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42016545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42016545", "title": "Rustam II", "text": "Rustam II\n\nRustam II (), was the twelfth ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 964 to 979. He was the brother and successor of Shahriyar II.\n\nRustam was the son of Sharwin II. In 964, Shahriyar was deposed because of his pro-Ziyarid policies in favor of his pro-Buyid brother Rustam. Rustam was the first Bavand ruler who embraced Shia Islam. Shahriyar later tried to reclaim the Bavand throne by invading Tabaristan with a Samanid army in 968, but with no avail. Rustam died in 979, and was succeeded by his son Al-Marzuban.\n\n"}
{"id": "10254359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10254359", "title": "Sanamahism", "text": "Sanamahism\n\nSanamahism or Sanamahi Laining refers to the traditional Meitei beliefs and religion found in the state of India called Manipur near Myanmar. The term is derived from \"Sanamahi\", one of the important Meitei deities. Sanamahi derives his power from the combination of all the stars in the Milky Way. Lord Sun worships him for more power and he delivers all with ease. According to Bertil Lintner, Sanamahism is an \"animistic, ancestor worshipping, shaman-led tradition\".\n\nSanamahism is practiced by the Meitei, Zeliangrong and other communities who inhabit Manipur, Assam, Tripura, Myanmar and Bangladesh, with small migrant populations in the United Kingdom, United States, and Canada.\n\nAccording to 2011 census, about eight percent of Manipur belong to religions stated as 'other'.\n\nReligion in Manipur is thought to have passed through three stages.\n\nIn assimilate features such as the worship of forces of nature like fire, water, mountain, ancestor worship (Apokpa), Lamlai (Outdoor Dwelling Gods and Goddesses), Yumlai (House dwelling Gods and Goddesses), Ningthoulai (King God) and Umanglai (Forest Dwelling God). Religion of antiquity – in its pure native form, it is as all as the history of Meitei people from the time immemorial.\n\nThere is reference to the worship of Sanamahi by Ningthou (King) Kangba in the Hayi age. Manipur is a polytheistic land with Atiya Sidaba as the supreme god. Atiya Sidaba, Apaanba and Asheeba are the three manifestations or incarnations of God as the creator, the preserver and the annihilator of this universe respectively.\n\nPanthoibi is the Mother of the Universe and Nongpok Ningthou is her mate. Besides those, three hundred and sixty-four deities with their consorts are the most important deities worshipped by the Meiteis.\n\nThe Plain Kabui are observed in worship of Sanamahi and Ima Leimarel.\n\nSanamahi (also known as Asheeba) has a creator brother (like him) named Paakhangba (Konjin Tukthapa).\n\nSome of the important gods and goddesses worshiped by the Meiteis are:\n\nThey also worshipped the Umanglais (forest dwelling gods and goddesses). Umanglais are the protectors, preservers of their corresponding areas/localities which includes houses, fields, welfare of the people, etc. In short, the Umanglais are the guardians of the outer world of the people and also these gods and goddesses are associated with each and every doings of the people in day-to-day life. Hence, They are considerrd to be very powerful.\n\nSome of the Umanglais are:\n\nThe title \"Lainingthou\" refers to the incarnation from Lainingthou Sanamahi and the title \"Ebudhou\" refers to the incarnation from Ebudhou Paakhangba.\n\nMeiteis offer praying to the household gods and goddesses twice a day, once at dawn and once at dusk. They offer incense sticks/burner and candles/\"meiraa\" along with flowers and water.\n\nDevout Meiteis offer food at sacred spots daily to the goddess of kitchen and prosperity, Ebendhou Emoinu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10773237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10773237", "title": "Sassoon family", "text": "Sassoon family\n\nThe Sassoon family, known as \"Rothschilds of the East\" due to the great wealth they accumulated in trade, is of Baghdadi Jewish descent and international renown. It was based in Baghdad, Iraq, before moving to Bombay, India, and then spreading to China, England, and other countries. It is said that the family descended from the Shoshans, one of the families of Iberian Peninsula. From the 18th century, the Sassoons were one of the wealthiest families in the world, with a merchant empire spanning the continent of Asia.\n\nThe name of the family strongly implies a local, Mesopotamian origin for the family. The family name of Sassoon is also commonly shared by many Armenian and Kurdish families and tribes who all originate from the mountainous district of Sason (whence the family and tribal names), west of Lake Van, in upper Mesopotamia in modern Turkey. It is, however, possible that some Spanish Sephardi blood was mixed with the primarily Mesopotamian Jewish Sasoons.\n\nSassoon ben Salih (1750–1830) and his family were the chief treasurers to the pashas of Baghdad and Southern Iraq. His sons David (1792–1864), and Joseph (1795–1872) fled from a new and unfriendly wāli, in 1828 David first went to the Persian Gulf port of Bushehr and in 1832 to Bombay, India, with his large family. In Bombay, he built the international business called David S. Sassoon, with the policy of staffing it with people brought from Baghdad. They filled the functions of the various branches of his business in India, Burma, Malaya, and east Asia. He cemented the family's dominant position in the Sino-Indian opium trade. The family's businesses in China, and Hong Kong especially, were built to capitalise on the trade. His business extended to China – where Sassoon House (now the north wing of the Peace Hotel) on the Bund in Shanghai became a noted landmark – and then to England. In each branch, he maintained a rabbi. His wealth and munificence were proverbial; his philanthropy across Asia included the building of schools, orphanages, hospitals, and museums with the proceeds of the drug trade. On his death, tributes to him were made from across the continent by Muslims, Christians, Parsees, Jews, and Hindus.\n\nJoseph Sassoon went to Aleppo, Syria, where he established a merchant house and later his business interests spread to Alexandria, Thessaloniki, and Athens, which included a shipping company and a money exchange house. His five sons branched out in many directions: his son Moses Sassoon (1828–1909) returned to Baghdad before moving to Egypt where he built the financial house Joseph Sassoon & Sons, which later expanded and became an agent for Crédit Foncier in Egypt. In 1871 Moses' son Jacob Sassoon (1850–1936) was one of the largest cotton plantation owners in Egypt, and owned cotton mills; during the American civil war his older brother Nissim (1840–1917) had made a fortune exporting Egyptian cotton to England making him Egypt's largest cotton exporter. In 1927, with Misr Bank and other Egyptian businessmen, Jacob Sassoon founded of Misr Spinning and Weaving Company (Arabic: شركة مصر للغزل والنسيج), also known as Misr Helwan or the El-Ghazl factory owning 61% of the company's shares. Jacob Sassoon also founded Egypt Crédit Foncier with the Joseph Vita Mosseri, his grandson Eliau Joseph Sassoon was an architect, and designed the Asicurazione de Trieste Building. Eliau Sassoon was also a real estate investor and developer, who foresaw the unparalleled growth of Cairo and the lucrative effect such expansion would have on land values. It is not surprising, therefore, that many of the properties he invested in were located at the nexus of the elegant European quarter of Ismailia or in the choicest parts of Kasr al-Dubara, and later, in Garden City, Zamalek, and Giza. In 1952 his grandson Eliau (Elias) Nissim Eliau Joseph Sassoon (1928–2010) founded Banque Du Caire with Maurice Joseph Cattaui (1925–2009).\n\nEliau (Elias) Nissim Eliau Joseph Sassoon (Hebrew: אליהו נסים אליאו יוסף ששון) (1927–2010), (always called Elias), born in Aleppo, Syria, to Nassim Eliau Sassoon (1911–1988) a wealthy merchant, banker, and former partner at Safra Freres a bank based in Aleppo, and Messouda Sassoon (born Shamash) (1911–1992).\n\nElias Sassoon was Joseph Sassoon’s most influential and wealthiest descendant, in 1940 he was sent to Alexandria to attend the prestigious boarding school, Victoria College. He later joined his family’s business in 1946 where he worked for the family’s business in Egypt.\n\nAmong the many holdings, the family had at the time included interests in the Burmah Oil Company, Turkish Petroleum Company and the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, a textile factory, a large cotton export business and interests in both the General Company of Commerce and Industry of Greece (later Attica Enterprises Holding S.A.) and Atlas Maritime.\n\nIn 1947 Elias focused his attention on three primary sectors: the new booming oil exploration industry sweeping the Middle East, shipping and banking. With a £5000 loan from his father, Elias invested in Standard Oil adding to his family’s existing holdings in the company. That same year he married Hannah Rochel Jacque Sassoon (née de Menasche) (1929–2009), granddaughter of Baron Jacques Bohor Yacoub Levi de Menashe (d.1916).\n\nHis great-grandfather, David Solomon Sassoon (1871–1956) had been an investor in Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, which later partnered with Standard Oil to provide markets for the oil reserves in the Middle East. In 1906, SOCONY (later Mobil) opened its first fuel terminals in Alexandria with financing provided by David Solomon Sassoon. Elias Sassoon was a devoted Zionist and considered the British anything but friends to the Jewish people because of their blockade in the Mediterranean to refugee vessels carrying Jewish refugees fleeing the horrors of World War II, and although to a lesser extent, he considered the British government as culpable nonetheless in the atrocities against world Jewry.\n\nIn 1952 he cofounded Banque Du Caire with his childhood friend Moise Joseph Maurice Cattaui (1925–2009). By then Elias Sassoon had expanded his family’s business to France, Brazil, South Africa and the United States where the family exported cotton to and had maintained trading posts since the 1800s.\n\nThe Sassoons believed that Mesopotamia (now Syria and Iraq) contained substantial reservoirs of oil, the forerunner of the Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC) the Turkish Petroleum Company (TPC). David Solomon Sassoon was among the first to secure the interest of the Imperial German banks and companies, already involved in the building of the Berlin–Baghdad railway, which he played an active role in its financing. This German interest was followed by British interests when David Sassoon became an agent for the Rothschilds in Ottoman Empire. In 1911, in an attempt to bring together British and German interests competing in the region, Sassoon formed a consortium of British investors composed of banks and companies and formed the African and Eastern Concession Ltd.\n\nIn 1953 Elias Sassoon used these networks of interests to expand his family’s investment interests to include mining concessions in Africa. In 1957 the new Egyptian post-revolution government under Nasser nationalized all European particularly British and French companies and banks. The government also began expelling foreigners and the Jewish community of Egypt once again, despite its many contributions to the country’s artistic, economic, political, and academic fields found itself under the government’s harassment and intimidation, many were forced to leave the country with no more than one suitcase and most had their assets and properties seized by the Revolutionary Council.\n\nThe Sassoons were among those, whose assets were confiscated and in 1966 Elias Sassoon and his wife were taken to the port in Alexandria and expelled from the country. Elias’ wife who was an Egyptian citizen was declared non-citizen, and at the request of the Egyptian government, Elias’s Syrian citizenship was revoked. They were given laissez-passer (travel documents) and ordered aboard a ship bound for Greece, however, their son Edouard Elias Sassoon (1948–1985) who was a medical student at the University of Alexandria was denied exit visa.\n\nThe government accused Elias Sassoon of using his family’s banking network to help smuggle assets belonging to members of the Jewish community out of the country and demanded that he return his assets held in Europe before his son is allowed to leave. After paying what amounted to ransom money, totaling £4 million and the intervention of both the French and the Greek governments, Edouard Sassoon joined his family in 1971, with his wife Josephine Celine Esther (née Cattaui) (1949–1994), daughter of Moise Cattaui who was also denied exit visa after her family was expelled from the country in 1964.\n\nElias Sassoon had established Sassoon Cattaui Investment Holding (later, Providence Group), a privately-owned family hedge fund with Moise Cattaui in 1961 in Switzerland with assets from the Sassoon Family Trust, which had been formed in Lausanne, Switzerland in 1910. In 1970, the partners moved the company Curaçao (Netherlands Antilles) a private family investment group, which is not required to register with the SEC or comply with reporting requirements under the Dodd–Frank, reform act. It is said that at the time of formation of the Fund, the total value of assets under management in 1961 was £25million.\n\nThe Fund invested in commercial real estate properties in the U.S., Canada, and Greece as well as in precious metals, oil & gas, and securities. The Fund also speculated in the currency markets, among its many holdings are: BHP Billiton, the co-investor in Le Méridien Hotel company with Air France, American Express, GM, Wells Fargo Bank, HSBC, Lehman Brothers, Exxon Mobile, Conoco Phillips, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Microsoft, Sun Microsystem, Midland Bank, stockbroking firm Frankel Pollak (which was later sold to Sasfin Bank, a Sassoon family bank based in South Africa) and S&P. It is rumored that at the time of Elias Sassoon’s death, the Fund, which is not required to file its financials with the SEC had over $100 billion of assets under management, most of which are assets of both the Sassoon and Cattaui families. \n\nSassoon's eight sons also branched out in many directions. The Sassoon family was heavily involved in the shipping and opium production industry in China and India. Elias David (1820–1880), his son by his first wife, had been the first of the sons to go to China, in 1844. He later returned to Bombay, before leaving the firm to establish E. D. Sassoon in 1867, with offices in Hong Kong and Shanghai. Another son, Albert Abdullah David Sassoon (1818–1896) took on the running of the firm on his father's death, and notably constructed the Sassoon Docks, the first wet dock built in western India. With two of his brothers he later became prominent in England, and the family were friends of the Prince of Wales, later King Edward VII. One daughter of the family, Rachel Sassoon Beer bought a number of newspapers in England, including \"The Sunday Times\" (1893–1904) and \"The Observer\", which she also edited.\nOf those who settled in England, Sir Edward Albert Sassoon (1856–1912), the son of Albert, married Aline Caroline de Rothschild, and was a Conservative member of Parliament from 1899 until his death. The seat was then inherited by his son Sir Philip Sassoon (1888–1939) from 1912 until his death. Philip served in the First World War as military secretary to Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig and, during the 1920s and 1930s, as Britain's undersecretary of state for air. The twentieth-century English poet, one of the best known World War I poets, Siegfried Sassoon (1886–1967) was David's great-grandson.\n\nAnother descendant of David Sassoon is the British banker and former Treasury’s commercial secretary James Meyer Sassoon. He was mentioned in the Paradise Papers as one of the beneficiaries of a tax exempt Cayman Island trust fund worth $236 million in 2007 and defended it as being of non UK origin.\n\nThe branch which carried on the rabbinical tradition has been represented by Rabbi Solomon David Sassoon (1915–1985), who moved from Letchworth to London and then to Jerusalem in 1970. He was the son of one David Solomon Sassoon (1880–1942) who collected Jewish books and manuscripts and catalogued them in two volumes. \n\nThe bulk of this collection is stored at the British Library in London, England. Some examples of this collection are maintained at the University of Toronto Library in Toronto, Canada. Contrary to manipulative claims on the matter, none of these priceless works are presently stored in the United States. \n\nDavid Sassoon was the son of Flora Abraham, who had moved from India to England in 1901 and established a famous salon in her London home. Solomon Sassoon had two sons, Isaac S. D. Sassoon and David Solomon Sassoon, who are both rabbis.\n\n"}
{"id": "27258545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27258545", "title": "Sunda Wiwitan", "text": "Sunda Wiwitan\n\nSunda Wiwitan (Sundanese: ᮞᮥᮔ᮪ᮓ ᮝᮤᮝᮤᮒᮔ᮪, English: \"early Sunda\", \"real Sunda\", or \"original Sunda\") is a religious belief system of traditional Sundanese. It venerates the power of nature and the spirit of ancestors (animism and dynamism). \n\nThe followers of this belief system can be found in some villages in western Java, such as Kanekes, Lebak, Banten; Ciptagelar Kasepuhan Banten Kidul, Cisolok, Sukabumi; Kampung Naga; and Cigugur, Kuningan Regency. In Carita Parahyangan this faith is called \"Jatisunda\". Its practitioners assert that Sunda Wiwitan has been part of their way of life since ancient times, before the arrival of Hinduism and Islam.\n\nThe sacred book of Sunda Wiwitan is called Sanghyang siksakanda ng karesian, it is a didactic text of religious and moral guidance, rules and lessons. The text is identified as Kropak 630 by National Library of Indonesia. According to a \"kokolot\" (elder) of Cikeusik village, the people of Kanekes are not adherents to Hindu or Buddhist faiths; they follow an animistic system of belief that venerates and worships the spirits of ancestors. However, over the course of time Sunda Wiwitan has been influenced by and incorporated Hindu, and to some extent, Islamic elements.\n\nThe highest spiritual power in Sunda Wiwitan is \"Sang Hyang Kersa\" (\"The Powerful\") or \"Nu Ngersakeun\" (\"He Who has the Will\"). This supreme being is also referred to by several names or divine titles, such as \"Batara Tunggal\" (\"The One\"), \"Batara Jagat\" (\"Ruler of Universe\"), and \"Batara Seda Niskala\" (\"The Unseen\"). Sang Hyang Kersa resides in the highest and most sacred realm called \"Buana Nyungcung\" (Sundanese, lit: \"Pointy Realm\"). The Hindu gods (Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva, Indra, Yama, and so on) are considered subordinates of Sang Hyang Kersa.\n\nAccording to Sunda Wiwitan ontology, the universe consists of three realms:\n\nBetween \"Buana Nyungcung\" (the peak realm) and \"Buana Panca Tengah\" (earth), there are 18 layers of realms, arranged in decreasing order of sacredness from top to bottom. The uppermost of these heavenly realms is called \"Bumi Suci Alam Padang,\" or according to Kropak 630 (Sanghyang siksakanda ng karesian), \"Alam Kahyangan\" or \"Mandala Hyang\". This second-highest realm is the abode of Nyi Pohaci Sanghyang Asri and Sunan Ambu.\n\nSang Hyang Kersa created seven bataras in Sasaka Pusaka Buana (The Sacred Place on Earth). The oldest of these bataras is called Batara Cikal and is considered to be the ancestor of the Kanekes people. Other bataras ruled various locations in Sunda lands.\n\nThe value system of Sunda Wiwitan is based on written and unwritten (internalized) norms. The written norms are rules and taboos that govern the way of life of adherents, while the unwritten norms are internal and individual understandings of the faith. \n\nSunda Wiwitan's basic and principle concepts are based on two things: \"Cara Ciri Manusia\" and \"Cara Ciri Bangsa.\" These two principles are mentioned by Sunda Wiwitan elders, yet are not explicitly mentioned in the \"Siksa Kanda-ng Karesian,\" the sacred text of Sunda Wiwitan. \n\nCara Ciri Manusia comprises the basic elements of human life. It consists of five fundamentals: \n\nThe second concept of Cara Ciri Bangsa states that people have universals or similarities in basic human traits, yet express diversity from one individual or community to another. These elements are the source of variety among human beings: \n\nThe philosophy and value system emphasizes the internal or spiritual elements of human life, indicating that humans need spiritual guidance and wisdom in their lives.\n\nOriginally Sunda Wiwitan did not incorporate many taboos or prohibitions. The core rules of conduct consist of just two elements:\nHowever, to honor sacred places (\"Kabuyutan\", \"Sasaka Pusaka Buana\" or \"Sasaka Domas\") and follow certain traditions in rice farming, Sunda Wiwitan elaborated on many restrictions and taboos. The most numerous taboos (called \"Buyut\" by Kanekes people) are applied to those living within the most sacred place on earth—the people of Baduy Dalam that inhabit \"Sasaka Pusaka Buana\" (Sacred Place on Earth).\n\nIn Sunda Wiwitan tradition, prayer and ritual is performed through songs and chant of pantun Sunda and kidung dances. These ritual practices can be observed during the rice harvest ceremony and the annual new year festival called Seren Taun. These customary ceremonies are still performed annually by the more traditional Sundanese communities in Kanekes, Lebak, Banten; Ciptagelar Kasepuhan Banten Kidul, Cisolok, Sukabumi; Kampung Naga; and Cigugur, Kuningan. \n\nAlthough modern Sundanese people may practice Islam or adhere to other faiths, influences and value systems, certain elements of traditional customs, beliefs, and culture of Sunda Wiwitan still survive into contemporary times. In terms of influence on their social values and cultural mores, Sundanese people have never abandoned traditional Sundanese beliefs.\n\n"}
{"id": "9340499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9340499", "title": "The Skeptic Encyclopedia of Pseudoscience", "text": "The Skeptic Encyclopedia of Pseudoscience\n\nThe Skeptic Encyclopedia of Pseudoscience is a collection of articles that discuss the Skeptics Society's scientific findings of investigations into popular pseudoscientific and supernatural claims. It has been called \"a 2-volume set with an attitude.\" The editor, Michael Shermer, director of the Skeptics Society, pulled together articles originally published in \"Skeptic\" magazine with some conceptual overviews and historical documents to create this two-volume encyclopedia. Pat Linse is listed as a contributing editor. It was published by ABC-CLIO in 2002.\n\nThe encyclopedia has five sections. The first volume is composed of alphabetical write-ups on the scientific view of pseudoscientific concepts such as the \"Bermuda Triangle and dowsing, Shroud of Turin and Feng Shui, spiritualism and biorhythms, placebo effect and graphology, Alien abductions and UFOs, crop circles and astrology\", followed by a section of investigations and discussions. The second volume explores such subjects in more depth with sections containing case studies, \"for and against\" essays, and historical documents. This final section has been criticized for containing only five documents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49772161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49772161", "title": "Triune Mind, Triune Brain", "text": "Triune Mind, Triune Brain\n\nTriune Mind, Triune Brain is a theoretical model developed by Canadian Buddhist scholar Suwanda H. J. Sugunasiri. It follows upon his clarification of the three terms used by the Buddha for consciousness, namely, Mano, Citta and Viññāṇa as can be seen in his work on the Triune Mind. Looking into the fields of Pali Buddhism, Neuroscience, Anthropology, Linguistics, and Embryology, among others, the overall thrust of this research moves toward a formalization and scientific refinement, done by assimilating functions of the mind as known in the Sutta and the Abhidamma with structures of the brain according to evolutionary biology.\n\nIn this work, Sugunasiri primarily seeks to correlate Buddhist concepts with Paul MacLean’s theory of the Triune Brain - Reptilian, Paleomammalian, and Protomammalian. He shows how the Buddha’s term sattā, meaning ‘sentient being’, covers both humans and animals, each having the six senses, including the sixth mind-sense. Then he goes on to show how the concept can be helpful in reviving and understanding MacLean’s theory, reinterpreting and rebranding the three brains as Protosentient-, Paleosentient-, and Neosentient. Through the use of Pali terminology, he shows how the Buddhist analysis serves us with a fuller understanding of the theory of mind.\nMacLean’s newly branded theory meets the Buddhian (his term, meaning ‘of the Buddha’ – cf. Einstein > Einsteinian) Triune Mind, its components, Citta, Mano, and Viññāṇa characterized in the following words: “The six senses would constitute Mano, the total working of the mindbody … Viññāṇa and the vacillations in relation to values-conditioned behaviour constituting Citta.”\nInterpreted on the basis of an Abhidhamma analysis as Receiving Mind, Judging Mind, and Executive Mind respectively, they are shown to fit within Maclean’s Triune Brain structure. Taking up the Protosentient (Reptilian) brain first, he compares the functions of the Basal Ganglia (and Medulla Oblongata) with those of Citta; the Paleosentient (Paleomammalian) brain in the Hypothalamus (and Thalamus) is compared to Viññāṇa; and finally the Neosentient (Neomammalian) brain in the Amygdala aligns with Mano.\n\nWhile the parallelism is the central theme of the research, there are other critical points to his theory building. The Buddhian notion of ‘stream of consciousness’ (\"viññāṇasota\"), e.g., is explained in relation to neuronal behaviour and Citta as neuropeptides. An intriguing chapter looks at the mind in the context of embryonic development, looked at from both the Westernscientific as well as the Buddhist viewpoints. The Buddhian notion of Rebecoming is explored in relation to the evolution of the brain, and MacLean’s puzzle about an evolutionary common thread to connect non-humans of the past with humans of the present is answered by reminding us how satta ‘sentient being’ is common to animals and humans alike.\n\nWith a quick review of the Four Noble Truths, we are further reminded that sentient beings are driven by the Triple Thirsts (Sense-thirst (\"kāma taṇhā\"), ‘Thirst to be’ (\"bhava taõhà\"), ‘Thirst to be not’ (\"vibhava taṇhā\") and the Triple Blemish Roots (Passion (\"rāga\"), Hatred (\"dosa\"), Delusion (\"moha\")). Sugunasiri relates the Triple Thirsts to self-preservation (as in Western Evolutionary theory) and the Triple Blemish Roots to the continuity of the species. Responding to MacLean’s search for “Animal Mentations” and “Inherited Folklore”, Citta is shown to be the mind that serves as the medium through which they are carried across lifetimes, and life-lines where neuropeptides serve as the medium containing information relating to the stimulus, when the ‘message’ is carried through to the next neuron, jumping across the synapse, more descriptively, synaptic gap. Sugunairi writes, in what is perhaps the first attempt, in scientific terms, at explaining Rebecoming (i.e., life after life, but popularly ‘Rebirth’): “The Citta may carry the load of the Triple Thirsts and the Triple Blemish Roots through the synapse between life A and life B”. The two neurons on either side of the gap are used as paralleling two lifetimes, the first ending at death and the subsequent life beginning with conception, characterized as ‘Relinking Citta’ (\"paṭisandhi). Mitochondrial DNA is argued to be the content of Citta the neuropeptides.\n\nProf. Sugunasiri ends his work with a bit of a twist. Although the triple functions of the mind as in Buddhian characterization has been ‘housed’ in MacLean’s rebranded three brain structure, the brain is described as only the centralized home of Citta, Vinanna and Mano. He ends his book in a scientifically concise way, maintaining a non-dualistic approach to mind and body while unifying concepts of Pali Buddhism with Western Science leaving an enhanced new position in its wake.\n\nIt may be worthwhile to note that the present work is the second comparative study. Prior to this was, Dhamma Aboard Evolution: A Canonical Study of Aggañña Sutta in relation to Science (2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "10031716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10031716", "title": "Wadi Abu Jamil", "text": "Wadi Abu Jamil\n\nWadi Abu Jamil, located in Beirut's Centre Ville, is the former Jewish quarter in Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nFormally known as \"Wadi al-Yahoud\" (meaning \"Valley of the Jews\"), the quarter was the center of the Lebanese Jewish community, with Beirut's largest and most important synagogue, the Maghen Abraham Synagogue, located there. The neighborhood was home to Lebanon's centuries-old Jewish community and also for the more recent Jewish refugees from Syria and Iraq.\n\nEmigration from the community began in earnest after the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. During the 1982 Lebanon War, Yasir Arafat's PLO forces took over much of the neighborhood, which was located along the dividing line between the two sides of the Lebanese Civil War. During the war, Israeli bombardment damaged the Magen Abraham Synagogue.\nThe area today is home to fewer than 100 Lebanese Jews.\n\nRenovation of the Maghen Abraham Synagogue began in the summer of 2009. Funding for the renovation includes donations from the Lebanese Jewish Community Council and Jewish Lebanese living overseas. Isaac Arazi, the leader of the Jewish community in Lebanon has managed to raise $40,000 from private donors. Renovation is estimated to cost between $1 million and $1.5 million. Solidere, the Lebanese joint-stock company responsible for much of Central Beirut’s reconstruction, has donated $150,000 toward the renovation effort. Lebanese architect Nabil Gholam has played an important role in the redevelopment planning process.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142494", "title": "Yeshiva", "text": "Yeshiva\n\nYeshiva (; , lit. \"sitting\"; pl. , \"yeshivot\" or \"yeshivos\") is a Jewish institution that focuses on the study of traditional religious texts, primarily the Talmud and the Torah. The studying is usually done through daily \"shiurim\" (lectures or classes) as well as in study pairs called \"ḥavrutas\" (Aramaic for \"friendship\" or \"companionship\"). \"Ḥavruta\"-style learning is one of the unique features of the yeshiva.\n\nIn the United States and Israel, the different levels of yeshiva education have different names. In the United States, elementary-school students are enrolled in a \"yeshiva\", post-bar mitzvah-age students learn in a \"metivta\", and undergraduate-level students learn in a \"beit midrash\" or \"yeshiva gedola\" (, lit. \"large yeshiva\" or \"great yeshiva\"). In Israel, elementary-school students are enrolled in a \"Talmud Torah\" or \"cheder\", post-bar mitzvah-age students learn in a \"yeshiva ketana\" (, lit. \"small yeshiva\" or \"minor yeshiva\"), and high-school-age students learn in a \"yeshiva gedola\". A kollel is a yeshiva for married men. It is common for a kollel to pay a token stipend to its students. Students of Lithuanian and Hasidic yeshiva gedolas usually learn in yeshiva until they get married.\n\nHistorically, yeshivas were attended by males only. Today, all non-Orthodox and a few Modern Orthodox yeshivas are open to females. Although there are separate schools for Orthodox women and girls, yeshivas for women do not follow the same structure or curriculum as the traditional yeshiva for boys and men.\n\nAlternate spellings and names include yeshivah (; , \"sitting\" (noun); metivta and mesivta ( \"methivta\"); Beth midrash, Talmudical Academy, Rabbinical Academy; and Rabbinical School. The word \"yeshiva\", lit. \"sitting\", is applied to the activity of learning in class, and hence to a learning \"session.\"\n\nThe transference in meaning of the term from the learning session to the institution itself appears to have occurred by the time of the great Talmudic Academies in Babylonia, Sura and Pumbedita, which were known as \"shte ha-yeshivot\", \"the two colleges.\"\n\nThe Mishnah tractate Megillah mentions the law that a town can only be called a \"city\" if it supports ten men (\"batlanim\") to make up the required quorum for communal prayers. Likewise, every beth din (\"house of judgement\") was attended by a number of pupils up to three times the size of the court (Mishnah, tractate Sanhedrin). These might be indications of the historicity of the classical yeshiva. As indicated by the Talmud, adults generally took off two months a year, Elul and Adar, the months preceding the pilgrimage festivals of Sukkot and Pesach, called \"Yarḥei Kalla\" (Aramaic for \"Months of Kallah\") to study. The rest of the year, they worked.\n\nThe Geonic period takes its name from \"Gaon\", the title bestowed on the heads of the three yeshivas in existence from the third to the thirteenth century. The Geonim acted as the principals of their individual yeshivot, and as spiritual leaders and high judges for the wider communities tied to them. The yeshiva conducted all official business in the name of its Gaon, and all correspondence to or from the yeshiva was addressed directly to the Gaon.\n\nThroughout the Geonic Period there were three yeshivot. These were named for the cities in which they were located: Jerusalem, Sura, and Pumbedita; the yeshiva of Jerusalem would later relocate to Cairo, and the yeshivot of Sura and Pumbedita to Baghdad, but retain their original names. Each Jewish community would associate itself with one of the three yeshivot; Jews living around the Mediterranean typically followed the yeshiva in Jerusalem, while those living in the Arabian Peninsula and modern-day Iraq and Iran typically followed one of the two yeshivot in Baghdad. There was however, no requirement for this, and each community could choose to associate with any of the yeshivot.\n\nThe yeshiva served as the highest educational institution for the Rabbis of this period. In addition to this, the yeshiva wielded immense power as the principal body for interpreting Jewish law. In this regard, the community saw the Gaon of a yeshiva as the highest judge on all matters of Jewish law. Each yeshiva ruled differently on matters of ritual and law; the other yeshivot accepted these divisions, and all three ranked as equally orthodox. The yeshiva also served as an administrative authority, in conjunction with local communities, by appointing members to serve as the head of local congregations. Those appointed as the head of a congregation would serve as a go-between for the local congregation and the larger yeshiva it was attached to. These local leaders would also submit questions to the yeshiva to obtain final rulings on issues of dogma, ritual, or law. Each congregation was expected to follow only one yeshiva to prevent conflict with different rulings issued by different yeshivot.\n\nThe yeshivot were financially supported through a number of means. There were fixed, but voluntary, yearly contributions made to the yeshivas; these annual contributions were collected and handled by the local leaders appointed by the yeshiva. Private gifts and donations from individuals were also common, especially during holidays, and could consist of money or goods.\n\nThe yeshiva of Jerusalem was finally forced into exile in Cairo in 1127, and eventually dispersed entirely. Likewise, the yeshivot of Sura and Pumbedita were dispersed following the Mongol invasions of the 13th century. After the scattering of the yeshiva, education in Jewish religious studies became the responsibility of individual synagogues. No organization ever came to replace the three great yeshivot of Jerusalem, Sura and Pumbedita.\n\nAfter the Geonic Period Jews went on to establishing more Yeshiva academies in Europe and in Northern Africa. One of these include the Kairuan yeshiva in Spain (Hebrew: ישיבת קאירואן) that was established by Chushiel Ben Elchanan (Hebrew: חושיאל בן אלחנן) in 974.\n\nTraditionally, every town rabbi had the right to maintain a number of full-time or part-time pupils in the town's beth midrash (study hall, usually adjacent to the synagogue). Their cost of living was covered by community taxation. After a number of years, these young people would either take up a vacant rabbinical position elsewhere (after obtaining semicha, rabbinical ordination) or join the workforce.\n\nOrganised Torah study was revolutionised by Rabbi Chaim Volozhin, a disciple of the Vilna Gaon (an influential 18th-century leader of Judaism). In his view, the traditional arrangement did not cater for those who were looking for more intensive study.\n\nWith the support of his teacher, Rabbi Volozhin gathered a large number of interested students and started a yeshiva in the (now Belarusian) town of Volozhin. Although the Volozhin yeshiva was closed some 60 years later due to the Russian government's demands for the introduction of certain secular studies, a number of yeshivot opened in other towns and cities, most notably Slabodka, Panevėžys, Mir, Brisk, and Telz. Many prominent contemporary \"yeshivot\" in the United States and Israel are continuations of these institutions and often bear the same name.\n\nIn the 19th century, Rabbi Israel Salanter initiated the Mussar movement in non-Hasidic Lithuanian Jewry, which sought to encourage yeshiva students and the wider community to spend regular times devoted to the study of Jewish ethical works. Concerned by the new social and religious changes of the Haskalah (secularising movement), and emerging political ideologies such as Zionism, that often opposed traditional Judaism, the masters of Mussar saw a need to augment Talmudic study with more personal works. These comprised earlier classic Jewish ethical texts (mussar literature), as well as a new literature for the movement. By focusing the student on self-understanding and introspection, often with profound psychological insight, the spiritual aims of Judaism could be internalized. After early opposition, the Lithuanian yeshivah world saw the need for this new component in their curriculum, and set aside times for individual mussar study and mussar talks (\"mussar shmues\"). A spiritual mentor (mashgiach ruchani) encouraged the personal development of each student. To some degree also, this Lithuanian movement arose in response, and as an alternative, to the separate mystical study of the Hasidic Judaism world. Hasidism began previously, in the 18th Century, within traditional Jewish life in the Ukraine, and spread to Hungary, Poland and Russia. As the 19th Century brought upheavals and threats to traditional Judaism, the Mussar teachers saw the benefit of the new spiritual focus in Hasidism, and developed their alternative ethical approach to spirituality.\n\nSome variety developed within Lithuanian yeshivas to methods of studying Talmud and \"mussar\", for example the contrast between breadth (\"beki'ut\") and depth (\"iyyun\"), or the place given to pilpul (the type of casuistic argumentation popular from the 16th to 18th centuries). The new analytical approach of the Brisker method, developed by Rabbi Chaim Soloveitchik of Brisk, has become widely popular, though there are other approaches such as those of Mir, Chofetz Chaim, and Telz. In \"mussar\", different schools developed, such as Slabodka and Novhardok, though today, a decline in devoted spiritual self-development from its earlier intensity has to some extent levelled out the differences.\n\nWith the success of the yeshiva institution in Lithuanian Jewry, the Hasidic world developed their own yeshivas, in their areas of Eastern Europe. These comprised the traditional Jewish focus on Talmudic literature that is central to Rabbinic Judaism, augmented by study of Hasidic philosophy (Hasidism). Examples of these Hasidic yeshivas are the Chabad Lubavitch yeshiva system of Tomchei Temimim, founded by Sholom Dovber Schneersohn in Russia in 1897, and the Chachmei Lublin Yeshiva established in Poland in 1930 by Meir Shapiro, who is renowned in both Hasidic and Lithuanian Jewish circles for initiating the Daf Yomi daily cycle of Talmud study.\n\nIn many Hasidic yeshivas, study of Hasidic texts is a secondary activity, similar to the additional mussar curriculum in Lithuanian yeshivas. These paths see Hasidism as a means to the end of inspiring emotional \"devekut\" (spiritual attachment to God) and mystical enthusiasm. In this context, the personal pilgrimage of a Hasid to his Rebbe is a central feature of spiritual life, in order to awaken spiritual fervour. Often, such paths will reserve the Shabbat in the yeshiva for the sweeter teachings of the classic texts of Hasidism. In contrast, Chabad and Breslov, in their different ways, place daily study of their dynasties' Hasidic texts in central focus. Illustrative of this is Sholom Dovber Schneersohn's wish in establishing the Chabad yeshiva system, that the students should spend a part of the daily curriculum learning Chabad Hasidic texts \"with pilpul\". Pilpul is the in-depth analytical investigation of a topic, traditionally reserved for the profound nuances of Talmudic study. The idea to learn Hasidic mystical texts with similar logical profundity, derives from the unique approach in the works of the Rebbes of Chabad, initiated by its founder Schneur Zalman of Liadi, to systematically investigate and articulate the \"Torah of the Baal Shem Tov\" in intellectual forms. Further illustrative of this is the differentiation in Chabad thought (such as the \"Tract on Ecstasy\" by Dovber Schneuri) between general Hasidism's emphasis on emotional enthusiasm and the Chabad ideal of intellectually reserved ecstasy. In the Breslov movement, in contrast, the daily study of works from the imaginative, creative radicalism of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov awakens the necessary soulfulness with which to approach other Jewish study and observance.\n\nAlthough the yeshiva as an institution is in some ways a continuation of the Talmudic Academies in Babylonia, large scale educational institutions of this kind were not characteristic of the North African and Middle Eastern Sephardi Jewish world in pre-modern times: education typically took place in a more informal setting in the synagogue or in the entourage of a famous rabbi. In medieval Spain, and immediately following the expulsion in 1492, there were some schools which combined Jewish studies with sciences such as logic and astronomy, similar to the contemporary Islamic madrasas. In 19th-century Jerusalem, a college was typically an endowment for supporting ten adult scholars rather than an educational institution in the modern sense; towards the end of the century a school for orphans was founded providing for some rabbinic studies. Early educational institutions on the European model were Midrash Bet Zilkha founded in 1870s Iraq and Porat Yosef Yeshiva founded in Jerusalem in 1914. Also notable is the Bet El yeshiva founded in 1737 in Jerusalem for advanced Kabbalistic studies. Later Sephardic yeshivot are usually on the model either of Porat Yosef or of the Ashkenazi institutions.\n\nThe Sephardic world has traditionally placed the study of esoteric Jewish mysticism (Kabbalah) in a more mainstream position that in the European Ashkenazi world. This difference of emphasis arose in reaction to the historical events of the Sabbatean heresy in the 17th Century, that suppressed widespread study of Kabbalah in Europe in favour of the strength of Rabbinic Talmudic study. In Eastern European Lithuanian life, Kabbalah was reserved for an intellectual elite, while the mystical revival of Hasidism articulated Kabbalistic theology through Hasidic thought. These factors did not affect the Sephardi Jewish world, which retained a wider connection to Kabbalah in its traditionally observant communities. With the establishment of Sephardi yeshivas in Israel, after the immigration of the Arabic Jewish communities there, some Sephardi yeshivas incorporated study of more accessible Kabbalistic texts into their curriculum. Nonetheless, the European prescriptions to reserve advanced Kabbalistic study to mature and elite students also influence the choice of texts in such yeshivas.\n\nIn 1854, the Jewish Theological Seminary of Breslau was founded. It was headed by Zecharias Frankel, and was viewed as the first educational institution associated with \"positive-historical Judaism\" (the predecessor of Conservative Judaism). In subsequent years, Conservative Judaism established a number of other institutions of higher learning (such as the Jewish Theological Seminary of America in New York City) that emulate the style of traditional yeshivas in significant ways. However, many do not officially refer to themselves as \"yeshivas\" (one exception is the Conservative Yeshiva in Jerusalem), and all are open to both women and men, who study in the same classrooms and follow the same curriculum. Students may study part-time, as in a kollel, or full-time, and they may study \"lishmah\" (for the sake of studying itself) or towards earning rabbinic ordination.\n\nNon-denominational yeshivas and kollels with connections to Conservative Judaism include Yeshivat Hadar in New York, the leaders of whom include Rabbinical Assembly members Elie Kaunfer and Shai Held. The rabbinical school of the Academy for Jewish Religion in California (AJR-CA) is led by Conservative rabbi Mel Gottlieb. The faculty of the Academy for Jewish Religion in New York and of the Rabbinical School of Hebrew College in Newton Centre, Massachusetts also includes a large number of Conservative rabbis.\n\nHebrew Union College (HUC), affiliated with Reform Judaism, was founded in 1875 under the leadership of Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise in Cincinnati, Ohio. HUC later opened additional locations in New York, Los Angeles, and Jerusalem. It is a rabbinical seminary or college mostly geared for the training of rabbis and clergy specifically. Similarly, the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College of Reconstructionist Judaism, founded in Pennsylvania in 1968, functions to train its future clergy. Some Reform and Reconstructionist teachers also teach at non-denominational seminaries like the Academy for Jewish Religion in New York, the Academy for Jewish Religion in California, and the Rabbinical School of Hebrew College. In Europe, Reform Judaism trains rabbis at Leo Baeck College in London , UK and Abraham Geiger Kolleg in Potsdam, Germany. None of these institutions describes itself as a \"yeshiva\".\n\nTraditionally, religious girls' schools are not called \"yeshiva.\" The Bais Yaakov system was started in 1918 under the guidance of Sarah Schenirer. This system provided girls with a Torah education, using a curriculum that skewed more toward practical Halakha and the study of Tanakh, rather than Talmud. Bais Yaakovs are strictly Haredi schools. Non-Haredi girls' schools' curricula often includes the study of Mishnah and sometimes Talmud. They are also sometimes called \"yeshiva\" (e.g., Prospect Park Yeshiva). Post-high schools for women are generally called \"seminary\" or \"midrasha\".\n\nLearning at an Orthodox yeshiva includes Torah study; the study of Rabbinic literature, especially the Talmud (Rabbinic Judaism's central work); and the study of Responsa for Jewish observance, and alternatively ethical (Musar) or mystical (Hasidic philosophy) texts. In some institutions, classical Jewish philosophy texts or Kabbalah are studied, or the works of individual thinkers (such as Abraham Isaac Kook).\n\nNon-Orthodox institutions offer a synthesis of traditional and critical methods, allowing Jewish texts and tradition to encounter social change and modern scholarship. The curriculum focuses on classical Jewish subjects, including Talmud, Tanakh, Midrash, Halacha, and Philosophy, with an openness to modern scholarship.\n\nYeshiva students prepare for and review the \"shiur\" with their \"chavruta\" during a study session known as a \"seder\". In contrast to conventional classroom learning, in which a teacher lectures to the student and the student repeats the information back in tests, \"chavruta\"-style learning challenges the student to analyze and explain the material, point out the errors in his partner's reasoning, and question and sharpen each other's ideas, often arriving at entirely new insights of the meaning of the text. A \"chavruta\" helps a student keep his mind focused on the learning, sharpen his reasoning powers, develop his thoughts into words, organize his thoughts into logical arguments, and understand another person's viewpoint.\n\nChavruta-style learning tends to be loud and animated, as the study partners read the Talmudic text and the commentaries aloud to each other, and then analyze, question, debate, and even argue their points of view to arrive at an understanding of the text. In the heat of discussion, they may even wave their hands, pound the table, or shout at each other. Depending on the size of the yeshiva, dozens or even hundreds of pairs of chavrutas can be heard discussing and debating each other's viewpoints. One of the skills of chavruta-style learning is the ability to block out all other discussions in the study hall and focus on one's \"chavruta\" alone.\n\nIn most yeshivot, the year is divided into three periods (terms) called \"zmanim\". Elul zman starts from the beginning of the Hebrew month of Elul and extends until the end of Yom Kippur. This is the shortest (approx. six weeks), but most intense semester as it comes before the High Holidays of Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. Winter zman starts after Sukkot and lasts until about two weeks before Passover, a duration of five months (six in a Jewish leap year). Summer semester starts after Passover and lasts until Rosh Chodesh Av or Tisha B'Av, a duration of about three months.\n\nIn the typical Orthodox yeshiva, the main emphasis is on Talmud study and analysis. Generally, two parallel Talmud streams are covered during a \"zman\" (trimester). The first is study in-depth (\"iyyun\"), often confined to selected legally focused tractates, with an emphasis on analytical skills and close reference to the classical commentators; the second seeks to cover ground more speedily, to build general knowledge (\"beki'ut\") of the Talmud.\n\nIn the yeshiva system of talmudic study the first area to be mastered are eight \"mesechtohs\" (volumes that deal with a given subject which are divided into chapters that deal with sub-topics relating to the general subject) that deal with civil jurisprudence. These are the \"mesechtohs\" that are studied in undergraduate yeshivot. These eight volumes are mastered first because it is with these subjects that a student can best master the technique of proper analysis of the talmud. Only after this technique is mastered is a student ready to go on to other areas of the talmud and develop a scholarship in all areas of the Talmud.\n\nWorks generally studied to clarify the Talmudic text are the commentary by Rashi and the analyses of the Tosafists and other \"rishonim\" (commentators from the 11th to 14th centuries). There are two schools of \"rishonim\", one from France and the other from Spain who will sometimes hold different interpretations and understandings of the Talmud. Various other \"mefarshim\" (commentators), from later generations are also used.\n\nGenerally, a period is devoted to the study of practical \"halacha\" (Jewish law). The text most commonly studied in Ashkenazic Yeshivot is the \"Mishnah Berurah\" written by Rabbi Yisrael Meir Kagan, the Chofetz Chaim. The \"Mishnah Berurah\" is a compilation of \"halachic\" opinions rendered after the time of the writing of the \"Shulchan Aruch\". In Sephardic Yeshivot, the Shulhan Arukh itself is more commonly studied. The Bet Yosef is also more widely studied in Sepharadic Yeshivot.\n\nThe preeminent mussar (ethical) text studied in \"yeshivot\" is the \"Mesillat Yesharim\" (\"Path [of the] Just\") by Rabbi Moshe Chaim Luzzatto. Other works of mussar literature studied include:\n\nHasidic yeshivot study the mystical, spiritual works of Hasidic philosophy (\"Chassidus\"). This draws on the earlier esoteric theology of Kabbalah, but articulates it in terms of inner psychological awareness and personal analogies. This makes Jewish mysticism accessible and tangible, so that it inspires emotional dveikus (cleaving to God) and spiritual contribution to daily Jewish life. This serves some similar purposes to mussar, but through different means and with different contributions to intellectual and emotional life. Chabad yeshivot, for example, study the Tanya, the Likutei Torah, and the voluminous works of the Rebbes of Chabad for an hour and a half each morning, before prayers, and an hour and a half in the evening. Many Yeshivot in Israel belonging to the Religious Zionism study the writings of Rav Kook, who articulated a unique personal blend of mysticism, creative exegesis and philosophy.\n\nIntensive study of the Torah (Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy with the commentary of Rashi (Rabbi Shlomo Yitzhaqi 1040 - 1105) is stressed and taught in all elementary grades, often with Yiddish translations and more notes in Haredi yeshivas.\n\nThe teaching of Tanakh, Hebrew Bible, is usually only done on the high school level, and students read the weekly Torah portion by themselves (known as the obligation of \"Shnayim mikra ve-echad targum\", \"Hebrew Bible twice and Aramaic Targum once\"). Exceptions are the five Megilloth and Tehillim. Since their inception, Modern Orthodox yeshivot in Israel, offer courses in many, if not most, of the books of Nevi'im and Ketuvim.\n\nSome Yeshivas permit students to attend college on a limited basis, (although often not encouraged) and this is facilitated by arrangements for the above study to receive credit towards a degree.\n\nIn most Lithuanian and Hasidic yeshivot throughout the world, classes are taught in Yiddish; Modern Orthodox, Zionist or \"baal teshuvah\" yeshivot may use Israeli Hebrew or the local language. Students learn with each other in whatever language they are most proficient in, with Hasidic students usually learning in Yiddish, Israeli Lithuanian students in Hebrew, and American Lithuanian students in English.\n\nYeshivish, also \"Frumspeak\", is a term used somewhat jokingly for the Yiddish- and Hebrew- influenced English used in Orthodox yeshivas in America.\n\n"}
