{"id": "22897285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22897285", "title": "Abdul Bari (Taliban commander, Helmand)", "text": "Abdul Bari (Taliban commander, Helmand)\n\nMullah Abdul Bari (died )\nwas alleged to be a Taliban commander.\nHe is reported to have been killed with 29 other fighters.\n\nMullah Noormal, a Taliban commander involved in the Taliban's successful capture of Musa Qala, told \"Asia Times\" that Abdul Bari was in overall command of the attack.\n\nAnother Taliban commander named Mullah Abdul Bari was reported killed in Uruzgan Province on April 1, 2009.\n"}
{"id": "168328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168328", "title": "Adultery in literature", "text": "Adultery in literature\n\nThe theme of adultery has been used in a wide range of literature through the ages, and has served as a theme for some notable works such as \"Anna Karenina\" and \"Madame Bovary\". As a theme it brings intense emotions into the foreground, and has consequences for all concerned. It also automatically brings its own conflict, between the people concerned and between sexual desires and a sense of loyalty.\n\nAs marriage and family are often regarded as basis of society a story of adultery often shows the conflict between social pressure and individual struggle for happiness. \n\nAccording to the American author Tom Perrotta, the novel of adultery is one of the leading 19th century literary tradition in Europe and in the United States. He states that these novels often feature women whose unhappy marriages push them into seeking romance and illicit sex. The main topic of these novels is the rebel-woman who seeks salvation for her unhappy public love-life.\n\nIn the Bible, incidents of adultery are present almost from the start. The story of Abraham contains several incidents and serve as warnings or stories of sin and forgiveness. Abraham attempts to continue his blood line through his wife's maidservant, with consequences that continue through history. Jacob's family life is complicated with similar incidents.\n\nThe following works of literature have adultery and its consequences as one of their major themes. (M) and (F) stand for \"adulterer\" and \"adulteress\" respectively.\n\n\n\n\nHawthorne, Nathaniel. \"Foreword\". \"The Scarlet Letter,\" Foreword by Tom Perrotta, Penguin, 2015, pp. vii-x.\n"}
{"id": "8628185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8628185", "title": "Afrikaans speaking population in South Africa", "text": "Afrikaans speaking population in South Africa\n\nSouth African census figures suggest a growing number of first language Afrikaans speakers in all nine provinces, a total of 6.85 million in 2011 compared to 5.98 million a decade earlier. The 2001 Namibian census reported that 11.4% of Namibians had Afrikaans as their home language.\n\nThe South African Institute of Race Relations (SAIRR) project that a growing majority will be Coloured Afrikaans speakers. Afrikaans speakers enjoy higher employment rates than other South African language groups, despite half a million who are unemployed.\n\nThe number of Afrikaans speakers according to the census of 2001 in South Africa by district municipal boundaries were as follows:\n"}
{"id": "15812010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15812010", "title": "Alta Club", "text": "Alta Club\n\nThe Alta Club is a private club in downtown Salt Lake City, Utah, named for a local mining district. It was founded in 1883, 13 years before Utah's accession as a state. The Alta Club serves as a forum for business development and social interaction, and offers facilities for dining, social events, business meetings, and health and wellness.\n\nThe Clubhouse is located at 100 East South Temple.\n\nBy the late 1800s the territory known as Utah had a burgeoning economy. As a result, several affluent groups formed out of the mining and smelting industry. One such group took it upon themselves to create a gentlemen’s social club modeled after the prestigious Union Club of San Francisco. A proposal outlining the club's formation was mailed to prospective members. \n\nFollowing recruitment the Alta Club was founded in 1883 by eighty-one charter members, thirteen years before Utah became a state. The club was organized as a social club \"to present the comforts and luxuries of a home together with the attraction to its members of meeting each other in a pleasant and social way.\"\n\nAlthough it is widely believed that the founding members only allowed “Gentiles” or those who were not of the Mormon faith to join, that soon changed. Not long after the clubs formation, their resistance to those of the Mormon faith shifted. The first Mormon member was William Jennings, a former mayor of Salt Lake City, joining in 1885. \n\nThe years of Prohibition brought new challenges to the club. Simon Bamberger, who joined the club in 1904, was one of the Eighteenth Amendment's strongest proponents. However, not everyone in the club shared his vision for a dry state. In the years since its repeal, rumors and stories surfaced telling of the various ways members got their hands on “hooch” and brought it into the club. \n\nOn March 3, 1883, 81 charter members formally signed the Alta Club Articles of Incorporation. An opening ceremony was held in Liberty Park. In addition to the 81 charter members, in attendance was Wilford Woodruff, a later president of the LDS Church, and Utah territorial Governor Eli H. Murray. The club took up its first residence in the Alta Block, located at 21 West 200 South. In 1892, the Alta Club moved to the top floor of the newly constructed Dooly Block at 109 West 200 South, which was designed by architect Louis Sullivan of Chicago (Adler and Sullivan).\n\nFounded in 1883, the club was originally located in the old Alta Block, midway between Main Street and West Temple on Second South. In 1892, the Club moved to occupy the two top floors of the newly built Dooley Building. The Club remained at this location until June 1898.\n\nConstruction of a new clubhouse began in 1897 and was completed in less than a year by builder George Cushing. On June 1, 1898 the new building formally opened. The site selected for the current clubhouse was purchased for $15,000 from Harriet Hooper Young, wife of Willard Young, who was the son of LDS President Brigham Young. The Alta Club building was designed by Frederick Albert Hale in Italian Renaissance style.\n\nIn 1910 the East wing was added, almost doubling the size of the original clubhouse. For reasons unknown the original stone could not be matched; old and new stone from a different quarry were mixed in the addition. At that time a new entrance was built on South Temple Street. A stairway was added to the older State Street entrance to provide direct access to the second floor. This became known as the ladies entrance, as women were restricted to the upper floors. \n\nIn 1958 the Club acquired land located on the north side of South Temple Street for a parking lot. In 1993 the addition of a fitness center was completed with the goal of attracting new members. \n\nIn 2001 a $4 million renovation project was completed. A major area of renovation was the third floor, which had not been used since the 1950s due to a fire. The Alta Club’s third floor now boasts twenty elegant guest rooms. The construction of a new parking lot on the south side of South Temple will be completed in 2014.\n\nOngoing renovations, along with caring membership and staff, maintain what has become one of Salt Lake’s most beautiful and long-lasting buildings.\n\nThe Great Depression was a difficult time for everyone, including the “rich man’s club.” At one point in 1933, our financial situation became so desperate that the Board decided to entirely waive initiation fees for 90 days, in hopes of encouraging people to join and pay monthly dues. In 1936 the Directors authorized the purchase of two slot machines. This controversial idea helped restore the Club to fiscal health.\n\nIn 1987 the Alta Club welcomed its first non-widow women members. Deedee Corradini, then a Chamber of Commerce executive and later mayor of Salt Lake City; Genevieve Atwood, Utah State Geologist; and Annette P. Cumming, a prominent local philanthropist, became the first female members. In 2008, the Alta Club elected Ceri Jones as their first female president.\n\nThe Alta Club offers a formal dining room, meeting and social rooms, a bar, a grill, card room, billiards, a member library, 20 guest rooms, a salon, and fitness center. \n\nSpecial annual events include: New Year's Reception, Sweethearts Dinner, St. Patricks Day Celebration, Mother's, Father's, and Easter Celebrations, Thanksgiving and Christmas Eve Dinner, and much more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30170994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30170994", "title": "An-Nasir Ahmad (Zaidi imam)", "text": "An-Nasir Ahmad (Zaidi imam)\n\nAn-Nasir Ahmad (died 5 June, 934) was the third imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen. Through his active leadership he confirmed and expanded the polity founded by his two predecessors.\n\nAhmad bin Yahya was born in Medina (present-day Saudi Arabia) as the son of the later imam al-Hadi ila'l-Haqq Yahya and Fatimah bint Al-Hasan. In 897 he followed his father and his brother Muhammad to Yemen, where al-Hadi was acknowledged as the first imam of the Zaydiyya branch of Shi'a Islam in Yemen. By 907 he was assisting his father as military commander. After a sojourn in Medina he returned to the Zaidi capital in Yemen, Sa'dah, where he was chosen to succeed his brother al-Murtada Muhammad in September 913. Al-Murtada had abdicated in 912 under somewhat unclear circumstances, and seemingly supported the appointment of Ahmad. The new imam took the honorific title an-Nasir Ahmad. He was considered an efficacious ruler; one of his adherents composed a panegyric text which described the imam as the one who strengthened Islam after it had become weak.\n\nThe long reign of an-Nasir Ahmad was filled with struggles against the adherents of the Fatimids, who also had a strong following in parts of Yemen. The imam gathered troops among the tribesmen of Hamdan, Najran and Khawlan to fight the Fatimid da'i. In January 920 he met the Ismailite leader Abd al-Hamid of Jabal Maswar in a three-days battle at Nughash outside San'a. Abd al-Hamid suffered a disastrous defeat which shattered the Ismailite influence in Yemen irrevocably. After a fairly successful rule, an-Nasir Ahmad died in 934 (or, according to other sources, in 927 or 937). He left six sons, called al-Mukhtar al-Qasim, Isma'il, al-Muntakhab al-Hasan, Ja'far. al-Mansur Yahya, and Ali. Three of these claimed the imamate after him, and the Zaidi state entered a fairly obscure period.\n\n"}
{"id": "37487423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37487423", "title": "Aranmula International Airport", "text": "Aranmula International Airport\n\nAranmula International Airport was an airport project planned to be built at Aranmula, Kerala in India, at a cost of . The airport never received the necessary clearances and the project was abandoned. The airport was proposed to be built on about of land. The controversial project faced strong protest from environmentalists and opposition parties of Kerala. After the Supreme Court of India ratified an order of National Green Tribunal verdict declaring Aranmula Airport Project in violation of environmental requirements, the Govt of India withdrew its sanction for the Airport. This led to the termination of the project.\nThe project is now totally discarded. Now this is a dropped project.\n\nThe Kerala government had provided an in principle approval for the airport during the Left Democratic Front regime in 2009, with the condition that the promoters procure sufficient land on their own. The Central Government gave the green signal for the proposed airport in October 2012 and the project was estimated to be completed within 18 months. An executive summary of the project including the anticipated environmental impact was prepared by Chennai-based Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd. and was submitted to the Government of India. However, the Environmental clearance for the project was not granted.\n\nThe Legislative Assembly Committee on Environmental Affairs chaired by C P Mohammed MLA found the Airport Project \"highly detrimental to the environment\" The Project met with opposition right from its initial stages from leaders of various streams of society including Social Worker Kummanam Rajasekharan, Poetess-cum-Environmentalist Sugathakumari and Politician V. M. Sudheeran. Allegations of discrepancies in awarding clearances through easy processes have been raised, adding to the project's controversies. .\n\nThe Kerala State Biodiversity Board submitted a report to the government in March 2013, expressing its reservations over \"the land use changes and ecological imbalance that the project will entail\"\n\nOn 2 April 2013, National Green Tribunal Act granted an interim stay on the project banning any construction at the site. It also stayed the Kerala Government's order to convert the 500 acres of land for industrial purpose until further orders. The airport project was given environmental clearance by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, New Delhi on 19 November 2013. The national green tribunal canceled the environmental clearance on 28 May 2014. The promoters failed to overturn this order in the Supreme court of India which lead to the abandonment of the project.\n\nThe project is now totally discarded. Now this is a dropped project since 2014\n"}
{"id": "52342138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52342138", "title": "Cannabis in Costa Rica", "text": "Cannabis in Costa Rica\n\nThe consumption of Cannabis in Costa Rica is nominally illegal; however, personal consumption does not carry any criminal penalties. The sale of marijuana, however, can be punished criminally.\n\nLaws in Costa Rica are vague on the topic of the legality of marijuana. According to The Costa Rica News, \"The Narcotics Law No. 8204 says that it's illegal to sell and produce marijuana on a big scale. It's also illegal to carry marijuana of more than a small dose. That said, the law doesn’t specify how much marijuana qualifies as a 'small dose' or if it's legal to grow the plant for personal use.\" Many have interpreted this vagueness in the law to mean personal consumption in small dosages are legal in private areas.\n"}
{"id": "13795582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13795582", "title": "Cape Verdeans in the Netherlands", "text": "Cape Verdeans in the Netherlands\n\nCape Verdeans in the Netherlands consist of migrants from Cape Verde to the Netherlands and their descendants. , figures from Statistics Netherlands showed 20,961 people of Cape Verdean origin in the Netherlands (people from Cape Verde, or those with a parent from there).\n\nEarly migration from Cape Verde to the Netherlands began in the 1960s and 1970s. The migrants consisted primarily of young men who had signed on as sailors on Dutch ships, and as such they concentrated primarily in the port city of Rotterdam, especially the Heemraadsplein area. Another wave of migration began in 1975, following the independence of Cape Verde from Portugal; this new wave of migrants comprised primarily teachers, soldiers, and other lower officials of the former government. There was an immigration amnesty for Cape Verdean migrants in 1976.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2010, the number of Cape Verdeans in the Netherlands recorded by Statistics Netherlands grew by roughly 25% from a base of 16,662 people; about three-quarters of the growth in that period was in the 2nd-generation category (people born in the Netherlands to one or two migrant parents from Cape Verde).\n\nApproximately 90% live in the Rotterdam metropolitan area. In Rotterdam, the largest concentration live in Delfshaven, where they make up about 8.8% of the borough's population. The city has more than 60 Cape Verdean civil organisations. Smaller groups can be found in other cities such as Schiedam, Amsterdam, Zaanstad, and Delfzijl.\n\nCape Verdeans generally have better labour market outcomes than other migrant groups like Turks or Moroccans, similar to those of Surinamese, but worse than those of natives. The various Cape Verdean-run hair salons of Rotterdam often serve as gathering points for the women of the community. Other common ethnic business niches include transport businesses and travel agencies.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33540660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33540660", "title": "Cebaara language", "text": "Cebaara language\n\nCebaara (Tyebala), one of a cluster of languages called Senari, is a major Senufo language, spoken by a million people in Ivory Coast.\n"}
{"id": "90240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90240", "title": "Centeōtl", "text": "Centeōtl\n\nIn Aztec mythology, Centeōtl (also known as Centeocihuatl or Cinteotl) is the maize deity. \"Cintli\" means \"dried maize still on the cob\" and \"teōtl\" means \"deity\". According to the Florentine Codex, Centeotl is the son of the earth goddess, Tlazolteotl and solar deity Piltzintecuhtli, the planet Mercury. Born on the day-sign 1 Xochitl. Another myth claims him as the son of the goddess Xochiquetzal. The majority of evidence gathered on Centeotl suggests that he is usually portrayed as a young man (although a debate is still ongoing), with yellow body colouration. Some specialists believe that Centeotl used to be the maize goddess Chicomecōātl. Centeotl was considered one of the most important deities of the Aztec era. There are many common features that are shown in depictions of Centeotl. For example, there often seems to be maize in his headdress. Another striking trait is the black line passing down his eyebrow, through his cheek and finishing at the bottom of his jaw line. These face markings are similarly and frequently used in the late post-classic depictions of the 'foliated' Maya maize god.\n\nAccording to sources Cinteotl is the god of maize and subsistence and Centeotl corresponds to Chicomecoatl, the goddess of agriculture.\n\nIn the Tonalpohualli (a 260-day sacred calendar used by many ancient Mesoamerican cultures), Centeotl is the Lord of the Day for days with number seven and he is the fourth Lord of the Night. In Aztec mythology, maize (which was called Cintli in Nahuatl, the Aztec spoken language) was brought to this world by Quetzalcoatl and it is associated with the group of stars known commonly today as the Pleiades.\n\nAt the beginning of the year (most likely around February time), Aztec workers would plant the young maize. These young maize plants potentially were used as symbolism for a pretty goddess, most likely \"Chicomecōātl\", Princess of the Unripe Maize. \"Chicomecōātl\" is usually depicted carrying fresh maize in her hands, bare-breasted and sitting down in a modest manner. An interesting conflict exists in that some historians believe \"Chicomecōātl\", otherwise known as 'the hairy one' and Centeotl are the same deity. When the seeds were planted, a ritual dance occurred in order to thank Mother Earth and more specifically Centeotl. These dances became increasingly more prominent as the warmth of the sun brought about great prosperity for the Aztecs in the form of sprouting maize canes. This festival has been compared to the more Western maypole festival due to the similarity of their celebrations (dancing for spring, feasting, etc.). These festivals were probably very pleasant for the Aztecs, judging by similar festivals in other civilizations. A major custom in Mexico during this festival period was for female Aztecs, regardless of marital status to loosen their ponchos and let down their hair. They would proceed to dance bare-breasted in the maize fields in order to thank Centeotl for his work. Then each female would pick five ears of corn from the field and bring it back in a grand procession while singing and dancing. Women in these processions were the promises of food and life in the Aztec world. Traditionally massive fights would break out as people tried to soak one another in flower pollen or scented maize flour. Also flower petals were thrown in ceremonial fashion over people who were carrying the ears of corn.\n\nCorn was rather essential to Aztec life and thus the importance of Centeotl cannot be overlooked. It can be seen from countless historical sources that a lot of the maize that was cultivated by the Aztecs was used in sacrifices to Gods. Usually at least five newly ripened maize cobs were picked by the older Aztec women. These were then carried on the female’s backs after being carefully wrapped up, somewhat like a mother would wrap up a newborn child. Once the cobs reached their destination, usually outside a house, they were placed in a special corn basket and would stay there until the following year. This was meant to represent the resting of the maize spirits until the next harvesting period came around.\n\nThese five cobs were also symbols for a seemingly separate goddess. This highly worshipped goddess was known as Lady Chicomecoatl, Seven Serpents. She was the earth spirit and the lady of fertility and life, seen as a kind of mother figure in the Aztec world and was the partner of Centeotl.\n\n"}
{"id": "19516681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19516681", "title": "Cognitive Systems Research", "text": "Cognitive Systems Research\n\nCognitive Systems Research is a scientific journal that covers all topics in the study of cognitive science, both natural and artificial cognitive systems. It is published by Elsevier. The journal publishes 4 issues a year and is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Science Citation Index. According to the Journal Citation Reports, its 2016 impact factor is 1.182.\nThe editor in chief is Péter Érdi of Kalamazoo College.\n\n"}
{"id": "2318057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2318057", "title": "Common ownership", "text": "Common ownership\n\nCommon ownership refers to holding the assets of an organization, enterprise or community indivisibly rather than in the names of the individual members or groups of members as common property.\n\nForms of common ownership exist in every economic system. Common ownership of the means of production is a central goal of communist political movements as it is seen as a necessary democratic mechanism for the creation and continued function of a communist society. Advocates make a distinction between collective ownership and common property as the former refers to property owned jointly by agreement of a set of colleagues, such as producer cooperatives, whereas the latter refers to assets that are completely open for access, such as a public park freely available to everyone.\n\nWhile virtually all societies have elements of common ownership, societies have existed where common ownership extended to essentially all possessions. Another term for this arrangement is a \"gift economy\" or communalism. Many nomadic societies effectively practiced common ownership of land. \n\nMarxist theory (specifically Friedrich Engels) holds that hunter-gatherer societies practiced a form of primitive communism as based on common ownership on a subsistence level.\n\nThe first church in Jerusalem shared all their money and possessions (Acts of the Apostles 2 and 4). Inspired by the Early Christians, many Christians have since tried to follow their example of community of goods and common ownership. Common ownership is practiced by some Christian groups such as the Hutterites (for about 500 years), the Bruderhof (for some 100 years) and others. In those cases, property is generally owned by a charity set up for the purpose of maintaining the members of the religious groups.\n\nCommon ownership is practised by large numbers of voluntary associations and non-profit organizations as well as implicitly by all public bodies. Most co-operatives have some element of common ownership, but some part of their capital may be individually owned.\n\nMany socialist movements advocate the common ownership of the means of production by all of society as an eventual goal to be achieved through the development of the productive forces, although many socialists classify socialism as public-ownership of the means of production, reserving common ownership for what Karl Marx termed \"upper-stage communism\". From a Marxist analysis, a society based on a superabundance of goods and common ownership of the means of production would be devoid of classes based on ownership of productive property.\n\nTherefore, public or state ownership of industry is seen as a temporary measure to be adopted during the transition from capitalism to socialism, which will eventually be displaced by common ownership as state authority becomes obsolete as class distinctions evaporate. Common ownership in a hypothetical communist society is distinguished from primitive forms of common property that have existed throughout history, such as Communalism and primitive communism, in that communist common ownership is the outcome of social and technological developments leading to the elimination of material scarcity in society.\n\nFrom 1918 until 1995 the \"common ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange\" was cited in Clause IV of its constitution as a goal of the British Labour Party and was quoted on the back of its membership cards. The clause read:\n\nNeoclassical economic theory analyzes common ownership using contract theory. According to the incomplete contracting approach pioneered by Oliver Hart and his co-authors, ownership matters because the owner of an asset has residual control rights. This means that the owner can decide what to do with the asset in every contingency not covered by a contract. In particular, an owner has stronger incentives to make relationship-specific investments than a non-owner, so ownership can ameliorate the so-called hold-up problem. As a result, ownership is a scarce resource that should not be wasted. In particular, a central result of the property rights approach says that joint ownership is suboptimal. If we start in a situation with joint ownership (where each party has veto power over the use of the asset) and move to a situation in which there is a single owner, the investment incentives of the new owner are improved while the investment incentives of the other parties remain the same. However, in the basic incomplete contracting framework the sub-optimality of joint ownership holds only if the investments are in human capital while joint ownership can be optimal if the investments are in physical capital. Recently, several authors have shown that joint ownership can actually be optimal even if investments are in human capital. In particular, joint ownership can be optimal if the parties are asymmetrically informed, if there is a long-term relationship between the parties, or if the parties have know-how that they may disclose.\n\n"}
{"id": "34210544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34210544", "title": "Danau language", "text": "Danau language\n\nDanau (Danaw) is a Mon–Khmer language of Myanmar (Burma). It is the most divergent member of the Palaungic branch (Sidwell 2010). Danau is spoken by about 1,000 people near Aungban, Kalaw Township, Shan State. Danau /dənɔ/ is the Burmese pronunciation of the ethnonym; the Danau themselves pronounce the name of their ethnic group and language as /tʰənɔʔ/. An acceptable variant is /kənɔʔ/. Danau is a tonal language with four tones.\n\nThe Danau are a little known ethnic group in Myanmar, and even in the nearby town of Aungban, it is common for people to confuse this group with the local Danu majority. According to historical accounts, the Danu had served as archers for King Alaungpaya, who founded the Konbaung Dynasty in the 18th century. The Danu settled in the Pindaya region after returning from wars in Thailand, and speak a variant of Burmese that is characterised by minor differences in pronunciation. The Danau, on the other hand speak a completely different Austroasiatic language, which nevertheless has numerous words borrowed from Burmese (and also ultimately from Pali via Burmese).\n\nThe Danau live primarily in the villages of Taungbohla, Thaethit, Htinyugon, Chaunggya and Naung In, within a short distance of the towns of Aungban and Heho. As these villages are surrounded by Pa'O villages, Danau people tend to speak Pa'O as well as Burmese. In spite of the small size of the Danau-speaking population, the language is vigorous and being taught to children. The current situation is in contrast to the prediction made by the linguist Gordon H. Luce in 1965, when he called Danau a 'dying' language. The Danau people are primarily farmers, growing sesame, ginger, chilli, groundnut and potato for local consumption and for sale at nearby markets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40428897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40428897", "title": "Dar Fur Daju people", "text": "Dar Fur Daju people\n\nThe Dar Fur Daju are an ethnic group in the Sudan. They are one of seven distinct ethnicities comprising the Daju people. They speak the Nyala language. They live in Southern Darfur in the Sudan in the Daju Hills 40 km northeast of Nyala - although most of this population has fled to Chad as a result of the Darfur Conflict. There is also a small population of Dar Fur Daju near the city of Lagowa in the Nuba Hills. Their total population numbers 80,000 (1993). They are mostly Muslim.\n\n"}
{"id": "51201592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51201592", "title": "Dehani", "text": "Dehani\n\nDehani tribe is a sub clan of the Buledi tribe. The people of this tribe are well educated and civilized.Living mostly in Rural areas of Kashmore district,sindh.\n"}
{"id": "234516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234516", "title": "Dowry", "text": "Dowry\n\nA dowry is a transfer of parental property, gifts or money at the marriage of a daughter. Dowry contrasts with the related concepts of bride price and dower. While bride price or bride service is a payment by the groom or his family to the bride's parents, dowry is the wealth transferred from the bride's family to the groom or his family, ostensibly for the bride. Similarly, dower is the property settled on the bride herself, by the groom at the time of marriage, and which remains under her ownership and control.\nDowry is an ancient custom, and its existence may well predate records of it. Dowries continue to be expected and demanded as a condition to accept a marriage proposal in some parts of the world, mainly in parts of Asia, Northern Africa and the Balkans. In some parts of the world, disputes related to dowry sometimes result in acts of violence against women, including killings and acid attacks.\n\nA dowry is the transfer of parental property to a daughter at her marriage (i.e. 'inter vivos') rather than at the owner's death (\"mortis causa\"). A dowry establishes a type of conjugal fund, the nature of which may vary widely. This fund may provide an element of financial security in widowhood or against a negligent husband, and may eventually go to provide for her children. Dowries may also go toward establishing a marital household, and therefore might include furnishings such as linens and furniture.\n\nLocally, dowry is called \"dahej\" in Hindi, \"varadhachanai\" in Tamil, \"jehaz\" in Urdu and Arabic, \"joutuk \" in Bengali, \"jiazhuang\" in Mandarin, \"çeyiz\" in Turkish, \"dot\" in French,\"daijo\" in Nepali, and in various parts of Africa as \"serotwana\", \"idana\", \"saduquat\", or \"mugtaf\".\n\nAnthropologist Jack Goody's comparative study of dowry systems around the world utilizing the Ethnographic Atlas demonstrated that dowry is a form of inheritance found in the broad swath of Eurasian societies from Japan to Ireland that practice \"diverging devolution\", i.e., that transmit property to children of both sexes. This practice differs from the majority of Sub-Saharan African societies that practice \"homogenous inheritance\" in which property is transmitted only to children of the same sex as the property holder. These latter African societies are characterized by the transmission of the \"bride price,\" the money, goods or property given by the groom or his family to the parents of the bride (not the bride herself).\n\nGoody has demonstrated a historical correlation between the practices of \"diverging devolution\" (dowry) and the development of intensive plough agriculture on the one hand, and homogeneous inheritance (brideprice) and extensive hoe agriculture on the other. Drawing on the work of Ester Boserup, Goody notes that the sexual division of labour varies in intensive plough agriculture and extensive shifting horticulture. In sparsely populated regions where shifting cultivation takes place, most of the work is done by women. These are the societies that give brideprice. Boserup further associates shifting horticulture with the practice of polygamy, and hence bridewealth is paid as a compensation to her family for the loss of her labour. In plough agriculture farming is largely men's work; this is where dowry is given. In contrast, plough agriculture is associated with private property and marriage tends to be monogamous, to keep the property within the nuclear family. Close family are the preferred marriage partners so as to keep property within the group.\n\nThere is a scholarly debate on Goody's theory. Sylvia Yanagisko argues, for example, that there are a number of societies including parts of Japan, Southern Italy, and China, that do not support Goody's claim that dowry is a form of female inheritance of male property. She notes that Goody's is an evolutionary model in which these historical variables may not be the decisive factors today. Susan Mann argues, in contrast, with examples where even in late Imperial China, dowry was a form of female inheritance.\n\nStanley J. Tambiah (Goody's co-author on the earlier \"Bridewealth and Dowry\") later argued that Goody's overall thesis remained pertinent in North India, although it required modification to meet local circumstances. He points out that dowry in North India is only partially used as a bride's conjugal fund, and that a large part goes directly to the groom's joint family. This would initially seem to discount Goody's model, except that in North India, the joint family is composed of the groom's parents, his married brothers and unmarried sisters, and their third generation children. This joint family controlled this part of the dowry, which they used to help fund their own daughter/sister's dowries. But when the parents die, and the joint family partitions, this jointly held wealth was then divided among the married sons, such that ultimately, the bride's dowry given to the joint family returned to her and her husband as their \"conjugal fund.\"\n\nSchlegel and Eloul expanded on Goody's model through further statistical analysis of the Ethnographic atlas. They argue that a major factor in determining the type of marriage transaction is the type of property controlled by the household. Bridewealth circulates property and women, and is typical of societies where property is limited. Dowry concentrates property and is found in property owning classes or commercial or landed pastoral peoples. When families give dowry, they not only ensure their daughter's economic security, they also \"buy\" the best possible husband for her, and son-in-law for themselves.\n\nEven in the oldest available records, such as the Code of Hammurabi in ancient Babylon, the dowry is described as an already-existing custom. Daughters did not normally inherit anything from their father's estate. Instead, with marriage, they got a dowry from her parents, which was intended to offer as much lifetime security to the bride as her family could afford.\n\nIn Babylonia, both bride price and dowry were practiced. However, bride price almost always became part of the dowry. In case of divorce without reason, a man was required to give his wife the dowry she brought as well as the bride price the husband gave. The return of dowry could be disputed, if the divorce was for a reason allowed under Babylonian law.\n\nA wife's dowry was administered by her husband as part of the family assets. He had no say, however, in its ultimate disposal; and legally, the dowry had to be kept separate for it was expected to support the wife and her children. The wife was entitled to her dowry at her husband's death. If she died childless, her dowry reverted to her family, that is her father if he was alive, otherwise her brothers. If she had sons, they would share it equally. Her dowry being inheritable only by her own children, not by her husband's children by other women.\n\nIn archaic Greece, the usual practice was to give a bride price (\"hédnon\" (\"ἕδνον\")). Dowries (\"pherné\" (\"φερνή\")) were exchanged by the later classical period (5th century ). A husband had certain property rights in his wife's dowry. In addition, the wife might bring to the marriage property of her own, which was not included in the dowry and which was, as a result, hers alone. This property was \"beyond the dowry\" (Greek \"parapherna\", the root of paraphernalia) and is referred to as paraphernal property or extra-dotal property.\n\nA dowry may also have served as a form of protection for the wife against the possibility of ill treatment by her husband and his family, providing an incentive for the husband not to harm his wife. This would apply in cultures where a dowry was expected to be returned to the bride's family if she died soon after marrying.\n\nIn contemporary Greece, dowry was removed from family law through legal reforms in 1983.\n\nThe Romans practiced dowry (\"dos\"). The dowry was property transferred by the bride, or on her behalf by anyone else, to the groom or groom's father, at their marriage. Dowry was a very common institution in Roman times, and it began out of a desire to get the bride’s family to contribute a share of the costs involved in setting up a new household. Dos was given for the purpose of enabling the husband to sustain the charges of the marriage state (onera matrimonii). All the property of the wife which was not dowry, or was not a donatio propter nuptias, continued to be her own property, and was called \"Parapherna\". The dowry could include any form of property, given or promised at the time of marriage, but only what remained after deducting the debts. Not only the bride's family, any person could donate his property as dowry for the woman.\n\nTwo types of dowry were known—\"dos profectitia\" and \"dos adventitia\". That dos is profectitia which was given by the father or father's father of the bride. All other dos is adventitia. Roman law also allowed for a species of dowry, called \"dos receptitia\", which was given by some other person than the father or father's father of the bride, in consideration of marriage, but on the condition that it should be restored back to the dowry giver, on the death of the wife. The bride's family were expected to give a dowry when a girl married, and in proportion to their means. It was customary for the bride's family and friends to pay promised dowries in installments over three years, and some Romans won great praise by delivering the dowry in one lump sum.\n\nThe practice of dowry in South Asia is a controversial subject. Some scholars believe dowry was practiced in antiquity, but some do not. Historical eyewitness reports (discussed below) suggest dowry in ancient India was insignificant, and daughters had inheritance rights, which by custom were exercised at the time of her marriage. Documentary evidence suggests that at the beginning of 20th century, bride price, rather than dowry was the common custom, which often resulted in poor boys remaining unmarried.\n\nStanley J. Tambiah claims the ancient Code of Manu sanctioned dowry and bridewealth in ancient India (typically in Rohtak) and especially in Kadia families, but dowry was the more prestigious form and associated with the Brahmanic (priestly) caste. Bridewealth was restricted to the lower castes, who were not allowed to give dowry. He cites two studies from the early 20th century with data to suggest that this pattern of dowry in upper castes and bridewealth in lower castes persisted through the first half of the 20th century. However, it is more likely that marriages involved both reciprocal gifts between the two families, claims Tambiah, so that insofar as the groom's family gave the bridewealth, it tended to be given back as dowry to the bride as part of her conjugal estate.\n\nMichael Witzel, in contrast, claims the ancient Indian literature suggests dowry practices were not significant during the Vedic period. Witzel also notes that women in ancient India had property inheritance rights either by appointment or when they had no brothers.\n\nThe findings of MacDonell and Keith are similar to Witzel, and differ from Tambiah; they cite ancient Indian literature suggesting bridewealth was paid even in brahma- and daiva-types of marriage associated with the Brahmanic (priestly) upper caste. Dowry was not infrequent, when the girl suffered from some bodily defect. Property rights for women increased in ancient India, suggest MacDonell and Keith, over the Epics era (200 BC – 700 AD). Kane claims ancient literature suggests bridewealth was paid only in the asura-type of marriage that was considered reprehensible and forbidden by Manu and other ancient Indian scribes. Lochtefeld suggests that religious duties listed by Manu and others, such as 'the bride be richly adorned to celebrate marriage' were ceremonial dress and jewelry along with gifts that were her property, not property demanded by or meant for the groom; Lochtefeld further notes that bridal adornment is not currently considered as dowry in most people's mind.\n\nThe above analysis by various scholars is based on interpreting verses of ancient Sanskrit fiction and inconsistent \"smritis\" from India, not eyewitness accounts. Available eyewitness observations from ancient India give a different picture. One of these are the eyewitness records from Alexander the Great's conquest (\"ca\". 300 BC), as recorded by Arrian and Megasthenes. Arrian's first book mentions a lack of dowry,\n\nArrian's second book similarly notes,\n\nThe two sources suggest dowry was absent, or infrequent enough to be noticed by Arrian. About 1200 years after Arrian's visit, another eyewitness scholar visited India named Abū Rayḥān al-Bīrūnī, also known as Al-Biruni, or Alberonius in Latin. Al-Biruni was an Islamic era Persian scholar who went and lived in India for 16 years from 1017 CE. He translated many Indian texts into Arabic, as well as wrote a memoir on Indian culture and life he observed. Al-Biruni claimed,\n\nAl-Biruni further claims that a daughter, in 11th century India, had legal right to inherit from her father, but only a fourth part of her brother. The daughter took this inheritance amount with her when she married, claimed Al-Biruni, and she had no rights to income from her parents after her marriage or to any additional inheritance after her father's death. If her father died before her marriage, her guardian would first pay off her father's debt, then allocate a fourth of the remaining wealth to her upkeep till she is ready to marry, and then give the rest to her to take with her into her married life.\n\nIt is unclear what happened to these daughter's inheritance laws in India after Al-Biruni's visit to India in the 11th century. It is also unclear when, why and how quickly the practice of dowry demand by grooms began, and whether this happened after the arrival of colonialism in the 16th century.\n\nDowry was common in different historic periods of China and continued through the modern history. Locally called \"Jiàzhuāng\" (嫁妝), the dowry ranged from land, jewelry, money to a collection of clothing, sewing equipment and collection of household items. Mann and others find that dowry was a form of inheritance to daughters. In traditional China, the property owned by a family, if any, was earmarked for equal division or inheritance by sons only. Dowry was the only way assets were transferred to a daughter. It included immovable property such as land, and movable property like jewelry and fine clothing. The dowry she brought with her was typically sequestered from the property of her husband and other male members in a joint family. She would often sell this property for cash to overcome hard economic times or needs of her children and husband. In a few cases, she may transfer the property she brought as dowry to her daughter or daughter-in-law. Dowry assets once transferred in turn constituted separate wealth of the woman who received it (\"sifang qian\", etc.). Often a woman who brought a large dowry was considered more virtuous in Chinese culture than one who didn't. In parts of China, both dowry and brideprice (\"pinjin\") were practiced from ancient eras to the 20th century. Though throughout the history of China, the practice of using a brideprice has largely been used instead of dowries, but has slowly diminished in modern times.\n\nDowry was widely practiced in Europe until the early modern era. Folklorists often interpret the folk tale \"Cinderella\" as the competition between the stepmother and the stepdaughter for resources, which may include the need to provide a dowry. Gioachino Rossini's opera \"La Cenerentola\" makes this economic basis explicit: Don Magnifico wishes to make his own daughters' dowries larger, to attract a grander match, which is impossible if he must provide a third dowry.\n\nOne common penalty for the kidnapping and rape of an unmarried woman was that the abductor or rapist had to provide the woman's dowry. Until the late 20th century this was sometimes called wreath money, or the breach of promise.\nProviding dowries for poor women was regarded as a form of charity by wealthier parishioners. The custom of Christmas stockings springs from a legend of St. Nicholas, in which he threw gold in the stockings of three poor sisters, thus providing for their dowries. St. Elizabeth of Portugal and St. Martin de Porres were particularly noted for providing such dowries, and the Archconfraternity of the Annunciation, a Roman charity dedicated to providing dowries, received the entire estate of Pope Urban VII. In 1425, the Republic of Florence created a public fund, called the \"Monte delle doti\", to provide dowries to Florentine brides.\n\nVast inheritances were standard as dowries for aristocratic and royal brides in Europe during the Middle Ages. The Portuguese crown gave two cities in India and Morocco as dowry to the British Crown in 1661 when King Charles II of England married Catherine of Braganza, a princess of Portugal.\n\nIn some cases, nuns were required to bring a dowry when joining a convent. At some times, such as Ancien Régime France, convents were also used by some parents to put less attractive daughters, so that the more marriageable daughters could have larger dowries. Ancien Régime families that could not provide proper dowries also used the convents as places to put their daughters.\n\nIn the County of Bentheim, for instance, parents who had no sons might give a land dowry to their new son-in-law. It was commonly given with the condition that he take the surname of his bride, in order to continue the family name.\nDowry was used in England, however, the right of daughters to inherit and of women to hold property and other rights in their own name made it a different instrument than on the Continent. The Salic law, which required females to be disinherited and disenfranchised from land ownership, did not apply in England. Single women held many rights men did. The most famous example of this English female inheritance and agency right is perhaps Elizabeth I of England, who held all rights a male monarch did. \n\nWhile single women held rights to hold property equivalent to those of men, marriage and married women were affected by the Norman Conquest changes to the law in the 12th Century. Coverture was introduced to the common law in some jurisdictions, requiring property of a wife to be held in the husband's name, custody and control. The Normans also introduced the dowry in England replacing the earlier custom of the new husband giving a morning gift to his bride. At first the husband publicly gave the dowry at the church door at the wedding. \n\nIf the husband died, which was frequent, there was a Widows dowry of one third of the husband's lands at the time of his marriage; the income, and in some cases, the management, of the lands, was assigned to her for the rest of her life. This concept is included in the Great Charter, and along with the recognition of female inheritance and absence of the Salic law, and women, particularly single women, holding many rights equivalent to those men held, manifests English law differing fundamentally from the law of the Continent, especially the law of the Holy Roman Empire. \n\nThirteenth-century court records are filled with disputes over dowries, and the law became increasingly complex.\n\nThe English dowry system permitted most noble families to marry off their daughters and thereby gain extended kin and patronage ties. Marriageable daughters were a valuable commodity to ambitious fathers, and the English aristocracy sent few of their eligible daughters to convents.\n\nFailure to provide a customary, or agreed-upon, dowry could cause a marriage to be called off. William Shakespeare made use of such an event in \"King Lear\": one of Cordelia's suitors gives up his suit upon hearing that King Lear will give her no dowry. In \"Measure for Measure\", Claudio and Juliet's premarital sex was brought about by their families' wrangling over dowry after the betrothal. Angelo's motive for forswearing his betrothal with Mariana was the loss of her dowry at sea.\n\nIn Victorian England, dowries were viewed by some members of the upper class as an early payment of the daughter's inheritance. In some instances, daughters who had not received their dowries were the only female heirs entitled to part of the estate when their parents died. If a couple died without children, a woman's dowry was often returned to her family.\n\nCoverture never applied universally in Britain and was repealed in the 1800s. This effectively ended the concept of dowry as the property of a single woman was either retained by her after marriage or its income became marital property under joint control with a husband (not under his sole control as in coverture).\n\nIn some parts of Europe, especially Eastern Europe, land dowries were common. \n\nThe Domostroy, a Russian advice book of the 16th century for upper classes, includes advice to set aside property for purposes of a dowry, and use it to accumulate linens, clothing, and other things for it, rather than have to suddenly buy it all for the wedding; if the daughter should happen to die, the dowry should be used to give alms and for prayers for her soul, although some might be set aside for other daughters. In late Tsarist Russia the dowry originally consisted of clothing for the bride, linen, and bedding. Linen became less common, a fact blamed on poor flax harvest and girls being poor spinners, but emphasis was added to the finest of the clothing, and a money dowry was sometimes added, particularly if the bride was regarded as having some fault. Prospective in-laws, usually concerned mostly with her working ability, grew more concerned about a money dowry.\n\nIn Romania in the late 18th and early 19th centuries (1750–1830s) the exclusion of dowered girls from the family inheritance led to increased cohesion within the nuclear family. The wife's male relatives controlled the dowry but she retained sole ownership of the dowry and wedding gifts. Her relatives could prosecute the husband for squandering a dowry; wives gained some ability to leave an abusive marriage. The long-term result was a greater legal empowerment of women, while providing economic security to divorced women, widows, and children.\n\nAccording to one ethnographic study of indigenous cultures worldwide, around six percent of North American indigenous cultures practised reciprocal exchange, involving the giving of gifts between both the bride and groom's families. Among the tribes of the American Plains, a combination of dower and dowry was used. The groom would give a gift of horses to the bride's parents, while they in turn would give a gift to the groom. The exchange was somewhat reciprocal.\n\nSpanish colonists brought the dowry custom to Mexico. Spain's laws gave brides the right to control their dowry after marriage, contrary to the usual European practice of transferring the dowry to the control of the groom and his family. Women, in practice, often did maintain control over their dowry after marriage. The husband might be given funds from the dowry to invest for the mutual benefit of the couple and their children, but wives also often used funds from their dowries to operate their own businesses, as grocers, tavern keepers, and shop owners in urban areas. Dowries were a common custom in the early colonial years, but were passing out of use by the mid-18th century. By that time, less wealthy daughters were often marrying without any dowry.\n\nThe French government made efforts to encourage marriage for the male soldiers and traders in New France by granting dowries to women willing to travel to the colony at Quebec. As the French crown provided dowries for many of the women persuaded to travel to New France for marriages and settlement there, they were known as \"filles du roi\" (daughters of the king).\n\nConvents in Quebec, as in Europe, required a dowry from the parents of girls becoming nuns, much as the dowry was expected in the marriages of upper class brides. The Catholic Church intended for this requirement to be used to maintain some control over the new members of religious communities. Girls without a dowry were often supported by benefactors, however, and occasionally convents lowered the sum required to enter the convent.\n\nThe dowry was a custom brought to the United States by colonists from England and elsewhere in Europe. One legend tells how John Hull, the Master of the Mint in Boston and a wealthy man, determined the dowry for his daughter Hannah's marriage to Samuel Sewall. Hull is said to have set his 18-year-old daughter onto one side of the large scales in his warehouse. He piled shillings into the other side of the scale until he reached her weight in silver, and that was her dowry.\n\nThe dowry system existed in certain Native American tribes. An example is found in the marriage of Virginia settler John Rolfe to Pocahontas, who brought a dowry to the marriage that included a large amount of land.\n\nThe daughters of wealthy 19th century industrialists, who were able to inherit large amounts of money and property, were given \"dowries\" by their fathers to marry European aristocrats who held a title but had little wealth. The mutual exchange of title and wealth raised the status of both bride and groom.\n\nThe dowry was a custom brought to Brazil by Portuguese settlers. Colonial economics meant that families had a great stake in inheritances of land in particular. As in Europe, the eldest daughter was usually granted the largest dowry by her father. Variations were not unusual, however, as research has shown in São Paulo, 31% of fathers gave dowries of increasing size to the younger daughters, and 21% distributed dowries with no particular favour shown to birth order of the daughters. In addition to dowries, daughters could also be granted an inheritance from their father, a share of the \"legìtima\". Inheritance laws were complex in colonial Brazil. According to Portuguese law, an estate was to be divided among children who had not already received a dowry. In the early colonial period, married daughters receiving a large dowry would refuse to accept a further inheritance after the death of their father. In the 18th century, as inheritances and dowries gradually became smaller, this custom disappeared. Daughters accepted a dowry, plus a \"legìtima.\" In this way, they folded their dowry back into the estate with the \"legìtima\", called bringing the dowry \"à colação\". The remaining third of the estate, the \"terça\", was free for the father to divide as he wished among his heirs.\n\nThere were instances where a daughter was left to marry without a dowry, whereas her sisters were given dowries, an indication of paternal control over marriage choices. During the 18th century, as inheritances decreased in size, litigation among siblings became more common. Dowries could include land, a house in the city, cash, gold dust, gold bars, tools and machinery, cattle, or horses. By the 19th century, economic changes meant that men, typically merchants, brought more to the marriage materially, and the economic dynamics of marriage changed.\n\nDowry is a common practice in many parts of the world, especially in South Asia and several Middle East and North Africa countries. Dowry is most common in nations with inadequate male-biased inheritance laws and patrilineal societies, which expect women to live with or near their husband's family. \nAn unusual exception to the dowry custom in South Asia is found in Bhutan. The dowry system does not exist in Bhutan; inheritance is matrilineal, and daughters do not take their father's name at birth, nor their husband's name upon marriage. Rural land may be registered in a woman's name. Women own businesses, and both polyandry and polygyny are socially accepted, with polygyny being more prevalent. Sometimes a prospective groom will work in the bride's family's household to earn the right to marry her.\n\nIn India, dowry is called \"Dahej\" in Hindi, and \"Jahez\" in Arabic (derived from Islamic \"jahez-e-fatimi\"). In far eastern parts of India, dowry is called \"Aaunnpot\". Dowry is a payment of cash or gifts from the bride's family to the bridegroom's family upon marriage. It may include cash, jewellery, electrical appliances, furniture, bedding, crockery, utensils, car and other household items that help the newly-weds set up their home.\n\nIn India, the dowry system puts great financial strain on the bride's family. Payment of dowry is now prohibited under the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 in Indian civil law and subsequently by Sections 304B and 498a of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Despite anti-dowry laws in India, it is still a common illegal practice. Other laws attempting to address the problem include the \"Dowry and Bridal Gifts Restrictions Rules, 1976\" and the \"Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance of Lists of Presents to the Bride and Bridegroom) Rules, 1985\", which are intended to document gifts and provide complainants with stronger evidence in the event that prosecution for crimes against the bride occurs later.\n\nDowry in India is not limited to Hindus or any specific religion. It is widespread. For example, Indian Muslims call dowry as \"jahez\", justify the practice in terms of jahez-e-fatimi. Islamists classify jahez into two categories: The first comprises some essential articles for the outfit of the bride as well as for conjugal life. The other is made up of valuable goods, clothes, jewelry, an amount of money for the groom's family, which is settled on after bargaining. The \"jahez\" often far exceeds the cost of the \"baraat\" and marriage parties. The \"jahez\" is separate from cash payment as \"Mahr\" or dower that Sharia religious law requires.\n\nAlthough Indian laws against dowries have been in effect for decades, they have been largely criticised as being ineffective. The practice of dowry deaths and murders continues to take place unchecked in many parts of India and this has further added to the concerns of enforcement.\n\nDowry-murder persists. It is the killing of a wife for not bringing sufficient dowry to the marriage. It is the culmination of a series of prior domestic abuses by the husband's family.\n\nThe original custom in Bangladesh was the bride price, called \"pawn\", where the groom's family makes a payment to the bride's parents. This has gradually been replaced by the dowry, called \"joutuk\". This transition in customs began in the 1960s. By the early 21st century, the bride price has been supplanted by the dowry. \"Joutuk\", sometimes spelled \"Joutukh\", like elsewhere in South Asia, is a serious and growing problem in Bangladesh. Between 0.6 and 2.8 brides per year per 100,000 women are reported to die because of dowry-related violence.\n\nBangladesh has seen a rise in the expected size of dowries in recent decades, as its middle class has grown. Sociologist Sarah White has argued that the dowry is not compensation for weakness in women's economic contribution. Instead its main function is now to support family advancement by mobilizing additional resources. It also demonstrates an ongoing commitment to the norms of masculine provision and protection. Dowries make women more valuable, which pushes against the background of widespread corruption and political and gender violence.\n\nA negative factor is the rise in the rate of \"dowry deaths\". In Bangladesh, dowry killings are more frequently done by stabbing or poison rather than burning. Dowry extortion is also a problem in Bangladesh. From January to October 2009, more than 3,413 complaints were made to the police in Bangladesh concerning beatings and other abuses related to dowries. One of the methods used by families who are unhappy with dowry includes acid throwing, in which concentrated acid is thrown on the bride's face to cause disfiguration and social isolation. From 1995 to 1998, 15 women reported dowry disputes as the motivation behind acid attacks, though that number may be low due to underreporting. Bangladesh is combating the problem with legislation largely copied from that of India. Laws prohibiting dowry in Bangladesh include \"Dowry Prohibition Act, 1980\"; \"Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982\"; and \"Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Ordinance, 1986\".\n\nDowry Prohibition Act Clause 4 states that any one demanding Dowry from a person has committed a crime. The law does not have any clause stating punishment to misuse it. Therefore, the law is frequently used by women to harass in-laws and husbands.\n\nIn Pakistan, dowry is called \"Jahez\" in Arabic (derived from Islamic \"jahez-e-fatimi\"). At over 2000 dowry-related deaths per year, and annual rates exceeding 2.45 deaths per 100,000 women from dowry-related violence, Pakistan has the highest reported number of dowry death rates per 100,000 women in the world.\n\nAccording to Ansari, Pakistan's Muslim community considers dowry as an obligatory Islamic practice. They cite sunnah of the Prophet to justify the practice of giving dowry as well as receiving dower (Mahr); the Prophet gave items as dowry to his daughter Fatima at her marriage to Ali; and as second sunnah, the marriage of Zainab—another daughter of the Prophet—is mentioned, who received expensive jewelry from her family at the time of her marriage. Over 95 percent of all marriages in Pakistan involves transfer of a dowry from the bride's family to groom's family. A 2014 Gallup survey in Pakistan found that 84% of Pakistanis believe that dowry plays either very important or somewhat important role in marriage, while 69% believed it is not possible for a girl to get married without a dowry.\n\nPakistan has seen a rise in the values of dowries in recent decades, as in other South Asian countries. However, in Pakistan it is still expected that a bride will bring some kind of dowry with her to a marriage, whether she is Muslim, Hindu, or Christian. The Dower (bride price), called \"mahr\", and dowry, called \"jahaiz\", are both customs with long histories in Pakistan. Today, the dowry will often consist of jewelry, clothing, and money. Dowry is expected while the majority of marriages are consanguineously arranged between first cousins.\n\nControl of the dowry belongs to the bride in theory, although in practice control often transfers to the husband and in-laws, and grooms sometimes extort large dowries. In rural Pakistan, dowry values are still relatively low, around 12 percent of a household's annual (non-durable goods) expenses. Also, in rural Pakistan it is standard for the bride to maintain control over her dowry after marriage, rather than control of the dowry being given to the in-laws. A recent survey in January 2017 by Gallup Pakistan showed that 56 percent of the population expects the girl to bring dowry to marriage.The pressure among some Pakistanis to provide a large dowry results in some brides' families going into debt, including debt servitude; some brides build up their dowry with their own earnings if they work outside the home. The debt trap created by providing large dowries puts pressure on parents aspiring to arrange a marriage for their daughter(s) into a better social class. It is also cited as a reason for the current trend toward delayed marriages. Arranged marriages among first cousins are common, since they provide a way of keeping dowries within an extended family.\n\nPakistan has passed several laws to address the problem of excessive dowry demands: \"West Pakistan Dowry (Prohibition of Display) Act, 1967\"; \"Dowry and Bridal Gifts (Restriction) Act, 1976\". Women's rights to inheritance separate from the dowry are offered some protection in the \"Muslim Personal Law of Shariat of 1948\" and the \"Muslim Family Laws Ordinance of 1961\".\n\nThe practice of dowry is common in Nepal, and dowry-related violence is increasingly becoming a problem. As a result, the dowry system has been banned in Nepal. Despite the laws, the violent incidents continue, under a general perception of impunity. Nepali people of the Madhesi society still freely welcome dowry as a right to the groom's side. Even highly educated people living in the Terai of Nepal accept dowry without any second thoughts. Parents have thus started dreading the birth of daughters in the family, going as far as determining the sex of fetuses in order to abort daughters. Many deaths have also been caused by not giving dowry to the groom's side. Dowry system, however, is not practiced by Non-Hindu people or indigenous people.\n\nIn Nepal, the practice of dowry is closely related to social prestige; and dowry violence is especially prevalent in the Terai belt. In 2009, Nepal enacted the Social Customs and Practices Act outlawing dowry; however, there have been no known cases of enforcement.\n\nHere, the dowry is known as \"dewedda\". The payment of dowry in Sri Lanka has a strong tradition, and has been connected to family violence. However its importance is declining, and violence related to it is not as common as in other South Asian countries, though it still exists.\n\nDowry is called \"Jehez\" in Afghanistan, and is separate from Mahr, \"sherbaha\", and brideprice (locally called \"walwar\", \"toyana\", or \"qalyn\").\n\nA large dowry is sometimes expected, and given, in Afghanistan; some houses are almost emptied so that the daughter may make a grand show at the wedding. Items included in a dowry depend on the resources of the bride's family and the demands made by the groom's family. Embroidery is traditionally included in a dowry, as is land, money, jewelry such as necklaces and \"pazab\", shoes, shawls, carpets, bedding, furniture, crockery, mirrors, clocks and such items. The dowry is transferred from bride's family house to the groom's family house one day before the wedding day in a ritual ceremony with band and a procession, which typically adopts the longest route in the residential area for the Afghan community to see the dowry being given by the bride's family.\n\nAfghanistan has both dowry and bride price, although the practice differs between different tribal and ethnic groups. In Afghanistan, a marriage typically requires two kinds of payments: a mahr, which typically consists of livestock, property and money, and in practice often takes the form of a bride price paid to the woman's family; and a dowry brought by the bride to her husband's home which may include various goods such as clothing, bedding and household utensils. The nature of dowry the bride brings often influences how she is treated when she arrives at her husband's home. Parents frequently arrange marriages for daughters at a young age, in order to end their economic responsibility for their daughter.\n\nDowry has existed in Persia for over 1000 years, and called \"jahīzīeh\" (sometimes spelled \"jahaz\" or \"jaheez\", جهیزیه). \"Jahiz\" is vestments, furniture, jewelry, cash and other paraphernalia a bride's family gives to the bride to take with her to the groom's family. Jahiz is separate from Mahr required by Sharia religious laws, as well as the traditional payment of \"Shir Baha\" (literally: price of milk), in rural Iran. Dowry-related violence and deaths in Iran are reported in Iranian newspapers, some of which appear in English media.\n\nDowry is known as \"çeyiz\" in Turkey. \"Ceyiz\" is the property and money bride's family in Turkey give during marriage. Ceyiz is different and separate from the \"Mahr\", which is paid by the groom to the bride, or traditional \"baslik\" in some parts of Turkey.\n\nCeyiz often includes furnishings, appliances, clothing, gold jewelry, cash and other items depending on the resources of the Turkish family. Some of the Turkish dowry remains with the couple after marriage, other is specifically meant for the groom's family and relatives. The \"ceyiz\" is typically agreed upon between the groom's and bride's families before the wedding date is finalized. According to tradition, even in current times, the dowry is displayed for showing-off, before the marriage in rural Turkey, at the bride's family, or groom's family—the display is typically attended and examined by females, particularly from the groom's family. In some cases, if the groom's family is not satisfied with the displayed dowry, the wedding is cancelled. The dowry is transferred, from the bride's family to the groom's family just before the wedding in a ceremonial ritual. Thereafter, the wedding is completed.\n\nScholars and government agencies claim significant domestic violence in Turkish population due to dowry disputes. Violence and property claims related disputes are more frequent if there is a divorce.\n\nDowry is known as \"cehiz\" in Azerbaijan. \"Cehiz\" is the property and money the bride's family must give to the groom's family prior to marriage. \"Cehiz\" is separate from the money under \"Mahr\" required under Sharia religious requirements in Islamic Azerbaijan. \"Cehiz\" often includes furnishings, appliances, crystal, mirrors, bed, jewelry and cash depending on the negotiations between the groom's and bride's families before the wedding day. While the groom's family receives \"Cehiz\", the bride receives \"Mahr\". Relatives of the bride often contribute to the \"Cehiz\" demands, through the ritual of \"koncas\". Dowry is transferred a few days before the wedding, and examined by groom's family, and a \"Sihaye\" (receipt) for the dowry is issued by the groom's family; this helps avoid disputes. If some items of the dowry are not satisfactory, the wedding may be delayed or cancelled. Similar traditions continue in many regions of Caucasus, including non-Muslim ethnic groups.\n\nDowries are sometimes expected in Tajikistan, and they often consist of a collection of traditional dresses which are on display on the wedding day.\n\nIn Egypt, dowry is known as \"Gehaz\". This is the property a bride is expected to bring with her at marriage, and it is different from the dower (Mahr) paid by the groom to the bride per requirements of Sharia. \"Gehaz\" is observed in rural and urban Egypt, and is typically negotiated between the groom's family and bride's. \"Gehaz\" includes furniture, appliances, jewelry, china, bedding and various household items. Families begin collecting dowry years before a girl is betrothed. Many Egyptian girls take up jobs so as to save money necessary to meet the expected dowry demands.\n\nWhile the dowry is given during the marriage, in rural Egypt, it is ritually displayed to the village prior to the marriage. Every piece of the \"gehaz\" is placed on open cars that go around the village several times, with music, in order to show off the dowry being given by the bride's family to the groom. The \"gehaz\" show off ritual is also a means to enhance the bride's status within her new marital family.\n\nDowry is a traditional and current practice in Morocco, and is called \"shura\", \"shawar\", \"ssdaq\" or \"amerwas\" depending on the speaker's region and ethnicity (e.g. Arabic, Berber, etc.). Dowry in Morocco is separate from the \"Mahr\" or \"Sadaq\" that is religiously required by Sharia.\n\nCenturies ago, \"Mahr\" and \"Sadaq\" meant something different in Morocco. \"Mahr\" was the purchase price paid for the bride by the groom's family to the bride's father or guardian, while \"Sadaq\" was the betrothal gift offered by groom to the bride. Over time, the difference vanished and they are now one and the same, but different from the practice of dowry.\n\nIn modern times, the Moroccan practice is to split the so-called \"Sadaq\", which meets the Islamic requirement of \"Mahr\", into two parts: \"naqd\" (cash) and \"kali\" (remainder Mahr). The \"Naqd Sadaq\" is paid by the groom's family to bride's family before the wedding. The bride's family supplements the \"Naqd\" amount with an equal or greater amount of cash, and gives dowry (called \"shura\", \"shawar\" or \"amerwas\"). This dowry typically includes furniture, clothing, appliances, beds, household items, divans, jewelry, and other property. The dowry amounts are negotiated before the wedding. Higher dowry and lower Mahr are expected for widows and divorcées than for virgins. If elders of the two families do not agree on the dowry amount, the marriage is typically delayed or cancelled. The value and composition of the dowry varies according to social class, family wealth and regional customs. The \"kali al-sadaq\" (sometimes called \"mwahhar\" in Northern Morocco) is paid later, to technically meet the requirements of \"Mahr\" under Islamic Sharia. The \"shura\" (dowry) far exceeds the \"kali al-sadaq\", and there is a large transfer of wealth from bride's family to the couple and the groom's family.\n\nDowry is known as \"oprema\" in Bosnia. In neighboring regions, it is sometimes called \"prikija\" or \"ženinstvo\". Another term \"miraz\" is used sometimes, but \"miraz\" is also used to mean inheritance, something different from dowry.\n\n\"Oprema\" is separate from the Mahr dower Muslim Bosnians are required to give under Islamic laws. \"Oprema\" refers to the property the bride's parents give her as part of the marriage. It often includes furniture, kitchenware, decorative items, gold jewelry and other items. Oprema is also different from \"pohod\" (gift giving, \"dar\") ritual of Bosnia, as well as the \"ruho\" (embroidered clothing) ritual. Oprema is discussed between the groom's and bride's family before the marriage; the groom's family sets the quality and quantity expectations. The \"oprema\" is typically not displayed to those who attend the wedding. Oprema and \"dar\" are a major economic burden to bride's family in Bosnia. Poorer families spend years saving money and buying \"oprema\" in order to get their daughter(s) married.\n\nIn Serbia, in some rural areas, the custom of dowry continues to be observed.\nDowry has been brought to medieval Serbia mainly through Byzantine influences; it was not originally a Slavic custom. The Turkish conquest of Serbia has caused the temporary disappearance of dowry, but the custom re-emerged in the 19th century. The communist regime sought to abolish dowry, but the custom has survived in some rural areas to this day.\n\nDisputes related to dowry sometimes result in violence against women, including killings and acid attacks. Amnesty International has stated:\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women classifies violence against women into three categories: that occurring in the family (DV), that occurring within the general community, and that perpetrated or condoned by the State. Family violence is defined as follows:\n\nKirti Singh states, \"Dowry is widely considered to be both a cause and a consequence of son preference. The practice of dowry inevitably leads to discrimination in different areas against daughters and makes them vulnerable to various forms of violence.\" Singh suggests this may lead to girls being unwanted, sex selective abortion, or her parents may abandon or mistreat her after she is born. UNICEF notes dowry helps perpetuate child marriage. The World Health Organization (WHO) has expressed concern for dowry-related femicide, citing the study by Virendra Kumar which argued that dowry deaths occur primarily in areas of the Indian subcontinent. They note the estimates for actual number of dowry deaths per year vary widely ranging from 600–750 homicides a year to 25,000 homicides a year, with official government records suggesting 7,618 deaths in 2006. Rakhshinda Perveen states thousands of dowry-related bride burning cases in Pakistan, yet few prosecutions and rare convictions for dowry-related violence against women.\n\nUNODC includes dowry deaths as a form of gender-based violence. About 4.6% of total crimes against women in India were dowry death-related, and another 1.9% were related to violation of Dowry Prohibition Act. The dowry death rate in India has been about 0.7 women per 100,000 every year from 1998 to 2009. Kiani et al., in a 2014 study, report dowry deaths in Iran.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216003", "title": "Entertainment law", "text": "Entertainment law\n\nEntertainment law, also referred to as media law is legal services provided to the entertainment industry. These services in entertainment law overlap with intellectual property law. Intellectual property has many moving parts that include trademarks, copyright, and the \"Right of Publicity\". However, the practice of entertainment law often involves questions of employment law, contract law, torts, labor law, bankruptcy law, immigration, securities law, security interests, agency, right of privacy, defamation, advertising, criminal law, tax law, International law (especially Private international law), and insurance law.\n\nMuch of the work of an entertainment law practice is transaction based, i.e., drafting contracts, negotiation and mediation. Some situations may lead to litigation or arbitration.\n\nEntertainment law covers an area of law which involves media of all different types (TV, film, music, publishing, advertising, Internet & news media, etc.), and stretches over various legal fields, which include corporate, finance, intellectual property, publicity and privacy, and, in the United States, the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nFor film, entertainment attorneys work with the actor's agent to finalize the actor's contracts for upcoming projects. After an agent lines up work for a star, the entertainment attorney negotiates with the agent and buyer of the actor's talent for compensation and profit participation. Entertainment attorneys are under strict confidentiality agreements, so the specifics of their job are kept top secret. But, some entertainment attorney's job descriptions have become comparable to those of a star's agent, manager or publicist. Most entertainment attorneys have many other roles as well such as assisting in building a client's career.\n\nAs the popularity of media became widespread, the field of media law became more popular and needed leaving certain corporate professionals wanting to participate more in media. As a result, many young lawyers fledged into media law which allowed them the opportunity to increase connections in media, and the opportunity to become a media presenter or an acting role if such an opportunity arose. As technology continues to make huge advancements, many lawsuits have begun to arise which makes the demand for lawyers extremely necessary.\n\nEntertainment law is generally sub-divided into the following areas related to the types of activities that have their own specific trade unions, production techniques, rules, customs, case law, and negotiation strategies:\n\n\n-In an 8-0 choice, the Supreme Court held that in light of the fact that the FCC rules at the time did not cover \"short lived exclamations,\" the fines issued against Fox were unethical and subsequently discredited as \"illegally unclear\".\n\n\n-Copyright: Golan v. Holder, No. 10-545 In a 6-2 vote, the judges dismissed contentions in light of the First Amendment and the Constitution's copyright provision, stating that the general population was not \"a class of sacred centrality\" and that copyright insurances may be extended regardless of whether they did not strive for new attempts to be made. \n\n\n- Internet applications include, but are not limited to Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, MySpace, Snapchat, etc.;\n\n\nDefamation (libel and slander), personality rights and privacy rights issues also arise in entertainment law.\n\n-Contract Law is an arrangement of principles that represents the legitimacy of an understanding between at least two people, organizations, entities, etc. Contract Laws have been at the forefront of Entertainment with leading world-wide known cases. One of those cases deals with Singer/Songwriter, Kesha.\n\n-Kesha v. Dr. Luke – In 2014, singer Kesha filed a civil suit against music producer Lukasz Sebastian Gottwald, also referred to some as Dr. Luke for gender-based hate crimes and emotional distress. This civil suit caused Lukasz Sebastian Gottwald to in return sue Kesha for defamation and breach of contract. This case ended with a judge declining to release Kesha from her binding contract that prohibited her from continuing her career effectively. The judge took note that Kesha had entered an agreement after she had sworn under oath that no harassment was taking place. Many celebrities such as Miley Cyrus, Lady Gaga, and Demi Lovato have shown support for Kesha in an attempt to broadcast the injustice contract laws have played in the outcome of this case. Singer-songwriter Taylor Swift donated $250,000 to relieve Kesha of any financial obligations. \n\n-Katie Armiger – In 2016, singer/songwriter Katie Armiger claimed that a handful of DJs’ at radio stations across the United States harassed her during her radio tour while her record label, Cold River Records justified it by telling her that radio programmers are her ticket to fame. Cold River Records caused defamation and false light against Armigers’ character when they challenged her in a court case that played out in the public eye. Cold River Records held Armiger hostage in a lengthy prosecution that forbid her to release new music or perform live by strictly enforcing the terms and legality of her record contract. Because of this, Armiger lost countless fans with her lack of presence on social media and most likely lost credibility as well by not giving her fans an explanation. There is no law created for instances like this where an artist is unable to breach their contract immediately when harassment is involved. Libel per quod can be applied to this case by showing that Armiger’s statements show plenty of proof and negligence on not only Cold Rivers’ behalf but the DJs’ behalf as well. In the end, Armigers’ character was defamed and a false light was shone upon her when Cold River Records’ head Pete O’Heeron claimed that Armigers’ suit was baseless. Defamation, false light and contract laws have played a significant role in Katie Armigers’ reality through her pursuit to breach her contract with Cold River Records.\n\nMedia law is a legal field that refers to the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "504356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504356", "title": "Equality feminism", "text": "Equality feminism\n\nEquality feminism is a subset of the overall feminism movement that focuses on the basic similarities between men and women, and whose ultimate goal is the equality of the sexes in all domains. This includes economic and political equality, equal access within the workplace, freedom from oppressive gender stereotyping, and an androgynous worldview.\n\nFeminist theory seeks to promote the legal status of women as equal and undifferentiated from that of men. While equality feminists largely agree that men and women have basic biological differences in anatomy and frame, they argue that on a psychological level, the use of ration or reason is androgynous. For equality feminists, men and women are equal in terms of their ability to reason, achieve goals, and prosper in both the work and home front.\n\nEquality feminism was the dominant version of feminism following Mary Wollstonecraft's \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792). Wollstonecraft made the case that women's equality to men manifests itself in education and worker's rights, and further produced a proverbial roadmap in order for future women to follow in terms of activism and feminist theorizing. Since then, active equality feminist include Simone de Beauvoir, the Seneca Falls Convention Leaders, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Coffin Mott, Susan B. Anthony, Betty Friedan, and Gloria Steinem.\n\nWhile equality feminism was the dominant perspective of feminism during the 19th and 20th century, the 1980s and 1990s brought about a new focus in popular feminism on difference feminism, or the essential differences between men and women. In opposition to equality feminism, this view advocates for the celebration of the \"feminine\" by focusing on traditionally viewed female traits, such as empathy, nurturing, and care. While equality feminists view human nature as essentially androgynous, difference feminists claim that this viewpoint aligns the \"good\" with male-dominated stereotypes, thus sticking within the patriarchal framework of society.\n\nIn both law and in theology women were portrayed as both physically and intellectually inferior. One of the first feminist documents that set the stage for feministic movements occurred when Mary Wollstonecraft wrote \"Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" in 1792. While this literature was seen as rebellious at the time it echoed the feelings of women throughout France as women's republican clubs demanded that liberty, equality and fraternity should be applied to both men and women. While this movement gained notoriety it was eventually extinguished by Napoleon Bonaparte's Code Napoleon that established that the husband had complete control over the family and regressed equality feminism.\n\nWhile much of the equality feminism movements that occurred in France weren't successful, they influenced much of the movements that occurred in North America in the 1800s. Both Abigail Adams and Mercy Otis Warren fought for woman's emancipation to be included in the constitution of 1776 to no avail. However, Elizabeth Cade Stanton, Lucretia Coffin Mott, along with thousands of other women changed the dynamics of equality feminism forever with the women's convention at Seneca Falls N.Y. in 1848. Here along with independence they demanded full legal equality in all aspects of life (education, commercial opportunities, compensation, voting rights, etc.). With the influence of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, this movement evolved into Europe. In 1869 John Stuart Mill published \"The Subjection of Women\" in which he argued that equality between the sexes would translate to more moral and intellectual advancement which in turn would result in more human happiness to everyone.\n\nAfter the expansion into Europe, the movement stifled its growth until 1920 where the woman suffrage movement occurred, as many women were divided when determining whether or not women were on equal standing with men. This continued until the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women was established in 1946 to secure equal political, economic and educational opportunities for women throughout the world. In 1949, a French Existentialist Simone de Beauvoir published the work \"The Second Sex\", in which she debunks many of the claims made towards women and fights for gender equality. In 1963 another literature pertaining to equality feminism arose, with Betty Friedan's \"The Feminine Mystique\" in which she discussed \"the problem that has no name\", being the widespread unhappiness of women in the 1950s. She uses this information to describe many of the gender inequalities that society has created that has resulted in this unhappiness, such as giving up her psychology career to tend to her children. Using these literatures as a guide feminism once again arose in the United States with the development of the National Organization for Women (NOW) formed in 1966. This organization fought for the removal of all legal and social barriers placed upon women to once again influence true equality between men and women. In 1972 women leaders such as Bella Abzug, Betty Friedan, and Gloria Steinem pushed the Equal Rights Amendment through Congress; however, it fell short of ratification by 1982.\n\nEquality feminist theory is the extension of the equality of the male and female into theoretical and philosophical fields of thought. At its core, equality feminist theory advocates for the equal standing of both men and women in terms of desires, wants, goals, and achievement. Thus, from this viewpoint, the basis of human nature outside of culture is androgynous, neutral, and equal.\n\nMuch of equality feminism focuses on the relation of reason as the central tenet of both men and women equally. Mary Wollstonecraft in \"A Vindication on the Rights of Women\" (1792) claimed that women should enjoy the same legal and political rights as men on the grounds that they are human beings. Specifically, Wollstonecraft argues for \"[a]sserting the rights which women in common with men ought to contend for\". In this way, both men and women should have equal access to rights because they have an equal access to the capacity to reason. Similarly, \"The Subjection of Women\" (1869), John Stuart Mill advocated that society ought to be arranged according to reason and that 'accidents of birth' is irrelevant. Thus, because both men and women are governed by principles of reason, then the biological elements such as sex, gender, and race aren't contributing factors to the essence of the individual. Mill notes that within a patriarchal society, \"Men hold women in subjection by representing to them meekness, submissiveness resignation of all individual will into the hands of a man as an essential part of sexual attractiveness\". In this way, to say that women have essential characteristics of submission by nature of their sex is an oppressive measure that contradicts the basic principle of reason that governs all human nature.\n\nIn 1792 Wollstonecraft wrote one of the earliest works in feminist philosophy and though she doesn't explicitly state that men and women are equal she does call for equality in various realms of life which set the stage for future equality feminist works. In her piece \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman: with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects\", Wollstonecraft argues that women should have an education comparable to their position in society. She articulates her argument by claiming that since women were the primary care givers they could be able to better educate their own children and be seen as \"companions\" to the husband rather than wives if they were given this opportunity. Instead of being considered \"property\" that were exchanged through marriage, Wollstonecraft maintains that women are human beings and therefore deserve equal fundamental rights as men.\n\nIn 1869, John Stuart Mill with the help of his wife Harriet Taylor Mill published \"The Subjection of Women\", in it he argued for equality between the sexes. John Stuart Mill was able to draw off of some of the arguments his wife made in her essay \"The Enfranchisement of Women\", in which she opened the door of favoring equality for both men and women. Mill believe that the moral and intellectual advancement from giving women the opportunity to be considered equal would translate to greater happiness for everyone involved. He believed that all humans had the capability of being educated and civilized, with which he argued women should be given the right to vote. Throughout the book Mill continues to argue that both men and women should be able to vote to defend their rights and be able to have the opportunity to stand on their own two feet morally and intellectually, and constantly used his position in Parliament to advocate for women's suffrage.\n\nMill attacks many of the arguments that women are inferior at certain activities and therefore be forbidden from doing them by saying that women aren't given the opportunities and therefore we don't know what women are capable of. He claims that males are making an authoritative statement without evidence, an argument solely based on speculation. Mill claims that by giving women this opportunity to figure out exactly what they were capable of would double the mass of mental faculties to serve humanity, and could produce a great impact on human development.\n\nSimone de Beauvoir played a large role in equality feminism with the publishing of her book \"The Second Sex\", broken into 3 parts. In the first part, \"Destiny\", de Beauvoir discusses the relationship of male to female in a variety of creatures before comparing human beings. This physiological data along with psychoanalytical data help her come to the conclusion that there wasn't a historical defeat of the female sex. Part two, \"History\", outlines the two factors in the evolution of women's condition: participation in production and freedom from reproductive slavery. In these chapters, de Beauvoir compares being a women to being like an animal, similar to the way male animals dominated a female. Finally in part three, \"Myths\", de Beauvoir discusses the perceived \"everlasting disappointment\" of women from a male heterosexual point of view. She then comes back and discusses full reality of the situation to show the discrepancies between perception and reality. Throughout her literary career, de Beauvoir helped unravel some of the \"myths\" associated with perceptions in gender and set forth a strong message that men and women should be treated equal with equal rights.\n\nBetty Friedan became one of the most recognized equality feminists after writing the book \"The Feminine Mystique\", in which she discusses \"the problem that has no name\", female unhappiness in the 1950s and 1960s. It was through this book that Friedman was able to address many of the problems and the widespread recognition allowed her to later become president of the National Organization for Women(NOW). \n\nThroughout the piece Friedan addressed the problem that women had \"wanting more than a husband, children, and a home\". Friedan discusses the societal expectations of raising children and how this caused many women to not be able to do what they wanted. Many decisions that were made for women were made by men and this had worn out many women. She discusses the problem of education and that many families solely focused on education for the male children and women were instead \"assigned to be married to fulfill child-bearing expectations\". It was through the impact of this piece of literature that women were finally given a voice to say it was okay to not want to conform to societal expectations and fight for equality of opportunities, choices, marriage, education, and voting.\n\nThe main objection raised to equality feminism comes in the form of difference feminism, the belief that emphasizes the differences between men and women. This viewpoint, as championed by such feminists such as Carol Gilligan, Joan Tronto, Eva Feder Kittay, Genevieve Lloyd, Alison Jaggar, and Ynestra King, developed out of the rejection of the androgynous view of human nature as emphasized in equality feminism. Begun largely in the 1980s, this viewpoint makes the case that equality feminism fails to account for the uniquely female experience, and thus creates the male perspective as the dominant aspiration.\n\n"}
{"id": "11776466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11776466", "title": "Ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan", "text": "Ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan\n\nThis article focuses on ethnic minorities in the Republic of Azerbaijan.\n\nAccording to the 2009 census, ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan represent 8.9% of the population, including Lezgins (the largest minority group, making up 2.0% of the population), Russians (1.3%) and others, such as Talysh, Tats (Muslims and Judeo-Tats), Avars, Georgians, and Ashkenazi Jews, which comprise the remaining 3.9%.\n\nWhile Azerbaijanis formed a consistent majority, it is worth noting that there was a shift in the demographic trends in modern Azerbaijan even before the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Nagorno-Karabakh War, that lead to an exodus of some ethnic minorities, notably the Armenians and Russians, and conversely a large influx of Azerbaijani refugees from Armenia and Azerbaijani internally displaced persons from Nagorno-Karabakh and adjacent territories, thus giving Azerbaijan a more homogeneous character.\n\nAccording to Professor Douglass Blum:\n\nFreedom House has reported, in July 2005, that some ethnic minorities have encountered discrimination in such areas as housing, education, and employment. The United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) noted that, although Azerbaijan had demonstrated improvements by enacting legislation with provisions for racial discrimination, there had been no discrimination related cases prosecuted. In its summary record, the CERD questioned how such legislation would stem the reportedly discriminatory practices of public officials and law enforcement personnel. The CERD also recommended that Azerbaijan broaden its hitherto narrow understanding of discrimination by not only addressing its \"most severe and extreme manifestations\" but its commonplace occurrence. Concern over the lack of programs to support minority languages or those fostering inter-cultural education was also expressed by the Committee. Azerbaijan has attempted to curb discrimination by enacting laws., although the\n\nArticle 21 (\"State Language\") of Section II of the Constitution of Azerbaijan states:\nFurthermore, Article 45 (\"The Right to Use Native Language\") of Section III of the Constitution of Azerbaijan states:\nAccording to the 2007 report by the Council of Europe's Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI):\n\nAccording to other reports, there have been several complaints of ethnic unrest in Azerbaijan due to the assimilation politic of the government and its treatment of minorities. Among others the Avars, Talysh, Kurds and Tats.\n\nAccording to the Resolution on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities issued by the Council of Europe in 2004: \nAccording to the European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI), the human right's body of the Council of Europe:\n\nAccording to the 1998 book “Linguistic Minorities in Central and Eastern Europe”:\n\nThe Russian expert on the nationalities issue, Valery Tishkov, stated that Azerbaijan is one of the biggest assimilators of the former Soviet republics, the other two being Georgia and Uzbekistan.\n\nAccording to Radio Free Europe organization's analyst Liz Fuller, several Azerbaijan's ethnic representatives (such as Magomed Guseinov from the Avar National Council) have voiced public concern about forced assimilation and ethnic cleansing in order to ensure the predominance of Azerbaijani Turks in the country over Lezghins, Avars, Talysh, Tats, Kurds and other minorities.\n\nThe vast majority of Armenians in Azerbaijan live in territory controlled by the break-away region Nagorno-Karabakh. Non-official sources estimate that the number Armenians living on Azerbaijani territory outside Nagorno-Karabakh is around 2,000 to 3,000, and almost exclusively comprises persons married to Azeris or of mixed Armenian-Azeri descent. The number of Armenians who are likely not married to Azeris and are not of mixed Armenian-Azeri descent are estimated at 645 (36 men and 609 women) and more than half (378 or 59 per cent of Armenians in Azerbaijan outside Nagorno-Karabakh) live in Baku and the rest in rural areas. They are likely to be the elderly and sick, and probably have no other family members. Armenians in Azerbaijan are at a great risk as long as the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict remains unsettled.\n\nDuring Soviet rule, the question of Karabakh festered for Armenians. The Armenians of Karabakh made claims of economic neglect, charging that Azeri authorities with under-investment in the region in an attempt to keep it impoverished. In addition, Baku placed restrictions on cultural ties with Armenia. Tensions rose in the early 1960s, and in 1968 clashes erupted between Armenians and Azeris in Stepanakert (the capital of Nagorno-Karabakh). The Armenians feared that the Armenian character of Karabakh would disappear as it had in Nakhichevan over the decades, where the Armenian population had disappeared and all of the Armenian monuments were systematically removed and reportedly destroyed by the Azerbaijani authorities. In 1979, Nagorno-Karabakh had a 74% Armenian majority but received no Armenian television broadcasts and had no Armenian institution of higher learning\n\nAccording to Thomas De Wall:\n\nHowever, other evidence suggests that the Armenians lived in better conditions in Nagorno-Karabakh than Azerbaijanis. According to Yamskov,\n\nThe Soviet laws ensured that in Nagorno-Karabakh \"party and state organs were staffed primarily by Armenians who not only ensured Armenian cultural autonomy with Armenian-language newspapers, schools, and arts but strengthened it\" \n\nWar soon broke out over Nagorno Karabakh and ended in 1994 with the Armenian separatists gaining control over the territory. Turkic nationalism is the leading force in Baku and has undoubtedly contributed to the conflict with the Armenians given the historical enmity between Armenians and Turkey. All the major human rights monitors agreed that the status of Armenians, those married to or those who associate with Armenians, and those who are perceived to be sympathetic to Armenians, is extremely grave. There has also been numerous acts of vandalism against the Armenian Apostolic Church throughout Azerbaijan. The Armenians still remaining in Azerbaijan practically live in virtual hiding, and have also changed their Armenian names and surnames to Azerbaijani names and surnames because they have to maintain an extremely low profile to avoid harassment and physical attacks. They have continued to complain (in private due to fear of attacks) that they remain subject to harassmant and human rights violations and therefore have to hide their identity. Armenians and part Armenians living in Azerbaijan were reported as being refused permission to leave the country. They have also reported that the Department of Visas and Registrations took them off of the list of residents.\n\nA 1993 report from the American Embassy in Baku noted:\n\nAccording to a 1993 Department of Justice report:\n\nAzerbaijan has been accused of embarking on a campaign beginning in 1998 to completely destroy the vast cemetery of medieval Armenian khachkar gravestones in the archeological site of Julfa, Nakhchivan, an exclave of Azerbaijan. Claims by Armenians that Azerbaijan had undertaken a systematic campaign to destroy and remove the monuments first arose in late 1998, and those charges were renewed in 2002 and again in December 2005 following the final destruction of the site.\n\nNumerous appeals were filed by both Armenian and international organizations, condemning the Azerbaijani government and demanding it desist from such activity. In 2006, Azerbaijan barred European Parliament members from investigating the claims, charging them with a \"biased and hysterical approach\" to the issue and stating that it would only accept a delegation if it visited Armenian-controlled territory as well.\n\nAccording to European Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) 2011 Report on Azerbaijan \"the constant negative official and media discourse concerning the Republic of Armenia helps to sustain a negative climate of opinion regarding people of Armenian origin, who remain vulnerable to discrimination.\"\n\nThe presence of Kurds in Azerbaijan dates back to the 9th century. The area between Karabakh and Zangezur became inhabited by nomadic Kurdish tribes in the early nineteenth century, when a new wave of Kurdish migrants numbering 600 families led by Mihamed Sefi Siltan moved to the Karabakh Khanate from Persia. A smaller number of them also moved here in 1885 from the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThere were some 41,000 Kurds residing in Azerbaijan during the Soviet era. Local Kurds had always been on good terms with the Azerbaijani majority, a Kurdish radio station, newspaper and numerous schools attempt to keep Kurdish culture alive, but fewer families bother to teach their mother tongue.\n\nAccording to Thomas de Waal:\n\nThe geographical areas of concentration of Kurds in Azerbaijan were Kelbajar, Lachin, Qubadli and Zangilan districts, sandwiched between Armenia and the Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. In the course of Nagorno-Karabakh War, these regions came under occupation of the Armenian forces. As a result, Kurds along with the entire Azerbaijani population of these regions were displaced to other parts of Azerbaijan.\n\nBy the 1920s, the Kurdish community in Azerbaijan was considerably diminished, when many of them moved to Armenia where Kurdish villages were created. In the 1920s, the Kurdish community in Azerbaijan was considerably diminished, when many of them moved to Armenia where Kurdish villages were created. About the same time Azerbaijan's Kurds had their own region called Red Kurdistan in the Lachin region, which was to the West of Karabakh. In fact, Lachin with the principal towns Kalbajar, Qubadli and Zangilan and the administrative sub-divisions of Karakushlak, Koturli, Murad-Khanli and Kurd-Haji were mostly inhabited by Kurds. In 1930 it was abolished and most remaining Kurds were progressively recategorized as \"Azerbaijani\". In late 1930s Soviet authorities deported most of the Kurdish population of Azerbaijan and Armenia to Kazakhstan, and Kurds of Georgia also became victims of Stalin’s purges in 1944.\n\nThe problem is that the historical record of the Kurds in Azerbaijan is filled with lacunae. For instance, in 1979 there was according to the census no Kurds recorded. Not only did Turkey and Azerbaijan pursue an identical policy against the Kurds, they even employed identical techniques like forced assimilation, manipulation of population figures, settlement of non-Kurds in areas predominantly Kurdish, suppression of publications and abolition of Kurdish as a medium of instruction in schools. Kurdish historical figures such as Sharaf Khan of Bitlis and Ahmad Khani and the Shaddadid dynasty as a whole were described as Azeris. Kurds who retained 'Kurdish' as their nationality on their internal passports as opposed to 'Azeri' were unable to find employment.\n\nAccording to a 1926 census, there were 77,039 in Azerbaijan SSR. From 1959 to 1989, the Talysh were not included as a separate ethnic group in any census, but rather they were included as part of the Turkic-speaking Azerbaijani's, although the Talysh speak an Iranian language. In 1999, the Azerbaijani government claimed there were only 76,800 Talysh in Azerbaijan, but this is believed to be an under-representation given the problems with registering as a Talysh. Some claim that the population of the Talysh inhabiting the southern regions of Azerbaijan is 500,000. Talysh nationalists have always asserted that the number of Talysh in Azerbaijan is substantially higher than the official statistics.\n\nObtaining accurate statistics is difficult, due to the unavailability of reliable sources, intermarriage, and the decline of the Talysh language. and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty have voiced their concerns about the arrest of Novruzali Mamedov, Chairman of the Talysh Cultural Centre and editor-in-chief of the \"Tolyshi Sado\" newspaper. \n\nThe Talysh identity was strongly suppressed during Soviet times. In the early Soviet period, there were Talysh medium schools, a newspaper called \"Red Talysh\", and several Talysh language books published, but by end of the 1930s these schools were closed and the Talysh identity was not acknowledged in official statistics, with the Talysh being classified as \"Azerbaijani\".\n\nHistorical repression of identity and the inability to practice their culture and language has led the Talysh to an internalized self repression. This makes it hard to gauge support for any type of Talysh movement. According to Hema Kotecha, many Talysh fear being associated with the separatist Talysh-Mughan Autonomous Republic, with Russia, or with Armenia if they acknowledged or attempted to talk about their beliefs in the public sphere. One instance of current repression was when a school in Lerik wanted to invite a poet from Lenkoran to have a party in his honor and for him to speak to Children; the headmaster was told that he would be dismessed if the event went ahead. The fear of the police is also another factor to this silence, although support for a secular democracy and shared Azerbaijani-Talysh feelings towards Nagorno-Karabakh contribute as well.\n\nLezgins are the largest ethnic minority in Azerbaijan. The UNHCR states that Lezgins make up 40% of the populations of the Qusar and Khachmaz regions and that Greater Baku is 1.8% Lezgin. Official Azerbaijani government statistics state that the Lezgin population is only 2% of the total population of the country, bringing the number to 178,000, however, this figure could be up to double. Arif Yunus suggests that the figure is closer to 250,000-260,000, while some Lezgin nationalists claim that they number more than 700,000. Qusar town is approximately 90 to 95% Lezgin according to the local NGO Helsinki Committee office.\n\nAccording to the Center for International Development and Conflict Management at the University of Maryland:\n\nAccording to Thomas de Waal:\nAccording to Svante E. Cornell:\n\nRussians are the second largest ethnic minority in Azerbaijan and is also the largest Russian community in the South Caucasus and one of the largest outside of Russia. Since their arrival at the end of the eighteenth century, the Russians have played an important role in all spheres of life, particularly during the Czarist and Soviet period, especially in the capital the city of Baku.\n\nThe events of Black January, the economic downturn, and the war with Armenia, coupled with growing pessimism and psychological discomfort, and pressure from the Azerbaijani refugees from Armenia and Azeri internally displaced persons from Nagorno-Karabakh and adjacent territories, led to the exodus of Russian-speaking population of Azerbaijan. Between 1989 and 1999, the numbers of the Russian population fell from 392,000 to 142,000. As of 2009, the Russian population numbered 119,300 people.\n\nA representative of the Molokan (ethnic Russian) community, in an interview on July 21, 2005, reported that there is no conflict between ethnic Russians and Azeris in Azerbaijan and that \"there is no intolerance to the Russian language, culture or people\" according to a parliamentary official. Similarly, Interfax News Service, on July 6, 2004, reported that a Russian Foreign Ministry representative stated, \"We, Russians, have no particular problems in Azerbaijan\".\n\nAzerbaijan has claimed that neighboring countries - Armenia, Iran, and, to a lesser extent, Russia - support separatist sentiments in Azerbaijan.\n\nIn May 2005, Armenia organized the \"First International Conference on Talysh Studies\". The event was hosted by the Yerevan State University's Iranian Studies Department and the Yerevan-based Center for Iranian Studies in Armenian resort town of Tsaghkadzor. According to Vladimir Socor:\n\nIn April 1996, Azerbaijan's National Security Ministry claimed that Armenian intelligence recruited and trained Armenian members of the Daghestan-based Lezgin separatist organization \"Sadval\" who subsequently perpetrated a bomb attack on the Baku metro in March 1994 that killed 14 people.\n\nAccording to Hema Kotecha:\n\nIn the northern regions of Azerbaijan, Russia was reported to have linkage with Lezgin separatist movement:\n"}
{"id": "12428937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12428937", "title": "Fagani language", "text": "Fagani language\n\nThe Fagani language is a member of the family of San Cristobal languages, and is spoken in the northwest part of the island of Makira, formerly known as San Cristobal in the Solomon Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "14513821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14513821", "title": "Female public intellectuals", "text": "Female public intellectuals\n\nFemale public intellectuals refers to female intellectuals active within the public sphere. Although the term 'public intellectual' has traditionally remained non gender specific, it historically continues to be a role predominantly occupied by men. Consequently, the intellectual history of women continues to be undervalued and discredited. There are a number of explanations for the lack of female public intellectuals as compared to their male counterparts. These explanations address issues such as institutionalized discrimination within the academy, the problems which arise from female intellectuals who strongly advocate feminist ideology and theory and the impact of the media and academy in the conceptualization of 'woman as her body'.\n\nThe traditional exclusion of women from the public sphere and from contributing to or initiating discourse as public intellectuals stems from the exclusion and discrimination of women within the academic field.\n\nThe origin of this discrimination lies in the power relations existing both in universities and other higher education establishments that have facilitated the institutionalization of hegemonic masculinity concepts. This means that it is possible to identify the language, concepts, codes and conventions of academia as recognizably “a man’s world”, something which poses serious restrictions on women eager to establish both a professional and intellectual identity. Because universities essentially originated from all-male communities which for six hundred years sought specifically to exclude women from participation, the initial identification of knowledge was with men, a notion which still remains powerful and destructive for women academics today.\n\nThis association of men with knowledge is also an important consideration when explaining the absence of female public intellectuals. Women who struggle to establish a career in academia, (because their approach to and accumulation of knowledge may be viewed as less credible than that of their male counterparts) also inevitably struggle to carve out a career as a public intellectual for the same reason. This is because the process of being identified as intellectually able, making a reputation, mentoring and networking tends to provide cumulative advantages to men and disadvantages to women. The continuous privileging of men and hegemonic masculinities and devaluation of women and feminists has had cumulative effects on those who have succeeded in becoming senior academics and/or public intellectuals.\n\nConsidering that many public intellectuals also tend to emerge from an esteemed background in academia, such as Noam Chomsky and Richard Dawkins, it is clear to see why women continue to struggle within the public intellectual sphere. In the academic profession, ‘The main currency….is reputation’ (Becher 1989, p. 52). Peer evaluation of intellectual work, theses, publications, conference papers and research applications is the basis of academic careers. Thus if men, in senior academic positions are judging the work of women who occupy less prestigious roles, it could be argued that the intellectual contributions of women to the academy may be subject to discrimination and male standards of approval, leading the work of women to be devalued.\n\nThis scenario is also applicable to public intellectuals, the most senior of whom have both the power and duty to evaluate and make judgement upon the work of their peers. Essentially, the most successful public intellectuals, most commonly men, possess the power to control the careers of aspirants (often women) by evaluating their intellectual output, theses, papers, books and research applications. However, if the same principles of hegemonic masculinity apply to the world of the public intellectual as they do to the academy, then there is usually only a limited opportunity for women to use either their academic background as a springboard for establishing themselves as public intellectuals, or outside of the academy, to be recognised as a credible individual, with important things to say.\n\nOne theory as to why there is a notable lack of female public intellectuals is that by approaching their work from a distinctly feminist perspective many women intellectuals tend to alienate themselves from the wider public. Feminist theory often has a narrow focus dealing with themes such as discrimination, stereotyping, objectification (especially sexual objectification), oppression and patriarchy which despite their importance may only appeal to a small interest-group. In this case, female intellectuals arguing from an ideological feminist perspective fail to embody a primary characteristic of the public intellectual; synthesizing disparate areas of knowledge for a broader lay audience.\n\nArguing from a strictly feminist standpoint can lead female intellectuals to neglect engaging in debate upon a broad spectrum of topics; science, politics, high and low art, literature, evolution, the Iraq War and the origins of the universe are some examples. However, women intellectuals can offer valuable perspective as they are able to offer a different examination of public discourse. Women's perspectives and histories are valuable contributions to not just women, but all whom are only acquainted with a bias cultural hegemony. Despite the odds, female intellectuals, such as Germaine Greer, Gloria Steinem, Betty Friedan, Barbara Ehrenreich, Naomi Wolf, Susan Faludi, Deborah Tannen, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Natalie Angier, though this is hardly an exhaustive list, offer a different viewpoint and draw from their lived experiences as women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8384817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8384817", "title": "Gourmet Society", "text": "Gourmet Society\n\nThe Gourmet Society is a UK-based dining club. Each member holds a Gourmet Society restaurant discount card, which entitles them to savings at UK restaurants.\n\nInitially developed in the Midlands in 2003, the Gourmet Society was the UK's first national diners' club. Members pay an annual subscription, and receive discounts at participating restaurants. Members receive a discount card, and many members also receive a copy of the printed restaurant directory. \n\nAs of May 2017, there are over 7,000 participating restaurants in the UK and Ireland.\n\nGourmet Society members get either 2-for-1 meals; 50% off food; or 25% off their food and drink bill. Members also get access to discounted tickets at UK cinemas (up to 40% off), as well as access to discounts at UK retailers.\n\nMembership is purchased through the website, and costs £69.99 for a year, although there are shorter trials available such as their £1 for 60 days trial and occasionally £34.99 yearly membership promotions. The Gourmet Society also works with other companies (including the AA, Barclays and Nectar ) to provide users of their services with discounted memberships.\n\nParticipating restaurants include popular chains, independent venues, and AA Rosette and Michelin star venues. Michelin starred restaurants include Benares and JSW. Details of the offer and restrictions can be found on their website, in the printed restaurant guide and the smartphone app.\n\nOn 8th April, 2016 the Gourmet Society was featured on the BBC Radio 4 programme You and Yours. It was claimed that some users who had taken a free introductory offer were charged the full annual fee earlier than they should have been. Criticism also centred around the poor customer service offered by Gourmet Society when customers tried to get some redress. Gourmet Society stated an understanding of the issue, and have changed their terms and conditions moving forwards to ensure that customers cannot be confused regarding their renewal date. \n\n"}
{"id": "32568624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32568624", "title": "Hill Nubian languages", "text": "Hill Nubian languages\n\nThe Hill Nubian languages, also called Kordofan Nubian, are a group or dialect continuum of Nubian languages spoken by the Hill Nubians in the northern Nuba Mountains of Sudan.\n\nThe Hill Nubian languages are generally classified as being in the Central branch of the Nubian languages, one of three branches of the Nubian languages, the other two being Northern (Nile), consisting of Nobiin, and Western (Darfur), consisting of Midob. They are grouped together with Kenzi-Dongolawi (not seen to be closely related to Nobiin, despite their proximity) and Birgid, a language of southwestern Sudan extinct since the 1970s. Nubian lies within the Eastern Sudanic family, which is part of the Nilo-Saharan phylum.\n\nThere are seven Hill Nubian languages, according to \"Ethnologue\" and Glottolog. Some of the languages have dialects. Their internal classification within Hull Nubian is not well established. Glottolog classifies Hill Nubian (Kordofan Nubian) into two branches: Eastern Kordofan Nubian and Western Kordofan Nubian, containing three and four languages respectively. \"Ethnologue\", however, only groups Kadaru and Ghulfan together, leaving the rest unclassified within Hill Nubian, as follows:\nAdditionally, one extinct language known only from a word list of 36 words, Haraza, is unclassified within Hill Nubian.\n\nMore information on specific linguistic characteristics and/or variations among Hill Nubian languages\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37723068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37723068", "title": "History of slavery in Asia", "text": "History of slavery in Asia\n\nSlavery has existed all throughout Asia, and forms of slavery still exist today.\n\nSlavery in India is evidenced since ancient times. Manu the Lawgiver, in his \"Manu Smriti\" lists seven different kinds of slaves. The nature of slavery in India was extremely complex and cut across boundaries of caste, gender, kin, religion, and role.\n\nThe early Arab invaders of Sind in the 8th century, the armies of the Umayyad commander Muhammad bin Qasim, are reported to have enslaved tens of thousands of Indian prisoners, including both soldiers and civilians. In the early 11th century Tarikh al-Yamini, the Arab historian Al-Utbi recorded that in 1001 the armies of Mahmud of Ghazna conquered Peshawar and Waihand (capital of Gandhara) after Battle of Peshawar (1001), \"in the midst of the land of Hindustan\", and captured some 100,000 youths. Later, following his twelfth expedition into India in 1018–19, Mahmud is reported to have returned with such a large number of slaves that their value was reduced to only two to ten dirhams each. This unusually low price made, according to Al-Utbi, \"merchants [come] from distant cities to purchase them, so that the countries of Central Asia, Iraq and Khurasan were swelled with them, and the fair and the dark, the rich and the poor, mingled in one common slavery\". Elliot and Dowson refers to \"five hundred thousand slaves, beautiful men and women.\". Later, during the Delhi Sultanate period (1206–1555), references to the abundant availability of low-priced Indian slaves abound. Levi attributes this primarily to the vast human resources of India, compared to its neighbors to the north and west (India's Mughal population being approximately 12 to 20 times that of Turan and Iran at the end of the 16th century).\n\nThe Siddi are an ethnic group inhabiting India and Pakistan. Members are descended from Bantu peoples from Southeast Africa that were brought to the Indian subcontinent as slaves by Arab and Portuguese merchants.\n\nMuch of the northern and central parts of the subcontinent was ruled by the so-called Slave Dynasty of Turkic origin from 1206 to 1290: Qutb-ud-din Aybak, a slave of Muhammad Ghori rose to power following his master's death. For almost a century, his descendants ruled presiding over the introduction of Tankas and building of Qutub Minar.\n\nAccording to Sir Henry Bartle Frere (who sat on the Viceroy's Council), there were an estimated 8,000,000 or 9,000,000 slaves in India in 1841. In Malabar, about 15% of the population were slaves. Slavery was officially abolished in India by the Indian Slavery Act V. of 1843. Provisions of the Indian Penal Code of 1861 effectively abolished slavery in India by making the enslavement of human beings a criminal offense.\n\nThere are an estimated five million bonded workers in Pakistan, even though the government has passed laws and set up funds to eradicate the practice and rehabilitate the labourers. As many as 200,000 Nepali girls, many\nunder 14, have been sold into sex slavery in India. Nepalese women and girls, especially virgins, are favored in India because of their fair skin and young looks. In 1997, a human rights agency reported that 40,000 Nepalese workers are subject to slavery and 200,000 kept in bonded labour. Nepal's Maoist-led government has abolished the slavery-like Haliya system in 2008.\n\nAccording to a report of an expedition to Afghanistan published in London in 1871:\n\nIn response to the Hazara uprising of 1892, the Afghan Emir Abdur Rahman Khan declared a \"Jihad\" against the Shiites. His large army defeated the rebellion at its center, in Oruzgan, by 1892 and the local population was being massacred. According to S. A. Mousavi, \"thousands of Hazara men, women, and children were sold as slaves in the markets of Kabul and Qandahar, while numerous towers of human heads were made from the defeated rebels as a warning to others who might challenge the rule of the Amir\". Until the 20th century, some Hazaras were still kept as slaves by the Pashtuns; although Amanullah Khan banned slavery in Afghanistan in the 1923 Constitution, the practice carried on unofficially for many more years.\n\nSlavery throughout pre-modern Chinese history has repeatedly come in and out of favor. Due to the enormous population and relatively high development of the region throughout most of its history, China has always had a large workforce.\n\nThe Tang dynasty purchased Western slaves from the Radanite Jews. Tang Chinese soldiers and pirates enslaved Koreans, Turks, Persians, Indonesians, and people from Inner Mongolia, central Asia, and northern India. The greatest source of slaves came from southern tribes, including Thais and aboriginals from the southern provinces of Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, and Guizhou. Malays, Khmers, Indians, and black Africans were also purchased as slaves in the Tang dynasty.\n\nMany Han Chinese were enslaved in the process of the Mongols invasion of China proper. According to Japanese historian Sugiyama Masaaki (杉山正明) and Funada Yoshiyuki (舩田善之), there were also certain number of Mongolian slaves owned by Han Chinese during the Yuan dynasty. Moreover, there is no evidence that Han Chinese, who were considered people of the bottom of Yuan society by some research, were suffered a particularly cruel abuse.\n\nIn the 17th century Qing Dynasty, there was a hereditarily servile people called \"Booi Aha\" (Manchu:booi niyalma; Chinese transliteration: 包衣阿哈), which is a Manchu word literally translated as \"household person\" and sometimes rendered as \"nucai\".\n\nIn his book \"China Marches West\", Peter C. Perdue stated:\"In 1624(After Nurhachi's invasion of Liaodong) \"Chinese households...while those with less were made into slaves.\" The Manchu was establishing close personal and paternalist relationship between masters and their slaves, as Nurhachi said, \"The Master should love the slaves and eat the same food as him\". Perdue further pointed out that booi aha \"did not correspond exactly to the Chinese category of \"bond-servant slave\" (Chinese:奴僕); instead, it was a relationship of personal dependency on a master which in theory guaranteed close personal relationships and equal treatment, even though many western scholars would directly translate \"booi\" as \"bond-servant\" (some of the \"booi\" even had their own servant).\n\n\nChinese Muslim (Tungans) Sufis who were charged with practicing xiejiao (heterodox religion), were punished by exile to Xinjiang and being sold as a slave to other Muslims, such as the Sufi begs.\n\nHan chinese who committed crimes such as those dealing with opium became slaves to the begs, this practice was administered by Qing law. Most Chinese in Altishahr were exile slaves to Turkestani Begs. Ironically, while free Chinese merchants generally did not engage in relationships with East Turkestani women, some of the Chinese slaves belonging to begs, along with Green Standard soldiers, Bannermen, and Manchus, engaged in affairs with the East Turkestani women that were serious in nature.\n\nThe Qing dynasty procured 420 women and girl slaves, all of them Mongol, to service Oirat Mongol bannermen stationed in Xinjiang in 1764. Many Torghut Mongol boys and girls were sold to Central Asian markets or on the local Xinjiang market to native Turkestanis.\n\nHere are two accounts of slavery given by two Westerners in the late 19th century and early 20th century:\n\n\"In the houses of wealthy citizens, it is not unusual to find twenty to thirty slaves attending upon a family. Even citizens in the humbler walks of life deem it necessary to have each a slave or two. The price of a slave varies, of course, according to age, health, strength, and general appearance. The average price is from fifty to one hundred dollars, but in time of war, or revolution, poor parents, on the verge of starvation, offer their sons and daughters for sale at remarkably low prices. I remember instances of parents, rendered destitute by the marauding bands who invested the two southern \"Kwangs\" in 1854–55, offering to sell their daughters in Canton for five dollars apiece. . . .\n\nThe slavery to which these unfortunate persons are subject, is perpetual and hereditary, and they have no parental authority over their offspring. The great-grandsons of slaves, however, can, if they have sufficient means, purchase their freedom. . . .\n\nMasters seem to have the same uncontrolled power over their slaves that parents have over their children. Thus a master is not called to account for the death of a slave, although it is the result of punishment inflicted by him.\"\n\n\"In former times slaves were slain and offered in sacrifice to the spirit of the owner when dead, or by him to his ancestors: sometimes given as a substitute to suffer the death penalty incurred by his owner or in fulfilment of a vow. It used to be customary in Kuei-chou (and Szü-chuan too, I believe) to inter living slaves with their dead owners; the slaves were to keep a lamp burning in the tomb...\n\n\"Slavery exists in China, especially in Canton and Peking... It is a common thing for well-to-do people to present a couple of slave girls to a daughter as part of her marriage dowery [sic]. Nearly all prostitutes are slaves. It is, however, customary with respectable people to release their slave girls when marriageable. Some people sell their slave girls to men wanting a wife for themselves or for a son of theirs.\n\n\"I have bought three different girls: two in Szü-chuan for a few taels each, less than fifteen dollars. One I released in Tientsin, another died in Hongkong; the other I gave in marriage to a faithful servant of mine. Some are worth much money at Shanghai.\"\nAll forms of slavery have been illegal in China since 1910, although the practice still exists through illegal trafficking in some areas.\n\nThroughout the 1930s and 1940s the Yi people (also known as Nuosu) of China terrorized Sichuan to rob and enslave non-Nuosu including Han people. The descendants of the Han Chinese slaves are the White Yi (白彝) and they outnumber the Black Yi (黑彝) aristocracy by ten to one. As much as tens of thousands of Han slaves were incorporated into Nuosu society every year. The Han slaves and their offspring were used for manual labor. There is a saying goes like: \"the worst insult to a Nuosu is to call him a \"Han\" (with the implication being that \"your ancestors were slaves\")\".\n\nSlavery in Japan was, for most of its history, indigenous, since the export and import of slaves was restricted by Japan being a group of islands. The export of a slave from Japan is recorded in a 3rd-century Chinese document, although the system involved is unclear. These people were called , lit. \"living mouth\". \"Seiko\" from historical theories are thought to be as prisoner, slave, a person who has technical skill and also students studying abroad to China.\n\nIn the 8th century, a slave was called and a series of laws on slavery was issued. In an area of present-day Ibaraki Prefecture, out of a population of 190,000, around 2,000 were slaves; the proportion is believed to have been even higher in western Japan.\n\nSlavery persisted into the Sengoku period (1467–1615), but the attitude that slavery was anachronistic had become widespread. Oda Nobunaga is said to have had an African slave or former-slave in his retinue. Korean prisoners of war were shipped to Japan as slaves during the Japanese invasions of Korea in the 16th century.\n\nIn 1595, Portugal passed a law banning the selling and buying of Chinese and Japanese slaves. but forms of contract and indentured labor persisted alongside the period penal codes' forced labor. Somewhat later, the Edo period penal laws prescribed \"non-free labor\" for the immediate family of executed criminals in Article 17 of the \"Gotōke reijō\" (Tokugawa House Laws), but the practice never became common. The 1711 \"Gotōke reijō\" was compiled from over 600 statutes promulgated between 1597 and 1696.\n\nAs the Empire of Japan annexed Asian countries, from the late 19th century onwards, archaic institutions including slavery were abolished in those countries. However, during the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Pacific War, the Japanese military used millions of civilians and prisoners of war as forced labor, on projects such as the Burma Railway.\n\nAccording to a joint study by historians including Zhifen Ju, Mitsuyoshi Himeta, Toru Kubo and Mark Peattie, more than 10 million Chinese civilians were mobilized by the \"Kōa-in\" (Japanese Asia Development Board) for forced labour. According to the Japanese military's own record, nearly 25% of 140,000 Allied POWs died while interned in Japanese prison camps where they were forced to work (U.S. POWs died at a rate of 37%). More than 100,000 civilians and POWs died in the construction of the Burma-Siam Railway. The U.S. Library of Congress estimates that in Java, between 4 and 10 million \"romusha\" (Japanese: \"manual laborer\"), were forced to work by the Japanese military. About 270,000 of these Javanese laborers were sent to other Japanese-held areas in South East Asia. Only 52,000 were repatriated to Java, meaning that there was a death rate of 80%. (For further details, see Japanese war crimes.)\n\nApproximately 5,400,000 Koreans were conscripted into labor from 1944 to 1945 by the National Mobilization Law. About 670,000 of them were brought to Japan, where about 60,000 died between 1939 and 1945 due mostly to exhaustion or poor working conditions. Many of those taken to Karafuto Prefecture (modern-day Sakhalin) were trapped there at the end of the war, stripped of their nationality and denied repatriation by Japan; they became known as the Sakhalin Koreans. The total deaths of Korean forced laborers in Korea and Manchuria for those years is estimated to be between 270,000 and 810,000.\n\nThe Joseon dynasty of Korea was a hierarchical society that consisted of social classes. Cheonmin, the lowest class, included occupations such as butchers, shamans, prostitutes, entertainers, and also members of the slave class known as \"nobi\". Low status was hereditary, but members of higher classes could be reduced to cheonmin as a form of legal punishment. During poor harvests and famine, many peasants voluntarily sold themselves into the nobi class in order to survive. The nobi were socially indistinct from freemen other than the ruling yangban class, and some possessed property rights, legal entities and civil rights. Hence, some scholars argue that it's inappropriate to call them \"slaves\", while some scholars describe them as serfs. The nobi population could fluctuate up to about one-third of the population, but on average the nobi made up about 10% of the total population. In 1801, the vast majority of government nobi were emancipated, and by 1858 the nobi population stood at about 1.5 percent of the total population of Korea. The hereditary nobi system was officially abolished around 1886–87 and the rest of the nobi system was abolished with the Gabo Reform of 1894, but traces remained until 1930.\n\nThere was a large slave class in Khmer Empire who built the enduring monuments in Angkor and did most of the heavy work. Slaves had been taken captive from the mountain tribes. People unable to pay back a debt to the upper ruling class could be sentenced to work as a slave too. Between the 17th and the early 20th centuries one-quarter to one-third of the population of some areas of Thailand and Burma were slaves.\n\nIn Siam (Thailand), the war captives became the property of the king. During the reign of Rama III (1824–1851), there were an estimated 46,000 war slaves. Slaves from independent hill populations were \"hunted incessantly and carried off as slaves by the Siamese, the Anamites, and the Cambodians\" (Colquhoun 1885:53). Slavery was not abolished in Siam until 1905.\n\nYi people in Yunnan practiced a complicated form of slavery. People were split into the Black Yi (nobles, 7% of the population), White Yi (commoners), Ajia (33% of the Yi population) and the Xiaxi (10%). Ajia and Xiaxi were slave castes. The White Yi were not slaves but had no freedom of movement. The Black Yi were famous for their slave-raids on Han Chinese communities. After 1959 some 700,000 slaves were freed.\n\nSlaves in Toraja society in Indonesia were family property. Sometimes Torajans decided to become slaves when they incurred a debt, pledging to work as payment. Slaves could be taken during wars, and slave trading was common. Torajan slaves were sold and shipped out to Java and Siam. Slaves could buy their freedom, but their children still inherited slave status. Slaves were prohibited from wearing bronze or gold, carving their houses, eating from the same dishes as their owners, or having sex with free women—a crime punishable by death. Slavery was abolished in 1863 in all Dutch colonies.\n\nSlavery was practiced by the tribal Austronesian peoples in pre-Spanish Philippines. Slaves were part of the lowest caste (\"alipin\") in ancient Filipino societies. A caste which also included commoners. However, the characterization of \"alipin\" as \"slaves\" is not entirely accurate. Modern scholars in Philippine history prefer to use more accurate terms like \"serfs\" or \"bondsmen\" instead.\n\nSlavery in Southeast Asia reached its peak in late 18th and early 19th centuries, when fleets of \"lanong\" and \"garay\" warships of the Iranun and Banguingui people started engaging in piracy and coastal raids for slave and plunder throughout Southeast Asia from their territories within the Sultanate of Sulu and Maguindanao. It is estimated that from 1770 to 1870, around 200,000 to 300,000 people were enslaved by Iranun and Banguingui slavers. They came from ships and settlements as far as the Malacca Strait, Java, the southern coast of China and the islands beyond the Makassar Strait. The scale was so massive that the word for \"pirate\" in Malay became \"Lanun\", an exonym of the Iranun people. Male captives of the Iranun and the Banguingui were treated brutally, even fellow Muslim captives were not spared. They were usually forced serve as galley slaves on the ships of their captors. Female captives, however, were usually treated better. There were no recorded accounts of rapes, though some were starved for discipline. Most of the slaves were Tagalogs, Visayans, and \"Malays\" (including Bugis, Mandarese, Iban, and Makassar). There were also occasional European and Chinese captives who were usually ransomed off through Tausug intermediaries of the Sulu Sultanate.\n\nEuropean powers finally succeeded in the mid-1800s in cutting off these raids through use of steam-powered warships.\n\nIn Singapore in 1891 there was a regular trade in Chinese slaves by Muslim slaveowners, with girls and women sold for concubinage.\n\nThe U.S. Library of Congress estimates that in Java, between 4 and 10 million romusha (Japanese: \"manual laborer\") were forced to work by the Japanese military in World War II. About 270,000 of these Javanese laborers were sent to other Japanese-held areas in South East Asia. Only 52,000 were repatriated to Java, meaning that there was a death rate of 80%.\n\nWithin the Asia-Pacific region, there were as of 2015 an estimated 11.7 million trafficked people; within the Asia Pacific, the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), which includes Cambodia, China, Laos, Burma (Myanmar), Thailand and Vietnam, \"features some of the most extensive flows of migration and human trafficking.\" Industries with major problems with human trafficking and forced labor in Southeast Asia include fisheries, agriculture, manufacturing, construction and domestic work. The child sex trade has also plagued southeast Asia, where \"[m]ost sources agree that far more than 1 million underage children are 'effectively enslaved'\" as of 2006. \n\nIt is common that Thai women are lured to Japan and sold to Yakuza-controlled brothels where they are forced to work off their price.\n\nAccording to the International Labour Organization (ILO), an estimated 800,000\npeople are subject to forced labor in Myanmar. In November 2006, the International Labour Organization announced it will be seeking \"to prosecute members of the ruling Myanmar junta for crimes against humanity\" over the continuous forced labor of its citizens by the military at the International Court of Justice.\n\nAs of end-2015, Singapore has acceded to international standards of prosecuting and convicting human traffickers under the United Nations Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children.\n\nIn the time of the Crimean Khanate, Crimeans engaged in frequent raids into the Danubian principalities, Poland-Lithuania, and Muscovy. For each captive, the khan received a fixed share (savğa) of 10% or 20%. The campaigns by Crimean forces categorize into \"sefers\", officially declared military operations led by the khans themselves, and \"çapuls\", raids undertaken by groups of noblemen, sometimes illegally because they contravened treaties concluded by the khans with neighbouring rulers. For a long time, until the early 18th century, the khanate maintained a massive Slave Trade with the Ottoman Empire and the Middle East. Caffa was one of the best known and significant trading ports and slave markets. Crimean Tatar raiders enslaved more than 1 million Eastern Europeans.\n\nRussian conquest of the Caucasus led to the abolition of slavery by the 1860s and the conquest of the Central Asian Islamic khanates of Bukhara, Samarkand, and Khiva by the 1870s. The Russian administration liberated the slaves of the Kazakhs in 1859. A notorious slave market for captured Russian and Persian slaves was centred in the Khanate of Khiva from the 17th to the 19th century. During the first half of the 19th century alone, some one million Persians, as well as an unknown number of Russians, were enslaved and transported to Central Asian khanates. When the Russian troops took Khiva in 1898 there were 29,300 Persian slaves, captured by Turkoman raiders. According of Josef Wolff (Report of 1843–1845) the population of the Khanate of Bukhara was 1,200,000, of whom 200,000 were Persian slaves. At the beginning of the 21st century Chechens and Ingush kept Russian captives as slaves or in slave-like conditions in the mountains of the northern Caucasus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30166646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166646", "title": "Human trafficking in Peru", "text": "Human trafficking in Peru\n\nPeru is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced labor and forced prostitution. Several thousand persons are estimated to be subjected to conditions of forced labor within Peru, mainly in mining, logging, agriculture, brick making, and domestic servitude. Many trafficking victims are women and girls from impoverished rural regions of the Amazon, recruited and coerced into prostitution in urban nightclubs, bars, and brothels, often through false employment offers or promises of education. Indigenous persons are particularly vulnerable to debt bondage. Forced child labor remains a problem, particularly in informal gold mines, cocaine production, and transportation. There were reports the terrorist group Sendero Luminoso, or Shining Path, recruited children as soldiers and drug mules. To a lesser extent, Peruvians are subjected to forced prostitution in Ecuador, Spain, Italy, Japan, and the United States, and forced labor in Argentina, Chile, and Brazil. Peru also is a destination country for some Ecuadorian and Bolivian females in forced prostitution, and some Bolivian citizens in conditions of forced labor. Child sex tourism is present in Iquitos, Madre de Dios, and Cuzco. Traffickers reportedly operate with impunity in certain regions where there is little or no government presence.\n\nThe Government of Peru does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. Last year, the government increased law enforcement efforts against trafficking crimes and maintained public awareness initiatives. However, the government failed to provide adequate victim services and made insufficient efforts to address the high incidence of labor trafficking in the country. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nThe Government of Peru improved efforts to combat human trafficking through law enforcement last year. Law 28950 prohibits all forms of trafficking in persons, prescribing penalties of eight to 25 years’ imprisonment depending on the circumstances. These penalties are sufficiently stringent and commensurate with those prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. During the reporting period, police investigated 137 trafficking cases; of these, 34 involved forced labor and 103 involved sex trafficking, with a total of 185 reported victims. Authorities brought forth 78 trafficking cases to the judiciary and secured the convictions of nine sex trafficking offenders, who received sentences ranging from three to 30 years’ imprisonment, in addition to fines. In comparison, Peruvian authorities prosecuted 54 cases and convicted five sex trafficking offenders the previous year. However, there were very few prosecutions and no convictions reported for forced labor offenses, despite an estimated high incidence of forced labor in the country. The government’s dedicated anti-trafficking police unit consisted of approximately 30 officers.\n\nPolice maintained and expanded the use of an electronic case tracking system for human trafficking investigations, although this system did not track judicial activity, such as prosecutions and convictions. Corruption among low-level officials enabled trafficking in certain instances, and individual police officers tolerated the operation of unlicensed brothels and the prostitution of children. No investigations or allegations of official complicity with trafficking activity were reported last year. The government provided training on human trafficking to law enforcement officials, immigration officials, diplomats, and legal officials, among others. The government collaborated with foreign governments on anti-trafficking initiatives and investigations.\n\nThe government provided limited assistance to trafficking victims last year. The government did not employ a formal mechanism for identifying trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, such as adult women in prostitution. While the government had no formal process for referring trafficking victims for treatment, authorities could refer child victims of trafficking to government-operated children’s homes for basic shelter and care, two of which provide specialized care to victims of commercial sexual exploitation. Similarly, the government operated general shelters for adult female victims of abuse, which some trafficking victims accessed during the reporting period. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) provided care to sexually exploited women; however, specialized services and shelter for trafficking victims remained largely unavailable. The government did not provide financial assistance to anti-trafficking NGOs, though it provided in-kind support; adequate victim services remained unavailable in many parts of the country.\n\nForeign victims had access to the same services as Peruvian victims. Last year, Peruvian authorities identified 185 trafficking victims, 159 women and 26 menthough the number of victims in the country is thought to be much higherand provided 19 of these victims with legal, social, and psychological services. Some trafficking victims were not advised of their rights or provided with medical treatment, and some police officers released them without recognizing their victim status or referring them to shelters; some of these victims ended up returning to brothels in search of shelter and food.\n\nLack of victim participation in the investigation or prosecution of traffickers remained a problem, in addition to the lack of a witness protection program. Some victims may not have pursued legal redress because they could not afford legal representation. The government did not penalize victims for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked. Trafficking victims were eligible for temporary and permanent residency status under Peruvian refugee law, and at least 11 victims were granted such permanent residency. During the year, authorities assisted foreign trafficking victims with voluntary repatriation. Many of the country’s 412 labor inspectors have received training on forced labor; in 2009, the government created an elite team of five inspectors to address forced labor in the Amazon, but the team found their budget was insufficient to complete the mission.\n\nThe Government of Peru sustained anti-trafficking prevention efforts. The government maintained an anti-trafficking campaign and operated and promoted a hotline for trafficking-related crimes and information, which received 44 reports of trafficking in 2009. The government continued to air anti-trafficking videos in transportation hubs, warning travelers of the legal consequences of engaging in trafficking activity or consuming services from trafficked persons. Although some areas of the country are known child sex tourism destinations and Peruvian laws prohibit this practice, there were no reported convictions of child sex tourists. The government trained 710 government officials and tourism service providers about child sex tourism, conducted a public awareness campaign on the issue, and reached out to the tourism industry to raise awareness about child sex tourism; to date, 60 businesses have signed code of conduct agreements nationwide. No efforts to reduce demand for commercial sex acts or forced labor were reported. The government provided Peruvian peacekeepers with human rights training prior to deployment.\nIn October 2011, almost 300 women and young girls were rescued from sexual exploitation in a raid in an Amazonian region of Peru known as a gold mining hub.\n\n"}
{"id": "29215685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29215685", "title": "Indians in the Netherlands", "text": "Indians in the Netherlands\n\nIndians in the Netherlands are residents of Indian origin in the Netherlands. Most of the people of Indian descent in the Netherlands are of Indo-Surinamese origin. More recently the flow of expats from India has increased.\n\nAfter the Dutch government signed a treaty with the United Kingdom on the recruitment of contract workers, the Indians began migrating to Suriname in 1873 from what was then British India as indentured labourers, many from the modern-day Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and the surrounding regions. Just before and just after the independence of Suriname on 25 November 1975 many Indo-Surinamese emigrated to the Netherlands, mainly because of the uncertain future that awaited them. A large part of this population was against the detachment of the Netherlands.\n\nIn December 2001 the High Level Committee on Indian Diaspora estimated the population of PIO's and Indian citizens at 215,000. According to the Dutch governmental institution Statistics Netherlands (CBS), in January 2016, 32,682 people had their origin from immigrants from India. The Embassy of India states that the Netherlands has the \"second largest population of people of Indian origin in Europe (next only to UK)\" and that it is \"home to about 220,000 Indian and Surinamese Hindustani Diaspora.\" The Netherlands India Chamber of Commerce & Trade (NICCT) states the there are about 25,000 Indians or persons of Indian origin, excluding the Surinamese Hindustanis.\n\nCurrently there are more than 120,000 Indo-Surinamese living in the Netherlands, of which the majority, about 50,000, in The Hague and surroundings.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37670725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37670725", "title": "John Lofting", "text": "John Lofting\n\nJohn Lofting (1659 – 15 June 1742, London), originally Jan Loftingh, was an engineer and entrepreneur from the Netherlands. His parents were Herman and Johanna. He moved to London, England, before 1686. He patented two inventions: the \"sucking worm engine\" (a fire engine) and a horse-powered thimble knurling machine. His mill was set up in Islington, where Lofting Road is named after him. However, in or about 1700, he moved his main operation to Great Marlow in Buckinghamshire to take advantage of the River Thames' ability to turn a water wheel which improved productivity, enabling the production of over 2 million thimbles per year.\n"}
{"id": "1561255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561255", "title": "Koreshan Unity", "text": "Koreshan Unity\n\nThe Koreshan Unity was a communal utopia formed by Cyrus Teed, who took the name \"Koresh\", the original Persian form of his name Cyrus. The Koreshans followed Teed's beliefs, called Koreshanity.\n\nThe Koreshan Unity started in the 1870s in New York, where Teed started preaching his beliefs. He formed short-lived groups in New York City and Moravia. He later moved to Chicago. Teed's followers formed a commune in Chicago in 1888 called Beth-Ophra. Some followers also formed a short-lived community in San Francisco (1891-2). Small church groups existed in other towns.\n\nThere was a tri-level system of membership. \nWithin each of these three levels were three distinct branches, the Secular System, the Commercial System, and the Educational System, with a total of nine groups.\n\nEventually, Teed took his followers to Estero, Florida, to form his \"New Jerusalem\" in 1894. The community was at its peak 1903–1908, when it had over 250 residents. There were apparently another 4,000 believers around the country. Teed had a vision in which he was to establish a utopian city of 10,000,000 with streets up to wide. Membership declined following his death in 1908.\n\nThe group built extensively, establishing a bakery, printing house (publishing their newspaper and other publications), the \"World College of Life\", a general store, concrete works, power plant (supplying power to the surrounding area years before it was available elsewhere in the region) and more. The colony was extensively landscaped. There has been work to document and preserve the grounds in Estero (a Florida State Park.)\n\nIn 1906, the community formed the Progressive Liberal Party to run several candidates for county government against the local Democratic Party but were never successful. This Progressive Liberal Party consisted of Koreshans, socialists, Republicans, and dissatisfied Democrats. The Koreshans had already incorporated Estero and were seeking further political power in Lee County. After Teed died in 1908 the group went into decline. Several groups split off from the Unity. One such group was the Order of Theocracy that left in 1910 and moved to nearby Ft. Myers. This group lasted until 1931. The fact the Unity was celibate did not help, although celibacy was not the real problem since there was a married status within the Unity. Celibates were the highest order. Without new members joining, the group slowly dwindled. It continued to publish the \"Flaming Sword\" until the printing press burned down in 1949. It also published the \"American Eagle\", which began in 1906 and later became a horticultural newspaper.\n\nThe last remaining follower, Hedwig Michel, joined in 1940. She had learned of the Koreshans in Germany, and fled Nazi persecution. She ceded the main portion of the commune grounds to Florida to form a state park in 1961. The Koreshan State Park (now known as the Koreshan State Historic Site) was opened in 1967. Hedwig Michel continued to live in the building known as the \"Planetary Court\". She died in 1981. She is the only Koreshan buried within the park. Two other Koreshan cemeteries are nearby, one of which lies within a gated community and the other on land owned by the Audubon Society. Partly due to the Koreshan belief in a form of reincarnation, little, if anything, was done to care for these cemeteries. The only permanent grave stones were put in by family members.\n\nThe College of Life Foundation, formerly the Koreshan Unity Foundation, is now the owner/caretaker of the remaining Koreshan land and the extensive archives. After Michel's death, control of the Koreshan Unity Foundation passed to her secretary, Jo Bigelow, and most recently another individual, Charles Dauray. None of those controlling the College of Life Foundation are Koreshan believers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16027139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16027139", "title": "Koteka peoples", "text": "Koteka peoples\n\nThe Koteka of West Papua are seven major ethnicities of the highlands of West Papua with a common culture: the Lani, Mee, Amungme, Moni, Damal, Yali, and Nduga. The Koteka share their identity with other peoples in southern West Papua, the Muyu, Mandobo, and Kamoro.\n\n"}
{"id": "3396035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3396035", "title": "Libyan Arabic", "text": "Libyan Arabic\n\nLibyan Arabic ( \"Lībī\"; also known as Sulaimitian Arabic) is a variety of Arabic spoken in Libya and neighboring countries. It can be divided into two major dialect areas; the eastern centred in Benghazi and Bayda, and the western centred in Tripoli and Misurata. The eastern variety extends beyond the borders to the east into western Egypt. A distinctive southern variety, centered on Sabha, also exists and is more akin to the western variety.\n\nThe transcription of Libyan Arabic into Latin script poses a few problems. First, there is not one standard transcription in use even for Modern Standard Arabic. The use of the International Phonetic Alphabet alone is not sufficient as it obscures some points that can be better understood if several different allophones in Libyan Arabic are transcribed using the same symbol.\n\nOn the other hand, Modern Standard Arabic transcription schemes, while providing good support for representing Arabic sounds that are not normally represented by the Latin script, do not list symbols for other sounds found in Libyan Arabic.\n\nTherefore, to make this article more legible, DIN 31635 is used with a few additions to render phonemes particular to Libyan Arabic. These additions are as follow:\n\nTwo major historical events have shaped the Libyan dialect: the Hilalian-Sulaimi migration, and the migration of Arabs from al-Andalus to the Maghreb following the Reconquista. Libyan Arabic has also been influenced by Italian, and to a lesser extent by Turkish. A significant Berber and Latin (African Romance) substratum also exists.\n\nThe Libyan dialect is used predominantly in spoken communication in Libya. It is also used in Libyan folk poetry, TV dramas and comedies, songs, as well as in cartoons. Libyan Arabic is also used as a lingua franca by non-Arab Libyans whose mother tongue is not Arabic. Libyan Arabic is not normally written, as the written register is normally Modern Standard Arabic, but Libyan Arabic is the main language for cartoonists, and the only suitable language for writing Libyan folk poetry. It is also written in internet forums, emails and in instant messaging applications.\n\nAs is the case with all Bedouin dialects and some Urban dialects, the sound of Modern Standard Arabic is realized as a , but sometimes in words recently borrowed from literary Arabic.\n\nThe following table shows the consonants used in Libyan Arabic. Note: some sounds occur in certain regional varieties while being completely absent in others.\n\nIn western dialects, the interdental fricatives have merged with the corresponding dental stops . Eastern dialects generally still distinguish the two sets, but there is a tendency to replace with .\n\nThe e and o vowels exist only in long form. This can be explained by the fact that these vowels were originally diphthongs in Classical Arabic with replacing and replacing . In some eastern varieties, however, the classical has changed to and to .\n\nLibyan Arabic has at least three clicks, which are used interjectionally, a trait shared with the Bedouin dialects of central Arabia. The first is used for affirmative responses and is generally considered very casual and sometimes associated with low social status. The second is a dental click and used for negative responses and is similar to the English 'tut'. The third is a palatal click used exclusively by women having a meaning close to that of the English word 'alas'.\n\nAlthough Western Libyan Arabic allows for the following syllable structure to occur.\n\nAn anaptyctic is inserted between C and C to ease pronunciation, changing the structure above into the following.\nOn the other hand, Eastern Libyan always has an anaptyctic between C and C in the following manner.\n\nMost of the vocabulary in Libyan Arabic is of Old Arabic origin, usually with a modified interconsonantal vowel structure. Many Italian loanwords also exist, in addition to Turkish, Berber, Spanish, and English words.\n\nThe bulk of vocabulary in Libyan Arabic has the same meaning as in Classical Arabic. However, many words have different but related meanings to those of Classical Arabic. The following table serves to illustrate this relation. The past tense is used in the case of verbs as it is more distinctive and has been traditionally used in Arabic lexicons. Canonically, these verbs are pronounced with the final 'a' (marker of the past tense in Classical Arabic). This notation is preserved the table below. However, the relation between Libyan and Classical Arabic verbs can be better understood if the final 'a' is dropped, in accordance with the elision rule of pre-pause vowels of Classical Arabic.\n\nItalian loanwords exist mainly, but not exclusively, as a technical jargon. For example, machinery parts, workshop tools, electrical supplies, names of fish species, etc.\n\nTurkish words were borrowed during the Ottoman era of Libya. Words of Turkish origin are not as common as Italian ones.\n\nBefore the mass Arabization of what corresponds to modern-day Libya, Berber was the native language for most people. This led to the borrowing of a number of Berber words in Libyan Arabic. Many Berber-speaking people continue to live in Libya today but it is not clear to what extent Berber language continues to influence Libyan Arabic. Some examples of the Berber words in Libyan Arabic are Sardouk, fallous, kusha, garjuta, shlama, karmous, zemmita, bazin, kusksi, zukra and much more words.\n\nLibyan Arabic shares the feature of the first person singular initial n- with the rest of the Maghrebi Arabic dialect continuum to which it belongs. Like other colloquial Arabic dialects, Libyan does not mark grammatical cases by declension. However, it has a rich verbal conjugation structure.\n\nNouns in Libyan Arabic are marked for two grammatical genders, termed masculine and feminine, and three grammatical numbers, singular, dual and plural. Paucal number also exists for some nouns. The diminutive is also still widely used productively (especially by women) to add an endearing or an empathetic connotation to the original noun. As in Classical Arabic, rules for the diminutive formation are based on vowel apophony.\n\nIndefiniteness is not marked. Definite nouns are marked using the Arabic definite article but with somewhat different rules of pronunciation:\n\n\nWhile marking verbs for the dual number has been lost completely in Libyan Arabic as in other Arabic varieties, nouns have a specialized dual number form. However, in Eastern Libyan it tends to be more widespread.\n\nVarious sets of demonstratives exist in Libyan Arabic. Following is a list of some of these. Note that the grouping in columns does not necessarily reflect grouping in reality:\n\nSimilar to Classical Arabic stem formation is an important morphological aspect of Libyan Arabic. However, stems III and X are unproductive whereas stems IV and IX do not exist. The following table shows Classical Arabic stems and their Libyan Arabic counterparts.\n\nLike Classical Arabic and other Arabic dialects, Libyan Arabic distinguishes between two main categories of roots: strong roots (those that do not have vowels or hamza) and weak roots.\n\nStrong roots follow more predictable rules of conjugation, and they can be classified into three categories for Stem I in Western Libyan Arabic:\n\n\nNote that this classification is not always strictly followed. For example, the third person femunine past of the root r-g-d, which is a u-verb, is usually pronounced , instead of . Also, a-verbs and u-verbs follow the same rules in the past conjugation.\n\nConjugation in the Eastern Libyan Arabic is more fine grained, yielding a richer structure.\n\nFuture in Libyan Arabic is formed by prefixing an initial , usually contracted to , to the present tense conjugation. Thus, 'tiktəb' (she writes) becomes 'btiktəb' (she will write). It should not be confused with the indicative marker common in some Eastern Arabic varieties.\n\nLibyan Arabic is highly intelligible to Tunisians and to a good extent to eastern Algerians. However, for most eastern Arabic speakers, including Egyptians, it can be difficult to understand and requires some adaptation.\n\nLibyans usually have to substitute some Libyan Arabic words to make themselves understood to other Arabic speakers, especially Middle Easterners. Substitute words are usually borrowed from Modern Standard or Egyptian Arabic. The following table shows some of the commonly replaced words:\n\nGenerally, all Italian and to some extent Turkish loanwords are substituted.\n\nIt should be noted, however, that if a word is replaced, it does not mean that it is exclusively Libyan. The situation sometimes arises because the speaker mistakenly guesses that the word does not exist in the hearer's dialect. For example, the word zarda (feast, picnic) has close variants in other Maghrebi dialects but is usually substituted in Maghrebi contexts because most speakers do not know that such variants exist.\n\nPidgin Libyan exists in Libya as a contact language used by non-Arabs, mostly Saharan and sub-Saharan Africans living in Libya. Like other pidgins, it has a simplified structure and limited expressive power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47919570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47919570", "title": "List of Creus de Sant Jordi (Catalonia)", "text": "List of Creus de Sant Jordi (Catalonia)\n\nList of people and institutions rewarded with the Creu de Sant Jordi Award, the second-highest civil distinction awarded in Catalonia (Spain).\n\n (1981, although granted in early 1982)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Only there was one rewarded: Ernest Dethorey i Camps.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n The delivery of the Creu de Sant Jordi Award 2018 were suspended due to the application of article 155 of the Spanish Constitution and the lack of government of the Generalitat. On May 12 of the same year, the government of the exile of Carles Puigdemont proposed the following candidates to receive the Sant Jordi cross 2018. The awards were ratified in July.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48568001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48568001", "title": "List of free and open-source software organizations", "text": "List of free and open-source software organizations\n\nThe following are notable organizations devoted to the advocacy, legal aid, financial aid, technical aid, governance, etc. of free and open-source software (FOSS) as a whole, or of one or more specific FOSS projects. For projects that have their own foundation or are part of an umbrella organization, the primary goal is often to provide a mechanism for funding development of the software.\n\nFor the most part, these organizations are structured as nonprofit/charity organizations.\n\nThis list does not include companies that aim to make money from free and open-source software.\n\n\n\n\nThe following organizations host, and provide other services, for a variety of different open-source projects.\n\n\nThe following organizations host open-source projects that relate to a specific technical area.\n\n\nA large number of single-project organizations (often called \"foundations\") exist; in most cases, their primary purpose is to provide a mechanism to bring funds from the software's users, including both individuals and companies, to its developers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2229649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2229649", "title": "Marine Day", "text": "Marine Day\n\n, also known as \"Ocean Day\" or \"Sea Day\", is a Japanese national holiday celebrated on the third Monday in July. The purpose of the holiday is to give thanks to the ocean's bounty and to consider the importance of the ocean to Japan as an island nation.\n\nMany people take advantage of the holiday and summer weather to take a beach trip. Other ocean-related festivities are observed as well. The date roughly coincides with the end of tsuyu (rainy season) in much of the Japan mainland.\n\nThe day was known as until 1996. Communications Minister Shozo Murata designated the day in 1941 to commemorate the Meiji Emperor and his 1876 voyage in the Meiji Maru, an iron steamship constructed in Scotland in 1874. The voyage included a trip around the Tōhoku region, embarking on a lighthouse boat in Aomori, and a brief stop in Hakodate before returning to Yokohama on July 20 of that year. However, it was not designated a national holiday until 1995, when it became the first holiday in the summer months.\n\nFirst observed on July 20, 1996, the Happy Monday System legislation moved the date to the third Monday of July beginning in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "3859512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3859512", "title": "Model Penal Code", "text": "Model Penal Code\n\nThe Model Penal Code (MPC) is a text designed to stimulate and assist U.S. state legislatures to update and standardize the penal law of the United States of America. The MPC was a project of the American Law Institute (ALI), and was published in 1962 after a ten-year drafting period. The chief reporter on the project was Herbert Wechsler, and contributors included Sanford Kadish and numerous other noted criminal law scholars, prosecutors, and defense lawyers. \n\nThe ALI performed an examination of the penal system in the U.S. and the prohibitions, sanctions, excuses, and authority used throughout in order to arrive at a cohesive synthesis to the extent possible, and the best rules for the penal system in the United States. Primary responsibility for criminal law lies with the individual states, which over the years led to great inconsistency among the various state penal codes. The MPC was meant to be a comprehensive criminal code that would allow for similar laws to be passed in different jurisdictions.\n\nThe MPC itself is not legally-binding law, but since its publication in 1962 more than half of all U.S. states have enacted criminal codes that borrow heavily from it. It has greatly influenced criminal courts even in states that have not directly drawn from it, and judges increasingly use the MPC as a source of the doctrines and principles underlying criminal liability.\n\nUnder the MPC, crimes are defined in terms of a set of \"elements of the offense,\" each of which must be proven to the finder of fact beyond a reasonable doubt. There are three types of elements:\n\nThe elements are those facts that:\n\n\nAll but the last two categories are \"material\" elements, and the prosecution must prove that the defendant had the required kind of culpability with respect to that element.\n\nOne of the major innovations of the MPC is its use of standardized \"mens rea\" terms (criminal mind, or in MPC terms, culpability) to determine levels of mental states, just as homicide is considered more severe if done intentionally rather than accidentally. These terms are (in descending order) \"purposely\", \"knowingly,\" \"recklessly\", and \"negligently\", with a fifth state of \"strict liability\", which is highly disfavored. Each material element of every crime has an associated culpability state that the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\n\nIf an offense requires a specific kind of culpability, then any more severe culpability will suffice. Thus if an offense is defined in the form, \"It is illegal to \"knowingly\" do X,\" then it is illegal to do X knowingly or purposely (a more severe state), but not to do so recklessly or negligently (the two less severe states). Strict liability means that it is illegal to do something, regardless of one's mental state. If a statute provides only a single kind of culpability for a crime, that kind of culpability is assumed to apply to all elements. If no culpability is stated by statute, a minimum of recklessness is assumed to be required. The MPC declines to use the common terms \"intentional\" or \"willful\" in its specification of crimes, in part because of the complex interpretive history of these terms. However, it defines that any (non-MPC) statute in the jurisdiction's criminal code that uses the term \"intentionally\" shall mean \"purposely,\" and any use of \"willfully\" shall mean \"with knowledge.\" If a law makes an actor absolutely liable for an offense, MPC sections 2.05 and 1.04 state that the actor can only be guilty of what the MPC calls violations (essentially meaning civil infractions), which only carry fines or other monetary penalties, and no jail time.\n\nAnother important feature is that under the MPC, any action not explicitly outlawed is legal. This concept follows the saying, \"That which is not forbidden is allowed\" as opposed to \"That which is not allowed is forbidden.\" Legal scholars contrast the MPC's limits with laws passed by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, which allowed people to be punished for acts not specifically outlawed but similar to acts that were. The MPC provision has a prospective effect in that it applies to those acts which may be committed in the future. This is not the same as a retrospective effect of past acts which are protected by the rule against ex post facto laws.\n\nUnder the MPC, ignorance of criminal law is not considered a valid defense, unless the legislature intended on making the mistake of law a defense, the law is unknown to the actor and had not been published, or the actor is acting as a result of some official statement about the law. See sections 2.02(9) and 2.04.\n\nCertain parts of the MPC contain multiple options, inviting states to choose one. A particularly controversial topic was the proper place of the death penalty in the MPC. However, the MPC explicitly states that the \"[American Law] Institute took no position on the desirability of the death penalty.\" Note that no state is obliged to adopt any specific part of the MPC; see below.\n\nAdvocates of the MPC stress that the law must be clearly defined to prevent arbitrary enforcement, or a chilling effect on a population that does not know what actions are punishable. This is known as the legality principle. However, critics say that the assumption that there are no possible legal systems between the extremes of \"forbidden\" and \"allowed\" is the central weakness of the MPC. British law, for example, assumes that a jury can decide what is \"reasonable\" both in the context of British law and social expectations as well as the specific accusation they are being asked to judge. Behavior may thus be deemed unlawful by a jury in cases where the MPC would require legislative change to produce a conviction.\n\nThe MPC is not law in any jurisdiction of the United States; however, it served and continues to serve as a basis for the replacement of existing criminal codes in over two-thirds of the states. Many states adopted portions of the MPC, but only states such as New Jersey, New York, and Oregon have enacted almost all of the provisions. Idaho adopted the model penal code in its entirety in 1971, but the legislature repealed this action two months after it came into effect in 1972.\n\nThe repeal of the MPC in Idaho came about after intense rejection of the new codification due to the lack of laws regulating morality, areas of the MPC that affected important political groups in the state, and also prosecutors and police who were critical of some areas of the new MPC-based code. The state bar association, judiciary committees in the legislature, and the Supreme Court of Idaho defended the new MPC-based code. Chief in the objections were the omission of sodomy, adultery and fornication as crimes, as well as objection by gun owners of the new stricter gun control law.\n\nOn rare occasions, the courts will turn to the MPC for its commentary on the law and use it to seek guidance in interpreting non-code criminal statutes. It is also used frequently as a tool for comparison.\n\n\"Section 230.3 Abortion\" (Tentative draft 1959, Official draft 1962) of the MPC was used as a model for abortion law reform legislation enacted in 13 states from 1967 to 1972. It is included as Appendix B of Justice Blackmun's opinion in the January 22, 1973 \"Doe v. Bolton\" decision of the United States Supreme Court (\"Roe v. Wade\"'s lesser-known companion case).\n\nIn October 2009, the ALI voted to disavow the framework for capital punishment that it had included in the MPC, \"in light of the current intractable institutional and structural obstacles to ensuring a minimally adequate system for administering capital punishment.\" A study commissioned by the institute had said that experience had proved that the goal of individualized decisions about who should be executed and the goal of systemic fairness for minorities and others could not be reconciled.\n\n"}
{"id": "28003447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28003447", "title": "Mujavir", "text": "Mujavir\n\nThe Mujavir are a Muslim community found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They are also known as Shaikh Hashemi.\n\nThe word mujavir literally means caretakers, and the Mujavir are the caretakers of the shrine of the famous Sufi, Saiyid Salar Masood in Bahraich. They claim that their ancestors came from Iraq, and were appointed custodians of the shrine. The Mujavir speak Urdu among themselves and Hindi with outsiders.\n\nTheir traditional occupation as the custodians of the shrine is now limited to few members of the community. Most Mujavir are now employed as carpenters, rickshaw pullers and daily wage labourers. They reside in their own quarters in the city of Bahraich. The Mujavir are endogamous, and only marry within the community. There are, however, some cases of intermarriage with other Shaikh groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "568011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568011", "title": "North Korean abductions of South Koreans", "text": "North Korean abductions of South Koreans\n\nAn estimated 84,532 South Koreans were taken to North Korea during the Korean War. In addition, South Korean statistics claim that, since the Korean Armistice Agreement in 1953, about 3,800 people have been abducted by North Korea (the vast majority in the late 1970s), 489 of whom were still being held in 2006.\n\nSouth Korean abductees by North Korea are categorized into two groups, wartime abductees and postwar abductees.\n\nKoreans from the south who were kidnapped to the north against their wishes during the 1950–53 Korean War and died there or are still being detained in North Korea are called wartime abductees or Korean War abductees. Most of them were already educated or skilled, such as politicians, government officials, scholars, educators, doctors, judicial officials, journalists, or businessmen. According to testimonies by remaining family members, most abductions were carried out by North Korean soldiers who had specific names and identification in hand when they showed up at people's homes. This is an indication that the abductions were carried out intentionally and in an organized manner.\n\nSouth Koreans who were kidnapped by North Korean agents in the South Korean territory or foreign countries after the armistice was signed in 1953 are known as postwar abductees. Most of them were captured while fishing near the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), but some were abducted by North Korean agents in South Korea. North Korea continued to abduct South Koreans into the 2000s, as is shown by the cases of reverend, Kim Dongsik (), who was abducted on January 16, 2000, and Jin Gyeong-suk (), a North Korean defector to South Korea who was abducted on August 8, 2004, when she had returned to the China-North Korea border region using her South Korean passport.\n\nDuring wartime, North Korea kidnapped South Koreans to increase its human capacity for rehabilitation after the war. It recruited intelligentsia who were exhausted in North Korea and kidnapped those needed for postwar rehabilitation, technical specialists, and laborers. There was an intention to drain the intelligentsia of South Korean society, exacerbate societal confusion, and promote communization of South Korea by making postwar rehabilitation difficult due to the shortage of technical specialists and youth. They also had the intention to guise the abductions as voluntary entry for the advancement of their political system.\n\nIn his \"Complete Works, Volume Ⅳ\", dated July 31, 1946, North Korean leader Kim Il-sung wrote: \"In regards to bringing Southern Chosun's intelligentsia, not only do we need to search out all Northern Chosun's intelligentsia in order to solve the issue of a shortage of intelligentsia, but we also have to bring Southern Chosun's intelligentsia.\"\n\nIn the case of post war abductees, Yoichi Shimada, a Fukui University professor in Japan, states that North Korea appeared to abduct foreign citizens to:\n\nThese six patterns are not mutually exclusive. Especially numbers 2, 3, and 4 derive from Kim Jong-il's secret order of 1976 to use foreign nationals more systematically and thereby improve the quality of North Korean spy activities, contributing to his \"localization of spy education.\"\n\nFurther, better-educated people could be employed by the institutions responsible for waging propaganda campaigns against the South in, say, their broadcast facilities.\n\nNorth Korea has shown different positions on the abduction issue.\n\nIn the case of Japanese abduction, on September 17, 2002, the North Korean government officially admitted the kidnapping of 13 Japanese citizens, at a meeting between North Korean leader Kim Jong-il and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.\n\nAs for the South Korean abduction issue, North Korea has consistently claimed that there were no South Korean abductees in North Korea. After the Armistice in 1953, North Korea refused the release of South Korean wartime abductees despite a provision allowing civilian abductees to return home in Article III of the Korean War Armistice Agreement, a document signed by representatives from the United States, North Korea and China. Instead, they only returned 19 foreigners to the South.\n\nIn regards to the post war abductees, North Korea insists that the South Koreans defected to North Korea, and remain there of their own free will, but refuses to allow South Korean relatives to communicate with them. Despite the testimonies of former abductees who have escaped from the North on their own, North Korea has held fast to the existing position: \"There are no South Korean abductees and we cannot confirm their existence.\" The former husband of Japanese abductee Megumi Yokota, himself a suspected abductee from the South, was allowed to meet his South Korean mother in 2006, but Yokota's parents called the meeting a publicity stunt by North Korea, meant to isolate his daughter from her Japanese family, as the man has now remarried a native North Korean and has a son with her.\n\nThe Seoul government has clarified that resolving the Korean War POW and abductee issue is not only part of the Korean government's basic responsibility for protecting its citizens and one of the highest priorities. But despite the South Korean government's official urging for the North Korean government to deal with the abduction issue, there has no substantial results so far. Since the inter-Korean Summit held in 2000, the South and the North dealt with the abduction issue at the talks; the second South–North Summit, inter-Korean Prime Minister talk, and rounds of ministerial-level or inter-Korean Red Cross talks.\n\n\nBecause North Korea has been denying the existence of abductees and POWs on its territory, since November 2000, the South Korean government has been trying to resolve the issue through a more realistic approach of including the abductees and POWs in the category of separated families. By doing so, families of POWs or abductees also could participate in the normal reunion events that were organized for families separated by the war.\nAs a result of these efforts, a total of 38 families of abductees and POWs were able to meet their family members in North Korea, and the fates of 88 people were confirmed.\n\nIn contrast with the official policies, the 2014 United Nations \"Report of the commission of inquiry on human rights in the DPRK\" states that the South Korean government has not been willing to raise the issue with North Korea, thinking of the abductions in political rather than humanitarian terms. Further, the report says that \"Well over 200,000 persons who were taken from other countries to the DPRK may have potentially become victims of enforced disappearance, as defined in the Declaration for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance\" and \"Most postwar abductee family members that have applied to attend a separated family reunion have received notification at the life status verification stage of the process, that their loved one has since deceased or their life status cannot be verified. Given the high level of surveillance on those of South Korean origin, and the nature of DPRK monitoring in society in general, from the Inmin-wiwon-oei (regional level) down to the Inminban (Neighbourhood Watch), the Commission finds it difficult to believe that life status verification is not possible in the DPRK.\"\n\nSeparately from talks with North Korea, the South Korean government enacted on April 2, 2007, the \"Law for the Victims of Abduction to the North in the Postwar Years (or, the law concerning the assistance and compensation for the abducted persons since the Korean War Armistice Agreement)\". Based on this law, the abducted persons, upon return to South Korea, will be entitled to receive assistance and the returning person himself or herself and their family members will be entitled to compensation for the human rights infringements sustained during the period. By this law, on October 16, 2007, the South Korean government formed the \"Committee for the Compensation of the Victims of Abduction to the North.\"\n\nOwing to the special situation of wartime, the exact number of Korean War abductees is difficult to determine. There are considerable differences in the numbers cited in various published documents and statistics. Overall range of the numbers is from 2,438 to 84,532. When the Korean National Red Cross set a special re-registration period to compile a list of missing people or the so-called \"displaced people\" in 1956, a total of 7,031 people registered. On February 26, 1957, the South delivered the list of 7,034 people to the North through the International Federation of Red Cross (IFRC). But according to the survey of \"Korean War Abductees’ Family Union\" in March 2002, its number amounts to 94,700.\n\nAfter the Korean War or during the Cold War period, a total of 3,795 people have been abducted and taken to North Korea. Subsequently, through the South Korean government's protests and various efforts via the Korean National Red Cross, 3,309 people have returned to South Korea. And six persons have recently escaped from the North and returned to the South Korea on their own. A total of 480 South Korean abductees remain in North Korea against their will (as of December 2007).\nBelow chart shows status of abducted persons by year.\n\nOn May 28, 1955, a South Korean fishing boat, the \"Daesung-ho\", with a crew of ten fishermen, was hijacked by North Korean authorities. Since then, North Korean agents have hijacked numerous South Korean ships and kidnapped the seamen and fishermen aboard the vessels. In total, 3,696 fishermen and 120-plus fishing boats were seized by North Korea.\n\nAfter strong protests from South Korean government, North Korea has repatriated 3,262 people. An additional six people have recently returned home to South Korea on their own. But a total of 427 fishermen are still held in North Korea.\n\nFive South Korean high school students disappeared in 1977 and 1978. They had been regarded as missing persons. But in the late 1990s, through the testimonies of North Korean spies in South Korea, it was discovered that they were working in North Korea as instructors, teaching the basics of South Korean lifestyle to would-be undercover Northern operatives. It has been known that among them was the husband of Japanese abductee Yokota Megumi, Kim Young-nam.\n\nOn June 5, 1970, North Korean patrol boats seized a South Korean broadcast vessel with 20 crew on board off the west coast near the military demarcation line. The vessel was standing on guard for South Korean fishing boats.\n\nIn December 1969, North Korean agents hijacked a South Korean airliner YS-11 to Wonsan en route from Kangnung to Seoul with 51 persons aboard; in February 1970, 39 of the crew and passengers were released. The remaining 11 were still detained in North Korea. Eventually, two stewardesses became announcers of the North Korean propaganda broadcasts that target South Korean audiences.\n\nIn February 1978, South Korean actress Choi Eun-hee and her film director husband Shin Sang-ok were kidnapped in Hong Kong and taken to Pyongyang. They were abducted on the orders of Kim Jong-il, the son of North Korean President Kim Il-sung, who wanted to use them to improve the North Korean film industry. Shin attempted to escape and spent five years in a re-education camp, before being reunited with his wife. While living in North Korea, Shin made the monster movie \"Pulgasari\". In April 1984, South Korean government officials stated that the kidnappees were working in North Korea producing propaganda films that glorified Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il. The couple escaped to the United States in 1986 while on a filming assignment in Vienna.\n\nIn the 1990s most abductions of this sort took place in China, and their victims were political activists, missionaries, and real or suspected South Korean spies. All these abductions occurred in the Chinese North-East, near the borders of North Korea.\n\nNorth Korean abductions have not been limited to northeast Asia and many documented abductees have been kidnapped while abroad, making the issue of serious concern to the international community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22108181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22108181", "title": "Polygamy in Libya", "text": "Polygamy in Libya\n\nPolygamous unions are legal in Libya. Previously, under the rule of Muammar Gaddafi, a man needed to prove that he was capable of providing for the wives with reasons and required the consent of the first wife. This changed in February 2013, however, when the Constitutional Court overturned the previous law.\n\nDepending on pre-2011 censuses, percent of polygamists in Libya decreased from 3.56% in 1995, to 2.57% in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "9731945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9731945", "title": "Probability matching", "text": "Probability matching\n\nProbability matching is a decision strategy in which predictions of class membership are proportional to the class base rates. Thus, if in the training set positive examples are observed 60% of the time, and negative examples are observed 40% of the time, then the observer using a \"probability-matching\" strategy will predict (for unlabeled examples) a class label of \"positive\" on 60% of instances, and a class label of \"negative\" on 40% of instances. \n\nThe optimal Bayesian decision strategy (to maximize the number of correct predictions, see ) in such a case is to always predict \"positive\" (i.e., predict the majority category in the absence of other information), which has 60% chance of winning rather than matching which has 52% of winning (where \"p\" is the probability of positive realization, the result of matching would be formula_1, here formula_2). The probability-matching strategy is of psychological interest because it is frequently employed by human subjects in decision and classification studies (where it may be related to Thompson sampling).\n\n"}
{"id": "14721701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14721701", "title": "QatarDebate", "text": "QatarDebate\n\nQatarDebate, a member of Qatar Foundation and the National Debating Organisation for Qatar, is a civic engagement initiative which aims to develop and support the standard of open discussion and debate among students and youth in Qatar and the broader Arab world.\n\nQatarDebate was established in 2008 under the direction of Moza bint Nasser, chairperson of Qatar Foundation, with support from the team behind the Doha Debates.\n\nQatarDebate's aim is to \"shape the global citizens of today and the intellectual leaders of tomorrow in Qatar and the region\" through the introduction of a variety of English and Arabic debate programs.\n\nThe center selected and helped coach members of the Qatar National Debate Team for the 2008 and 2009 editions of the World Schools Debating Championships. In both editions, the team won four out of their eight debates. The team equaled Lithuania's record in the 2008 championships for the number of debates won by a team in its inaugural appearance.\n\nIn April 2009, two national forums were simultaneously organized by QatarDebate: the Qatar National Schools Debating Championship and Qatar National Universities Debating Championships.\n\nQatarDebate was awarded the rights to host the 2010 World Schools Debating Championships, becoming the first Arab-based society to do so. The event was launched on 9 February 2010 and featured teams from 57 countries.\n\nA biennial event known as the International Universities Arabic Debating Championship is held under the auspices of QatarDebate. The first edition was held in 2011, followed by two more editions in 2013 and 2015. The championship features students from international universities who debate predetermined topics. The 2015 edition, which featured teams from 33 countries, was the first to include universities from non-Arabic countries.\n\nQatarDebate was involved in the filming of a documentary film on the first Qatar National Schools Debating Team (2008) entitled “Team Qatar”, directed by Liz Mermin, which won an award at the 2009 Doha Tribeca Film Festival. The center also produced an instructional film on debating for use by members of the society, entitled “QatarDebate Introduction to Debating”.\n\nIn 2013, the center released a dictionary with Arabic and English debate terminology. Along with definitions of each term, the book highlights their application in debates by providing examples of their use.\n\nOther publications released by the center include Al Murshed Book and the Introduction to the Art of Debating Book.\n\n"}
{"id": "35348099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35348099", "title": "Residential Drug Abuse Program", "text": "Residential Drug Abuse Program\n\nThe Residential Drug Abuse Program (RDAP) is an intensive nine-month, 500-hour substance abuse rehabilitation program administered by the United States Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP), offered to federal prisoners who qualify and voluntarily elect to enroll. Upon successful completion of the program, prisoners who meet the necessary criteria are eligible for up to a 12-month reduction of their sentence and possibly six months in a halfway house depending on how many months they have left on their sentence. Due to the high demand and insufficient spots, inmates are placed on a waiting list typically when they have 12 months or less time left on their sentence and are accepted when there is an opening. This is part of the reason why inmates receive different amounts of time off their sentences. For example, if an inmate has waited for a slot until he has 12 months left and the program is six months long, then he only receives six months off his sentence and so forth. Michael Vick was rumored to have entered the program while serving out his sentence at the United States Penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kansas. \n\nViolent offenses normally disqualify defendants from the early release portion of the program. Felony or misdemeanor convictions for homicide, forcible rape, robbery, aggravated assault, and child sexual abuses all render a prisoner ineligible to participate.Bad behavior and regular rule breaking will definitely lead to expulsion from the Residential Drug Abuse Program \n\nThe program is open to inmates with a documented history of substance abuse in the 12-month period prior to arrest for the sentence they are currently serving. It is authorized in 18 U.S.C. § 3621. RDAP is only available to inmates in federal prisons; state prisoners are not eligible to participate. \n\nResearch commissioned by the BOP revealed lower rates of recidivism and a higher quality of life upon returning to civilian life for offenders who successfully complete the program.\n\nWall Street Prison Consultants\n"}
{"id": "51078237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51078237", "title": "Rukun Warga", "text": "Rukun Warga\n\nRukun Warga (RW) is the division of regions in Indonesia under the Village or \"Kelurahan\" (or under: \"Dusun\" or village). Rukun Warga not including the division of administration, and the formation of local communities is through consultation in the framework of community service set by the village or villages. RW is further divided into \"Rukun Tetangga\" (RT).\nMost information about governance and functioning of the RW and RT is in Indonesian.\nSome non-Indonesian anthropologists have written about the functions and issues of the RW.\n"}
{"id": "3495123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3495123", "title": "Sindhi Rajput", "text": "Sindhi Rajput\n\nSindhi Rajputs () are Sindhi people belonging to the Rajput community and living in Sindh, Pakistan.\nThe Sindh-Sipahi originally belonged to the family of Chandravanshi Rajputs. They are said to have converted to Islam at the time of the conquest of Sindh by the Arabs, around the 8th century CE. The Sindhi Sipahi form a large part of the Muslim Rajputs population of Marwar and Mewar. According to their traditions, they were Chauhan and Bhati Rajputs who converted to Islam in the Middle Ages. They are concentrated in Mallani, Sheo, Sanchor in Marwar and in Udaipur.\n\nThey are sub-divided into various tribes, such as the Bhatti, Sodha, Tonwar and Rathore, and further divided into firkas or sub-clans. Their main firkas are the Samma, Panwar, Gajju, Bhayo, Panno, Sithar, and Mahar. The Samma clan is called so after the name of its founder and traces its pedigree to Bhati Rajputs. The Saand and Gajju were originally Sodha; Bhayo and Panno are said to be descended from Tonwar, and Sithar are Rathore. They have a common origin with the Sindhi Rajput tribes of Pakistan.\n\nThe major Sindhi Rajput clans include:\n\n"}
{"id": "35068448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35068448", "title": "South Korean illegal surveillance incident", "text": "South Korean illegal surveillance incident\n\nThe South Korean illegal surveillance incident (, or \"illegal civilian surveillance incident\") was alleged to have occurred in 2010 when the Civil Service Ethics Division (공직윤리지원관실) under the Prime Minister's Office of South Korea inspected a civilian, a political action that is illegal under the South Korean conventions. The incident re-emerged in early 2012 as the election approached.\n\nThe surveillance scandal originally developed as an investigation of a South Korean civilian named Kim Jong-ik (), a bank worker who posted in his blog a video clip \"Jwiko\" () that lampooned President Lee Myung-bak as a rat in a fashion from the movie, \"Sicko\". This has generated multiple controversies such as concerns of Internet censorship and political misconducts. In a March 2012 interview of Kim Jong-ik, he said has been \"emotionally scarred\" and was forced to resign his position at his company and move to Japan. He had lost his means to support his family and accumulated debt. Kim did not know why he himself was singled out as a target, as many others had posted the same video. He expressed deep concerns towards the government of this happening again.\n\nIn 2012, The Supreme Prosecutors' Office of the Republic of Korea (SPO) has decided to reopen the case based on testimonies of the bureau insider, Jang Jin-su (장진수). A special team of prosecutors was formed to investigate the surveillance incident and a potential cover up.\n\nThe Supreme Prosecutors' Office of the Republic of Korea raided the Prime Minister's Office for the first time in its history on July 9, 2010. The SPO eventually discovered an alleged concealment of evidences. Former Presidential Secretary for Employment and Labor Relations, Lee Young-ho (이영호), was banned from leaving the country for his involvement in incident.\n\nFormer Presidential Secretary Lee Young-ho and former Presidential Labor Advisor Choi Jong-seok were arrested on April 3, 2012 for allegedly ordering Jang Jin-su to destroy the information related to the surveillance. On April 4, 2012, Jang Jin-su revealed pictures of 50 million won he claims he received from Rhyu Chung-ryeol, a former Prime Minister's Office official, as a bribe to destroy the data, through the independent South Korean news source, OhMyNews.\n\nAs the scandal was revisited during the 2012 Korea elections, debate has expanded over into conducts by both the current and previous regimes. Some have alleged that surveillance was done during the previous regime, as well as the current.\n\nMunhwa Broadcasting Corporation, a notable media outlet, claimed to expose the incident in its journalist-oriented investigative program, PD Notebook, on June 29, 2010.\n\nThe KBS-affiliated journalists who are on strike claimed to have obtained 2,619 surveillance-related cases of reports from the Lee Myung-bak government. However, it was later reported that over 80% of the alleged illegal surveillance records were actually created during the previous Roh Moo-hyun regime. Of the 2,619 documents, only 120 were considered actual reports, and 2 reports were of civilians. Two former executives of National Intelligence Service, and denied the claims. The KBS union immediately posted a tweet calling the explanation a lie, but soon changed stance and apologized for the inaccurate information. The KBS journalists who are on strike later refuted the claim. They claimed that the total of cases including the duplicated entities are 2,837; total of cases during the Roh administration are 2,356 and written by police forces who follow \"normal procedures\" in which only 10 cases are involved with civilians.\n\nThe Dailian criticised the KBS union for creating a large fabrications of facts used for political purposes, especially during election season.\n\nThe main opposition Democratic United Party demanded a full reinvestigation of the incident. The Korea Times and The New York Times compared the scandal to the American Watergate scandal, referring to it as the \"Watergate of Korea\". The conservative political activist and a current Saenuri Party political reformer, Lee Sang-don, made a remark during a radio interview on 5 April 2012:\nThe illegal surveillance case is exactly the same as the Watergate scandal. [U.S. President Richard] Nixon didn’t instruct the illegal spying but stepped down from presidency for covering up the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3963572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963572", "title": "Tarok people", "text": "Tarok people\n\nTarok is an agrarian society in the hills and on the plains southeast of Plateau State, Nigeria.\n\nThe Tarok people call themselves oTárók, their language iTárók and their land ìTàrók. They are found principally in Langtang-North, Langtang-South, Wase, Mikang and Kanke Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Plateau State in Central Nigeria. Their main town of Langtang is located about 186 kilometres south-east of Jos, the state capital. They are also found in large numbers in Shendam, Qua'an-Pan, Kanam, Pankshin LGAs and some part of Tafawa Balewa LGA of Bauchi state the Sur (Tapshin). Scattered in Nasarawa and Taraba states are Tarok farming communities. The people have been described to some extent in anthropological and ethnographical works by Fitzpatrick (1910), Roger Blench, Lamle (1995), Famwang and Longtau (1997). The oTárók is an amalgamation of various peoples who now form a more or less ‘homogeneous’ group. The constituents were of Pe, Ngas, Jukun, Boghom, Tel ( Montol ) and probably Tal origins, while others still remain obscure or unknown. The culture at a micro level portrays this admixture of peoples of the Tarok nation. The focus here is a description of their language.\n\nIn the literature, other names have been used for Tarok as Appa, Yergam and its variants of Yergum and Yergem. The name Tarok itself has been wrongly spelt by some as Taroh. The name Appa on the other hand is used by the Jukun to refer to oTarok as a friendship term. These fresh insights are pointing to a conclusion that Tarok was a nickname given to the Tal/Ngas immigrants. The name of the original group is lost and has been replaced by the nickname. The term Pe-Tarok refers to the people who first spoke the original form of the language called Tarok today the mismatch notwithstanding. The origins of the peoples may be a knotty topic, but it is clear that Proto-Tarok is the parent of the language which is known as Tarok today (whatever might have been their original name).\n\nLongtau described Tarok as one of the Benue–Congo languages which is almost completely submerged in a sea of Chadic languages. These languages include Ngas, Tel, Boghom, Hausa / Fulfulde and Yiwom. Its non-Chadic neighbours are Pe, Jukun-Wase and Yangkam. Tarok has spread considerably in the twentieth century and it now borders Wapan in the south-east. The Chadic languages belong to a different language family called Afroasiatic. Longtau explained that Tarok had settled in their present abode long before the eastern and southward movements of Boghom and Ngas respectively.\n\nNankap Elias Lamle (2001) an anthropologist lecturing at the University of Jos in Nigeria stated that in the early twentieth century people from other ethnic groups such as Tal, Ngas, Jukun, Tel (Montol/Dwal) and Yiwom (Gerkawa) migrated and settled together with the initial Timwat and Funyallang clans. People from these ethnic groups came as migrants labour workers. The Timwat and Funyallang people gave them land to settle in Tarokland after they have served the former. Colonialism and Christianity came into Tarokland by 1904 (Lamle 1995). The initial inhabitants could not trust the missionaries and colonialists as such did not encourage their people to join them. with the introduction of modernism the later migrants to Tarokland used their connections to the missionaries and colonialists to acquire western education and join the army. Today these latter migrants are at the helm of affairs in Nigeria as such tries to use their influence to change history ( cf. Lamle 2005).\n\nFurthermore, Lamle asserted that the framework of Tarok migration supports the assertion above and is based on the fact that the Tarok language is part of the Benue–Congo language family. However, other peoples of the Chadic language family, such as the Ngas, Boghom, Tel (Montol) and Yiwom, shifted to the Benue–Congo family and are given full status as Tarok (Lamle 1998). Also the Jukun, who speak languages of the Benue–Congo family, joined the Tarok. What is called the Tarok people are actually a mixture of many ethno-linguistic groups (Lamle 2008).\n\nThe Tarok people have an ancestral cult which retains considerable prestige and importance, despite major inroads of Christianity into the area. The ancestors, orìm, are represented by initiated males and post-menopausal women. Cult activities take place in sacred groves outside almost all Tarok settlements. Orìm are mostly heard, but emerge as masked figures under some circumstances, especially for the disciplining of ‘stubborn’ women and for making prophecies. Orìm figures speak through voice disguisers in a language dotted with code words although framed in normal Tarok syntax and their utterances are interpreted by unmasked figures.\n\nEach Tarok settlement of any size has a sacred grove outside it, which is conserved as the place of the orim or ancestors. The singular form, ùrìm, is applied to a dead person or an ancestor, while orìm refers to the collective ancestors and the cult itself. Men above a certain age are allowed to enter the grove and engage with the ancestors. These inhabit the land of the dead and are thus in contact with all those who have died, including young people and children who were not admitted to the orìm. On certain nights when the ‘orìm are out’, women and children must stay in their houses. Orim can also be seen ‘dressed’, i.e. appearing as masquerades, when they engage with women through an interpreter. Surprisingly, most Tarok are Christian and Langtang hosts some large churches, but the association of the orìm with power ensures that these two systems continue to coexist. Indeed, it is said that the orìm take care to visit the houses of the retired generals and other influential figures at night to cement the bonds between two very different types of power. Orìm society is graded, in the sense that there are members who are not fully initiated and so cannot be let into the inner secrets of the society. Some of the orìm vocabulary is therefore for internal concealment, that is, there are code-words among the elder members to conceal the meaning of what is being said from junior members.\n\nThe main function of the orim from the external point of view is to maintain order, both spiritual and actual, within the society but also to prepare for warfare and other collective action. In practice, maintaining order seems to be about disciplining women, who are forced to cook food as a punishment for being lazy or ‘stubborn’. This category of orìm is called orìm aga., literally ‘masquerade that gives trouble’ and its speciality is to fine women. There is a special season, aga. ‘time of trouble’, for meting out fines to offenders. The orìm are also in contact with the dead and it is believed that the spirits of dead children require to be fed; hence they will request special meals from the mother of such children. Orìm also have a marriage-broking function; for example, young women tell the orìm the name of the young man they would like to marry, and they find ways of passing on the message.\n\nThe official website of the Tarok People was recently created and launched in December, 27th 2013.\nIt was created for the purpose of promoting their culture and tradition, which will serve as a rich resource for the up-coming generation. It also serves as a means for interaction between its members and as a voice to air out their ideas. It is aimed at promoting unity through various ways among the Taroks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTarok Related Publications by Selbut Longtau, and together with others, October 2013\n\nhttp://dailynews.gm/africa/gambia/article/the-gambia-government-loss-against-the-killing-of-deyda-hydara\n\n"}
{"id": "16708659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16708659", "title": "The British Environment and Media Awards", "text": "The British Environment and Media Awards\n\nThe British Environment and Media Awards, or BEMAs, were created by Media Natura, and are awarded by the World Wide Fund for Nature. The awards are open to any professional article, programme, website or campaign, written, produced or undertaken in the UK. Past hosts have included Angus Deayton, and Michael Fish\n\nIn 2007, the year the awards became carbon neutral, winners included:\n\nSome of the award's sponsors, which include the RSPB, have attracted some condemnation, such as Surfers Against Sewage protest at the 2007 awards where they handed Northumbrian Water a gold toilet-brush for \"showing a disregard to the health of the marine environment\". Northumbrian Water however insist they are \"the leading environmental company in the North East\", having \"invested some £2 billion on environmental and service improvements since 1990\".\n\n\n (dead links)\n"}
{"id": "383455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383455", "title": "The Devil in Miss Jones", "text": "The Devil in Miss Jones\n\nThe Devil in Miss Jones is a 1973 pornographic film, written, directed and produced by Gerard Damiano and starring Georgina Spelvin and Harry Reems. It is widely regarded as a classic adult film, released during the Golden Age of Porn (1969–1984). After his 1972 success with \"Deep Throat\", Damiano shot the film in a house on Park Drive South in the town of Harrison, New York. Along with \"Deep Throat\" and \"Behind the Green Door\", the film is associated with a time in American culture known as \"porno chic\", in which adult erotic films were just beginning to be widely released, publicly discussed by celebrities (like Johnny Carson and Bob Hope) and taken seriously by film critics (like Roger Ebert). \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" went on to spawn numerous remakes and sequels.\n\nAs with many films of the Golden Age of Porn, the copyright status of \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" is unresolved. VCX claims a copyright; rival distributor Arrow Productions distributed unauthorized copies of the film for a time before 2009, when (as part of a mutual truce between the companies) Arrow agreed to accept VCX's copyright claim in exchange for not challenging Arrow's copyright claim on \"Deep Throat\".\n\nGeorgina Spelvin plays Justine Jones, a lonely, depressed spinster who decides that suicide is the only way out of her routinely dull existence. While lying in the bathtub, Justine slits her wrists with a shaving blade and dies quietly as the water fills with her blood.\n\nBecause she has lived a \"pure\" life, Miss Jones finds herself in Limbo. There she meets Mr. Abaca (John Clemens), an angel, of sorts, who informs her that she does not qualify for entrance to Heaven because she has killed herself. Angry that this one indiscretion has left her with only the options of Limbo or Hell, she begs Mr. Abaca to let her \"earn\" her place in Hell by being allowed to return to Earth and become the embodiment of Lust. After an intense session of pain and pleasure with a menacing man who goes only by the title of \"The Teacher\" (Harry Reems), Justine has a few bizarre and sexually deviant encounters, the last of which is a graphic threesome.\n\nHowever, just as she is enjoying her new life of lust, the brief time Justine was given to fulfill herself runs out and she is faced with the eternity of Hell. At first, Miss Jones is horrified at the pain she will be forced to endure, but Abaca is quick to dispel the common human myth of Hell and promises Justine that she will be \"quite comfortable...\"\n\nJustine, now a raging sex addict, then finds herself confined to a small room with an impotent man who is more interested in catching flies than her. She desperately begs the man for sex, but he simply asks her to be quiet while he listens to the buzzing of his imaginary insects.\n\nTrapped in her own private Hell, Miss Jones is left screaming in agony for all eternity, thirsting for a climax she will never achieve by her own means.\n\n\nSpelvin was 36 when she made the film. \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" was one of her first acting appearances following a career as a chorus girl on Broadway where she was featured in productions such as \"Cabaret\", \"Guys and Dolls\", \"Sweet Charity\", and \"The Pajama Game\".\n\nHer role in \"The Devil In Miss Jones\" was typical of her career, as she often played celibate spinsters who have a sexual awakening, then become sex fiends (e.g. \"Sleepyhead\"). She also meets a tragic end in several of her other films. The film marked the first time she used the moniker Georgina Spelvin, a reference to George Spelvin, a traditional stagename used to hide a performer's identity, for any number of reasons. According to her interview on Dave's Old Porn, Spelvin also did the craft services and cooking on the set. The actress billed in the movie as Claire Lumiere was hired to do craft services only, but was offered $100 to do a lesbian scene with Spelvin, which she accepted.\n\nIn an audio interview with The Rialto Report in 2013, Spelvin spoke about how she and Lumiere were lovers at the time and they accepted the adult film work as a means of raising money for their film collective.\n\nThe movie was given an X rating by the MPAA and premiered at the 57th Street Playhouse in New York City. In many theaters it was shown after \"Deep Throat\" as part of a double bill. \"The Devil In Miss Jones\" broke the box office record for a pornographic film. It was more commercially successful than both \"Deep Throat\" and \"Behind the Green Door\", and successfully competed against mainstream films. It earned $15 million in gross rental at the U.S. box office, making it the tenth most successful film of 1973, just behind \"Paper Moon\" with Ryan O'Neal and \"Live and Let Die\" with Roger Moore.\n\nAs with the other films of the porno chic era, it was reviewed by the film critics of mainstream newspapers. The film's review in \"Variety\" said, \"With \"The Devil in Miss Jones\", the hard-core porno feature approaches an art form, one that critics may have a tough time ignoring in the future,\" and compared its plot to Jean-Paul Sartre's play \"No Exit\". The review went on to say, \"Damiano has expertly fashioned a bizarre melodrama,\" and described the opening scene as \"a sequence so effective it would stand out in any legit theatrical feature\". It finished by stating, \"Booking a film of this technical quality into a standard sex house is tantamount to throwing it on the trash heap of most current hard-core fare.\"\n\nAccording to Peter Michelson there is, \"a relatively small corpus of [pornographic] films—e.g., \"Deep Throat\", \"Devil in Miss Jones\", \"Behind the Green Door\"—that have a minimal but still sufficient artistic interest to distinguish themselves from the rest of the genre\".\n\nOther critics have described it as, along with \"Deep Throat\", one of the \"two best erotic motion pictures ever made\". Roger Ebert gave \"Deep Throat\" a no-stars rating, but described \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" as the \"best\" of the genre he had seen and gave it three stars out of a possible four. He wrote that the relatively high production values and storytelling were partly the reason for his positive review, but that Spelvin's performance was the main draw: \"she is not only the best, but possibly the only, actress in the hard-core field. By that I mean when she's on the screen, her body and actions aren't the only reasons we're watching her. Alone among porno stars, she never seems exploited.\" William Friedkin has called it a \"great film\", partly because it was one of the few porn films with a proper storyline. It was one of the first films to be inducted into the XRCO Hall of Fame.\n\nThe theme for the film was \"I'm Comin' Home\", sung by Linda November.\n\nDialogue was heavily sampled on a track called \"The Teacher\" by electronic outfit Wave Mechanics in 1991 on the Oh'Zone label - the label who first released the acid house classic \"Chime\" by British electronic music pioneers Orbital before it became a crossover hit in the UK.\n\nIn 2006, VCX employed Media Blasters to digitally re-master the film from the original 35mm film into a \"Definitive Collectors Edition\" 2-Disc set on DVD. This latest revision has been repackaged and supposedly has the best picture and audio quality of any original Devil In Miss Jones release. The DVDs contain the remastered feature, audio commentary with director Gerard Damiano, a lengthy in-depth interview with Georgina Spelvin, the original trailer, the cable TV version, and a photo gallery.\n\nStarring: Jacqueline Lorians, Georgina Spelvin, Jack Wrangler, Samantha Fox, Anna Ventura, Joanna Storm, R. Bolla, Sharon Mitchell, Ron Jeremy\nwritten by Ellie Hayward and Henri Pachard; directed by Henri Pachard.\n\nA satirical take-off on the original, its title track was sung by Johnny Hartman.\n\nStarring Lois Ayres, Jack Baker, Careena Collins, Vanessa del Rio, Amber Lynn, Kari Foxx, Tom Byron, Jennifer Noxt, Chanel, Keli Richards, Peter North, Mark Wallice, and Paul Thomas. Kevin James had a non-performing role. Written by Gregory Dark and Johnny Jump-Up and produced and directed by Gregory Dark.\n\nIt won Best Film at the 1987 AVN Awards.\n\nStarring: Lois Ayres, Jack Baker, Patti Petite, Kristara Barrington, Keli Richards, Krista Lane, Tamara Longley, Erica Boyer, Paul Thomas, Ron Jeremy, F.M. Bradley and Kevin James. Written by Gregory Dark and Johnny Jump-Up; produced and directed by Gregory Dark. Parts 3 & 4 together won 'Best Classic DVD' at the 2000 AVN Awards.\n\nStarring Juli Ashton, Amanda Addams, Rip Hymen, Tammi Ann, Kelly O'Dell, Nicole Lace, Vanessa Chase, Ariana, Rowan Fairmont, Barbara Doll, Rebecca Lord, Serenity, Sindee Coxx, Tom Byron, Dave Cummings, Mark Davis written by Selwyn Harris; produced and directed by Gregory Dark.\n\nStarring Stacy Valentine, Vicca, Nikita, Randy Spears, Juli Ashton, Dizzy, Tina Tyler, Lacey Ogden, Peris Bleu, Anita Cannibal, Scotty Schwartz written and directed by Antonio Passolini\n\nIt won 'Top Renting Release of the Year' at the 2000 AVN Awards.\n\nStarring: Savanna Samson, Jenna Jameson, Rachel Rotten, Roxanne Hall, Angelica Sin, Vicky Vette, Dick Smothers, Jr., Nick Manning, Tony Tedeschi, Georgina Spelvin; written by Dean Nash and Raven Touchstone; directed by Paul Thomas and edited by Sonny Malone.\n\nAt the 2006 AVN Awards, the remake dominated the film categories, winning Best Art Direction, Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Screenplay, Best Director, Best Actress, Best Film, Best Supporting Actress and Best All-Girl Sex Scene. The film cost $250,000 to produce, which, according to \"The New York Times\" film reviewer Mireya Navarro was \"Vivid's most expensive (production) yet\" and one of the most expensive pornographic productions of all time.\n\nGeorgina Spelvin, the star of the original film, then nearly 70 years old, took a non-sexual role as a cleaning woman and mentor to the new Miss Jones.\n\nStarring: Belladonna, Savanna Samson, Penny Flame, Carmella Bing, Rebeca Linares, Victoria Sin, Kurt Lockwood, Nick Manning, Steven St. Croix, Evan Stone, Tom Byron; written by Raven Touchstone and Tony G.; directed by Paul Thomas\n\nWhile it received several AVN award nominations, it didn't win any awards..\n\nStarring: Alexandra Quinn, Taylor Wane, Cameo, Ron Jeremy, Randy West, Cal Jammer, Biff Malibu, Jerry Butler; directed by Steve Drake\n\nWhile not considered part of the \"Devil in Miss Jones\" series by some, this movie nevertheless is a sequel in which Quinn plays Amanda Jones, who, in limbo after death, must choose between the devil (Jeremy) and an angel (West).\n\nSubsequent to this production, Arrow and VCX were involved in a copyright dispute over the original \"Devil in Miss Jones\" along with two other Golden Age of Porn films, \"Deep Throat\" and \"Debbie Does Dallas\". Both companies continue to sell \"Devil in Miss Jones\".\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "4751823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4751823", "title": "Wassan", "text": "Wassan\n\nWassan () is a Sindhi Rajput|Rajput]] tribe found in Sindh, Pakistan. After the independence in 1947, Hindu Wassans emigrated to India.\n\nWassan is a surname of the cast from Ramgharia The Wassan are found mainly in the Sanghar District and Khairpur District of Sindh. Haji Nawab Khan Wassan and Pir Gudo in Kotdiji Taluka in Khairpur District are important villages of the tribe. Khan Bahadur Wassan of Kandiari and Khan Muhammad Wassan and his elder brother Haji Muhammad Saleh Wassan known as famus horse rider in Sanghar District as well as in Sindh Provence He also breeds many horse species in his form house known as village Haji Muhammad Mureed Wassan near kandiari District Sanghar. District Sanghar have remained prominent people of Wassan community.\n\nWassan community is politically supports two political parties: Pakistan Muslim League (F) and Pakistan Peoples Party. The supporters of both enjoy good relationship to one another on the basis of being members of same community. A sizeable number of the members of Wassan community are known as the followers of Sufi Pir Pagara (a spiritual Leader) and a prominent political figure of Pakistan. The name of Muhammad Khan Wassan is famous in Wassan family and as well as in agriculturist. He introduce new variety of cotton in Sindh. Muhammad Khan Wassan cultivated the between cotton his farm Abbas Farms in Shahdadpur and took bumper production of cotton and then he launched it to other areas of Sindh.\n\nWassans are widespread throughout Pakistan, India and Saudi Arabia. There are many prominent poets, Directors and writers in this caste, like Hassan Wassan he is the First Program Director, Producer, Host, reporter & Model in various TV Channals Since 1996 & Wafa Hakim Wassan, whose famous two books are available in market: Ujra Gorha Mera Gal (Sindhi) and Chund Nainan Main (Sindhi).\n\nAccording to traditions, Wassan are mainly Arabs came from Saudi Arabia during the rule of Umayyad Caliphate. The Wassan are found mainly in the Sanghar District and Khairpur District of Sindh. Haji Nawab Khan Wassan and Pir Gudo in Kotdiji Taluka in Khairpur District are important villages of the tribe. Khan Bahadur Wassan of Kandiari and Khan Muhammad Wassan of Sanghar have remained prominent people of Wassan community. Whereas Manzoor Wassan is current Minister for Works and Services.\n\nWassan community is politically supports two political parties: Pakistan Muslim League (F) and Pakistan Peoples Party. The supporters of both enjoy good relationship to one another on the basis of being members of same community. A sizeable number of the members of Wassan community are known as the followers of Sufi Pir Pagara (a spiritual Leader) and a prominent political figure of Pakistan. The name of Muhammad Khan Wassan is famous in Wassan family and as well as in agriculturist. He introduce new variety of cotton in Sindh. Muhammad Khan Wassan cultivated the between cotton his farm Abbas Farms in Shahdadpur and took bumper production of cotton and then he launched it to other areas of Sindh.\n\nWassans are widespread throughout Pakistan, India and Saudi Arabia. It is one of the traditions of wassans not to get married their women to other castes same like sindhi sayyeds and Khuwajas.but nowadays this tradition is finished coz awareness came in people that it is wrong tradition . There are many prominent poets and writers in this caste, like Hassan Wassan he is the First Program Director, Host in verious TV Channals and Wafa Hakim Wassan, whose famous two books are available in market: Ujra Gorha Mera Gal (Sindhi) and Chund Nainan Main.\n"}
{"id": "39628171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39628171", "title": "Women in Georgia (country)", "text": "Women in Georgia (country)\n\nWomen in Georgia live in a society which has been changing over the centuries, where, after decades of Soviet regime, from the 1990s onwards, the culture has seen rapid social changes and new emerging values, but has also been affected by economic instability.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, Georgia was part of the USSR. In 1991, after the Soviet dissolution, Georgia became an independent country. As with other countries of the former communist block, the transition from a planned economy to a market economy was hard, and unemployment, economic destabilization, and conflicts have harmed the population, especially in the 1990s. In terms of population, more than 8 out of 10 inhabitants are ethnic Georgians, but there are also minorities such as Azeri, Armenians, Russians, and others. The vast majority of the population is Orthodox Christian, but about one in ten are Muslim. The urbanization of the country is 53.6% (est. 2015). The total fertility rate (TFR) of 1.76 children born/woman (est. 2015) is below the replacement rate. The maternal mortality rate is 36 deaths/100,000 live births (est. 2015). \n\nThe Constitution of Georgia states at Article 14 that:\"\"Everyone is free by birth and is equal before law regardless of race, colour, language, religion, political and other opinions, national, ethnic and social belonging, origin, property and title, place of residence\".\"\n\nBecause Georgian culture is a patriarchal one, women are accorded a chivalric form of respect. Women can have the role of both as \"breadwinner and housewife\". Most of the chores at home are done by women. There is no \"explicit division of labor\" according to gender, except in so-called \"areas of physical labor\" (an example is in the field of mining). The statue of Mother of Georgia (\"Kartlis Deda\", or \"Mother of Kartli\") that stands at a monument in the hills above Tbilisi perhaps best symbolizes such national character: in her left hand she holds a bowl of wine with which she greets her friends and in her right is a sword drawn against her enemies. One of the most important and powerful rulers of Georgia was Queen (king of kings) Tamar the Great. In more recent history Georgian women have been able to acquire various positions in the military including being among the few professional fighter and helicopter pilots of the country's small airforce and also a small number in the army's special forces. Many women also serve in the field of law enforcement and the government. However, no women are allowed to become Orthodox church priests, or even to become Muslim mullahs. The so-called \"traditional stereotypes of gender-defined social roles\" are undergoing changes because of the education being received by new generation of women. Clothing norms stipulate that inside churches, head covering and dress or skirt for women are usually required.\n\nThe Labour Code of Georgia has certain protections for women. Article 2 \"Labor Relations\" para. 3 prohibits discrimination based on \"race, color, language, ethnic or social origin, nationality, origin, property, birth, place of residence, age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, membership of a religious , social, political or other associations, including the trade unions, by marital status, political or other opinion\". Art. 27 grants maternity leave, and Art 36 and Art 37 in general (and explicitly at sections Art 36(2)g together with Art 37(3)c) protect women from dismissal due to maternity, childbirth and child care, leave for a newborn child adoption and additional leave for child care.\nThe \"Law of Georgia on Gender Equality\" provides additional protections.\n\nIn 2006, Georgia enacted \"Law of Georgia on Elimination of Domestic Violence, Protection and Support of Victims of Domestic Violence\".\nGeorgia also ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "22006251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22006251", "title": "Women in Kuwait", "text": "Women in Kuwait\n\nWomen in Kuwait are among the most emancipated women in the Middle East region. In 2014 and 2015, Kuwait was ranked first among Arab countries in the Global Gender Gap Report. In 2013, 53% of Kuwaiti women participated in the labor force. Kuwaiti women outnumber men in the workforce.\nWomen in Kuwait have experienced many changes since the discovery of oil. They have a long history of official political and social activism which started in the 1960s and continues today. In the 1950s their access to education and employment increased dramatically.\n\nFrom the 17th century until the discovery of oil in the 1950s, the economy of Kuwait was largely dependent on maritime trade. While men were seafaring, Kuwait’s women managed their homes, and controlled family affairs and finances. For those families that could afford it, houses were built with a courtyard and a harem where women spent most of their time. This structure, along with high windows and doors that faced into the house rather than the street, removed women from public vision. Urban, upper-class women’s participation in the public sphere was limited. However, women from less fortunate circumstances had a much less secluded experience; they went to the suq on a daily basis, fetched drinking water and washed their families’ clothes on the beach. Kuwaiti girls began learning scripture in 1916 when the first Quran school was established. After this many women of modest means began working as religious instructors. The first private school opened in 1926; it taught reading, writing, and embroidery. Public schooling began in 1937 though enrollment in it was low for some time; however, by the 1940s many young Kuwaiti women were enrolled in primary school. It was often women themselves who pushed for these educational advances and opportunities and in 1956 a group of young women burned their abayyas to protest their right to go abroad to study.\n\nThe participation of Kuwaiti women in the labor force is much higher than the regional GCC average, Kuwait has the highest percentage of working female citizens in the GCC. Kuwaiti women outnumber men in the workforce.\n\nIn 2013, 53% of Kuwaiti women participated in the labor force. Kuwait's labor force participation rate for Kuwaiti women is much higher than the MENA average.\n\nWomen’s activism in Kuwait began in the 1950s. The first women’s organization, the Arab Women’s Renaissance Association (later changed to the Family Renaissance Association), was established by Noureya Al-Saddani in 1962 and was soon followed by the Women’s Cultural and Social Society in February 1963. The Girls Club (Nadi Alfatat) was established in 1975, its initial focus was on women in sport. In 1981 Bayader As-Salam, a religious group whose objective was cultural awareness, was formed. The same year Sheikha Latifa Al-Sabah’s Islamic Care Association was established, it sought to spread Islam and an Islamic lifestyle and conduct.\n\nKuwaiti women played a large role in resisting the Iraqi invasion in 1990. They mobilized the opposition, started an underground resistance paper called “al-Kuwaitiya”, passed weapons and ammunition through Iraqi checkpoints, transported and planted explosives using abayas, collected and distributed food and medicine, and ran shelters for the sick and disabled. During the invasion they also organized a large demonstration in defiance of the invasion, which cost some of them their lives. Women became active in Islamist groups in the 1980s when Islamism was on the rise in Kuwait. Through their early activity in these groups, many women acquired organizational skills which they were able to utilize in the campaign for suffrage.\n\nKuwait’s long tradition of artistic expression has been spearheaded and organized by women. Women’s involvement in the fine arts dates back to at least 1969 when Najat Sultan along with her brother Ghazi established the Sultan Gallery, which served as a propagator for contemporary and secular movements in Arab art. The gallery was shut after the Iraqi invasion and reopened in 2006 by Farida Sultan. It currently focuses on contemporary photography. Sheikha Hussah Al Sabah established Dar al-Athar al-Islamiyyah in 1983, and Dar al-Funoon gallery for contemporary art in 1992.\n\nContemporary artists include: Thuraya al Baqsami, who trained in Cairo and Moscow whose works can be found in museums worldwide; Shurooq Amin, whose subversive art pieces aim to challenge perceptions of society in the Gulf; Fatima Al Qadiri (member of Future Brown), an artist, musician and composer whose work is inspired by her experience in the Gulf War; Monira Al Qadiri, whose art explores gender and religious and cultural identities; and Nada Al Shammari, award-winning documentary filmmaker, documenting the contribution of women to contemporary culture and society in the Gulf States with 'Trailblazing Women in the History of Kuwait' and 'Trailblazing Women in Science and Technology'.\n\nThe women's suffrage campaign started in 1971 when a group led by Noureya Al-Saddani took a proposal to parliament to grant women political rights. The proposal was rejected. In the early 1990s, women campaigned heavily for the vote; they held protests outside of election headquarters and between 2000 and 2005 a number of women filed court cases against the Minister of Interior for his refusal to include women in election tables. In 2004 women demonstrated inside the parliament hall for the vote, and a year later they held one of the largest demonstrations in Kuwait’s history.\n\nIn 1999, the Emir Sheikh Jaber Al-Sabah promulgated a decree granting women suffrage after the parliament was dissolved, however, it was overturned by the new parliament just months later by two-votes difference. Kuwaiti women were granted the right to vote in May 2005. Women voted for the first time in June 2006, and in these elections 28 women ran out of a pool of 250 candidates though none won. Almost exactly four years after women were given full political rights, four were elected into parliament for the first time. The winners in the 2009 elections were: Massouma Al Mubarak (the first Kuwaiti woman appointed to the cabinet), Aseel Al Awadhi, Rola Dashti, and Salwa Al Jassar. In 2011, Kuwait was ranked highest of all Arab countries in gender equality in the Human Development Report's Gender Inequality Index.\n\n\nKuwait has a very high percentage of expatriates. Many Egyptian, Palestinian, Filipino and Southeast Asian women live in Kuwait. Palestinian women have worked in Kuwait since the 1950s, historically as teachers in girls’ schools. Nearly 90% of Kuwaiti households employ a foreigner worker, most often a South Asian woman. These women's labor is crucial to the social reproduction of Kuwait, though they occupy a marginal status and are not granted state protection or oversight. Non-Nationals are subject to residence and labor laws, which prevent them from permanently settling in Kuwait. Under the kafala system, whereby all migrants must have a citizen who sponsors their residence in Kuwait, many migrant workers cannot leave or enter the country without their employer’s permission and are often exploited.\n\n"}
{"id": "55596446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55596446", "title": "Yunnan Ethnic Village", "text": "Yunnan Ethnic Village\n\nThe Yunnan Ethnic Village () is a theme park that displays the various folklore, culture, and architecture of 26 ethnic groups in Yunnan Province, China. The park's major goal is mainly to display some aspects of Yunnan's ethnicity, cultural diversity, and heritage. Located in the southwest suburbs of Kunming next to Dianchi lake, Yunnan Ethnic Village covers an area of 89 hectares including 31 hectares of water. It is classified as a AAAA-class tourist attraction.\n\nThe following ethnic groups are represented in the Yunnan Ethnic Village:\n\n\n1310 Dianchi Road, Kunming, Yunnan. It is served by buses No. 44, 73, and A1.\n"}
