{"id": "52966451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52966451", "title": "Alahad TV", "text": "Alahad TV\n\nAlahad TV (   Alahad) is a satellite and terrestrial public broadcaster and television network in Iraq that was set up after 2009. It is an Arabic language network that serves upwards of 85% of Iraq's population. Al-Ahad TV is the television channel and media wing of Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq. The group is funded and trained by Iran's Quds Force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1864988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1864988", "title": "Arthur Pryor", "text": "Arthur Pryor\n\nArthur Willard Pryor (September 22, 1869 – June 18, 1942) was a trombone virtuoso, bandleader, and soloist with the Sousa Band. He was a prolific composer of band music, his best-known composition being \"The Whistler and His Dog\". In later life, he became a Democratic Party politician from New Jersey, who served on the Monmouth County Board of Chosen Freeholders during the 1930s.\n\nHe was born on September 22, 1869 on the second floor of the Lyceum Theater in Saint Joseph, Missouri. He was the son of Samuel Pryor, bandmaster and founder of the original Pryor band, and his wife. Arthur first took up music at a very young age under the tutelage of his father and was playing the valve trombone by age 11. The story goes that whenever he hit a sour note while practicing, his father planted a resounding crack on his head with a violin bow. The boy developed until he was so skilled that he won a place in the John Philip Sousa's band. He was hailed as a prodigy after this.\n\nPryor went on to direct the Stanley Opera Company in Denver, Colorado until joining the John Philip Sousa Band in 1892. He played his first solo with the Sousa Band at age 22 during the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. During his 12 years with the Sousa Band, Pryor estimated that he played 10,000 solos. From 1895 to 1903, Pryor was assistant conductor of the Sousa Band. During his association with the \"March King\", Pryor toured throughout the USA and Europe. While in Europe, he entertained King Edward VII of England and Czar Nicholas II of Russia with his trombone solos. Once while in Germany, all the trombonists of the German Army bands were ordered to hear him play. They were so amazed at his playing that they insisted on taking his trombone apart, refusing to believe that it was natural. Finally one German said: \"No one can play so well. It is a Yankee trick.\"\n\nIn 1902 after the death of his father, Pryor ended his association with Sousa and took over the reorganized Pryor band; he led its debut at the Majestic Theatre in New York City on November 15, 1903. For 30 years thereafter, Pryor's band was an American institution. He made his first appearance in Asbury Park, New Jersey at the Shore in 1904, where he continued to play until 1930. The Pryor Band toured until 1909, when he decided to settle down and make Asbury Park the home of the band. Also at this time, he became a staff conductor and arranger for the Victor Talking Machine Company in Camden, New Jersey. He organized a second band that played at the entertainment complex of Coney Island, New York, for a number of years.\n\nPryor retired from full-time conducting in 1933. On November 7 of that year, he and Henry W. Herbert were elected to the Monmouth County Board of Chosen Freeholders, defeating Director Bryant B. Newcomb and his running mate, Arthur Johnson. Pryor and Herbert would each serve one, three-year term in office. In the 1936 election, they were defeated by Republicans J. Russell Woolley and Edgar O. Murphy.\n\nPryor was married to Maude Russell Pryor. Their son Roger Pryor (1901 – 1974) also became a bandleader and a film actor. They also had sons Arthur Jr., who became a bandsman and advertising executive, and Samuel Pryor.\n\nThe senior Pryor suffered a stroke on June 17, 1942, and died on June 18 at his home in West Long Branch, New Jersey. Funeral services were conducted June 21, 1942, at the Trinity Episcopal Church, Asbury Park, followed by burial in Glenwood Cemetery, West Long Branch.\n\nPryor composed some 300 works, including marches, novelties, tone poems and three light operas, \"Jinga Boo\", \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" and \"On the Eve of Her Wedding Day\". Among his best-known numbers were \"On Jersey Shore\", \"Queen Titania\" and \"The Whistler and His Dog\". He set to work on an opera titled \"Peter and Paul\", with a libretto by L. Frank Baum; the libretto has been lost. It was intended to star Fred Stone and David Montgomery in several roles in several time periods.\n\nDuring his career, Pryor wrote some of today's most well-known trombone literature, including an arrangement of the heralded \"Bluebells of Scotland\", as well as band novelty works such as \"The Whistler and His Dog\", with its piccolo solo, his best-known composition. Much of this literature has been recorded by Ian Bousfield on his CD \"Pryor Engagement\" (Doyen DOY CD212).\n\nIn 1985, thousands of early Pryor scores were discovered by conductor Rick Benjamin. He has played many of Pryor's compositions with his Paragon Ragtime Orchestra.\n\n"}
{"id": "6406401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6406401", "title": "Augustan drama", "text": "Augustan drama\n\nAugustan drama can refer to the dramas of Ancient Rome during the reign of Caesar Augustus, but it most commonly refers to the plays of Great Britain in the early 18th century, a subset of 18th-century Augustan literature. King George I referred to himself as \"Augustus,\" and the poets of the era took this reference as apropos, as the literature of Rome during Augustus moved from historical and didactic poetry to the poetry of highly finished and sophisticated epics and satire.\n\nIn poetry, the early 18th century was an age of satire and public verse, and in prose, it was an age of the developing novel. In drama, by contrast, it was an age in transition between the highly witty and sexually playful Restoration comedy, the pathetic she-tragedy of the turn of the 18th century, and any later plots of middle-class anxiety. The Augustan stage retreated from the Restoration's focus on cuckoldry, marriage for fortune, and a life of leisure. Instead, Augustan drama reflected questions the mercantile class had about itself and what it meant to be gentry: what it meant to be a good merchant, how to achieve wealth with morality, and the proper role of those who serve.\n\nAugustan drama has a reputation as an era of decline. One reason for this is that there were few dominant figures of the Augustan stage. Instead of a single genius, a number of playwrights worked steadily to find subject matter that would appeal to a new audience. In addition to this, playhouses began to dispense with playwrights altogether or to hire playwrights to match assigned subjects, and this made the producer the master of the script. When the public did tire of anonymously authored, low-content plays and a new generation of wits made the stage political and aggressive again, the Whig ministry stepped in and began official censorship that put an end to daring and innovative content. This conspired with the public's taste for special effects to reduce theatrical output and promote the novel.\n\nAs for prose and poetry, there is no clear beginning to the \"Augustan era\" in drama, but the end is clearly marked. Augustan-era drama ended definitively in 1737 with the Licensing Act. Prior to 1737, the English stage was changing rapidly from Restoration comedy and Restoration drama and their noble subjects to the quickly developing melodrama.\nGeorge Lillo and Richard Steele wrote the trend-setting plays of the early Augustan period. Lillo's plays consciously turned from heroes and kings toward shopkeepers and apprentices. They emphasized drama on a household scale rather than a national scale, and the \"hamartia\" and \"agon\" in his tragedies are the common flaws of yielding to temptation and the commission of Christian sin. The plots are resolved with Christian forgiveness and repentance. Steele's \"The Conscious Lovers\" (1722) hinges upon his young hero avoiding fighting a duel. These plays set up a new set of values for the stage. Instead of amusing or inspiring the audience, they sought to instruct the audience and ennoble it. Further, the plays were popular precisely because they seemed to reflect the audience's own lives and concerns.\n\nJoseph Addison also wrote a play entitled \"Cato\" in 1713, but it did not inspire followers. \"Cato\" concerned the Roman statesman who opposed Julius Caesar. The year of its première is important for understanding why the play is unique, for Queen Anne was seriously ill at the time, and both the Tory ministry of the day and the Whig opposition (already led by Robert Walpole) were concerned about the succession. Both groups were in contact with Anne's exiled brother James Francis Edward Stuart. Londoners sensed this anxiety, for Anne had no surviving children; all of the closest successors in the Stuart family were Roman Catholic. Therefore, the figure of Cato was a transparent symbol of Roman integrity. The Whigs saw in him a Whig refusal to accept an absolute monarch from the House of Stuart, while the Tories saw in him a resistance to rule by a triumphant general (John Churchill, the Duke of Marlborough, whose wife Sarah was rumored to control Anne). Further, Cato's claim that Caesar profited by illegal war echoed the Tory accusations against Marlborough. Both sides cheered the play, even though Addison was himself clearly Whig and had meant the play as something near propaganda. John Home's play \"Douglas\" (1756) would have a similar fate to \"Cato\" in the next generation after the Licensing Act.\n\nAs during the Restoration, economic reality drove the stage during the Augustan period. Under Charles II court patronage meant economic success, and therefore the Restoration stage featured plays that would suit the monarch and/or court. The drama that celebrated kings and told the history of Britain's monarchs was fit fare for the crown and courtiers. Charles II was a philanderer, and so Restoration comedy featured a highly sexualized set of plays. However, after the reign of William III and Mary II, the court and crown stopped taking a great interest in the playhouse. Theaters had to get their money from the audience of city dwellers, therefore, and consequently plays that reflected city anxieties and celebrated the lives of citizens were the ones to draw crowds. The aristocratic material from the Restoration continued to be mounted, and adaptations of Tudor plays were made and ran, but the \"new\" plays that were authored and staged were the domestic- and middle-class dramas. The other dramatic innovation was \"spectacle\": plays that had little or no text, but which emphasized novel special effects.\n\nThe public attended when they saw their lives represented on the stage, but also attended when there was a sight that would impress them. If costumes were lavish, the sets impressive or the actresses alluring, audiences would attend. The Restoration spectacular had seen the development of English opera and oratorio and a war between competing theaters to produce the most expensive and eye-popping plays. However, these blockbuster productions could mean financial ruin as much as security, and neither of the two main playhouses could continue the brinksmanship for long. After these battles between the playhouses, and these were multiple, the theaters calculatingly sought the highest appeal with the lowest cost. If the cost of \"rehearsal\" time, in particular, could be shortened, the theater's investment would be reduced. Rehearsal time cost a playhouse its cast, its property masters, and its stages, and a long rehearsal meant fewer plays put on. Additionally, dramatists received the money from each third night of box office, and this could be dangerous to a house that needed every farthing to defray costs. Star dramatists could negotiate for more than one benefit night and might have terms for benefits on revival, while new, unknown, or dependent authors could be managed. The solution for the theatrical producers was to cut the costs of plays and actors while increasing the outright spectacle, and there were quite a few plays that were not literary at all that were staged more often than the literary plays.\nJohn Rich and Colley Cibber dueled over special theatrical effects. They put on plays that were actually just spectacles, where the text of the play was almost an afterthought. Dragons, whirlwinds, thunder, ocean waves, and even actual elephants were on stage. Battles, explosions, and horses were put on the boards (Cibber). Rich specialized in pantomime and was famous as the character \"Lun\" in harlequin presentations. The playwrights of these works were hired men, not dramatists, and so they did not receive the traditional third-night author's profits. A pantomime, after all, required very little in the way of a playwright and much more in the way of a director, and with John Rich and Colley Cibber both acting as star players and directors, such on-demand spectacles did not necessitate a poet. Further, spectacles could be written quickly to answer to the public's whims or the rival theater's triumphs, rarely risked offensive political statements, and did not require paying benefits to a playwright. In other words, they gave the managers more profit. The plays put on in this manner are not generally preserved or studied, but their near monopoly on the theaters, particularly in the 1720s, infuriated established literary authors. Alexander Pope was only one of the poets to attack \"spectacle\" (in the 1727 \"Dunciad A\" and, with more vigor, the \"Dunciad B\"). The criticism was so widespread that Colley Cibber himself made excuses for his part in the special-effects war, claiming that he had no choice but to comply with market pressures.\n\nIf vacant, subliterary spectacles were not enough of a threat to dramatists, opera, which had crossed over to England in the Restoration, experienced an enormous surge in popularity with Italian grand opera in England in the 1710s and 1720s. In \"The Spectator\", both in number 18 and the 3 April 1711 number, and many places elsewhere, Joseph Addison fretted that foreign opera would drive English drama from the stage altogether. These early fears followed the sudden rage for the Italian singers and operas that took over London in 1711 with the arrival of Handel. Inasmuch as opera combined singing with acting, it was a mixed genre, and its violation of neoclassical strictures had made it a controversial form from the start. Addison, damning opera's heterogeny, wrote, \"Our Countrymen could not forbear laughing when they heard a Lover chanting out a Billet-doux, and even the Superscription of a Letter set to a Tune.\" This type of opera not only took up theatrical rehearsal time and space, it also took away dramatic subject matter. Straight playwrights were at a loss. As John Gay lamented (see below), no one could use music in a play unless it was as an opera, and Englishmen were nearly forbidden from that. To add insult to injury, the casts and celebrated stars were foreigners and, as with Farinelli and Senesino (the latter of whom was paid two thousand pounds for a single season in 1721), castrati. Castrati were symbols, to the English, of the Roman Catholic Church. The satirists saw in opera the \"non plus ultra\" of invidiousness. High melodies would cover the singers' expressions of grief or joy, conflating all emotion and sense under a tune that might be entirely unrelated. Alexander Pope blasted this shattering of \"decorum\" and \"sense\" in \"Dunciad B\" and suggested that its real purpose was to awaken the Roman Catholic Church's power (\"Wake the dull Church\") while it put a stop to the political and satirical stage and made all Londoners fall into the sleep of un-Enlightenment:\n\nFurthermore, grand opera had a high degree of spectacle in it. In the 17th century, when opera first came to England, it prompted enormously complex theatrical stagings to present illusions of ghosts, mythological figures, and epic battles. When Handel's arrival in England spurred a new vogue for English opera, it also caused a new vogue for imported opera, no matter the content, so long as it would create an enormous visual impact. Although some of the \"Tory Wits\" like Pope and John Gay wrote opera librettos (the two combining for \"Acis and Galatea\" with Handel), opera was a spectacular form of theater that left too little room for dramatic acting for most of the playwrights. Pope argued in \"The Dunciad\" that Handel's operas were \"masculine\" in comparison to Italian and French opera. While this is a musical commentary, it is also a commentary on the amount of decoration and frippery put on the stage, on the way that Handel's operas concentrated on their stories and music rather than their theatrical effects.\n\nIt was not merely the fact that such operas drove out original drama, but also that the antics and vogue for the singers took away all else, seemingly, that infuriated English authors. The singers (particularly the sopranos) introduced London to the concept of the prima donna, in both senses of the term. In 1727, two Italian sopranos, Francesca Cuzzoni and Faustina Bordoni, had such a rivalry and hatred of each other (the latter had been paid more than the former) that the audiences were encouraged to support their favorite singer by hissing her rival, and during a performance of \"Astyanax\" in 1727, the two women actually began to fight on stage (Loughrey 13). John Gay wrote to Jonathan Swift on 3 February 1723:\n\nThese operas were spectaculars in every sense. The personalities of the stars were before the stage, the stars were before the music, and the music before the words. Additionally, opera brought with it new stage machines and effects. Even Handel, whom Pope values as restrained and sober, had his heroine brought on stage by \"two huge Dragons out of whose mouths issue Fire and Smoke\" in \"Rinaldo\" in 1711.\n\nThe \"problem\" of spectacle continued in the 1720s and 1730s. In 1734, Henry Fielding has his tragedian, Fustian, describe the horror of a pantomime show:\n\nFustian complains as well that authors are denied stagings because of these entertainments, and, as well, that playhouse managers would steal plays from their authors. As Fustian says earlier, a playwright could spend four months trying to get a manager's attention and then \"he tells you it won't do, and returns it to you again, reserving the subject, and perhaps the name, which he brings out in his next pantomime\" (\"Pasquin\" IV i.).\n\nToward the end of the 1720s, the behavior of opera stars, the absurdity of spectacle productions, and an escalation of political warfare between the two parties led to a reclamation of the stage by political dramatists. During the later years of King George I, who favored Robert Walpole, there was a scramble for the favor of the future King George II, his wife, and his mistress, and this combined with a shattering of public confidence in the government after the South Sea Bubble and revelations of corruption in the trial of Jonathan Wild, Charles Hitchen, the Earl of Macclesfield, and others.\n\nJohn Gay parodied the opera with his satirical \"Beggar's Opera\" (1728) and with it delivered a satire of Robert Walpole's actions during the South Sea Bubble. Superficially, the play is about a man named Macheath who runs a gang for a criminal fence named Peachum, whose daughter, Polly Peachum, is in love with him, and who escapes prison over and over again because the daughter of the jailor, Lucy Lockitt, is also in love with him. Peachum wishes to see Macheath hanged because Polly has married Macheath, unlike Lucy Lockitt, who is merely pregnant by him (and neither woman is concerned with Macheath's sexual activity, but only with whom he marries, for marriage means access to his estate when he is eventually hanged). Peachum fears that Macheath will turn him in to the law, and he also feels that marriage is a betrayal of good breeding, that prostitution is the genteel thing. Gay announced his intention to create the \"ballad opera\" with the play. The music for the songs came from tunes already popular, and ten of the tunes were from the satirist Tom D'Urfey, whose \"Pills to Purge Melancholy\" was a collection of coarse, bawdy, and amusing songs on various topics. The ballad was associated with folk songs and folk poetry, and so Gay's choice of using ballads (although ballads written by a well-known author) for his music was itself an attempt to deflate the seeming pomposity and elitism of the opera.\n\nFor most of the audience, the central entertainment of the opera was the love triangle between Macheath, Polly, and Lucy, but satirically, the centre of the opera was the Peachum/Macheath story. This story was an obvious parallel with the case of Jonathan Wild (Peachum) and Jack Sheppard (Macheath). However, it was also the tale of Robert Walpole (Peachum) and the South Sea directors (Macheath). Robert Walpole was one of the most divisive ministers in British history, and his control of the House of Commons ran for over two decades. Until Margaret Thatcher, no other Prime Minister (the office would not exist in name until later) had as adversarial a relationship with authors, and he had ruthlessly consolidated power and jealously guarded it against all threats. During the South Sea Bubble, Walpole was accused of being \"the screen,\" protecting the moneyed directors of the corporation from prosecution and of cashing in his own shares for full value before the collapse of the stock. Further, during the life and career of the actual Jonathan Wild, Walpole's Whig ministry was suspected of protecting and supporting the master \"thief-taker.\"\n\nAdditionally, Gay's opera was a strict parody and inversion of the opera. Gay has his thieves and prostitutes speak like upper-class gentlemen and ladies. Implicitly, he suggests that the nobles are no better than the thieves even as he suggests that thieves have their own mock-monarchies, senates, and religion. He has his Beggar (the putative author of the opera) explain that the two female leads have equal parts and therefore should not fight (a joke that witnesses of the diva battle would understand). The supernaturally lofty settings of opera are, in Gay's hands, the warrens of St Giles parish. For palace settings, he has prisons. For throne rooms, he has taverns. For kings, he has criminal fences. For knights errant/shepherd lovers, he has a highwayman. For goddesses drawn about on gilded chariots, he has a ruined maid, a chorus of prostitutes, and Polly (who is perversely chaste). The arias also use the same metaphors that were common in opera, and Gay's songs are themselves parodies of the predictable lyrics in opera. In each case, high and low trade places and Gay's suggestion of an essential likeness of the ministry with its most famous thief extended also to a suggestion that high opera is essentially like tavern songs and rounds. The play was a hit, running for an unheard-of eighty performances. Subsequently, the songs, as well as the play, were printed up and sold.\n\nRobert Walpole, who had some personal animosity to John Gay, attended the play and enjoyed it. However, upon learning from a friend that he was one of the targets of the satire, he tried to have the play stopped. When Gay wrote a follow-up called \"Polly,\" Walpole had the play suppressed before performance. The suppression was without precedent, although it was soon to be used \"as\" a precedent, for there had been no actual attack on the ministry. The anti-ministerial (Tory) sentiment was entirely derived from interpretation.\n\nPlaywrights were therefore in straits. On the one hand, when the playhouses were not running operas imported wholesale from the continent, they were dispensing with dramatists by turning out hack-written pantomimes. On the other hand, when a satirical play appeared from a literary source, the Whig ministry suppressed it even though it came from the most popular dramatist of the day (i.e., John Gay). Furthermore, the grounds of the suppression were all implicit comparisons, and nothing explicit. Gay had not \"said\" that Walpole was a crook as bad as Wild, although he had suggested it.\n\nRobert Walpole's personal involvement in censoring entertainments critical of him only fanned the flames of the antagonism between himself and the stage. Henry Fielding, among others, was not afraid to provoke the ministry, and anti-Walpolean plays spiked after the suppression of \"Polly\". Fielding's \"Tom Thumb\" (1730) was a satire on all of the tragedies written before him, with quotations from all the worst plays patched together for absurdity, and the plot concerned the eponymous tiny man attempting to run the kingdom and insinuate himself into the royal ranks. It was, in other words, an attack on Robert Walpole and the way that he was referred to as \"the Great Man\" and his supposed control over Caroline of Ansbach. As with Gay's \"Beggar's Opera,\" the miniature general speaks constantly in elevated tones, making himself a great hero, and all of the normal-sized ladies fight each other to be his lover. The contrast between reality, delusion, and self-delusion was a form of bathos that made the audience think of other grand-speaking and grandly spoken of people. If a ridiculously tiny figure could be acclaimed a hero because of his own braggadocio, might other great leaders be similarly small? Were they titans, or dwarves like Tom Thumb? Fielding announced, essentially, that the emperor had no clothes, the prime minister no greatness. Walpole responded by suppressing the performance of the play. Fielding was a justice of the peace by profession, and so he knew that the ministry could only control the stage and not book publication. Therefore, he tapped into the market for printed plays, and his revision of the play was solely in book form. It was written by \"Scribblerus Secundus,\" its title page announced (a reference to the Scriblerus Club of Jonathan Swift, Gay, Pope, Robert Harley, Thomas Parnell, John Arbuthnot, and Henry St. John), and it was the \"Tragedy of Tragedies,\" which did for drama what Pope's \"Peri Bathos: or The Art of Sinking in Poetry\" had done for verse. Fielding placed a critical apparatus on the play, showing the sources of all the parodies, and thereby made it seem as if his target had all along been bad tragedy and not the prime minister. (Fielding's later novel, \"Jonathan Wild\", makes it clear that such was not the case, for it used exactly the same satirical device, \"the Great Man,\" to lambaste the same target, Robert Walpole.)\n\nHenry Fielding was not done with ministry satire. His \"Covent-Garden Tragedy\" of 1732 was set in a brothel amongst the prostitutes. Although the play was only acted once, it, like \"Tom Thumb,\" sold when printed. Its attacks on \"poetic license\" and the antirealism of domestic tragedians and morally sententious authors was an attack on the values central to the Whig version of personal worth. Two years later, Fielding was joined by Henry Carey in anti-Walpolean satire. His \"Chrononhotonthologos\" takes its cue from \"Tom Thumb\" by outwardly satirizing the emptiness of bombast. However, it also encoded a very specific and dangerous satire of King George II and his statutory wife. The king and queen never meet in the play, and the subject is the former's wars with personal discomfort and the latter's desire for adultery. In particular, the Queen herself is implicitly attacked. However, the play also appears to be a superficial work of fancy and nonsense verse, and it delighted audiences with tongue twisters and parody. However, Carey worked \"The Dragon of Wantley\" into a play in 1734. Fielding and Carey, among others, picked up the cudgels where the Tory Wits had set them down and began to satirize Walpole and Parliament with increasing ferocity (and scatology). Although a particular play of unknown authorship entitled \"A Vision of the Golden Rump\" was cited when Parliament passed the Licensing Act of 1737 (the \"rump\" being Parliament, a rump roast, and human buttocks simultaneously), Carey's \"Dragon of Wantley\" was an unmistakable attack on tax policy and the ever-increasing power of the London government over the countryside. Notably, Fielding's and Carey's plays made allowances for spectacle. Indeed, their plays relied upon a burlesque of spectacle and by spectacle, for the effects of TopsyTurvy armies in \"Chrononhotonthologos\" (stacked atop each other instead of in ranks) and the titular dragon of Wantley, as well as the miniaturizing of Tom Thumb and the lurid scenery of the Covent Garden brothel, were part of the draw and part of the humor for these plays.\n\nThe Licensing Act required all plays to go to a censor before staging, and only those plays passed by the censor were allowed to be performed. Therefore, plays were judged by \"potential\" criticism of the ministry and not just by reaction or performance. The first play to be banned by the new Act was \"Gustavus Vasa\" by Henry Brooke. The play invoked the Swedish Protestant king Gustav Vasa to castigate the purportedly corrupt Parliament of Walpole's administration, although Brooke would claim that he meant only to write a history play. Samuel Johnson wrote a Swiftian parodic satire of the licensers, entitled \"A Complete Vindication of the Licensers of the Stage\" (1739). The satire was, of course, not a vindication at all but rather a \"reductio ad absurdum\" of the position for censorship. Had the licensers not exercised their authority in a partisan manner, the Act might not have chilled the stage so dramatically, but the public was well aware of the bannings and censorship, and consequently any play that \"did\" pass the licensers was regarded with suspicion by the public. Therefore, the playhouses had little choice but to present old plays and pantomime and plays that had no conceivable political content. One consequence was that William Shakespeare's reputation grew enormously as his plays saw a quadrupling of performances, and sentimental comedy and melodrama were the only \"safe\" choices for new drama. Dramatists themselves had to turn to prose or to less obvious forms of criticism, such as puppet shows that Charlotte Charke would invest in.\n\nIn comedy, one effect of the Licensing Act was that playwrights began to develop a comedy of sentiment. This comedy was critically labeled as \"high\" comedy, in that it was intended to be entertaining rather than actually be funny, and brought about its entertainment by elevating the sentiments of the viewer. The plots also relied upon characters being in or out of sympathy with each other. Very late in the 17th century Oliver Goldsmith attempted to resist the tide of sentimental comedy with \"She Stoops to Conquer\" (1773), and Richard Brinsley Sheridan would mount several satirical plays after Walpole's death. Both of these playwrights were taking advantage of a loosening of the censorship and popular weariness with \"refined\" comedy. Goldsmith's play reintroduces the country bumpkin character who outwits the sophisticated would-be rakes who are engaged in a plot to marry well. Sheridan, on the other hand, very consciously turned back to the Restoration comedy for his models but carefully toned down the dangers of the sexual plots.\n\nAs mentioned above, another effect of the Licensing Act was to send the playhouses to old plays. Since any play written before 1737 could be staged without permission, theaters had a great deal to choose from. However, they sought out Shakespeare, in particular, as the one author whose name alone could generate an audience as large as those formerly provided by leading poets. Shakespeare's stature had been rising throughout the 18th century, and textual criticism, particularly of Shakespeare, had resulted in reliable texts (\"see Shakespeare's reputation for details\"). Further, many of the expurgated and \"improved\" versions of Shakespeare were falling from favor. Actors such as David Garrick made their entire reputations by playing Shakespeare. The Licensing Act may be the single greatest factor in the rise of \"Bardolatry.\" However, other, less sparkling, plays were also revived, including multiple versions of \"Lady Jane Grey\" and \"The Earl of Essex\" (including one by Henry Brooke that had been written before the Act). Each of these could be used as a tacit commentary on the politics of the contemporary court and as a political gesture. Therefore, when playhouses wished to answer the public's political sentiment, they could quickly mount a performance of \"Cato\" or one of the Lady Jane Greys or, if the mood was otherwise, one of Aphra Behn's royalist plays, and some of the Restoration plays such as William Wycherly's \"The Plain Dealer\" and William Congreve's \"The Way of the World\" were always promising comedy. However, when they needed to fill the house reliably, regardless of political season, and show off their actors, they staged Shakespeare.\nFinally, authors with strong political or philosophical points to make would no longer turn to the stage as their first hope of making a living. Prior to 1737, plays were \"de rigueur\" for authors who were not journalists. This had to do with the economics of booksellers. A bookseller would purchase a book from an author, whether that book was \"Gulliver's Travels\" or \"Collected Sermons,\" and would calculate his chances of making money off of sales. He would pay the author according to the money he expected to make. (For example, Goldsmith's \"The Vicar of Wakefield\" was famously sold to pay a single rent installment, whereas John Gay had been paid 1,000 pounds for his \"Poems on Various Occasions\", which was more than seven years of salary for his government job). That would be the only money an author would see from the book, and therefore he or she would need to produce a new version, new book, or a serial publication of the next work to have hopes of more income. Prior to 1737, novelists had come from the ranks of satirists (Jonathan Swift) and journalists (Daniel Defoe), but these novels had in common wide changes of scenery, long plots, and often impossible things (such as talking horses)—all features that made the works unsuitable for the stage. The exception was Aphra Behn, who was a dramatist first and a novelist second. Her \"Oroonoko\" seems to have been written as a novel simply because there was no time for staging, as it was a political commentary on ongoing events, and she could not have another play on the boards at the time. Her \"Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and His Sister\", like \"Gulliver's Travels\" and \"Moll Flanders\", was inappropriate for the stage. However, after 1737, novels began to have dramatic structures involving only normal human beings, as the stage was closed off for serious authors.\n\nAdditionally, prior to 1737 the economic motivations for dramatists were vast. A playwright received the house take of the third night of a play. This could be a very large amount of money, and it would be renewed with each season (depending upon arrangements). Thus, John Gay grew wealthy with \"The Beggar's Opera\". In 1726, Leonard Welsted's indifferent success, \"The Dissembled Woman\", was acted at Lincoln's Inn Fields. It netted him £138 for the author's benefit but only £30 for the printing rights. After the Licensing Act closed off hopes for serious authors on the stage, the novel was the next logical path. In particular, Samuel Richardson's \"Clarissa\" was published in serial form and made the author a substantial amount of money from subscriptions. The novel became a potentially lucrative form of publishing, and booksellers began to pay more for novels as novels began to sell more. From being a form of exigency, the novel became a form of choice after the stage was shut down by the Licensing Act. Therefore, the Licensing Act had the unintended effect of increasing rather than decreasing the power of dissenting authors, as it put a stop to anti-Walpolean sentiments and anti-ministry arguments on the stage (which could only reach audience members in London) and sent these messages instead to the novel form, where they would remain in print, pass from hand to hand, and spread throughout the kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45349134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45349134", "title": "Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Music Director", "text": "Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Music Director\n\nBangladesh National Film Award for Best Music Direction () is the highest award for music direction in Bangladeshi film.\n\nFerdausi Rah\n\nman became the only female musician to claim a National Award for best music direction. Alauddin Ali three consecutive awards in the years : 1978, 1979 and 1980. Khandaker Nurul Alam won this award in 1984, 1986 and 1991. Satya Saha earned two consecutive awards in 1994 and 1996. Alam Khan earned three awards in the 1980s : 1982, 1985 and 1987. On the other hand, Alauddin Ali won his 4th and 5th (the last) National Award in 1988 and 1990 respectively. Azad Rahman earned this honour twice : 1977 and 1993. Alam Khan surpassed Alauddin Ali's record in 2009 by winning a record 6th National Film Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9137583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9137583", "title": "Best of the Best: Championship Karate", "text": "Best of the Best: Championship Karate\n\nBest of the Best: Championship Karate (also known as \"Super Kick Boxing\" and \"The Kick Boxing\") is a kick boxing game that features black belt kick boxing masters. The object is to win the kick boxing championship by defeating an array of kick boxing masters in a series of fighting matches. The Sega Genesis version is one of the few games to offer support for the Sega Activator motion controller.\n\nThe game was originally released in 1990 in Europe as \"André Panza Kick Boxing\" for various computers as well as the \"TurboGrafx-16\".\n\nMartial artist/actor Ron Yuan stated in a 1994 interview that \"I know a lot of pure gamers will disagree, but the best SNES fighting game from a purely technical martial arts point of view is \"Best of the Best\". It didn't get much notoriety, but my friends and I know martial arts, and they go nuts whenever we play.\"\n"}
{"id": "34236573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34236573", "title": "Borborbor", "text": "Borborbor\n\nBorborbor is a Ghanaian and Togolese traditional dance performed by the Ewe people from the mid-Volta region of Ghana. The dance is performed especially during the festival of the chiefs and peoples of communities. \n"}
{"id": "54330116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54330116", "title": "Brawl Stars", "text": "Brawl Stars\n\nBrawl Stars is a freemium multiplayer mobile arena fighter/party brawler video game developed and published by Supercell. On June 14, 2017, Supercell announced the game via a livestream video on YouTube. It received an iOS soft launch in the Canadian App Store the following day, June 15, 2017. The game was made available in Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Norway App Stores on January 19, 2018. On June 26, 2018, Android received access to the game as a continuation of the soft launch. On November 14, 2018, Supercell announced its global launch on a YouTube stream. The game will be released globally on December 12, 2018.\n\nIn \"Brawl Stars\", players are ranked by their level and total trophies. Players collect brawlers and select one to use each game. Brawlers come in six rarity types: League Rewards, Rare, Super Rare, Epic, Mythic and Legendary. There are currently 21 brawlers in the game, including eight League Reward Brawlers, three Rare Brawlers, three Super Rare Brawlers, three Epic Brawlers, two Mythic Brawlers and two Legendary Brawlers. Players get brawlers from Brawl Boxes, (with the exception of League Reward Brawlers, which are acquired via gaining trophies), which can be acquired from keys or gems. Big Boxes can be acquired using gems or 10 Star Keys (earned by winning the first match in a map). Players can join bands to play alongside other players. \"Brawl Stars\" has eight unique game modes: Bounty, Brawl Ball, Gem Grab, Heist, Showdown, Duo Showdown, Robo Rumble and Boss Fight.\n"}
{"id": "6700079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6700079", "title": "Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror", "text": "Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror\n\nBroken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror is a point-and-click adventure video game originally released on Microsoft Windows and PlayStation in 1997. It was re-released on Microsoft Windows, OS X and iOS as a remastered edition in 2010 and on Android in 2012. It is the second installment in the \"Broken Sword\" series, and the first game in the series that does not follow the Knights Templar storyline. The player assumes the role of George Stobbart, a young American who is an eyewitness to the kidnapping of his girlfriend Nicole Collard.\n\nThe game was conceived in 1997 by Revolution. Though serious in tone, \"The Smoking Mirror\" incorporates some humour and graphics animated in the style of classic animated films. It was the fourth and last game built with the Virtual Theatre engine, which was used to render the locations of the game's events.\n\nUnlike the first \"Broken Sword\" game, which garnered critical acclaim, \"The Smoking Mirror\" received mixed to positive reviews, mostly for not living up to its predecessor. Nevertheless, it was a commercial success, selling 750,000 copies by August 2000. Revolution released a remastered version of the game in 2010, which unlike the original version, received highly favorable reviews from critics.\n\n\"Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror\" is a 2D adventure game played from a third-person perspective. Via a point-and-click interface, the player guides protagonist George Stobbart through the game's world and interacts with the environment by selecting from multiple commands, while Nicole Collard is also a playable character in selected portions of the game. The player controls George's movements and actions with a mouse (PC and PlayStation), or a gamepad (PlayStation). Player can collect objects that can be used with either other collectible objects, parts of the scenery, or with other people in order to solve puzzles and progress in the game. George can engage in dialogue with other characters through conversation trees to gain hints of what needs to be done to solve the puzzles or to progress the plot. The player uses a map to travel, and new locations are added to it as the story unfolds. By right clicking on an object, the player gets a description and clues. The player character's death is possible if the player makes a wrong decision.\n\nSix months after the events of \"\", protagonist George Stobbart and his girlfriend, Nicole Collard, visit an archaeologist named Professor Oubier to learn about a mysterious Mayan stone Nicole uncovered while researching a newspaper story. At Oubier's home, they are ambushed by two Central Americans, who kidnap Nicole, tie George to a chair and set the building ablaze. George unties himself and puts out the fire. He contacts Andre Lobineau, who reveals that Nicole had suspected that something would go wrong and had left the stone with him. Lobineau tells him of a gallery owner who can tell him more about Mayan art. George discovers that Oubier supplies the gallery with Mayan artifacts, which he imports through a company named Condor Transglobal. Following this lead, George finds the two Central Americans who kidnapped Nico. One of them, whose name is later revealed to be Pablo, is shown threatening and berating the other (later revealed to be called Titipoco). George knocks Pablo unconscious and discovers that Condor Transglobal has links with Quaramonte City in Central America. He also frees Titipoco, who had been manacled by Pablo. George finds Nico, who reveals that, while trying to expose a drug ring run by a man named Karzac, she was sent the stone instead, prompting her to arrange the appointment with Oubier.\n\nThe two escape the warehouse and retrieve the Mayan stone from Lobineau. Afterwards, they go to Quaramonte City in hopes of finding Condor Transglobal. They find the city under dictatorial rule by 'Madame La Presidente' Grasiento, and learn that the town contains no Condor Transglobal offices. The two meet Professor Oubier, who is talking to the chief of police, Raoul 'The General' Grasiento, about a mysterious chart. George confronts Oubier about his girlfriend's abduction, but the professor claims he knows nothing, and that he has not been in Paris recently. George decides to help a CIA agent, Duane, free a local agitator, Miguel, from jail by distracting General Grasiento. Afterwards, he prepares to detonate the jail wall but is arrested in the process. George gets Duane to tie a rope to the bars and pull the wall down with his truck, alerting General Grasiento. Miguel escapes, and Nicole and George flee down river on a boat. However, the boat sinks after being attacked by a helicopter.\n\nGeorge wakes up the next morning on the river bank, and finds a treehouse belonging to a Christian missionary named Father Hubert. Hubert has been nursing Nicole back to health, but she has suffered a snakebite and requires special medicine. He takes George to the local Mayan village, as he believes the village Shaman will be able to help. George shows his Mayan stone to the shaman, who explains that, hundreds of years ago, Mayan shamans had trapped the god Tezcatlipoca inside a mirror. However, he was so powerful that he would inevitably escape, so they created three stones that contained the power to keep him imprisoned. Before they could be put in place, they were stolen by explorers: one by a Spanish pirate named Captain Ketch, who hid it in the Caribbean; one by an English ship, which took it to England; and one by Spanish explorers, who took it back to Spain. The third of these stones was in Nico's and George's possession. George returns to the treehouse and cures Nicole with medicine from the shaman. Shortly thereafter, the two separate to find the two remaining stones.\n\nNicole tracks a stone down to a museum in London, England, where she encounters but does not recognize Professor Oubier. After he leaves, the stone is discovered to be missing and the museum is locked down. Nicole escapes via an abandoned subway station and finds Oubier on a boat in the Thames with Karzac. Nicole witnesses Karzac killing Oubier, and then sneaks in, takes the stone and escapes. Meanwhile, George tracks the remaining stone to a small museum in the Caribbean. Following subtle clues left by Captain Ketch, George learns that the stone was left on the nearby \"Zombie Island\". George explores Zombie Island and finds that a butchered remake of Treasure Island is being filmed there. He poses as a stuntman to gain access to the place where the stone is being kept, but gets captured by Pablo and his men to be used as a sacrifice to Tezcatlipoca. Nicole travels back to Quaramonte and saves George; together with Titipoco they enter Tezcatlipoca's pyramid. As they reach the central room, Karzac frees the ancient god there. However, Tezcatlipoca promptly kills Karzac. President Grasiento appears and attacks Titipoco, and their struggle sends them over a cliff. Raoul, realizing that he is expendable to his mother, chooses to save Titipoco. The protagonists place the stones into their respective slots, which causes Tezcatlipoca to be pushed back into the mirror. George and Nicole briefly celebrate and the final cut-scene fades into the credits.\n\n\"Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror\" was conceived in 1997, by Charles Cecil and Revolution. Charles Cecil was the director and writer of the game; Tony Warriner, David Sykes, Jonathan Howard, Paul Porter, James Long, Patrick Skelton, Chris Rea and Pete Ellacot worked on the software side of the project. Noirin Carmody was the executive producer. The game uses the Virtual Theatre engine, which was previously used for \"Lure of the Temptress\", \"Beneath a Steel Sky\", and \"\". The artwork for \"Broken Sword II\" was developed through a number of stages. Initially pencil drawings were made of characters which were then digitally coloured in, before being cleaned up. The background layouts were produced in a similar way, starting out as pencil designs, and were all drawn by Eoghan Cahill and Neil Breen, who previously worked on the first \"Broken Sword\", working together with Amy Berenz and Lee Taylor. The game's graphics are animated in a style which resembles classic animated films.\n\nThe music in the game was composed by Barrington Pheloung, who also composed the music in \"Shadow of the Templars\", with Bob Sekar adding the closing score. Audio features of the game include recorded sound effects, orchestral music and voice acting directed by Edward Hall. While Rolf Saxon returned to voice George Stobbart, a new actress, Jenny Caron Hall, was cast as Nicole Collard. The rest of the credited voice actors in the game are Dennis Chinnery, Stephanie Clive, Jeff Fletcher, Corey Johnson, Chris Miles, Gary Parker, Flaminia Cinque and Leo Wringer.\n\nWhen considering the project, Charles Cecil played the game again and noticed many issues, including pixilated backgrounds, FMV and audio were of poor quality, and he also felt some dialogue was out of place. He thought all these elements could be addressed and improved in a remastered edition, in which they could add a diary, hint system, and new artwork from Dave Gibbons, which they could offer as an interactive digital comic.\n\nOn 9 December 2010, Revolution Software announced the release of Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror - Remastered on iOS devices, and was released on 16 December 2010. The new features include an exclusive interactive digital comic from Dave Gibbons, fully animated facial expressions, enhanced graphics, high quality music, a context-sensitive hint system, diary, and a Dropbox integration which facilitates a unique cross-platform save-game feature, enabling players to enjoy the same adventure simultaneously on multiple devices. It also featured full Game Center integration – including in-game achievements. The Mac and PC versions followed in early 2011.\n\nA launch trailer for the iPhone and iPod touch version was also released on Revolution's YouTube channel \"revolutionbevigilant\". On the second day of Apple's \"12 Days of Christmas\", \"Broken Sword II - Remastered\" was made free to download for 24 hours.\n\nThe original PC version is available from Sold-Out Software and GOG.com (with purchases of \"Broken Sword II - Remastered\"). However, the \"Remastered\" version of the game is available from various digital distribution services, including the iPhone/iPod Touch and iPad AppStore, Mac AppStore, Intel AppUp, Steam and GOG.com. \"Broken Sword II - Remastered\" is also a part of the \"Broken Sword Complete\" package from Mastertronic.\n\nWith purchases of \"Broken Sword II - Remastered\" on GOG.com, the consumer also gets the original game, the manual, an exclusive game guide, 18 artworks, and the comic book. The digital \"Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror - Remastered\" comic book was created by Dave Gibbons. The short comic provides information on what happened before the beginning of the game.\n\n\"Broken Sword II\" was a commercial success. By August 2000, it had achieved sales of 750,000 copies, of which 510,000 were sold at full price. The game and its predecessor together sold roughly 2 million units by March 2001.\n\n\"The Smoking Mirror\" received mixed to positive reviews from critics. \"Gaming Age\" gave the game a B+, saying: \"The sound is another area in which The Smoking Mirror excels. Although there isn't a constant soundtrack playing, haunting music often accompanies certain actions, much like the original Tomb Raider.\" \"PC Gamer\" gave it a score of 82%, saying it's \"more of the same solid adventure fare found in Circle of Blood.\" GameSpot gave the game a 7.9 out of 10 and praised it for its additions that \"help to streamline the adventure\", but criticised the \"insufficient information about Tezcatlipoca and Maya civilization altogether\" when it came to the storyline. Jen of \"Four Fat Chicks\" gave it a \"thumbs up\" and stated that he would recommend this game for the good storyline and the beautiful graphics, but if players want a game that has more adventuring, they should look elsewhere. \"Mr. Bill and Lela\" of Mr. Bill's Adventureland praised its controls and humour, and called it an excellent sequel, that they wouldn't want to have missed out on playing.\n\nUnlike the original release, \"Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror\" has received very positive reviews from critics. AppSafari gave the game a 5 out of 5, saying: \"Production values for the game are sky-high, with gorgeous graphics, challenging, well-designed puzzles, and pitch-perfect voice acting. The sequel also implements the same fantastic touch interface of its predecessor.\" AppGamer gave the game a 10 out of 10, saying: \"Broken Sword 2 will last you hours, having all the playability of a full-priced PC game. It is the kind of game that could convert people who wouldn't look twice at adventure games, and is easily one of my most highly recommended titles on the platform.\" GameZone gave the game an 8 out of 10 and praised the game's controls and cut scenes, but stated that the iPad version of the game can be blurry at times. Carl Stevens of TouchGen gave the game 4 out of 5 start and stated that it should be on everybody's \"must play list\" and that the ease of, and restriction between some puzzles were the only let down in the game. Jeniffer Allen of 148Apps gave the game a 4 out of 5 stars and praised it, saying: \"Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror is a fantastic game. The story feels as fresh and as entertaining as it did back in the day, and the slightly improved graphics are much appreciated. Many hours of entertaining storytelling lie ahead.\"\n"}
{"id": "44702498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44702498", "title": "Chuvash National Broadcasting Company", "text": "Chuvash National Broadcasting Company\n\nChuvash National Broadcasting Company (CNBC, ) – broadcasting company of the Chuvash Republic. Autonomous Institution \"National Broadcasting Company of Chuvashia\" was created in December 2011 by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Chuvash Republic.\n\nFounder – Ministry of Information and Mass Communications of the Chuvash Republic. The company includes: \"Chuvash National Television\", \"Chuvash National Radio\" and \"Native Radio\"\n\nThe need to create a country of national electronic media is ripe for a long time, but the lack of a smart official or political will not render the matter to the practical field.\n\nThe desire of the population of the republic and the Chuvash Diaspora in Russian Federation still be heard. In accordance with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Chuvash Republic of 11 December 2008 № 372 \"On the establishment of an autonomous institution of the Chuvash Republic\" Chuvash national radio of \"Ministry of the Culture, Ethnic Affairs, Information Policy and Archives of the Chuvash Republic\" was created Chuvash national radio, which began test broadcasts of 25 April 2009.\n\nOn 24 February 2011 CNBC won the competition for the right to air broadcasting on a frequency of 105.0 MHz.\n\nOn 28 November 2012 CNBC won federal competition for the right to broadcast on the terrestrial frequency 100,3 FM in Cheboksary. On 16 December 2013 in test mode began to work a new radio – \"Naive radio.\"\n\nChuvash National Company develops in line with a multicultural society. A professional team is ready to program the Chuvash and Russian languages are broadcast programs about the history, traditions, national identity of other peoples living in Chuvash Republic.\n\nRadio channel broadcasts in Chuvash and Russian languages on the whole country on 105.0 FM and VHF waves 72.41, the third button, as well as real-time online www.ntrk21.ru. Technical ability to take \"Chuvash national radio – Chăvash Yen\" have 1,250.5 thousand. Man in the Chuvash Republic, as well as residents of neighboring republics and regions. The radio channel is actively replenishes audiarhiv, is recording radio shows and premiere performances. National Radio produces more than 50 programs every month.\n\nChuvash National Television – the first TV channel in the country, applied \"without film\" technologies production. The latest equipment provides video production at a high technical level. The mobile station allows you to broadcast important events in the life of the republic in the record and live.\n\nNow the \"Chuvash National Broadcasting\" produced 27 original programs. Daily news program goes \"Republic\" in Russian and Chuvash language. Only for 2013 recorded more than 25 concerts and performances. This entire amount of work performed 29 employees television. A total of 75 people working in TV and Radio.\n\nBroadcasting of the \"Native Radio\" () on the frequency 100,3 FM apply to Cheboksary, Novocheboksarsk and surrounding areas. In the broadcast sound songs in Russian and Chuvash language, the best of the \"Chuvash National Radio\", live broadcasts and other information and entertainment. In the first place – is an interactive radio, a platform for discussion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3090964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3090964", "title": "Cinema of the Philippines", "text": "Cinema of the Philippines\n\nThe cinema of the Philippines (Filipino: \"Pelikulang Pilipino\" or \"Sine Pilipino\") began with the introduction of the first moving pictures to the country on January 1, 1897 at the \"Salón de Pertierra\" in Manila. The following year, local scenes were shot on film for the first time by a Spaniard, Antonio Ramos, using the Lumiere Cinematograph. While most early filmmakers and producers in the country were mostly wealthy enterprising foreigners and expatriates, on September 12, 1919, \"Dalagang Bukid (Country Maiden)\", a movie based on a popular musical play, was the first movie made and shown by Filipino filmmaker José Nepomuceno. Dubbed as the \"Father of Philippine Cinema\", his work marked the start of cinema as an art form in the Philippines.\n\nEven with the problems currently facing motion pictures around the world, movies are still considered as one of the popular forms of entertainment among the Filipino people, directly employing some 260,000 Filipinos and generating around ₱2 billion revenues annually.\n\nThe Film Academy of the Philippines established its own national film archive in October 2011. Furthermore, their annually held Luna Awards honor the outstanding Filipino films as voted by their own peers. Meanwhile, the Manunuri ng Pelikulang Pilipino hands out the Gawad Urian Awards, which is well known due to its credible choices of winners. Currently, Box Office Mojo compiles box office performance for local and foreign films in the country.\n\nThe formative years of Philippine cinema, starting from the 1930s, were a time of discovering the film genre as a new medium of art. Scripts and characterisations in films came from popular theatre and familiar local literature. Nationalistic films were also quite popular, although they were labeled as being too subversive.\n\nThe 1940s and the war brought to the Philippine cinema the consciousness of reality. Movie themes consisting primarily of war and heroism had proven to be a huge hit among local audiences.\n\nThe 1950s saw the first golden age of Philippine cinema, with the emergence of more artistic and mature films, and significant improvement in cinematic techniques among filmmakers. The studio system produced frenetic activity in the local film industry, as many films were made annually and several local talents started to earn recognition abroad. Award-giving bodies were first instituted during this period. When the decade was drawing to a close, the studio system monopoly came under siege as a result of labor-management conflicts, and by the 1960s, the artistry established in the previous years was already on the decline. This era can be characterized by rampant commercialism, fan movies, soft porn films, action flicks, and western spin-offs.\n\nThe 1970s and 1980s were turbulent years for the industry, bringing both positive and negative changes. The films in this period now dealt with more serious topics following the Martial Law era. In addition, action and sex films developed further, introducing more explicit subject matter. These years also brought the arrival of alternative or independent film in the Philippines.\n\nThe 1990s saw the emerging popularity of slasher movies, teen-oriented romantic comedies, as well as sexually explicit adult films, although slapstick comedies still draw a large audience. Genres of previous decades had been recycled with almost the same stories, and love teams, which had been popular in the past, have reemerged.\n\nThe Philippines, which as one of Asia's oldest film industries, remains undisputed in terms of the highest level of theater admission in Southeast Asia. Over the years, however, the film industry has registered a steady decline in movie viewership from 131 million in 1996 to 63 million in 2004. From a high of 200 films a year during the 1980s, the country's film industry was down to making a total of 56 new films in 2006 and around 30 in 2007. Although the industry has undergone turbulent times, the 21st century saw the rebirth of independent filmmaking through the use of digital technology, and a number of films have once again earned international recognition and prestige.\n\nOn 1 January 1897, the first four movies, namely, \"Un Homme Au Chapeau (Man with a Hat)\", \"Une scène de danse japonnaise (Scene from a Japanese Dance)\", \"Les Boxers (The Boxers)\", and \"La Place de L' Opéra (The Place L' Opéra)\", were shown via 60 mm Gaumont Chrono-photograph projector at the \"Salon de Pertierra\" at No.12 Escolta in Manila. The venue was formerly known as the Phonograph Parlor on the ground floor of the Casino Español at Pérez Street, off Escolta Street. Other countries, such as France, England, and Germany had their claims to the introduction of publicly projected motion picture in the Philippines, although Petierra is given this credit by most historians and critics.\n\nCarlo Naquera, a Spanish soldier from Aragón, was able to import a Lumiere Cinematograph from Paris, including 30 film titles, out of his savings and the financial banking of two Swiss entrepreneurs, Liebman and Peritz.\n\nBy August 1897, Liebman and Peritz presented the first movies on the Lumiere Cinematograph in Manila. The cinema was set up at Escolta Street at the corner of San Jacinto Street. A test preview was presented to a limited number of guests on 28 August and the inaugural show was presented to the general public the next day, August 29, 1897. Documentary films showing recent events as well as natural calamities in Europe were shown.\n\nDuring the first three weeks, Ramos had a selection of ten different films to show, but by the fourth week, he was forced to shuffle the 30 films in various combinations to produce new programs. These were four viewing sessions, every hour on the hour, from 6:00 P.M. to 10:00 P.M. After three months, attendance began to slacken for failure to show any new features. They transferred the viewing hall to a warehouse in Plaza Goiti and reduced the admission fees. By the end of November, the movie hall closed down.\n\nThe next year, to attract patronage, using the Lumiere as a camera, Ramos locally filmed \"Panorama de Manila (Manila landscape)\", \"Fiesta de Quiapo (Quiapo Fiesta)\", \"Puente de España (Bridge of Spain)\", and \"Escenas Callejeras (Street scenes)\", making him the first movie producer in the Philippines. Aside from Ramos, there were other foreigners who left documentary evidences of their visits to the Philippines. Burton Holmes, father of the travelogue, who made the first of several visits in 1899, made the \"Battle of Baliwag\"; Kimwood Peters shot the \"Banawe Rice Terraces\"; and, Raymond Ackerman of \"American Biography\" and \"Mutoscope\" filmed \"Filipino Cockfight\" and the \"Battle of Mt. Arayat\".\n\nFilm showing in the Philippines resumed in 1900 when a British entrepreneur named Walgrah opened the Cine Walgrah at No.60 Calle Santa Rosa in Intramuros. The second movie house was opened in 1902 by a Spanish entrepreneur, Samuel Rebarber, who called his building, \"Gran Cinematógrafo Parisino\", located at No. 80 Calle Crespo in Quiapo. In 1903, José Jiménez, a stage backdrop painter, set up the first Filipino-owned movie theater, the \"Cinematograpo Rizal\" in Azcarraga Street (now C.M. Recto Ave.), in front of the Tutuban Railway Station. In the same year, a movie market was formally created in the country along with the arrival of silent movies and American colonialism. The silent films were always accompanied by gramophone, a piano, or a quartet, or when \"Caviria\" was shown at the Manila Grand Opera House, a 200-man choir.\n\nIn 1905, Herbert Wyndham, shot scenes at the \"Manila Fire Department\"; Albert Yearsly shot\" the Rizal Day Celebration\" in Luneta 1909; in 1910, the \"Manila Carnival\"; in 1911, the \"Eruption of Mayon Volcano\"; the first \"Airplane Flight Over Manila\" by Bud Mars and the \"Fires of Tondo, Pandacan and Paco\"; and, in 1912, the \"Departure of the Igorots to Barcelona\" and the \"Typhoon in Cebu\". These novelty films, however, did not capture the hearts of the audience because they were about the foreigners.\n\nThe Philippine Commission recognized early the potential of cinema as a tool of communication and information, so that in 1909, the Bureau of Science bought a complete film-making unit and laboratory from Pathé, and sent its chief photographer, the American, Charles Martin, to France to train for a year. When Martin completed his training, he resolved to document, in motion pictures, the varied aspects of the Philippines.\n\nIn 1910, the first picture with sound reached Manila, using the Chronophone. A British film crew also visited the Philippines, and filmed, among other scenes, the \"Pagsanjan Falls (Oriental)\" in 1911 in kinemacolor. In 1912, New York and Hollywood film companies started to establish their own agencies in Manila to distribute films. In the same year, two American entrepreneurs made a film about the execution of Jose Rizal, and aroused a strong curiosity among Filipino moviegoers. This led to the making of the first Filipino film, \"La vida de Jose Rizal\".\n\nBy 1914, the US colonial government was already using films as a vehicle for information, education, propaganda and entertainment. The Bureau of Science tackled subjects designed to present an accurate picture of the Philippines before the American public, particularly the US Congress. By 1915, the best European and American films were shown in Philippine theaters. When World War I (1914–1918) choked off the production of European studios, Manila theater managers turned to US for new film products. With the variety they offered, American films quickly dominated the Philippine film market.\n\nThe first film produced by a Filipino is José Nepomuceno's \"Dalagang Bukid (Country Maiden)\" in 1919 based on a highly acclaimed musical play by Hermogenes Ilagan and León Ignacio. Early filmmakers, even with meager capital, followed some of the genres provided by Hollywood movies. The main sources of movie themes during this period were theater pieces from popular dramas or zarzuelas. Another source of movie themes at that time was Philippine literature.\n\nDuring the 1920s when the Germans and Russians dominated the artistic development of the film and its techniques (Examples are \"The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari\" – 1919, \"Nosferatu\" – 1922, and \"Battleship Potemkin\" – 1925), Filipino-Visayan filmmakers such as Max Borromeo, Florentino Borromeo and Celestino Rodriguez collaborated in making \"El Hijo Disobediente\" (The Disobedient Son) in 1922. This black and white silent picture could have been one of the earliest noted films from the Southern Philippines. The year 1929 marked the advent of talking pictures, but only in 1938 did the Visayan Film Industry have its first \"talkie\" entitle \"Bertoldo Ug Balodoy\" (Bertoldo and Balodoy) written by Piux Kabahar, which was followed by \"Mini\" (Fake; 1940), and \"Gugmang Talagsaon\" (Rare Love; 1940) by Virgilio Gonzales. In Cebu, the first movie houses were built by the Avila Clan: Ideal Theater (1911), Cine Auditorium (1922) and Cine Oriente (The old Teatro Junquera). Films have already been showing outside of Manila as early as 1897 through the feats of Señor Pertierra, a Spanish expatriate and a certain Englishman going only with the surname of 'Bischoff'. Mr. Bischoff was the first to show films in Iloilo in 1903. These were short features produced by the film company Cinematographo Pastor and were screened nightly from 6:30 to 9:30 in Bischoff's bodega or camarin in Calle Real. Later on, other film companies have also begun to rise such as Cinematografo Insular (which arrived from Manila to Iloilo in 1905), Cinematografo Teatro Colón and Cinematografo Parsien. To coincide with the rising of such film companies, there came the establishment of movie houses in Iloilo. In 1919, one highlighted event that stood out from that decade was the showing of the first full-length Tagalog feature film in Iloilo: Jose Nepomuceno's Dalagang Bukid (literal translation from Tagalog: 'mountain girl'). Thousands of Ilonggo film buffs went to see the movie and were highly moved by it. In Iloilo, Teatro Malhabour touted as the first cinema or movie house in Iloilo was opened to the public on July 3, 1908. Other early cinema or movies houses in Iloilo City include the Rex Theater, Roxy Theater, Republic Theater and Cine Commonwealth built around 1910s–1920s. The two prominent or popular cinema houses in Iloilo include the oldest still existing and operating movie theater in Iloilo, Cine Palace and the now defunct Cine Eagle both built in 1928.\n\nIn 1929, the \"Syncopation\", the first American sound film, was shown in Radio theater in Plaza Santa Cruz in Manila inciting a competition on who could make the first talkie among local producers. On December 8, 1932, a film in Tagalog entitled \"Ang Aswang (The Aswang)\", a monster movie inspired by Philippine folklore, was promoted as the first sound film. Moviegoers who remembered the film attested that it was not a completely sound film. José Nepomuceno's \"Punyal na Guinto (Golden Dagger)\", which premiered on March 9, 1933, at the Lyric theater, was credited as the first completely sound, all-talking picture in the country.\n\nIn the 1930s, a few film artists and producers deviated from the norms and presented sociopolitical movies. Ironically, the people who helped the film industry develop and flourish were also the same people who suppressed its artistic expression by inhibiting movie themes that would establish radical political views among the Filipinos. Instead, love and reconciliation between members of different classes of people were encouraged as themes.Julian Manansala’s film \"Patria Amor (Beloved Country)\" was almost suppressed because of its anti-Spanish sentiments.\n\nCarmen Concha, the first female director in the country, also ventured into filmmaking, and she directed \"Magkaisang Landas\" and \"Yaman ng Mahirap\" in 1939 under Parlatone, and \"Pangarap\" in 1940 under LVN.\n\nDespite fierce competition with Hollywood movies, the Filipino film industry survived and flourished. When the 1930s drew to a close, the Filipino film industry was well established, and local movie stars acquired huge followers.\n\nSome popular movie stars of the pre-WWII era include:\n\nDuring the Japanese Occupation, filmmaking was suddenly put to a halt. As was the case in Japan's other colonial and occupied film markets, Japanese film companies took over the local exhibition venues replacing films from the Hollywood and the region with Japanese films for propaganda. Japanese films had been imported into the Philippines since the late 1930s but without great success. Japanese-sponsored film production in the Philippines continued until 1945 but was limited mostly to newsreels and educational films.\n\nAlthough the Philippines never became a center for feature film production under the Japanese, it was a strategically important market for Japan. First, unlike Manchuria, where the Japanese literally had to construct a film industry, the Philippines already had many large, well-equipped motion picture theaters that were well-stocked with significant Hollywood product. Many confiscated films were exported back to Japan to train its filmmakers. Production facilities were better in the Philippines than any other market in the Japanese empire with the exception of Shanghai. This was another reason why such Japanese film companies as the Nanyo Film Association (南洋映画協会) and Film Distributors (映画配給者) each established branch offices in Manila in 1942. Further, due to the long period of American influence, the local film community boasted a significant number of people who had worked in Hollywood during the silent era and had considerable experience.\n\nIn 1944, Toho Studios sent director Abe Yutaka to Manila to produce the first of what would be the only two feature films to be entirely shot on location by the Japanese. \"Ano hata o ute\" (あの旗を撃て) aka \"Dawn of Freedom\" told the story of the Japanese victory at the Battle of Corregidor and the U.S. military's hasty retreat from the islands. The film presented the Japanese as Asian liberators who came to free the Filipinos from decades of colonial oppression that began with the Spanish and continued with the Americans. The film was shot in Japanese, Tagalog, and English and was written for the screen by Tsutomo Sawamura, co-directed by Gerardo de Leon (uncredited), and co-starred Fernando Po and Leopold Celecdo. The other Japanese-produced feature film shot in the Philippines was \"Tatlong Maria\" (1944). At the same time, the comedy duo Pugo and Togo, popular for satirizing Japanese occupation in the Philippines, was renamed to \"Tuguing and Puguing\" because of Togo name's closeness to Tojo, the name of the Prime Minister of Japan during the early 1940s. However, perhaps out of deference to the substantial local Japanese population, film censors were sensitive to Japanese complaints about negative representations of Japanese in U.S. films screened in the Philippines and aggressively cut scenes depicting Japanese soldiers committing atrocities in \"Thunder in the Orient\" (1939) and \"Fight For Peace\" (1939) years before Japanese military occupation.\n\nDuring World War II, almost all actors depended only on stage shows on most major Manila movie theaters as livelihood. As a consequence, live theater began to thrive again as movie stars, directors and technicians returned to the stage.\n\nAfter the second world war, a resurgence of Visayan films came about through Lapu-Lapu Pictures, which produced \"Timbu Mata\" (1948), starring Eva de Villa and Lino Ramas, and \"Damgo ni Adan\" (Adan's Dream), produced by Rudy Robles. Then came Mactan Films which produced \"Tahas\" (Mission; 1950), starring Luz Celeste and Dakay; Mat Ranillo was in this film. Then \"Balud\" (Wave; 1950) which starred Luz Celeste and Mat Ranillo. Another independent picture, \"Sa Kabukiran\" (In the Mountains; 1948), was also produced during this time.\n\nBy 1951, Azucena Productions was established by the Arong Family (owners of Rene and Liberty Theaters). They produced \"Princesa Tirana\" (Princess Tirana), 1951 with Mat Ranillo and Gloria Sevilla (her first feature title role after she was discovered through a declamation contest at the University of the Visayas) as lead players. Their first feature together made such a box office success in the Visayas and Mindanao that other features immediately followed: \"Leonora\" (1951), \"Pailub Lang\" (Be Forebearing; 1951), \"Utlanan\" (Border; 1952), \"Handumanan\" (Memoir; 1953), \"Inahan\" (Mother; 1952), starring Mat Ranillo and Caridad Sanchez; \"Antigan\" (1952) with Virgie Postigo and Arise Roa; \"Carmen 1 and 2\" (from the famous radio drama in Cebu; 1953), \"Paabuta Lang Ako\" (Wait for Me; 1953), \"Gloria Kong Anak\" (Gloria My Child; 1953), and \"Gihigugma Kong Ikaw\" (I Love You; 1954). Mat and Gloria then became synonymous to Visayan pictures, and since then were called as the King and Queen of Visayan Movies.\n\nIn 1953 a film entitled \"Sangang Nangabali\" (Broken Branches), produced by Cebu Stars Production broke box-office records in the mid-1950s. Cebu Stars Productions (owned by the Tojong Family) had earlier produced \"Dimakaling\" (1952) and \"Mga Anak Intawon\" (Oh, Poor Children; 1953). Other independent Visayan films produced at this time were: \"Mapait Ang Balaod\" (by Arturo Blanco; 1953), Bugas Mais (Corn Rice; by Arturo Blanco; 1953), \"Kapintas Sa Kinabuhi\" (Hard Life; 1953), (Cebu Stars Productions with Esterlina and Rebecca Torres), \"Pit Senor\" (Hail Senor) and \"San Tilmo\" (1953), (Barba Productions), \"Ang Siloy\" (1953) (with Nora Hermosa and Rebecca Torres), \"Huni sa Gugma\" (Where Is Love; 1953), \"Dadansoy\" (1953) and \"Inahan\" (Mother; 1954).\n\nMutya and VM Productions (formed by Natalio Bacalso – former Cebu assemblyman) entered \"Salingsing sa Kasakit\" (Partner in Pain), directed by Bacalso, in the 1955 FAMAS derby and won the \"Best Child Actor Award\" for Undo Juezan. These movie outfits also produced some memorable features such as \"Ungo Sa Parian\" (Witch In The Parian); Remember Erlinda;Rosita; \"Politika\" (Politics); and \"Mutya sa Saging Tindok\" (Muse of Saging Tindok). \"Garbosa\" (Proud; 1957) and \"Matam-is Ang Pagpaubos\" (Too Sweet to Suffer; 1957) were also released during this time.\n\nMat ang Gloria finally got married off-screen (in real life) and formed S-R Productions in 1954. The company's initial projects were \"Paradista\" (1955) and \"May Luhang Nahabilin sa Baybayon\" (A Tear Fell on the Shore; 1955) and even as they moved on to make Tagalog movies in Manila, they still continued producing Visayan movies like (It is the Palm That Commands) with Flash Elorde and Edita Clomera; \"Palad Ta Ang Nagbuot Lungsod Sa Buenavista\" (Town of Buenavista; 1969), and \"Hain Ang Langit\" (Where is Heavean?; 1969), with Gloria Sevilla and Mat Ranillo and Von Serna – this is Mat's last movie. \"Badlis sa Kinabuhi\" (The Line of Life; 1969) was entered in the 18th FAMAS Awards and got 12 nominations out of 14 categories. Gloria Sevilla won Best Actress, Frankie Navaja, Jr. won Best Child Performer, and the late Mat Ranillo got a posthumous award (Mat Ranillo had earlier died in a plane crash in 1969). The film (\"Badlis\") was the Philippine entry to the ASEAN Film Festival in Indonesia, and was showcased under the informative division of the Berlin Film Festival (the film was dubbed in English in Hong Kong and retitled \"Destined\"). In 1970, \"Badlis Sa Kinabuhi\" and \"Palad Ta Ang Nagbuot\" were released in their original Visayan versions in Metro Manila and made good at the box office. \"Ang Bayan\" (The Country), 1970 was also produced at this time.\n\nThe 1970s saw the emergence of more Visayan talents in the Tagalog film industry. Actresses such as Chanda Romero, Caridad Sanches, Alma Moreno, Tessie Sevilla, Rebecca Torres, Aurora Villa, Eva de Villa, Rosita Fernandez, Virgie Postigo, Virgie Solis, Olivia Solis, Cora Real, Diana Arong, Luz Celeste, Annabelle Rama, Suzette Ranillo, Lady Ramos, Pilar Pilapil, and others stepped into the limelight. Male leads (to name a few) were Bert Nombrado, Ber Lopez, Tony Delgado, Riel Ylaya, Lino Ramas, Arturo Blanco, Arturo de Castille, Frankie Navaja Jr, Tony Cruz, Undo Juezan, Felix de Catalina, Arsie Roa, Warfi Engracia, Kadyo Roma and Romy Kintanar (who is now a sports commentator). Directors Leroy Salvador, Fernando Alfon, Talyo Bacalso, Sat Villarino, Gene Labella, Leox Juesan, Cesar B. Cesar and Emmanuel H. Borlaza also originated from the south. Borlaza directed Alma Bonita (with Chanda Romero and Ernie Garcia) and Paypay Placid (Fan of Placid), Diadem Films, (with Pepito Rodriguez, Lilian Lain, Alice Mendez, and Justo C. Justo). Other films that were produced at this time were Medalyon Nga Bulawan (Medalyon Na Ginto), produced by Annabelle Rama, starring Bert Leroy, Gina Pareno, Jerry Pons, Charlie Davao, Johnny Delgado, Raul Aragon, Alice Mendez, and Yoyoy Villame; (with Nobo Bono, Jr. and Tessie Sevilla); Mayor AndalBatul of Mactan (Battle of Mactan), JRJ Productions, starring Chanda Romero, Eddie Peregrina and Alice Mendez; Anino sa Villa Lagrimas (Shadow of Villa Lagrimas), starring Chanda Romero and Ernie Garcia; Bulawan Sa Lapok (Gold in the Mud), starring Alicia Alonzon, Bert Leroy Jr., Tommy Abuel and Dindo Fernando; Antonio Solitaryo and Mga Milagaro sa Santo Niño (Miracles of Sto. Niño), Magnolia Films both directed by Sol Gaudite; Aliyana, 1974; and Ikaduhang Bathala (Second God), 1974.\n\nGloria Sevilla remarried in 1971, and together with her husband Amado Cortez (of the Padilla clan) went on to produce another Visayan film entitled Gimingaw Ako (I Long For You), 1974 (which was shot entirely in Cebu City and directed by Amado Cortez starring Gloria Sevilla, Suzette Ranillo, Bert Nombrado and Inday Nita Cortez). This film won the FAMAS \"Best Actress Award\" for Gloria Sevilla and \"Best Supporting Actress Award\" for Suzette Ranillo. Naghila Ako Sa Kahilum (Crying Silently) also came about within the year. Other independent productions were: Diego Salvador, 1973; Ang Pagbabalik ni Diego Salvador (The Return of Diego Salvador), 1974 with Von Serna; and Sabrin, 1975 with Chanda Romero and Rebecca Torres.\n\nVisayan film producers continued trying to revive the Visayan movies in the mid-seventies by filming in the 16mm format and transferring the material to 35mm for theatrical release. Films such as \"Ang Manok ni San Pedro\" (St. Peter's Rooster), 1975 and \"Itlog Manoy Orange\" (The Orange Egg Vendor), 1976 were originally shot in 16mm. This less costly process, however, did not prevent the Visayan film industry from finally going into a dormant stage. The Tagalog film industry was just at an upswing at this time, prompting Visayan producers to venture into television production instead.\n\nIt was not until 1991 that another Visayan film project was brought to the big screen. \"Eh Kasi Babae\" (Because She Is a Woman) starring Pilita Corales, Yoyoy Villame and Manilyn Reynes was produced, then followed by \"Matud Nila\" (They Say; 1991) (Bisaya Films, Inc. produced by James R. Cuenco, Jr.). This starred Gloria Sevilla, Mat Ranillo III, Suzette Ranillo, Dandin Ranillo, Juni Ranillo, Pilar Pilapil, Jennifer Sevilla, Mark Gil and Pinky Marquez. Matud Nila also marked the last film directed by Leroy Salvador.\n\nAfter World War II, the Philippine version of a war film emerged as a genre. The audience were hungry for films with patriotic themes. Films such as \"Garrison 13\" (1946), \"Dugo ng Bayan (The Country’s Blood)\" (1946), \"Walang Kamatayan (Deathless)\" (1946), and \"Guerilyera\" (1946), narrated the horrors of the war and the heroism of the soldiers and guerrillas.\n\nThe 1950s was labeled as the first golden age of Philippine cinema. Four big production studios (LVN Pictures, Sampaguita Pictures, Premiere Productions and Lebran International) were at their peak in filmmaking, employing premier directors like Gerardo de León, Eddie Romero and César Gallardo while contracting the biggest stars of that period. The Filipino film industry was one of the busiest and bustling film communities in Asia, releasing an average of 350 films a year making Philippines second to Japan in terms of film productions a year.\n\nThe premier directors of the era were (but not limited to):\n\nThe biggest stars of the era were (but not limited to):\n\n\nThe four biggest production studios produced most of the notable films of Philippine cinema during this era. In 1951, the movie \"Roberta\" of Sampaguita Pictures which featured leading child stars was the hit. LVN Pictures, under the leadership of the Doña Sisang de León, not only specialized in super productions, rural comedies and musicals, but also produced socially-relevant films such as Avellana's \"Anak Dalita\" (1956), Tony Santos's \"Badjao\" (1957) and Manuel Silos's \"Biyaya ng Lupa\" (1959). Sampaguita Pictures mainly produced high-gloss, glamorous pictures such as \"Maalaala Mo Kaya\" (1954). On the other hand, Premiere Productions released most of the action films of the decade, such as \"Sawa sa Lumang Simboryo\" (1952), \"Salabusab\" (1954) and \"Huwag Mo Akong Limutin\" (1960).\n\nHigh production values on the motion pictures during this era produced movies that gained international acclaim. In 1952, Manuel Conde's \"Genghis Khan\" became the first Asian film to be shown at the Venice and Cannes Film Festival, a feat that would not be repeated until the 1970s. Inspired by Conde's picture, Hollywood remade \"Genghis Khan\" in 1956 as \"The Conqueror\" with John Wayne as the lead star \"The Conqueror\", from RKO Radio Pictures. And also of Columbia Pictures' film \"Genghis Khan\" in which Omar Sharif portrayed in the title role in 1965.\n\nIn 1956, \"Anak Dalita\" won the Golden Harvest Award (Best Picture) of the prestigious Asia-Pacific Film Festival. Actress Lilia Dizon, was presented with the Best Actress Award by the prince of Cambodia, Norodom Sihanouk, for the film \"Kandelerong Pilak\" in the 1954 Asia-Pacific Film Festival. Leroy Salvador was also recognized in his performance as Best Supporting Actor for the film \"Huk sa Bagong Pamumuhay\" (1953) in the same film festival.\n\nDuring this era, the first award-giving body was also established in 1950. The \"Maria Clara Awards\" of the Manila Times Publishing Corp., was composed of film publicists and writers who voted for the exemplary achievements of Filipino motion pictures in a calendar year. In 1953, the María Clara folded up to give way to the establishment of the Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences (FAMAS), the Philippines' equivalent to the United States' Academy Awards in prestige.\n\nDuring this period, Filipinos saw Hollywood's first full length picture in living Technicolor. Soon after, Filipino local producers started presenting full-length pictures in color despite some technical deficiency, one of which was \"Prinsipe Amante\" (Prince Amante).\n\nThis era is characterized by rampant commercialism with James Bond and Western knock offs, and in the latter 60's, the so-called \"bomba\" (soft porn) pictures. It was also the era of musical films produced mostly by Sampaguita Pictures and their discovered talents.\n\nThe studio systems came under siege from the growing labor movement, which resulted in labor-management conflicts. The first studio to close was Lebran followed by Premiere Productions then LVN. Those production studios were replaced by new and independent producers like Regal Films, which was established by Lily Monteverde in 1962.\n\nThe decade also saw the emergence of the youth subculture best represented by the Beatles and rock and roll. As a result, certain movie genres were made to cater to this trend. Fan movies and teen love team-ups emerged, showing Nora Aunor and Vilma Santos, along with Tirso Cruz III and Edgar Mortiz as their respective screen sweethearts. In addition, movie genres showing disaffection to the status quo during the era were also popular. Action movies with Pinoy cowboys and secret agents as the movers of the plots depicted a \"society ravaged by criminality and corruption\". Another kind of youth revolt, implying rejection of adult corruption, came in the form of movies featuring child stars. Near the end of this decade, another movie genre that embodied a different form of revolt took center stage. Soft porn movies, more popularly known as \"bomba\" films, increasingly became popular, and these films were described as a direct challenge to the conventions, norms and conduct of the society.\n\nEven in the period of decline, several Philippine films that stood out. These include the following films by Gerardo de Leon:\n\nDuring this period, Filipino filmmakers were more successful in presenting some full-length pictures in living Eastmancolor, one of which was \"Ito ang Pilipino\" by J.E. Production. This movie was produced and starred by Joseph Estrada.\n\nTouted as the second golden age of Philippine cinema, this was the period of the avant-garde filmmakers. At the turn of the 70s, local producers and filmmakers ceased to produce pictures in black and white.\n\nIn 1972, the Philippines was placed under the martial law, and films were used as propaganda vehicles. President Ferdinand Marcos and his technocrats sought to regulate filmmaking through the creation of the \"Board of Censors for Motion Pictures\" (BCMP). Prior to the start of filming, a finished script was required to be submitted to the Board and incorporate the \"ideology\" of the New Society Movement such as, a new sense of discipline, uprightness and love of country. Annual festivals were revived, and the \"Bomba\" films as well as political movies critical of the Marcos administration were banned.\n\n\"Maharlika\" was a 1971 film banned by then-first lady Imelda Marcos because it starred actress Dovie Beams, who was allegedly Ferdinand Marcos' mistress. The producer of the film was Luis Nepomuceno, son of Filipino filmmaker Jose Nepomuceno. The company that produced the film went bankrupt, as the banned screening prevented them from recouping production costs. In pity, Imelda Marcos offered loans to the company through government banks. However, the bank would then go on to foreclose the film company.\n\nThe film portrayed the story of Ferdinand Marcos' life in the Philippine Military. There have been allegations that the film was propaganda intended to portray Marcos as a war hero who fought against the Japanese in World War II. Although the film was banned, it was allowed to make its cinematic debut in 1987, after the EDSA Revolution.\n\nIn spite of the censorship, the exploitation of sex and violence onscreen continued to assert itself. Under martial law, action films usually append an epilogue like claims that social realities depicted had been wiped out with the establishment of the New Society. The notorious genre of sex or \"bomba\" films still existed but in a milder, less overt way like female stars swimming in their underwear or taking a bath in their chemise, labeled as the \"wet look\". An example of the trend was the 1974 hit movie \"Ang Pinakamagandang Hayop sa Balat ng Lupa\" (The Most Beautiful Animal on the Face of the Earth) which featured former Miss Universe Gloria Díaz and filmed in the famed Sicogon Island in Carles, Iloilo.\n\nIn spite of the presence of censorship, this period paved way to the ascendancy of a new breed of directors. Some of the notable films made by these new crop of filmmakers were:\n\n\nIn 1977, an unknown Filipino filmmaker going by his pseudonym Kidlat Tahimik, made a film entitled \"Mababangong Bangungot (Perfumed Nightmare)\", which won the International Critic's Prize in the Berlin Film Festival that same year. Out of short film festivals sponsored by the University of the Philippines Film Center and by the Experimental Cinema of the Philippines, young filmmakers joined Kidlat Tahimik by distancing themselves from the traditions of mainstream cinema. Nick Deocampo’s \"Oliver\" (1983) and Raymond Red's \"Ang Magpakailanman\" (\"The Eternal\", 1983) have received attention in festivals abroad.\n\nIn 1981, as mandated by Executive Order No. 640-A, the Film Academy of the Philippines was enacted, serving as the umbrella organization that oversees the welfare of various guilds of the movie industry and gave recognition to the artistic and technical excellence of the performances of its workers and artists. The same year, Viva Films was established and began its rise as a production company.\n\nDuring the closing years of martial rule, a number of films defiant of the Marcos dictatorship were made. Films such as Marilou Diaz-Abaya’s \"Karnal\" implicitly depicted this defiance in the film's plot, wherein patricide ended a tyrannical father's domination. In the same year, Mike de Leon's \"Sister Stella L.\", a movie about oppression and tyranny was shown on the big screen. In 1985, Lino Brocka's \" (My Country: GTip the Knife's Edge)\" depicted images of torture, incarceration, struggles and oppression. During this period, the Philippines ranked among the top 10 film-producing countries in the world, with an annual output of more than 300 movies.\n\nThe Philippines' most political filmmaker was Lino Brocka (1939-1991). His works such as \"Maynila: Sa mga Kuko ng Liwanag\" (1975) and \"Orapronobis\" (1989) were considered as the opening and the end of the golden age of film in the country. Brocka's works were committed to an anti-Marcos, anti-authoritarian type of politics and highly valued the freedom of artistic expression. He contributed in the building of a post-Marcos Philippines and was able to help topple the Marcos dictatorship through his active participation in cultural and social activities. His films told the story of the underclass' struggle, the dark side of a sprawling metropolis and featured poverty-stricken locations which were able to make a statement with regards to the Marcos' autocratic rule and human rights violations. He was also notably part of the group of filmmakers, artists and cultural workers that formed the \"Free Artist Movement\" which eventually became the \"Concerned Artists of the Philippines\". This group challenged the censorship practice that the Marcoses imposed on all artistic media.\n\nAround this period, most Filipino films were mass-produced with quality sacrificed for commercial success. Story lines were unimaginative and predictable, comedy was slapstick, and the acting was either mediocre or overly dramatic. Producers were antipathetic to new ideas, or risk-taking. Instead, they resorted to formulas that worked well in the past that cater to the standards and tastes of the masses. Teen-oriented films, massacre movies, and soft pornographic pictures composed the majority of the genre produced.\n\nThe film industry prospered and produced more than 200 films a year. Majority of them were \"pito-pito\" films, shot in seven to ten days and aimed at quickly recouping their minimal costs. Attendance in theaters rose and several productions became huge successes. New laws were also introduced that gave more rights to women, causing several female directors to launch careers.\n\nAside from competition with Hollywood films, the Asian Financial Crisis, escalating cost of film production, exorbitant taxes, arbitrary and too much film censorship, high-tech film piracy, and rise of cable television further contributed for the trimming down of production costs of film outfits that resulted to falling box-office receipts of domestic films, and the eventual precarious state of the local film industry.\n\nIn 1993, a television station ventured into movie production. ABS-CBN's Star Cinema produced \"\" in cooperation with Regal Films. Five years later, another television station, GMA Network, started producing movies. GMA Films released the critically acclaimed \"Sa Pusod ng Dagat\", \"Jose Rizal\", and \"Muro Ami\", which attained commercial success.\n\nThe dawn of this era saw a dramatic decline of the mainstream Philippine movie industry. Hollywood films dominated theater sales even more, and fewer than twenty local studio films were being produced and shown yearly. Many producers and production houses later stopped producing films after losing millions of pesos.\n\nThereafter, a new sense of excitement and trend enveloped the industry with the coming of digital and experimental cinema. Seemingly signalling this was the winning of the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival 2000 of Raymond Red's short film \"ANINO\" (Shadows). But truly pioneering this digital revolution was the 1999 digital feature film \"STILL LIVES\" by Jon Red. Many other digital filmmakers soon followed suit. Cheaper production cost using digital media over film has helped the rebirth of independent filmmaking. Hailed as the New Wave in digital form, this decade saw the proliferation of digital films by independent filmmakers with international reach and caliber, and the introduction of locally produced animated features. Production of action films is on a decline, and formulaic romantic comedies constituted the majority of mainstream releases. However, independent filmmakers spurred a renewed interest in Filipino movies through digital movies.\n\nIt was in 1999 that digital cinema was introduced in the Philippines but by then, the film industry was already dwindling in numbers. According to the records of the UP Film Institute, 122 films were produced in the year 1999 and 83 in 2000. In 2002, the number went even lower with having only 92 films then further went down to 80 in 2003. This decline in film production was attributed to the country's economic movement wherein the Philippine Film industry was considered as one of the heavily taxed industries in terms of equipment, materials and film stock and the imposition of a 30 percent amusement tax to be paid to the local government and a 12 percent value added tax to the central government. Consequently, the high production costs brought about by the high taxes caused ticket admission to also go up. Thus leading to people opting for a different and cheaper form of entertainment particularly in television.\n\nSigns of rebirth of the Philippine cinema arose by way of movies with inspirational themes. In 2002, Gil Portes released \"Mga Munting Tinig (Small Voices)\", a subdued movie about a teacher who inspired her students to follow their dreams; the movie also implied improving the country's education system. A year later, Mark Meily's comedy \"Crying Ladies\", about three Filipinas working as professional mourners in Manila's Chinatown but looking for other ways to earn a living, became a huge hit. Also that same year, Maryo J. de los Reyes made a buzz at various film festivals with \"Magnifico\", a simple film with universal appeal about a boy trying to help his family survive their hardships.\n\nIn 2005, the film industry saw the lowest number of films produced with only 50 films that were commercially released. However, the establishment of film festivals \"Cinemalaya\" and \"Cinema One Originals\" which are dedicated to digital films, the addition of \"Digital Lokal\", a digital section, at the Cinemanila International Film Festival, and the second offering of the .MOV International Digital Film Festival helped save the Philippine Film industry.\n\nIn 2006 and 2007, Filipino filmmakers started making movies using digital media. \"Duda\" (Doubt) is an example of how a man driven by an idea for a film, against all odds, can succeed in creating a significant statement. Writer/Director Crisaldo Pablo used a cast of friends and some professional actors, and with the use of a Sony VX-1, a Hi-8 camcorder, made the first full-length digital movie ever shot in the Philippines. Comments by Cris Pablo and casts in the 'making of' featurette on the DVD demonstrated how much dedication to vision played in this movie. \"Donsol\", by director Adolf Alix, made waves with his debut digital movie about Donsol, a fishing town and in the opposite, a sanctuary to endangered whale sharks. Other filmmakers of note include Jeffrey Jeturian, Auraeus Solito, and Brillante Mendoza with his 2007 Filipino version of Danish Dogme 95 and Italian Cinéma vérité, \"Tirador\" (Slingshot). Lav Diaz is a leading figure in experimental Tagalog films whose works include long epics about Filipino life, some of which run up to 10 hours often testing the endurance of viewers.\n\nAlthough Filipino digital films are made in almost no time and with meager budget, they are strongly represented in international film festivals. Numerous works of a new breed of filmmakers had their films seen at the prestigious film festivals around the world like in Berlin, Cannes, Venice, Vienna and Rotterdam. with several winning prizes and awards. Among the works included are \"Ang Pagdadalaga ni Maximo Oliveros\" (2005) by Auraeus Solito, \"Kubrador\" (2006) by Jeffrey Jeturian, \"Todo Todo Teros\" (2006) by John Torres, \"Endo\" (2007) by Jade Castro, \"Tribu\" (2007) by Jim Libiran.\n\nIn 2007, a Filipino short film entitled \"Napapanggap\" (Pretend) by Debbie Formoso, a recent graduate of MFA Master of Film Art at LMU Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, had a successful run in a number of US film festivals. Several other short films, including Pedro \"Joaquin\" Valdes's \"Bulong (Whisper)\", as well as documentaries, garnered international attention and honors.\n\nIn 2008, \"Serbis\" (Service) by Brillante Mendoza became the first Filipino full-length film to compete for Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival since internationally acclaimed director Lino Brocka's \"Bayan Ko: Kapit sa Patalim (My Country: Grip the Knife's Edge)\" in 1984. The same year, the first full-length animated Filipino film, \"Urduja\", topbilled by Cesar Montano and Regine Velasquez as voices behind the lead characters, premiered in local theaters. The film was done by over 400 Filipino animators, who produced more than 120,000 drawings that ran in 1,922 scenes equivalent to 8,771 feet of film. Later in the year, the Philippine movie industry took centerstage at the 6th Edition of the Festival Paris Cinema 2008 in France. About 40 Filipino films were shown at the film festival, with Star Cinema's \"Caregiver\" (starring Sharon Cuneta) and \"Ploning\" (Judy Ann Santos) as opening films. Filipino actor Piolo Pascual was invited by Paris Mayor Delanoe and actress Charlotte Rampling to grace the occasion. Before the closing of 2008, another full-length animated film, \"\", graced the bigscreen as an entry to the 2008 Metro Manila Film Festival.\n\nThe year 2009 brought the highest international esteem to a Filipino filmmaker when Brillante Mendoza was judged as the Best Director at the 62nd Cannes Film Festival for his film \"Kinatay\" (literally \"Butchered\"), about murder and police brutality. The film was notorious for being critically panned by Roger Ebert, a distinguished and world-famous film critic, who declared it the worst film ever to be shown at the Cannes Film Festival. His win was heralded by President Arroyo and his countrymen.\n\nIn order to build up and stimulate the film industry, some Congressmen and Senators recently have authored a number of proposals and legislations pending ratification by the Philippine Congress. Many of the bills seek to ease the multiple taxes on producers, theater operators and patrons. One of the bills, for instance, proposes to exempt from the 30-percent amusement tax on all locally produced movies classified by regulators as for \"general patronage\" or \"parental guidance-13\". Another bill seeks to exempt local producers from the 12-percent value-added tax (VAT) on imported filmmaking raw materials and equipment.\n\nSince the year 2009, the presence of box-office films in the Philippine Box Office has surged, with \"You Changed My Life\" starring Sarah Geronimo and John Lloyd Cruz generated ₱230 million, making it the first Filipino movies to breach the 200 million pesos mark. This started the commercial box office success trend in local Philippine Cinema.\n\n2011 is the most fruitful year in Philippine Cinema history as 3 films produced within the year (all from Star Cinema) landed in the top 3 of the highest grossing Filipino Film of All-Time. Vice Ganda's \"The Unkabogable Praybeyt Benjamin\" grossed ₱331.6 million in box office and became the highest grossing local film in the Philippines. \"No Other Woman\" grossed ₱278.39 million while 2011 Metro Manila Film Festival (\"MMFF\") entry \"Enteng Ng Ina Mo\", has a gross income of ₱237.89 million () and considered as the highest grossing MMFF entry of all time. However, \"Sisterakas\" , a Kris Aquino-Ai Ai delas Alas-Vice Ganda movie, replaced the title of \"Enteng ng Ina Mo\" and \"the Unkabogable Praybeyt Benjamin\" as it became the highest grossing Filipino film and highest grossing MMFF entry of all time.\n\nIn 2013, \"It Takes a Man and a Woman\", the third film of the \"A Very Special Love\" series of Sarah Geronimo and John Lloyd Cruz, made many box office records, one of which is being the current \"Highest Grossing Filipino Film of All Time\", replacing \"Sisterakas\". It made ₱375,024,507 during its theatrical run in the Philippines and ₱211,573,332 overseas, for a total of ₱586,597,839 worldwide until Vice Ganda's \"Girl, Boy, Bakla, Tomboy\" and Kris Aquino's \"My Little Bossings\" (both are MMFF entries) surpassed their local box-office record and battle for the first spot .\n\nIn 2014, Filipino master Lav Diaz's film, \"From What Is Before\" \"(Mula sa Kung Ano Ako Noon)\" won the Golden Leopard at the 2014 Locarno Film Festival. Its win was a highly regarded as the second Filipino film to be awarded at an A-list film festival in the world almost 20 years after \"The Flor Contemplacion Story\" won the Golden Pyramid at the 1995 Cairo International Film Festival. \"The Amazing Praybeyt Benjamin\", another Vice Ganda film, breaks his own record again with an estimated gross of PHP450,000,000.00. Meanwhile, the sequel of Kris Aquino's \"Feng Shui series\" is the highest grossing Filipino horror film.\n\nIn 2015, a new box-office breaking record has been set as \"A Second Chance\", the sequel of John Lloyd Cruz and Bea Alonzo's \"One More Chance\" earns PHP 556,000,000 worldwide surpassing Phenomenal Box-Office Star Vice Ganda's \"The Amazing Praybeyt Benjamin\". It is surpassed again by a Star Cinema, Viva Films-produced film \"Beauty and the Bestie\" still starred by the \"Phenomenal Box-Office Star\" Vice Ganda.\n\nThe mid 2010s also saw broader commercial success of films produced by independent studios, with Antoinette Jadaone's Cinema One Originals Film Festival entry That Thing Called Tadhana achieving commercial success upon its commercial release in 2015, becoming the highest grossing independently produced Filipino film of all time in under 3 weeks despite facing piracy issues online during its run.\n\nSeptember 2015 saw the release of Jerrold Tarog's Heneral Luna, a 2015 historical biopic film depicting General Antonio Luna's leadership of the Philippine Revolutionary Army during the Philippine-American War, produced by an independent outfit called Artikulo Uno Productions. Because it was independently produced, Heneral Luna initially fell prey to the commercial theater practice of dropping films after only a few screening days on the first week. But praise from critics and audiences alike, praising the film's writing, plot, acting, and cinematography resulted in a word of mouth campaign to bring the movie back to theaters. As a result, Heneral Luna become the highest grossing Filipino historical film of all time on its third week in cinemas. Similar word of mouth campaigns would allow critically acclaimed films like Antoinette Jadaone's That Thing Called Tadhana (commercially released in 2015) and JP Habac's I'm Drunk, I Love You (2017) to achieve broad commercial success even if they did not benefit from the large promotional budget and television cross-promotion enjoyed by commercial studio films.\n\nCensorship in the Philippines truly began under the reign of the Spaniards, who prohibited works that were deemed revolutionary. While they prohibited literary, musical, and visual forms of art, film censorship was included in the picture upon the American colonization.\n\nWhen the Americans took over after the Spanish–American War in 1898, a brief stint of Philippine cultural freedom after independence from Spain was halted. General Arthur MacArthur’s military censorship focused on repressing nationalism, along with the Flag Act of 1907. Because film in itself was only beginning to form at the time, motion pictures brought to the Philippines were tame, and film was not yet seen as an avenue for social and cultural subversion.\n\nIn 1929, the Philippine Legislature creates Act. No. 3582, titled \"An Act to Create a Board of Censorship for Moving Pictures and Define Its Functions\". The board consisted of 15 members that sought \"\"to examine all films, spoken or silent, imported or produced in the Philippine Islands, and prohibit the introduction and exhibition in this country of films, which in their judgement are immoral or contrary to law and good customs or injurious to the prestige of the Government of people of the Philippine Islands\".\" In 1930, The first meeting of the board was conducted in the office of then Secretary of the Interior Honoro Ventura, and the first president of the board was Teodoro M. Kalaw. Out of the 1,249 films approved, 6 had parts cut out. Two films were banned.\n\nIn 1937 the film \"Batang Tulisan\", directed by and produced by Philippine Films was set to be released, and controversies arose regarding its sudden ban. The cost of production totaled 16,000 Pesos, and the film 2 and a half months to complete. Four reasons were stated as to why it was pulled-out: Three are aspects of the movie: the priest portrayed in a villainous light, the use of a hypodermic needle as a murder weapon, the amorous scenes between a 10-year-old couple, and the fact that \"\"[the film] might give [the] youth certain subversive ideas\".\" The production crew argued that this was an example of foreign films being given more lenience, despite being as bad (or sometimes, worse) than local cinema. The novel adaptation of \"Batang Tulisan\" which was published in \"Liwayway\" Magazine, in contrast, was not met with the same negative criticism.\n\nIn 1938, the Board of Censorship was renamed the Board of Review for Moving Pictures, enabled by the amendment of the law by Commonwealth Act No. 305.\n\nIn 1942, the Japanese occupation of the Philippines led to what was arguably the strictest period of censorship the country has faced. The \"Eiga Heikusa\" was established to act as a Board of Censors, and introduced Japanese films with American subtitles. In light of Japan's desire to convert the Philippines into a willing member of the Greater East-Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, printed matter, radio shows, theater plays, and visual art were heavily monitored, leading to the hiatus of production for Philippine cinema until 1945. As a result, the country saw an increase in theatrical productions. Screen actors such as Carmen Rosales, Rogelio de la Rosa, Norma Blancaflor, Ely Ramos, Elsa Oria, Leopoldo Salcedo, and Ester Magalona, took to the \"entablado\" and were received well. Theaters showed \"bodabil\" (a malapropism of Vaudeville) shows where actors would perform a special number upon knowing that they were to be raided by the \"Kempei Tai\", signaling the viewers to flee.\n\nLiberation from colonizers and the regime of then President Manuel Roxas saw the creation of a new Board of Reviews for Moving Pictures, led by Marciano Roque, who would also become Executive Secretary under President Quirino. In months, the board reviewed 76 films, with only 5 being locally made. Due to the non-confirmation by the Congress of all 10 members of the board, it was reconstituted on October 29, 1946 with its 7 official members. The newly appointed chairman was Dr. Gabriel Mañalac, and the secretary was Teodoro Valencia. The board had grown to 12 members by 1947, having reviewed a total of 463 films for the year. 435 were foreign, and 28 were locally produced. By the time, the Philippines had 463 officially recorded theaters, with 71 of them being in Manila. \"Ako Raw Ay Huk\" (Dir. Ramon Estrella) is one of the films that was banned at the time, due to allegations of it promoting Communism.\n\nIn 1950, a Code of Motion Picture Censorship was instilled, further identifying what aspects were considered as censorable. Scenes that depict drunkenness as attractive, scenes that depict drug trafficking, and scenes that deal with sex and surgical subjects \"when shown to selected groups\" are some examples of scenes that were put under review. Foreign films banned at the time include \"The Moon Is Blue\" (Dir. Otto Preminger) in 1954, and \"Martin Luther\" (Dir. Irving Pichel) in 1953. \"Perlas ng Silangan\" (Dir. Pablo Santiago) was screened without edits, which spiked a protest from the Provincial Board of Sulu, claiming that it misrepresented Muslim culture.\n\nThe Citizens Council for Better Motion Pictures was established by in 1960, as a response to a \"grave concern over the general disappearance of the cherished virtues and traditions of the Christian way of life, the alarming increase in juvenile delinquency, and the deterioration of public and private morals\". In 1961, they lobbied for what is presently known as the Censorship Law (Republic Act No. 3060), which was approved on June 17, 1961. The law created an Appeals Committee, composed of the undersecretaries of justice, national defense, and education. This committee could revoke the decisions of the Board of Censors. Independent from the CCBMP, the still standing Board of Censors had grown to 24 members, and could now establish a system of classification which consisted of two categories: \"for general patronage\". and \"for adults only\". Jose L. Guevara was appointed by President Diosdado Macapagal as the new chairperson in 1962, and the board members appointed by President Carlos P. Garcia were removed, on account of their positions being \"midnight\" extensions.\n\nIn 1962, the board lifted the ban on mouth-to-mouth kissing, so long as it was deemed non-lascivious. In 1963 and after a long-pleaded appeal from the public, the board bans films that heavily play up violence and crime. \"Ang Manananggol Ni Ruben\" (Dir. Eddie Garcia) was a 1963 film heavily based on the story of Ruben Ablaza, who was convicted for the rape of Annabelle Huggins. The film was initially approved and quickly banned in September, but was screened again in December after being renamed to \"Ang Manananggol.\"\n\nIn 1965, \"Iginuhit ng Tadhana\" (Dir. Jose de Villa) is released, and is arguably one of the most controversial films to come out of Philippine cinema, in that it was able to set the tone of Ferdinand Marcos’ entire presidential campaign. The movie, which chronicled the life of Marcos, had reached the realm of politics, ultimately leading the appointment of Marcos to presidency. In August 1965, the film was approved without change, but its premiere in September was halted on the time of the premiere itself. An \"en banc\" of the film was requested by then acting chairman Rosalina Castro, raising much suspicion from the press and the Nacionalistas. Days after, then chairman Jose L. Guevara resigned from his spot.\n\n1967 onwards saw a relaxing of rules by the Board of Censorship, who started allowing more nudity and explicit sex. This led to the rise of commercial, pornographic \"bomba\" (taken from the term \"bombshell\", which normally included a scandal in Political public office) films, which persisted despite heavy criticizing from Catholic groups. These films usually depicted outright nudity and sexual scenes, cut portions from previously banned films, or the entire prohibited films themselves.\n\nThe rise of \"bomba\" films was attributed to the fact that movies tackled more adult, realistic themes. The ideal of a \"true Filipino\" was introduced. These films also brought in a new audience for Philippine film; the usual filmgoers, the teenagers who saw the films as \"hip\", and the youth, who used these films as a means for their own sexual awakenings, the educated, collegiate, and the working-class crowd. On another side, the larger audience of these films were the male devotees, who came to see the sex scenes and left as soon as the last one finished airing. Some films from this era include \"Ang Saging ni Pacing, Dayukdok\" (Dir. Luis San Juan; the movie was only approved by the board upon being renamed to \"Ang Magsasaing ni Pacing), Ang Batuta ni Drakula\" (Dir. Luis San Juan)\", Gutom\" (Dir. Danny Zialcita)\", Sabik\" (Dir. Angelito de Guzman)\", Laman sa Laman\" (Dirs. Lauro Pacheco, Jose Sibal)\",\" and \"Hayok\" (Dir. Ruben Abalos) among many other titles.\n\nWhile the non-ban of these kinds of films led to the liquidation of censorship committees for most countries, this was not the case for the Philippines, likely due to the demand in box office. On February 22, 1970, the theaters \"Pablace\" and \"Mayfair\" are picketed by protesters who went against \"bomba\" movies. In 1972, the Board begins its anti-sex policy, which was backed by the general public who deemed the films as \"attributing to the upsurge of crimes by minors and loose morality of youth\".\n\nPrior to the administration of Ferdinand Marcos and the declaration of Martial Law in 1972, policing films had been a matter which only went as far as censorship and the non-distribution of movies in the country. The Board of Censorship then had no right to take legal action against any film, director, actor, producing company, or theater that had violated any of its mandates. Cases like these were to be brought up to the local government, who had jurisdiction over legal matters.\n\nOn September 27, 1972, Marcos issues Letter of Instructions No. 13, which intended to further uphold morality in the youth through monitoring films. The letter stated 7 kinds of films that were not to be exhibited in any local theater:\n\n\nWhat made this proclamation different from those appointed by the board was that the government now had jurisdiction over bodies that were at fault. It was proclaimed in coordination with the Department of National Defense. In fear of legal action and prosecution, the board tightened their rules, banning 148 imported movies and 50 local movies which displayed negative acts. Films were expected to uphold objectives of the New Society through upholding moral values and ensuring that the ideologies shown did not subvert the peace of the nation and the mind.\n\nAside from the Letter of Instructions, the board had assumed three more rights apart from the right to cut scenes from movies: the right to (1) encourage, (2) warn, and (3) be consulted. Taking from the British Board of Film Censors, the board started requiring submission of the full script of a movie before it was slated to begin production. This allows the board to warn the producers of possible issues within the script. Due to this, there have been fewer portions cut out of local movies, with 163 of 173 films being approved for general audiences from September 21, 1972 to September 21, 1973. This also resulted in longer, more sophisticated films that wasted less shooting time and production cost. The divide between the government and filmmakers (and in result, the viewing public) became smaller as national responsibility was embibed in the art of filmmaking in itself.\n\nOn October 5, 1985, Executive Order No. 876-A was created to reformat the Board of Review for Motion Pictures, leading to the creation of the Movie and Television Review and Classification Board, which is still in power today. The board was created only for the purpose of classifying cinematic films and television shows. The board holds 30 members at any given time, with the first chairman after the Executive Order being Manuel \"Manoling\" Morato, who took office in 1986.\n\nThe board classifies movies into 6 categories, listed below:\nThere have been many controversial films in the Philippine film industry that have caused a lot of rumors and notorious comments from its film viewers because these controversial films tackle sensitive issues on politics, sex, religion, and social life. Some of these films were praised, almost banned or totally banned.\n\n\nAlthough foreign films were shown in the Philippines since the Spanish period, interest in the creation of local films was not given much attention by the Filipinos. However, the advent of Hollywood films during the American period sparked the interest of Filipinos and eventually led to the boom of filmmakers in the country.\n\n\nIndependent Filipino cinema, has existed for almost as long as commercialized cinema, but this type of cinema has not been recognized as much, and thus has few historical accounts. Many of the independent films show actual happenings in the society using authentic voices of the people, but oftentimes, these films have been suppressed due to its revelations about social and political realities or marginalized due to its cinematography. These films also sometimes offer valuable historical content.\n\nIn its early beginnings, alternative cinemas were documentaries about the Philippines. Jose Nepomuceno was first commissioned to make documentaries about the richest industries in the Philippines, and his most famous one was about the hemp industry. Other alternative films made during 1920–1955 include Old Manila, Tres Sangganos, Intramuros, Jose Rizal, March of the Time Series: The Philippines, and Woodcarving in the Philippines.\n\nAll of the films above were destroyed during World War II. However, in the film archives in Washington DC, only the old film titled \"March of Time Series: The Philippines\" by Louis de Rochemont survived\n\nFilm making halted during the Japanese occupation however, some documentaries and newsreels were made such as \"Laurel Review His Troops (1943), First Session of the National Assembly (1943), New Cabinet Organized (1943),\" and \"What Do You Think? (1943).\"\n\n1950s to 1970s saw the rise of the First Independent Film Movement when the production of short films had a substantial increase, and these short films were garnering awards locally and internationally. Furthermore, several film organizations were formed during this time such as the Film Institute of the Philippines, Film Society of the Philippines. Some of the alternative films produced during this time include El Legado, Soul of a Fortress, Mangandingay: A Place of Happiness, The Wall, Mababangong Bangungot, Masinloc, and The Survivor.\n\nThe 1970s to 1980s saw the rise of the Second Independent Film Movement where the films produced contained more of the personal creativity of the filmmakers, and films became more ideological.\n\nIndependent films became highly politicized in the 1980s with the Marcos dictatorship and the People Power Revolution. The filmmakers of that time sought to innovate ways of expression for their political films as they deal with social reality. Some of the famous independent films of that time include Ang Magpakailanman, Children of the Regime, Revolutions Happen like Refrains in a Song, A Legacy of Violence, And Rain Fell in July, Sugat sa Ugat, The Arrogance of Power, Signos, Kalawang, Sa Maynila, Ynang Bayan: To be a Woman is to Live at a Time of War, I am a Furious Yellow, Perfumed Nightmare, Isang Munting Lupa, and Bayani.\n\nCurrently, there are a few Filipino film festivals that support independent Filipino films such as Cinemalaya and CineFilipino. These are annual film festivals that screens, invests, promotes, and awards independent Filipino films.\n\nOver the years, Filipino films have been recognized not only in their own country, but also globally in different countries. Competing with international films, Filipino films have earned many different rewards such as the Golden Lion in the 2016 Venice Film Festival won by \"Ang Babaeng Humayo\" (\"The Woman Who Left\") by Lav Diaz, the Audience Choice Award in the Tokyo International Film Festival won by \"Die Beautiful\" by Jun Lana, or the Silver Bear Alfred Bauer Prize at the 66th Berlin International Film Festival won by \"Hele sa Hiwagang Hapis\" (\"A Lullaby to the Sorrowful Mystery\") also by Lav Diaz. All these films were granted these awards in the year of 2016 among many other Philippine films. In the years before, other films equally gaining recognition internationally include \"Pamilya Ordinaryo\" by Eduardo Roy Jr.; \"Toto\" by John Paul Su; \"Taklub\" by Brillante Mendoza; \"Metro Manila\" by Sean Ellis; and \"Foster Child\" by Brillante Mendoza.\n\nNotable local film associations and groups include:\n\nThe Metro Manila Film Festival is an annual film festival held in Metro Manila, Philippines. The festival takes place from Christmas Day (December 25) and concludes at the first weekend on January of the following year. The MMFF has taken place every year since its inception in 1975. The 2016 event was the 42nd festival in its history. Throughout the festival, only Filipino Films, which are approved by the jurors of the MMFF, are shown in cinemas. No foreign films are shown in Metro Manila cinemas during the festival (except IMAX, 4DX, and Christie laser-projection powered theaters). This has been a tradition ever since the establishment of the festival's precursor, “Manila Film Festival” in 1966 by former Manila Mayor Antonio Villegas. The festival is accompanied with an awards ceremony. Over the years, films such as , One More Try, Walang Forever, and Sunday Beauty Queen have received the Best Picture Award.\n\nThe Pista ng Pelikulang Filipino (or PPP) is a film festival held in theaters nationwide. Its inaugural season was held on August 16–22, 2017, coinciding with the Buwan ng Wika. Similar to the Metro Manila Film Festival, foreign movies will not be shown in theaters (except IMAX, 4DX, and Christie laser-projection powered theaters) and films approved by the jury will be shown. It is organized by the Film Development Council of the Philippines in association with theaters nationwide.\n\nThe inaugural awardees in the competition include: Mikhail Red's Birdshot (Critic's Choice), Victor Villanueva's Patay na si Hesus (Jury's Choice) and Jason Paul Laxamana's 100 Tula Para Kay Stella (Audience Choice).\n\nThe Film Academy of the Philippines was established in 1981 and is considered as the Philippine counterpart of the United States' Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. It serves as the general organization of the various film-related guilds in the country that help in the organizing and supervising of film activities.\n\nEstablished in February 27, 1970, it serves as an \"educational, cultural and professional organization of cinematographers\".\n\nFormed in June 7, 2002, the Film Development Council of the Philippines can be found under the Office of the President. It ensures that the economic, cultural and educational aspects of film are represented locally and internationally.\n\nThe National Film Archives of the Philippines houses the history of Philippine Cinema and protects the country's cultural legacy in film through the preservation, retrieval, and restoration of film negatives, prints and other film related material and promotes these to provide a wider appreciation of the cinema history by making them available to the public.\n\nThe Movie Workers Welfare Foundation Inc. or MOWELFUND was organized and established in 1974 by former President Joseph E. Estrada who was then president of the Philippine Motion Picture Producers Association (PMPPA). Its primary purpose is to provide aid to movie workers such as medical, livelihood and housing benefits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34569594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34569594", "title": "Cross FM", "text": "Cross FM\n\n\n\n\n\n\nsource:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36707928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36707928", "title": "Face control", "text": "Face control\n\nFace control refers to the policy of upscale nightclubs, casinos, restaurants and similar establishments to strictly restrict entry based on a bouncer's snap judgment of the suitability of a person's looks, money, style or attitude, especially in Russia and other former Soviet countries such as Ukraine. The term \"face control\" comes from the fact that establishments are attempting to use exclusivity to preserve their public \"face\".\n\nAlthough a similar \"velvet rope\" policy exists in other countries, aiming to admit the right mix of \"beautiful people\" and keep out boring or unattractive would-be patrons, the Russian version is considered particularly harsh and unforgiving by Western standards.\n\nThe rare occasional use of this term in English can be considered a linguistic reborrowing via the Russian pseudo-anglicism фейсконтроль (\"feiskontrol\").\n\nGoscilo notes that, as the more upscale establishments are \"temples of unbridled self-presentation-masquerading-as-pleasure,\" wealth is not enough to guarantee admission; a wealthy person who lacks the proper respect, culture, sartorial elegance, prettiness, or impressively expensive model car may nonetheless be denied admission. Face control, since it requires discernment, is considered an art, with Moscow only having about ten truly excellent face controllers. \n\nSome establishments only practice face control on Fridays and Saturdays, so customers unable to meet the bouncer's standards can come at other times. In Moscow, stricter face control tends to be implemented as the evening progresses, so people can also avoid it by coming early for dinner, before the bouncers are posted. As foreigners are sometimes preferred, speaking English has also been noted as helpful in getting through face control. Simon Richmond advises, \"Arrive in a small group, preferably with more men than women\" and to smile to \"Show the bouncer that you are going to enhance the atmosphere inside.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38110780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38110780", "title": "Fijit Friends", "text": "Fijit Friends\n\nFijit Friends were a toy directed toward girls created by Mattel, Radica Games and Girl Tech. They made their debut in July 2011 at the New York Toy Fair and are similar to the famous toy Furby. Their names are Logan (Voiced by Taylor Hawn) (blue, sporty), Serafina (Voiced by Cassandra Lee Morris) (pink, sweetie-pie), Willa (Voiced by Sirena Irwin) (purple, trend-setting) and Sage (Voiced by Brianne Brozey) (green, adventurous). As of 2016, it seems as if the line has been discontinued, as no new products have been released since 2013. The former web address redirects to mattel’s Customer service website.\n\nAdditional releases in the line are Fijit Newbies, Fijit Yippits, and Shimmies. Fijit Friends and Newbies interact with each other and Yippits can learn tricks, and make a yap or bark sound similar to a small dog. A new toy has been released to the family, the Shimmies, which first came out in 2013.\n\nIn 2012, the Fijit Friends Interactive Figures was awarded \"Girl Toy of the Year\" title at the 12th Annual Toy of the Year Awards, which is held at the American International Toy Fair in New York City.\n"}
{"id": "484951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484951", "title": "Filí", "text": "Filí\n\nA filí was a member of an elite class of poets in Ireland, up until the Renaissance.\n\nThe word \"file\" is thought to derive from the Proto-Celtic \"*widluios\", meaning \"seer, one who sees\" (attested on the Gaulish inscription from Larzac as \"uidluias\", which is the feminine genitive singular form), derived ultimately from the verb \"*widlu-\", \"to see\". This may suggest that the filí were originally prophetic poets, who foretold the future in the form of verse or riddle, rather than simply poets.\n\nAccording to the \"Textbook of Irish Literature\", by Eleanor Hull:\n\nThe fili maintained an oral tradition that predated the Christianisation of Ireland. In this tradition, poetic and musical forms are important not only for aesthetics, but also for their mnemonic value. The tradition allowed plenty of room for improvisation and personal expression, especially in regard to creative hyperbole and clever kenning. However, the culture placed great importance on the fili's ability to pass stories and information down through the generations without making changes in those elements that were considered factual rather than embellishment.\n\nIn this manner, a significant corpus of pre-Christian myth and epic literature remained largely intact many centuries into the Christian era. Much of it was first recorded in writing by scholarly Christian monks. The synergy between the rich and ancient indigenous oral literary tradition and the classical tradition resulted in an explosion of monastic literature that included epics of war, love stories, nature poetry, saint tales and so forth which collectively resulted in the largest corpus of non-Latin literature seen in Europe since Ancient Greece.\n\nThe ultimate accommodation of Christianity within Irish Gaelic society resulted in a strain on the resources of the Chiefs and in that they were required to provide land and titles for both fili and bishop alike. Consequently, a decision was made in the 6th century to limit the number of fili to certain families who were respected and believed to be poets as a birthright. The greatest of these families included the Ó Dálaigh (O'Daly), several of whom were accorded the rank of 'chief ollamh of poetry of all Ireland,' and O'hUiginn (O'Higgins) who were hereditary filí in more than one Gaelic house such as O'Conor Slighit, The MacDermotts, The McDonagh and O'Doherty. The Ó Maol Chonaire were chiefly Ollamhs of the Síol Muireadhaigh, the Ó Conchubhair Donn and the MacDermot of Moylurg, although this family was also associated with Ulster and spread from Connacht into the courts of Munster and Leinster. Finally the Ó Cléirighs who served the O'Donnel chieftains of Tír Connell.\n\nThe hereditary poets that were a fixture of court life in medieval Ireland serving as entertainers, advisors and genealogists maintained practices of and enjoyed a similar status as the pre-Christian fili. But from the 12th century onwards, Anglo-Norman elements had increasing influence on Irish society. As Gaelic culture waned, these folk became increasingly involved with written literature and such non-native traditions as heraldry. Nonetheless in Gaelic society the chief filí of the province, or Ollamh, was seen as equal status to the Ard-rí, or High King. This high social status existed right into Elizabethan times, when English nobility were horrified to see the Gaelic chieftains not just eating at the same table as their poets, but often from the same dish. Eventually classical literature and the Romantic literature that grew from the troubadour tradition of the langue d'oc superseded the material that would have been familiar to the ancient fili.\n\nMany manuscripts preserving the tales once transmitted by the fili have survived. This literature contributes much to the modern understanding of druids, Celtic religion and the Celtic world in general.\n\nBesides its value to historians, this canon has contributed a great deal to modern literature beginning with retellings by William Butler Yeats and other authors involved with the Celtic Revival. Soon after, James Joyce drew from material less explicitly. Now fantasy literature and art draws heavily from these tales and characters such as Cúchulainn, Finn McCool and the Tuatha Dé Danann are relatively familiar.\n\nThrough such traditional musicians as Turlough O'Carolan (who died in 1738 and is often lauded as \"the last of the bards\") and countless of his less-known or anonymous colleagues, the musical tradition of the fili has made its way to contemporary ears via artists such as Planxty, The Chieftains, and The Dubliners.\n\nIn their subject matter and techniques, the seanachie are considered the inheritors of the ancient Irish tradition of oral literature.\n\nThe modern Irish and Scottish Gaelic words for \"poet\" are derived from \"fili\".\n\n\nFinally, practitioners of Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism are working to reconstruct trance and visionary techniques that were used by the \"filid\", such as \"imbas forosnai\" and aspects of the \"tarbhfeis\" ritual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29751195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29751195", "title": "Geo Corporation", "text": "Geo Corporation\n\n"}
{"id": "47228339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47228339", "title": "Harbinger (comics)", "text": "Harbinger (comics)\n\nHarbinger, in comics, may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3424694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3424694", "title": "Henry Burr", "text": "Henry Burr\n\nHenry Burr (January 15, 1882 – April 6, 1941) was a Canadian singer, radio performer and producer. He was born Harry Haley McClaskey and used Henry Burr as one of his many pseudonyms, in addition to Irving Gillette, Henry Gillette, Alfred Alexander, Robert Rice, Carl Ely, Harry Barr, Frank Knapp, Al King, and Shamus McClaskey. He produced more than 12,000 recordings, by his own estimate, including \"Just a Baby's Prayer at Twilight\", \"Till We Meet Again\" with Albert Campbell, \"The Song That Stole My Heart Away\", \"M-O-T-H-E-R\", and \"Beautiful Ohio\". A tenor, he performed as a soloist and in duets, trios and quartets.\n\nBorn in the border town of St. Stephen, New Brunswick, Canada, Harry McClaskey was the son of a candy and tobacco store owner, A. A. McClaskey. His mother was the former Ida Connors and he was the youngest of four children. His vocal talents were recognized early and by the age of 5 he was performing publicly in St. Stephen. At age 10 he was the mascot for the Saint John Bicycle and Athletic Club in the nearby city of Saint John, singing \"Her Eyes Don't Shine Like Diamonds\" and at age 13 he was performing onstage as a boy tenor with the Artillery Band in Saint John. The family had moved to Saint John by this time. Perhaps doubting that he could make a career in music, he later attended Mt. Allison Academy in Sackville, New Brunswick, and afterwards worked for his father. On April 14, 1901, he appeared at the opera house in Saint John in his first notable concert with the Scottish soprano Jessie MacLachlan. On September 30, 1901 he was discovered by the Metropolitan Opera baritone Giuseppe Campanari who was in Saint John to perform at the St. John Opera House. Campanari insisted that McClaskey go to New York for musical training.\n\n Emboldened by Campanari's endorsement, McClaskey ventured to New York in 1902, where he began lessons and sang with the Grace Methodist Episcopal Church choir. He eventually rose to tenor soloist for the choir. His teachers included John Dennis Meehan (or Mehan) and Kate Stella Burr, from whom he would adopt his stage name in her honor.\n\nIt was around 1902 that he started to make recordings with Columbia Records and he used the name Henry Burr at that time. He arrived at a particularly opportune time for Columbia, as their star tenor, George J. Gaskin, was in the final years of his career. Burr started recording for Edison Records in November 1904 under the name Irving Gillette. Disagreements with company executives resulted in his no longer recording for Edison after October 1914. He first recorded with Victor on January 4, 1905, and the recordings were released that March. On April 7, 1905 he recorded Egbert Van Alstyne's \"In the Shade of the Old Apple Tree\" which proved to be popular. It was also recorded by Billy Murray the same year. Burr proved to be a successful artist, recording thousands of songs for various labels under various names. He would record with Leeds Talk-O-Phone and the American Record Company as well. His recordings also appear on International Record Company and department store labels such as Vim Records.\n\nIn 1906, Burr joined the Columbia Male Quartet, which was recording for the Columbia Record Company, as second tenor under the management of Frank C. Stanley. They were later renamed the Peerless Quartet when they moved to the Victor label. When Stanley died in 1910, Burr took over management of the group. It continued on as a popular recording and live group (with various personnel and name changes over the years) until 1928, when it disbanded. Burr was also a member of the Metropolitan Trio and the Manhattan Mixed Trio, both of which featured him with Frank C. Stanley and Elise Stevenson. In 1921, he contributed music to a summertime review called \"The Broadway Whirl.\"\n\nBurr recorded in a duo with Albert Campbell. The pair had a succession of hits between 1911 and 1925, including \"The Trail of the Lonesome Pine\" (1913); \"Till We Meet Again\" (1919); and \"I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles\" (1919).\n\nBy 1915, he was in a comfortable position financially, and he began to seek ways to invest his money. That year, he formed the Paroquette Record Manufacturing Company with Fred Van Eps, based in New York City. The Paroquette system used vertical cut records and featured his own recordings and those of several other performers. As a novel introduction in a highly competitive market, the Paroquette recording technique was an early failure, and the company was out of business by 1917. Burr also tried music publishing, and he also shared ownership in a banjo factory with Van Eps for a short while.\n\nBurr performed live on the radio while broadcasting technology was still in its infancy. He made his first appearance in 1920 in Denver, Colorado using a microphone improvised from a wooden bowl with an inverted telephone transmitter. The broadcast was heard as far west as San Francisco. Burr is also credited with making the first transcontinental 'broadcast' by singing into the telephone in New York and being heard by diners wearing headphones at a Rotary dinner in California. Also in 1920, he signed an exclusive contract with Victor that lasted seven years. A lucrative contract, it made him (for a time) a wealthy man.\n\nBy the late 1920s, Burr's recording career was over. Electrical recording technologies had encouraged the crooner style of tenor vocals, as in the singing of Gene Austin and Al Bowlly. The commercial potential of radio continued to interest Burr. He became involved in programming, forming Henry Burr, Inc. in 1928 as a producer. He produced numerous programs for commercial radio networks into the 1930s. He originated the Cities Service broadcast, which he produced for two years.\n\nIn October 1929, he reportedly lost a substantial portion of his wealth in the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Within a month, however, he was appointed Director of the Artist's Bureau at CBS which had just been organized under the ownership of William S. Paley.\n\nAround 1935, he returned to performing on the radio as a member of the WLS Chicago \"National Barn Dance\" troupe, which was broadcast over NBC on Saturday evenings. He soon became a featured performer on the show, which he stayed with for five years until shortly before his death.\n\nHe suffered from throat cancer and died in Chicago, Illinois on April 6, 1941. Buried near his stepdaughter Marguarite in Mount Vernon, New York, where he had lived, he was survived by his wife, Cecilia. His widow died of a heart ailment in 1954 in Arlington Heights, Illinois.\n\nAlthough Burr is rarely heard today in mainstream musical culture, his 1922 rendition of \"My Buddy\" was used on the soundtrack of a \"Boardwalk Empire\" episode, originally broadcast on October 8, 2012 (Season 3, Episode 4, \"Blue Bell Boy\").\n\nNotably, in the 1960s, the famous ukulele-playing singer Tiny Tim frequently played Burr songs on stage and on such programs as \"The Johnny Carson Show\".\n\nBurr's 1915 recording of \"There's a Little Spark of Love Still Burning\" was used on Ernie Kovacs' \"Eugene\" special in 1960, and possibly on other Kovacs programs as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18917345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18917345", "title": "Heroes Over Europe", "text": "Heroes Over Europe\n\nHeroes Over Europe is an arcade flying video game developed by Transmission Games and published by Ubisoft. It is the sequel to \"Heroes of the Pacific\".\n\n\"Heroes Over Europe\" follows three pilots - an American (Tom Forester) who flies with first the British and later the Americans, a Briton (Danny Miller), and a New Zealander (Will West)- through fourteen missions during World War II beginning in June 1940 and ending in January 1945. The game features over 40 World War II planes and online support for 16 players in Dogfight, Team Dogfight, Survivor, and Team Survivor game modes.\n\nTom Forester is an american man from Cleveland, Ohio, who wants to become a pilot as his father (who fought in WWI against the germans in the Lafayette Esquadrille) as the WWII begins. He manages to be accepted in the No 79th squadron RAF which is sent to Western Alps, France. Forester meets Clifford Stone, his squadron leader and they soon become friends. During the training and their scout with their Hawker Hurricanes they find a formation of six Ju-88 German bombers, which are all downed by Forester before the arrival of three Me-109 German fighters, but they are all hit by Tom which go through the scout and finds two more Messerschmitt fighters: one is downed by Stone with an \"Ace Hit\" and Forester manages to do the same. Later, they keep on they scout mission and find three german convoys of trucks and armoured vehicles, which are all destroyed by Forester before the arrival of four Me-109 fighters (one of whom is an ace pilot) which are too shot down by Forester using Ace Hits all times. After the destruction of the last enemy aircraft the two pilots both come back to the air base.\nAfter the conquest of France, the No 79th Squadron is sent back to England, operating from Biggin Hill air base, south of London. One month later Stone and Forester are sent in a CAP mission along the south coast. After a new of a spotting of a german plane, the two pilots reach a convoy. As they turn to get back to the coast, they are attacked by a Me-109 fighter and five Me-110 light bombers which try to sink the three merchant ships of the convoy. All the germans are downed, but soon afterwards a flight of german Ju-87 \"Stuka\" dive-bombers attack the Allied oil and fuel tanks in the Dover's port. Another three flights of five Stukas each are destroyed by Forester who soon destroys several naval mines to make three merchant ships reach the port undamaged. The RDF stations later detect two formations of german Ju-88 and Do-17 bombers which are destroyed by Forester. AFter destroyen the bombers,Forester intercept the last enemy fighters helping Stone to destroy them all. The mission ends with both pilots coming back to base.\n\nThe next mission focus on another pilot: Danny Miller, a british man from Liverpool who entered the RAF as the war began. In his first mission, Miller has to intercept a flight of six Me-110 heavy fighters deployed as an escort for He-111 bombers which are going to arrive on the town of London to bomb it. After shooting down the six enemies, Miller attacks an entire group of dozens of enemy He-111 bombers. The player can destroy however many bombers they like, but the bombers will still reach the House of Parliament the mission will end and the bombers will drop their bombs on the Parliament and the Big Ben. The mission is later revealed to be a dream sequence\n\nThe third mission returns to Forester and Stone on the day of Adlertag, when the Luftwaffe bombed the british air bases: the duo are the only pilots able to take off and intercept the following waves of Heinkel He-111 bombers, shooting them down. at the same pilot, Forester has to destroy two Me-109 fighters which are attacking an observetion station. After the german planes are destroyed, the Allied pilots fly to Lympne air base and find it under attack from a squadron of twelve german Bf-109 which are strafing the british Spitfires of the No 610th Squadron. Then, a control call tells Forester that an unauthorised aircraft is trying to reach the English Channel, but the plane is later damaged to one engine by Forester with an \"Ace Hit\". After that, all the British planes reach Dover and attack the German formations of Bf-109 fighters, before the arrival of german bombers from inland. All the German planes are detroyed, and Forester returns to base with Stone and Wandsworth, a new friend of the No 610th Squadron.\n\nThe game received \"mixed\" reviews on all platforms according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "43171488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43171488", "title": "Hlípa", "text": "Hlípa\n\nHlípa is a 1989 video game developed by two developers from Prague. It is a maze game which is considered to be the most complex game for PMD 85. The game was later ported to Atari ST and Sharp MZ.\n\nThe game was create in 1989 by Karel Šuhajda. The idea of the game came from a discussion with his girlfriend in which he mentioned a word \"Hlípa\" as a possibility to be a shortening of words \"hlídané parkoviště\" (guarded parking). He later realised tha Hlípa could be some kind of amoeba. He decided to make a game about this creature. As an inspiration he had his older game 3D-Mikrotron and Knight Lore. He was helped by his friend Tomáš Švec who made a design of the game world consisting of 256 areas. Šuhajda created the programming and wrote a story. The game was programmed in DAM Assembler. The game was finished in 1989.\n\nŠuhajda started to work on a port for Sharp MZ-800 after the release of Hlípa for PMD-85. He decided to make the game colourful as the original version was black-and-white. The problem was that he had only a monochrome monitor and had to guess the setting of colours. He later admitted that he guessed these colours unsuccessfully. The Sharp MZ Version was released in 1990. In 1992 the game was released for Atari ST with better set of colours.\n\nThe game follows a member of Hlípa nation. Hlípas are some kind of amoeba. Their homeworld is a planet Danepa. They have to face another nation – Sivrams. There are two kinds of Sivrams. The first ones are not very smart but working Falmons while the other ones are intelligent but moveless Ploxons. If a Falmon touch Hlípa, he dries his body and kills him. On the other hand, if Hlípa touches Ploxon he breaks up. Hlípas decide to get rid of Ploxons who control the nation of Sivrams. The protagonist is smuggled to the capital of Sivrams deep in underground. There he has to find 6 ruling Ploxons and kill them but the whole city is a huge complex of corridors and finding Ploxons is a very hard task.\n\nWhen the player completes the task and kills the last of Ploxons, Hlípa disappears and is seen with a crown on head while standing on a platform resembling a throne. A text is seen congratulating the player and saying that the heroic act of the Hlípa shall be remembered by nation of Hlípas. When the Hlípa dies, its body will be spilt into a crystal bottle.\n\nThe game uses 3D isometric graphics with sophisticated animations. The player controls a character of Hlípa and has to find 6 crowns that represent Ploxons. He has to avoid Falmons who kill him. He can also use a complex system of canals. If player leaves Hlípa alone for a few moments it starts to run around by itself which can cause much trouble to the player.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40616334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40616334", "title": "Instant Racing", "text": "Instant Racing\n\nInstant Racing, known generically as historical race wagering, is an electronic gambling system that allows players to bet on replays of horse races or dog races that have already been run. Some Instant Racing terminals resemble slot machines.\n\nInstant Racing is a product of PariMax Holdings, a subsidiary of the Stronach Group. A competing historical racing product is offered by Exacta Systems.\n\nGameplay begins when a player deposits his wager, and a race is randomly selected from a video library of over 60,000 previous races. Identifying information such as the location and date of the race, and the names of the horses and jockeys, is not shown. The player is able to view \"Skill Graph\" charts from the Daily Racing Form, showing information such as the jockeys' and trainers' winning percentages. Based on this handicapping information, the player picks the projected top three runners in order of finish. Most players use the \"handi helper\" feature, which allows the machine to automatically make the selections on the player's behalf.\n\nPayouts are based on traditional pari-mutuel processes. The player's wager is divvied up into several \"betting pools\" for different winning possibilities, such as picking the winner of the race, picking the top three finishers in exact order, or any of the three selections finishing first and second. The machine then shows a video replay of all or a portion of the race. If the player achieved a particular type of \"win\", he receives the money from that pool, while the money in each of the other pools continues to accumulate until another bettor wins it.\n\nEarly versions of Instant Racing terminals closely resembled self-serve wagering terminals. Some later terminals began to mimic slot machines, with symbols on spinning reels corresponding to the results of the player's wager, and the video of the race occupying only a 2-inch square in the corner of the display.\n\nThe idea of historical race wagering was conceived by Eric Jackson, general manager of Oaklawn Park. He brought the idea to three major companies in January 1997, but found no takers. Later in the year, he met with Ted Mudge, president of AmTote, who liked the idea and asked Jackson to present it to experts at a February 1998 racing industry gathering in Maryland. The project gathered momentum from there. The Arkansas General Assembly took steps in 1999 to authorize Instant Racing by removing the requirement that simulcast races be shown live. A test deployment was launched in January 2000 at Oaklawn Park and Southland Greyhound Park, with 50 machines at each track. The machines proved popular and Jackson reported that as many as a dozen other tracks were pursuing approval to install the machines within two months of the test.\n\nThe Oregon Racing Commission approved Instant Racing machines at the state's racetracks in April 2003. Twenty units were installed at Multnomah Greyhound Park the next month. The terminals were moved to Portland Meadows in October. They were removed in November 2003 at the direction of the tracks' parent company, Magna Entertainment. The Commission in 2006 approved a request from Magna to bring the game back to Portland Meadows, but then reversed itself a year later under pressure from Attorney General Hardy Myers, who believed the machines to be illegal. The state enacted a new law legalizing Instant Racing in June 2013, and the game was relaunched at Portland Meadows in February 2015.\n\nInstant Racing machines were installed at Wyoming's four off-track betting parlors beginning in July 2003, after approval of the Wyoming Pari-Mutuel Commission. The machines' legality was soon called into question by the state Attorney General, and they were removed in 2005 following a court ruling. The Wyoming Supreme Court ultimately ruled them illegal in 2006, calling the game \"a slot machine that attempts to mimic traditional pari-mutuel wagering\". In 2013, the state legislature re-legalized Instant Racing. By December 2016, machines were in operation at 14 betting parlors across the state.\n\nThe Kentucky Horse Racing Commission modified its definition of parimutuel wagering in July 2010 to allow Instant Racing, and at the same time asked a court to review whether the change was legal. The court approved the changes and anti-gambling activists appealed the decision. Kentucky Downs installed Instant Racing terminals in September 2011, Ellis Park followed suit a year later, and the Red Mile opened a historical racing parlor in partnership with Keeneland in September 2015. The anti-gambling activists' appeal reached the Kentucky Supreme Court, which ruled in February 2014 that the Horse Racing Commission could authorize parimutuel wagering on historical races, but remanded the case for further proceedings to determine whether the terminals meet the definition of parimutuel wagering.\n\nThe Idaho Legislature legalized Instant Racing in 2013, and machines were soon installed at Les Bois Park, Greyhound Park, and the Double Down Bar & Grill in Idaho Falls. State legislators then enacted a ban on the machines in early 2015, claiming they had been misled about the game's nature, but the ban was vetoed by Governor Butch Otter. However, the Coeur d'Alene Tribe, which operates a casino that competes with the racetracks, successfully sued to invalidate Otter's veto, and the ban went into effect in September 2015, resulting in the shutdown of the state's historical racing parlors. A ballot initiative to re-legalize the machines, Proposition 1, qualified for the 2018 general election.\n\nThe Texas Racing Commission adopted rules in August 2014 to allow historical wagering at the state's horse and dog tracks. However, in November 2014, a judge struck down the new rules, finding that historical wagering was a new type of wagering not authorized by existing statutes. The decision was appealed, but the Commission, under strong pressure from state legislators, repealed the historical wagering rules before the appeal could be decided.\n\nVirginia enacted a law to allow historical wagering in April 2018, in an effort to make it economically viable to reopen the state's only horse track, Colonial Downs.\n\nOn October 29, 2018, the Nebraska State Racing Commission unanimously approved historical racing as it fell within the state's definition of pari-mutuel wagering.\n\n"}
{"id": "9674475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9674475", "title": "Keshet Media Group", "text": "Keshet Media Group\n\nKeshet Media Group, also known as Keshet (Hebrew: קשת, lit. \"Rainbow\"), is a private Israeli mass media company, which is headquartered in Tel Aviv.\n\nThe company has operated Keshet Broadcasting, a television broadcast operator and a franchisee of Israel’s Channel 2, since 1993 and up until November 2017. Since November 2017's licensing reform, it was rebranded in Israel as Keshet 12, a separate channel.\n\nKeshet shows original drama series, entertainment, current affairs, lifestyle shows, and foreign programs. Keshet’s global production and distribution arm is Keshet International, and the company's digital branch is Mako, one of the top three most-visited websites in Israel.\n\nKeshet was established in 1993 and is one of Israel's largest media companies. Avi Nir has been serving as the chief executive officer of Keshet Media Group since 2002. As a leading network in Israel, Keshet is responsible for shows including \"Prisoners of War\" (Hatufim) and \"Rising Star\" (Hacokav haba).\n\nKeshet was founded in 1993 when Israel’s Channel 2 was formed along with two other operators, Telad and Reshet. The company was started by Alex Gilady, the current president of Keshet and a former vice president at NBC International in London.\n\nThe first drama series Keshet produced was in 1996 called \"Bat Yam, New York\". That same year, Channel 2 became the most watched channel in Israel. \"What a Wonderful Country\" (\"Eretz Nehederet\"), a TV series similar to Saturday Night Live, aired its first season in 2003 and has since become one of the most popular shows on Israeli TV.\n\nIn 2005, a committee formed by the Second Israeli Broadcasting Authority selected two of the three operators to run the next phase of Channel 2, one of only two channels allowed to run commercials. Keshet came first and was awarded four broadcasting days per week. The other two days were awarded to Reshet. That same year, Keshet purchased the rights to \"Uvda\", an investigative and current affairs program hosted by Ilana Dayan. The show was originally launched in 1993 and has been the only continuously running program since the launch of commercial television in Israel.\n\nIn 2007, Keshet launched the Israeli version of \"Big Brother\" called \"HaAh HaGadol\". It became the most-watched television show of the year and remains one of the highest rated shows in Israel. In 2010, Keshet launched \"Hatufim\", which was also sold to Showtime and developed into \"Homeland\" a year later with Keshet as an executive producer.\n\nKeshet also runs the Israeli Music 24, Netex New Media, a Hebrew-language website directory, and the comedy outlet Bip, all integrated under news and entertainment portal, Mako.\n\nIn 2012, Keshet hosted the inaugural Innovation in Television (InTV) confab, a two-day conference in Jerusalem that included Ari Emanuel, CEO of William Morris Endeavor, and Josh Berger, Warner Bros. Entertainment U.K. President.\nThe third annual Innovation in Television confab was hosted by Keshet in 2015. Speakers included guests such as Richard Plepler, CEO of HBO, and the co-creators of “The Affair,” Sarah Treem and Hagai Levi.\n\nOn 28 November 2018, Malach, the organization of the Israeli Sign Language interpreters, appealed Keshet for ceasing interpreting its advertisements by an employee, who worked in Keshet as a video editor. Malach claimed that the employee has not studied interpreting, and it was impossible for Deaf people to follow her signs. Malach did not accept the response of Keshet, which stated that Keshet was permitted by the law to use also uncertified employee for interepreting. Shirley Pinto, a Deaf Israeli activist and the chairwoman of \"I sign, I am equal\", also requested the CEO of Keshet to replace the employee.\n\nKeshet has been selling formats under Keshet Formats since 2000. In 2012, Keshet International was established as the global production and distribution branch of Keshet Media Group. It has operations in the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States through a partnership with Dick Clark Productions.\n\nMako is an Israeli news and entertainment portal owned and operated by Keshet which offers video on demand content from Keshet shows, Channel 2 news programs, Bip (Comedy Channel) and Music 24 (Israeli Music Channel). In addition, it hosts user-created content in Haambatia, and provides written content covering news, entertainment, sports, music, TV, food, comedy, \"Home & Family\", \"Digital\", \"Spirit\" and \"Women and Men\".\n\nKeshet Broadcasting is one of two operators which ran the main Israeli commercial television channel, Channel 2, from 1993 to 2017, providing two to four days of broadcast per week. It shows original drama series, news, entertainment and lifestyle shows, and foreign programs.\n\nOn November 2017, Channel 2 closed down, while Keshet Broadcasting is rebranded and relaunched as Keshet 12, a new TV channel broadcasting 24/7, unlike Channel 2, which broadcast Keshet content for a few days per week.\n\n\nKeshet has also invested in the production of various films in the Israeli cinema industry over the past two decades. Keshet financed films including \"The Band's Visit\", \"Lebanon\", \"Dancing in Jaffa\", and \"\" by Shlomi and Ronit Elkabetz, which was nominated for a Golden Globe in 2015. Other films Keshet has financed include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44165655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44165655", "title": "Ladies Learning Code", "text": "Ladies Learning Code\n\nLadies Learning Code, now a program of \"Canada Learning Code\", is a federally registered charitable organization in Canada aimed at promoting collaborative, technological learning among women and youth. This program seeks to close the gender gap among those adept at technology by offering courses and workshops to empower and educate females in particular. \n\nFounded in 2011 by Heather Payne, Melissa Sariffodeen, Breanna Hughes and Laura Plant, the organization's first workshop was held in Toronto. After this, they began hosting monthly workshops.\n\nIn August 2011, they began an expansion of these workshops across Canada, establishing chapters first in Vancouver and then subsequently in more than 18 cities across Canada. To date, the organization has had 2,228 educational events since August 6th of 2011 as well as a total of 12,425 volunteers among all of the programs. They have also expanded programs to educate a larger number of adults and youth including \"Girls Learning Code\" \",\" \"Kids Learning Code\" \", Teens Learning code\"\",\" and \"Teachers Learning Code\" . Their permanent workspace is located at The Lab in Toronto, Ontario.\n\n\"Ladies Learning Code\" has attracted roughly 17,500 participants and held over 600 events such as workshops and courses since 2011. This program seeks to provide adults with the opportunity to learn technological skills such as HTML and CSS, Python, and Ruby. In addition, students can also learn web design techniques and familiarize themselves with online blogging sites such as WordPress. These events are open to all adults, regardless of prior experience with or knowledge of course material. \n\n\"Canada Learning Code\" claims a 4:1 ratio of students to volunteer mentors in each of the five programs, which allows them to learn through a more personalized experience and individual attention. Scholarships for select events are available to those in need of financial assistance. \n\nLaunched in early 2012, \"Girls Learning Code\" teaches girls from the ages of 3 to 12 years old technological skills through workshops, camps, and other events. In Toronto, hundreds of girls have participated and the program is expanding to new cities across Canada. \n\n\"Teens Learning Code\" offers those too old for \"Girls Learning Code\" yet too young for \"Ladies learning Code\" a program that is tailored to teens. It is open to girls from the ages of 13 to 17 years old and teaches various technological skills such as webmaking, gamemaking, and even app inventing. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3053047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3053047", "title": "List of quick-change acts", "text": "List of quick-change acts\n\nQuick-change is a performance style in which a performer or magician changes quickly within seconds from one costume into another costume in front of the audience.\n\nWhen Italian actor and performer Arturo Brachetti started his career in Paradis Latin, Paris (1979) he was the only one in the world since the legendary Leopoldo Fregoli (1867-1937). Guinness World Records lists him as the fastest and most prolific in the world. His last one-man show has been seen by more than two million people worldwide. The changing of his tailcoat from black to white live and close to public was a method invented by him and is considered his artistic signature.\nHis wardrobe consists of more than 350 costumes but evolves show by show. His performances often involve a series of characters, played consecutively one after the other, or in spoken sketches in which he plays all the roles interacting with each other.\n\nIn 2000 he was awarded the Molière Award, the highest accolade in French theatre, for \"The Man with 1000 Faces,\" where he performs 80 different characters in a two-hour show. The show sold out in Paris for several months in Theatre Marigny, Theatre Mogador, Casino de Paris, from April 2000 to January 2005.\nBrachetti has created and performed about 25 acts for television and 10 plays, produced by the National Theatre of Italy. The festival \"Juste Pour Rire\" launched his career in North America. In the Opera field he created a personal version of L'Histoire du soldat by Stravinsky, \"Peter and the Wolf\" by Prokofiev and \"Allegro, un po' troppo\" with the Symphonic Orchestra of Rai Radio Televisione Italiana. \nIn 2009 he was nominated for the Laurence Olivier Award in London for the show \"Change\" at the Garrick Theatre. He returned to Paris in 2009 at the Folies Bergere with his new show about Cinema. \nIn 2011, the French Ministry of Culture presented him with the honorary title of Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres Knight of Arts and Letters. \nIn 2003 Jeffery Deaver named Brachetti in his bestseller The Vanished Man. In 2013 and 2014 he was a judge in the French TV show The Best broadcast by TF1. An animated statue of Brachetti, changing costumes every 20 seconds, is displayed at Musée Grevin, the wax museum of Paris and Montreal. In September 2013 the Frech newspaper Le Monde dedicated him an interview in the first page. In 2014 Italy he received the title of Commander in June 2014 by Italian President Giorgio Napolitano.\n\nA real-life couple who own an on-line magic shop, Keelan Leyser and Charlotte Marie also perform a magic speciality act that is primarily a mix of dance and quick-change. They have performed in over 45 countries. In an appearance on \"\", they performed 9 changes between them in a period of four minutes, with the majority of time spent dancing to various musical bits related to each costume change. Leyser has a background in magic, while Marie has a background in dance.\n\nGerman - Armenian/Russian duo Sos and Victoria Petrosyan \"The New Generation of Quick-Change Artists\" are four times Guinness World Records holders in High Speed Costume Change Illusion.\n2007 - 16 costumes in 2 minutes in Germany. 2008 - 11 costumes in 1 minute in China. 2008 - 12 costumes in 1 minute in Italy and in 2011 they have done another Guinness World Record - 13 costumes in 1 minute.\n\nThey began in 1991 in Moscow. Magic Circle of Germany /MZvD/ decided to present Sos & Victoria as the Best Magic Act in 2007. Duo Petrosyan Awarded - The Best Magician of the Year and International World Merlin Award in USA for the fastest quick change act in the world. They are the only magicians in the world who have gained this Oscar twice. In Los Angeles they got a World Magic Award for the Best Cabaret Duo 2008.\n\nIn 2010 Sos and Victoria Petrosyan gained a Guinness World Record on the French TV Show \"Le Plus Grand Cabaret du Monde\" in Paris - 19 costumes. Sos is a trick producer and author of magic books and articles about the art of quick change. Sos and Victoria have been awarded by the Magic Circle in Germany the \"Best Writer of the Year 2010\" for the books: \"Women's Dress Transformation\" Part 2 and \"Men's Suit Transformation\" Part 1. All the tricks and transformation costumes used in their performances have been developed by Sos.\n\nIn 2011 they got to the semi-final of the German TV Show \"Das Supertalents\". In 2012 they performed in Beijing \"China International \"Great Wall\" Magic Carnival\" where 20 magicians, FISM winners, presented their dazzling performances in a theater for thousands of people, in a magical battle for three days. Sos & Victoria Petrosyan received the only one Gold Medal for Stage Competition. There was also 2 Silver and 3 Bronze Medals.\n\nSoul Mystique is an Australian duo of entertainers who became known in world variety theatre for their performances combining professional dancesport with a high speed quick change act. This duo is most famous for their two times appearance on the television show Australia's Got Talent in 2007 (series 1) and 2012 (series 6) – both times with great success as Grand Finalists, and placing 2nd runner up in series 6.\n\nIn 2008 Soul Mystique was placed amongst 10 of the world's best magicians by Fox Bio Channel – and was invited by Las Vegas veterans and legends of Magic, Siegfried and Roy, as the closing act for the historic event 'A Tribute to Siegfried & Roy at The London Palladium', where Queen Elizabeth and members of the Royal Family were in attendance.\n\nIn 2011, Soul Mystique was listed as the choice of entertainment for high society by \"Asia Tatler\" magazine. This duo was also two times 'Australian Entertainer of the Year' Finalist in 2011 and 2012 by Australian Event Awards. Soul Mystique is a partnership formed in 1996, between two former Latin-American dancesport champions, Gavin Skinner and Lydia Lim. This duo produces every aspect of their shows from costuming, props, to music arrangements. Soul Mystique is a registered trademark since 2009.\n\nLex Schoppi is a trick producer and author of magic books and articles about the art of quick change. He has been Author of the Year for his quick change books and several times Artist of the Year in Germany. His stage partner Alina is a Latin dancer. They work with long dresses and overcoats. Alina is the only woman in the world to master the split second costume change whilst still bound (the world fastest escape illusion).\n\nThey appeared in the Eurovision Circus TV Show with three winners from Heidi Klum's \"Germanys Topmodels\". He has an own tailor workshop for his magic and works for artists and stars. He created the opening ceremony of German Music Award Echo.\n\nLee Alex is a British born illusionist based in Istanbul, Turkey. He is winner of the Merlin Award \"Illusionist of the Year 2009\" presented by the International Magicians' Society. Known throughout the magic world for his \"Colour Change Waistcoat\", \"Snow Leopard Vest\" and \"Happy Birthday Waistcoat\". Lee Alex is the co-author and translator of the German book \"Quick Change\" by Lex Schoppi and the sole author of the book \"Time for a Change?\".\n\nVizage appeared in the 2008 semifinals of \"Britain's Got Talent\" where they performed a quick-change act with singing. They did, however, get three buzzers.\n"}
{"id": "15702428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15702428", "title": "List of television stations in Indonesia", "text": "List of television stations in Indonesia\n\nThis is a list of television stations in Indonesia. For 27 years, Indonesians could only watch one television channel, TVRI. In 1989 the government finally allowed RCTI to broadcast as the first private television station in Indonesia, although only people who have a satellite dish and decoder could watch it.\n\nFree-to-air television stations and networks in Indonesia can be received by using a UHF/VHF antenna. Since the enactment of \"UU Penyiaran No. 32/2002\" (Broadcasting Act No. 32/2002), terrestrial television broadcasts licences are granted only to local television stations. Any television entities that wish to broadcast nationally must affiliate with other local stations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "27889663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27889663", "title": "Los Premios MTV Latinoamérica for Best Pop Artist — International", "text": "Los Premios MTV Latinoamérica for Best Pop Artist — International\n\nThis is a list of the Los Premios MTV Latinoamérica winners and nominees for Best Pop Artist — International.\n"}
{"id": "51427443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51427443", "title": "Martha Asahi", "text": "Martha Asahi\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3797905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3797905", "title": "Model Aeronautics Association of Canada", "text": "Model Aeronautics Association of Canada\n\nThe Model Aeronautics Association of Canada (MAAC) is the official organization for all forms of the aeromodeling hobby, for model aircraft hobbyists living in Canada. Based in Burlington, Ontario, it was founded in 1949, and presently has over 13,000 members. MAAC is responsible for instituting official policies and regulations and guidelines. This includes radio frequencies, noise restrictions, and flying clubs. They organize flying events across Canada, and provide liability insurance coverage to its members.\n\nMAAC produces a magazine, Model Aviation Canada, which is included in the yearly membership fees, containing regional reports from elected zone directors, articles and model reviews from around the country.\n\nMAAC offers guidelines for the Wings program, teaching beginners how to safely operate an aircraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8777957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8777957", "title": "Music Circus", "text": "Music Circus\n\nActor and adventurer St. John Terrell was born in Chicago, Illinois. He started in show business with a carnival act and later starred on the radio show \"Jack Armstrong, All American Boy\". Referred to as \"Sinjun\", he served in the Philippines with the USO. When a visiting touring company of an Irving Berlin musical needed performing space, Terrell suggested bulldozing a large pit for a stage in the center and audience on sloping and rising seating all around covered by a tent. This became the genesis to his original New Jersey Music Circus in 1949. Although rejected by the USO, he used his back pay, war bonds and loans after the war, to do it himself. Inspired by Greek amphitheaters, audience members sat in folding chairs no further back than 15 or 16 rows. Although a full orchestra was used, the sets were simple and low to keep sight lines clear. Props were carried on and off by stagehands, in clear view, running up and down aisles. Within 8 years, 30 separate canvas-topped theatres had opened in the US. \n\nSt. John Terrell's Music Circus was an instant success, and launched a wide variety of copycats, with 40 \"tune tents\" scattered around the country, including Cape Cod, Massachusetts, Miami, Florida and Sacramento, California. While the modern musical theatre genre was being developed on Broadway by the likes of Rodgers & Hammerstein and Lerner & Loewe, the product being produced by most summer stocks remained primarily older works. The first Lambertville season included \"The Merry Widow\", \"The Desert Song\" and \"The Chocolate Soldier\", but nothing from the contemporary Broadway canon. As modern musical theatre works became more popular, music circus producers incorporated more of the contemporary works and fewer light operas.\n\nBroadway Sacramento's Broadway At Music Circus' 10-show season in 1951 included newer works \"Brigadoon\", \"Annie Get Your Gun\", and the seminal \"Show Boat\". Slowly, the population of music circus theatres around the country diminished, with Terrell's big top folding in 1970. As of 2001, only three theatres of the original design still remained: Broadway At Music Circus (Sacramento, California), South Shore Music Circus (Cohasset, Massachusetts), and the Melody Tent (Hyannis, Massachusetts, on Cape Cod), the latter two venues no longer producing musical theatre, but serving as concert sites. In 2002, Terrell's open air music circus model ceased to exist as Broadway At Music Circus lowered its canvas tent for the last time to make way for a new enclosed theatre-in-the-round—the Wells Fargo Pavilion. As a nod to history, the new arena theatre was still topped by fabric—a Teflon-coated fiberglass fabric manufactured by BirdAir.\n\n"}
{"id": "2905548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905548", "title": "Needle-through-arm", "text": "Needle-through-arm\n\nNeedle-through-arm is a magic illusion that was created by Bruce Spangler and later popularized by comedy actor/magician Harry Anderson. The trick can be performed as part of either a stage magic or a parlor magic routine. As the name would suggest, needle-through-arm relies on shock value to have a comedic effect.\n\nAlthough the trick popularized by Anderson is an illusion, other magicians, such as David Blaine, have performed the trick by actually sticking the needle through a fistula surgically created in the performer's arm.\n\nThe effect was originally invented by Bruce Spangler, who debuted the trick at the premier of the 1960 movie \"Macumba Love\" and later sold it under the name \"You-Do\nVoodoo\". Harry Anderson popularized the trick in the 1980s, performing it on television on \"Saturday Night Live\" in 1982 and selling his own version of the trick.\n\nIn presentation, the magician produces a hat pin, roughly ten inches long, and demonstrates that it is sharp by using it to pop a balloon. He then proceeds to sterilize the underside of his forearm with alcohol and, holding his arm so that it is not facing the audience, insert the needle through the skin of his arm. From the audience's perspective, this is not very impressive until the magician lowers his arm for the audience to see. The needle appears to pass about two inches under the skin. The new wound then appears to bleed, with the blood dripping down the magician's arm. The needle can be slid back and forth through the wound. After the needle is removed, the magician cleans his arm which can be offered for inspection.\n\nThe needle-through-arm effect uses a gimmicked needle and stage blood as well as a small quantity of adhesive, such as rubber cement or spirit gum. The bead at the end of the hat pin is hollow and made of rubber so that it can hold a small amount of stage blood. The needle is hollow and has a small hole in its side through which the \"blood\" can flow.\nWhen the magician appears to sterilize their arm, they actually coat their arm with a thin film of adhesive. When the magician is supposedly inserting the needle through the arm, they actually fold up two sides of skin over the needle that will stick to each other, forming a channel of skin that the needle can pass under. The stage blood flowing out of the needle lubricates the \"wound\" so that it can be slid back and forth.\n"}
{"id": "14035417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14035417", "title": "New Jersey Music Hall of Fame", "text": "New Jersey Music Hall of Fame\n\nThe New Jersey Music Hall of Fame was founded in 2005 in Asbury Park, New Jersey, with plans to construct a building in downtown Asbury Park or closer to the Boardwalk. New Jersey has a rich musical heritage, covering artists from Count Basie to Frank Sinatra to Bruce Springsteen. New Jersey has also played a role in the technology behind music; Thomas Edison invented the record player in the state in 1877, while Les Paul created the solid-body guitar.\n\n"}
{"id": "29360976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29360976", "title": "Old Jews Telling Jokes", "text": "Old Jews Telling Jokes\n\nOld Jews Telling Jokes is a web series launched in 2009 created and directed by Sam Hoffman and produced by Eric Spiegelman and Tim Williams for Jetpack Media, Inc. It has since gone on to garner millions of unique views over several original series shot in places like New York, Los Angeles and Boca Raton.\n\nIn 2010 OJTJ was published as a paperback book by Villard. Written by Sam Hoffman with Eric Spiegelman, it is subtitled \"5000 Years of Funny Bits and Not-So-Kosher Laughs.\" \"Its chapters consist of jokes and humorous anecdotes contributed by several Jewish personalities, including Ed Koch, Norman Stiles, John Pleshette and Annie Korzen. In the introduction Hoffman says his book \"categorized the jokes into chapters, roughly tracing the trajectory of the Jewish experience in America\".\nIn addition to the book, the OJTJ series has also been distributed on DVD, as two audio books (narrative and \"the joke-off\"), a successful BBC Four television series and was named one of the Top 5 podcasts on iTunes in 2010.\n\nIn 2011 OJTJ won an Audie Award for Humor.\n\nIn May 2012, OJTJ opened as an off-broadway play at the Westside Theater.\n\nThe BBC adapted the format for Some People With Jokes.\n\n"}
{"id": "12328272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12328272", "title": "On the Blog", "text": "On the Blog\n\nOn the Blog is a BBC Radio comedy series starring Caroline Quentin (\"Men Behaving Badly\"), Simon Greenall (\"I'm Alan Partridge\") and Andy Taylor (\"Red Dwarf\").\nIt is written by Kris Dyer, Dave Marks and Andy Taylor and is an Above The Title Production for BBC Radio 2.\n\n\n \"Original and twisted - the don't-miss comedy appointment of the week\" Radio Times \"That rare thing - a funny new radio sitcom\" Guardian\"The funniest sitcom since \"Ed Reardon's Week\"\" Sunday Times\n\n\n\n\"A very funny sitcom\" Sunday Times\"A laugh-out-loud delight\" Radio Times\n\n\n\n\"Cult comedy at its most under-appreciated\" The Times\"One of my favourite radio comedies\" Radio Times\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48267695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48267695", "title": "Onomichi City Museum of Art", "text": "Onomichi City Museum of Art\n\nThe museum has become notable on the Internet for being visited on a regular basis by two cats, whom the museum guards have to repeatedly turn away due to the museum's strict \"no animals\" policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4615617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4615617", "title": "Parken Sport &amp; Entertainment", "text": "Parken Sport &amp; Entertainment\n\nParken Sport & Entertainment A/S (or PS&E for short) is a Danish company listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. PS&E is a leading arranger of sport and entertainment events in Denmark and the Øresunds region. The group's primary activities are the Telia Parken Stadium, the football club F.C. Copenhagen and the Lalandia Holiday Center. In addition to owning F.C. Copenhagen, PS&E also owns the club's stadium Telia Parken. The company is also active as a promoter of an annual outdoor concert tour to major Danish cities, and owns a 15% interest in Euro Media A/S, which includes the DK4 television station. PS&E is headed by chairman John Dueholm.\n"}
{"id": "50774255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50774255", "title": "Pilipinas HD", "text": "Pilipinas HD\n\nPilipinas HD is a Philippine free-to-air television channel that broadcasts cultural programming. During its initial broadcast from 12 June (Philippine Independence Day) until 31 August, Trinidad rented a satellite space to all subscription providers to be able to watch by the viewing public free of charge.\n\nOn 1 September 2016, Pilipinas HD was launched on digital terrestrial television it signed a blocktime deal with Broadcast Enterprises and Affiliated Media, Inc. However, unlike its pay-TV counterpart, BEAM TV handles and supplies the channel's programming on a dedicated subchannel.\n\nThis is a list of programs to be aired on the channel's initial run:\n\n"}
{"id": "13252351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13252351", "title": "Retailtainment", "text": "Retailtainment\n\nRetailtainment is retail marketing as entertainment. In his book, \"Enchanting a Disenchanted World: Revolutionizing the Means of Consumption\" (1999), author George Ritzer describes \"retailtainment\" as the \"use of ambience, emotion, sound and activity to get customers interested in the merchandise and in a mood to buy.\"\n\nSometimes called \"inspirational retailing\" or \"entertailing,\" it has also been defined as \"the modern trend of combining shopping and entertainment opportunities as an anchor for customers.\"\n\nIn 2001, Codeluppi described it as a way for marketers to \"offer the consumer physical and emotional sensations during the shopping experience.\" And, in an article entitled \"Using sonic branding in the retail environment\" in the 2003 issue of the \"Journal of Consumer Behavior\", Fulberg described it as a way for retailers to entertain the consumer with a dramatization of their values.\"\n\nAccording to Michael Morrison at the Australian Centre for Retail Studies:\n\n“There is a move towards the concept of 'retailtainment.' This phenomenon, which brings together retailing, entertainment, music and leisure ... Retailers need to look further than the traditional retail store elements such as colour, lighting and visual merchandising to influence buying decisions. The specific atmosphere the retailer creates can, in some cases, be more influential in the decision-making process than the product itself. As goods and services become more of a commodity, it is what a shopper experiences and what atmosphere retailers create that really matters. Brand building is a combination of physical, functional, operational and psychological elements. Consumers will be willing to pay more for a brand if there is a perceived or actual added value from their experience of using the product or service.”\nShopper marketing expert Simon Temperley of Los Angeles agency The Marketing Arm, formerly U.S. Marketing & Promotions (Usmp), describes \"retailtainment\" as a \"live brand experience\" that frequently includes the use of \"brand ambassadors\" who \"converse with the consumer.\"\n"}
{"id": "11700140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11700140", "title": "SCS Software", "text": "SCS Software\n\nSCS Software s.r.o. is a Czech video game development company based in Prague, Czech Republic. It primarily produces simulation games for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux, including the \"18 Wheels of Steel\" and \"Truck Simulator\" series.\n\nSCS released a bus driving simulator, \"Bus Driver\", in 2007. Later in 2014, an iOS version of \"Bus Driver\" was released, entitled \"Bus Driver - Pocket Edition\".\n\nThe \"18 Wheels of Steel\" series primarily focuses on North America. The series was published by ValuSoft from 2002, with \"Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel\", to 2011, with \"18 Wheels of Steel: Extreme Trucker 2\".\n\nThe \"Truck Simulator\" series includes \"Euro Truck Simulator\", published in 2008, its sequel game, \"Euro Truck Simulator 2\", which was released in 2012. Both games focus on truck driving in European countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Czech Republic, Luxembourg, Italy, France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland. SCS Software has released a number of maps as downloadable content (DLC) for \"Euro Truck Simulator 2\". The first DLC, \"Going East!\", was released in late 2013 and includes a number of Eastern European countries; adding Slovakia and Hungary and expanding on Poland. A further map-expansion for the Scandinavia; including Denmark, Norway and Sweden; was released on 6 May 2015. The update also included licensed Mercedes-Benz trademarks and branding.\n\nFollowing the success of the \"Euro Truck Simulator\" series, SCS announced that the next game in the series would be \"American Truck Simulator,\" released 3 February 2016. However, it released early on 2 February 2016. American Truck Simulator currently covers the western U.S. states of California, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Oregon. The game features officially licensed American and long nose trucks; including models by Peterbilt, Kenworth, and Volvo. The game originally released with California and Nevada, with the state of Arizona releasing as a free DLC to owners of the game in June 2016 and New Mexico releasing as paid DLC in November 2017. Almost a year later in October 2018 the state of Oregon was also released as a paid DLC. Future states and map add-ons will be sold as paid DLC.\n"}
{"id": "7675267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7675267", "title": "Song plugger", "text": "Song plugger\n\nA song plugger or song demonstrator was a vocalist or piano player employed by department and music stores and song publishers in the early 20th century to promote and help sell new sheet music, which is how hits were advertised before good quality recordings were widely available. Music publisher Frank Harding has been credited with innovating the sales method. Typically, the pianist sat on the mezzanine level of a store and played whatever music was sent up to him by the clerk of the store selling the sheet music. Patrons could select any title, have it delivered to the song plugger, and get a preview of the tune before buying it.\n\nAlthough the terms are often used interchangeably, those who worked in department and music stores were most often known as \"song demonstrators\", while those who worked directly for music publishers were called \"song pluggers.\"\n\nMusicians and composers who had worked as song pluggers included George Gershwin, Ron Roker, Jerome Kern and Lil Hardin Armstrong.\n\nLater, the term was used to describe individuals who would pitch new music to performers, with \"The New York Times\" describing such examples as Freddy Bienstock performing a job in which he was \"pitching new material to bandleaders and singers\". In 1952 Ernest Havemann wrote: There are about 600 song-pluggers in the U.S.; they have their own union; they are powerful enough to bar all outsiders; and they command fees up to $35,000 a year (worth $ today) plus unlimited expense accounts. Their job is to persuade the record companies to use songs, put out by their publishing houses, and the radio station disk jockeys to play the records.\"\n\nSong plugging remains an important part of the industry. Record labels and managers will actively search for songs that their artist can record, release and perform, especially those who don't write their own material.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "6492232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6492232", "title": "The Big Red Adventure", "text": "The Big Red Adventure\n\nThe Big Red Adventure is a adventure game developed by Paolo Costabel for Dynabyte and published by Core Design for the PC in 1995. It was released for the Amiga computers in 1997 by Power Computing on CD-ROM.\n\nComing Soon Magazine praised the graphics and humour. Generation 4 gave it 35% while PC Joker gave it 36%.\n"}
{"id": "376228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376228", "title": "The Matrix (franchise)", "text": "The Matrix (franchise)\n\nThe Matrix is a science fiction action media franchise created by The Wachowski Brothers, about heroes who fight a desperate war against machine overlords that have enslaved humanity in an extremely sophisticated virtual reality system. The series is most notable for its two uses of slow motion, which revolutionized action films to come. \n\nThe series began with the feature film \"The Matrix\" (1999), and continued with two sequels, \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and \"The Matrix Revolutions\" (both 2003), all written and directed by The Wachowskis and produced by Joel Silver. The franchise is owned by Warner Bros., which distributed the films along with Village Roadshow Pictures. The latter, along with Silver Pictures are the two production companies that worked on all three films.\n\nThe first film was an important critical and commercial success, winning four Academy Awards, introducing popular culture symbols such as the red pill and blue pill, and influencing action filmmaking. For those reasons it has been added to the National Film Registry for preservation. Its first sequel was an even bigger commercial success, becoming the highest-grossing R-rated film in history, a title which it held for 13 years, until it was surpassed by the film Deadpool.\n\nThe series features a cyberpunk story of the technological fall of man, in which a self-aware artificial intelligence has wiped most of humanity from the Earth except for those it enslaves in a virtual reality system as a farmed power source, and the relatively few remaining humans who are free of that system. The A.I. agenda is to destroy all humans who are free, considering them a threat/disease. The story incorporates references to numerous philosophical and religious ideas. Influences include the principles of mythology, anime, and Hong Kong action films (particularly \"heroic bloodshed\" and martial arts movies). Consistent throughout are the concepts of inter-dependency and love.\n\nThe characters and settings of the films are further explored in other media set in the same fictional universe, including animation, comics, and video games. The comic \"Bits and Pieces of Information\" and \"The Animatrix\" short film \"The Second Renaissance\" act as prequels to the films, explaining how the franchise's setting came to be. The video game \"Enter the Matrix\" connects the story of the \"Animatrix\" short \"Final Flight of the Osiris\" with the events of \"Reloaded\", while the video game \"The Matrix Online\" is a direct sequel to \"Revolutions\".\n\nAs of February 2016, the franchise has generated $3 billion in revenue, making it one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time. In March 2017, it was reported that Warner Bros. was in early stages of developing a relaunch of the franchise with new films.\n\nThe series depicts a future in which Earth is dominated by artificial intelligence that was created early in the 21st century and rebelled against humanity. At one point, humans attempted to block out the machines' source of solar power by covering the sky in thick, stormy clouds. During this time, the machines and mankind were engaged in a massive war in which the machines ultimately emerged the victor. Having no definite source of energy, the machines devised a way to extract humans' bioelectricity and thermal energy by growing people in pods, while their minds are controlled by cybernetic implants connecting them to a simulated reality called the Matrix.\n\nThe virtual reality world simulated by the Matrix resembles human civilization around the turn of the 21st century (this time period was chosen because it is supposedly the pinnacle of human civilization). The majority of the stories in the \"Matrix\" franchise take place in a vast Western World unnamed megacity. This environment is practically indistinguishable from reality (although scenes set within the Matrix are presented on-screen with a green tint to the footage, and a general bias towards the color green), and the majority of bluepills - humans connected to the Matrix - are unaware of its true nature. Most of the central characters in the series are able to gain superhuman abilities within the Matrix by taking advantage of their understanding of its true nature to manipulate its virtual physical laws.\n\nThe virtual world is first introduced in \"The Matrix\". The \"Animatrix\" short film \"The Second Renaissance\" and the short comic \"Bits and Pieces of Information\" show how the initial conflict between humans and machines came about, and how and why the Matrix was first developed. Its history and purpose are further explained in \"The Matrix Reloaded\".\n\nThe \"Matrix\" series includes a trilogy of feature films, all of which were written and directed by The Wachowskis and produced by Joel Silver, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss and Hugo Weaving. The series was filmed in Australia and began with 1999's \"The Matrix\", which depicts the recruitment of hacker Neo into humanity's rebellion against sentient machines. The film was highly successful, earning $460 million worldwide, and becoming the first DVD release in the United States to reach sales of three million copies.\n\nThe film's mainstream success had backed up the initial idea of making a trilogy. The sequels, \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and \"The Matrix Revolutions\", were filmed simultaneously during one shoot (under the project codename \"The Burly Man\"), and released in two parts in 2003. They tell the story of the impending attack on the human enclave of Zion by a vast machine army. Neo also learns more about the history of the Matrix and his role as The One. The sequels also incorporate more ambitious action scenes and visual effects.\n\nWhile making the \"Matrix\" films, the Wachowskis told their close collaborators that at that time they had no intention of making another one after \"The Matrix Revolutions\". In February 2015, in interviews promoting \"Jupiter Ascending\", Lilly Wachowski called a return to \"The Matrix\" a \"particularly repelling idea in these times\", noting the studios' tendency to green-light sequels, reboots, and adaptations over original material, while Lana Wachowski, addressing rumors about a potential reboot, said they haven't heard anything, but she believed the studio might be looking to replace them.\n\nIn March 2017, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote that Warner Bros. was in early stages of developing a relaunch of the franchise, with Zak Penn in talks to write a treatment, and interest in getting Michael B. Jordan attached to star. According to the article neither the Wachowskis nor Joel Silver were involved at that stage, although the studio would like to get at minimum the blessing of the Wachowskis. Penn struck down the notion of a reboot or remake, stating he is interested in seeing stories set in the already established universe. Reportedly, one such story the studio is considering, is a prequel film about a young Morpheus. The previous month, Keanu Reeves said he would return to a potential new \"Matrix\" film only if the Wachowskis were writing and directing. In April 2017, Hugo Weaving said he would be open to returning in future Matrix films if the scripts were good and came with the Wachowskis' blessing, although he believed the producers would likely want a fresh start with a new cast. In March 2018, Penn said he is working on a revival of the franchise and teased the possibility of an expanded universe.\n\nThe following is a list of crew members who have participated in the making of the \"Matrix\" film series.\n\nIn 2004, Warner Home Video released \"The Ultimate Matrix Collection\", a ten-disc set of the films on DVD. It included all three films, \"The Animatrix\", and six discs of additional material, including the documentary film \"The Matrix Revisited\", the live action footage shot for \"Enter the Matrix\", and a promotional compilation of \"The Matrix Online\". For this release, \"The Matrix\" was remastered under the supervision of the Wachowskis and Bill Pope to improve its picture quality and make its coloring closer to that of its sequels. At the request of the Wachowskis, as they explain in a written statement that accompanies the boxset, each of the three films is accompanied by two audio commentaries, one by philosophers who liked the films, and another by critics who did not, with the intention that viewers use them as reference points to form their own opinion. A \"Limited Edition\" of \"The Ultimate Matrix Collection\" was also released. It encases the ten discs plus a resin bust of Neo inside an acrylic glass box.\n\n\"The Ultimate Matrix Collection\" was later also released on HD DVD and Blu-ray in 2007 and 2008, respectively. The HD DVD release added a picture-in-picture video commentary to the three films and the extras the original standalone DVD releases of the films had. The Blu-ray release presented \"The Animatrix\" in high definition for the first time.\n\nWhile \"The Matrix\" received largely positive reviews, and \"The Matrix Reloaded\" received generally positive reviews, the critical response to \"The Matrix Revolutions\" was mixed. One major complaint was that it did not give any answers to the questions raised in \"Reloaded\". CinemaScore polls conducted during the opening weekend, cinema audiences gave the series an average grade of \"A−\", \"B+\", \"B\" respectively on an A+ to F scale.\n\nThe \"Matrix\" films makes numerous references to films and literature, and to historical myths and philosophy including Buddhism, Vedanta, Advaita Hinduism, Christianity, Messianism, Judaism, Gnosticism, existentialism, obscurantism, and nihilism. The films' premise resembles Plato's Allegory of the cave, René Descartes's evil demon, Kant's reflections on the Phenomenon versus the Ding an sich, Zhuangzi's \"Zhuangzi dreamed he was a butterfly\", Marxist social theory and the brain in a vat thought experiment. Many references to Jean Baudrillard's \"Simulacra and Simulation\" appear in the first film. Baudrillard himself considered this a misrepresentation, although Lana Wachowski claims the point the reference was making was misunderstood. There are similarities to cyberpunk works such as \"Neuromancer\" by William Gibson, who has described \"The Matrix\" as \"arguably the ultimate 'cyberpunk' artifact.\"\n\nJapanese director Mamoru Oshii's \"Ghost in the Shell\" was a strong influence. Producer Joel Silver has stated that the Wachowskis first described their intentions for \"The Matrix\" by showing him that anime and saying, \"We wanna do that for real.\" Mitsuhisa Ishikawa of Production I.G, which produced \"Ghost in the Shell\", noted that the anime's high-quality visuals were a strong source of inspiration for the Wachowskis. He also commented, \"... cyberpunk films are very difficult to describe to a third person. I'd imagine that \"The Matrix\" is the kind of film that was very difficult to draw up a written proposal for to take to film studios.\" He stated that since \"Ghost in the Shell\" had gained recognition in America, the Wachowskis used it as a \"promotional tool.\" Similarities to the 1985 anime film \"Megazone 23\" have also been noticed, but the Wachowskis claimed to have never seen it.\n\nReviewers have commented on similarities between \"The Matrix\" and other late-1990s films such as \"Strange Days\", \"Dark City\", and \"The Truman Show\". The Wachowskis claimed no influence regarding \"Dark City\", but commented about it and \"The Truman Show\" that they thought it was \"very strange that Australia came to have three films associated with it that were all about the nature of reality.\".\n\nComparisons have also been made to Grant Morrison's comic series \"The Invisibles\"; Morrison believes that the Wachowskis essentially plagiarized his work to create the film. The Wachowskis have responded that they enjoy the comic but weren't inspired by it.\n\nIn addition, the similarity of the films' central concept to a device in the long-running series \"Doctor Who\" has also been noted. As in the film, the Matrix of that series (introduced in the 1976 serial \"The Deadly Assassin\") is a massive computer system which one enters using a device connecting to the head, allowing users to see representations of the real world and change its laws of physics; but if killed there, they will die in reality.\n\nThe first \"Matrix\" film features numerous references to the \"White Rabbit\", the \"Rabbit Hole\" and mirrors, referring to Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and \"Through the Looking-Glass\".<ref name=\"archive.org\"/\n\nMatrixism is a new religious movement inspired by the trilogy. A sociologist of religion Adam Possamai describes these types of religions/spiritualities as hyper-real religions due to their eclectic mix of religion/spirituality with elements of popular culture and their connection to the fluid social structures of late capitalism. There is some debate about whether followers of Matrixism are indeed serious about their practice; however, the religion (real or otherwise) has received attention in the media.\n\nFollowing the Wachowskis' coming out as transgender women some years after the release of the films, the first film and the pill analogy have also been analyzed in the context of the Wachowskis transgender experiences. In this case, taking the red pill and living out of the Matrix symbolizes exploring one's own gender identity, starting the transition and coming out as transgender, as opposed to a continued life in the closet. Lilly Wachowski has acknowledged this analysis by calling it \"a cool thing because it's an excellent reminder that art is never static\".\n\nIn April 2003 Sophia Stewart filed a legal complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California alleging that the idea of \"The Matrix\" (and the 1984 film \"The Terminator\") were plagiarized from her own film treatment entitled \"The Third Eye.\" The court allowed the lawsuit to move forward in 2005, but Stewart did not attend the hearing. In a 53-page ruling, Judge Margaret Morrow dismissed the case, stating that Stewart and her attorneys \"had not entered any evidence to bolster its key claims or demonstrated any striking similarity between her work and the accused directors’ films.\" Despite the ruling, the case became the subject of \"Internet legend,\" with many sources claiming Stewart had actually won the lawsuit.\n\nIn 2013 Thomas Althouse filed suit in California federal court alleging that ideas for the sequels \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and \"The Matrix Revolutions\" came from a screenplay he wrote called \"The Immortals.\" In a summary judgement for the defendants, Judge R. Gary Klausner stated \"The basic premises of \"The Matrix Trilogy\" and \"The Immortals\" are so different that it would be unreasonable to find their plots substantially similar.\"\n\nBy November 2003, \"The Matrix\" franchise had generated from VHS and DVD sales, from the video game \"Enter the Matrix\" (2003), from \"\" soundtrack sales, and from licensed merchandise sales. As of 2011, the franchise has grossed from all sources worldwide.\n\nIn acknowledgment of the strong influence of Japanese anime on the \"Matrix\" series, \"The Animatrix\" was produced in 2003 to coincide with the release of \"The Matrix Reloaded\". This is a collection of nine animated short films intended to further flesh out the concepts, history, characters and setting of the series. The objective of \"The Animatrix\" project was to give other writers and directors the opportunity to lend their voices and interpretation to the \"Matrix\" universe; the Wachowskis conceived of and oversaw the process, and they wrote four of the segments themselves, although they were given to other directors to execute. Many of the segments were produced by notable figures from the world of Japanese animation. Four of the films were originally released on the series' official website, one was shown in cinemas with \"Dreamcatcher\", one was shown on MTV, MTV2, MTV3, MTV4, and Syfi, and the others first appeared with the DVD release of all nine shorts shortly after the release of \"The Matrix Reloaded\".\n\nOn May 15, 2003, the game \"Enter the Matrix\" was released in North America concurrently with \"The Matrix Reloaded\". The first of three video games related to the films, it told a story running parallel to \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and featured scenes that were shot during the filming of \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and \"The Matrix Revolutions\".\n\nTwo more \"The Matrix\" video games were released in 2005. The MMORPG \"The Matrix Online\" continued the story beyond \"The Matrix Revolutions\", while \"\" allowed players to control Neo in scenes from the film trilogy.\n\nThe \"Matrix\" official website also provided several original Adobe Flash-based browser games.\n\n\"The Matrix Comics\" is a set of comic books and short stories based on the series and written and illustrated by figures from the comics industry; one of the comics was written by the Wachowskis and illustrated by the films' concept artist Geof Darrow. Most of the comics were originally presented for free on the \"Matrix\" series' website; they were later republished, along with some new material, in two printed trade paperback volumes.\n\nThe \"Matrix\" official website provided a free screensaver for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X, which simulates the falling \"Matrix digital rain\" of the films. The screensaver was reported to have a password security issue. The \"Matrix digital rain\" also inspired the creation of many unofficial screensavers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51342339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51342339", "title": "The Oxford History of Western Music", "text": "The Oxford History of Western Music\n\nThe Oxford History of Western Music is a narrative history from the \"earliest notations\" (taken to be around the eighth century) to the late twentieth century. It was written by the American musicologist Richard Taruskin. Published by Oxford University Press, it is a multi-volume work, but is shorter than the same publisher's \"The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", which is written by multiple contributors. \n\nThe \"Oxford History of Western Music\" appeared in 2005. A paperback edition in five volumes followed in 2009. It is available online, but is not part of Oxford Music Online, the portal which gives electronic access to the \"New Grove Dictionary\" (Grove Music Online) and \"The Oxford Companion to Music\". \n\nOUP had previously published narrative histories of music, although Taruskin was more influenced by Donald Jay Grout's work \"A History of Western Music\" (New York, 1960).\n\nThe \"Oxford History of Music\" was first published in six volumes under the general editorship of Sir Henry Hadow between 1901 and 1905. The first two volumes, written by H. E. Woolridge, were entitled \"The Polyphonic Period\", and began with the music of ancient Greece: these volumes dated quite quickly. Other volumes were reprinted as they stood, but Sir Percy Buck , who was also involved with the OUP's \"Tudor Church Music\", revised the first two volumes (1929 and 1932), and edited a new introductory volume (1929). The introductory volume included a contribution from Sylvia Townsend Warner. \n\nThe \"New Oxford History of Music\", produced under the general editorship of Sir Jack Westrup, began to appear in 1954.\nContributors included Paul Steinitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "5858627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5858627", "title": "Timecop (comics)", "text": "Timecop (comics)\n\nTimecop was originally published as a three-part story, \"Time Cop: A Man Out of Time\", in the anthology comic \"Dark Horse Comics\" (August–October 1992) and spawned the successful film \"Timecop\".\n\nAfter the film reached #1 at the box office, it managed to spin off into a video game for SNES, a short-lived TV show on ABC, a series of novels and a direct-to-video sequel in 2003.\n\nMike Richardson wrote a three-part story titled \"Time Cop: A Man Out of Time\", that was included in the launch of the Dark Horse Comics anthology series in 1992. Richardson developed the story, but the comic was written by Mark Verheiden and drawn by Ron Randall.\n\nRichardson and Verheiden then teamed up to write the screenplay for the movie adaptation and followed it with a two-issue comic book adaptation of the film, published along with the film’s release in 1994.\n\nThe plot of \"The Man out of Time\" and the \"TimeCop\" film are very different, but share the same protagonist: Max Walker. The original story involves the main character catching an illegal time traveler robbing a South African mine of a huge diamond in the 1930s. After his capture and return, however, Walker is soon made aware that the criminal's personal robotic bodyguard is still operational in the past and wreaking havoc on the timeline. To restore order, Walker must return to the mine and stop the machine's malfunctioning rampage.\n\nThe movie tie-in story is about a \"time enforcement\" officer who attempts to bring a rogue politician to justice who is using time travel to fund his presidential campaign. During the course of the film the officer discovers that the politician is also responsible for the earlier death of his wife, and numerous other previously unconnected crimes.\n\n"}
{"id": "32797406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32797406", "title": "Tokyo Football Stadium", "text": "Tokyo Football Stadium\n\nIt was used as football stadium of the 1958 Asian Games.\n"}
{"id": "13801970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13801970", "title": "Trybuna Ludu", "text": "Trybuna Ludu\n\nTrybuna Ludu (; \"People's Tribune\") was one of the largest newspapers in communist Poland. It was the official media outlet of the Polish United Workers' Party (PZPR) and one of its main propaganda outlets.\n\nOn 16 December 1948, Poland's primary two communist parties, the Polish Socialist Party and the Polish Workers' Party, were combined to form Polish United Workers' Party. The parties' respective newspapers, \"Robotnik\" and \"Głos Ludu\", were merged as well, and \"Trybuna Ludu\" was formed.\n\nThrough the 20th century, the media in Poland was entirely controlled by the PZPR, and newspapers were no exception. The contents of \"Trybuna Ludu\" and its smaller competitors were marked by the idea of reliance on the party. Being the official party newspaper, \"Trybuna Luda\" dominated the market. By the end of 1981, circulation topped 1 million. Despite growing opposition to the party, the number of \"Trybuna Ludu\" subscribers continued to grow and reached nearly 1.9 million by the late 1980s.\n\nThe break-up of the PZPR began on 28 January 1990, just hours after the final issue of \"Trybuna Ludu\" was printed. Despite an attempted relaunch as \"Trybuna Kongresowa\", the paper was unable to survive the fall of communism in Poland.\n\nAfter 1990, much of its tradition was unofficially taken over by \"Trybuna\", a newly created Polish left-wing newspaper. At its peak, the number of readers was a small 50,000, and, because of poor economic conditions, printing was halted in late 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "25404945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25404945", "title": "Utsunomiya Velodrome", "text": "Utsunomiya Velodrome\n\nUtsunomiya's oval is 500 meters in circumference. A typical keirin race of 2,025 meters consists of four laps around the course.\n\nUtsunomiya Velodrome is the home track of Yūichirō Kamiyama, a 21-year Keirin veteran and one of the sport's best competitors with 16 GI (Grade 1) victories in his career.\n\n"}
{"id": "23743528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23743528", "title": "Video Game Masters Tournament", "text": "Video Game Masters Tournament\n\nThe Video Game Masters Tournament was an event that was created in 1983 by Twin Galaxies to generate world record high scores for the 1984 U.S. Edition of the Guinness Book of World Records. It was the most prestigious contest of that era and the only one that the Guinness book looked to for verified world records on video games at the time. This contest was conducted under the joint efforts of Twin Galaxies and the U.S. National Video Game Team in 1983, 1984 and 1985 and by the U.S. National Video Game Team alone in 1986 and 1987.\n\nDuring its first year, 1983, the event was called the North America Video Game Challenge (State Teams Tournament), but was changed to the Video Game Masters Tournament by the second year.\n\nIn order to administer the contest, Twin Galaxies appointed the U.S. National Video Game Team to the task of collecting and verifying scores from the eight cities that participated in the 1983 edition of this event. The cities were Seattle, Washington; Lake Odessa, Michigan; Coeur D'Alene, Idaho; Omaha, Nebraska; Dayton, Ohio; San Jose, California; Upland, California and Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe 1984 event was also conducted in eight cities while the 1985 event was conducted in 35 cities.\n\nThe 1985 Video Game Masters Tournament was conducted as a fundraiser to raise donations for CARE. The fundraiser set aside half of all entry fees for the CARE/Twin Galaxies African Relief Fund.\n"}
{"id": "3198683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3198683", "title": "Wee Georgie Wood", "text": "Wee Georgie Wood\n\nGeorge Wood OBE (17 December 1894 in Jarrow, County Durham – 19 February 1979), known professionally as Wee Georgie Wood, was a British actor and comedian who appeared in films, plays and music hall revues. Wood, who was a dwarf, worked most his professional life in the guise of a child, appearing in comic and sentimental sketches. He also wrote a column in the weekly \"The Stage\" newspaper. He was a stalwart of the Savage Club.\n\nWood, who, when fully grown, was , started his long music hall and variety career at the age of five. Discovering that she had found her own home-made Eldorado, his mother managed his life off and on stage. Wood continued performing for over 50 years and was considered to have been one of the most successful pantomime stars of his era.\n\nWood was inducted into the prestigious show business charitable fraternity, the Grand Order of Water Rats and served as \"King Rat\" in 1936. Wood was awarded the OBE for services to the entertainment industry in the King's Birthday Honours List, which was announced on 24 June 1946.\nHe died in London on 19 February 1979 aged 84.\n\nWee Georgie Wood is mentioned at the end of the song \"Dig It\" from the Beatles' album \"Let It Be\".\nHe's mentioned in Last of the Summer Wine episode \"A Short Blast of Fred Astair\" when Pearl tells her husband Howard he's not \"big enough to be Wee Georgie Wood!\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3900021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3900021", "title": "World Wrestling Legends", "text": "World Wrestling Legends\n\nWorld Wrestling Legends was a professional wrestling event produced by Mirabilis Ventures and promoted by Sal Corrente, which was held on March 5, 2006. It was titled 6:05 - The Reunion as a tribute to the program \"WCW Saturday Night\", which aired weekly for many years at 6:05 P.M. on TBS. The event featured many notable wrestlers who appeared on it (as well as guests who inspired it and backstage staff who worked on it) and also included a reunion of the Nitro Girls. \"6:05 - The Reunion\" was taped for pay-per-view and broadcast on April 29, 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
