{"id": "3669270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3669270", "title": "Advocatione decimarum", "text": "Advocatione decimarum\n\nAn advocating decimarum is an ecclesiastical writ for reclaiming one quarter or more of the tithes that belong to any church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2055533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2055533", "title": "Anglo-Siamese Treaty of 1909", "text": "Anglo-Siamese Treaty of 1909\n\nThe Anglo-Siamese Treaty of 1909 or Bangkok Treaty of 1909 was a treaty between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and the Kingdom of Siam signed on 10 March 1909, in Bangkok. Ratifications were exchanged in London on 9 July 1909.\n\nThe Kingdom of Siam was controlled by the monarch. Siam's ability to maintain its independence from British and French colonizers is often been credited to the ruling family, the Chakkri dynasty. Although there were many previous monarchs of the Chakkri dynasty, those most responsible for maintaining Siam's independence begins with Rama I (r.1782-1809). Unlike previous rulers, Rama I was a technocratic ruler who consulted with social elites on political matters and Sangha (Buddhist monks) on religious matters. His consultations with the Siamese elites became for his successors. Rama I was succeeded by Rama II (r.1809-1824). Rama II's greatest accomplishment was the establishment of a government of ministers. Near the end of his reign, in 1820, the British came on the scene seeking control of Penang. Rama II was followed by Rama III (r.1824-1851). He granted concessions to the British in exchange for their support. The same would be done later with the French. In 1826, in an effort to establish independence, Rama III and British officials signed the Burney Treaty. The treaty affirmed British assent that Kedah, Perlis, Terengganu, and Patani were Thai provinces while Penang and Province Wellesley belonged to the British and that the Siamese would permit British trade in Kelantan and Terengganu. After Rama III's reign, a succession crisis brought Mongkut (r.1851-1868) to power. Under Mongkut's leadership the Bowring Treaty of 1855 was signed. It provided British subjects in Siam with extraterritoriality, meaning that Britons would have British laws applied to them rather than Siamese. Mongkut constantly made concessions to the British and French to maintain independence in Siam until, in 1868, he was succeeded by Chulalongkorn, who ruled from 1868 to 1910. Chulalongkorn was a moderniser, similar to his predecessors. He abolished slavery, centralised revenues, created a national educational system, and safeguarded Siamese independence.\n\nThe Anglo-Siamese Treaty of 1909, signed under the leadership of Chulalongkorn, consists of eight articles;\n\n\"The Siamese government transfers to the British government all rights of suzerainty, protection, administration and control whatsoever which they possess over the states of Kelantan, Tringganu, Kedah, Perlis, and adjacent islands. The frontiers of these territories are defined by the boundary protocol annexed hereto.\"\n\nThe transfer provided for in the preceding article shall take place within thirty days after the ratification of this treaty.\n\nA mixed commission, composed of Siamese and British officials and officers, shall be appointed within six months after the date of ratification of this treaty and shall be charged with the delimitation of the new frontier. The work of the commission shall be commenced as soon as the season permits, and shall be carried out in accordance with the boundary protocol annexed hereto.\n\nSubjects of his majesty the king of Siam residing within the territory described in article 1 who desire to preserve their Siamese nationality will, during the period of six months after the ratification of the present treaty, be allowed to do so if they become domiciled in the Siamese dominions. His Britannic majesty's government under take that they shall be at liberty to retain their immovable property within the territory described in article 1.\n\nIt is understood that in accordance with the usual custom where a change of suzerainty takes place, any concessions within the territories described in article 1 hereof to individuals or companies, granted by or with the approval of the Siamese government, and recognised by them as still in force on the date of the signature of the treaty, will be recognised by the government of his Britannic majesty.\n\nHis Britannic majesty's government undertake that the government of the Federated Malay States shall assume the indebtedness to the Siamese government of the territories described in article 1.\n\nThe jurisdiction of the Siamese International Courts, established by article 8 of the treaty of 3 September 1883, shall, under the conditions defined in the jurisdiction protocol annexed hereto, be extended to all British subjects in Siam registered at the British consulates before the date of the present treaty.\n\nThis system shall come to an end, and the jurisdiction of the International Courts shall be transferred to the ordinary Siamese courts after the promulgation and the coming into force of the Siamese codes, namely, the penal code, the civil and commercial codes, the codes of procedure, and the law for organisation of courts.\n\nAll other British subjects in Siam shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the ordinary Siamese courts under the conditions defined in the jurisdiction protocol.\n\nBritish subjects shall enjoy throughout the whole extent of Siam the rights and privileges enjoyed by the natives of the country, notably the right of property the right of residence and travel.\n\nThey and their property shall be subject to all taxes and services, but these shall not be other or higher than the taxes and services which are or maybe imposed by law on Siamese subjects. It is particularly understood that the limitation in the agreement of 20 September 1900, by which the taxation of land shall not exceed that on similar land in Lower Burmah, is hereby removed.\n\nBritish subjects in Siam shall be exempt from all military service, either in the army or navy, and from all forced loans or military exactions or contributions.\n\nThe provisions of all treaties, agreements, and conventions between Great Britain and Siam, not modified by the present treaty remain in full force.\n\nThe present treaty shall be ratified within four months from its date.\n\nIn witness where of the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the present treaty and affixed their seals.\nDone at Bangkok, in duplicate, the 10th day of March, in the year 1909.\"\n\nThis agreement has had a long-lasting impact on both Thailand and the Federation of Malaysia. The border between them was largely determined by this treaty. The dissatisfaction generated by the Anglo-Siamese Treaty of 1909 may have, in part, laid the foundations for the South Thailand insurgency in Pattani, Yala, and Narathiwat from the 1960s to the present. The agreement effectively divided the northern Malay states into two parts. The area around modern Pattani (), Narathiwat (), southernmost Songkhla (), Satun (), and Yala () remained under Thai control, while Thailand relinquished its claims to sovereignty over Kedah (), Kelantan (), Perlis () and Terengganu () which integrated the British sphere of influence as protectorates. These four states, along with Johor, later became known as the Unfederated Malay States. Although the treaty had cultural impacts and was responsible for giving away pieces of land, it was also responsible for maintaining the independence of Siam.\n"}
{"id": "761469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761469", "title": "Australian Electoral Commission", "text": "Australian Electoral Commission\n\nThe Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) is the federal independent agency in charge of organising, conducting and supervising federal elections and referendums. \n\nState and local government elections are overseen by separate Electoral Commissions in each state and territory:\n\nThe AEC's main responsibility is to conduct federal elections, by-elections and referendums. The AEC is also responsible for seat boundaries and redistributions, and the maintenance of an up-to-date electoral roll. Under the Joint Roll Arrangements, the AEC maintains the electoral roll for the whole of Australia, which is used by the state and territory Electoral Commissions to conduct their elections. The AEC publishes detailed election results and follows up electors who fail to vote\n\nThe AEC is also responsible for monitoring the activities of registered political parties, including receiving returns from parties of donations and expenditures, and the publication of the information. The AEC also plays an electoral education role, aiming to educate citizens about the electoral process by which representatives are elected, and by which the Australian Constitution is changed (referendums). It also plays a role in industrial voting (e.g., votes on industrial action).\n\nPolitical parties in Australia are publicly funded by the AEC, to reduce the influence of private money upon elections, and subsequently, the influence of private money upon the shaping of public policy. After each election, the AEC distributes a set amount of money to each political party, per vote received. For example, after the 2013 election, political parties and candidates received $58.1 million in election funding. The Liberal Party received $23.9 million in public funds, as part of the Coalition total of $27.2 million, while the Labor Party received $20.8 million.\n\nThe \"Commonwealth Electoral Act 1902\" set up the framework for the Commonwealth electoral system, which was administered until 1916 as a branch of the Department of Home Affairs, then until 1928 by the Department of Home and Territories, back to Department of Home Affairs until 1932 and then Department of the Interior until 1972. The Australian Electoral Office was created in 1973 by the \"Australian Electoral Office Act 1973\". On 21 February 1984 the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) was established as a Commonwealth statutory authority. \n\nThe AEC is answerable to the Joint Standing Committee on Electoral Matters of the Parliament of Australia, and must report on how elections were carried out and the success of elections in general.\n\nThe AEC was created by and operates under the \"Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918\". It consists of a chairman (a Judge or a retired Judge of the Federal Court), the Electoral Commissioner and a non-judicial member (usually the Australian Statistician). The Electoral Commissioner has the powers of a Secretary of a Department under the \"Public Service Act 1999\" and the \"Financial Management and Accountability Act 1998\". The Chairperson and the third, non-judicial member both hold their offices on a part-time basis.\n\nEach House of Representatives electorate has a Divisional Returning Officer responsible for administration of elections within the division. Each State also has an Australian Electoral Officer responsible for administration of Senate elections. The AEC has a National Office in Canberra and an office in each State and Territory: Adelaide, Brisbane, Darwin, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. \n\nSince the loss of 1,400 ballots during the recount for the 2013 Western Australia Senate election and the subsequent 2014 special election, the management of the AEC has been under significant scrutiny.\n\nIn Australia voter registration is called \"enrolment\", and the electoral register is called an \"electoral roll\". A permanent Australian federal electoral roll has been maintained since 1908, and enrolment has been compulsory for federal elections since 1912. The AEC maintains Australia's federal electoral roll, which is used for federal elections and referendums. Each state also has its own electoral commission or office, but voters need to register only with the AEC which shares the registration details with the relevant state electoral commission, except in the case of Western Australia, which maintains its own electoral roll. The federal roll also forms the basis of state (except in Western Australia) and local electoral rolls.\n\nAEC registration covers federal, state and local voter registration. In Australia and in each state and territory, it is a legal offence to fail to vote (or, at the very least, attend a polling station and have one's name crossed off the roll) at any federal or state election, punishable by a nominal fine. The amount varies between federal and state elections. (The fine for not voting is currently A$75.00 in Victoria. This figure is indexed at the beginning of every financial year.) Usually people are issued with warnings when it is found that they have not voted, and they are given an opportunity to show cause. Acceptable reasons for not voting may include being in the accident department of a hospital, being ill (requires confirmation), being out of the country on election day, religious objections, being incarcerated, etc. \"I forgot\" is not considered acceptable and will incur a fine. Section 245 of the \"Electoral Act\" (Cwth) provides that if an elector has been asked the \"true reason\" for his failure to vote states that he did not do so because it was against his religion, this statement shall be regarded as conclusive, and no further action will be taken.\n\nTraditionally, voters cannot register within three weeks of an election. In 2004 the Howard government passed legislation that prevented registration after 8 pm on the day that the writs were issued (this can be up to 10 days after the election has been announced). This legislation was considered controversial by some Australians who contended it disenfranchised first-time voters or those who have forgotten to update their enrolment. The law was repealed just before the 2010 federal election, after advocacy group GetUp! obtained a High Court ruling that the changes were unconstitutional. 16 and 17 year olds can provisionally enrol and are able to vote when they turn 18.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58808852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58808852", "title": "Byzantine–Venetian treaty of 1268", "text": "Byzantine–Venetian treaty of 1268\n\nThe Byzantine–Venetian treaty of 1268 was an agreement between the Byzantine Empire and the Republic of Venice, that brought to a temporary end the hostilities between the two powers, that had erupted after the Byzantine recovery of Constantinople by Michael VIII Palaiologos in 1261. A first treaty was concluded in 1265 but not ratified by Venice, until the rise of Charles of Anjou in Italy forced both powers to seek an accommodation. A new treaty was concluded in April 1268. It provided for a mutual truce of five years, the release of prisoners, and readmitted and regulated the presence of Venetian merchants in the Empire. Many of the trading privileges they had previously enjoyed were restored, but on considerably less advantageous terms to Venice than what Palaiologos had been willing to concede in 1265. The Byzantines were forced to recognize the Venetian possession of Crete and other areas captured after the Fourth Crusade, but succeeded in avoiding a full rupture with the Republic of Genoa, Venice's main rival and an ally of Byzantium since 1261, while removing for a time the threat of a Venetian fleet assisting Charles of Anjou in his plans to capture Constantinople.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Fourth Crusade, the Republic of Venice, which had provided the Crusaders with their fleet, received many of the spoils of the fallen Byzantine Empire: three-eighths of the Byzantine capital, Constantinople, and numerous strategically positioned colonies, including Crete. This event opened the Black Sea to Venetian trade, while Venetian influence in Constantinople ensured that throughout the newly established Latin Empire, the Venetians gained a privileged position, which secured their ascendancy over their old commercial rivals, the fellow Italian maritime republics of Pisa and Genoa. \n\nAs a result, the recovery of Constantinople by the Nicaean emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos in 1261, and the re-establishment of the Byzantine Empire under the Palaiologos dynasty, was a major blow to the position and interests of Venice. This was all the more since, in the search of a means with which to counter the mighty Venetian fleet, Palaiologos had allied with the Genoese, who were already at war with Venice, in the Treaty of Nymphaeum. This agreement not only gave the Genoese great privileges, but also assigned them the former quarters and property of the Venetians in Constantinople and threatened to exclude the Venetians from the Black Sea trade. \n\nInitially, the Venetians supported the exiled Latin Emperor, Baldwin II, in his efforts to form a new Crusade and reclaim his throne, and Venetian diplomacy henceforth \"served to bind together Latin projects to retake the capital\", in the words of Deno Geanakoplos. Barred from the Black Sea and Constantinople by her rival, Venice now followed a two-pronged strategy of using the Papacy and the threat of excommunication to pry the Genoese away from the Byzantines, and of obtaining the assistance of other Western powers, like Manfred of Sicily, for a campaign against Palaiologos. In the meantime, Venetian naval activity in the Aegean Sea did not provide any concrete results. In the summer of 1262, the Venetians ordered a 37-galley fleet into the Aegean, which met the Genoese fleet of 60 ships at Thessalonica, but the Genoese refused to engage. A piratical foray by the nobles of Negroponte, allied with Venice, into the Marmara Sea was confronted and defeated by a Byzantine–Genoese squadron. \n\nIn 1263, however, the Battle of Settepozzi ended in a clear Venetian victory, and much diminished the value of the Genoese alliance in the eyes of Palaiologos, who was furthermore annoyed by the Genoese captains' preference for attacking Venetian shipping for booty rather than assisting in supplying his forces fighting in the Morea, and concerned at the growth of Genoese influence in his own capital, as they threatened to acquire even more of a stranglehold on commerce than the Venetians had ever possessed. Soon after the battle Michael VIII dismissed sixty Genoese ships from his service. Both sides became increasingly mistrustful of each other, and Michael began to delay the payments for the crews of the Genoese ships. The Byzantine–Genoese rift widened further in 1264, when the Genoese \"podestà\" in Constantinople was implicated in a plot to surrender the city to Manfred of Sicily, whereupon the emperor expelled the Genoese from the city to Heraclea Perinthus.\n\nPalaiologos then sent a Venetian prisoner of war, Arrigo Trevisano, as his envoy to Venice. Doge Reniero Zeno sent Trevisano back to Constantinople, along with Benedetto Grillone, who in turn were replaced by Jacopo Dolfin and Jacopo Contarini. On 18 June 1265, a first treaty of truce was signed by Palaiologos and the Venetian envoys in Constantinople. Its terms were highly advantageous to the Venetians, and would, in the opinion of Geanakoplos, almost restore to her the position she had enjoyed before 1261. The Greek and Latin texts of the treaty are preserved in the collection of Venetian diplomatic documents compiled by Gottlieb Tafel and Georg Thomas and published by the Imperial Academy of Sciences in Vienna.\n\nIts main provisions were:\n\nThe treaty was not ratified by the Doge, however, for reasons not clear: according to Geanakoplos, either the Venetians interpreted Palaiologos' concessions as a sign of weakness, or mistrusted his ultimate intentions, since his desire to restore the Byzantine Empire to its pre-1204 boundaries was obvious and directly affected their own possessions in the area. Furthermore, as Donald Nicol points out, Zeno still cherished the title, conferred in 1204, of \"Lord of one-quarter and one-eighth of the Empire of Romania\" (\"dominus quartae partis et dimidiae totius Imperii Romaniae\"), and would be loath to accept a treaty that recognized him merely as \"Doge of Venice and Lord of Croatia, Dalmatia, and the other places and islands subject to his authority\" (, ) and that effectively diminished his standing and reverted the relations between Venice and Constantinople to the \"status quo\" before 1204. In light of this, Venice may have hoped to secure, or even augment, her position in the area with the aid of either Manfred of Sicily or the new and ambitious contender for supremacy in Italy, Charles of Anjou, whose ultimate designs on Constantinople were common knowledge, as can be seen from his inclusion in the draft treaty by Palaiologos.\n\nFollowing his decisive victory over Manfred at the Battle of Benevento in February 1266, Charles of Anjou, now master of Italy, began to plan for the realization of his ambtions against Constantinople. His plans were made public with the Treaty of Viterbo in May 1267, concluded between Charles, the exiled Latin Emperor Baldwin, the Papacy, and the Principality of Achaea. Charles pledged to assist Baldwin in recovering his capital and territories that had once belonged to the Latin Empire, in exchange for several territorial concessions in the Aegean and the western Balkans, and the suzerainty over Achaea. In an effort to lure the cautious Venetians into the pact, they were promised the full restoration of the rights they had enjoyed after 1204. Concerned over Charles' ambitions, and with his previous treaty with Venice null and void, Palaiologos turned again to Genoa, allowing the establishment of a Genoese colony in the suburb of Galata, across the Golden Horn from Constantinople. \n\nThese developments disquietened the Venetians as well: their trade with the East had suffered considerably following the Byzantine alliance with Genoa, while Charles of Anjou's imperial ambitions in the Adriatic and Greece were a potential threat to Venice's own freedom of access to the Mediterranean. Consequently on 1 November 1267, Doge Reniero Zeno sent two plenipotentiary ambassadors, Marco Bembo and Pietro Zeno, to negotiate a treaty with Palaiologos.\n\nThe Byzantine–Venetian treaty was concluded on 4 April 1268 at Constantinople. Palaiologos' position vis-à-vis Venice had improved in the years since 1265. As a result, the terms of the new treaty were considerably less advantageous to the Venetians, who furthermore felt compelled to recognize Palaiologos with the title \"imperator et moderator Romanorum\" (\"emperor and governor of the Romans\"), rather than \"Graecorum\" (\"of the Greeks\") as in 1265, and with the flattering appellation \"the new Constantine\", which Palaiologos had adopted after recovering Constantinople. The treaty was ratified by Doge Zeno on 30 June, but he died a few days later. Palaiologos quickly sent ambassadors to Venice, George Tzimiskes and George Kalodoukas, who were able to secure its recognition by Zeno's successor, Lorenzo Tiepolo, on 30 July.\n\nThe Latin text of the treaty is published in the collection of Venetian documents by Tafel and Thomas. The terms of the treaty were:\n\nThe treaty quickly bore fruit for the Byzantines: in September 1269, Charles of Anjou sent the Achaean knight Erard d'Aunoy and the abbot of Monte Cassino as envoys to Venice to enlist the Republic in his designs against Palaiologos, but the Doge declined, citing the truce. The Venetian stance reflected both their satisfaction, for the time being, with having again secured commercial access in the Byzantine Empire, as well as their disquiet at Charles' policies in the Adriatic, including a recent agreement with Hungary, traditionally a rival of Venice in Dalmatia. In 1272, as the truce neared its expiration, envoys from Charles, Baldwin, and Palaiologos were all present in Venice, the Byzantine ambassadors bringing with them 500 Venetians seized in Negroponte during the campaigns of the Byzantine admiral Licario. Amidst the intense diplomatic manoeuvring, including repeated warnings by Pope Gregory X not to renew the truce the Doge preferred to cautiously wait out developments; accordingly the truce remained tacitly in force, even if it was not officially renewed. \n\nNevertheless, the Venetians had reason to be dissatisfied, as the treaty's provisions regarding the free and safe movement of Venetian merchants and their goods was not scrupulously observed by the Byzantines: in 1278, the Doge submitted more than 300 cases of injury done to Venetian ships, merchants, and goods since 1268, at the hands of the Emperor's subjects; many of them pirates in Imperial employ, but also including soldiers, customs officials and local governors, and even, on one occasion, a \"sebastokrator\" (possibly Palaiologos' half-brother Constantine), who had murdered and robbed a Venetian archdeacon captured on a ship off the Morea.\n\nIn 1270, an anti-Angevin coalition took power in Genoa, and in 1272 renewed his alliance with Genoa, now directed against Charles of Anjou. Palaiologos' diplomatic offensive continued with his rapprochement with the Papacy, which alone could either decisively further (by declaring his campaign against Constantinople a Crusade) or thwart Charles' plans. The terms posed by the Popes were harsh: the Emperor and the Eastern Church would have to confess their errors and accept the supremacy of the Pope. Faced with the Angevin buildup of naval forces and alliances, Palaiologos had to concede, and the Union of the Churches was proclaimed at the Second Council of Lyon in 1274. Although the Union proved deeply unpopular among the Byzantine Church and populace, it was a \"diplomatic triumph\" for Palaiologos, as the Pope recognized him as legitimate emperor of Constantinople and forbade Charles to attack Palaiologos, who in turn used the opportunity to attack his Greek and Latin rivals in Greece. \n\nAlthough the Venetian representatives at Lyon had vociferously protested that Venice still claimed its rights in \"Romania\", the advantage lay with Palaiologos, and the new Doge, Jacopo Contarini, in 1276 sent envoys to Constantinople to renegotiate the 1268 treaty. This resulted in an agreement concluded between Palaiologos and the Venetian envoy Marco Bembo on 19 March 1277. Notably, this agreement was not phrased as a treaty, but rather as a chrysobull, a deed of grant, from the Emperor to Venice. Given the volatile international situation, however, its duration was limited to two years. After its expiration, it was not renewed, and in 1281, the Venetians in the Treaty of Orvieto entered Charles' anti-Byzantine coalition, with April 1283 as the projected starting date for the expedition against Constantinople. Charles' designs were, however, fatally interrupted by the outbreak of the Sicilian Vespers in March 1282 and the consequent War of the Sicilian Vespers. By the terms of the Treaty of Orvieto, a state of war existed between Venice and Byzantium. The outbreak of the Vespers had ruined Venetian chances to recover their privileged position, and for the duration of the state of war their trade with the East was interrupted, much to the advantage of the Genoese. After long negotiations, a final ten-year peace treaty, essentially renewing the 1277 agreement, was concluded in July 1285.\n\n"}
{"id": "11665051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11665051", "title": "Canadian Police Research Centre", "text": "Canadian Police Research Centre\n\nThe Canadian Police Research Centre (CPRC; French: Centre Canadien de Recherches Policières) was established in 1979 as a partnership between the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), and the National Research Council of Canada (NRC) in order to provide a focal point for research relating to law enforcement. It is staffed by personnel from the RCMP and the NRC and is governed by an independent advisory board made up of representatives from police and other related organizations from across Canada.\n\nIn its Spring 2007 budget, the Canadian Federal Government announced the allocation of $10 million over the next two years to expand the CPRC activities and establish its headquarters in Regina.\n\n"}
{"id": "4911701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4911701", "title": "Cooperative federalism", "text": "Cooperative federalism\n\nCooperative federalism, also known as marble-cake federalism, is a concept of federalism in which national, state, and local governments interact cooperatively and collectively to solve common problems, rather than making policies separately but more or less equally (such as the dual federalism of the 19th-century United States) or clashing over a policy in a system dominated by the national government.\n\nIn the Lisbon Treaty the distribution of competences in various policy areas between Member States and the European union is redistributed in 3 categories. In the United States soon after its creation (1789), it had exclusive competences only (changed somewhat since then, but the basic design remain to this day). Competences not explicitly listed belong to lower levels of governance.\n\nIn the American federal system, there are limitations on national government's ability to carry out its policies through the executive branch of state governments. For example, in \"Printz v. United States\", 521 U.S. 898 (1997) the Court held that the national government could not directly require state law enforcement officers to conduct background checks under the Brady firearms legislation. The court explained that prior decisions warned that \"this Court never has sanctioned explicitly a federal command to the States to promulgate and enforce laws and regulations.\" And yet, there are significant advantages in a federal system to obtain state assistance in the local implementation of federal programs. Implementing such programs through national employees would significantly increase the size and intrusiveness of the national government. Moreover, local implementation may assure that these programs are implemented in ways that take local conditions into account. \n\nFor this reason, Congress has often avoided adoption of completely nationalized programs by one of two devices. In the first, Congress creates a delivery system for federal programs in which the national government encourages local implementation of a federal program by providing significant matching funds. In this context, the phrase may be found in a number of Supreme Court and lower court federal cases. The most frequent early use of the phrase may be found in a series of cases describing the paradigm for federally sponsored welfare programs such as medical assistance or the former Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) programs in which a participating state's program is financed largely by the Federal Government, on a matching fund basis, subject to federal mandatory regulations. See for example, \"King v. Smith\" and a series of subsequent AFDC cases. More recently, the phrase has been used in connection with other federal programs built on the cooperative federalism model. See \"California v. U.S.\" 438 U.S. 645 (1978) (Reclamation Act) and \"Schaffer v. Weist\" (Special education). Here, the motivation for State compliance is that absent state compliance with federal conditions, the state loses significant federal funding. \n\nThe second method of encouraging states to implement federal programs is described in \"New York v. United States\", 505 U.S. 144 (1992). In this form, the Congress states that it will take over the regulation of an activity at the national level, unless the State itself implements its own program of regulation meeting minimum federal standards. Here, the motivation for State compliance is that absent state regulation, the state loses power over the regulated area entirely. In \"New York v. United States\", the court explained:\n\"...where Congress has the authority to regulate private activity under the Commerce Clause, we have recognized Congress' power to offer States the choice of regulating that activity according to federal standards or having state law preempted by federal regulation. \"Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Association\". See also \"FERC v. Mississippi\". This arrangement, which has been termed “a program of cooperative federalism,” Hodel, supra, is replicated in numerous federal statutory schemes. These include the Clean Water Act, see Arkansas v. Oklahoma, (Clean Water Act “anticipates a partnership between the States and the Federal Government, animated by a shared objective”); the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, see \"Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn.\", the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, see Department of Energy v. Ohio, and the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, see Kenaitze Indian Tribe v. Alaska.\"\n\nWhile the federal system places limits on the ability of the national government to require implementation by a State executive branch, or its local political subdivisions, that limitation does not apply in the same way to State judicial systems. In part, this is because the founders understood that state courts would be courts of general jurisdiction, bound to apply both state and federal law. In part, it is because the State courts adjudicate cases between citizens who are bound to comply with both state and federal law. When the Congress seeks to establish federal legislation which governs the behavior of citizens, the Congress is free to choose among three judicial enforcement paradigms. It may open both federal or state courts to enforcement of that right, by specifically providing concurrent jurisdiction in the federal courts. It may grant exclusive jurisdiction to the federal courts, or it may choose to leave enforcement of that right to civil dispute resolution amongst parties in State court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "333204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333204", "title": "Dalkon Shield", "text": "Dalkon Shield\n\nThe Dalkon Shield was a contraceptive intrauterine device (IUD) developed by the Dalkon Corporation and marketed by the A.H. Robins Company. The Dalkon Shield was found to cause severe injury to a disproportionately large percentage of its users, which eventually led to numerous lawsuits, in which juries awarded millions of dollars in compensatory and punitive damages.\n\nIn 1970, the A.H. Robins Company acquired the Dalkon Shield from the Dalkon Corporation, founded by Hugh J. Davis, M.D. The Dalkon Corporation had only four shareholders: the inventors Davis and Irwin Lerner, their attorney Robert Cohn, and Thad J. Earl, M.D., a medical practitioner in Defiance, Ohio. In 1971, Dalkon Shield went into the market, beginning in the United States and Puerto Rico, spearheaded by a large marketing campaign. At its peak, about 2.8 million women used the Dalkon Shield in the U.S.\n\nAt the time of its introduction, the Dalkon Shield was promoted as a safer alternative compared to birth control pills, which at the time was the subject of many safety concerns. Initial reports in the medical literature raised questions about whether its efficacy in preventing pregnancy and expulsion rate were as good as those claimed by the manufacturer, but failed to detect the tendency of the device to cause septic abortion and other severe infections.\n\nIn June 1973, the CDC conducted a survey of 34,544 physicians with practices in gynecology or obstetrics regarding women who had been hospitalized or had died with complications related to the use of an IUD in the previous 6 months. A total of 16,994 physicians responded, yielding 3,502 unique case reports of women hospitalized in the first 6 months of 1973. Based on the survey response rate, the CDC estimated that a total of 7,900 IUD related hospitalizations occurred during this 6-month period. Based on an estimate of 3.2 million IUD users, the CDC estimated an annual device-related hospitalization rate of 5 per 1000 IUD users. The survey also provided 5 reports of device-related fatalities, with four of these related to severe infection. One of the five was associated with the Dalkon Shield. Based on these data, the CDC estimated an IUD-related fatality rate of 3 per million users per year of use, which it compared favorably to the mortality risks associated with pregnancy and other forms of contraception. Importantly, the survey showed that the Dalkon Shield was associated with an increased rate of pregnancy-associated complications leading to hospitalization.\n\nBy 1974, approximately 2.5 million women had received the Dalkon intrauterine device. In June of that year, the Medical Director of A.H. Robins published a letter to the editor of the British Medical Journal stating that the company was aware of an \"apparent increase in the number of cases of septic abortions\" including 4 fatalities, but stating that \"there is no evidence of a direct cause-and-effect relationship between wearing of the Dalkon Shield and the occurrence of septicemia\". The letter recommended precautions including pregnancy tests for women who missed their period and immediate removal of the device in women who were found to be pregnant. In October 1974, a series of four case reports of septic pregnancies was published in the journal \"Obstretics and Gynecology\".\" In 1975, the CDC published a study associating the Dalkon Shield with a higher risk of spontaneous abortion-related death compared to other IUDs.\n\nAs many as 200,000 women made claims against the A.H. Robins company, mostly related to claims associated with pelvic inflammatory disease and loss of fertility. The company eventually filed for bankruptcy. The company's representatives argued that pelvic infections have a wide variety of causes, and that the Dalkon Shield was no more dangerous than other forms of birth control. Lawyers for the plaintiffs argued that the women they represented would be healthy and fertile today if not for the device. Scientists from the CDC stated that both arguments have merit.\n\nMore than 300,000 lawsuits were filed against the A.H. Robins Company – the largest tort liability case since asbestos. The federal judge, Miles W. Lord, attracted public commentary for his judgments, personal liabilities and public rebukes of the company heads. The cost of litigation and settlements (estimated at billions of dollars) led the company to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1985. As a result, Robins sold the company to American Home Products (now Wyeth). \n\nIn 1976, the Medical Device Amendments to the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act mandated the U. S. Food and Drug Administration, for the first time, to require testing and approval of \"medical devices\", including IUDs.\n\nThe Dalkon Shield became infamous for its serious design flaw: a porous, multifilament string upon which bacteria could travel into the uterus of users, leading to sepsis, injury, miscarriage, and death. Modern Intrauterine devices (IUDs) use monofilament strings, which do not pose this grave risk to users.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28032914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28032914", "title": "Democratic Republic of the Congo constitutional referendum, 1967", "text": "Democratic Republic of the Congo constitutional referendum, 1967\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Democratic Republic of the Congo between 4 and 16 June 1967. The new constitution created a unitary state with a presidential system, whereby the president would be selected by a unicameral National Assembly and then approved by a referendum. It also abolished presidential term limits, limited the number of political parties to two, and gave women the vote.\n\nThe prosposed constitution was approved by 97.8% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "34543329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34543329", "title": "Depositary", "text": "Depositary\n\nIn international law, a depositary is a government or organization to which a multilateral treaty is entrusted. The principal functions of a depositary are codified in Article 77 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties.\n\nFrance's Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs serves as the depositary for multilateral treaties such as the Geneva Protocol.\n\nNew Zealand's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade serves as the depositary for multilateral treaties such as the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement and Trans-Pacific Partnership.\n\nRussia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs serves as the depositary for multilateral treaties such as the Biological Weapons Convention, Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.\n\nSwitzerland's Federal Department of Foreign Affairs of Switzerland serves as the depositary for 78 multilateral treaties including the Geneva Conventions.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Foreign and Commonwealth Office currently acts as the depositary for documents such as Agreement on the Rescue of Astronauts, the Return of Astronauts and the Return of Objects Launched into Outer Space, Constitution of UNESCO, and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction. Public copies are supplied by The Stationery Office and the British Library.\n\nThe United States Department of State is currently the depositary for more than 200 multilateral treaties, including the Charter of the United Nations, Convention on International Civil Aviation, North Atlantic Treaty, Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, and the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Generally, the United States executes its responsibilities in accordance with the will of each individual treaty or, in lieu of such provision, as per the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties.\n\nThe United Nations Secretary-General serves as the depositary for numerous multilateral treaties, including the Chemical Weapons Convention, Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.\n\n"}
{"id": "4354392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4354392", "title": "European Group on Tort Law", "text": "European Group on Tort Law\n\nThe European Group on Tort Law, sometimes called the Spier/Koziol group, is an academic group devoted to revising tort principles that are supposed to be common to Europe. \n\nIn 1992 Jaap Spier, who at the time was a professor of law at the Universiteit van Tilburg, called together a group of scholars to discuss fundamental questions of tort law on a comparative basis. After exploring the limits of liability, this “Tilburg Group” embarked on quite a demanding project – the drafting of \"Principles of European Tort Law” (PETL).\n\nThe group, now known under the name “European Group on Tort Law”, has grown considerably in the meantime and currently comprises twenty members. These include Francesco D. Busnelli, Giovanni Comandé (both Pisa, Italy), Herman Cousy (Leuven, Belgium), Dan Dobbs (Arizona, USA), Bill Dufwa (Stockholm, Sweden), Michael Faure (Maastricht, the Netherlands), Israel Gilead (Jerusalem, Israel), Michael Green (Wake Forest, USA), Konstantinos D. Kerameus (Athens, Greece), Bernhard A. Koch (Innsbruck, Austria), Helmut Koziol (Vienna, Austria), Ulrich Magnus (Hamburg, Germany), Miquel Martín-Casals (Girona, Spain), Jorge F. Sinde Monteiro (Coimbra, Portugal), Olivier Moréteau (Baton Rouge, USA), Johann Neethling (Pretoria, South Africa), W.V. Horton Rogers (Leeds, UK), Jaap Spier (the Hague, the Netherlands), Luboš Tichý (Prague, Czech Republic), Pierre Widmer (Berne, Switzerland).\n\nIn order to create an institutional basis for the drafting of the Principles, the European Centre of Tort and Insurance Law (ECTIL) was founded by the group in Vienna (Austria) at the beginning of 1999. ECTIL also undertakes further research projects in the field of tort and insurance law and is now supported by the Institute for European Tort Law of the Austrian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 2009, the Group has resumed work on the Principles with an eye to expanding the scope of supporting projects and to incorporating all the feedback collected so far. New members include Bjarte Askeland (Bergen, Norway), Ewa Baginska (Torun, Poland), Eugenia Dacoronia (Athens, Greece), Anne Keirse (Utrecht, the Netherlands), Ken Oliphant (Vienna, Austria), Vibe Ulfbeck (Copenhagen, Denmark) and Bénédict Winiger (Geneva, Switzerland).\n\n"}
{"id": "43803939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43803939", "title": "Gartside v Sheffield", "text": "Gartside v Sheffield\n\nGartside v Sheffield [1983] NZLR 37 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding liability for negligence cases against lawyers \n\nWinnifred Herrold, aged 89, after suffering a fall and being admitted to a retirement home, on 2 October 1978 contacted her solicitor at the law firm of Sheffield, Young & Ellis (later to merge with Chapman Trip) to draw up a new will to leave the bulk of her estate to Jack Gartside. The solicitor visited her at her resthome on 5 October and took her instructions to draw up the new will.\n\nHowever, Herrold died on 12 October, without her solicitor getting her to sign the new will. This resulted in Gartside getting nothing from the estate, as the estate was given to her sister under a previous will.\n\nGartside claimed the lawyers were negligent, whilst the lawyers said they did not owe a duty of care to a mere beneficiary.\n\nGartside sued the 5 partners of the law firm, which were able to get his claim struck out by the High Court.\n\nHe appealed.\n\nThe Court of Appeal reinstated his claim, saying they did owe a duty of care to a beneficiary.\n"}
{"id": "58153268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58153268", "title": "Grenadian constitutional referendum, 2018", "text": "Grenadian constitutional referendum, 2018\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Grenada on 6 November 2018. The proposed constitutional amendment, which voters ultimately rejected, would have made the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) the final court of appeal, replacing the British Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and renamed the Supreme Court. A slightly different proposal was previously made in a 2016 referendum, but was also rejected by voters.\n\nAntigua and Barbuda also held a referendum on joining the CCJ on the same day; that vote also failed to pass.\n\nVoters were asked to respond YES or NO to the following question:\n\nNo votes outstripped yeses by 12,133 to 9,846, on a turnout of 28%. Prime Minister Keith Mitchell, whose government had called the vote, said he was \"disappointed\" but that he was \"in total acceptance of the results\".\n"}
{"id": "2785889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2785889", "title": "Group of Thirty", "text": "Group of Thirty\n\nThe Group of Thirty, often abbreviated to G30, is an international body of leading financiers and academics which aims to deepen understanding of economic and financial issues and to examine consequences of decisions made in the public and private sectors related to these issues. Topical areas within the interest of the group include: the foreign exchange market, international capital markets, international financial institutions, central banks and their supervision of financial services and markets, and macroeconomic issues such as product and labor markets.\n\nThe group is noted for its advocacy of changes in global clearing and settlement.\n\nThe Group of Thirty was founded in 1978 by Geoffrey Bell at the initiative of the Rockefeller Foundation, which also provided initial funding for the body. Its first chairman was Johannes Witteveen, the former managing director of the International Monetary Fund. The G30's current Chairman is Tharman Shanmugaratnam. Its current Chairman of the Board of Trustees is Jacob Frenkel, and Paul Volcker is Chairman Emeritus.\n\nThe Bellagio Group, formed by Austrian economist Fritz Machlup, was the immediate predecessor to the Group of Thirty. It first met in 1963, to investigate international currency problems, particularly the balance of payments crisis which America faced throughout the early 1960s.\n\nIn June 2011, the group released a report that examines the most recent developments in the 2008 financial crisis, including the causes, the responses and the future outlook for the United States and other markets.\n\nIn January 2018, the European Ombudsman Emily O'Reilly requested that ECB President Mario Draghi resign from the group because his membership in the organization could be interpreted as undue influence.\n\nThe group consists of thirty members and includes the heads of major private banks and central banks, as well as members from academia and international institutions. Current members of the group include current and former heads of the central banks of Argentina, Brazil, Great Britain, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Poland, Singapore, Spain, and Switzerland, as well as two chairmen of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, two presidents of the European Central Bank, a chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, two chairmen of the Bank for International Settlements, two chief economists of the International Monetary Fund, a chief economist of the World Bank, and the former President of Mexico. It holds two full meetings each year and also organises seminars, symposia, and study groups. It is based in Washington, D.C.\n"}
{"id": "1632413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632413", "title": "Gun laws in Pakistan", "text": "Gun laws in Pakistan\n\nGun laws in Pakistan allow for the wide ownership of firearms there. Only tribal areas of the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa permits the ownership of heavy weaponry including the use of rocket-propelled grenades, short, medium, and long-range rockets, anti-aircraft guns, mortars, etc. These heavy weapons may be made in Pakistan.\n\nThe people of the provinces of Punjab and Sindh view the bearing and use of arms as a constitutional right whereas the people of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Baluchistan view it as part of their culture. Pakistan is also known for its indigenous gunsmith tradition. A notable centre of gun manufacturing is the town of Darra Adam Khel, near Peshawar, historically known for its Lee–Enfield .303 facsimiles and other Khyber Pass copies. However, the town now produces a broader range of ordnance including AK-47's, mini-Kalashnikovs, and hand-held firearms, including the \"\"James Bond\" pen gun\".\n\nOther enduring customs and a strong culture of honor also promote the prevalence and importance of guns. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where the Pashtun residents laud performances of strength and toughness, carrying a AK-47 or other gun is a sign of honour and respect. Similarly, much of mainstream Pakistani culture, including Balochi, Sindhi, Punjabi and Kashmiri cultures, is heavily influenced by guns, as evidenced by common practice of aerial firings on special occasions such as weddings. According to Michael Palin, \"For Pakistanis, a gun is a social necessity. Pathans carry guns the way Londoners carry umbrellas.\" As such, the broader Pakistani social necessity of portable and displayable wealth takes on an intimidating form among male members of provincial society.\n\nThe founder of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah held a British firearms certificate. Unlike gun politics in the United States which is frequently debated, there is little public debate in Pakistan on gun control.\n\nIn no particular order, Pakistanis view weapons as important for one or more of these purposes:\n\n\nThere are an estimated 20 million firearms in public ownership in Pakistan (both legal and illegal), of which 7 million are registered among the country's population of over 220 million. The rate of private gun ownership is 11.6 firearms per 100 people. In a comparison of the number of privately owned guns in 178 countries, Pakistan ranks at No.6. As of 2009, the homicide rate is 7.3 per 100,000 population, higher than the United States at 5.0 per 100,000 population.\n\nAlthough owning or possessing a firearm requires licensing in most of Pakistan's provinces, journalist Naeem Sadiq states that most gun licenses are fake, mostly based on forged documents and through government connections and alliances of licenses holders. He also further states that gun licensing laws do not require any background checks or safety targeting or written tests. This also includes a lack of tests on mental health or drug usage by the applicant(s). He argues this to be a contrast to Pakistan's current war against militancy. Sadiq also makes mention of private security guards who carry firearms in public, repeating the common concern of them harassing and intimidating ordinary citizens. Another allegation he makes is that many of the rich elite in Pakistan manage to evade gun restrictions and are able to fabricate paper and digital licenses through connections in the government (ie. friends and relatives). They are also allegedly able to avoid penalties on gun-related offenses, including murder because of the current diyat laws, allowing a wealthy person to pay compensation to a deceased victim's family. Towards the end of the year 2017, Sadiq wrote an open letter to the government to retain its responsibility to protect citizens rather than allow the state to become ‘Republic of Private Security Agencies’.\n\nThere are restrictions on shotguns in Pakistan. The regulation of firearms in Pakistan is categorised as shot gun license. Pakistani citizens and special category of foreigners can legally own firearms. A licence is required to purchase a firearm. Acquisition of the licence involves the payment of fees, a processing time ranging from a few days to months, and registration of the firearm with local authorities. Two kinds of licences are currently issued: (1) Prohibited bore and (2) Non-Prohibited bore. They are issued by both the Federal government and Provincial governments. The federal government issues both Prohibited bore (which includes fully automatic weapons) and Non-Prohibited bore (which includes semi-automatic and other weapons) licences for all of Pakistan. Provincial government cannot issue Prohibited Bore licences and their licensing jurisdiction is restricted to their particular province.\n\nPresent laws allow ownership of handguns of any calibre, although previously there existed an upper limit restriction of .38-calibre. All shotguns are allowed. Federal prohibited bore permits for civilian fully automatic weapons are issued by the Ministry of the Interior and are valid throughout Pakistan.\n\nIn Pakistan, private possession of fully automatic, semi-automatic and handguns (pistols and revolvers) is permitted under licence. Only licensed gun owners may lawfully acquire, possess or transfer a firearm or ammunition. Applicants for a gun owner's license are not required to prove genuine reason to possess a firearm. Third party character references are not required. Where a past history, or likelihood of family violence exists, the law in Pakistan does not stipulate that a gun licence should be denied or revoked. An understanding of firearm safety and the law, tested in a theoretical and/or practical training course is not required for a firearm licence. Licensed firearm owners in Pakistan are permitted to possess any number of firearms as well as being permitted to possess any quantity of ammunition.\n\nIn Pakistan, the law requires that a record of the acquisition, possession and transfer of each privately held firearm be retained in an official register. Licensed firearm dealers are also required to keep a record of each firearm or ammunition purchase, sale or transfer on behalf of a regulating authority. Licensed gun makers are required to keep a record of each firearm produced, for inspection by a regulating authority. State agencies are required to maintain records of the storage and movement of all firearms and ammunition under their control.\n\nIn Pakistan, the private sale and transfer of firearms is permitted. Dealing with firearms by way of business without a valid gun dealer's licence is unlawful. The minimum wait for a lawful firearm purchase to be completed is undetermined. Celebratory gunfire and temporary firearm dealing events are not regulated.\n\nFirearm regulations in Pakistan do not include written specifications for the lawful safe storage of private firearms and ammunition by licensed gun owners. There are also no written specifications for the lawful safe storage of private firearms and ammunition, no inclusion of written specifications for the lawful safe storage of firearms and ammunition and no lawful safe storage of firearms and ammunition by state entities. However, there are written specifications for the lawful safe storage of firearms and ammunition while in transit.\n\nIn Pakistan, a unique identifying mark on each firearm is required by law. State authorities carry out recognised arms tracing and tracking procedures but state authorities do not employ ballistic fingerprinting technology to trace guns and ammunition.\n\nIn Pakistan, private guns are prohibited in educational institutions, hostels or boarding and lodging houses, fairs, gatherings or processions of a political, religious, ceremonial or sectarian character, and on the premises of courts of law or public offices.\n\nIn Pakistan, the maximum penalty for illicit possession of firearms is 7 years prison.\n\nAuthorities in Pakistan are known to have implemented voluntary firearm surrender schemes, and/or weapon seizure programmes in order to reduce the number of illicit firearms in circulation. In 2010 alone, more than 89,000 illegal firearms were voluntarily surrendered by Pakistani citizens for destruction. The total number of firearms destroyed following recent state amnesties, collection and seizure programmes is reported to be 641,107. The Pakistani military routinely captures and destroy all weapons seized from the Taliban.\n\nOpen carry is considered to be a misdemeanor in cities and permitted in rural areas. A person may keep a firearm at their place of residence (including display on rooftops of private residences), in their vehicle and concealed carry. According to law the open carrying is prohibited without the approval of the Home Ministry, but in practice are considered misdemeanors in urban areas and permitted in rural areas. Open carry is practiced without restriction in rural Khyber-Pukhtunkhwa and Baluchistan. Special permits are also required for carrying firearms during times when local authorities impose restrictions on public gatherings to preempt civil unrest or during protests that are expected to become violent. In large cities, target shooting facilities exist for gun enthusiasts to practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "27301503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27301503", "title": "Hogan Lovells", "text": "Hogan Lovells\n\nHogan Lovells is an international law firm co-headquartered in London and Washington, D.C.. It was formed on May 1, 2010 by the merger of Washington-based \"Hogan & Hartson\" and London-based \"Lovells\". Hogan Lovells has around 2,800 lawyers working in more than 40 offices in the United States, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Asia.\n\nIn 2013, Hogan Lovells was the eleventh largest law firm in the world by revenues, earning around US$1.8bn (£1.1bn) that year. By 2017, the firm had risen to 7th worldwide with gross revenues exceeding US$2 billion.\n\nHogan Lovells claims specialization in \"government regulatory, litigation, commercial litigation and arbitration, corporate, finance, and intellectual property\".\n\nHogan & Hartson was founded by Frank J. Hogan in 1904. In 1925, Hogan was joined by Nelson T. Hartson, a former Internal Revenue Service attorney, and John William Buttson Guider. Hogan & Hartson then went into partnership in 1938 with Buttson as a silent partner.\n\nIn 1970, Hogan & Hartson became the first major firm to establish a separate practice group devoted exclusively to providing \"pro bono\" legal services. The Community Services Department (CSD) dealt with civil rights, environmental, homeless and other public interest groups. In 1990, Hogan & Hartson opened an office in London, their first outside the U.S.\n\nIn 2000, the firm expanded to Tokyo and Berlin (after poaching a team from the former German ally of UK firm Linklaters). The firm expanded its presence in New York and Los Angeles in 2002 when it acquired mid-sized law firm Squadron, Ellenoff, Plesent & Sheinfeld, a storied New York City-based practice with strengths in media, litigation and First Amendment law.\n\nAt the time of the merger, \"Hogan & Hartson\" was the oldest major law firm headquartered in Washington, D.C., United States. It was a global firm with more than 1,100 lawyers in 27 offices worldwide, including offices in North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.\n\nLovells traced its history in the UK back to 1899, when John Lovell set up on his own account at Octavia Hill, between St Paul's and Smithfield. He was later joined by Reginald White, a clerk in his previous firm, to whom he gave articles. In 1924, they were joined by Charles King, forming Lovell, White & King. Soon after formation, the firm moved to Thavies Inn at Holborn Circus and later to Serjeant's Inn, Fleet Street, before moving to 21 Holborn Viaduct in October 1977.\n\nLovells was formed as a result of a number of earlier mergers. In 1966, Lovell, White & King merged with Haslewoods, a firm with a much longer history of private client work. Haslewoods diverse clients included the Treasury Solicitor. In 1988, Lovell, White & King, which by then had a large international commercial practice, merged with Durrant Piesse, known, in particular, for its specialism in banking and financial services, forming Lovell White Durrant. It then changed to Lovells in 2000 when the firm merged with German law firm Boesebeck Droste. Other mergers then followed in other European countries during the early 2000s (decade).\n\nIn the early 2000s Lovells invested strongly in China, expanding is office in Beijing and opening an office in Shanghai becoming the second largest foreign firm in China. Following five years of growth, culminating in the opening of the firm's Madrid office in 2004, Lovells had a presence in every major European jurisdiction. In 2007, Lovells opened an office in Dubai, offering legal services to corporations, financial institutions and individuals in the Middle East and at the beginning of 2009 opened an office in Hanoi. In September 2009, Lovells opened an associated office in Riyadh.\n\nAt the time of the merger, \"Lovells\" was a London-based international law firm with over 300 partners and around 3,150 employees operating from 26 offices in Europe, Asia and the United States.\n\nHogan & Hartson and Lovells announced their agreement to merge on 15 December 2009. Hogan Lovells was officially formed on May 1, 2010.\n\nIn December 2011 it was reported that Hogan Lovells would be moving to a single chairman model following the retirement of John Young.\n\nIn December 2013, Hogan Lovells merged with South African firm Routledge Modise. The addition of about 120 lawyers in the Johannesburg office make up the first physical location for Hogan Lovells in Africa although the firm maintains a presence in Francophone Africa through its Paris office.\n\nHogan Lovells practices in a variety of commercial law. Hogan Lovells has advised on the following matters:\n\nHogan Lovells is among the largest lobbying firms in the United States. Before the merger, by revenue, Hogan & Hartson was among the top five lobbying firms in the United States. Since the merger, the firm has remained among the largest lobbying firms, servicing $12.3 million in lobbying 2013.\n\nIn October 2016, Hogan Lovells was dragged into the Jonas Makwaka investigation as part of the Zuma corruption scandal. The firm's role was \"to conduct an independent investigation into allegations against Mr Jonas Makwakwa and Ms Kelly Ann Elskie\". Although the report concluded that \"disciplinary action should be taken\", the document was widely seen as effectively a whitewash. Other international firms implicated in Zuma related scandals have included KPMG and McKinsey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15514352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15514352", "title": "Hours of service", "text": "Hours of service\n\nHours of Service (HOS) regulations are issued by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) and govern the working hours of anyone operating a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) in the United States. These regulations apply to truck drivers, commercial and city bus drivers, and school bus drivers who operate CMVs. These rules limit the number of daily and weekly hours spent driving and working, and regulate the minimum amount of time drivers must spend resting between driving shifts. For intrastate commerce, the respective state's regulations apply.\n\nThe FMCSA is a division of the United States Department of Transportation (DOT), which is generally responsible for enforcement of FMCSA regulations. The driver of a CMV is required to keep a record of working hours using a log book, outlining the total number of hours spent driving and resting, as well as the time at which the change of duty status occurred. In lieu of a log book, a motor carrier may keep track of a driver's hours using Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs), which automatically record the amount of time spent driving the vehicle.\n\nThe HOS's main purpose is to prevent accidents caused by driver fatigue. This is accomplished by limiting the number of driving hours per day, and the number of driving and working hours per week. Fatigue is also prevented by keeping drivers on a 21- to 24-hour schedule, maintaining a natural sleep/wake cycle (or circadian rhythm). Drivers are required to take a daily minimum period of rest, and are allowed longer \"weekend\" rest periods to combat cumulative fatigue effects that accrue on a weekly basis.\n\nEnforcement of the HOS is generally handled by DOT officers of each state, and are sometimes checked when CMVs pass through weigh stations. Drivers found to be in violation of the HOS can be forced to stop driving for a certain period of time, which may negatively affect the motor carrier's safety rating. Requests to change the HOS are a source of contentious debate, and many surveys indicate some drivers get away with routinely violating the HOS. These facts have started another debate on whether motor carriers should be required to use ELDs in their vehicles, instead of relying on paper-based log books.\n\nDrivers subject to the HOS include any driver of a vehicle which has a gross vehicle weight of or more; which is designed or used to transport more than 8 passengers (including the driver) for compensation; which is designed or used to transport more than 15 passengers (including the driver) and is not used to transport passengers for compensation; or which is used to transport hazardous materials in quantities requiring the vehicle to be marked or placarded under the hazardous materials regulations.\n\nThe purpose of the HOS is to reduce accidents caused by driver fatigue. As the graph to the right illustrates, the number of hours spent driving has a strong correlation to the number of fatigue-related accidents. According to numerous studies, the risk of fatigue is also greatest between the hours of midnight and six in the morning, and increases with the total length of the driver's trip.\n\nThe FMCSA identifies three main factors in driver fatigue: Circadian rhythm effects, sleep deprivation and cumulative fatigue effects, and industrial or \"time-on-task\" fatigue.\n\nCircadian rhythm effects describe the tendency for humans to experience a normal cycle in attentiveness and sleepiness through the 24-hour day. Those with a conventional sleep pattern (sleeping for seven or eight hours at night) experience periods of maximum fatigue in the early hours of the morning and a lesser period in the early afternoon. During the low points of this cycle, one experiences reduced attentiveness. During the high points, it is difficult to sleep soundly. The cycle is anchored in part by ambient lighting (darkness causes a person's body to release the hormone melatonin, which induces sleep), and by a person's imposed pattern of regular sleeping and waking times. The influence of the day-night cycle is never fully displaced (standard artificial lighting is not strong enough to inhibit the release of melatonin), and the performance of night shift workers usually suffers. Circadian rhythms are persistent, and can only be shifted by one to two hours forward or backward per day. Changing the starting time of a work shift by more than these amounts will reduce attentiveness, which is common after the first night shift following a \"weekend\" break during which conventional sleep times were followed.\n\nSleep deprivation and cumulative fatigue effects describe how individuals who fail to have an adequate period of sleep (7–8 hours in 24 hours) or who have been awake longer than the conventional 16–17 hours will suffer sleep deprivation. A sleep deficit accumulates with successive sleep-deprived days, and additional fatigue may be caused by breaking daily sleep into two shorter periods in place of a single unbroken period of sleep. A sleep deficit is not instantly reduced by one night's sleep; it may take two or three conventional sleep cycles for an individual to return to unimpaired performance.\n\nIndustrial or \"time-on-task\" fatigue describes fatigue that is accumulated during the working period, and affects performance at different times during the shift. Performance declines the longer a person is engaged in a task, gradually during the first few hours and more steeply toward the end of a long period at work. Reduced performance has also been observed in the first hour of work as an individual adjusts to the working environment.\n\nParts of a driver's work day are defined in four terms: On-duty time, off-duty time, driving time, and sleeper berth time.\n\nFMCSA regulation §395.2 states:\n\nOn-duty time is all time from when a driver begins to work or is required to be in readiness to work until the driver is relieved from work and all responsibility for performing work.\n\n\nDriving time is all time spent at the driving controls of a CMV.\n\nSleeper berth time is any amount of time spent inside the sleeper berth (e.g., resting or sleeping). FMCSA regulation §393.76 gives the minimum requirements for a space to be defined as a sleeper berth. The simple definition is an area separate from (usually immediately behind) the driving controls that includes a bed. The rules do not explicitly require that a driver must sleep, only that a driver must take a period of \"rest\" within the sleeper berth or off-duty (i.e., home). A statement made by the ICC in 1937 gives the reason: \"We have no control over the manner in which a driver may spend his time off-duty, although some of his spare time activities may tire him as much as any work would do. We can only emphasize, by this comment, the responsibility which is the driver's own to assure himself of adequate rest and sleep, in the time available for this purpose, to ensure safety of his driving, and likewise the employer's responsibility to see that his drivers report for work in fit condition.\"\n\nOff-duty time is any time not spent on-duty, driving, or in the sleeper berth.\n\nIn 1938, the now-abolished Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) enforced the first HOS rules. Drivers were limited to 12 hours of work within a 15-hour period. Work was defined as \"loading, unloading, driving, handling freight, preparing reports, preparing vehicles for service, or performing any other duty pertaining to the transportation of passengers or property.\" The ICC intended the 3-hour difference between 15 hours on-duty and 12 hours of work to be used for meals and rest breaks. The weekly maximum was limited to 60 hours over 7 days (non-daily drivers), or 70 hours over 8 days (daily drivers). These rules allowed for 12 hours of work within a 15-hour period, 9 hours of rest, with 3 hours for breaks within a 24-hour day.\n\nWithin a short time, however, representatives of organized labor (including the American Federation of Labor, the Teamsters, and the International Association of Machinists) petitioned for a stay of the original regulations. A few motor carriers made a similar request. The ICC agreed, and oral arguments were heard again. Labor wanted HOS limits of 8 hours per day and 48 hours per week. The ICC commented \"there was no statistical or other information which would enable [them] to say definitely how long a driver can safely work.\"\n\nWithin six months of the original ruling, the ICC ultimately decided to change the 12-hour \"work\" limit in 24 hours to a 10-hour \"driving\" limit in 24 hours, and the 15-hour on-duty limit was rescinded. Motor carriers were required to give drivers 8, rather than 9, consecutive hours off-duty each day. These rules allowed for 10 hours of driving and 8 hours of rest within a 24-hour day.\n\nIn 1962, for reasons it never clearly explained, the ICC eliminated the 24-hour cycle rule, and reinstated the 15-hour on-duty limit. With 10 hours of driving and 8 hours of sleep, drivers were allowed to maintain an 18-hour cycle, disrupting the driver's natural 24-hour circadian rhythm. This change allowed up to 16 hours of driving per day, allowing the driver to exhaust their weekly limits in as little as five days. Later, an added exception for trucks equipped with sleeper berths meant drivers were allowed to \"split\" their 8-hour off-duty time into two parts. With the new splitting provision, a driver could take two 4-hour periods of rest. Using one of these short rest periods would effectively \"stop the on-duty clock\", allowing the driver to split the 15-hour on-duty time limit into two parts as well. These rules allowed for 10 hours of work within a 15-hour time limit, and 8 hours of rest within an 18-hour day.\n\nBetween 1962 and 2003, there were numerous proposals to change the HOS again, but none were ever finalized. By this time, the ICC had been abolished, and regulations were now issued by the FMCSA. The 2003 changes applied only to property-carrying drivers (i.e., truck drivers). These rules allowed 11 hours of driving within a 14-hour period, and required 10 hours of rest. These changes would allow drivers (using the entire 14-hour on-duty period) to maintain a natural 24-hour cycle, with a bare minimum 21-hour cycle (11 hours driving, 10 hours rest). However, the retention of the split sleeper berth provision would allow drivers to maintain irregular, short-burst sleeping schedules.\n\nThe most notable change of 2003 was the introduction of the \"34-hour restart.\" Before the change, drivers could only gain more weekly driving hours with the passing of each day (which reduced their 70-hour total by the number of hours driven on the earliest day of the weekly cycle). After the change, drivers were allowed to \"reset\" their weekly 70-hour limit to zero, by taking 34 consecutive hours off-duty. This provision was introduced to combat the cumulative fatigue effects that accrue on a weekly basis, and to allow for two full nights of rest (e.g., during a weekend break).\n\nIn 2005, the FMCSA changed the rules again, \"practically\" eliminating the split sleeper berth provision. Drivers are now required to take a full 8 hours of rest, with 2 hours allowed for off-duty periods, for a total of 10 hours off-duty. This provision forced drivers to take one longer uninterrupted period of rest, but eliminated the flexibility of allowing drivers to take naps during the day without jeopardizing their driving time. Today's rule still allows them to \"split\" the sleeper berth period, but one of the splits must be 8 hours long and the remaining 2 hours do not stop the 14-hour on-duty period. This rule is confusing and impractical for most drivers, resulting in the majority of drivers taking the full 10-hour break.\n\nIn the years since 2005, groups such as Public Citizen Litigation Group, Parents Against Tired Truckers (PATT), Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association (OOIDA), Citizens for Reliable and Safe Highways (CRASH, which has merged with PATT), and the American Trucking Associations (ATA), have been working to change the HOS again. Each group has their own ideas about what should be changed, and different agendas on why the rules should be changed.\n\nFMCSA rules prohibit driving a property-carrying CMV (e.g., trucks) more than 11 hours or to drive after having been on-duty for 14 hours. The 3-hour difference between the 11-hour driving limit and the 14-hour on-duty limit gives drivers the opportunity to take care of non-driving working duties such as loading and unloading cargo, fueling the vehicle, and required vehicle inspections, as well as non-working duties such as meal and rest breaks. After completing an 11- to 14-hour on-duty period, the driver must be allowed 10 hours off-duty.\n\nFMCSA rules prohibit drivers from operating a CMV after having been on-duty 60 hours in 7 consecutive days (if the motor carrier does not operate CMVs every day of the week), or after having been on-duty 70 hours in 8 consecutive days (if the motor carrier operates CMVs every day of the week).\n\nAfter accumulating, for example, 70 hours of driving and on-duty time within a period of 8 days, a driver's daily driving limit may be reduced (70 / 8 = 8.75 driving hours per day). A driver may be allowed (but not required) to take 34 hours off-duty to reset the weekly total back to zero (also known as a \"34-hour restart\").\n\nFMCSA rules prohibit driving a passenger-carrying CMV (e.g., commercial and city buses, passenger vans, and school buses) for more than 10 hours, or to drive after having been on-duty for 15 hours. The 5-hour difference between the 10-hour driving limit and the 15-hour on-duty limit gives drivers the opportunity to take care of non-driving work-related duties such as loading and unloading of passengers and luggage, and fueling the vehicle, as well as non-working duties such as meal and rest breaks. After completing a 10 to 15-hour on-duty period, the driver must be allowed 8 hours off-duty.\n\nThe FMCSA weekly hours limitations for passenger-carrying vehicles are identical to those for property-carrying vehicles.\n\nAfter accumulating, for example, 60 hours of driving and on-duty time within a period of 7 days, a driver's daily driving limit may be reduced (60 / 7 = 8.57 driving hours per day). The driver of a passenger-carrying vehicle may not use the 34-hour restart provision.\n\nEvery driver of a CMV is required to keep track of his/her time with a log book or an ELD. A log book is simply a notebook with a grid pattern on every page, dividing the 24-hour day into 15-minute (1/4-hour) segments. Drivers are required to make carbon copies of each page, so one page may be kept with the driver (to be produced upon inspection by DOT officers), and so the other copy may be sent to the driver's employer.\n\nElectronic Logging Devices can be thought of as an automated electronic log book. An ELD records the same information as a manual paper log book, and requires less input from the driver. The ELD automatically records driving time and location, leaving the driver responsible only for reporting on-duty and off-duty time. In these respects, the ELD is less susceptible to forgery than a paper log book.\n\nFMCSA rules require that a log book (or ELD) must record for each change of duty status (e.g., the place of reporting for work, or starting to drive), the name of the city, town or village, with state abbreviation. If a change of duty status occurs at a location other than a city, the highway number and nearest milepost or the nearest two intersecting roadways followed by the name of the nearest city must be recorded. In addition to the time grid, a log book must record the date, total miles driven for the day, truck and trailer number, name of carrier, bill of lading number, and the driver's signature. The driver is required to retain a copy of each log page for the previous seven consecutive days which must be in his/her possession and available for inspection while on-duty.\n\nThere are numerous exceptions to these rules, some of these include but are not limited to:\n\nThe HOS are issued, among other industry-related regulations, by the FMCSA. In this instance, federal regulations apply only to interstate commerce. Commerce which does not involve the crossing of state lines is considered intrastate, and is under the jurisdiction of the respective state's laws. However, most states have adopted intrastate regulations which are identical or very similar to the federal HOS regulations.\n\nEnforcement of the HOS rules is generally handled by DOT officers of their respective states, although any ordinary police officer may inspect a driver's log book. States are responsible for maintaining weigh stations commonly located at the borders between states, where drivers are pulled in for random vehicle inspections (although some of the inspections are based on the motor carrier's safety rating). Otherwise, a driver may be pulled over for random checks by police officers or DOT officials at any time. Drivers are required to maintain their log books to current status, and if inspections reveal any sort of discrepancy, drivers may be put \"out of service\" until the driver has accumulated enough off-duty time to be back in compliance. Being put out of service means a driver may not drive his truck during the prescribed limit under risk of further penalty. Repeated violations can result in fines from $1,000 to $11,000 and a downgrade in the motor carrier's safety rating.\n\nLong-haul drivers are normally paid by the mile, not by the hour. Legally, truck drivers are not required to receive overtime pay for hours worked in excess of the standard 40-hour work week. Some drivers may choose to violate the HOS to earn more money. Being paid by the mile, any work performed that is not actual driving is of no value to the driver, providing incentive to falsify the amount of time spent performing non-driving duties. Drivers who falsify their log books often under-report their non-driving duties (such as waiting to be loaded and unloaded) which they are not paid for, and under-report their driving time or total miles. Many drivers who receive mileage pay are not paid by logged miles or actual miles, instead, motor carriers use computer mapping software (such as PC Miler) or published mileage guides (such as the Rand McNally Household Goods Carriers' Bureau Mileage Guide). PATT suggests that paying all drivers by the hour would reduce HOS violations by removing the incentive to \"cheat the system\" by driving more miles than are being logged. Surveys by OOIDA report 80% of drivers are not paid for waiting times while loading and unloading, and the majority of those drivers log these times as off-duty (while regulations require they be logged as on-duty). These same drivers reported they would log these times as on-duty if they were paid reasonably for such delays.\n\nDrivers can get away with this rule-breaking due to their paper-based log books. As drivers record their time spent behind the wheel, there is very little to stop them from forging their log books. There is very superficial oversight and some drivers take advantage of this fact. Surveys indicate that between 25% and 75% of drivers violate the HOS. Other drivers maintain more than one log book, showing falsified versions to enforcement officers.\n\nTrucking companies (motor carriers) can also play a role in HOS violations. Certain carriers may choose to knowingly ignore HOS violations made by their drivers, or even encourage their drivers to do so. Allowing drivers to violate the HOS is an effective cost-cutting measure used mostly by non-union, long haul carriers. Permitting HOS violations allows a carrier to hire fewer drivers, and run on fewer trucks than a company which follows the rules. To comply with the HOS, these companies would have to hire more drivers (possibly driving up wages) and purchase additional trucks and trailers. Making a change to comply with the law is complicated by competition with carriers that already comply with HOS regulations. Due to this competition, carriers who choose to switch from non-compliance could not pass on all of their increased costs associated with HOS compliance to their customers.\n\nIn 1999, two trucking company officials were sentenced to federal prison for violating hours of service regulations. Charles Georgoulakos Jr. and his brother, James Georgoulakos were sentenced to four months in prison, eight months in home confinement, and one year of supervised release. Their company, C&J Trucking Company of Londonderry, New Hampshire, was placed on two years probation and fined $25,000 (the maximum amount). The sentences were the result of an investigation which began when one of the trucking company's drivers was involved in a collision on Interstate 93 in Londonderry on Aug. 2, 1995, in which four individuals were killed.\n\nSeveral private and public motor carriers such as Frito-Lay, United Parcel Service, and Werner Enterprises, have voluntarily implemented electronic on-board recorders to ensure drivers are in compliance with the federal regulations, to reduce the errors and hassles associated with paper log books, and to improve driver retention and recruitment. EOBRs automatically record the driving time and cannot be easily forged. Any violation of the HOS will automatically be recorded and reported to the company. \n\nThe FMCSA posted a notice of proposed rule making (NPRM) concerning Electronic logging devices (ELD's), as part of the move to require mandatory ELD's for all carriers, on January 18, 2007. On December 18, 2017, ELD rules were implemented as part of the Congressionally mandated MAP-21 Act, for all carriers subjected to the record of duty status (RODS) requirements.\n\nWhereas the 11 and 14 hour rules are still in effect, drivers will also be required to take a 30-minute break after 8 hours of on duty time. The 34 hour restart provision will still be in effect. However, drivers will only be allowed 1 restart per week (168 hours).\nUp to 2 hours either side of a sleeper-berth period while in the passenger seat will count as off-duty. Drivers inside a parked CMV who are not in the sleeper berth must log it as on-duty.\n\nThis regulation has been codified into the Final Rule, and will come into force on the 27th February 2013 (for the additional Off Duty allowances) and 1 July 2013 (for the break rules, and restart limits).\n\nHOS Final Rule \nOn December 27, 2011 (76 FR 81133), FMCSA published a final rule amending its hours-of-service (HOS) regulations for drivers of property-carrying commercial motor vehicles (CMVs). The final rule adopted several changes to the HOS regulations, including a new provision requiring drivers to take a rest break during the work day under certain circumstances. Drivers may drive a CMV only if 8 hours or less have passed since the end of the driver's last off-duty or sleeper-berth period of at least 30 minutes. FMCSA did not specify when drivers must take the 30-minute break, but the rule requires that they wait no longer than 8 hours after the last off-duty or sleeper-berth period of that length or longer to take the break. Drivers who already take shorter breaks during the work day could comply with the rule by taking one of the shorter breaks and extending it to 30 minutes. The new requirement took effect on July 1, 2013.\n\nOn August 2, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued its ruling on the Hours of Service litigation brought by the American Trucking Associations and Public Citizen. The Court upheld the 2011 Hours of Service regulations in all aspects except for the 30-minute break provision as it applies to short haul drivers. While the decision does not officially take effect until the mandate is issued 52 days after the decision (unless a party files a petition for rehearing, either by the panel or en banc, or moves to stay the mandate pending the filing of a petition for certiorari in the Supreme Court), FMCSA announces the Agency will immediately cease enforcement of the 30-minute rest break provision of the HOS rule against short-haul operations. \nThe Agency requests that its State enforcement partners also cease enforcement of this provision. States that do so will not be found in violation of the Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program (MCSAP). \nENFORCEMENT POLICY \nEffective August 2, 2013, FMCSA will no longer enforce 49 CFR 395.3(a)(3)(ii) against any driver that qualifies for either of the \"short haul operations\" exceptions outlined in 49 CFR 395.1(e)(1) or (2). The Agency requests that State and local enforcement agencies also refrain from enforcing the 30-minute rest break against these drivers. Specifically, the following drivers would not be subject to the 30-minute break requirement: \n\nAn Advanced Notice of Proposed Rule making (ANPRM) was published in August 2018, to revisit the 2013 HOS rules with possible changes that would include the 30 minute break. The ANPRM is in response to a Congressional mandate and industry concerns that may lead to hours of service rule reforms concerning the air-mile “short-haul” exemption, modification to the 14-hour on-duty limitation, revision of the current mandatory 30-minute break for truck drivers after 8 hours of continuous driving, and reinstating split-sleeper birth options.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9141879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9141879", "title": "Indian Child Welfare Act", "text": "Indian Child Welfare Act\n\nThe Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (ICWA) ((), codified at ) is a Federal law that governs jurisdiction over the removal of Native American (Indian) children from their families.\n\nICWA gives tribal governments a strong voice concerning child custody proceedings that involve Indian children, by allocating tribes exclusive jurisdiction over the case when the child resides on, or is domiciled on, the reservation, or when the child is a ward of the tribe; and concurrent, but presumptive, jurisdiction over non-reservation Native Americans' foster care placement proceedings.\n\nICWA was enacted in 1978 because of the disproportionately high rate of forced removal of Indian children from their traditional homes and essentially from American Indian cultures as a whole. Before enactment, as many as 25 to 35 percent of all Indian children were being forcibly removed, mostly from intact American Indian families, and placed in non-Indian homes, with a deliberate absence of American Indian cultures. In some cases, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) paid the states to remove Indian children and to place them with non-Indian families and religious groups. Testimony in the House Committee for Interior and Insular Affairs showed that in some cases, the per capita rate of Indian children in foster care was nearly 16 times higher than the rate for non-Indians. If Indian children had continued to be removed from Indian homes at this rate, tribal survival would be threatened. It also damaged the emotional lives of many children, as adults having been through the process testified. Congress recognized this, and stated that the interests of tribal stability were as important as the best interests of the child. One of the factors in this judgment was that, because of the differences in culture, what was in the best interest of a non-Indian child was not necessarily what was in the best interest of an Indian child, especially as they have traditionally larger extended families and tribal relationships in their culture.\n\nAs Louis La Rose (Winnebago Tribe of Nebraska) testified:\n\nI think the cruelest trick that the white man has ever done to Indian children is to take them into adoption court, erase all of their records and send them off to some nebulous family ... residing in a white community and he goes back to the reservation and he has absolutely no idea who his relatives are, and they effectively make him a non-person and I think ... they destroy him.\n\nCongress recognized that four primary factors contributed to the high rates of Indian child removal. These were 1) \"a lack of culturally competent State child-welfare standards for assessing the fitness of Indian families; 2) systematic due-process violations against both Indian children and their parents during child-custody procedures; 3) economic incentives favoring removal of Indian children from their families and communities; 4) and social conditions in Indian country.\" \n\nVarious other groups have also had stakes in these decisions. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) had an Indian Placement Program that removed Indian children from their tribes and into church members homes. By the 1970s, approximately 5,000 Indian children were living in Mormon homes. The lack of knowledge about American Indian culture by most social workers also contributed to the high removal rates. Most social workers are conditioned by the \"best interest of the child\" as outlined by \"Beyond the Best Interests of the Child (Second Edition),\" which advocates bonding with at least one adult as a parent figure. This did not take into consideration the tribal culture of the extended tribal family, in which children could have close relationships with extended family. Common American Indian practices of having a child cared for by an extended relative was viewed as abandonment by allegedly well-intentioned but arguably paternalistic social workers. But tribal members considered this normal behavior and a desirable way to ensure the child was cared for by family.\n\nDuring congressional consideration, held at the request of Native American advocacy groups, opposition was raised by several states, the LDS Church, and several social welfare groups. The bill was pushed through by Representative Morris Udall of Arizona, who lobbied President Jimmy Carter to sign the bill. It was strongly supported by Senator James Abourezk of South Dakota, who had authored the bill and previously contributed to founding the American Indian Policy Review Commission and the Select Committee on Indian Affairs, each of which he chaired.\n\nCongress's overriding purpose in passing the ICWA was to protect Indian culture and tribal integrity from the unnecessary removal of Indian children by state and federal agencies. Awareness of the issues facing American Indian children came about from the advocacy and research by the Association on American Indian Affairs. Congress reasoned that \"there is no resource that is more vital to the continued existence and integrity of Indian tribes than their children.\"\n\nIn October 2018, Federal District Court Judge Reed O'Connor struck down parts of the law as unconstitutional due to it mandating racial preference.\n\nICWA sets the minimal Federal standards for nearly all Indian child custody proceedings, including adoption, voluntary and involuntary termination of parental rights, and removal and foster care placement of Indian children, but excluding divorce and child delinquency proceedings. ICWA provides that state courts have no jurisdiction over the adoption or custody of Indian children residing within their own tribal reservation. An \"Indian child\" is \"any unmarried person who is under age eighteen and is either (a) a member of an Indian tribe or (b) is eligible for membership in an Indian tribe and is the biological child of a member of an Indian tribe.\"\n\nICWA applies to a \"child custody proceeding\" involving an Indian child. The term \"child custody proceeding\" involves: (i) \"foster care placements\", where the child has been placed in a foster home, and the parent cannot have the child returned upon demand, but where parental rights have not been terminated; (2) terminations of parental rights; (3) \"preadoptive placements\", which means placing the child in a foster home after the termination of parental rights, but before or instead of an adoption; and (4) adoptions.\n\nICWA does not cover child custody hearings during divorce proceedings. Nor does ICWA cover cases of child delinquency where the child has done something that would be considered a crime if done by an adult. Because Indian tribes play a major part in the upbringing of Indian children that is significantly different than that of the parents, the ICWA gives important jurisdictional powers to Indian tribes in order to preserve the Indian culture. Tribal courts hold either exclusive jurisdiction or concurrent jurisdiction dependent on several factors.\n\nUnder ICWA, an Indian tribe has exclusive jurisdiction over an Indian child who resides or is domiciled within the tribe's land. This includes both reservation land, other tribal lands that are held in trust by the Federal government for the benefit of a tribe or individual, or held by a tribe or individual subject to a restriction by the United States against alienation. The last two describe tribal lands such as those in Oklahoma that were transferred to individual Indians under various laws. The Indian tribal courts also have exclusive jurisdiction over Indian children who are wards of the court or tribe, regardless of their location.\n\nThe first Supreme Court case dealing with ICWA was the 1989 case \"Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield\" (490 U.S. 30, 109 S.Ct. 1597). This Court ruled that the ICWA gives the tribal court exclusive jurisdiction over a case where the parent was domiciled on the reservation, no matter what their own personal desires are in the custody case.\n\nConcurrent jurisdiction is shared jurisdiction between the tribal courts and the state courts. State courts have been severely criticized for ignoring the requirements of the law. In all cases that the tribal court does not have exclusive jurisdiction, they have concurrent jurisdiction. These cases would be custody proceedings involving Indian children that don't reside or are not domiciled on the tribal lands (such as someone born off the reservation and whose parents don't live on the reservation). In these concurrent decisions, the ICWA expresses a preference for tribal jurisdiction in Indian child custody proceedings.\n\nIn an involuntary proceeding, the party seeking the placement of the child, which is often but not always the state, must notify both the parent(s) and/or Indian custodian(s) and the child's tribe at least 10 days prior to the proceeding. Emergency proceedings may follow state law, but proceedings after that are controlled by ICWA. If the state cannot determine who the parent or the tribe is, then the state is required to notify the Secretary of the Interior. Notification must contain all the requisite information identified in 25 CFR § 23.111 and be sent by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested, and the parties notified have the right to an additional 20 days to prepare prior to the proceeding. Failure to provide such notice can cause a jurisdictional defect that may result in any such proceeding to be overturned.\n\nThe ICWA case may be dismissed for lack of due process if not for the lack of jurisdiction \"because ' \"failure to give proper notice of a dependency proceeding to a tribe with which the dependent child may be affiliated forecloses the participation by the tribe, [ICWA] notice requirements are strictly construed.\" ' .\" \n\n\"The determination of a child's Indian status is up to the tribe; therefore, the juvenile court needs only a suggestion of Indian ancestry to trigger the notice requirement.\" \n\nThe MOWA Band of Choctaw Indians, a tribe that is federally recognized by the U.S. Federal Government but is not recognized for services of the Bureau of Indian Affairs under 25 C.F.R 83 et al. are used for precedent for many cases whereby the following conditions apply:\n\nIn cases whereby the mother may not be a member of the tribe, however she is eligible, then before the provisions of ICWA apply, \"the trial court must initially determine if a child is an Indian child within the meaning of ICWA.\" This is because \"a parent's current enrollment is not always dispositive of a child's membership in an Indian tribe\". The finding in the case of the children involved was \"In the matter of C.H. et al., 510 N.W.2d (S.D. 1993) that the MOWA Band of Choctaw Indians were held to be a Federally Recognized tribe for the purposes of ICWA.\n\nThe child may be provided an attorney, and the parents are entitled to one if they are indigent and cannot afford one. If the state does not have provisions for providing indigent parents an attorney, the Secretary of the Interior is to pay the attorney expenses.\n\nAll of the parties have the right to examine all documents and reports related to the proceeding.\n\nIn a removal case, the party seeking the removal (normally Child Protective Services or similar agency) is required to make active efforts to provide the parent or custodian with remedial and rehabilitative services designed to prevent the removal of the child from the Indian family. The \"active effort\" requirement also applies even if the party seeking removal is a private party, as in a private party adoption. The child may not be temporarily removed unless there is a likelihood of \"serious emotional or physical damage\" to the child if they remain in the home.\n\nThe tribe and parents or Indian custodian of the Indian child have an unqualified right to intervene in a case involving foster care placement or the termination of parental rights . The intervention may be at any time, and not just at the beginning of the proceedings. This right does not apply to pre-adoption or adoption proceedings unless it also includes the termination of parental rights.\n\nIn a foster care or termination of parental rights case where the tribe and the state exercise concurrent jurisdiction, the tribe, either biological parent, or the Indian custodian may move to transfer the case from the state court to the tribal court.\n\nA biological parent, whether Indian or non-Indian may object to and veto a proposed transfer of a case to tribal court. A prospective parent, the Indian child, or another party may object, but may not veto a transfer, and those objections would be covered under the \"good cause\" provision. In the event that a parent vetoes the transfer, the case will remain in state court. This is most commonly seen where one of the parents is non-Indian.\n\nThe tribal court may decline to accept the transfer of a case from a state court. An example is where the parents move to transfer the case, but the tribe declines to accept jurisdiction due to a lack of funding for programs that would support the child and the parents at the tribal level that are present at the state level. Note that a tribal court may not be a traditional tribunal, but may be any other administrative body empowered by the tribe to act on child custody matters.\n\nOne aspect of the ICWA that may provide the most hope for Native American families is the requirement of active efforts with the existing family to rehabilitate the root cause prior to removal of the child. Many tribes are focusing on intercession prior to crisis. By engaging at risk families, and providing services, the family may be healed and the outcome for both the child and the family is changed dramatically for the better. Focus on remediation and rehabilitative services to protect the family, unique services that are geared to tribal values are offered, to help parents understand their roles as parents in the culture. Early intervention and support helps caregivers and families achieve better outcomes by addressing parenting skills, addictions, domestic violence and housing instability. Results in an study of intervention/support indicated 81% preservation of the existing family, or placed with extended family. By working with ICWA and the tribes to create preventative services that are culturally sensitive, outcomes can be dramatically changed. Those services need not be limited to tribal members, but also available to foster and adoptive families to help connect with the child's cultural roots.\n\nA state court may decline to transfer a case for \"good cause,\" but that term is not defined in the ICWA. The BIA has issued an advisory set of guidelines for state courts to use in determining \"good cause.\" While these guidelines are not mandatory, many states have adopted them, and they include:\nThe BIA has also set out factors that state courts may \"not\" consider when determining whether good cause exists. These are binding regulations, effective as of December 12, 2016. The prohibited factors are:\n\nIn 1982, the Kansas Supreme Court held that the ICWA \" was not to dictate that an illegitimate infant who has never been a member of an Indian home or culture, and probably never would be, should be removed from its primary cultural heritage and placed in an Indian environment over the express objections of its non-Indian mother.\" Under the facts of the case, the court stated that the ICWA did not apply unless the child was part of an \"existing Indian family unit.\" The court denied the Kiowa Tribe of Oklahoma the right to intervene in the case, stating that the ICWA did not apply. The court also held that even if the ICWA did apply, the trial court committed no reversible error because the non-Indian mother would have objected to the transfer of the case to a tribal court and, thus, defeated the transfer.\n\nFrom the Kansas Supreme Court case sprang a body of jurisprudence around the \"existing Indian family\" exception to ICWA. In the years following the Kansas \"Baby Boy L.\" case, approximately half of the states adopted or expanded upon this \"existing Indian family\" exception, despite the fact that the language appeared nowhere in the text of the ICWA.\n\nSubsequent to the Kansas \"Baby Boy L.\" case, in 1989, the United States Supreme Court heard \"Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield.\" Like the \"Baby Boy L.\" case, both parents in \"Holyfield\" consented to the voluntary termination of their parental rights and adoption of their infant by a non-Indian family. Unlike the parents in \"Baby Boy L.\", the mother in this case lived on the reservation both before and after the birth of the child off-reservation. The Supreme Court found that the child was \"domiciled\" on the reservation because its biological mother was domiciled on the reservation. Therefore, the exclusive jurisdiction of the tribal court under ICWA should have been invoked. The case was remanded to the tribal court for a custody determination three years after the child had been placed with non-Indian adoptive parents. Noting the potential disruption in the child's life, the Supreme Court noted that any potential harm could have been avoided if the parents and state court had not wrongfully denied the tribe its rights under ICWA.\n\nWhile the Supreme Court did not consider the \"existing Indian family\" exception, some sources cite \"Holyfield\" as an implicit rejection of the exception. Other sources have noted that the \"Holyfield\" case is relied upon as support for both sides of the debate over the \"existing Indian family\" exception:\n\nSurprisingly, \"Holyfield\" has been relied upon by courts and parties both to support and reject the existing Indian family exception, which has been invoked in proceedings involving Indian children and families who are living off the reservation and who are, therefore, subject to state court jurisdiction concurrent with that of the tribal court.\n\nAs of 2010, Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, and Tennessee still use the \"existing Indian family\" exception. Alabama and Indiana have limited its application by further court decisions. Nineteen states have rejected the doctrine, either by court decision or statute, including Kansas, where the Kansas Supreme Court expressly overturned the \"Baby L.\" decision in \"In re A.J.S.\", stating:\n\nGiven all of the foregoing, we hereby overrule Baby Boy L., (citation omitted), and abandon its existing Indian family doctrine. Indian heritage and the treatment of it has a unique history in United States law. A.J.S. has both Indian and non-Indian heritage, and courts are right to resist essentializing any ethnic or racial group. However, ICWA's overall design, including its \"good cause\" threshold in 25 U.S.C. 1915, ensures that all interests—those of both natural parents, the tribe, the child, and the prospective adoptive parents—are appropriately considered and safeguarded. ICWA applies to this state court child custody proceeding involving A.J.S., and the Cherokee Nation must be permitted to intervene.\n\nIn June 2016, the Department of Interior specifically rejected the existing Indian family exception. The regulations reflect not only that courts who rejected the doctrine were correct to do so, but also that \"Congress did not intend to limit ICWA's applicability to those Tribal citizens actively involved in Indian culture.\" \n\nSome critics have complained that the existing Indian family exception requires the state court to determine what it means to be an Indian child or an Indian family, by applying tests to determine the \"Indian-ness\" of the child. One such test involved evaluating if the child lived \"in an 'actual Indian dwelling,' apparently thinking of a teepee, hogan, or pueblo.\" Another work notes that \"state courts have taken it upon themselves to determine individuals' relationship with their tribes by examining such contacts as subscription to a tribal newsletter.\"\n\nIn her 1997 testimony before the Joint Hearing of the House Resources Committee and the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, Assistant Secretary of the Interior Ada Deer (Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin) stated:\n\n... we want to express our grave concern that the objectives of the ICWA continue to be frustrated by State court created judicial exceptions to the ICWA. We are concerned that State court judges who have created the \"existing Indian family exception\" are delving into the sensitive and complicated areas of Indian cultural values, customs and practices which under existing law have been left exclusively to the judgment of Indian tribes ... We oppose any legislative recognition of the concept.\n\n\"Foster care placement\" is defined as \"any action removing an Indian child from its parent or Indian custodian for temporary placement in a foster home or institution or the home of a guardian or conservator where the parent or Indian custodian cannot have the child returned upon demand, but where parental rights have not been terminated\".\n\nThe Supreme Court issued a decision pertaining to the ICWA in the case \"Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl\", on June 25, 2013. In a 5-4 opinion delivered by Justice Samuel Alito, the Supreme Court held that the heightened standard required under § 1912(f) of ICWA does not apply when the parent in question never had physical or legal custody of the child.\n\nIn 2017 the Supreme Court declined to intervene in the case of a Choctaw girl in a jurisdiction case involving the girl's relatives and a non Indian couple who tried to adopt the girl in question\n\nBarbara Kingsolver's 1994 novel \"Pigs in Heaven\" deals with ICWA and its impact on Native American children and their adoptive parents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2772959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2772959", "title": "Interlocutory appeal", "text": "Interlocutory appeal\n\nAn interlocutory appeal (or interim appeal), in the law of civil procedure in the United States, occurs when a ruling by a trial court is appealed while other aspects of the case are still proceeding. Interlocutory appeals are allowed only under specific circumstances, which are laid down by the federal and the separate state courts.\n\nAn appeal is described as interlocutory when it is made before all claims are resolved as to all parties. For instance, if a lawsuit contains claims for breach of contract, fraud and interference with contractual advantage, and if there are three defendants in this lawsuit, then until all three claims are resolved as to all three defendants, any appeal by any party will be considered interlocutory. The American courts disfavor such appeals, requiring parties to wait until all the claims as to all parties are resolved before any appeal can be brought to challenge any of the decisions made by the judge during the life of the case. \"Although the general rule requires finality in order for a matter to be appealable, there are exceptions arising principally from court rules that permit appeal of interlocutory matters under specific circumstances.\"\n\nInterlocutory appeals may be brought, however, if waiting to bring an appeal would be particularly prejudicial to the rights of one of the parties. For example, if a party is asserting some form of immunity from suit, or is claiming that the court completely lacks personal jurisdiction over them, then it is recognized that being forced to wait for the conclusion of the trial would violate their right not to be subjected to a trial at all. Alternatively, the trial judge can \"certify\" one of his orders for immediate interlocutory appeal. Suppose all the claims and issues have been resolved as to one of the defendants, but the rest of the parties will be fighting out the case for another year or ten. The trial judge could \"certify\" (i.e. signal his agreement) to allow the part of the cases that is concluded at trial level to be appealed.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States delineated the test for the availability of interlocutory appeals, called the collateral order doctrine, for United States federal courts in the case of \"Lauro Lines s.r.l. v. Chasser\", holding that under the relevant statute () such an appeal would be permitted only if:\n\n\nThe Supreme Court created the test in the case \"Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp.\", where it was applied to a requirement of bond to be posted in certain stockholders derivative actions by plaintiffs, in anticipation of being liable for defendant's attorney's fees. Since the substantial deterrent effect of the statute would be meaningless if not enforceable at the outset of litigation, but did not touch on the merits of plaintiff's claim, the Court allowed interlocutory appeal from the trial court's decision. The doctrine was restricted in \"Digital Equipment Corp. v. Desktop Direct Inc.\", which added an explicit importance criterion to the test for interlocutory appeals, holding that relief on a claim of immunity from suit because of a previous settlement agreement could not come through interlocutory appeal. The Supreme Court stated that the only matters of sufficient importance to merit a collateral appeal were \"those originating in the Constitution or statutes\".\n\nSeveral U.S. statutes directly confer the right to interlocutory appeals, including appeals from orders denying arbitration, and some judicial actions against the debtor upon filing bankruptcy proceedings. There is a major split in the United States courts of appeals as to whether a stay of proceedings should issue in the district court while interlocutory appeals on the arbitrability of disputes are decided. An interlocutory appeal under the collateral order doctrine usually merits a stay of proceedings while the appeal is being decided. Currently, the Second and Ninth Circuits have refused to stay proceedings in the district court while an arbitration issue is pending. The Seventh, Tenth and Eleventh Circuit courts conversely hold that a non-frivolous appeal warrants a stay of proceedings.\n\nIn California, interlocutory appeals are usually sought by filing a petition for writ of mandate with the Court of Appeal. If granted, the writ directs the appropriate superior court to vacate a particular order. Writs of mandate are a discretionary remedy; such petitions are almost always denied due to the state's public policy of encouraging efficient litigation of civil actions on the merits in the superior courts.\n\nIn New Jersey, \"[t]he discretionary jurisdiction of the Appellate Division over appeals taken from interlocutory decisions of lower courts and of state administrative officers and agencies exists as a result of the combination of constitutional provisions and court rules.\" \"The standard set out in the Rules of Court for determining whether to grant leave to appeal an interlocutory decision is, simply, that 'the Appellate Division may grant leave to appeal, in the interest of justice.'\"\n\nIn New York, various interlocutory appeals can be found under the Civil Practice Law and Rules section 5701. This section, along with a writ of mandamus are the only exceptions to filing an appeal only after the final judgment has been given.\n\nIn North Carolina, the trial court judge may certify an interlocutory order for an appeal. Notably, such certification is not binding on the North Carolina Court of Appeals, meaning that the North Carolina Court of appeals is free to refuse to review an interlocutory appeal even though the trial court had certified it. On the other hand, even when the trial court does not certify on order for immediate appeal, the North Carolina Court of Appeals may grant a writ of certiorari to review an interlocutory appeal on the basis of the so-called \"substantial right.\" Whether the North Carolina Court of Appeals concludes that a substantial right is affected and decides to grant of a writ is not always easily predictable. The North Carolina has adopted a two-part test for the appropriateness of an appeal of an interlocutory order: Whether a substantial right is affected by the challenged order and whether this substantial right might be lost, prejudiced, or inadequately preserved in the absence of an immediate appeal. As the North Carolina Court of Appeals itself said on many occasions, \"the substantial right test is more easily stated than applied.\" Some rights that the North Carolina Court of Appeals has recently found to be substantial are: the right to conduct business and get paid.\nA notable exception to the rule that all orders are interlocutory until the final issue is resolved is the issue of unresolved attorney's fees. In 2013, the Supreme Court of North Carolina clarified that all appeals can and must be taken from the trial courts' orders even if the attorney's fees were still unresolved. \nIn 2013 the North Carolina lawmaking body substantially liberalized the appeals from the decisions of North Carolina family law courts (i.e., the divorce courts, applying N.C. Gen. Stat. §50). Until 2013, the litigants had to wait until the trial court resolved all divorce related issues until they could appeal any of the trial court's orders. For instance, an order resolving alimony could not be appealed until the court also resolved child support, division of property, and child custody. The new law N.C. Gen. Stat. 50-19.1 allows divorcing spouses to appeal each of these unrelated orders as soon as they are entered.\n\nIn Louisiana, parties to both civil and criminal cases may apply for supervisory writs in one of the state's five geographic Circuit Courts of Appeal, seeking to review a ruling or order of the district court. As the name implies, the Court of Appeal's power to consider a writ application stems from its supervisory jurisdiction over the district courts. Such jurisdiction is discretionary, and thus the appellate court may issue an action granting or denying the writ, or may decline to consider the merits of an application altogether. In practice, taking writs is far more common in criminal matters and most often involves objections to a district court's pre-trial rulings on defense motions to suppress evidence, statements, or identifications. An application for supervisory writs is also the mechanism for seeking review of a district court's decision to grant or deny a petition for post-conviction relief. A party aggrieved by the Court of Appeal's ruling on a supervisory writ may then apply for supervisory writs in the Louisiana Supreme Court.\n"}
{"id": "28185720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28185720", "title": "International Coffee Agreement", "text": "International Coffee Agreement\n\nThe International Coffee Agreement (ICA) is an international commodity agreement between coffee producing countries and consuming countries. First signed in 1962, it is aimed at maintaining exporting countries' quotas and keeping coffee prices high and stable in the market, mainly using export quotas to steer the price. The International Coffee Organization, the controlling body of the agreement, represents all major coffee producing countries and most consuming countries.\n\nThe current 2007 agreement has 42 exporting members and 7 importing (the European Union represents all its member states as one member).\n\nThe original agreement was signed in 1962 for a five-year period, and since then there have been six subsequent agreements, ratified in 1968, 1976, 1983, 1994, 2001 and 2007.\n\nThe precursor to the ICA was the Inter-American Coffee Agreement (IACA) established during the Second World War. The war had created the conditions for a Latin American coffee agreement: European markets were closed off, the price of coffee was in decline and the United States feared that the declining price could drive Latin American countries—especially Brazil—towards Nazi or Communist sympathies.\n\nIn 1940, the United States agreed to restrict its imports to a quota of 15.9 million bags, and other Latin American countries agreed to restrict their production. The agreement had an immediate effect, the price almost doubled by the end of 1941. After the end of the war in 1945 the price of coffee rose continuously until 1955–57 when a degree of equilibrium was reached.\n\nProducers sought ways to maintain the price, this led to the first International Coffee Agreement. A target price was set, and export quotas allocated to each producer. When the indicator price set by the International Coffee Organization (ICO) fell below the target price, quotas were decreased; if it rose above it, quotas were increased. Although the system had its problems, it was successful in raising and stabilizing the price.\n\nThe International Coffee Organization was established in 1963 to administer the clauses of the agreement and supervise the mechanisms in place. Until 1986 the Coffee Council, the decision-making body of ICO, approved export quotas.\n\nIn 1989, ICO failed to reach an agreement on new export quotas, causing the 1983 ICA to break down. The disagreement was triggered by consumers' change in taste towards milder and higher quality coffee. With the retained quotas from the 1983 agreement, the change increased the value of milder coffee at the expense of more traditional varieties such as robusta. Brazil in particular – the world's most powerful coffee producer – refused to reduce its quotas believing it would lower their market share. The consumers, led by the United States, demanded higher quality coffee and the end of selling coffee to non-members at reduced rates.\n\nThe US criticized Brazil for not being willing to accept a reduction of the country's quotas despite falling share of the world market since 1980. Jorio Dauster, head of the state-controlled Brazilian Coffee Institute, described Brazil as an \"extremely efficient producer\" and believed it could survive without help from ICO.\n\nThe 1983 ICA was set to expire on 1 October 1989, but realizing that it would be impossible to enter into a new agreement before the termination date, the Coffee Council (ICO's highest body) effectively decided to suspend the export quotas on 4 July 1989. Without an extended agreement producing countries lost most of their influence on the international market. ICO's average indicator price for the last five years previous the end of the regime fell from US$1.34 per pound, to US$0.77 per pound for the first five years after.\n\nAccording to Yves Engler's \"Canada in Africa\", \"no longer worried about the prospect of poor coffee producers turning towards the Soviet Union, the US withdrew its support from the International Coffee Agreement in 1989.\"\n\nThe current 2007 ICA entered into force on 2 February 2011 when it was approved by two-thirds of the exporting and importing signatory governments. , it has 51 members, of which 44 are exporting members, and 7 importing (the European Union represents all its 28 member states). According to ICO, its members represent 97% of all coffee production and 80% of the consumption.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "394357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394357", "title": "International waters", "text": "International waters\n\nThe terms international waters or trans-boundary waters apply where any of the following types of bodies of water (or their drainage basins) transcend international boundaries: oceans, large marine ecosystems, enclosed or semi-enclosed regional seas and estuaries, rivers, lakes, groundwater systems (aquifers), and wetlands.\n\nInternational waters have no sovereignty, ergo is \"Terra nullius\" as no state controls it. All states have the freedom of: fishing, navigation, overflight, laying cables and pipelines, as well as research.\n\nOceans, seas, and waters outside national jurisdiction are also referred to as the high seas or, in Latin, \"mare liberum\" (meaning \"free sea\"). The Convention on the High Seas, signed in 1958, which has 63 signatories, defined \"high seas\" to mean \"all parts of the sea that are not included in the territorial sea or in the internal waters of a State\" and where \"no State may validly purport to\nsubject any part of them to its sovereignty.\" The Convention on the High Seas was used as a foundation for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, signed in 1982, which recognized Exclusive Economic Zones extending 200 nautical miles from the baseline, where coastal States have sovereign rights to the water column and sea floor as well as the natural resources found there.\n\nShips sailing the high seas are generally under the jurisdiction of the flag state (if there is one); however, when a ship is involved in certain criminal acts, such as piracy, any nation can exercise jurisdiction under the doctrine of universal jurisdiction. International waters can be contrasted with internal waters, territorial waters and exclusive economic zones.\n\nSeveral international treaties have established freedom of navigation on semi-enclosed seas.\n\n\nOther international treaties have opened up rivers, which are not traditionally international waterways.\n\n\nCurrent unresolved disputes over whether particular waters are \"International waters\" include:\nIn addition to formal disputes, the government of Somalia exercises little control \"de facto\" over Somali territorial waters. Consequently, much piracy, illegal dumping of waste and fishing without permit has occurred.\n\nAlthough water is often seen as a source of conflict, recent research suggests that water management can be a source for cooperation between countries. Such cooperation will benefit participating countries by being the catalyst for larger socio-economic development. For instance, the countries of the Senegal River Basin that cooperate through the Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Sénégal (OMVS) have achieved greater socio-economic development and overcome challenges relating to agriculture and other issues.\n\n\nAt least ten conventions are included within the Regional Seas Program of UNEP, including:\n\nAddressing regional freshwater issues is the 1992 Helsinki Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes (UNECE/Helsinki Water Convention)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33841956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33841956", "title": "Kevin Reynolds (priest)", "text": "Kevin Reynolds (priest)\n\nKevin Reynolds is an Irish Catholic priest who was falsely alleged in a news feature on RTÉ (the national television network of Ireland) to have raped and impregnated a Kenyan teenager. A scandal ensued when the allegations were discovered to be false, which generated intensive media coverage and political debate in Ireland, resulting in a government inquiry into the broadcaster.\n\nThe allegations were made in a report by journalist Aoife Kavanagh titled \"Mission to Prey\", which aired in May 2011 on the \"Prime Time\" programme. Kavanagh alleged that during his time as a missionary in Kenya, Reynolds had raped and impregnated a minor named Veneraanda, fathering a child called Sheila. Kavanagh also alleged that Reynolds had secretly provided financial support to Sheila over a number of years. Both Veneranda and Sheila were interviewed on the programme to corroborate the allegations. The events were purported to have taken place in the Diocese of Kakamega in Kenya.\n\nPrior to the broadcasting of the show, Reynolds volunteered to have DNA testing undertaken to prove his innocence but this offer was refused by RTÉ. Later, two separate and independent DNA tests established that Reynolds was not the father of the child. With this it emerged that the allegations were entirely baseless. However, as a result of the broadcast, Reynolds was removed from his home and his parish ministry.\n\nWhen it became public knowledge that Reynolds had been falsely accused, RTÉ broadcast an apology to him. \"Prime Time\" Investigates, the series on which the allegations were broadcast, was immediately suspended. The Director-General of RTÉ, Noel Curran, admitted the broadcasting of \"Mission to Prey\" was \"one of the gravest editorial mistakes ever made\" at RTÉ. RTÉ staff, including Mike Murphy, John Bowman and Sean O'Rourke, publicly criticised the libel.\n\nThe head of the Irish Missionary Union said that Aoife Kavanagh's continuing presence on \"Morning Ireland\" after being found guilty of defaming Reynolds was \"unfair and unjust\" and a demonstration of \"double standards\" in the media.\n\nIn November 2011, Reynolds agreed to an out-of-court libel settlement with RTÉ. The amount of the settlement was not disclosed. His solicitor also requested that the Irish justice minister, Alan Shatter, \"clarify that he accepts that Fr Reynolds was guilty of no wrongdoing\", in response to Shatter's previous public support of \"Mission to Prey\" when it was broadcast in May 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "9959968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9959968", "title": "Landman (oil worker)", "text": "Landman (oil worker)\n\nA Landman or \"Petroleum Landman\"—in the United States and Canada—is an individual who performs various services for oil and gas exploration companies. According to the website of the American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL), these services include but are not limited to: negotiating for the acquisition or divestiture of mineral rights; negotiating business agreements that provide for the exploration and/or development of minerals; determining ownership in minerals through the research of public and private records; reviewing the status of title, curing title defects and otherwise reducing title risk associated with ownership in minerals; managing rights and/or obligations derived from ownership of interests in minerals; and unitizing or pooling of interests in minerals.\n\nSince the services provided by the landman to the oil and gas exploration industry and other industries are so varied it is not uncommon for a landman to specialize in several different aspects of the profession at the same time. The term \"landman\" and nuances thereof also apply to women who practice the land management profession although a larger majority of practitioners continue to be men.\n\nNumerous other industries, in addition to the petroleum industry, often require the skills and expertise of the landman, one of which is the wind industry. Wind development requires the locating of surface sites for turbines, determining surface ownership, negotiating lease agreements, and has many other similar duties performed by the petroleum landman. Telecommunications, pipeline, power and transportation projects, linear in nature, are generally right-of-way (ROW) projects and usually staffed by ROW agents. The terms \"landman\" and \"right-of-way agent\" are often used interchangeably; however, their duties often vary significantly. Landmen typically deal with site-specific projects (drill site) and leases, whereas ROW agents deal with linear corridor projects that can cross interstate and usually involve easement conveyance.\n\nA particular degree is often not required of someone interested in becoming a landman, though it is favored. Few universities offer a petroleum land management degree but Western State Colorado University \"Western\", the University of Oklahoma, the University of Tulsa, the University of Louisiana Lafayette, Texas Tech University and University of Calgary are among those that do. The first and largest petroleum land management program was created in 1958 at the University of Oklahoma. It has since been re-branded as the \"Energy Management Program\". The AACSB International Southwestern Business Deans Association honored the program with The Most Innovative in Excellence Award for Curriculum Design.\n\nSomeone interested in becoming a landman without obtaining a degree might go to the county courthouse and approach researchers in the Recorder's Office or Records Room. Oftentimes, the individuals seen researching here are landmen. No experience is needed to take photos of books, and offering this service can be a foot in the door. Attempting to \"shadow\" a landman in a courthouse that you do not know is an easy way to get blackballed in that county, as some individuals will go to courthouses specifically to try to poach areas from other companies. Other times, individuals may contact a company looking for landmen that is open to training someone with no experience in the field.\n\nCompensation or salary varies and is dependent on many factors such as experience, geographic location and the number of qualified landmen available in a given area. Many lawyers are practicing landmen and landmen/oil and gas attorneys. Due to the collapse in energy prices in the late 1980s which lasted for nearly two decades, into the early 2000s, most landmen who survived were retiring and most universities and colleges that offered petroleum land management degrees no longer did so. The resulting attrition combined with the spike in energy prices in the mid-2000s reversed the trends of earlier years and created a significant shortage of available landmen. The subsequent global financial collapse that began in 2008 once again reversed the boom and employment opportunities will likely continue their cyclical nature for years to come.\n\nThe American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL) is an organization of professional landmen, who agree to a standard code of ethics, a mission statement and other policies. The AAPL offers certifications recognized throughout the industry as indicators of competency, proficiency and professionalism. AAPL offers three certifications that are proven to enhance a member’s credibility in the industry and to increase earning potential for landmen.\n\nIndividuals who began their career or worked as a landman include:\n\nOne of the best known fictional landmen was John Brewster, played by the actor Frank Wilcox, on the television series \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" in the early 1960s. He was a landman for \"The Tulsa Oil Company\" who secured the lease for Jed Clampett's acreage and later got Jed to serve on its board of directors.\n"}
{"id": "53630607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53630607", "title": "Law and the Modern Mind", "text": "Law and the Modern Mind\n\nLaw and the Modern Mind is a 1930 book by Jerome Frank which argued that judicial decisions were more influenced by psychological factors than by objective legal premises.\n\nFrank, then a legal academic, published the book after having undergone six months of psychoanalysis. In it, he argued against the \"basic legal myth\" that judges never make law but simply deduce legal conclusions from premises that are clear, certain, and substantially unchanging. Drawing on psychologists such as Sigmund Freud and Jean Piaget, Frank proposed that judicial decisions were motivated primarily by the influence of psychological factors on the individual judge. Like his judicial hero, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., Frank urged judges and legal scholars to acknowledge openly the gaps and uncertainties in the law, and to think of law pragmatically as a tool for human betterment. The book \"dropped like a bombshell on the legal and academic world\", quickly becoming \"a jurisprudential bestseller\" which \"was widely noticed as well as criticized\".\n"}
{"id": "33305962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33305962", "title": "Law of succession in South Africa", "text": "Law of succession in South Africa\n\nThe manner in which assets are distributed depends on whether the deceased has left a valid will or other valid document containing testamentary provisions, such as an antenuptial contract. If the deceased has not left a valid will or valid document containing testamentary provisions, the deceased dies intestate; similarly, if the deceased leaves a valid will which does not dispose of all property, there is an intestacy as to the portion not disposed of. In the event of intestacy, the assets are distributed in a definite order of preference among the heirs, as stipulated by the Intestate Succession Act. Until recently, the Act (and its common-law precursor) existed side-by-side with a statutorily-regulated customary-law regime of intestate succession, applied on a racial basis, but this was brought to an end when the Constitutional Court, in Bhe v Magistrate, Khayelitsha, made the Intestate Succession Act applicable to all.\n\nWhere the deceased dies leaving a valid will, the rules of testate succession apply. These are derived from common law and the Wills Act. Testate succession is governed by the general premise that the assets of the deceased are distributed in accordance with the provisions of the will. If specified property is left to a person, the disposition is termed a “legacy.” Legacies are distributed first; any residue in the estate is given to the person, if any, who is appointed as heir. If the will appoints more than one heir, the residue is divided among them.\n\nThe law of succession comprises two branches, namely the common law of succession and the customary law of succession. These enjoy equal status and are subject to the Constitution of South Africa and other legislation. The common law of succession is divided into the testate law of succession and the intestate law of succession, whereas the customary law of succession only operates intestate.\n\nThere are various rules for determining whether the common-law rules or the customary-law rules are applicable:\n\n\nSuccession may take place in three ways:\n\n\nThe capacity to have rights and duties is called legal subjectivity, which is terminated by death. The consequences of the termination of legal subjectivity are as follows:\n\n\nWhen a person dies, everything remaining of his assets (once debts, obligations and administrative costs have been reclaimed) passes by inheritance to those qualified to succeed him.\n\nThe law of succession is the totality of the legal rules which control the transfer of those assets of the deceased which are subject to distribution among beneficiaries, or those assets of another over which the deceased had the power of disposal.\n\nIf there is a valid will which sets out the wishes of the testator, the estate is administered in terms of the law of testate succession. A will is a unilateral declaration regarding how the estate is to be apportioned. A person may make also bequests in terms of an ante-nuptial contract. Both natural and juristic persons may be beneficiaries in terms of a will.\n\nIf there is no will, or if the will is invalid, the estate devolves in terms of the law of intestate succession.\n\nThere are a few requirements (with exceptions) that must be fulfilled before the rules of succession can come into operation:\n\n\nIn both the common and customary law of succession (in the case of property), a prerequisite for succession is that the owner of the estate must have died. In customary law, succession to status positions takes place only on the death of a family head, while the deaths of another family member does not give rise to succession to his or her status. The application of the rule is illustrated in \"Estate Orpen v Estate Atkinson\".\n\nAlthough the requirement of the death of the testator seems so obvious, it is not always a simple matter. There are various examples of situations where the application of the rule has been problematic or deviated from.\n\nThe first exception to the rule that a person must be dead before succession can occur, is where a court pronounces a presumption of death and makes an order for the division of the estate. Those who allege that a person is dead have to prove it. Where the body is present and can be identified, death can easily be proved. However, where a person has disappeared and a body has not been found, death is difficult to prove. Only when a court makes a presumption of death order can the disappeared person's estate be administered. Because it is possible that the deceased might still be alive, this case constitutes an exception to the rule that he or she must be dead before succession can occur. For this reason, it is also customary for a court to order that the estate of the person presumed to be dead should be distributed amongst his heirs subject to the provision of security that the estate can be returned to him should he reappear. Factors which a court may take into consideration in making such an order include the length of time that the person has been missing, the age, health and position in society of the missing person, as well as the circumstances of the disappearance. The principles applicable to judicial presumption of death have been reviewed in detail by the higher courts.\n\nBeneficiaries must be alive at the time of the testator's death, unless the testator makes provision for the benefit of persons born later. Death is proved by reporting the death to the Master and obtaining a death certificate signed by a medical practitioner. This is important: Without proof of death, the estate cannot be administered, and one's affairs cannot remain indefinitely in limbo.\n\nIn such circumstances, a person may approach the High Court for an order, granted on a balance of probabilities, presuming the death of another person. The effect of the order is to create a rebuttable presumption that the specified person is dead. The court may later reverse the order if the presumption is rebutted; it may also order that all persons who received a benefit from the devolved estate return the assets in terms of the law of unjustified enrichment.\n\nIf a person cannot get a presumption order, he may apply for an order for administration of the estate. In this case, all beneficiaries must furnish security for the assets received.\n\nA second exception to the rule that a person must be dead can be found in the case of estate massing. When estates are massed, the entire estates or parts of the estates of various testators are consolidated into a single economic unit for the purpose of testamentary disposal. The effect of estate massing is that the surviving testator's estate dissolves according to the will of the first-dying whilst he or she is still alive.\n\nEither party to a mutual will may, while both are alive, revoke his or her share of the mutual will with or without communication to the other party. But after the death of one party the survivor may not revoke his or her share of the mutual will where both the following further conditions or circumstances occur:\n\n\nThe term “massing” will first be explained, then the survivor's election will be discussed, and thereafter effect of the survivor repudiating or accepting benefits respectively will be considered.\n\nMassing is a disposition by the testators in a mutual will of their joined property or of a portion of it in favour of the survivor, giving him or her a limited interest in the joined property, and providing that on his or her death such property is to go to some other person or persons. The limited interest conferred on the survivor is, as a rule, either a usufructuary or a fiduciary interest. For example, the testators leave “all property belonging to us to our children, subject to a usufruct in favour of the survivor;” in this case the survivor acquires a usufructuary interest in the massed property. Or, again, the testators may leave “our joint estate to the survivor, and after the death of the survivor to our children;” in this case the survivor acquires a fiduciary interest.\n\nIt will be seen that the effect of massing, if carried out, is to give the survivor one benefit and to deprive him or her of another. The survivor acquires a beneficial interest in the property of the first-dying which otherwise (in the absence of any will) the survivor would not have obtained, but the survivor no longer has the full ownership of his or her own share of the property which otherwise he or she would have retained. The survivor, however, is not bound to allow the mutual will to be carried into effect. If the survivor accepts the benefit, he or she must also accept the loss of an interest in his or her own property; the survivor cannot accept the benefit without its accompanying liability. It follows that the survivor has a choice or election whether to abide by the terms of the mutual will or to repudiate them.\n\nWhether the survivor has elected to abide by the terms of the mutual will or to repudiate them is a question of fact. The election is generally effected by the survivor in his or her capacity as executor (for the survivor is usually appointed executor testamentary) in framing the liquidation and distribution account. If the survivor takes the interest in the share of the first-dying in terms of the mutual will the survivor is deemed to have accepted the benefits and to have adiated. Vice versa, the survivor is held to repudiate the terms of the will if he or she does not take the interest in the share of the first-dying but assigns the estate of the deceased to the other beneficiaries.\n\nIf the survivor elects to abide by the will, or “adiates,” the survivor can be relieved of the consequences of such action if the survivor acted under a reasonable and excusable ignorance of his or her legal rights, but not if the survivor erroneously thought that adiation would be of greater benefit than it turned out to be. If, after adiation, a new will is discovered which adds to or alters the provisions of the earlier will, the survivor has a further opportunity to adiate or repudiate.\n\nIf the survivor elects to take no benefit under the mutual will and thereby repudiates the will he or she is not bound by its terms. It follows that the survivor reverts to the legal position which he enjoyed before the death of the testator. The survivor accordingly may revoke his or her share of the mutual will, retain personal property and be free of the will's terms. The consequence is that the mutual will remains in force only in so far as it is the will of the first-dying and it operates only upon the latter's share of the property.\n\nIf the survivor accepts the benefits under the mutual will he or she becomes bound by its terms. The survivor is consequently under an obligation (of a contractual or quasi-contractual nature) to allow the jointly disposed of property to devolve in terms of the joint will. In other words, the mutual will now comes fully into operation and the survivor cannot revoke his or her share of it. The mutual will operates in effect as the will of the first-dying party and the survivor is a beneficiary under that will.\n\nThe rights of the ultimate beneficiaries in the massed estate have undergone considerable change. Under the common law their rights in the first-dying testator's share of the massed property were real rights, being conferred by will, while their right in the survivor's share were personal rights only since they were of a semi-contractual nature and since the will of one person cannot confer a real right in the property of another person. It followed that the survivor retained the dominium in his or her share of the property even after adiation, and could thus validly alienate or mortgage such share. If the survivor went insolvent after adiation and before transfer of the property to’ the beneficiaries the latter would rank merely as concurrent creditors in the insolvent estate. To remedy this state of affairs a vitally important change was made in 1913 by the Administration of Estates Act in respect of mutual wills of spouses married in community of property. Where such a will effected a massing and the survivor adiated, the Act in effect placed the two halves of the joint estate upon exactly the same footing by giving the beneficiaries the same rights in respect of the survivor's half as they possessed in the half of the first-dying spouse. Given the state of the common law at the time this meant that the beneficiaries acquired real rights in the entire estate. Under the modern system of administering deceased estates, however, the beneficiaries under a will acquire only personal rights against the executor before transfer to them of the bequeathed property.\n\nIt follows in the case of a massed estate that the ultimate beneficiaries acquire personal rights only in the first-dying's share of the estate and thus, by virtue of the legislation, in the half of the survivor too, on his or her adiation. This remains the position under the Administration of Estates Act of 1965, which re-enacted the earlier provision in somewhat wider terms, as follows: “If any two or more persons have by their mutual will massed the whole or any specific portion of their joint estate and disposed of the massed estate or of any portion thereof after the death of the first-dying, conferring upon the survivor or survivors any limited interest in respect of any property in the massed estate, then upon the death after the commencement of this Act [October 2, 1967] of the first-dying, adiation by the survivor or survivors shall have the effect of conferring upon the persons in whose favour such disposition was made, such rights in respect of any property forming part of the share of the survivor or survivors of the massed estate as they would by law have possessed under the will if that property had belonged to the first-dying.”\n\nThe 1965 Act, unlike the 1913 Act, is not, it is submitted, confined to spouses married in community of property despite the use of the words “joint estate” in the quoted extract. The intention of the legislature seems clear.\n\nIt must be noted that if the mutual will masses not the whole, but a portion merely of their estates, the will is irrevocable by the survivor in respect of the massed portion only.\n\nAnother aspect worth mentioning, occurs when a number of people are killed in the same disaster (\"commorientes\") and it is difficult to determine who died first. It might be important to be able to determine who died first in order to choose the beneficiaries, especially if the victims are family members. It could happen that the estate of the victims is devolved as if they died simultaneously whilst in actual fact one or more of them died at a later time.\n\nConsider the following example: Corbin and Armand die in a plane crash in which there are no survivors. In terms of Corbin's will, Cameron is his only heir. Corbin's estate is only worth R100. In terms of Armand's will, Corbin is her only heir, and Armand was wealthy. If Corbin died after Armand and could first inherit from him, then Cameron, who inherits from Corbin, is in a favourable position. Cameron would want to prove that Armand died before Corbin. If Corbin and Armand died simultaneously and on impact, Corbin cannot inherit anything from Armand, as he was not alive at \"dies cedit\": that is, upon Armand's death.\n\nThe cardinal rule is that an heir, in order to inherit, must survive or outlive the deceased. When two persons die at the same time, it is important to know who died first, so as to determine if they may inherit.\n\nIn Roman-Dutch law, certain presumptions existed when members of the same family died in circumstances where it was difficult to determine who died first. It was always presumed that the wife died first. In England, there was a presumption that, when two persons died at the same time, the older of the two had died first.\n\nThe South African courts, however, did not apply these presumptions. The general rule is that, where there is no evidence of who survived whom, it is to be presumed that they died simultaneously. In \"Greyling v Greyling\", a husband and wife were killed in a car accident. According to the evidence, the husband probably lived longer than his wife. In their joint will, the spouses had a provision to the effect that, if they died simultaneously, their estate had to devolve in a certain way. The Court held that the words \"gelyktydig te sterwe kom\" (to die simultaneously) meant the death of the testators as the result of a single incident, irrespective of the fact that there was a difference in the exact time at which they died.\n\nThis ground rule is linked to the issue of \"dies cedit\" and \"dies venit\". The fact that there has to be a transfer of rights and/or duties with regard to the bequest and/or status of the deceased can also be regarded as a ground rule of the law of succession. Somebody must take the place of the deceased testator with regard to ownership of his assets, or in the case of customary law, with regard to status. In the case of the common law of succession, there is a transfer of rights (and sometimes also responsibilities) which belonged to the deceased.\n\nIn the case of the customary law of succession, the situation is more complicated. It depends on the type of property and the status of the deceased. In general, it can be said that succession to status positions takes place only after the death of a family head. Distinction is made between general succession (succession to the general status of the deceased) and special succession (succession to the position of the head of the various houses of the deceased). Although there have been exceptions to the rule, succession to status is mainly limited to male. Succession follows the rule of male primogeniture, which means that a family head is succeeded by his firstborn son of a particular house.\n\nThe transfer of rights (and occasionally also responsibilities) is a prerequisite for succession. There must be somebody on whom the rights (or responsibilities) can devolve. Where a beneficiary has already died (is predeceased) when the bequeathed benefit vests, there can be no succession except if the deceased made provision in his or her will or antenuptial contract for the predecease of the beneficiary or in circumstances where \"ex lege\" substitution applies.\n\nAn exceptional situation is where a beneficiary has been conceived but not yet born when the bequeathed benefit vests. Since an unborn child is incapable of bearing rights and cannot inherit, the vesting of the bequest is held over until the child is born alive. This situation is referred to as the nasciturus fiction (a common law concept) in terms of which a child who survives birth is regarded as having obtained rights from the moment of conception, provided that conception took place before the death of the testator.\n\nCustomary law does not have a similar fiction, but some communities have customs that are meant to produce heirs for a husband after his death. \"Ukungena\", for example, is a custom which expects a widow to marry one of her husband's brothers after his death. If a man dies childless, the custom of \"ukungena\" allows for the continuation of his family line. Another custom, \"ukuvusa\", allows for the natural heir of the deceased (for example, his brother) to take the deceased's property and then to take a wife who will be regarded as the deceased's wife and whose children will be known as the deceased's children. It is, however, difficult to determine to what extent these customs are still followed by indigenous communities. In addition, the nasciturus fiction has been codified in the testate law of succession by section 2D(l)(c) of the Wills Act, which provides that any benefit allocated to the children of a deceased shall vest in such children as are alive at the time of the devolution of the benefit, or as have already been conceived at the time of the devolution of the benefit and who are later born alive.\n\nThe mere fact that somebody has been named as heir or legatee in a will, or in terms of the rules of intestate succession, does not necessarily mean that the person has the right to the relevant benefit. Although most persons are competent to inherit, there are some who do not have the competence to take up a benefit in terms of a specific will. There are also certain persons who are not competent to benefit intestate from a specific deceased.\n\nIn customary law, the competence of the beneficiary is often linked to the rule of male primogeniture. The customary rule of male primogeniture was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court in \"Bhe v Magistrate, Khayelitsha\". This case brought about fundamental changes to the customary law of succession and the administration of estates.\n\nThe aggregate of assets and liabilities of the deceased is termed the \"deceased estate\". The deceased estate is not a juristic person. Consequently, the only legal person in connection with the estate is the executor in his representative capacity. The estate ‘vests’ originally in the Master of the High Court, and subsequently in one or more executors, appointed by the Master, who bear the responsibility of administering the estate:\n\n\nDue to this administration process, the estate does not initially vest in the heir. The executor becomes the legal ‘owner’ of the assets. The executor, however, acquires the bare \"dominium\" only, and not the beneficial use and enjoyment of the assets. Similarly, the debts of the deceased are binding on the executor in his representative capacity only.\n\nIt follows that the executor alone can sue and be sued in respect of estate matters. Legal proceedings are brought or defended by the executor acting in a representative capacity, for the executor is the legal representative of the deceased. A legatee, for example, has no \"locus standi\" to claim from a third person assets which the former alleges to form part of the estate; still less does the heir acquire the ownership of the assets upon the death of the testator: The heir has merely a vested claim (personal right) against the executor, enforceable after confirmation of the liquidation and distribution account.\n\nThe estates of all persons, whether dying testate or intestate, are administered and wound up by executors under letters of executorship granted to them by the Master of the High Court. If the deceased's will appoints specified persons as executors, the Master grants the letters to such persons; they are termed \"executors testamentary\".\n\nWhere no executors are appointed by will, and after consulting the heirs, the legatees and the creditors of the deceased, the Master appoints one or more persons as executors; they are termed \"executors dative\".\n\nExecutors testamentary who are conferred the power of assumption by a will may appoint co-executors; the latter are termed \"executors assumed\".\n\nAn estate is wound up when it has fallen into possession and is cleared of liabilities, and so left free for enjoyment by the beneficiaries. The executor's first duty is to gather in all the estate's assets in the possession of other persons, unless the Master of the High Court authorises such other persons to retain the property. Excluded from ingathering are life assurance benefits, retirement assets, and assets held in trust.\n\nDebts due to the deceased include not merely pecuniary debts, but also any other obligations which can be specifically performed, such as an obligation to transfer land to the deceased. The executor may enforce such an obligation even if the deceased has died insolvent.\n\nIt is not the duty of an executor to realise the estate assets—that is, to turn them into money—unless the will directs him to do so, or unless it is necessary to raise money in order either to pay estate debts or to divide the assets properly among the beneficiaries. If empowered by the will, the executor may carry on the business of the testator, but without the authority of the court he may not pledge the credit of the estate in order to maintain it as a going concern.\n\nThe next duty of the executor is to settle the liabilities against the deceased's estate, after satisfying himself that the estate is solvent, and after framing and lodging a liquidation and distribution account, to which there has been no valid objection, with the Master of the High Court within six months from the date of death.\n\nAn executor is liable in respect of any contractual obligation of the deceased which could have been enforced against him had he been alive, unless the obligation is of a personal nature or was clearly not intended by the parties to be transmissible. It follows that the executor must not only pay the pecuniary debts of the deceased, but must also perform obligations incurred by the deceased to transfer or to grant real rights in his property (like a sale of his land, or a contract to grant a servitude over his land, or a lease, or a mortgage).\n\nThe debts due by the estate include the deceased's obligation to maintain his spouse and minor children (and, in appropriate circumstances, even major children) if the benefits coming to them from the deceased's estate are insufficient to maintain them. Such a claim is preferent to the claims of heirs and, if the inheritances are insufficient, to the claims of legatees, but it cannot compete with the claims of normal creditors.\n\nThe executor is liable for the debts only to the extent of the assets in the estate. If the estate is solvent, the executor must pay the creditors as soon as funds sufficient for that purpose have been raised out of the estate, subject to there being no valid objection to his liquidation and distribution account. If the executor does not have sufficient free cash in hansets belonging to the estate in order to raise the necessary amount, but he may not sell assets bequeathed as legacies unless there are no other assets to meet the debts.\n\nIf the estate is insolvent, the executor must inform the creditors of this fact in writing; thereafter, provided he is instructed by a majority in number and value of all the creditors to surrender the estate under the Insolvency Act, he must realise and distribute the estate in terms of the procedure laid down for insolvent estates in the Administration of Estates Act.\n\nAfter lodging a liquidation and distribution account to which there has been no objection, or any objections made have been overruled by the court, the executor must distribute the balance of the assets to the beneficiaries. Where there is no will, the assets are distributed among the heirs according to the rules of intestate succession; where there is a will, the assets are distributed according to the provisions of that will. In the latter case, the legacies are paid or distributed first, the balance going to the heirs; the consequence is that the heirs are in effect residuary legatees.\n\nThe distribution of the assets to the beneficiaries is effected:\n\n\nas the case may be. If a usufruct or other limited interest in immovable property has been bequeathed to any person, along with a direction that, upon the expiry of the interest, the property shall devolve upon some uncertain person, the executor must, instead of transferring the property, ensure that the terms of the will are endorsed against the title deeds. An endorsement is intended to safeguard the contingent rights of the uncertain persons; it does not vest the ownership or any other real right in them.\n\nUnder the Roman-Dutch system of universal succession, the beneficiaries’ right to their portions of the deceased's assets was a real right, since the right was said to vest in the beneficiaries at the death of the deceased, without any formal delivery or transfer; so it was said that a real right is conferred on the beneficiaries, be they legatees or heirs.\n\nHowever, after adoption of the English system of estate administration in the 19th century, the beneficiaries’ right to inherit is no longer absolute, nor is it assured. If the deceased's estate, after confirmation of the liquidation and distribution account, is found to be insolvent, none of the beneficiaries will obtain any assets at all. In the case of a legacy, the legatee will obtain the property bequeathed to him only:\n\n\nIn any event, an heir may not vindicate from a third person property which the heir alleges forms part of the deceased estate; only the executor has that power.\n\nIt follows from these considerations that an heir or legatee does not, upon the death of the testator, acquire the ownership of the assets; he merely has a vested claim (personal right) against the executor for payment, delivery or transfer of the property comprising the inheritance. This claim is enforceable only when the liquidation and distribution account has been confirmed. The heir or legatee, in fact, becomes owner of movable property only on its delivery, and of immovable property on its registration.\n\nThe modern position, therefore, is that a beneficiary has merely a personal right, \"ius in personam ad rem acquirendam\", against the executor; he does not acquire ownership by virtue of a will. The heir obtains ownership, or a lesser real right (such as a usufruct), only on delivery or transfer in pursuance of a testamentary disposition or intestate succession. Consequently, succession is merely a \"causa habilis\", or appropriate cause, for transfer of ownership.\n\nIf an executor pays the heirs or legatees more than they were entitled to, there is unjustified enrichtment, so the executor may recover the excess from them by means of the \"condictio indebiti\". Similarly, an executor may reclaim from concurrent creditors an overpayment made to them if the estate is subsequently found to be insolvent.\n\nBy virtue of the Estate Duty Act, estate duty is payable on all property of a deceased person, and on all property which is deemed to be his property at the date of death.\n\nThe executor's duty is finished when the estate has been liquidated and distributed. Once the estate is distributed, the executor is entitled to be discharged as executor by the Master. Frequently, however, a will directs that the estate property or some portion of it must not be distributed immediately, but must be administered by some person, who is termed the testamentary “trustee” or “administrator.” It then becomes the duty of the executor to cause the terms of the will, insofar as they relate to the administration of the immovable property, to be endorsed against the title deeds of such immovable property.\n\nThe will usually, but not always, appoints the same persons as executors and as trustees. The functions of an executor and of a trustee are, however, quite separate and distinct. Further, the source of their authority is different. While the Master has the power of appointment of executors, a trustee's authority is derived from the will or some other document executed by the testator.\n\nWhere the executors are also appointed trustees, they first have to perform their duties as executors, and then as trustees. In the latter capacity, they have to administer and deal with the balance of the assets as directed by the will. The trustees must keep the assets properly invested, due regard being had to the production of fruits and the safety of the corpus of the estate.\n\nA trustee must furnish security to the satisfaction of the Master for the due and faithful performance of his duties, unless he has been exempted from doing so by a court order or by the Master or in terms of the will. In the latter case, the Master may override the terms of the will and insist on security being furnished, if the Master is of the opinion that there are sound reasons for doing so.\n\nCollation is an obligation imposed by law on all descendants who wish to share as heirs in the estate of their ancestor, either by will or on intestacy. The obligation is to account to the estate for any gifts or advances received by them from their ancestor, or debts incurred to him, during his lifetime.\n\nCollation is effected by adding to the inheritance the amount due by each heir. The new total is then divided among all the heirs. An heir cannot, as long as he refuses to collate, enforce legal remedies to claim his share of the inheritance.\n\nThe basis of collation is that a parent is presumed to have intended that there should be equality in the distribution of his estate among his children. Collation, however, may be dispensed with by the will of a testator, or waived by those entitled to the benefit thereof.\n\nAmong the classes of property which must be collated is property which has been given to a descendant\n\n\nA descendant is expected to collate debts due by him to the ancestor, whether arising from contract, delict or any other source. This is the case even if the debt has prescribed by lapse of time, been extinguished under the provisions of the Agricultural Credit Act, or been discharged by the insolvency and the subsequent rehabilitation of the descendant.\n\nIndeed, since the executor is obliged to recover all debts owing to the estate, for the benefit of creditors as well as beneficiaries, it is only debts that are not legally recoverable that should be collated. On the other hand, money spent on the maintenance of the descendant need not be collated; nor need money spent on his education, nor a simple and unconditional gift—provided that such expenditure is not substantial in relation to the ancestor's means and disproportionate to what other descendants have received.\n\nThe only persons liable to collate are descendants who are heirs on intestacy, or who are heirs under a will of an ancestor (provided that they would have been his heirs had there been no will); a hence a grandchild, whose father is alive, and who is an appointed heir under his grandfather's will, need not collate. If his father is dead, however, he must collate not only what he has received from his grandfather, but also amounts his father received.\n\nCollation applies only to heirs who have adiated. If an inheritance is repudiated, the heirs who receive the inheritance by accrual will be required to collate what the repudiating heir would have had to collate.\n\nLegatees and pre-legatees are not liable to collate unless the will provides to the contrary.\n\nThe only persons who may insist on collation, and share in the benefit thereof, are\n\n\nIt follows, therefore, that legatees who are not obliged to collate, and the estate's creditors who can recover their debts in the ordinary course, cannot benefit from what is collated.\n\nThe persons upon whom the testator's inheritance devolves are the called the beneficiaries. Beneficiaries may be divided into two categories:\n\n\nAnyone may be appointed as an heir or a legatee, including a natural person, a fixed or fluctuating class of persons, a company, a public corporation or a government department.\n\nAn heir inherits\n\n\nA testator may nominate one heir or many heirs. An heir may be nominated in a will or in an antenuptial contract. An heir may also inherit intestate.\n\nLegatees are beneficiaries in testate succession only. They inherit a specific or determinable asset (like a car) or a specified amount of money (exactly R10,000, for example). A legatee may be nominated only in a will or in an ante-nuptial contract. It is not possible for legatees to exist where the deceased died intestate.\n\nA pre-legacy is a special bequest which has preference over all other bequests in terms of the testamentary instructions.\n\nThe testator may only bequeath his assets, or the assets of a third party, by means of a legacy.\n\nA legacy will fail under the following circumstances:\n\n\nThe differences between heirs and legatees may be summarised as follows:\n\n\nHeirs and legatees have no obligation to receive an inheritance; they have the choice to accept or reject what has been bequeathed. In this context,\n\n\nAcceptance of a benefit under a will, generally referred to as “adiation,” is the act of a beneficiary in signifying an intention to take the benefit. A beneficiary is not obliged to accept a benefit under a will. However, if he accepts the benefit, he incurs any liability which may be involved in it. The general rule is that a person is assumed to have adiated unless he expressly repudiates. Nothing express or explicit is required by way of acceptance.\n\nThe acceptance of an unconditional benefit, therefore, is generally taken for granted, but not where the acceptance involves a liability, in which event the beneficiary has a choice or election whether to accept or to repudiate the benefit. For example, where the will leaves property to a person on condition that he or she pays a sum of money to another person, or that he or she gives another person some of his or her own property, or that he or she maintains and supports some other person.\n\nThe Wills Act provides that if any descendant of a testator, excluding a minor or mentally ill descendant, who together with the surviving spouse of the testator, is entitled a benefit in terms of the will, renounces his or her right to receive such a benefit, such benefit shall vest in the surviving spouse. Where the surviving spouse does not stand to inherit, and unless the will indicates otherwise, the renounced benefit must devolve on the descendants of that descendant per stirpes.\n\nThe effect of adiation is that the heir or legatee acquires a vested personal right against the executor for delivery of the asset once the estate has been liquidated.\n\nThe effect of repudiation is enunciated in the relevant provisions of the Wills Act and the Intestate Succession Act. The former provides as follows:\n\nIf any descendants of a testator, excluding a minor or a mentally ill descendant, who, together with the surviving spouse of the testator, is entitled to a benefit in terms of a will renounces his right to receive such benefit, such benefit shall vest in the surviving spouse.\nIf a descendant of the testator, whether as a member of a class or otherwise, would have been entitled to a benefit in terms of the provisions of a will if he had been alive at the time of death of the testator, or had not been disqualified from inheriting, or had not after the testator’s death renounced his right to receive such a benefit, the descendants of that descendant shall, subject to the provisions of subsection (1), \"per stirpes\" be entitled to the benefit, unless the context of the will otherwise indicates.\n\nThe Intestate Succession Act contains the following provisions:\n\nIf a descendant of a deceased, excluding a minor or mentally ill descendant, who, together with the surviving spouse of the deceased, is entitled to a benefit from an intestate estate renounces his right to receive such a benefit, such benefit shall vest in the surviving spouse.\nIf a person is disqualified from being an heir of the intestate estate of the deceased, or renounces his right to be such an heir, any benefit which he would have received if he had not been so disqualified or had not so renounced his right shall, subject to the provisions of subsection (6), devolve as if he had died immediately before the death of the deceased and, if applicable, as if he was not so disqualified.\n\nThe general rule is that all persons, born or unborn, natural or juristic, and regardless of their general legal capacity—minor children, too, therefore—may take validly any benefit conferred on them by will or on intestacy. There are, however, various factors that may influence a beneficiary's capacity to inherit. Persons who have limited legal capacity are still capable of inheriting. However, their ability to enjoy their inheritance as they see fit is affected.\n\nA conceived but unborn \"foetus\" (the \"nasciturus\") is not a legal subject, but the law takes into account the fact that, in the normal course of events, the \"foetus\" will one day \"become\" a legal subject. The \"nasciturus\" fiction states that, if an advantage accrues whilst a child, later born alive, is a foetus, he is deemed to have the requisite legal personality from the time that the benefit accrues.\n\nThe requirements for the \"nasciturus\" fiction are\n\n\nIntestate succession and division of assets are postponed until there is certainty as to whether the \"foetus\" is born alive or not, to see whether the \"nasciturus\" fiction is applied.\n\nTestate succession looks at the intention of the testator:\n\n\nThe fiction will apply unless it has been specifically excluded from the will.\n\nThe fiction has gained statutory recognition in the Wills Act.\n\nAdopted children are regarded, for all purposes, as the natural children of their adopted parents. The legal link between the child and his actual biological parents is severed, therefore.\n\nUnder the common law, extra-marital or illegitimate children were not qualified to inherit from their father's intestate estate, but could inherit from that of their mother. There is no longer any distinction between legitimate and extra-marital children; both are now in the same position.\n\nAn indignus beneficiary (which is to say, an unworthy beneficiary) is precluded from inheriting because his conduct makes him unworthy, in a legal sense, to take a benefit from the deceased's estate. The basis for this ground of disqualification lies in the general principle that no-one may benefit from his own wrongdoing, or from conduct which the law regards as punishable. This principle is expressed by the maxim \"de bloedige hand neemt geen erf\" (the bloodied hand may not benefit). Unworthiness is not a general principle; an individual can only be unworthy in respect of a particular person or that person's \"conjunctissima\" (parent, spouse or child).\n\nThere are common-law and statutory grounds for disqualification that prevent beneficiaries from inheriting, and the courts have, over time, developed the law relating to these. Although the courts have recognised certain conduct as distasteful, the grounds of unworthiness are not limited. In consequence, and relying on prevailing values of public policy, new grounds of unworthiness may arise in the future. Instances where the courts have rendered a person unworthy to inherit are as follows:\n\nBelow are listed various categories of unworthy persons. It is not a closed list.\n\nA person may not inherit who, by fraud, duress or undue influence, has induced the testator to make a disposition in his or her favour. The amount of pressure which leads to the invalidity of a disposition on the ground of undue influence depends on various factors, such as the mental state of the testator and the relationship between the persons concerned.\n\nA person who induces the deceased to lead an immoral or degrading lifestyle may not inherit either.\n\nThis can be either the intentional or negligent unlawful causing of death of another. At common law, somebody who has negligently caused the death of a deceased (of the testator's conjunctissimi) is also unworthy of inheriting from the deceased. It is evident, therefore, that unworthiness is not contingent on a criminal act.\n\nWhere, therefore, the deceased does not die immediately, and does not revoke a bequest conferred on the killer, the latter is still precluded from inheriting. It is an open question whether a person who has killed his spouse may claim the survivor's share in terms of the matrimonial property regime governing their marriage.\n\nA person is only disqualified if he caused the death of the deceased unlawfully and intentionally. If a person has successfully raised a defence of justifiable homicide, this is a full defence, and the accused is entitled to inherit from the deceased.\n\nA person who is incapable of forming the necessary intention will not be regarded as being unworthy to inherit.\n\nForging, hiding or destroying a will is not only civil wrong (in that a person who does so will not be entitled to inherit); it is also a criminal wrong (in terms of section 102 of the Administration of Estates Act). A person is guilty of a crime, therefore, who steals, wilfully destroys, conceals, falsifies or damages a will, and may not inherit in terms of that will.\n\nA pension benefit is not considered to be an asset of a deceased estate. Pension benefits are dealt with outside the estate. The deceased may not bequeath these benefits to an heir or legatee. If pension benefits are due to the deceased, the trustees will decide to whom they are awarded. The \"bloedige hand\" principle has been extended to cover pension benefits.\n\nWhen taking out an insurance policy, one must nominate a beneficiary. The \"bloedige hand\" principle has been extended to cover insurance benefits.\n\nSection 4A(1) of the Wills Act disqualifies four categories of people form receiving a benefit from a will:\n\n\nFor the purposes of this provision, “any benefit” includes nomination as an executor, trustee or guardian. The rationale for such disqualifications is that they prevent fraud.\n\nA beneficiary will not be disqualified, however, in the following circumstances:\n\n\nSection 4A does not apply where a beneficiary under a will witnesses a subsequent codicil made by the testator; similarly, a witness to a will may take a benefit under a subsequent codicil made by the testator.\n\nAnimals are not legal persons and, therefore, may not be beneficiaries in a will. When receiving a benefit, the heir must sign a receipt; obviously animals are unable to do so. Provision may be made for animals, however: trust funds to care for them, conditions that a person only inherits if they take care of the animal, etc.\n\nWhere an heir who is a descendant of the testator, whether as a member of a class or otherwise, is disqualified from inheriting on any one of the grounds treated above, the benefit that he would have received devolves to his descendants per stirpes. This statutory rule is subject to there being no contrary intention in the will. It is implied that if the heir was NOT a descendant of the testator, then the benefit he/she would have received will NOT devolve upon his/her descendants per stirpes.\n\nAlthough the customary law of intestate succession has been abolished to a great extent by means of court judgments, there are customary law impediments influencing a beneficiary's capacity to inherit in terms of the customary law of succession. Cognisance must be taken of certain rules if a testator uses the principle of freedom of testation to stipulate in his or her will that the customary law of succession must apply.\n\nIntestate succession takes place whenever the deceased leaves property which has not been disposed of by valid testamentary instrument. In other words, the law of intestate succession applies only:\n\n\nIntestacy may be total (applying to the whole of the assets left by the deceased) or partial (applying to a portion only of his assets), for the deceased may die partly testate and partly intestate: for example, if the deceased bequeaths his car to his son but does not mention the rest of his estate.\n\nIntestacy is total when none of the assets are disposed of by a valid will: for example, where there is no will at all, or only a will which is void, or which has been revoked. Intestacy is partial when the deceased has left a valid will which, however, does not dispose of all his assets; in this event there is an intestacy as to the undisposed residue. This may happen in many circumstances: for example,\n\n\nFurthermore, intestacy can occur if certain conditions in an otherwise valid will are not fulfilled, or if benefits have been repudiated and no provision has been made for substitution, and accrual cannot take place.\n\nThe law of intestacy was virtually codified by the Intestate Succession Act, which came into force on 18 March 1988. Before that, the South African system of intestate succession had to be construed from a variety of common-law and statutory rules. The law of intestate succession is rooted in the legislation of the States of Holland: the Political Ordinance of 1 April 1580, as clarified and amended by the Interpretation Ordinance of 13 May 1594 and Section 3 of the Placaat of 18 December 1599.\n\nIn 1621 the \"Heeren XVII\" of the Dutch East India Company instructed the government of the Dutch East Indies to enforce these enactments, and the States-General decreed them to be in force in Cape Colony by the Octrooi of 10 January 1661, which was confirmed by Governor Pasques de Chavonnes on 19 June 1714.\n\nThe main common-law principles of intestacy were derived from a combination of two systems, somewhat in conflict, which prevailed prior to 1580 in the Netherlands: the \"aasdomsrecht\", the law of North Holland and Friesland, which meant “the next in blood inherits the properties”, and the \"schependomsrecht\", the law of South Holland and Zeeland, which meant “the properties return to the line whence they came”. Under both systems, the property of an intestate person went to the deceased's blood relations only: in the first place, to his descendants; failing them, to his ascendants and collaterals. There were several important differences in the manner of devolution.\n\nThe 1580 Ordinance adopted the \"schependomsrecht\" distribution \"per stirpes\", restricting it in the case of collaterals to the fourth degree inclusive. Finally, the 1599 Placaat compromised between the two systems with respect to distribution, and gave one half of the estate to the surviving parent, and the other half to the descendants of the deceased parent.\n\nThe above laws conferred a right of succession on intestacy on the deceased's blood relations, but none on a surviving spouse or an adopted child, and furthermore restricted the intestate succession rights of the extra-marital child. Because marriage in community of property was the norm, such a spouse \"ipso facto\" took half of the joint estate.\n\nInitially, the word \"spouse\" in the Intestate Succession Act was restrictively interpreted to mean only those spouses who had contracted a marriage in terms of the Marriage Act. This interpretation has since been extended by case law, in recognition of the modern perception that there is a need to protect the interests of surviving spouses. The common law, as derived from the two different systems that applied in Holland, has been adapted on numerous occasions by legislation. The most important such legislation was probably the Succession Act, in terms of which the surviving spouse, whether married in or out of community, was granted a right to a share in the intestate estate of the deceased spouse.\n\nThe Intestate Succession Act of 1987 instituted a much simpler system of intestate succession, revoking common-law rules and all statutory adaptations in their entirety. The Intestate Succession Act, together with the Children's Act, extended the categories of persons who may be heirs who take in intestacy. For example, all natural persons, irrespective of whether they are adopted or extra-marital, or conceived by artificial insemination, or born as a result of a surrogacy arrangement, nowadays have the capacity to inherit.\n\nThe Intestate Succession Act applies, except as explained below, in all cases where a person dies wholly or partially intestate after March 18, 1988. Under the Act, the surviving spouse and the adopted child are heirs of the deceased. The historical discrimination visited on extra-marital children has disappeared. The position of adopted children is now dealt with in the Child Care Act.\n\nUntil recently, the application of the Intestate Succession Act was regulated on a racial basis. Certain intestate estates of African people were distributed according to the \"official customary law,\" as entrenched in the Black Administration Act and its regulations, while the Intestate Succession Act applied to the rest of the population. The Black Administration Act, and the Regulations passed thereunder, provided that the estates of black people who died without leaving a valid will sometimes devolved according to “Black law and custom.” This meant, inter alia, that the reforms introduced by the Intestate Succession Act did not apply to spouses married in terms of African customary law. As far as children were concerned, the parallel system of African customary law of succession perpetuated discrimination against adopted, extra marital and even female children.\n\nThis racial disparity in the treatment of spouses and children disappeared when the Constitutional Court, in \"Bhe v Magistrate, Khayelitsha\", extended the provisions of the Intestate Succession Act retrospectively, as from April 27, 1994, to all intestate heirs, irrespective of race.\n\nWhile the Intestate Succession Act is important, one cannot discount case law when determining the rules of intestate succession. If and when the RCLSA is promulgated into law, it, too, will be relevant for determining South Africa's intestate-succession laws.\n\n\nSouth Africa uses the Roman-Dutch parentelic system to reckon kinship and determine distribution in intestacy. The term parentela refers to a particular parental group and its descendants:\n\n\nAnd so the \"parentelae\" go on. Essentially, the lowest \"parentela\" wins and takes the entire estate, and parentelic heads trump others within the same \"parentela\".\n\nA stirp may be translated literally as a branch. In the present context, therefore, it includes the surviving child of a deceased, as well as a predeceased child survived by descendants.\n\nWhen determining how many \"stirpes\" there are, one should pay attention to the immediate descendants of the deceased and then see if they are alive or if their descendants are alive.\n\nRepresentation arises when an heir cannot, or does not wish to, inherit from the deceased. In this case, the descendants of the heir may represent the heir to inherit.\n\nIf the deceased is married at the time of his death, the property system that applies to his marriage is of utmost importance since it affects the distribution of the deceased's estate. In terms of the Recognition of Matrimonial Property Act, the first marriage of a male with more than one wife is always considered to be in community of property. If a second marriage is entered into, the parties must enter into an antenuptial contract, which will regulate the distribution of the estate.\n\nEssentially, there are four forms of marital regimes recognised by the courts:\n\n\nWith regard to marriages in community of property or in community of profit and loss, the surviving spouse automatically succeeds to half of the joint estate (\"communio bonorum\"); the remaining half devolves according to the rules of intestate succession.\n\nWith regard to marriages in separation of property, the entire estate devolves according to the rules of intestate succession.\n\nWith regard to the accrual system, where one spouse's estate shows no or lesser accrual than that of the other spouse, the lesser-accruing spouse has a claim for an amount equal to half of the difference between the two net accrued estates. The equalization payment must be dealt with first as a claim against or in favour of the estate. The balance thereafter must devolve according to rules of intestate succession.\n\nIf a husband has an estate of R100,000 at the start of his marriage, and R200,000 at the end of the marriage, R100,000 will have accrued. If his wife, at the start of her marriage, has an estate worth R50,000, and at the end of the marriage worth R100,000, the amount accrued will be R50,000. If the husband dies, the difference in the accrual of both estates is R50,000; therefore the wife has a claim for half of the accrued amount: R25,000. Thereafter the remainder of the estate will devolve in terms of the rules of intestate succession.\n\nThe question of who in fact the heirs are is normally determined as at the date of the death of the deceased. Where, however, the deceased leaves a valid will which takes effect on his death, but subsequently fails, either wholly or in part, the intestate heirs are determined as at the date on which it first became certain that the will had failed.\n\nSection 1(1)(a) to (f) of the Intestate Succession Act contains the provisions in terms of which a person's estate is to be divided. In terms of this section, there are ten categories which indicate who will inherit. Section 1(2) to (7) contains certain related provisions.\n\nWhere the deceased is survived by a spouse, but not by a descendant, the spouse inherits the intestate estate. “Spouse” includes\n\n\nWhere the deceased is survived by a descendant, but not by a spouse, the descendant inherits the intestate estate. The estate is divided into as many equal portions as there are surviving children and deceased children who leave descendants. Each surviving child takes one share, termed a “child’s share,” and the share of each deceased child is divided equally among his surviving children and each group of descendants of a deceased child. This process is known as representation per stirpes; it continues ad infinitum.\n\nAn adopted child is deemed, for all purposes, to be the legitimate child of its adoptive parent. An order of adoption terminates all rights and obligations existing between the child and its natural parents (and their relatives). It follows that an adopted child inherits upon the intestacy of its adoptive parents and their relatives, but not upon the intestacy of its natural parents and their relatives.\n\nUnder Roman-Dutch law, an illegitimate or extra-marital child inherited upon the intestacy of its mother, but not of its father. This limitation on the capacity of the extra-marital child to inherit on intestacy has been swept away by the Intestate Succession Act, which provides that, in general, illegitimacy shall not affect the capacity of one blood relation to inherit the intestate estate of another blood relation. Illegitimacy arising from incest, too, no longer presents a problem. Furthermore, as noted earlier, the tenuous position of extra-marital children under African customary law of succession, too, has been removed by making the Intestate Succession Act applicable to all children.\n\nWhere the deceased is survived by one spouse, as well as by a descendant, the surviving spouse inherits whichever is the greater of\n\n\nThe descendant or descendants inherit the residue (if any) of the intestate estate.\n\nTo calculate a child's share, the estate is divided into as many children's shares as stated above, plus an additional share, which the surviving spouse takes.\n\nWhere the deceased is survived by more than one spouse, a child's share in relation to the intestate estate of the deceased is calculated by dividing the monetary value of the estate by a number equal to the number of children of the deceased who have either survived or predeceased the deceased, but who are survived by their descendants, plus the number of spouses who have survived the deceased. Each surviving spouse inherits whichever is the greater of\n\n\nThe descendant or descendants inherit the residue (if any) of the intestate estate. Where the assets of the deceased are not sufficient to provide for each spouse with the amount fixed by the Minister, the estate is divided between the surviving spouses.\n\nThe share inherited by a surviving spouse is unaffected by any amount to which he or she might be entitled in terms of the matrimonial-property laws.\n\nWhere the deceased leaves neither a spouse nor a descendant, but is survived\n\n\nIn relation to the descendants of a parent of the deceased, division of the estate takes place per stirpes. Representation is allowed ad infinitum.\n\nIn this case, the surviving parent will inherit half of the estate, and the descendants of the deceased parent will inherit the residue \"per stirpes\" by representation.\n\nIn this case, the surviving parent is the sole heir.\n\nWhere the deceased is not survived by a spouse or descendant or parent, but is survived by descendants of his parents (by a brother or sister, for example, whether of the full or half blood), the intestate estate is divided into halves, one half going to the descendants of the deceased father by representation, the other half to the descendants of the deceased mother. The full brothers and sisters of the deceased consequently take a share in both halves of the estate, while the half-brothers and -sisters take a share in one half only of the estate. If, however, all the surviving descendants are related to the deceased through one parent alone, such descendants inherit the entire estate. Thus, for example, if there are no full brothers or sisters, but merely a half-brother of the deceased on his mother's side, the half-brother will take the whole estate to the exclusion of more remote relatives such as grandparents, uncles or aunts.\n\nIn this case, the descendants of the parents will inherit the entire estate in equal shares. The descendants inherit \"per stirpes\" by representation.\n\nWhere the deceased is not survived by a spouse, descendant, parent, or a descendant of a parent, the other blood relations of the deceased who are related to him nearest in degree inherit the estate in equal shares (per capita). The degree of relationship between the parties is,\n\n\nA parent or child of the deceased would thus be related to him in the first degree, a grandparent or grandchild in the second degree, an uncle or aunt in the third degree, and so on.\n\nIf there are no relations of the deceased, by blood or by adoption, and no surviving spouse, the fiscus or State is entitled, after the lapse of thirty years, to claim the estate as bona vacantia (unclaimed property) in terms of the common law. The authority for this is the case of \"Estate Baker v Estate Baker\". In these circumstances the State is not an “heir,” and the estate is not “inherited.” It merely accrues to the State.\n\nThe Law of Succession Amendment Act, which came into operation on October 1, 1992, amended the Intestate Succession Act as regards the rules for the disqualification of and the renunciation by an intestate heir of his inheritance. If a person is disqualified from being an intestate heir of the deceased, the benefit which the heir would have received had the heir not been disqualified, devolves as if the heir had died immediately before the death of the deceased, and as if the heir had not been disqualified from inheriting.\n\nWhere an heir who stands to inherit along with the surviving spouse (provided that that heir is not a minor or mentally ill) renounces his or her intestate benefit, such benefit vests in the surviving spouse. Where there is no surviving spouse, the benefit devolves as if the descendant had died immediately before the death of the deceased.\n\nSection 23 of the Black Administration Act stated that, when African persons died intestate, their estates devolved in terms of the rules of primogeniture. Women and children, therefore, were excluded from inheriting under this Act. The case of \"Bhe v The Magistrate, Khayelitsha\" changed this by striking down section 23 as unconstitutional.\n\nThere is a statute not yet in force (the Reform of Customary Law of Succession and Regulation of Related Matters Act) which states that the estates of persons subject to customary law who die intestate will devolve in terms of the Intestate Succession Act. This Act thus modifies the customary-law position.\n\nA testator living under a system of customary law may still use his or her freedom of testation to stipulate that the customary law of succession must be applicable to his or her estate. In such a case, it would be necessary to apply the customary law of succession to the deceased estate.\n\nIf the customary law of succession is applicable, it is important to distinguish between the order of succession in a monogamous and polygynous household.\n\nPersons married in terms of Muslim rites are not recognised in South African law as “spouses” proper. All references, therefore, to “spouses” in the Intestate Succession Act do not apply. The courts in \"Daniels v Campbell\" and \"Hassam v Jacobs\", however, have held that persons married in terms of Muslim rites may inherit as if they were spouses proper.\n\nPersons married in terms of Hindu rites are not recognised in South African law as “spouses” proper. All references to “spouses” in the Intestate Succession Act accordingly do not apply. The court in the case of \"Govender v Ragavayah\", however, held that persons married in terms of Hindu rites may inherit as if they are spouses proper.\n\nBefore the Civil Union Act, partners in a permanent same-sex life partnership were not allowed to marry, and so could not inherit from each other intestate. The case of \"Gory v Kolver\" changed this position, with its finding that such partners could inherit intestate.\n\nThere is a proposed amendment to section 1 of the Intestate Succession Act, which will include partners in a permanent same-sex life partnership in which the partners have undertaken reciprocal duties of support in the definition of “spouse.” The amendment of the Act, it has been argued, is ill-advised. The memorandum to the Amendment Bill cites Gory v Kolver as authority, but it has been suggested that the situation which prevailed at the time that this case was heard no longer exists, due to the advent of the Civil Union Act. The decision in Gory v Kolver case was predicated on the fact that the parties were not able to formalise their relationship in any way. On the evidence, the parties had undertaken mutual duties of support. Had it been possible for them to do so, they would almost certainly have formaised their relationship. Were the parties in that situation presently, they would have the option of formalising their relationship under the Civil Union Act. The survivor would be considered a \"spouse\" for the purposes of the Intestate Succession Act. The net effect of the proposed amendment, it has been argued, is that it elevates same-sex partnerships to a level superior to that of heterosexual life partnerships.\n\nIt has been suggested that the proposed Domestic Partnership Bill will address the concerns of parties to a same-sex or heterosexual relationship insofar as intestate succession is concerned. More importantly, both types of relationship (same-sex and heterosexual) will be on an equal footing under the proposed Domestic Partnership Bill. This arguably would not be the case if the proposed amendment to the Intestate Succession Act were signed into law.\n\nFurthermore, the memorandum to the amendment Bill states that the proposed amendment limits the application of the clause to cases where the court is satisfied that the partners in question were not able to formalise their relationship under the Civil Union Act. The question remains, however: What exactly would these circumstances be?\n\nIt is trite that the survivor of a heterosexual life partnership enjoys no benefits as a spouse under the Intestate Succession Act; nor may the survivor of a heterosexual life partnership claim maintenance from the deceased estate in terms of the Maintenance of Surviving Spouses Act.\n\nThe Draft Domestic Partnerships Bill seeks to address those persons who do not wish to marry but who still want to formalise their partnerships. Section 20 of the Bill states that the definition of \"spouse\" in section 1 of the Intestate Succession Act will include a registered domestic partner.\n\nSection 26 of the Bill also provides that an unregistered domestic partner may apply for an order for intestate succession, and that the court will take into account, \"inter alia\",\n\n\nThe Bill does not make the relationship between the parties a \"marriage\" or a \"civil union\" proper; it merely allows for the registration of the partnership.\n\nTestamentary succession takes place by virtue of either a will or a codicil:\n\n\nThe date of execution of a will is the date on which the will is signed. Before 1954, when the Wills Act came into force, all provinces had their own legislation regulating the law of testate succession; now the Wills Act has uniformed the law in this regard.\n\nWhen dealing with a will which may have been executed under suspicious circumstances, it is important to investigate whether the testator wanted to execute a will and whether he or she did so freely.\n\nOnce these requirements have been fulfilled, and once it has been established that the formalities have been complied with, the executor is appointed. He has to deal with the general winding-up of the estate.\n\nAdiation and repudiation form the basis of succession, as it is important to know whether a beneficiary adiates or repudiates a benefit before the executor can begin with the final liquidation and distribution of an estate.\n\nFreedom of testation is the power a testator has to deal with his property as he desires. A cardinal principle of South African law is that all persons have complete freedom of testation; no person is obliged to bequeath his estate to anyone. A clause in a will, or an agreement which seeks to limit a testator's freedom to dispose of his property on death, is unenforceable.\n\nFreedom of testation is not absolute, however. It is subject to limitations imposed by statute and the common law. While a testator is generally permitted to disinherit his spouse and his children, and is free to impose conditions on beneficiaries regarding how they should enjoy an inheritance, or when a benefit is to vest, there are instances when, as a matter of public policy, the law restrains testators in their exercise of this freedom. The Constitution also has a role to play here.\n\nNowadays, a testator living under customary law also has freedom of testation regarding customary-law property.\n\nWhile testators in South Africa enjoy a wide freedom of testation, this freedom is subject to certain limitations. These limitations can be divided into statutory and common law limitations and include conditions that interfere with a beneficiary's marital relationship and conditions limiting a beneficiary's freedom of movement. The common-law limitations are also entrenched in the Constitution. Certain indirect limitations, such as those imposed by the maintenance of children and the Maintenance of Surviving Spouses Act, may also be found.\n\nNo effect is given to illegal dispositions. If, for example, the testator leaves money to set up a brothel, no effect will be given to this disposition, since its purpose is an illegal one.\n\nEffect is also not given to those dispositions which are against public policy.\n\nIt was custom that, when Dutch people died, they gave their agricultural land to their sons in equal shares. This led, however, to the fragmentation of farms, which eventually became so small that they were no longer viable. In terms of section 3 of the Subdivision of Agricultural Land Act, therefore, the testator's capacity to subdivide his land has been limited.\n\nTo get around this legislation, a testator may leave the land to a trust or close corporation, and appoint the beneficiaries as beneficiaries of the trust or close corporation in equal shares.\n\nThe subdivision of mineral rights is based on the same principle as the subdivision of agricultural land. Therefore, in terms of section 20 of the Mineral Rights Act, a testator cannot bequest mineral rights in undivided shares to more than one person.\n\nA \"fideicommissa\" occurs\n\n\nWith regard to movable property, there may be an infinite number of fideicommissaries. There may be any number of fideicommissaries. Family heirlooms, for example, are sometimes passed on to the eldest daughter of the testator; when she dies, they are passed on to her oldest daughter; and so on, in perpetuity.\n\nWhere, however, there is fixed property that is the subject of a \"fideicommissa\", only two successive fideicommissaries are permitted. If, for example, certain land is left to the eldest son of the testator and, when he dies, on to his eldest son, and upon his death to \"his\" eldest son, this is the furtherest the property can go in terms of the \"fideicommissa\". The second \"fideicommissa\" may bequeath the land to whomever he wishes.\n\nThere is no general duty on the testator to leave anything to his surviving spouse. The Maintenance of Surviving Spouses Act was passed to provide a remedy for surviving spouses. In terms of section 2 of this Act, the surviving spouse has a claim against the deceased estate for reasonable maintenance until her death or remarriage, provided that she is unable to support herself.\n\nSection 3 of the Act states the factors to be considered in determining the amount of maintenance awarded, in addition to any other factor:\n\n\nIn terms of the common law, every minor child of a deceased parent has a claim for maintenance and education against the deceased estate. This duty does not cease when the child attains majority; it runs until the child is self-supporting. It is also irrelevant that the child is legitimate or illegitimate.\n\nIf there are insufficient funds in the deceased estate to cover the total maintenance and education of minor children, the children will receive a \"pro rata\" amount.\n\nThe child's right to claim for maintenance and education has preference over all heirs and legatees, and therefore must be determined first.\n\nThe duty to support is passed on from the parent to his estate when he dies, and so it cannot be bequeathed.\n\nWith regard to the maintenance of parents, there is no law providing for this yet. If, however, the parent of a deceased child can show the need for it, it is possible that such a claim may be successful.\n\nIn terms of the Pension Funds Act, pension funds do not accrue to the deceased estate. It is the board of trustees of the particular pension fund which decides to whom to allocate the money. (This is usually the spouse or the children depending on the circumstances.) The testator therefore cannot bequeath his pension funds to an heir or legatee.\n\nThe testator may also delegate his or her freedom of testation to a certain extent by conferring the power of appointment upon other persons.\n\nA person living under a system of customary law is free to make a will regarding customary property. The principles regarding power of appointment should, however, be kept in mind in such instances.\n\nIn order to make a will, the testator must have testamentary capacity. If he does not have such capacity at the time the will is executed—that is to say, at the time it is signed—the will is void \"ab initio\", and thus is deemed to never have been valid.\n\nThe Wills Act deals with the formal capacity to make a will. Section 4 of the Wills Act states that a person has formal capacity to make a will if he is\n\n\nTestamentary capacity, then, refers to the minimum age and the mental capacity required to make a valid will. The burden of proof in this regard rests on the party alleging formal incapacity. Evidence concerning a testator's mental capabilities is taken into account when determining the validity of a will.\n\nThe Master of the High Court will accept without evidence that the will that he receives from the executor was executed with the necessary testamentary capacity. The issue of a testator's testamentary capacity will only arise if someone approaches a court with an application regarding the capacity of the testator to make a will. The Master determines only whether the formal requirements of the will have been met; he does not concern himself with the other formalities regarding capacity.\n\nIt is important to distinguish testamentary capacity from the testator's free expression of his will (volition) as well as from freedom of testation.\n\nIf the alleged testator is under sixteen years, he is absolutely prohibited from making a will, even with the assistance of a parent or guardian. Such a will is void \"ab initio\" and thus cannot be ratified at a later date. If the testator is at least sixteen years, this is one of the few legal undertakings a minor can assume.\n\nMinors who are entitled to make wills may do so without the authority or assistance of their parents or guardians. The common-law restriction placed on deaf-mutes and interdicted prodigals from making wills is not part of modern South African law.\n\nUnder a system of customary law, people have freedom of testation just like anyone else and also need to comply with the requirements of testamentary capacity.\n\nAs stated in section 4 of the Wills Act, the testator must have the requisite mental ability. There is a rebuttable presumption that the testator is competent. Incompetence would result from the will's being executed by a person who suffers from a mental illness or is under the influence of alcohol or drugs (both legal and illegal) at the time of execution, if that person is incapable of understanding the nature and effect of what he is doing. This obviously depends on the circumstances of each case.\n\nIf there is undue influence exerted on the testator (physical, mental or otherwise), the testator will lack the requisite capacity. The will will be declared invalid.\n\nEvery person of the age of fourteen years or more who is not incompetent to give evidence in a court of law is competent to witness a will.\n\nA will is a unilateral expression of the wishes of a testator in a legally prescribed manner which determines what must happen to his or her property after his or her death. The Wills Act defines a will to “include a codicil and any other testamentary writing.” The only way in which a testator can make a valid will is by strictly complying with the detailed requirements of section 2(1) of the Wills Act.\n\nThe will must be in writing, so a video will shall not suffice, as it provides no signature, and the potential for fraud is too great. An electronic will—that is, a will stored on a computer hard drive or other data-storage device—may be condoned, although invalid, in terms of section 2(3) of the Wills Act.\n\nFurthermore, it is not necessary for the date or place of execution to be recorded, but for practical reasons it is recommended: for example, if a series of wills are executed revoking previous ones.\n\nSimilar execution requirements apply when the testator amends an existing will by making changes on the will itself. A codicil that amends an existing will must also be made in accordance with the requirements of section 2(1) of the Wills Act.\n\nThe four requirements for a testamentary disposition are\n\n\nAccordingly, there are five methods by which the testator may execute a valid will:\n\n\nIn terms of section 2(1)(a)(i), a will is not valid unless it is signed by the testator or someone else (a proxy) on the testator's behalf. Where a will is signed by a proxy, the latter must do so in the testator's presence and by the testator's direction. For all persons involved in the execution process, a “signature” includes the making of an initial; in the case of the testator, it also includes the making of a mark, such as a cross or a thumbprint, but in that event the will must be certified as set out below.\n\nThe will must be signed by the testator or the proxy, or be acknowledged by the testator, and (if applicable) the proxy, in the presence of two or more competent witnesses present at the same time.\n\nThe witnesses must attest and sign the will in the presence of the testator and of each other, and, if the will is signed by a proxy, in the presence also of the latter. A witness, unlike a testator, may not sign by making a mark.\n\nIf there is more than one page to the will (other than the page on which it ends), the testator or proxy must sign or make a mark on each and every page of the will.\n\nIt is unclear from the Act whether witnesses are required to sign on every page or just at the end of the will, as it just says that they must sign the will. It is generally accepted that witnesses are not required to sign every page; they are simply required to sign any page anywhere on the page.\n\nWhen a testator signs his will with a mark, or by proxy, a certificate from a commissioner of oaths is required, in which the commissioner certifies that he or she is satisfied as to the identity of the testator, and that the document is the will of the testator. In terms of the Wills Act, the commissioner must sign anywhere on every page of the will. The certificate must be completed as soon as possible after the will is signed by the testator or the proxy. Should the testator die before the certificate is made or completed, the commissioner must as soon as possible thereafter complete the certificate and sign the will as indicated above. The importance of this requirement was seen in the case of \"Tshabalala v Tshabalala\".\n\nThe commissioner of oaths may not act in a dual capacity as witness, for witnesses are required to attest and sign the will in the presence of the commissioner. In these circumstances, therefore, four persons are required to sign in order to validly execute the will: the two witnesses, the testator placing a mark (or person signing on behalf of the testator) and the commissioner. However, there appears to be no reason why an instructing attorney who drafts a will cannot also commission it.\n\nTwo witnesses are required for the valid execution of a will. The witnesses must be at least fourteen years of age—recall that a testator must be at least sixteen to execute his own will—and must be competent to give evidence in a court of law. In terms of section 4A of the Wills Act, a witness to a will and the witness’ spouse cannot take any benefit under the will. The witnesses are required only to sign the last page.\n\nThe courts are vested with the power to condone a will that does not comply strictly with the formalities discussed above. In this regard, section 2(3) of the Wills Act states that\n\nif a court is satisfied that a document or the amendment of a document drafted or executed by a person who has died since the drafting or execution thereof, was intended to be his will or an amendment of his will, the court shall order the Master to accept that document, or that document as amended, for the purposes of the Administration of Estates Act, as a will, although it does not comply with all the formalities for the execution or amendment of wills referred to in subsection (1).\n\nIn other words, a court may order that a document which has not been executed in strict compliance with the will-making formalities is nevertheless to be treated as if it were a valid will. The court has the power to make an order of validity to avoid frustrating the will of the testator. This does not mean that there is a general discretion vested in the courts to condone non-compliance with formalities. To obtain such an order, it is essential to prove\n\n\nIf the court is of this opinion, it may order the Master to accept the document as the testator's will, even though it does not comply with “all” the required formalities, but the court must be absolutely sure. This power is utilised sparingly.\n\nAlthough, therefore, an electronic will, stored on a computer hard drive, for example, which has not been printed or executed, is invalid due to the fact that as it is not in writing nor validly executed, it can be saved by section 2(3). In Van der Merwe v Master of the High Court, an appeal was brought to have an unsigned document accepted as the will of the deceased. The court noted that the lack of a signature had never, in terms of section 2(3), been held to be a complete bar to a document being declared a will. The court considered whether the document was drafted by the deceased, and whether the deceased intended it to be his will. The appellant provided proof that the document had been sent to him by the deceased, giving the document an authentic quality. It was not contested that the document still existed and had not been amended or deleted. From the title of the document, the court held it to be clear that the deceased intended the document to be his will. The court upheld the appeal, declaring the will to be valid.\n\nDespite the existence of section 2(3), it remains vital for wills to be properly executed in accordance with the requirements of section 2(1), because the lengthy delays and financial expense involved in obtaining a court order that a defective document be treated as a will can be disastrous for the testator's family. In addition, it may not always be possible to satisfy the requirements for such an order, even when the testator's intentions can be clearly established.\n\nThere are five ways in which a will can be rendered invalid:\n\n\nImproper execution of any one page of a will generally invalidates not only that page but the entire will. However, if the rest of the will is properly executed and contains all the essential matter—that is, the whole of the dispositions of the testator's property—there is authority to suggest that the defective page may be expunged and the properly executed pages treated as the complete and valid will of the testator.\n\nAll questions as to the validity of a will must, notwithstanding that the will has been registered by the Master, be determined by the court. If a will is regular on the face of it—that is, if it is apparently in proper form and in compliance with the requirements of the law, and if there is no external sign or mark of any flaw in it—it is presumed to be valid; hence, if it is sought to establish the invalidity of the will, the onus of proving the cause or reason of the invalidity is upon the person endeavouring to set aside the will. This rule as to the onus of proof is applied whether the will is attacked on the ground of non-compliance with the formalities required by law, or of forgery, or of undue influence, or of incapacity of the testator, such as his insanity.\n\nWhere an action is brought to have a will declared invalid, the executor and all the beneficiaries under the will must be joined as defendants in the action. Where the facts are not in dispute, and where there is no danger of collusion, an order may be granted by way of application and on affidavit.\n\nWhen a testator executes a document in accordance with the formalities for a will, the document remains in existence as the testator's will until such time as the testator\n\n\nEven a document which does not comply with the execution formalities, but which was intended by the testator to be his will, must be revoked by the testator in one of the recognised ways to avoid the possibility that a court may make an order in terms of section 2(3) directing that the document be accepted as the testator's will.\n\nIf the testator intends to revoke his or her will but does not carry out one of the recognised acts of revocation, a court can make an order in terms of section 2A revoking the will for the testator if there is proof of the testator's revocatory intention, provided that the requirements of section 2A are satisfied.\n\nThe requirements for a court to intervene in terms of section 2A are different from those which apply in terms of section 2(3). The issue of whether or not section 2A can be applied in circumstances where the testator revokes a portion of his or her will and simultaneously introduces new testamentary provisions in place of the revoked provisions is problematic.\n\nA testator may revoke his will at any time, even if he or she has expressly agreed not to do so. There are two exceptions to this rule.\n\n\nAt common law, the modes of revocation were not altogether clear. Generally, it was agreed that a testator could revoke his will\n\n\nHowever, section 2A of the Wills Act allows the court to condone an act of revocation if the court is satisfied that the testator intended to revoke his will or part of it, even though the will was not revoked in one of the ways recognised by the common law. It would seem, however, that a will cannot be revoked by virtue of an oral statement made by the testator even if made before a number of witnesses.\n\nA will can be revoked by a subsequent valid will or by a codicil. A codicil is a supplement to a will: a testamentary instrument intended to alter an already executed will. Later wills are obviously the later wills in a series of wills executed by the same person. A valid will loses all legal force and effect—that is, its validity—if it is revoked by the testator before his death. In revoking a previous will, the testator must intend to revoke the previous will; if accidentally done, the revocation is not effective.\n\nA will can also be revoked by an antenuptial contract; likewise, provisions in an antenuptial contract may be revoked by a subsequent will, provided, of course, that the surviving spouse adiates thereunder.\n\nA revocation may be express, by virtue of a clause known as a revocatory clause, or implied from the fact of provisions in the later will being inconsistent with those in the former. When certain dispositions in the two wills are inconsistent with each other, those in the earlier will are revoked. It follows that, if the two wills are entirely inconsistent, the earlier will is completely revoked. Where, however, it is possible to reconcile the provisions in both wills, such reconciliation should be made. A revocation is effected the moment the revoking will is duly executed.\n\nThe physical or symbolic destruction of a will constitutes revocation and renders it invalid. A will may be completely revoked by the testator's destruction of it: for example, by burning it, or by cutting it into pieces, or by defacing it, or by cancelling it, or by erasing his signature—provided that the act is in each case done with the intention of revoking the will. Deletion of an entire will is an act of destruction that constitutes revocation, and is thus governed by the common law, but a deletion of a portion of a will, by and large, amounts to an amendment and consequently has to comply with certain prescribed formalities.\n\nThe destruction of a copy of a will does not normally constitute an effective revocation, but the destruction of a duplicate original revokes both it and the other duplicate original (filed usually with a third party). The partial revocation of a will by means of a deletion or alteration is regulated by the Wills Act.\n\nIf, on the death of a person, his original will, or a duplicate original will, cannot be found, but it is proved to have been in his possession, a presumption arises that it was destroyed by the testator with the intention of revoking it. This presumption may, of course, be rebutted: for example,\n\n\nbut not by the fact that a duplicate original of the will is found in the possession of a firm of attorneys.\n\nAdemption arises where the testator leaves a legacy in a will, and thereafter, in his lifetime, voluntarily alienates the subject matter of the legacy, as when Rodney bequeaths a farm to Shaun, and then sells or donates it. If this happens, the legacy is regarded as having been tacitly revoked, or “adeemed,” as it has lapsed by ademption.\n\nIf, however, the alienation is not voluntary—if, that is, the testator parts with the thing or its possession out of necessity—ademption does not take place. Such would be the case where Rodney is forced to sell the farm to settle a judgment debt.\n\nSection 2A of the Wills Act contemplates the revocation of a will by means other than those recognised at common law. The section permits a court to declare a will revoked where the testator has, intending thereby to revoke the will or part thereof,\n\n\nThe relationship between section 2A and section 2(3) of the Wills Act is not altogether clear. It seems inescapable, however, that section 2A must be interpreted against the backdrop of s 2(3).\n\nSection 2B of the Wills Act states that, if there is an existing will between spouses whose marriage is later dissolved by divorce or annulment, and if either spouse dies within three months of the date of the divorce, no benefit under the will is accorded to the ex-spouse. In other words, if a testator dies within three months after his or her marriage was dissolved, and the will was executed before the dissolution, the estate will be distributed in accordance with the provisions of the will, but as if the previous spouse had died before the dissolution of the marriage—unless it appears from the will that the testator had intended to benefit the spouse despite the dissolution of their marriage.\n\nThe rationale for this rule is to give spouses who divorce a three-month period to change their wills.\n\nIn ante-nuptial contracts, duly registered in the Deeds Registry, it is possible to include provisions for the devolution of the spouses’ estates. Parties to such a contract may not unilaterally make a will that conflicts with the ante-nuptial contract. If there has been a massing (where a joint will is drawn up between two or more people who mass their estates into one common pool) and the survivor adiates (i.e. accepts the terms of the will), the survivor will receive an interest in the estate, e.g. a usufruct or fideicommissium. When the survivor dies, the property will then devolve. Note that the surviving spouse cannot unilaterally devolve his or her estate in terms of another will.\n\nAlthough the matter is not free from doubt, the better view is that a will which has been revoked by the testator, but which is actually still in existence, may be revived by the testator by means of a subsequent reviving document, without the necessity of re-executing the original will. In light of the condonation provisions contained in section 2(3) of the Wills Act, it seems that it is no longer necessary for the will or the reviving document to be properly executed; a court may condone these documents if the requirements of the section are met.\n\nWhere, however, the will has been revoked by destruction, it cannot be revived. The revocation of a will which itself revoked an earlier will does not have the effect of reviving the earlier will; to achieve that end, re-execution is necessary.\n\nIt is possible to alter or vary a valid will at any time after the will is executed. It is preferable merely to execute an entirely new will, but such an amendment is possible.\n\nA testator may amend a will at any time prior to death. Any limitation of the power to amend is generally unenforceable. In the case of a will executed on or after January 1, 1954, which the testator amended on or after October 1, 1992, the amendment (including a deletion, addition, alteration or interlineation), made after the will is executed, is valid only if\n\n\nSection 2(1)(b) of the Wills Act states that all the requirements for the execution of a valid will are required also for the execution of a valid amendment. There is a rebuttable presumption in section 2(2) of the Wills Act that any amendment to a will took place after the execution of the will.\n\nIn all instances where an amendment is identified in the presence of a commissioner, the certificate must be made as soon as possible after the amendment has been identified. If the testator dies after the amendment is identified, but before the commissioner has made the certificate, the commissioner must as soon as possible thereafter make the certificate.\n\nIt is important to note the distinction between rectification and alteration:\n\n\nThe need for rectification arises when the will does not correctly represent the testator's intention, due to some mistake of the testator or of the person who drafted the will.\n\nThe court will rectify a will in the following circumstances:\n\n\nThe court must be satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the will does not express the true intention of the testator, and that there is reliable evidence to show what his intention was.\n\nWhere the wording of the will clearly and unambiguously reflects the intention of the testator, however, the position is otherwise, for the court will not as a general rule vary the terms of a will which can be carried out and are not illegal or contrary to public policy, unless authorized by statute to do so. The general rule is that the courts are very reluctant to alter a will. Nevertheless, the court does have a discretion, albeit a very limited one, to order a variation in truly exceptional cases, such as where there has been an unforeseen change of circumstances since the death of the testator, rendering the fulfilment of his directions practically impossible or utterly unreasonable, or which “threatens to make a shipwreck of the testator’s intention.”\n\nOn change in circumstances, and where the execution of the will is impossible or unreasonable, see \"Ex Parte Sidelsky\".\n\nIncorrect assumptions by the testator in this context refer to those regarding his assets and liabilities.\n\nWhere strict execution would result in the failure of the bequest or the frustration of the testator's intention, see \"Ex Parte McDonald\".\n\nWhere the will is to be altered or varied out of necessity, see \"Ex Parte Douallier\".\n\nWhere the will is to be altered or varied because the manner of execution is not possible or would result in serious loss, see \"Ex Parte Dittmarn\".\n\nSince all the pages of a will must be executed in compliance with the necessary formalities, a testator may not incorporate into a will, by reference, terms of a separate document, whether or not that document has been formally executed. The question of incorporation arises only when the document referred to contains matters that form an integral part of the will. To be complete and effective, a testamentary disposition must identify\n\n\nWhere one of these essential matters is left to a separate, unattested document, the disposition fails.\n\nWhere, however, the document in question contains merely incidental matters, it is not an essential part of the disposition or the will; the question of incorporation does not arise at all. Such a document may nonetheless be referred to as part of the “surrounding circumstances” in order to construe or apply the terms of the will. The effect of section 2(3) of the Wills Act, dealing with condonation (discussed above), on the incorporation-by-reference rule is open to discussion.\n\nPrior to 1954, wills were regulated by a number of provincial statutes in addition to the common law. The law prior to 1954 is still relevant to wills executed before that date.\n\nA remnant of the common law, in the form of the soldier's will, survived until 1992, when it was rendered obsolete by the Law of Succession Amendment Act.\n\nA will may be executed in one document by two persons, in which case it is termed a joint or mutual will. The two persons are usually spouses married in community of property, but they may be spouses married out of community, or may not be married to each other, as in the case of two sisters.\n\nNo additional formalities or witnesses are required for the execution of a mutual will. Where, however, the will confers reciprocal benefits on the testators, it is advisable that the will be not written by either of them: If the writer is the survivor, the rule applies that a person can take no benefit under a will written by himself. For the survivor to benefit under the will in such a case, either a court must condone the will, or there must be proof of confirmation of the disposition by the first-dying, either by his writing on the will or by other satisfactory evidence.\n\nNotwithstanding its form, a joint will is simply two separate wills embodied for convenience in one document. Usually the dispositions by each testator relate to his or her own property, or where the testators are married in community of property, to his or her half share of the joint property: for example, where each of the testators appoints the other as heir, or as heir together with the children of the marriage.\n\nSometimes, again, a joint will is in fact the will of the first-dying only: for example, where the will appoints the survivor of the testators as sole heir of the first-dying, or as heir together with the children. In these cases, the portion of the will relating to the dispositions by the first-dying is not binding on the survivor, and the latter may revoke his or her portion of the will. But if, in addition, there is a disposition of the joint estate of the testators, or of a portion of it, giving the survivor a limited interest in the property, and disposing of such property after his or her death to other persons, the will is said to effect a “massing” of the estate, and is binding on the survivor if he or she accepts any benefits under the disposition.\n\nEvery person who is in possession of a will of a deceased must send the will to the Master, who registers it in a register of estates. This registration is termed “granting probate of the will.”\n\nWhere a will has been lost or destroyed, but a copy or draft is in existence, the court, if satisfied that the testator did not intend to revoke the will, may authorise the Master to grant probate of it.\n\nIf no copy of the will is available, its contents may be proved by oral evidence, provided that such evidence is very clear and specific. Where, therefore, it was proved that a husband and wife had signed a joint will which was left with their attorney for safe keeping, and that, after the death of the husband, the will could not be found (the probabilities being that the will had been lost or destroyed in the attorney's office and not removed by either of the testators), the court held that the will was valid; it adopted a reconstructed will.\n\nA South African testator has almost unlimited freedom of testation and may stipulate in his or her will whatever he or she wishes. As a result, the contents of wills may vary greatly.\n\nThe main provisions in wills are those which dispose of the property of the testator to a person or persons. Subsidiary provisions regulate the distribution of the estate by appointing executors to liquidate and to distribute the property in the estate, and where necessary by appointing administrators to manage the property, and guardians or tutors to minors and their property.\n\nIn the simplest possible form of will, the testator simply bequeaths all property to a named person. On the death of the testator, that person, if alive when the testator dies, becomes the heir, and has a vested claim to the ownership of all the testator's property, subject to payment of the debts. In this case, there is no difficulty as to the identity of the beneficiary, or the identity of the property disposed of, or the nature of the interest granted in such property.\n\nWills, however, are not always so simply worded; they may, and usually do, contain provisions of a more complex nature. There may, for example, be more than one beneficiary. Instead of being named, beneficiaries may be identified by some description, such as “my children” or “my surviving children.” Instead being described as an aggregate (“my estate”), particular items of property may be specified, such as a farm or a motor car. Finally, the interest disposed of in the property may be\n\n\nThe effect of these testamentary devices is that the same thing may be given to more than one person, either concurrently or alternatively or successively. In order to appreciate the effect of these “comprehensive and elastic provisions of our law,” it is necessary to know the difference between inheritance and legacy, between ownership and usufruct, and between vested, future and conditional interests.\n\nThere is a particularly important distinction to be made between legacies and inheritances. This distinction plays an important role in the final distribution of an estate. The estate of a deceased person is distributed by the executor by first paying the debts, then handing over the legacies and prelegacies, and finally giving the balance to the heir or heirs.\n\nA legacy is a disposition in a will, to a person termed the “legatee,” of things which are described either specifically or generally. A specific legacy is one of\n\n\nA general legacy is a disposition of a class of things described as a rule by number or quantity, such as a thousand sheep, or R1,000. It would seem to follow that a legacy of all the money to the credit of the testator in a particular bank is a specific legacy.\n\nWhen a legacy fails because the legatee does not want to or cannot inherit his or her benefit (for example, he or she repudiated the legacy or he or she dies before the testator), there are three possibilities:\n\n\nShould a legacy fail, and the testator has not appointed a substitute, or accrual is not possible, the legacy will form part of the residue of the estate, or will form part of the intestate estate to be inherited by the intestate beneficiaries.\n\nA prelegacy is a legacy which is left to an heir in priority to the other heirs, and in addition to any other share of the inheritance which the heir may be entitled to receive.\n\nAn inheritance is a disposition in a will, to a person termed the heir, of the residue of the estate, after the debts, legacies and prelegacies have been satisfied. It follows that the heir is in effect a residuary legatee. There may be more than one heir, in which case the shares left to them may be specified to be equal or unequal.\n\nThe institution of an heir or heirs is not today essential for the validity of a will. If the will, however, appoints only legatees, and if there is a balance left over after the debts and legacies have been paid or satisfied, there is an intestacy as to such balance. It follows that a person can die partly testate and partly intestate, although there is a presumption in favour of testacy.\n\nAn heir may be appointed as from a certain date or event, or until a certain date or event.\n\nThe chief difference between the laws relating to inheritance and to legacy arises from the fact that,\n\n\nIt follows that, if the testator bequeaths specified property which does not in fact belong solely to him, problems arise which are not met with in inheritance.\n\nThe Roman-Dutch notions of legitimate portion and \"lex hac edictali\" in testamentary succession were abolished at the turn of the 20th century under the influence of English law. Similarly, South Africa did not adopt the family provision and dependants’ relief of English law under the Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependents) Act 1975.\n\nAn interest or benefit under a will may, on the death of the testator, either vest in the beneficiary immediately, or be contingent upon the fulfilment of some condition. If vested, it may be enjoyable presently, or in the future only.\n\nA vested interest refers to an inheritance right which has become unconditionally fixed and established in the beneficiary, with the result that it forms an asset in the beneficiary's estate; it may be disposed of by him or her \"inter vivos\" or \"mortis causa\"; and it is normally transmissible to the beneficiary's heirs on his death (unless the right is purely personal to the beneficiary, such as a usufruct).\n\nThe terms \"dies cedit\" and \"dies venit\" are very important when dealing with vesting of rights.\n\n\nIf the right has vested, but its enjoyment is postponed to the future, there is \"dies cedit\" but not \"dies venit\". The time for enjoyment can, of course, arrive only after or simultaneously with vesting. When it does arrive, there is both \"dies cedit\" and \"dies venit\". If there has been no vesting it follows that \"dies nec cedit nec venit\".\n\nThe question of whether, on the death of the testator, an interest under a will is conditional or vested, or vested but not immediately enjoyable, depends entirely on the intention of the testator. This intention is gathered from the language of the will. A testator may postpone \"dies cedit\" or \"dies venit\", or both, by means of conditions or time clauses (terms), and may make a specific benefit dependent on a condition, or may link it to a term or period of time.\n\nSuppose that the testator leaves an interest subject to a condition. A condition is a provision that, on the occurrence or non-occurrence of some uncertain future event, a right shall either be conferred or be discharged. There must be uncertainty as to the event, either because it may never happen, or because, although it must happen, it may not happen before some other specified event, such as the death of a particular person, takes place. For example, the testator may leave a sum of money to Helen “if she attains the age of 21,” or “if Helen becomes Mayor of Cape Town.”\n\nThe most common form of condition found in wills is “if A survives B” (B being some specified or determinable person). The effect of an interest being left conditionally is that it vests, \"dies cedit\", only when the condition has been fulfilled. Prior to the fulfilment of the condition, there has been no \"dies cedit\" (or \"dies venit\"), and the beneficiary acquires merely a contingent right to the benefit. Suppose, then, that the testator leaves “R1,000 to my son if and when he attains the age of 21.” Upon the death of the testator, and if the son is alive but under twenty-one, he acquires no vested interest. Consequently, if he dies before reaching that age, nothing is transmissible to his heirs. If, however, he attains the age of 21 \"dies cedit\", and the legacy thereupon vests in him. The same principles are applicable where an interest is left “to Armand and upon his death after the testator to Lara.” Lara acquires a vested interest only if she survives both the testator and Armand.\n\nThe conditions mentioned above are suspensive. A resolutive condition also may be attached to an interest: for example, where a usufruct is left to a widow “provided our children continue to reside with her.” In such a case, the usufruct vests in the widow on the testator's death, but not absolutely for her lifetime; on the fulfilment of the resolutive condition, a divesting takes place.\n\nThere is a distinction, then, between suspensive and resolutive conditions, with regard to their influence on \"dies cedit\" and \"dies venit\". There is also a distinction between suspensive and resolutive time clauses with regard to their influence on \"dies cedit\" and \"dies venit\".\n\n\nThe nature of an interest which is vested but not enjoyable, as opposed to one which is both vested and enjoyable, is well illustrated by the case of a legacy by the testator of “a sum of money to my daughter, payable on her attaining the age of 25 years.” In such a case, the legacy is generally not conditional upon the daughter's attaining the age of 25, but the enjoyment of it merely is postponed. It follows that, on the death of the testator if the daughter is alive, \"dies cedit\" occurs, and the legacy vests in her, but \"dies venit\" only occurs when she reaches the age of twenty-five. If the daughter dies before reaching twenty-five, her right to the legacy passes to her heirs.\n\nAn example of a similar disposition is where the testator leaves “my estate to my children, the division not to take place until the death of their mother.” No condition is imposed as to the children acquiring their shares, but their enjoyment merely is postponed. The death of the mother is an event which is certain to occur. It fixes the time for the division and enjoyment by the children of their shares. Upon the death of the testator, \"dies cedit\" as far as the interests of the children are concerned, but \"dies venit\" only when the death of the mother occurs. If one of the children dies before the mother, his share vests in such child's own estate.\n\nA similar disposition is the following one in a mutual will: “The estate is bequeathed to our children, but the survivor of us is to have the possession, the children to have no right to their portions until the death of the survivor.”\n\nUnder the common law, it is common to say that, if anyone attacks the validity of a will, he will lose all bequests in terms of the will. Thus conditions excluding the jurisdiction of the court were considered valid. The case of \"Barclays Bank v Anderson\" changed this.\n\nConditions which are impossible to carry out are invalid.\n\nConditions regarding the insolvency of the beneficiary are valid. It is common to provide that, if the beneficiary becomes insolvent, the bequest lapses; accordingly, the bequest will not form part of the insolvent estate.\n\nIf a testator places a prohibition on a bequest but fails to say what should happen with the bequest if the prohibition is contravened, it is said that the prohibition is nude (\"nudum praeceptum\"). In other words, the prohibition is of no effect, and the beneficiary will receive the bequest free from any prohibitions.\n\nEstate massing takes place when two or more testators combine or mass the whole or parts of their estates into one consolidated unit and then dispose of it in terms of their mutual will:\n\nIn the case of common-law estate massing, a real right is transferred to the survivor. In the case of statutory estate massing, a limited right is transferred to the survivor.\n\nSince estate massing places a burden on the survivor, the doctrine of election comes into play. The survivor has to adiate or repudiate the massing before there can be any legal consequences.\n\nThe same principles are applicable to testators living under a system of customary law.\n\nWe have dealt thus far with the differences between conditional, vested and future interests, since these distinctions must be known before we can appreciate the effect of the various types of dispositions in wills which dispose of interests of a more complicated nature than a simple and unconditional institution of heirs or of legatees.\n\nA testator frequently does not dispose of the full ownership of his assets to any one or more persons, particularly in the case of landed property; he grants interests in the property less than full ownership, such as\n\n\nThese various interests will be treated first; thereafter combinations of the various interests.\n\nA usufruct, which is often confused with the fideicommissum, essentially forms part of the law of property, although it is often used in wills. A testator bequeaths the property rights to one person (the \"dominus\" or remainderman), but the right to use, enjoy and take the fruits of the property to another (the usufructuary). In other words, instead of leaving the full ownership of the estate, or of a specified thing, to one person, the testator may leave the ownership to one person, subject to a usufruct in favour of another person. For example, the testator leaves “my farm to A subject to a life usufruct in favour of B.” On the testator's death, both of these interests vest, the usufruct in B, and the remaining rights of ownership in A.\n\nThere are consequently two concurrent vested interests belonging to different persons in the same thing, the one enjoyable presently and the other in the future only. B's interest, the right to use the farm and to take its fruits, endures until B's death, whereupon it is extinguished; consequently B's heirs or successors acquire no rights in the farm. On B's death, A (if alive) becomes absolute owner of the farm. If A dies before B, that fact makes no difference to B's rights, for B's usufruct continues until his own death. A's ownership, subject to B's usufruct, passes to A's heirs or successors, who are bound by the usufruct until B dies.\n\nThe testator may substitute one beneficiary for another, giving an interest to Arthur which in certain circumstances is to go to Boucher instead. There are two kinds of substitutions:\n\n\nThese are distinguished by the fact that\n\n\nSubstitution, in other words, occurs when a testator appoints a beneficiary to inherit a benefit, but at the same time nominates another beneficiary to take the place of the appointed beneficiary (legatee or heir) upon the occurrence of an event, usually the death of the appointed beneficiary.\n\nDirect substitution can be created by the testator himself, or can operate by law (ex lege) in terms of section 2C of the Wills Act. In the case of direct substitution, an interest in property is left to one person (whether as heir or as legatee), subject to the condition that, if for some reason or other the interest does not vest in him, it is to go to another person. The reason usually specified is the death of the first-mentioned person, if it takes place prior to the death of the testator. It may also be some other reason, such as the first person's repudiation of the interest, or that person's being unable to succeed to the benefit.\n\nSuppose, for example, that the testator leaves “my farm to Tim, but if Tim has predeceased me, it is to go to Cameron.” On the testator's death, if Tim is alive, the farm vests absolutely in Tim, and Cameron's interest is entirely extinguished. If, on the other hand, Tim dies before the testator, Tim's interest is extinguished. Consequently, Tim's heirs or successors acquire no rights; if, in that case, if Cameron is still alive when the testator dies, the farm vests absolutely in Cameron. It is important to note that the interest goes to one or other of the beneficiaries mentioned, not to both of them; it is, as noted above, a case of conferral in the alternative.\n\nA direct substitution will not be implied unless it is clear, as a matter of “necessary implication,” that the testator so intended in respect of an event actually contemplated by the testator. But a form of implied direct substitution has been created by statute: Whenever a predeceased descendant of the testator would have become entitled, if he had survived the testator, to any benefit under the will of the testator, the descendants of that descendant are entitled to take that benefit per stirpes, unless the terms of the will indicate a contrary intention.\n\nA substitution is fideicommissary when an interest is given to one person (whether as an heir or as a legatee), subject to the passing of the interest to another person on the fulfilment of a condition. The person to whom the interest is first given is termed the “fiduciary;” the person who is substituted for him on the fulfilment of the condition, the “fideicommissary;” and the whole disposition, a “fideicommissum.” A fideicommissum may be defined, then, as the grant of an interest in property to one person, subject to the interest's passing to another person on the happening of a condition.\n\nA simple form of fideicommissum is constituted where the testator leaves “my farm (or estate) to Stuart, and on Stuart’s death, after me, it is to go to Luke.” The legal effect of this disposition is that, on the testator's death, if Stuart is then alive, the dominium of the farm vests in Stuart, subject to Luke's interest, which is as follows: Luke acquires no vested interest in the farm, only a contingent right, for Luke's interest vests only if and when the condition is fulfilled—in this case, if Luke is alive when Stuart dies, in which event the fideicommissum terminates and the absolute ownership vests in Luke.\n\nIf Luke dies before Stuart, the condition of the fideicommissum fails, Luke's rights are extinguished, and there is nothing to transmit to Luke's estate or successors (unless there is a clear indication in the will to the contrary). Stuart's fiduciary interest is then increased into full dominium.\n\nIf Stuart dies before the testator, then, under the old law, the fideicommissum failed, and Luke obtained no rights whatever on the death of the testator. This rule, however, has been abrogated, with the result that now, on the testator's death, Luke (assuming that he is alive) acquires the full dominium, for he succeeds directly to the testator, the fiduciary interest having fallen away.\n\nIt will be seen that a fideicommissum confers successive interests in the same property on two persons. The first interest vests (as a rule) on the death of the testator; the second (being conditional) vests only if and when the condition is fulfilled.\n\nFideicommissary substitution can be created expressly or impliedly. With regard to an implied fideicommissum, the so-called \"si sine liberis\" (meaning \"if you die without children\") clause is important; so, too, the legal position of the parties to a fideicommissum.\n\nThe nature of a fideicommissum is burdensome, since it limits the ownership of the fiduciary. It is not favoured in South African common law. A presumption against \"fideicommissa\" exists, but only where there is doubt as to whether a testator intended direct or fideicommissary substitution.\n\nThese two interests are similar in some respects, but they differ in others. They are very much alike, in that both a usufructuary and a fiduciary have the use and the enjoyment of the property for their lifetime; they differ in that, whereas a usufructuary can never automatically acquire any greater right in the property, a fiduciary's right may in his or her lifetime ripen into absolute ownership (if, for example, the fideicommissary dies before him).\n\nThe rights of the other person concerned in each case in these dispositions, the residuary owner and the fideicommissary respectively, naturally differ very considerably. In the case of a usufruct, the owner of the property has a vested right, although the owner's enjoyment is postponed, whereas the right of a fideicommissary is not vested, but rather contingent upon fulfilment of the fideicommissary condition.\n\nIt is frequently difficult to ascertain from a will which of these interests a testator intended to grant. The law reports contain numerous instances of the courts’ being requested to interpret wills where one party contends that the interest is usufructuary and the other claims that it is fiduciary. The actual decisions in these cases depend on whether the testator intended to grant the “remainder man,” the person who is to have the later enjoyment of the property, a vested or a conditional right.\n\nIn addition to the ordinary form of fideicommissum described above, two peculiar forms are recognized by the law, a fideicommissum residui and a fideicommissum purum.\n\nThe \"fideicommissum residui\" is a form of fideicommissum which constitutes an exception to the general rule that the fiduciary may not alienate the fideicommissary property. It is a fideicommissum of the residue or balance of the property left at the death of the fiduciary. Property is bequeathed to a fiduciary on condition that, on his or her death, whatever is left of the property is to go to another person.\n\nThe legal effect of such a disposition is that, by virtue of a rule of the Roman law, still in force in South Africa, the fiduciary is prima facie entitled in his or her lifetime to alienate or dispose of three-quarters of the property, but not more. Consequently, the fiduciary is only bound to transmit one-fourth of the property to the fideicommissary. If, however, the fiduciary gives security for restitution of one-quarter of the estate, the fiduciary may alienate the whole of the estate.\n\nThe fiduciary may not dispose of any of the property either by means of a donatio mortis causa, or by will. It follows that the fideicommissary may claim all of the property originally granted to the fiduciary that remains in the estate of the fiduciary upon the latter's death, even if it is more than a quarter of the original property. It would seem that, if the property remaining over has actually increased in amount or value, the fideicommissary may claim all of it on the principle that the person who bears the loss is entitled to the profits.\n\nThis was the original form of fideicommissum in Roman law, introduced to evade the technicalities and restrictions of the ordinary law of inheritance and legacy. It was a bequest to an heir or legatee (the fiduciary) with an instruction to hand over the bequest to a third party (the fideicommissary) who was otherwise disqualified from taking.\n\nThe interests of both the fiduciary and the fideicommissary vested immediately on the death of the testator, and were therefore simultaneous and coextensive rather than successive. The interest of the fiduciary was not a beneficial one; it was purely transitory, as the fiduciary was under an immediate and continuous duty to hand the bequest to the fideicommissary.\n\nLater, other forms of unconditional fideicommissa came to be recognised, such as the fideicommissum in diem and the fideicommissum sub modo. With the gradual assimilation of the rules relating to fideicommissa and legacies, the fideicommissum purum lost its original purpose. Its application in Roman-Dutch law was apparently extremely rare.\n\nIn Estate Kemp v McDonald's Trustee, however, Innes CJ used the concept of fideicommissum purum in an attempt to explain the juristic nature of a testamentary trust in South African law. Although criticised, this decision was subsequently followed in numerous cases. The term “fideicommissum purum” was used to denote generally an unconditional fideicommissum: one without any condition suspending the vesting of the interest of the fideicommissary.\n\nIn Braun v Blann & Botha NNO, however, the Appellate Division ruled that “it is both historically and jurisprudentially wrong to identify the trust with the fideicommissum and to equate a trustee to a fiduciary.” Nevertheless, it remains open to the testator to create an unconditional fideicommissum, such as one sub certo die: for example, a bequest to A for ten years, and thereafter to B.\n\nA trust may be created by will or by an act inter vivos. A testamentary trust is constituted when a testator bequeaths property to one person, called a “trustee” or an “administrator,” with an instruction to administer it for the benefit of another person or other persons appointed by the will, or for an impersonal object or purpose (the so-called charitable trust).\n\nThe essential feature of a trust is the separation of the ownership or control of property from the beneficial enjoyment thereof. The trustee acquires no beneficial interest in the property, acting merely as a conduit pipe in carrying out the dispositions in favour of the beneficiary. The interest of the beneficiary in the property may vest immediately on the death of the testator, or at some later date, depending on the intention of the testator as expressed in the terms of the will. Statutory provision has been made for the protection of trust property which is settled upon a person either inter vivos or by will, to be administered by him or her for the benefit of other persons.\n\nA clause or provision in a will which imposes on a beneficiary the duty of employing the proceeds of a bequest for certain specified purposes is termed a modus. The addition of a modus to a bequest does not make it conditional. Consequently, the legacy vests in the legatee on the testator's death; no fideicommissum is created in favour of the persons intended to be benefited.\n\nThe modus has to be distinguished from a condition. The modus can manifest itself in different forms:\n\n\nFrequently the language used in a will is not sufficiently clear and unambiguous for the executor to determine what interests in property are disposed of, or who the beneficiaries are. In such a case, it is necessary for the court to interpret the will. As stated before, the cardinal principle in construing a will is to ascertain from a consideration of it in its entirety the intention of the testator. In order to ascertain this intention, where the will is ambiguous, recourse is had to certain presumptions and canons of construction which have long been accepted in the interpretation of wills. Illustrations are given below of some of the more common and important dispositions, in connection with fideicommissa, which have been the subject of interpretation by the courts.\n\nThe court, in interpreting wills, leans in favour of an absolute ownership of property having been bequeathed rather than, as occurs in the case of a fideicommissum, a burdened ownership.\n\nFor instance, whenever a will mentions two persons as beneficiaries of the same property and there is a reasonable doubt whether the testator intended\n\n\nthere is a presumption that the disposition is not a fideicommissum, but that it is a direct substitution.\n\nFor example, suppose that the testator leaves “my farm to my son A and on A’s death to my son B.” It is not clear from these words whether the testator intended that both A, and B after A, should have an interest in the farm, or whether only one of them should acquire the farm. Since there is reasonable doubt as to the intention of the testator, the court will interpret the will as conferring an absolute ownership in the farm upon one of the sons only, thereby effecting a direct substitution. This the court does by assuming that the reference in the will to A's death meant not A's death at any time, but only if it occurred before the death of the testator. It follows that the will is construed as if it were worded “I leave my farm to my son A, and if A dies before me it is to go to my son B.”\n\nThis presumption arises only if there is a reasonable doubt as to the intention of the testator. Therefore, if it is shown that the testator contemplated the death of the first-mentioned beneficiary as taking place not in the testator's lifetime, but only after the testator's death, the presumption does not arise; the disposition is held to be a fideicommissum. For example, where the testator was fifty-seven years of age and left a farm to his grandson aged six, subject to the condition that, if the grandson came to die without lawful descendants, the farm should revert to the testator's children, the court held that the intention of the testator was to create a fideicommissum.\n\nThe presumption in favour of a direct substitution does not arise if it is clear that the testator intended to grant different interests in the same property to two persons, not alternatively but either successively (as in the case of a fideicommissum) or concurrently (as in the case where the ownership is left to one person subject to a usufruct in favour of another); in other words, there is no presumption that the interest of the beneficiary first mentioned is an ownership subject to a direct substitution, nor is there a presumption that his interest is usufructuary and not fiduciary.\n\nOne of the most common conditions inserted in wills regarding property passing from one person to another is “if the former dies without leaving children,” si sine liberis decesserit. For example, the testator leaves “my property to A, and if A dies without children, to B.” If A succeeds to the property and dies without leaving children, the condition is fulfilled and the property vests in B; but, if A dies, leaving children, the condition is not fulfilled. The property does not go to B; instead it goes to A's children, provided they are descendants of the testator and there are no contrary indications in the will, for in these circumstances a tacit fideicommissum in favour of the children is implied by law.\n\nThe same result is obtained where the si sine liberis condition is not express but implied. If the fiduciary is a descendant of the testator, and the fideicommissary is not, then in the absence of a contrary indication in the will the further condition ‘if the fiduciary die without children’ is implied before the fideicommissary interest can vest. Such a condition is implied in the case of fideicommissary substitution only and not in that of direct substitution.\n\nIn spite of the fact that there is a presumption against fideicommissa, nevertheless a fideicommissum is implied by law in favour of particular persons in the case of certain dispositions. The chief instances are those where an express fideicommissum is made conditional on a si sine liberis decesserit clause, and where there is a prohibition against alienation out of a family.\n\nAs we have just seen, where a testator leaves property to a fiduciary (A) subject to the condition (express or implied) that, if A should come to die without issue (si sine liberis decesserit), the property is to pass over to another person (B, the fideicommissary), the law implies a tacit fideicommissum in favour of A's issue, the liberi, provided that\n\n\nIt follows that, if these conditions are met, and if A dies leaving children or remoter descendants, they will inherit the property in preference to B.\n\nIf property is left to an heir on the condition that the heir shall not alienate it, but no provision is made for the property passing to any other heir in case of a breach of the condition, or if no heir is specified or indicated in whose favour the prohibition is imposed, the prohibition is of no force or effect and is said to be nudum, for there is no fideicommissary.\n\nIf, however, there is a provision that, on a breach of the condition, the property is to go to a certain heir, there is clearly a fideicommissum in favour of the mentioned heir, as where the testator leaves “my farm to A, subject to the condition that he shall not alienate it, and if he does the farm shall go to B.” Similarly, if a prohibition against alienation is made in favour of a class of persons, a fideicommissum is implied in favour of such class. For example, where the testator leaves “my farm to my daughter A, provided that she shall not alienate the farm out of the family,” a fideicommissum is created in favour of the testator's descendants. The class to be favoured must be clearly specified; otherwise no fideicommissum is constituted.\n\nThe question of whether one or more persons or generations are bound as fiduciaries by a prohibition against alienation depends on whether the prohibition is unicum (personal) or duplex (real).\n\nIf the prohibition is personal, it applies only to the persons prohibited and is confined to them. They may not alienate the property, but the fideicommissaries, once they have succeeded to the property, may do so. A prohibition is personal when it is imposed upon a certain person or persons by name or as a class, such as “children” (but not “descendants”), as, for example, where the testator leaves his farm to “my sons A and B,” or “to my sons,” or “to my children,” and prohibits them from alienating it out of the family. The restraint is personal to the children only or to the sons only, as the case may be. On their deaths, when the farm has descended to their heirs, the restraint is removed and the fideicommissum extinguished.\n\nIf, on the other hand, a prohibition is real, it binds all the persons to whom the property may descend. Not only is the first beneficiary or beneficiaries prohibited from alienating the property, but also any subsequent beneficiary to whom it may descend as a result of the fideicommissum. A prohibition is real when it is clearly the testator's intention to make it binding on successive or recurring generations, as when the testator prohibits his “descendants” from alienating the farm out of the family.\n\nIt is, however, enacted by the Immovable Property (Removal or Modification of Restrictions) Act that, after the commencement of the Act (October 1, 1965), any fideicommissum created in favour of more than two successive fideicommissaries shall be limited to two, whatever the wording of the will. Where the fideicommissum was created before the commencement of the Act, only two successive fideicomrnissaries are permitted from the date of the will. If, at the date of commencement, two or more fideicommissary substitutions have already taken place, the fideicommissum shall be terminated at the date of commencement.\n\nThe Wills Act contains several provisions that serve as interpretative aids when construing wills. Unless the context of a will indicates otherwise, when interpreting a will,\n\n\nVarious interests (usufructuary, fiduciary, or fideicommissary) relating to the same property may be combined. Each of these interests may be made subject to direct substitutions. The following are examples of the less complex of these combinations.\n\nA fideicommissum may be imposed upon a fideicommissum, as where the testator leaves “my farm to A; on A’s death after me it is to go to B; on B’s death after A it is to go to C.” In this case, B's interest is fideicommissary in respect of A's interest, and fiduciary in respect of C's interest. A familiar instance of such a disposition occurs in the case of a prohibition against the alienation of property out of a family, for there a fideicommissum is imposed on each successive generation; subject now, of course, to the statutory limit on the duration of fideicommissa.\n\nThis is both a fideicommissary and a direct substitution in respect of the same persons. For example, the testator leaves “my farm to A, and on his death it is to go to B; if A dies before me it is to go to B.” The object of this double substitution which was in use in former times was to ensure that B would succeed if the fideicommissum collapsed owing to the fiduciary predeceasing the testator. Today the double substitution is superfluous.\n\nFor example, the testator leaves “my farm to my son A, subject to a life usufruct to my sister B, or if B has predeceased me, to my sister C.” The legal effect of this disposition is that, on the testator's death, the ownership of the farm vests in A, if he is then alive—subject to a life usufruct in favour of B, for whom C may be directly substituted. In other words, if B is then alive, she acquires the usufruct of the farm, and C acquires no rights. If B dies before the testator, but C is alive upon his death, C acquires the life usufruct.\n\nFor example, the testator leaves “my farm to my son, subject to a life usufruct to my mother, and on her death a life usufruct to my wife.” On the testator's death, the ownership of the farm vests in the son, if he is then alive, and the usufruct vests in the mother, if she is then alive. The wife, however, acquires no vested interest, for her right is conditional on her surviving the mother. The wife's usufruct vests only if and when she is alive at the time of the mother's death. If the mother predeceases the testator, but the wife is alive at his death, then of course the usufruct vests in the latter.\n\nFor example, the testator leaves “my farm to my wife for her life, the farm to go on my death to my son A, or if A has predeceased me, to my son B.” On the testator's death the usufruct of the farm vests in his wife if she survives him, and the ownership of the farm subject to the usufruct vests in A, or, if A has predeceased the testator, in B.\n\nFor example, the testator leaves “my estate to my wife for her life, and on her death it is to be divided equally among our children or such of them as may then be alive.” On the testator's death, the usufruct of the estate vests in the widow, and on her death the ownership of the estate vests in the surviving children, these being directly substituted for the original group which consisted of the surviving children and those who predeceased their mother.\n\nFor example, the testator leaves “my farm to X and if X dies after me without children, it shall go to Y, but if X dies leaving children it shall go to X’s children.” A fideicommissum of the farm is constituted, X being the fiduciary and the fideicommissary either X's children or Y, the latter being directly substituted for the children in the event of X dying without leaving children. A similar disposition is effected where the testator leaves his farm “to my son A and on A’s death after me to A’s eldest son; if A has no son then alive, to A’s eldest daughter.” A simple form of disposition, with the same effect, is where the testator institutes “my wife sole heir and after her decease our children, and in case of the predecease of any child his lawful descendants.”\n\nThe chief effect of a will is to confer rights on the beneficiaries. A beneficiary, however, whether heir or legatee, acquires no right in the property of the testator unless he or she accepts the benefit.\n\nOn acceptance or adiation of the inheritance, the heir obtains a vested right to claim from the executor payment or delivery of all the property in the estate after satisfaction of the debts and legacies. But the heir's claim is enforceable only when the liquidation and distribution account has been confirmed. Where there is more than one heir, each has this right in respect of his proportionate share.\n\nOn the acceptance of a legacy, a legatee obtains a vested right to claim from the executor delivery of the specific asset bequeathed to him or her, or registration in the case of immovable property; this claim is enforceable only when the liquidation and distribution account has been confirmed.\n\nWhere the assets in the estate are sufficient to satisfy all the legacies, pecuniary and corporeal, in full, there is no difficulty as to each legatee obtaining delivery of the bequest; but problems arise where the property specified as being bequeathed did not in fact belong to the testator at all, or only belonged to the testator jointly with other persons.\n\nWhere the testator leaves as a legacy specified property which belongs in fact to a third person, but which the testator in error thought he or she owned, the legacy is void; if, however, the testator knew that the property belonged to a third person it is the duty of the executor to buy the property from the owner at a reasonable price and to hand it over to the legatee, and if unable to do so to pay the legatee its value. If the property had been mortgaged or pledged, and the testator was aware of that fact, then unless a contrary intention appears from the will it is the duty of the executor to discharge the debt and to hand over the property free to the legatee.\n\nIf the property specified belongs to the residuary heir then, whether the testator knew or did not know that fact, the legacy is valid. The heir, however, has an election to accept or to refuse the terms. If the heir accepts the inheritance, the heir must allow his or her own property to go to the legatee; if the heir refuses to adiate and retains his or her own property, the heir cannot accept any benefit under the will.\n\nWhere the property specified belongs jointly to the testator and to a third person it is clear that the testator cannot override the rights of the co-owner; the testator's will cannot do more than he or she personally could do and the legacy is not binding on the co-owner. There is a presumption in such a case that only the testator's share is bequeathed if it is doubtful from the will whether the testator intended to burden his or her estate with the duty of buying out the co-owner's share. This presumption may, however, be rebutted and more easily so where the testator bequeaths property belonging jointly to the testator and his or her spouse. If the property bequeathed belongs jointly to the testator and to the residuary heir, the whole of the property is deemed to be bequeathed; but the heir has an election whether to accept the terms of the will or to keep his or her share of the property.\n\nIf the property belongs to the legatee himself the legacy is void, unless the testator had some real right, such as a mortgage, in the property; in that case the testator is deemed to remit such right and to leave the property unburdened to the legatee.\n\nIf, after the debts of the testator have been paid, the estate is insufficient to satisfy all the legacies in full, they are reduced proportionately or “abated.” There is a presumption that abatement applies to all the legacies unless the will shows a clear intention to the contrary. A will may, of course, make express provision for abatement, for example the abatement of annuities in the event of a shortfall of income. It would appear that South Africa law draws no distinction between specific and general legacies for the purposes of abatement.\n\nThe order of distribution among the beneficiaries in an estate which is unable fully to discharge all the legacies is analogous if not identical with the order of distribution in insolvency. The beneficiaries have personal claims against the estate and they are in the position of creditors who cannot all be paid in full. The preferred legatees correspond to the secured creditors, and the other legatees to the concurrent creditors. The preferred legatees have preference and are satisfied in full and the balance is divided proportionately among the remaining legatees. The heirs in such a case get nothing at all.\n\nUnder a simple form of fideicommissum the right of the fiduciary (as stated earlier) vests on the death of the testator; the right of the fideicommissary vests only upon the fulfilment of the attached condition, which is almost invariably that the fideicommissary be alive at the death of the fiduciary, whereupon the fideicommissary becomes the unconditional owner of the property. Likewise, if the fiduciary for any reason fails to take or renounces his or her rights, the inheritance passes to the surviving fideicommissaries, provided that the latter class is then ascertainable and that there is no other provision in the will postponing vesting or enjoyment of the interest. Pending the vesting in the fideicommissary, the right and duties of the parties are as follows:\n\nThe fiduciary acquires a resolutive ownership; he or she has the right to possess the property, to use it and take the fruits, but not to depreciate it. The fiduciary may not alienate or mortgage the property except in the following cases:\n\n\nThe fiduciary's rights are subject to the rights of creditors. Hence execution may be levied against the fiduciary's rights in pursuance of a judgment obtained against him or her. On the insolvency, the fiduciary's rights vest in his or her trustee (unless the will provides otherwise) and they may be sold subject, of course, to the rights of the fideicommissary. A fiduciary, again, may let the property for the period of his or her right, but not beyond the same. Consequently, the fiduciary may not grant a lease which is entitled to registration, such as a lease in longum tempus, with the exception of a lease for his or her own life.\n\nThe fiduciary, if called upon, must give security for delivery of the property to the fideicommissary when the condition is fulfilled unless\n\n\nIn the case of a fideicommissum residui, security for a quarter only of the property need be given. In the case of immovable property, it is the duty of the executor to have the terms of the fideicommissary disposition registered or endorsed against the title deeds of the property, and consequently there is probably no necessity for security to be given.\n\nIf the estate of the fideicommissary heir or legatee is sequestrated, his or her contingent interest does not vest in the trustee; but if the interest becomes vested while the estate is under sequestration, it ipso facto passes to the trustee.\n\nA fideicommissary has prior to the vesting of his or her interest only a contingent right to the property (sometimes referred to as a mere spes or expectation of benefit). If, however, any attempt is made by the fiduciary or by any third persons to infringe the rights of the fideicommissary the court will give the latter ample and effective protection. Thus the court will interdict a threatened alienation of the fideicommissary property, and it will refuse to grant execution against the property in respect of a judgment obtained against the fiduciary. Similarly the court will generally not allow the fiduciary to mortgage the property, for the fideicommissary is not liable for the debts of the fiduciary; but as pointed out earlier, there are circumstances in which the court may consent to the mortgage or sale of the fideicommissary property. The contingent right of the fideicommissary may be ceded and such cession need not be notarially executed.\n\n\"Jus accrescendi\", or the right of accrual, is the right of beneficiaries to whom an interest in property has been left jointly to take the share of one of them who fails to take his or her share. Such failure may take place by the death of the beneficiary before vesting occurs; or by the beneficiary's incapacity to take his or her share; or by the beneficiary's refusal to adiate.\n\nWhere the \"jus accrescendi\" operates the co-beneficiaries to whom the vacant portion accrues take the same shares thereof as they do of their own portion. Where it does not operate the share vacated by a co-heir devolves upon the intestate heirs of the testator, while the share vacated by a co-legatee falls into the residue of the estate and devolves upon the heirs, testate or intestate, of the testator.\n\nThe right of accrual, then, is the right co-heirs and co-legatees have of inheriting a share which a co-heir or co-legatee cannot, or does not wish to, receive. Accrual can, however, only operate if provision is not made for substitution either by the testator himself or herself, or \"ex lege\" through the operation of section 2C of the Wills Act.\n\nWhether or not accrual operates in certain circumstances depends on the intention of the testator as it appears from the will. The testator may make some express provision on the point. If the intention of the testator is not clear, his probable intention must be deduced from certain indications in the language of the will itself, or from the surrounding circumstances. To assist the court in ascertaining the testator's probable intention various canons of construction or \"conjecturae\" have been evolved, the most important of which concerns the method of joinder of the beneficiaries. The mode in which beneficiaries are joined is only one of the indications, although an important one, in ascertaining the probable intention of the testator. It must be stressed, however, that these \"conjecturae\" are merely guides and not hard and fast rules of law.\n\nThe testator may make express provision for a right of accruallapsing of the share of one of several beneficiaries by substituting the remainder in his place; for example, where he leaves his estate “to my children and if any of them predecease me, his share shall pass to the others,” or “shall revert to the estate,” or “to my children, or such of them as may be alive at my death.”\n\nOn the other hand, the testator may expressly negative any accrual to the original beneficiaries where he or she directs that upon the lapsing of a share it shall go to some third person or persons, e.g. where he appoints “my children as my heirs and if any of them predecease me his lawful descendants shall take his share.”\n\nIn the absence of any contrary indication in the will as to the testator's intention the \"jus accrescendi\" takes place where the beneficiaries have been appointed jointly, or \"re et verbis\"; but not where they have been appointed to separate shares, or \"verbis tantum\". It is important to note, however, that even if the form of joinder of heirs in a will is \"verbis tantum\" the intention of the testator may be otherwise. It is in the will that indications of the testator's opinion must be sought but it is permissible and sometimes essential to read and interpret the will in the light of the relevant circumstances existing at the time of its making.\n\nThus there is generally a right of accrual where the appointment is joint, e.g. “to A and B jointly,” or simply “to A and B,” or “to our three sons.” On the other hand, there is \"prima facie\" no right of accrual where the appointment is \"verbis tantum\", i.e. to separate shares—e.g. where the property is left “to A and B in equal shares,” or where the estate “is to be divided into five portions each of which is to go to a specified person,” or where “the property is to be divided among the children, share and share alike”—and clearly not where separate and distinct portions of a farm are left to various beneficiaries.\n\nIn order that the \"jus accrescendi\" should operate where the beneficiaries are appointed \"verbis tantum\", it must appear from the will that the testator positively contemplated the lapse of a specific share, and that the testator intended that such share should in that event accrue to the other beneficiaries. It has been suggested that such an intention appears where the testator appoints two or more persons “sole and universal heirs.”\n\nThe rules relating to the \"jus accrescendi\" apply not only where the interest disposed of is ownership but also where it is a fideicommissary interest, or a usufruct, or a right to income under a trust; but not where it is a fiduciary interest, and adiation has taken place, for the interest has then vested.\n\nOnce an interest has vested in the beneficiaries there can be no \"jus accrescendi\", because if one of the beneficiaries dies his share vests in his estate. There is an obvious exception in the case of a usufruct; on the death of one of the usufructuaries, his interest accrues to the other usufructuaries.\n\nAny person who has not been nominated as executor in a will, or who has not been exempted from providing security in terms of a will, must furnish security to the Master for the proper performance of their duties. Security is in the form of a bond of security, which is usually obtained from an insurance company against payment of a premium. If the executor later defaults and causes loss to the estate, the Master can enforce the security and recover the loss from the executor or the surety.\n\nThe amount of security is determined by the value of the assets in the estate. The cost of furnishing security is a liability against the estate, and is paid as an administration cost. The executor will not be required to furnish security\n\n\nDespite the above, the Master will call for security\n\n\nIn terms of section 29 of the Administration of Estates Act, as soon as letters of executorship have been granted, the executor must immediately advertise for creditors to submit claims against the estate within thirty days for publication.\n\nThe advertisements are required to be published on the same day in the Government Gazette, and in a newspaper that circulates in the district where the deceased was ordinarily resident at the time of death. If, at any time within twelve months prior to death, the deceased resided in any other district, the advertisement must also appear in a newspaper circulating in that district.\n\nIf a creditor does not lodge a claim in terms of the notice, the creditor runs the risk of having that claim excluded from the liquidation and distribution account. It has become customary to call upon debtors to pay their debts to the estate within the same period, even though this is not prescribed.\n\nIn terms of section 35 of the Administration of Estates Act, once the account has been submitted to the Master, it is examined by one of the officials of the Master's Office to establish whether or not it is in order. If it is not found to be in order, the executor will be instructed to amend it to the satisfaction of the Master.\n\nOnce it has been approved by the Master, the executor advertises the account to lie for inspection. The advertisements are required to be published on the same date in the Government Gazette and a newspaper that circulates in the district where the deceased was ordinarily resident. If, at any time within twelve months prior to death, the deceased resided in any other district, the advertisement must also appear in a newspaper circulating in that district.\n\nThe advertisement must state the dates on which the account will lie for inspection, and the places at which it can be inspected. The account will lie for inspection at the relevant Master's Office, and at the offices of the Magistrate in the district where the deceased was ordinarily resident. If the deceased resided in more than one district during the twelve months prior to death, the account lies at that district's Magistrate as well.\n\nThe purpose of the account lying for inspection is to enable any interested party to object to the account if that party is of the opinion that it is incorrect. Any objections to the account must be submitted to the Master, who will then forward the objection to the executor for his comments, in terms of the audi alterem partem principle.\n\nOn receipt of the executor's comments, the Master makes a ruling. If the Master is of the opinion that the objection is well founded, the executor will be directed to amend the account. The Master may also refuse to sustain an objection.\n\nAny person aggrieved by the Master's decision may approach the court within thirty days. The court may make any order it deems fit.\n\n\n\n\n\"Ex Parte Boedel Steenkamp\" 1962 (3) SA 954 (O).\n"}
{"id": "14204910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14204910", "title": "Like-kind exchange", "text": "Like-kind exchange\n\nA like-kind exchange under United States tax law, also known as a 1031 exchange, is a transaction or series of transactions that allows for the disposal of an asset and the acquisition of another replacement asset without generating a current tax liability from the sale of the first asset. A like-kind exchange can involve the exchange of one business for another business, one real estate investment property for another real estate investment property, livestock for qualifying livestock, and exchanges of other qualifying assets. Like-kind exchanges have been characterized as tax breaks or \"tax loopholes\".\n\nThis kind of transaction is also called a \"1031 exchange\", because Internal Revenue Code section 1031 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code allows owners of certain kinds of assets to defer capital gains taxes on any exchange of like-kind properties. Both the relinquished property and the acquired property must be like-kind, and must be held for business or investment purposes. The sum of assets of each side of the exchange must be equal in value. Taxes on capital gains are not charged upon sale of a property if a qualifying replacement property is acquired. The transaction has to be properly structured, including that the taxpayer cannot be deemed to have actually or constructively received the sales price of the relinquished property. To avoid \"constructive receipt\" of the sales proceeds, a neutral party is often used to maintain the sales proceeds out of the reach of the taxpayer. The replacement property generally must be \"identified\" within 45 days of when the original property is transferred, and must be \"acquired\" within 180 days of when the original property is transferred. If the transaction is handled properly, the payment of tax is deferred until the replacement property is later sold with no reinvestment in a qualifying property. \n\nThe idea behind this section of the tax code is that when an individual or a business sells a property to buy another, no economic gain has been achieved. There has simply been a transfer from one property to another. For example, if a real estate investor sells an apartment building to buy another one, he or she will not be charged tax on any gains he or she made on the original apartment building. When the investor sells the original apartment building and purchases a new one, the value used from the original to buy the new one has not changed – the only thing that has changed is where the value resides.\n\nA like-kind exchange is a type of \"non-recognition provision\". According to section 1001(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, all realized gains and losses must be recognized \"except as otherwise provided in this subtitle\". A like-kind exchange is one of the qualified exceptions, serving as the proto-typical \"non-recognition provision\".\n\nNon-recognition is conferred on a like-kind exchange on the basis that the form of the taxpayer's investment changes while the substance of the investment does not. In a like-kind exchange, the realized gain or loss usually never disappears; rather, the unrecognized gain or loss typically carries over into the new asset. When the new asset is sold or exchanged in a taxable transaction, the realized gain or loss from the first transaction will then be recognized.\n\nSeveral requirements must be met in a like-kind exchange to ensure that tax liability is not created upon the sale of the first asset:\n\n\nOne critical issue in a like-kind exchange is defining \"property of like kind.\" The tax code contains no such definition. Treasury Regulation § 1.1031(a)-1(b) offers a little guidance, suggesting that the term \"like kind\" refers to \"the nature of character of the property and not to its grade or quality\". But the regulation does not further define a property's nature, character, grade or quality. Rather, it states that \"[o]ne kind or class of property may not be exchanged for property of a different kind of class\". \n\nExchanges of personal property (vehicles, equipment, intellectual property rights) are subject to more restrictive rules than exchanges of real property, as set forth by Treasury Regulation § 1.1031(a)-2. Depreciable personal property is generally considered like-kind to other depreciable personal property that has the same \"General Asset Class\" in assigning class lives for purposes of depreciation. For intangible property (and personal property not subject to depreciation), the more general test of \"nature or character\" applies. While livestock can qualify for like-kind exchange treatment, livestock of different sexes will not qualify as like-kind.\n\nSix types of property are not eligible for a like-kind exchange: (1) stock in trade or other property held primarily for sale; (2) stock, bonds, or notes; (3) other securities or evidences of indebtedness or interest; (4) interests in a partnership; (5) certificates of trust or beneficial interests; and (6) choses in action.\n\nThe unrecognized gain or unrecognized loss from a like-kind exchange is preserved in the new property received in the exchange. New property receives the basis of the old property, adjusted in value for any other property given or received in the exchange (see below for further discussion of \"boot\"). \n\nThe taxpayer's basis in the new property is determined by starting with the taxpayer's basis in the old property exchanged. Adjustments are then made as needed to account for other property that may be received in the exchange. By using the taxpayer's basis in the old property as the reference point for the new property's basis, unrecognized gain or loss is preserved.\n\nBy way of example, let's say a taxpayer exchanges an old asset worth $20,000 in which the taxpayer had a basis of $14,000 for a like-kind asset. Assuming the exchange qualifies for non-recognition (based on how the taxpayer held the old property and how the taxpayer intends to hold the new property), the $6,000 realized gain will not be recognized, and the taxpayer's basis in the new asset will be $14,000. Because the new asset likely has a value of $20,000 (in an arms'-length transaction the two assets would be deemed to have equal values), the $6,000 unrecognized gain is preserved in the new asset. Thus, in any like-kind exchange, the exact amount of any unrecognized gain or loss is preserved in the basis of the asset acquired in the exchange.\n\nSometimes taxpayers participating in a like-kind exchange receive cash or other property in addition to the like-kind property. This non-like-kind property is referred to as a \"boot\", (from the phrase \"to boot\", as in \"I got like-kind property and other property to boot\"). However, when that occurs, the taxpayer has not received solely like-kind property. Fortunately, a \"ceiling rule\" in section 1031 takes care of this problem by providing that gain or loss is recognized, but only to the extent of the amount of boot received. \n\nFor example, let's say a taxpayer receives like-kind property worth $12,000 and $8,000 in cash in exchange for old property with a basis of $14,000. The basis in the new property is determined by subtracting the cash received ($8,000) from the basis in the old property ($14,000) and then adding the gain recognized ($6,000). Thus, upon a cash sale of the new property for its fair market value of $12,000, no gain or loss would result.\n\nProperty transferred in a like-kind exchange is often encumbered by liabilities and debt, especially where the asset is real estate. In this regard, the tax code treats relief from indebtedness as additional cash boot in a like-kind exchange. In other words, the assumption of a taxpayer's debt is treated like the receipt of cash by the taxpayer.\n\nFor instance, let's say a taxpayer has an asset worth $20,000 and a basis of $8,000 with a debt in the amount of $4,000. The taxpayer trades the asset in exchange for like-kind property worth $16,000, and the other party to the exchange expressly assumes the $4,000 liability. The other party will be unwilling to pay any extra consideration in this transaction, because the taxpayer is receiving $16,000 of equity (property worth $20,000 but subject to a debt of $4,000) in exchange for property worth $16,000. No extra consideration should be paid.\n\nThe receipt of a boot will trigger recognition of gain when gain is realized on the exchange of the original asset, as shown above. A boot does not trigger recognition when a \"loss\" is realized.\n\nFor example: Ashley trades in a business truck with an adjusted basis of $27,000 for another business truck worth $18,000 plus $2,000 of cash. Ashley realizes a $7,000 loss which is all deferred and no gain or loss is recognized. The $2,000 cash only makes a difference in calculating realized, not recognized loss.\n\nWhile taxpayers generally prefer non-recognition for realized gains (so they do not have to recognize the gain currently and pay the resulting federal income tax currently), they usually prefer to recognize realized losses currently in order to obtain the tax benefit of the resulting deduction sooner. That means a like-kind exchange is bad news in the case of a realized loss. None of the loss will be recognized regardless of the boot received.\n\nSection 267(a) of the tax code disallows deductions for losses resulting from sales to related persons. However, the basis of the property received by the taxpayer in a like-kind exchange with a relative is governed by section 1031. In other words, the taint of disallowance under section 267 does not carry over to the new asset. The loss is preserved in the basis of the new property when the new property is sold.\n\nIn many cases, two parties are unable to complete a like-kind exchange alone. For instance, one party may not wish to receive like-kind property or may wish to recognize loss on property that has declined in value. The two parties may involve a third party willing to pay cash (perhaps because the new property has a value less than the old property's basis, or because the taxpayer's desire for cash exceeds the desire to minimize liability for federal income taxes). When a third party willing to pay cash is involved, however, Revenue Ruling 77-297 indicates that non-recognition will apply if the taxpayer acquires the new property solely for the purpose of exchanging it with property of a like-kind.\n\nIn Starker v. United States, (see section 1031) the court held that a taxpayer was entitled to section 1031 non-recognition upon the ultimate receipt of like-kind property, even though the taxpayer in that case had already transferred the property to the buyer and even though the taxpayer had up to five years to identify the replacement property. Congress responded to this ruling by imposing time limits on the identification and receipt of replacement property.\n\nNowadays, taxpayers must identify the replacement property within 45 days of the transfer of like-kind property. Taxpayers must also receive the replacement property within 180 days of transfer of like-kind property.\n\nDue to periodic changes to the tax code, as well as detailed regulations that contain a number of technical requirements, it is important to check the most current rules and regulations before proceeding with a like-kind exchange. Current rules require taxpayers to submit an 8824 form to the IRS detailing the terms of the deal.\n\nAs of 2013, expansion and exploitation by major corporations of like-kind exchanges, originally intended to relieve family farmers of capital gains tax when swapping land or livestock, to avoid taxes was cited by \"The New York Times\" as an example of the need for tax reform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56054100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56054100", "title": "MEO advertisement for data access", "text": "MEO advertisement for data access\n\nThe MEO advertisement for data access is an advertisement by Portuguese telecommunications provider MEO in which the company offers to sell additional access to particular online services beyond a user's general data allotment. The advertisement was the focus of a discussion beginning in October 2017 and covering topics including net neutrality, Internet in Portugal, European Union law, the United States Federal Communications Commission, and a range of social issues.\n\nMEO posted their advertisement for Internet services on their own website. On 26 October 2017, Democratic Party U.S. Representative Ro Khanna posted a screenshot of MEO's website to his Twitter feed while stating that their sales model was a violation of net neutrality and bad.\n\nFollowing Khanna's message, the technology community at Reddit discussed it on 27 October. Net neutrality advocate Cory Doctorow featured the ad as an illustration of a net neutrality violation on \"Boing Boing\" on 28 October. \"Quartz\" reported that the ad showed a net neutrality violation on 30 October. Tim Wu, the legal scholar who defined the term \"net neutrality\", commented on 30 October after reading the Quartz article that the ad did show a violation of net neutrality. From this point the discussion was far ranging. By 22 November MEO published a response to the attention.\n\nMany media sources reported that the sales model which the image described was a bad thing for being a violation of net neutrality.\n\nSome other media sources reported that many people are misunderstanding the image. To clarify, these sources reported that MEO's sales model is aligned with Portuguese and European law, and that law defines net neutrality in a way that permits MEO's sales model. In another clarification point, sources noted that the MEO ad is for services to mobile phones and not an additional fee to broadband service.\n"}
{"id": "10518620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518620", "title": "Martens Clause", "text": "Martens Clause\n\nThe Martens Clause (pronounced ) was introduced into the preamble to the 1899 Hague Convention II – Laws and Customs of War on Land.\n\nThe clause took its name from a declaration read by Friedrich Martens, the Russian delegate at the Hague Peace Conferences of 1899. It reads as follows:\nThe Clause appears in a slightly modified form in the 1907 Hague conventions:\nThe Clause was introduced as a compromise wording for the dispute between the Great Powers who considered francs-tireurs to be unlawful combatants subject to execution on capture and smaller states who maintained that they should be considered lawful combatants.\n\nThe clause did not appear in the Geneva Conventions of 1949, but was it included in the additional protocols of 1977. It is in article 1 paragraph 2 of Protocol I (which covers international conflicts), and the fourth paragraph of the preamble to Protocol II (which covers non-international conflicts). The wording in both is identical but slightly modified from the version used in the Hague Convention of 1907:\nIn its commentary (Geneva 1987), the ICRC states that although the Martens Clause is considered to be part of customary international law, the plenipotentiaries considered its inclusion appropriate because:\nRupert Ticehurst, a Lecturer in Law, at King's College School of Law in London, writes that:\nThe International Court of Justice (ICJ) in their advisory opinion on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons issued on 8 July 1996, had to consider the general laws of armed conflict before they could consider the specific laws relating to nuclear weapons. Several different interpretations of this clause were presented in oral and written submissions to the ICJ. Although the ICJ advisory opinion did not provide a clear understanding of the Clause, several of submissions to the court provided an insight into its meaning.\n\nThe evidence that Ticehurst presents is that just as in 1899 there was a disagreement between the great powers and the minor powers that lead to the formulation of the Clause, so in 1996 a similar divergence of views exists between the declared nuclear powers and the non nuclear powers with the nuclear powers taking a narrow view of the Clause and the non nuclear powers taking a more expansive view.\n\nTicehurst concludes that:\nSeveral national and international courts have considered the Martens Clause when making their judgements. In none of these cases however have the laws of humanity or the dictates of the public conscience been recognised as new and independent right. The clause served rather as general statement for humanitarian principles as well as guideline to the understanding and interpretation of existing rules of international law.\n\nThe Martens Clause was quoted in the following judicial rulings:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "198684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198684", "title": "McAfee", "text": "McAfee\n\nMcAfee, LLC (; formerly known as McAfee Associates, Inc. from 1987–2014 and Intel Security Group from 2014–2017) is an American global computer security software company headquartered in Santa Clara, California and claims to be the world's largest dedicated security technology company.\n\nThe company was purchased by Intel in February 2011, and became part of the Intel Security division.\n\nOn September 7, 2016, Intel announced a strategic deal with TPG Capital to convert Intel Security into a joint venture between both companies called McAfee. That deal closed on April 3, 2017. Thoma Bravo took a minority stake in the new company, and Intel maintains a 49% stake.\n\nThe company was founded in 1987 as McAfee Associates, named for its founder John McAfee, who resigned from the company in 1994. McAfee was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 1992. Network Associates was formed in 1997 as a merger of McAfee Associates, Network General, PGP Corporation and Helix Software.\n\nThe company restructured in 2004, beginning with the sale of its Magic Solutions business to Remedy, a subsidiary of BMC Software early in the year. In mid-2004, the company sold the Sniffer Technologies business to a venture capital backed firm named Network General (the same name as the original owner of Sniffer Technologies), and changed its name back to McAfee to reflect its focus on security-related technologies.\n\nAmong other companies bought and sold by McAfee is Trusted Information Systems, which developed the Firewall Toolkit, the free software foundation for the commercial Gauntlet Firewall, which was later sold to Secure Computing Corporation.\n\nMcAfee, as a result of brief ownership of TIS Labs/NAI Labs/Network Associates Laboratories/McAfee Research, was highly influential in the world of Open Source software, as that organization produced portions of the Linux, FreeBSD, and Darwin operating systems, and developed portions of the BIND name server software and SNMP version 3.\n\nMcAfee had acquired Calgary, Alberta, Canada-based FSA Corporation, which helped the company diversify its security offerings away from just client-based antivirus software by bringing on board its own network and desktop encryption technologies.\n\nThe FSA team also oversaw the creation of a number of other technologies that were leading edge at the time, including firewall, file encryption, and public key infrastructure product lines. While those product lines had their own individual successes including PowerBroker (written by Dean Huxley and Dan Freedman and now sold by BeyondTrust), the growth of antivirus ware always outpaced the growth of the other security product lines. It is fair to say that McAfee remains best known for its anti-virus and anti-spam products.\n\nOn August 19, 2010, Intel announced that it would purchase McAfee for $48 a share in a deal valued at $7.68 billion.\n\nOn January 6, 2014, Intel CEO Brian Krzanich announced during the Consumer Electronics Show the name change from McAfee Security to Intel Security. The company's red shield logo would remain, with the firm continuing to operate as a wholly owned Intel subsidiary. John McAfee, who no longer has any involvement in the company, expressed his pleasure at his name no longer being associated with the software. \"I am now everlastingly grateful to Intel for freeing me from this terrible association with the worst software on the planet. These are not my words, but the words of millions of irate users.\" However, as of 2016 the products still bore the McAfee name.\n\nThe company was spun back out of Intel on April 4, 2017.\n\nMcAfee primarily develops digital-security tools for personal computers and server devices, and more recently, for mobile devices.\n\nMcAfee brands, products and sub-products include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46547924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46547924", "title": "Monckton Commission", "text": "Monckton Commission\n\nThe Monckton Commission, officially the Advisory Commission for the Review of the Constitution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, was set up by the British government under the chairmanship of Walter Monckton, 1st Viscount Monckton of Brenchley, in 1960. Its purpose was to investigate and make proposals for the future of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (or Central African Federation), made up of Southern Rhodesia, Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland—respectively equivalent to today's Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi.\n\nThe Commission had 20 members, appointed as representatives of six different interest groups:\n\nThe Commission concluded that the Federation could not be maintained except by force or through massive changes in racial legislation. It advocated a majority of black African members in the Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesian legislatures and giving these territories the option to leave the Federation after five years.\n\nReleased in October 1960, the report advocated sweeping changes to be made to the federal structure, including black African majorities in the Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesian legislatures. The Federal Prime Minister Sir Roy Welensky was outraged when the report was published, calling it the \"death knell of federation\" and rejecting it out of hand. Black nationalist opinion was just as opposed, but on different grounds. All nationalists wanted an end to federation, and independence for the territories as black-majority-ruled states.\n\nThe Monckton Commission toured the Federation in February 1960. It had been given limited terms of reference and was boycotted by the opposition Labour Party and the black nationalists in Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesia. As the Commission's composition seemed weighted towards a continuation of the Federation, its report disappointed the British government. The Monckton Commission reported widespread and sincere opposition to the Federation in the two northern territories. It considered Federation could not survive without at least a major devolution of powers to Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesia, giving more voting rights to black Africans and lessening racial discrimination. Most importantly, it also recommended that Britain should retain the right to allow the secession of either northern territory, recognising that black nationalists would not accept even a modified Federation.\n\nThe British government broadly accepted Monckton's report, and this signaled a withdrawal of support for the Federation and the acceptance of early majority rule for Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesia. Accordingly, and despite opposition from Sir Robert Armitage, the Governor of Nyasaland, from the Governments of the Federation and of Southern Rhodesia, and from some colleagues in the cabinet, Colonial Secretary Iain Macleod released Hastings Banda from detention on 1 April 1960 and immediately began to negotiate with him on Nyasaland's constitutional future. The state of emergency was lifted on 16 June 1960. The Malawi Congress Party was formed in 1959 as the successor to the banned Nyasaland African Congress, with Banda as leader. Following an overwhelming Malawi Congress Party victory in August 1961 elections, preparations were made for Nyasaland's independence, which was achieved on 6 July 1964 under the name Malawi.\n\nThe Federation was created under a British Act of Parliament of 1953 which made provision for a conference to be held at some time during the period 1960 to 1962 to review the Federal Constitution. The United Kingdom and Federal Government and the governments of the three constituent territories were to be represented, and any Federal Bill to amend the Constitution required the votes of two-thirds of the members of the Federal Assembly and had also to gain the assent of the United Kingdom parliament before becoming law. If the such proposed amendment were objected to by one or more of the territorial Legislatures, the British government could not override that objection if either House of Parliament resolved to accept it.\n\nFollowing the report of the Monckton Commission, which suggested an early conference on the Federal Constitution, the Lord Chancellor, Lord Kilmuir stated the British government’s position on the future of the Federation. He accepted that it had no power to intervene in the internal affairs of Southern Rhodesia, but said that Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland remained the British government’s responsibility. Kilmuir also stated that the Act of Parliament that created the Federation expressly reserved to the British parliament the right to make such provision for the Federation’s future as it saw fit.\nIt had been agreed between the British and Federal governments in 1957 that a Federal Review Conference on future of Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland would be held in 1960, and this began in London, on 5 December 1960. However, the Federal talks were suspended on 16 December 1960 so that talks could be held on constitutional developments in two of the three constituent territories. These continued until February 1961, but did not include Nyasaland, as Hastings Banda, who only attended the conference with extreme reluctance, walked out on 12 December. The talks also failed to produce a workable constitutional solution for Northern Rhodesia; Banda’s success in the Nyasaland elections of August 1961 made it inevitable that Nyasaland at least would leave the Federation.\nThe conference did little except to make clear the views (opinions only, with no actual supporting statistics at this point) of Banda for Nyasaland and Kaunda for Northern Rhodesia that Africans in the northern two territories wanted to leave the Federation, and of Joshua Nkomo that the Afrcan majority in Southern Rhodesia wanted majority rule. .\n"}
{"id": "42426615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42426615", "title": "Morton A. Brody Distinguished Judicial Service Award", "text": "Morton A. Brody Distinguished Judicial Service Award\n\nThe Morton A. Brody Distinguished Judicial Service Award is presented annually by Colby College to a United States federal or state judge who embodies the qualities of integrity, compassion, humanity, and judicial craftsmanship. The award is named for Morton A. Brody, and was established in 2001 at the request of the Brody family. It is conferred biennially, with the exception of 2001 and 2002.\n"}
{"id": "5809474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5809474", "title": "National Insurance Act 1911", "text": "National Insurance Act 1911\n\nThe National Insurance Act 1911 created National Insurance, originally a system of health insurance for industrial workers in Great Britain based on contributions from employers, the government, and the workers themselves. It was one of the foundations of the modern welfare state. It also provided unemployment insurance for designated cyclical industries. It formed part of the wider social welfare reforms of the Liberal Government of 1906–1915. David Lloyd George, the Liberal Chancellor of the Exchequer, was the prime moving force behind its design, negotiations with doctors and other interest groups, and final passage.\n\nLloyd George followed the example of Germany, which under conservative Chancellor Otto von Bismarck had provided compulsory national insurance against sickness from 1884. After visiting Germany in 1908, Lloyd George said in his 1909 Budget speech that Britain should aim to be \"putting ourselves in this field on a level with Germany; we should not emulate them only in armaments.\" His measure gave the British working classes the first contributory system of insurance against illness and unemployment. The Act only applied to wage earners—about 70% of the work force—their families and the unwaged were not covered.\n\nAfter first praising the proposal, the Conservatives split, and most voted against it. But when returned to office they did not change it.\n\nSome trade unions who operated their own insurance schemes, and friendly societies who had their own schemes, at first opposed the proposal, but Lloyd George convinced most of them to support it. The friendly societies and trade unions were given a major role in administering health insurance. Covered workers outside those agencies dealt with the local post office. The government picked up responsibility for the basic benefits that the unions and societies had promised, thus greatly helping their financial reserves.\n\nThe Act was psychologically important, as it removed the need for unemployed workers to rely on the stigmatised social welfare provisions of the Poor Law. This hastened the end of the Poor Law as a social welfare provider: the Poor Law Unions were abolished in 1929, and the administration of poor relief was transferred to the counties and county boroughs.\n\nKey figures in the implementation of the Act included Robert Laurie Morant and especially economist William Braithwaite, who drafted the details after inspecting the German system.\n\nThe medical profession was angry with the law, despite support from some prominent leaders such as Victor Horsley. Some critics on the right such as Hilaire Belloc considered the Act to be a manifestation of \"The Servile State\", which Belloc blasted in his book of the same name.\n\nThe National Insurance Act Part I provided for a National Insurance scheme with provision of medical benefits. All workers who earned under £160 a year had to pay 4 pence a week to the scheme; the employer paid 3 pence, and general taxation paid 2 pence (Lloyd George called it the \"ninepence for fourpence\"). Under the Act, workers could take sick leave and be paid 10 shillings a week for the first 13 weeks, and 5 shillings a week for the next 13 weeks. Workers also gained access to free treatment for tuberculosis, and the sick were eligible for treatment by a panel doctor. Due to pressure from the Co-operative Women's Guild, the National Insurance Act provided maternity benefits.\n\nIn parts of Scotland whose economy was still largely based on subsistence farming, the collection of cash contributions was impractical. The Highlands and Islands Medical Service was established in the crofting counties on a non-contributory basis in 1913.\n\nThough the fund was held centrally, and the obligation to pay into it was a nationally imposed one, access to the scheme was via \"Approved Societies\", who collected the contributions, paid out for treatment, and provided day-to-day administration. A worker could choose which Approved Society to belong to; this stimulated competition between the societies. Any organisation could become an Approved Society, as long as it was registered under the Act, and complied with the Act's obligations, including to operate on a not-for-profit basis. As well as societies created by the Trade Unions, and friendly societies, commercial insurers also established Approved Societies, such as the National Amalgamated Approved Society (created by Pearl Assurance and others); the largest Approved Societies were the four operated by Prudential, which collectively looked after 4.3 million members.\n\nThe 1911 Act only allowed Approved Societies to collect the contributions of their members; they could not keep the money, but had to forward it to the National Insurance Fund. The societies' own expenditure, such as the cost of treatment for their members, would be reimbursed by the Fund, on a six-monthly basis. The government did not reimburse any \"improper\" payments, such as \"treatments\" that did not comply with government regulations, or corrupt payments.\n\nMany Approved Societies were nominally profitable, contributing more to the National Insurance Fund than they took out. In 1925, and then 1931, further Acts were passed which reduced the government contribution to the Fund: the government pressured the backers of Approved Societies (the insurance companies, trade unions, and so on) to take on the financial burden themselves. Together with increasing government control on which treatments they were allowed to fund, this led many Societies to complain that they had become little more than branches of government, and membership attendance at society meetings dwindled away, becoming virtually non-existent by 1940. The National Insurance Act 1946 introduced a single national organisation in the healthcare field (the National Health Service) which, among other things, fulfilled the role of the Approved Societies; Approved Societies thus became redundant, and ceased to exist in 1948.\n\nThe National Insurance Act Part II provided for time-limited unemployment benefit for certain highly cyclical industries, especially the building trades, mechanical engineering, foundries, vehicle manufacturing, and sawmills. The scheme was based on actuarial principles, and it was planned that it would be funded by fixed payments from workers, employers, and taxpayers. It made no provision for dependants. Part II worked in a similar way to Part I. The worker gave 2d (i.e pre-decimal pence) per week while employed, the employer 2d, and the taxpayer 3d. After one week of unemployment, the worker would start to be eligible to receive 7 shillings (i.e. 84d) per week for up to 15 weeks in a year. The money would be collected from labour exchanges. By 1913, 2.3 million were insured under the scheme for unemployment benefit and almost 15 million insured for sickness benefit.\n\nA key assumption of the Act was an unemployment rate of 4.6%. At the time the Act was passed, unemployment was at 3% and the fund was expected to quickly build a surplus. Under the Act, employees' contributions to the scheme were to be compulsory and taken by the employer before the workers' salary was paid.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4452299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4452299", "title": "Necessity in English criminal law", "text": "Necessity in English criminal law\n\nIn English law, the defense of necessity recognizes that there may be situations of such overwhelming urgency that a person must be allowed to respond by breaking the law. There have been very few cases in which the defence of necessity has succeeded, and in general terms there are very few situations where such a defence could even be applicable. The defining feature of such a defense is that the situation is not caused by another person (which would fall under either duress or self-defence) and that the accused was in genuine risk of immediate harm or danger. \n\nFor the most part crimes that could be justified as necessary are minor in nature, such as driving over the speed limit to reach medical care, or damaging property to escape a fire. In almost all cases where a serious crime has taken place, necessity is unlikely to be a successful defence as courts have mostly taken the view that directly harming another person could not be justified even by extreme circumstances unless it directly prevented immediate serious harm or death. Even if a person were already likely to die, and their death would allow others to survive, killing them is not necessary until the point where harm is imminently likely to occur to the others and if that harm is not immediate, then necessity cannot apply. As such the circumstances where necessity could apply to a serious crime are extremely narrow, involving two or more people in an immediately life-threatening situation where only one could survive. Even in this situation, as the law does allow for a person not to take actions that would save another person if to do so would put their own life at risk, it is seldom strictly necessary for one person to kill another, one allowing the other to die in the course of the situation, then saving themselves. \n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service has historically chosen to exercise its discretion not to prosecute those cases where it believes potential defendants have acted reasonably in all the circumstances, and as such where necessity is a strong defense.\n\nThis defence was used in the early trial of \"Regina v. Dudley & Stephens\" (1884) 14 QBD 273 DC, where four shipwrecked sailors were cast adrift in a small boat without provisions. To save themselves, the three strongest decided to eat the fourth, the 17-year-old cabin boy. The court ruled that cannibalising the boy was not urgently necessary. Even though the cabin boy would almost certainly have died of natural causes, the sailors killed the boy intentionally and were guilty of murder. There was some degree of necessity arising from the threat of starvation but, at any moment, a ship could have sailed over the horizon to save them as, indeed, the three were rescued. Since they could never be sure that the killing was actually necessary from one minute to the next, the defence was denied. Cannibalism itself is not an offence so long as the death occurs naturally.\n\nDudley and Stephens were convicted of murder and sentenced to be hanged, however their sentence was later reduced to just six months in prison. The third man, Brooks, was not tried, as he had not participated in the murder. The principles from this case form the basis of the defence of necessity not being available for murder.\n\nThere must be an urgent and immediate threat to life which creates a situation in which the defendant reasonably believes that a proportionate response to that threat is to break the law. This reflects the distinction between the defenses of necessity and duress in that the former is pressure of circumstances arising naturally, whereas the latter is a threat from an entirely human agency that overpowers the will of the defendant. The general approach was laid down by Lord Denning in \"Southwark London Borough Council v Williams\" (1971) 2 AER 175 that necessity should be denied as a general defence because otherwise anarchy and disorder would follow. If hunger was allowed to become the basis of necessity, any poor person might seek to justify burglary to steal food by arguing that he or she had reasonably believed that this was a proportionate response to the threat of malnutrition. Thus, the fact that hunger does not arise spontaneously, and there are other ways in which to seek relief from poverty (e.g. work or by seeking welfare support or charity), would deny the defense of necessity. The Canadian courts put the issue succinctly. In Perka v The Queen (1984) 2 SCR 232, Dickson J. held at p250 that\nWhen considering necessity in \"R v Cole\" (1994) Crim. LR 582 Simon Brown LJ. held that the peril relied on to support the plea of necessity lacked imminence and the degree of directness and immediacy required of the link between the suggested peril and the offense charged. This defendant robbed two building societies in order to repay debts. The form of defense was \"duress by circumstance\" which attempts to extend the coverage of duress by borrowing the idea of an uncontrollable external circumstance forcing a choice by the defendant to break the law.\n\nIn \"Quayle and Others v R; Attorney General's Reference (No. 2 of 2004)\" (2005) EWCA Crim 1415 each defendant appealed convictions associated variously with the cultivation or possession of cannabis resin to be used for pain management. The choice facing the appellants was not severe pain without cannabis or absence of pain with cannabis, rather it was absence of pain with adverse side effects without cannabis, and absence of pain with minimal side effects with cannabis. The difference was restricted to the adverse side effects which, however unpleasant, could not sensibly be said to raise a \"prima facie\" possibility of serious injury, let alone one such as would overwhelm the will of the defendant. There was no evidence from an objective stand point that the appellants were acting reasonably and proportionately to a threat of injury. The evidence was clear that it was possible for the appellants to control pain by conventional and legal means. To admit the medical use of cannabis on the ground of necessity would defeat the legislative purpose underpinning the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971. Further, for the defence of necessity to succeed, the threat of injury must be immediate and imminent, and come from an extraneous source. The parties were responding to continuous pain over a period of time and, in any event, pain is too subjective to qualify as an external threat. There was nothing urgent that overwhelmed their will to resist. The parties then argued that the law breached Article 8 European Convention on Human Rights by interfering with the right of privacy. Interference with the right of respect for private life is permissible under Article 8(2) if \"in accordance with the law and . . .. necessary in a democratic society . . ... for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others\". Within the limits indicated in \"Taylor (Joseph) v Lancashire County Council\" (2005) EWCA Civ 284, the court's decision would involve an evaluation of the medical and scientific evidence, but their conclusion was that this was a policy matter more properly within the remit of the relevant Minister. Thus, this unlawful self-help did not qualify as necessity and did not fall within the protection of Article 8 ECHR.\n\nIn \"Altham\" (2006) EWCA Crim 7 the defendant used cannabis for pain relief following injury in a road accident. He was charged with possession under s5(2) Misuse of Drugs Act 1971. The judge at first instance refused to leave the defence of medical necessity to the jury so the defendant changed his plea to guilty. The Court of Appeal held that Article 3 ECHR not to subject a person to inhuman or degrading treatment does apply to the State. The defendant argued that using cannabis was the only way in which his symptoms could be alleviated and that he could not do so without committing a criminal offence. Thus, the State, by prosecuting him, subjected him to degrading treatment. The Court said that the State, by refusing cannabis, neither did nor refrained from doing anything that would subject the defendant to degrading treatment. The State had done nothing to change the defendant's condition for better or worse, and there was nothing to require the Court to read the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 as subject to a defence of medical necessity. The Court applied \"Quayle\" where the focus was on Article 8, and the defence of necessity was denied because it would be in conflict with the purpose and effect of the legislative scheme.\n\nIn \"\" (2000) 4 AER 961 Jodie and Mary were ischiopagus conjoined twins (i.e. joined at the pelvis) and the Court of Appeal had to decide whether it was lawful to perform surgery to separate them, when the separation would kill Mary. If the operation did not take place there was evidence that both would die within six months. The court proceeded on the basis that the potential charge would be murder in that, although the girls were physically joined, they were separate \"lives in being\". The court decided that the operation would be lawful. Ward LJ concluded that, by analogy with self-defence, it was lawful to kill Mary because she was, albeit lawfully, killing Jodie. Ward reasoned that causing Mary's death did not breach the public policy of \"sanctity of life\" because of the \"quasi self-defence\", but Brooke LJ, rejected self-defence because Mary was not unlawfully threatening Jodie's life. He concluded that necessity rather than duress of circumstances would apply because the doctor's will was not being overwhelmed by the threat. Instead, the doctors were making a rational choice to adopt the lesser of two evils, i.e. the death of one rather than the death of both twins. Ward LJ. reasoned that separation surgery was clearly in Jodie's best interests, but not in Mary's best interests, because it denied her \"inherent right to life.\" Given the conflict of the children's interests and the consequent conflict in the doctor's duties to each child, there was \"no other way of dealing with it than by choosing the lesser of the two evils and so finding the least detrimental alternative.\" Jodie could benefit from the surgery to enjoy probably a near normal life; refusal to allow separation would result in the death of both twins. So \"the least detrimental alternative\" was to allow separation. Necessity would not usually be allowed as a defence to murder, but Brooke LJ. distinguished Dudley & Stephens on the basis that the doctors were not selecting the victim unlike the cabin boy in \"Dudley\". The decision is restricted to cases of medical necessity and a conflict of duty owed both by doctors to different patients and by parents to their children, but does provide an interesting expansion of the law albeit, as Michalowski (2001) comments, it poses difficult questions as to who should take such decisions on behalf of patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "57808660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57808660", "title": "Public Prosecutor (Autonomous Communities of Spain)", "text": "Public Prosecutor (Autonomous Communities of Spain)\n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor was created in the Autonomous communities of Spain by Royal Decree 1754/2007 of December 28th (BOE of December 31, 2007).\n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Andalusia is more direct than the Prosecutor of the Superior Court of Justice of Andalusia, Ceuta and Melilla, which was guided by the chief prosecutor of the community. Andalusia includes the provinces of Almería, Cádiz, Córdoba, Granada, Huelva, Jaén, Málaga and Seville. \n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Andalusia is headed by the Superior Public Prosecutor of Andalusia, Ceuta and Melilla, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nIn the Cádiz Province, the Area Prosecutor's Office of Cádiz covers the judicial party of Ceuta. The Chief Prosecutor is subordinate to the Chief Prosecutor of the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Cádiz. \n\nIn the Málaga Province, the Area Prosecutor's Office of Melilla covers the judicial party of Melilla. The Chief Prosecutor is subordinate to the Chief Prosecutor of the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Málaga. \n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Aragón (also referred to as the Superior Public Prosecutor of Aragón) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Aragón (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community with its headquarters in the city of Zaragoza. Aragon includes the provinces of Huesca, Teruel and Zaragoza. \n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Aragón is headed by the Superior Public Prosecutor of Aragón, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Asturias (also referred to as the Superior Public Prosecutor of Asturias) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Asturias (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community with its headquarters in the city of Oviedo.\n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Asturias is headed by the Superior Public Prosecutor of Asturias, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Illes Balears (also referred to as the Superior Prosecutor's Office of Illes Balears) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Illes Balears (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community that is based in Palma de Mallorca.\n\nThe Prosecutor's Office of Illes Balears is headed by the superior prosecutor of Illes Balears who assumes the representation and leadership of the Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the State's Attorney General.\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Basque Country (also referred to as the Superior Public Prosecutor of Basque Country) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of the Basque Country (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community with its headquarters in the city of Bilbao. Basque Country includes the provinces of Álava, Biscay, and Gipuzkoa. \n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Basque Country is headed by the Superior Public Prosecutor of the Basque Country, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Canary Islands (also referred to as the Superior Public Prosecutor of the Canary Islands) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of the Canary Islands (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community with its headquarters in the city of Las Palmas. Canary Islands includes the provinces of Las Palmas and Santa Cruz de Tenerife. \n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Canary Islands is headed by the Superior Public Prosecutor of the Canary Islands, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Cantabria (also referred to as the Superior Public Prosecutor of Cantabria) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Cantabria (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community with its headquarters in the city of Santander.\n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Cantabria is headed by the Superior Public Prosecutor of Cantabria, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nThe Office of the Prosecutor of Castile and León (also referred to as the Superior Prosecutor's Office of Castile and León) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Castile and León (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community, and is based in Burgos. Castille and León includes tth provinces of Ávila, Burgos, León, Palencia, Salamanca, Segovia, Soria, Valladolid and Zamora.\n\nThe Office of the Prosecutor of Castile and León is headed by the superior prosecutor of Castile and León, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community, without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the State's Attorney General. \nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Castilla-La Mancha (also referred to as the Superior Public Prosecutor of Castilla-La Mancha) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Castilla-La Mancha (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community with its headquarters in the city of Albacete. Castilla-La Mancha includes the provinces of Albacete, Ciudad Real, Cuenca, Guadalajara and Toledo.\n\nThe Prosecutor's Office of Castilla-La Mancha is headed by the superior prosecutor of Castilla-La Mancha who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nSee List of Ministers of Justice of Catalonia\n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Community of Madrid (also referred to as the Office of the High Prosecutor of Madrid) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor in the Community of Madrid (Spain). It is the highest autonomous body of the Fiscal Ministry in the region that is based in Madrid.\n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Community of Madrid is headed by the superior public prosecutor of the Community of Madrid who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State. \nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Extremadura (also referred to as the Superior Prosecutor's Office of Extremadura) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Extremadura (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community that is based in Cáceres. Extremadura includes the provinces of Badajoz and Cáceres. \n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Extremadura is headed by the superior public prosecutor of the Extremadura who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State. \nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Galicia (also referred to as the Superior Prosecutor's Office of Galicia) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Galicia (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community that is based in La Coruña. Galicia includes the provinces of A Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra. \n\nThe Prosecutor's Office of Galicia is headed by the superior prosecutor of Galicia who assumes the representation and leadership of the Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the State's Attorney General.\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of La Rioja (also referred to as the Superior Prosecutor's Office of La Rioja) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of La Rioja (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community that is based in Logroño.\n\nThe Prosecutor's Office of La Rioja is headed by the superior prosecutor of La Rioja who assumes the representation and leadership of the Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the State's Attorney General.\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Murcia (also referred to as the Superior Public Prosecutor of Murcia) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community of Murcia (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the community with its headquarters in the city of Murcia.\n\nThe Office of the Public Prosecutor of Murcia is headed by the Superior Public Prosecutor of Murcia, who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the Attorney General of the State.\nThe Office of the Prosecutor of Navarre (also referred to as the Office of the High Prosecutor of Navarre) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor in the Navarre (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community that is based in Pamplona.\n\nThe Office of the Prosecutor of Navarre is directed by the superior prosecutor of the Navarre who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the State Attorney General.\nThe Office of the Prosecutor of the Valencian Community (also referred to as the Office of the High Prosecutor of the Valencian Community) is the judicial body that represents the Public Prosecutor in the Valencian Community (Spain). It is the highest body of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the autonomous community that is based in Valencia. Valencian Community includes the provinces of Alicante, Castellón and Valencia. \n\nThe Office of the Prosecutor of the Valencian Community is directed by the superior prosecutor of the Valencian Community who assumes the representation and leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout the territory of the autonomous community—without prejudice to the powers that correspond to the State Attorney General.\n\n"}
{"id": "28714150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28714150", "title": "Regulation S-X", "text": "Regulation S-X\n\nRegulation S-X is a prescribed regulation in the United States of America that lays out the specific form and content of financial reports, specifically the financial statements of public companies. It is cited as 17 C.F.R. Part 210; the name of the part is \"Form and Content of and Requirements for Financial Statements, Securities Act of 1933, Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, Investment Company Act of 1940, Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975\".\n\nRegulation S-X and the Financial Reporting Releases (Staff Accounting Bulletins) set forth the form and content of and requirements for financial statements required to be filed as a part of (a) registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 and (b) registration statements under section 12, annual or other reports under sections 13 and 15(d) and proxy and information statements under section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; except as otherwise specifically provided in the forms.\n\nRegulation S-X is seen less frequently but is equally valid for (c) registration statements, annual reports and shareholder reports filed under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and likewise for (d) the Investment Company Act of 1940.\n\nRegulation S-X extends the meaning of the term 'financial statements' to include all notes to the statements and all related schedules. Regulation S-X is closely related to Regulation S-K, which lays out reporting requirements for various SEC filings and registrations used by public companies. Regulation S-X profoundly affects internal and external accountants and auditors, and directors and officers and numerous officials, employees and contractors of publicly reporting companies, and because of the need for accurate reporting of monies and other data, any operation of a company may be affected to require ultimate compliance with Regulation S-X and the Sarbanes–Oxley Act.\n\nThere is no levity in Regulation S-X and it does not make for light reading; it is commonly viewed at Securities Lawyers Deskbook: Regulation S-X. There is more to read to be thoroughly familiar with Regulation S-X and the SEC Division of Corporation Finance provides an unofficial 329-page (as of April 2, 2009) tome - with no pictures - named the Financial Reporting Manual.\n\nAlso available from the SEC are:\nSelected Staff Accounting Bulletins and \nCompliance and Disclosure Interpretations.\nRegulation S-X generally implicitly discusses US GAAP. However, non-GAAP measures are sometimes used by companies to provide insight into its business. Non-GAAP financial measures are defined in Regulation G. Regulations G and Item 10e of Regulation S-K provide guidance on the use of non-GAAP measures. In May 2016 the SEC also issued additional Compliance & Disclosure Interpretations related to the rules and regulations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures.\n\nRegulation S-X was devised by the SEC staff with copious input from accounting-related entities. Major entities such as: \n\nBecause Regulation S-X is large and its impact on financial report is so pervasive, it is important to have a consistent terminology and to get it right from the beginning so that words and phrases have the same meaning throughout. Among other terms, certain basic terms are assigned meanings. For examples: Accountant's report, Amount, Certified, Control, Fiscal Year, Share, Wholly Owned Subsidiary, and so on.\n\nA specific meaning is also given for \"Summarized financial information\".\n\nA specific meaning is not given for the complex term \"Internal control over financial reporting\", but reference is made to Rule 13a-15(f). As the failure to have such controls or properly implement them or use/provide their disclosure may come with penalties and since this phrase pervades thinking and rule-making in the securities industry, it is worth viewing this definition, a definition that requires management to be pro-active:\n\nQualifications and Reports of Accountants (Rules 2-01 to 2-07)\n\nAfter laying out some basic and important definitions in Rule 1-02, Regulation S-X kicks off in Rule 2-01 (Qualifications of Accountants) by considering accountants and auditors and states who is acceptable to the SEC to act as such. Accountants and auditors must be properly registered in their own jurisdiction: \"The Commission will not recognize any person as a certified public accountant who is not duly registered and in good standing as such under the laws of the place of his residence or principal office.\"\n\nFurther, one issue that matters critically is independence of the auditor from the client company. Final Rule 33-8183, (https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/33-8183.htm, January 28, 2003) while discussing audit services, non-audit services and auditor/accountant independence, \n\nTo be extra clear about it, Sarbanes–Oxley lays out the nine impermissibles—that is the nine categories of prohibited non-audit services for auditors:\n\nHere is where the SEC places the \"corporate\" onus: \"The final rules recognize the critical role played by audit committees in the financial reporting process and the unique position of audit committees in assuring auditor independence \" ... because of \"the unique ability and responsibility of the audit committee to insulate the auditor from the pressures that may be exerted by management.\"\n\nThe result of Final Rule 33-8183 was to add Rule 2-07 to Regulation S-X and to amend Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X, as well as affect several other regulations, rules and forms.\n\nThese changes were triggered mainly by the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002, enacted on July 30, 2002. Title II of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, entitled \"Auditor Independence\" required the Commission to adopt, by January 26, 2003, final rules such as 33-8183.\n\nSection 201 of Sarbanes–Oxley require that non-audit services that are not prohibited under the Sarbanes–Oxley Act and the Commission's rules be subject to pre-approval by the registrant's audit committee. These rules specify the requirements for obtaining such pre-approval from the registrant's audit committee. Section 202 of Sarbanes–Oxley requires an audit committee to pre-approve allowable non-audit services and specifies certain exceptions to the requirement to obtain pre-approval. These rules specify the requirements of the registrant's audit committee for pre-approving non-audit services by the auditor of the registrant's financial statements.\n\nThus it can be seen that the audit committee membership is not a reward for good behavior or a sinecure but rather a weighty responsibility flowing from the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, various SEC regulations, rules and Final Rules, to also discharge the responsibilities of Regulations S-X and Regulation S-K.\n\nQualifications and Reports of Accountants\n\nAfter this initial section where the SEC lays out the requirements and limitations on interaction between company, management, audit committee, accountants and the auditor, Regulation S-X is then free to carry on and discuss the form and content of financial statements and financial reporting. Among other things Rule 210.2-06 (Retention of audit and review records) imposes a period of seven years after an accountant concludes an audit or review of an issuer's financial statements, during which the accountant shall retain records relevant to the audit or review, including work-papers and other documents that form the basis of the audit or review, and memoranda, correspondence, communications, other documents, and records (including electronic records).\n\nGeneral Instructions as to Financial Statements (Rules 3-01 to 3-20)\n\nAlthough referred to as \"General Instructions\" they are usually quite specific.\n\nAll financial statements shall be audited unless otherwise indicated.\n\nRules 3-01 to 3-20 specify the balance sheets and statements of income and cash flows to be included in disclosure documents when prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X.\n\nOther portions of Regulation S-X govern the examination, form and content of such financial statements, including the basis of consolidation and the schedules to be filed.\n\n\nRegistrants must file audited balance sheets as of the end of each of the two most recent fiscal years for the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries. Any interim balance sheet provided in accordance with the requirements of this section may be unaudited but shall be at least as current as the most recent balance sheet filed with the Commission on Form 10-Q. Where filings must be made yet year-end balance sheets are not yet available, provision is made for use of interim balance sheets, including time limits on large and accelerated filers.\n\n\nRegistrants must file audited statements of income and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent audited balance sheet for the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries and predecessors. In addition, for any interim period between the latest audited balance sheet and the date of the most recent interim balance sheet being filed, interim statements of income and cash flows shall be provided. Such interim financial statements may be unaudited.\n\n\nThe instructions note that any unaudited interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments which are necessary to a fair statement of the results; and a statement to that effect shall be included. Such adjustments shall include, for example, appropriate estimated provisions for bonus and profit sharing arrangements normally determined or settled at year-end. If all such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, a statement to that effect shall be made. Otherwise, there shall be furnished information describing in appropriate detail the nature and amount of any adjustments other than normal recurring adjustments.\n\nAlso, disclosures regarding segments required by generally accepted accounting principles shall be provided for each year for which an audited statement of income is provided.\n\nConsolidated and Combined Financial Statements (Rules 3A-01 to 3A-05)\n\nIt is not a law of nature that statements of related or subsidiary entities must be consolidated, however the presumption is that unless there is a good reason not to consolidate, consolidated statements should provide a better picture of overall operations and therefore should be provided.\n\nThe degree of ownership of one entity by its parent; foreign subsidiaries; differing fiscal reporting periods - are among the factors management must consider in deciding if or to what extent to consolidate income statements. Rule 3-04 requires that inter-company items and transactions in the consolidated financial statements being filed and unrealized inter-company profits and losses shall be eliminated.\n\nRules of General Application (Rules 4-01 to 4-10)\n\nThe Rule also includes \"The information required with respect to any statement shall be furnished as a minimum requirement to which shall be added such further material information as is necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.\" No limit is specified here as to the amount of further information that might be required.\n\nThe other Rules here are of little interest with the notable exceptions of Rule 4-08 General Notes to Financial Statements and Rule 4-10 Financial Accounting and Reporting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities. Rule 4-10 must be carefully followed only by oil and gas producers and those who search for raw petroleum sources, but Rule 4-08 is of universal applicability.\n\n\nFor example, #8 (Income Tax Expense) is only four modest paragraphs but must be complied with in the light of FAS 109 Summary- Accounting for Income Taxes, a 116-page document.\n\nCommercial and Industrial Companies (Rules 5-01 to 5-04) \n\n\"Commercial and Industrial Companies\" is a very general category comprising most trading or potentially tradable companies. Rule 5 applies to all entities except for those covered by Rule 6, Rule 6A, Rule 7 and Rule 9. Rule 5 'keeps everybody on the same page' by requiring the minimum acceptable disclosure for Balance Sheets and Income Statements.\n\n\nRegistered Investment Companies (Rules 6-01 to 6-10) \n\nInvestment companies, mainly mutual funds, with any interstate presence and above a certain size, must register with the SEC under The Investment Company Act of 1940.\n\nInvestment companies are considered to be an industry with special reporting requirements, outlined in Rules 6-01 to 6-10. See also other sections such as Article 12 which addresses the schedule of investments and additional schedules required of registered investment companies.\n\nEmployee Stock Purchase, Savings and Similar Plans (Rules 6A-01 to 6A-05) \n\nRule 6A-01—Application of Rule 6A-01 to Rule 6A-05\n\nRule 6A-02—Special Rules Applicable to Employee Stock Purchase, Savings and Similar Plans\n\nRule 6A-03—Statements of Financial Condition\n\nRule 6A-04—Statements of Income and Changes in Plan Equity\n\nRule 6A-05—What Schedules Are to Be Filed\n\nInsurance Companies (Rules 7-01 to 7-05) \n\nRule 7-01—Application of Rule 7-01 to Rule 7-05\n\nRule 7-02—General Requirement\n\nRule 7-03—Balance Sheets\n\nRule 7-04—Income Statements\n\nRule 7-05—What Schedules Are to Be Filed\n\nFinancial Statements of smaller reporting companies (Rules 8-01 to 8-08)\n\nRule 8-01—Preliminary Notes to Article 8\n\nRule 8-02—Annual Financial Statements\n\nRule 8-03—Interim Financial Statements\n\nRule 8-04—Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired or to be Acquired\n\nRule 8-05—Pro Forma Financial Information\n\nRule 8-06—Real Estate Operations Acquired or to be Acquired\n\nRule 8-07—Limited Partnerships\n\nRule 8-08—Age of Financial Statements\n\nBank Holding Companies (Rules 9-01 to 9-06) \n\nRule 9-01—Application of Rule 9-01 to Rule 9-07\n\nRule 9-02—General Requirement\n\nRule 9-03—Balance Sheets\n\nRule 9-04—Income Statements\n\nRule 9-05—Foreign Activities\n\nRule 9-06—Condensed Financial Information of Registrant\n\nRule 9-07 -- [Reserved]\n\nInterim Financial Statements (Rule 10-1)\n\nRule 10-01—Interim Financial Statements\n\nPro-Forma Financial Information (Rules 11-01 to 11-03)\n\nForm and Content of Schedules (Rules 12-01 to 12-09) \n\nGENERAL\n\nFOR MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT COMPANIES\n\nFOR FACE AMOUNT CERTIFICATE INVESTMENT COMPANIES\n\nFOR CERTAIN REAL ESTATE COMPANIES\n\nRegulation S-X was announced in Accounting Series Release no. 11 and first appeared in the Code of Federal Regulations in 1941. For copies of Regulation S-X as they appear in the Code from 1997 to the present see Code of Federal Regulations (Annual Edition). The SEC has also occasionally issued Regulation as a separate publication. See the Table below for these earlier versions of the Regulation.\n\nFinancial Reporting Releases: Financial Reporting Releases or FRRs are releases designed to communicate the SEC's positions on accounting principles and auditing practices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6527340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6527340", "title": "Retransmission consent", "text": "Retransmission consent\n\nRetransmission consent is a provision of the 1992 United States Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act that requires cable operators and other multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs) to obtain permission from broadcasters before carrying their programming.\n\nUnder the provision, a broadcast station (or its affiliated/parent broadcast network) can ask for monetary payment or other compensation, such as carriage of an additional channel. If the cable operator rejects the broadcaster's proposal, the station can prohibit the cable operator from retransmitting its signal.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulates this area of business and public policy pursuant to 47 U.S.C. Part II.\nRetransmission consent was adopted in response to the \"must carry\" rules that required cable operators to carry all significantly viewed local stations. Stations could either keep their must carry status, as many smaller, independent stations did, or negotiate with cable operators.\n\nInitially, cable carriers' reaction was to refuse to pay for broadcast programming. John Malone, head of cable giant TeleCommunications Inc. refused to pay to carry broadcasters’ content saying, “I don’t intend to pay any money...I will scratch backs.\" Instead of monetary payment, some broadcast networks agreed to distribute secondary channels. America's Talking (now MSNBC), FX, and ESPN2 all originated through retransmission consent deals in the early 1990s. Many PBS stations received additional local channels. \n\nLegislation governing the retransmission of broadcast television content by satellite companies is required to be renewed on a regular basis. As of 2018, the legislation has been enacted four times. These acts renewed statutory licenses that allow satellite TV companies to retransmit broadcast stations to their customers: 1999 - Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act2004 - Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act2010 - Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act2014 - STELA Reauthorization Act\n\nRetransmission consent has drawn criticism from the cable operators who redistribute programming, and therefore must seek consent from the broadcasters for their program content. Cable programmers have argued that there is a \"shift in leverage toward broadcasters\" within the market since introduction of retransmission compensation.\n\nBroadcasters typically claim that the programming they provide costs money, and these retransmission fees allow them to provide this expensive programming. Further, the Cable Act created retransmission consent in order to fix a market imbalance and the marketplace and contract disputes should be addressed in the marketplace.\n\nCable operators typically claim during a carriage dispute that the broadcasters are forcing the viewing public to pay for content that is essentially given away for free to those who use an antenna to receive the station.\n\nAlternatively, broadcasters have argued that the free market approach discourages carriage disputes. In a 2013 op-ed, former FCC commissioner, Robert McDowell, argued:TV stations make more money as more people see their shows, thus creating an incentive to distribute their product as widely as possible. These same market forces also create a disincentive for broadcasters to withhold their signals from distributors like cable and satellite companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "57517215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57517215", "title": "Revenue stamps of Hawaii", "text": "Revenue stamps of Hawaii\n\nRevenue stamps of Hawaii were first issued in late 1876 by the Kingdom of Hawaii to pay taxes according to the Stamp Duty Act of 1876, although embossed revenue stamps had been introduced decades earlier in around 1845. The stamps issued in 1876–79 were used for over three decades, remaining in use during the Provisional Government, the Republic and after Hawaii became a U.S. Territory. Some changes were made along the years: from rouletted to perforated, and some new values, colours, designs and overprints were added. Some postage stamps were briefly valid for fiscal use in 1886–88 to pay for a tax on opium imports, and a stamp in a new design was issued for customs duties in 1897. A liquor stamp was issued in 1905.\n\nRevenue stamps of the United States were introduced in Hawaii in 1900, but the islands continued to issue their own stamps for almost another two decades, until Stamp Duty was repealed in 1917 and the revenue stamps were withdrawn. Since then, the only stamps issued include a taxpaid stamp of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry in the 1930s, egg inspection stamps and conveyance tax meter stamps in the 1960s, and cigarette taxpaid labels which have been used since 2001.\n\nColorless, green or black embossed revenue stamps were first used by the Kingdom of Hawaii in around 1845, and various different types remained in use until the end of the 19th century.\n\nThe Ministry of Finance of the Kingdom of Hawaii issued its first set of revenue stamps on December 22, 1876, when new taxes on deeds, agreements, bills of landing and other documents were introduced following the Stamp Duty Act of 1876. The first stamps to be issued were 25c and 50c values, with a $1 value being added in about March 1877, and $5, $10 and $50 values about March 1879. The stamps had numeral designs, with the dollar values being written as dala. The name of the country was expressed as \"HAWAIIAN ISLANDS\", and the issue was rouletted. The stamps were printed by the American Bank Note Company in New York City and were probably designed by Registrar J. O. Carter.\n\nHawaii introduced a tax of $1 on the import of each half pound of opium in 1886. The $1 revenue of 1877 was initially used, but after stocks were running short the 1883 $1 postage stamp depicting Queen Emma was used to pay the tax. Pairs of the 50c stamp from the same issue (which depicted King Lunalilo) might have also been used for this purpose. A number of different cancellations are known on the $1 postage stamp denoting fiscal use: three different types with Maltese cross designs in black or purple, one with the initials \"J.M.K.\" (John M. Kapena, Collector General of Customs 1886–87) in purple and another with a handstamped script signature of Archibald Scott Cleghorn (Collector General of Customs 1887–93) in purple. Opium import was banned in 1888 and postage stamps were no longer used for this purpose.\n\nA tax on playing cards was approved by Queen Liliʻuokalani by an Act of August 4, 1892. A 25c banderole stamp was planned for this purpose, but it was never issued since the tax was repealed by President Sanford B. Dole on April 24, 1893.\n\nDays before the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii, on January 11, 1893, Queen Liliʻuokalani approved reducing the tax on stock certificates from 25c per $100 to 20c. The new rate became effective on April 1, 1893, at the time when Hawaii was ruled by the Provisional Government. New 20c stamps were ordered from the San Francisco printer H. S. Crocker and Company, but due to an error 25c stamps were printed instead, in a similar design as 1876 Stamp Duty issues but in a new color. The error was recognized immediately and a new order was placed for the required 20c stamps. Both the correct 20c stamps and the error 25c stamps were issued in Hawaii, and it is possible that the 25c stamps were sold for 20c. These stamps exist perforated or imperforate.\n\nDuring the Republic of Hawaii, the previous issues remained in use, with reprints being made of the $1 stamp of 1876. In 1897, a new $1 value was issued with a new design depicting Hawaii's first king, Kamehameha I. This stamp was inscribed \"REPUBLIC OF HAWAII INTERNAL REVENUE\", and it was issued to pay Customs duties. It was printed by the American Bank Note Company.\n\nBy April 1898, stocks of the 20c printed in 1893 began to run low, so old stocks of the 25c green of 1876 were overprinted with the required value and the text \"REPUBLIC OF HAWAII\" in gold. A number of errors such as double or inverted overprints are known.\n\nHawaii became a U.S. Territory in 1898 and the Territorial Government was established in 1900. Taxes by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service became applicable to the islands, and revenue stamps of the United States were introduced. However, the Territorial Government could still impose taxes on some documents, and Hawaii revenue stamps remained in use.\n\nThe first stamp issued by the Territory of Hawaii in 1900 was another 20c overprint on the old 25c from 1876. Unlike the 1898 issue, this was in black and only bore the new value. An error exists with the surcharge inverted.\n\nA $50 stamp was also issued in 1900 in the same design as the first issue but with the inscription reading \"TERRITORY OF HAWAII\". Like the original issue, this was printed by the American Bank Note Company and it was rouletted. An exempt stamp denoted \"NOT LIABLE TO DUTY\" was issued some time later, and this was perforated instead of rouletted. Little is known about this stamp, and its printer is unknown. It is recorded used from 1910 to 1917.\n\nA final set of revenue stamps was issued between 1909 and 1913. This had the same designs as the first issue, with identical inscriptions and colours, but were perforated instead of rouletted. It was printed by the American Bank Note Company. Four values were issued: the $5 and $10 in 1909, and the 50c and $1 in 1913. The $5 exists with the centre inverted, and this is Hawaii's rarest revenue.\n\nThe stamps were withdrawn when Stamp Duty was repealed in 1917. Remainders available at the time included the 25c of 1876, the $1 of 1897, and the four stamps issued in 1909–13.\n\nAn adhesive liquor seal was issued in 1905 by the Office of the Treasurer of the Territory of Hawaii. This was affixed to containers of liquor to be sold by fifth class licences, and it is extremely rare.\n\nThe Department of Agriculture and Forestry issued an undenominated, taxpaid stamp in the 1930s to pay for cultivation permits.\n\nA vertical coil tape for Egg Inspection was reportedly issued in 1964. Documentary meter stamps for conveyance tax were introduced in 1967.\n\nHeat transfer decal taxpaid labels have been used to pay cigarette taxes since 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "219243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219243", "title": "Right to keep and bear arms", "text": "Right to keep and bear arms\n\nThe right to keep and bear arms (often referred to as the right to bear arms) is the people's right to possess weapons (arms) for their own defense. Only few countries recognize people's right to keep and bear arms and protect it on statutory level, and even fewer protect the right on constitutional level.\n\nIn Old English, \"beran\" (past tense \"bær\") means to bear, bring, bring forth, or produce; to endure or sustain; or to wear.\n\nThe Bill of Rights 1689 allowed Protestant citizens of England to \"have Arms for their Defence suitable to their Conditions and as allowed by Law\" and restricted the ability of the English Crown to have a standing army or to interfere with Protestants' right to bear arms \"when Papists were both Armed and Imployed contrary to Law\" and established that Parliament, not the Crown, could regulate the right to bear arms.\n\nSir William Blackstone wrote in the 18th century that the right to have arms was auxiliary to the \"natural right of resistance and self-preservation\" subject to suitability and allowance by law. The term \"arms\" as used in the 1600s, the term refers to the process of equipping for war. It is commonly used as a synonym for weapon.\n\nInclusion of this right in a written constitution is uncommon. In 1875, 17 percent of constitutions included a right to bear arms. Since the early twentieth century, \"the proportion has been less than 9 percent and falling\". In their historical survey and comparative analysis of constitutions dating back to 1789, Tom Ginsburg and colleagues \"identified only 15 constitutions (in nine countries) that had ever included an explicit right to bear arms. Almost all of these constitutions have been in Latin America, and most were from the 19th century\".\n\nGenerally, where modern constitutions refer to arms at all, the purpose is \"to allow the government to regulate their use or to compel military service, not to provide a right to bear them\". Constitutions which historically guaranteed a right to bear arms are those of Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua and the United States of America. Nearly all of the Latin American examples were modelled on that of the United States. At present, out of the world’s nearly 200 constitutions, three still include a right to bear arms: Guatemala, Mexico, and the United States; of these three, only the last does not include explicit restrictive conditions.\n\nWhile protecting the right to keep arms, Guatemalan constitution specifies that this right extends only to \"weapons not prohibited by law\". \n"}
{"id": "28139692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28139692", "title": "Right to the city", "text": "Right to the city\n\nThe right to the city is an idea and a slogan that was first proposed by Henri Lefebvre in his 1968 book \"Le Droit à la ville\" and that has been reclaimed more recently by social movements, thinkers and several progressive local authorities alike as a call to action to reclaim the city as a co-created space—a place for life detached from the growing effects that commodification and capitalism has had over social interaction and the rise of spatial inequalities in worldwide cities throughout the last two centuries. In his first inception of the concept, Lefevbre paid specific emphasis on the effects that capitalism had over “the city”, whereas urban life was downgraded into a commodity, social interaction became increasingly uprooted and urban space and governance were turned into exclusive goods. In opposition to this trend, Lefevbre called to “\"rescue the citizen as main element and protagonist of the city that he himself had built\"” and to transform urban space into “\"a meeting point for building collective life\"”.\n\nDue to the inequalities produced by the rapid increase of world urban population in most regions of the world, the concept of the right to the city has been recalled on several occasions since the publication of Lefevbre’s book as a call to action by social movements and grassroots organizations. In their appeal for “their right to the city”, local mobilizations around the world usually refer to their struggle for social justice and a dignified access to urban life face to growing urban inequalities (especially in large metropolitan concepts). The right to the city has had a particular influence in Latin America and Europe, where social movements have particularly appealed to the concept in their actions and promoted local instruments for advancing its concrete understanding in terms of policy-making at the local and even national level. A good proof on how the notion of right to the city has gained international recognition in the last years could be seen in the United Nations Habitat III process, and how the New Urban Agenda (2016) recognized the concept as the vision of “cities for all”.\n\nThe growing popularity of the concept has nonetheless raised some criticism and concerns on how the original vision of Henri Lefevbre could be reduced to a “citizenship vision”, focused on the mere implementation of social and economic rights in the city leaving aside its transformatory nature and the concept of social conflict behind the original concept. Marcelo Lopes de Souza has for instance argued that as the right to the city has become \"\"fashionable these days\", \"the price of this has often been the trivialisation and corruption of Lefebvre's concept\"\" and called for fidelity to the original radical meaning of the idea.\n\nLefebvre summarizes the idea as a \"demand...[for] a transformed and renewed access to urban life\". David Harvey described it as follows:\nA number of popular movements, such as the shack dwellers' movement Abahlali baseMjondolo in South Africa, the Right to the City Alliance in the United States, Recht auf Stadt, a network of squatters, tenants and artists in Hamburg, and various movements in Asia and Latin America, have incorporated the idea of the right to the city into their struggles.\n\nIn Brazil the 2001 City Statute wrote the Right to the City into federal law.\n\nMore recently, scholars have proposed a 'Digital Right to the City', which involves thinking about the city as not just bricks and mortar, but also digital code and information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3469313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3469313", "title": "Security sector governance and reform", "text": "Security sector governance and reform\n\nThe concepts of security sector governance and reform (SSG/R, or SSG and SSR) generally refer to a process in Western-based international development and democratization to amend the security sector of a state towards good governance and its principles, such as freedom of information and the rule of law.\n\nThe objective of security sector reform (SSR) is to achieve good security sector governance (SSG)—where security actors are effective and accountable to their people. For example, SSR might guide decision-making on what form should the oversight of armed forces take or how transparent will intelligence agencies be according to legislation. Different nomenclature of the same overall framework include security system reform (SSR), security sector reconstruction (SSR) and justice and security sector reform (JSSR).\n\nIn 1994, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) adopted a Code of Conduct on Politico-Military Aspects of Security stating that the democratic control of the security sector as essential to stability. A framework for security sector reform (SSR) emerged in 1999 after international development actors observed from examples in South Africa, Indonesia and countries in Eastern Europe that national security and its components were considered crucial in a state recovering from conflict or an authoritarian regime. Reportedly, the increasing number of civil wars led development actors to look at the problem of insecurity from the perspective of good governance. The conclusion was that the security sector should adhere to the same rules of good governance as any other public service to curb conflict and violence.\n\nIn 2014, the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) adopted its first stand-alone resolution on SSR and within it the role of security sector reform in stabilizing post-conflict countries.\n\nThere is no single globally accepted definition of security sector reform (SSR), but it generally refers to a process to reform or rebuild a state's security sector towards good security sector governance (SSG). Good SSG is usually defined as a number of idealized principles and good practices of a healthy security sector servicing its people. Likewise, the objective of SSR is defined as the application of the same principles of good governance to the security sector as to any other public sector service delivery, such as public health or education. For example, the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has defined four standards that SSR should strive for:1. Establishment of effective governance, oversight and accountability in the security system; 2) improved delivery of security and justice services; 3) development of local leadership and ownership of the reform process; and 4) sustainability of justice and security service delivery.The target of SSR are the components of the state that uphold national security. Although the security sector is therefore a wide term open to interpretation, it is generally used to describe the structures, institutions and personnel responsible for the management, provision and oversight of security in a certain country. Therefore, the scope and target of SSR has usually been defined comprising the following four groups:\n\nTo observe and measure the quality of SSG as well as set more definite objectives, international development actors generally break down good security sector governance into different principless that are believed to showcase different subparts of a healthy security sector under democratic control. While exact configurations vary, some of the most common principles or objectives of good SSG that are commonly used include accountability, rule of law, and effectiveness.\nA multitude of different practical situations of good SSG exist according to development actors: For example, in a security sector lead by good governance, the use of force is defined by a legal framework. This subsequently requires, among others, that publicly transparent laws are in place; oversight and separation of powers mechanisms are established and working; and the state's legitimate use of force is regulated through strategies and policies. An operational level example would be improved and open interaction between the public and the security sector, including functioning freedom of information and complaint institutes.\n\nSSR is aimed at the existence of both national security and human security. However, the goals of providing national and human security can be conflictual in the context of conflict-torn societies which lack the framework of democratic governance. According to Florian Weigand, the experiences of SSR in Afghanistan, for example, have prompted a debate on the advantages of providing human rather than state security in the process of state-building.\n\nSSR is considered an instrument of international development aid; and attaining good SSG is seen by practitioners as a conflict prevention tool and as a post-conflict stabilizer. Examples of mechanisms that international actors reportedly use to perform security sector reform include disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) programmes to try and synchronize reforms to the security sector—and rule of law reforms as justice and security sectors are often considered intertwined. Likewise, SSR can be performed along transitional justice processes if the security sector has a legacy of violence against the population—and during security policy discussions to use SSR in supporting the implementation and reviews of the states' national security policy and strategy.\nSSR is not understood by researchers to be limited to a single political situation, but rather can be introduced in various contexts. The circumstances under which reform efforts are undertaken are often classified as three different reform environments: post-conflict, transitional and developed countries. Nevertheless, security sector reform is most commonly introduced in post-conflict settings after war has ceased. However, its insensitive application to such contexts has raised criticism. For example, Jane Chanaa has argued that there is a concept–context divide because conceptualisation overshadowed the understanding on how the idea adapts to the local situations whereas Safal Ghimire has noted that such a chasm exists also because the 'SSR' concept does not talk about reforms in the benefactors.\n\nArticles, papers and guidelines\n\n"}
{"id": "668326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=668326", "title": "Sole proprietorship", "text": "Sole proprietorship\n\nA sole proprietorship, also known as the sole trader, individual entrepreneurship or proprietorship, is a type of enterprise that is owned and run by one person and in which there is no legal distinction between the owner and the business entity. The owner is in direct control of all elements and is legally accountable for the finances of such business and this may include debts, loans, loss, etc. A sole trader does not necessarily work 'alone'—it is possible for the sole trader to employ other people.\n\nThe sole trader receives all profits (subject to taxation specific to the business) and has unlimited responsibility for all losses and debts. Every asset of the business is owned by the proprietor and all debts of the business are the proprietor's. It is a \"sole\" proprietorship in contrast with partnerships (which have at least two owners).\n\nA sole proprietor may use a trade name or business name other than their or its legal name. They may have to legally trademark their business name if it differs from their own legal name, the process varying depending upon country of residence.\n\nRegistration of a business name for a sole proprietor is generally uncomplicated unless it involves the selection of a name that is fictitious, or “assumed”. The business owner is required to register with the appropriate local authorities, who will determine that the name submitted is not duplicated by another business entity. Furthermore, the business owner must complete a form submitted to the governing authority to acquire title as a “DBA” or \"doing business as”. The authority in some US states is the Secretary of State.\n\nThe license for a sole proprietary business entitles the owner to hire employees and enlist the services of independent consultants. Although an employee or consultant may be requested by the owner to complete a specific project or participate in the company's decision-making process, their contribution to the project or decision is considered a \"recommendation\" under the law. Under the legal doctrine \"Respondeat superior\" (Latin: \"let the master answer\"), the legal liability for any business decision arising from such a contribution remains upon the owner and cannot be renounced or apportioned.\n\nThis is transposed by the unlimited liability attached to a sole proprietary business. The owner carries the financial responsibility for all debts and/or losses suffered by the business, to the extent of using personal or other assets, to discharge any outstanding liabilities. The owner is exclusively liable for all business activities conducted by the sole proprietorship and accordingly, entitled to full control and all earnings associated with it. The general aspect according to the general business law is that this type of business owner does not embody a “legal entity” Furthermore, any attempted and unreliable distinctions of the business do not change the classification under this title.\n\nIn Ireland, a sole trader who wishes to use a business name must register that name with the Companies Registration Office (CRO).\n\nIn Malaysia, there are three different laws governing the registration and administration of sole proprietors:-\nIn West Malaysia, the registration of sole proprietors come under the purview of the Companies Commission of Malaysia (\"Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia\", or abbreviated as \"SSM\"). In Sabah and Sarawak (with the exception of Kuching), the registration of businesses are done at the local authorities (e.g. municipal councils or district offices) while in Kuching, sole proprietors are registered with the Kuching Office of the Malaysian Inland Revenue Board.\n\nSole proprietors, which includes the self-employed, must register with the relevant authority within thirty (30) days from the commencement of their business. Sole proprietors may register their business using one of two names: (1) their legal name following the registrant's identity card or (2) a trade name. Registration of a business lasts either one or two years, and must be renewed thirty (30) days before its expiry. \n\nIn the event of termination of business, the proprietor has thirty (30) days from the termination date to file the notice with the relevant authority. If the termination is caused by the death of the proprietor, the administrators of the estate has four (4) months from the death date to file a notice of termination.\n\nSole proprietors must register with the Royal Malaysian Customs Department to charge and collect goods and services tax (GST) once their taxable turnover within a 12 month-period exceeds RM500,000.\n\nSimilar to other Common Law jurisdiction, proprietors may enter into contracts of employment and/or apprenticeship with their employees. Sole proprietors, as employers, are responsible to:-\n\nIn 2016, the SSM took legal action against 478 online businesses who fail to register their businesses whether as sole proprietors, partnerships, or private limited companies. As at May 12 2017, a total of 50,882 online businesses have registered with the SSM since 2015.\n\nA sole trader is the simplest type of business structure defined in UK law. It refers to an individual who owns their own business and retains all the profits from it. When starting up, sole traders must complete a straightforward registration with HM Revenue and Customs as self-employed for tax and National Insurance purposes. They are responsible for maintaining the businesses records and submitting an annual Tax return for all income from self-employment and other work.\n\nIn Britain, anyone who begins work for themselves is considered by the Government to be a self-employed sole trader, regardless of whether or not they have advised HM Revenue and Customs. A sole trader can keep all the profits of their business after tax has been paid. They must lodge a self-assessment tax return each year, and pay Income Tax as well as National Insurance. If revenue is expected to be more than £83,000 a year, they must also register for the Value Added Tax. A sole trader can employ staff, but is personally responsible for any losses the business makes.\n\nBecoming a sole trader is relatively simple compared to other business structures. It can rapidly enable a business to begin trading; the requirements for record keeping are far more straightforward than other business structures. Sole traders make all operational decisions and are solely responsible for raising business finance. They can invest their own capital into the business, or may be able to access business loans and/or overdrafts. Unlike limited companies or partnerships, it is not necessary to share decision making or the profits.\n\nThe simplicity of this structure also has its limitations. Unlike forming a limited company, it lacks the clear cut definition between personal and business income from the perspective of the tax authorities. The business owner is personally liable for income tax and National Insurance contributions due for the business profits in each given tax year. They are also personally liable for any debts the business incurs. Business analysts may advise sole traders to form a limited company in order to access greater levels of financing, for example for expansion plans. This can limit their personal liability; business lenders may be more inclined to co-operate with a limited company. It can also be the case that within certain industries it is easier to secure work if presenting potential business partners with a limited company structure.\n\nIn the United States there are no formalities that must be followed to start a sole proprietorship or commence business as a sole proprietor. However, depending upon the business activity of the sole proprietorship, sole proprietors may require licenses and permits in order to conduct business.\n\nAccording to the Small Business Administration (SBA) a sole proprietor and their business are considered as one and the same; therefore, the business is not subjected to separate taxation and regarded as the direct income of the owner. Income, losses and expenses may be listed on a Schedule C, which is then transferred to the personal tax return of the owner. It is the responsibility of the owner to ensure all due income taxes and self-employment contributions are paid.\n\nA permitted exception to the sole proprietor (single owner) stipulation is made by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) permitting the spouse of a sole proprietor to work for the business. They are not classified as partners in the enterprise, or an independent contractor, enabling the business to retain its sole proprietorship status and not be required to submit a partnership income tax return.\n\nThe setting-up process of a sole proprietorship to comply with local laws and regulations, is obtainable from the Small Business Development Center (SBDC), using their locator facility. A sole proprietor must be prepared to devote their time, utilizing business methods towards establishing a sound and appropriate foundation. Doing so may contribute to increased turnover, profits, minimize taxes, and avoid other potential adversities. \n\nSole owners are engaged in many varieties of industry and commerce and a comprehensive list of the primary categories, is found in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The selection of a business type by a new sole proprietor is in many instances, motivated by appropriate business experience in a particular field, especially those pertaining to enterprises involving the marketing and selling of defined products and services.\n\nA crucial component of a sole proprietorship within a business plan is the provision of an inherent guideline, for actions that require implementing for a business to achieve growth. The business name and products are critical aspects in the founding of a sole proprietorship and once selected, should be protected. In the event of a determined brand name being legalized, information regarding trademark protection is available from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.\n\nFor the sole proprietor there are a variety of options in obtaining financial support for their business, including loan facilities available from the U.S. Small Business Administration. The loans are not originated by the SBA, but the administration does guarantee loans made by various independent lending institutions. The primary loan facility for small businesses offered by this agency is the 7(a) loan program, designed for general applications. Sole proprietors are able to finance legitimate operating expenses; for example, working capital, furniture, leasehold improvements and building renovations.\n\nMany and varied private organizations and individuals seek opportunities to invest and fund a business that may not qualify for traditional financing from institutions, such as banks. For the sole proprietor, seeking to take advantage of this facility, there are various factors that must be understood and adhered to regarding the loan application.\n\nThe Small Business Administration (SBA) advises there are traditionally two forms of financing: debt and equity. For any small business owner seeking funding, they must consider the debt-to-equity ratio of their enterprise. This means the inter-action between the sum of dollars borrowed and the financial dollars invested in the business. The mathematics are simple; greater the finance invested by sole proprietors in their business; easier the obtaining of finance! The SBA statistics show that the majority of small enterprises favor the use of limited equity financing; for example, friends and relatives.\n\nAccording to the SBA, there are various private organizations prepared to fund sole proprietor business operations that do not qualify for traditional financing from banks. These private investors can provide loans, credit lines, leasing facilities for equipment, or other forms of capital, to sole proprietorship that have exhausted alternative financial resources. It is also possible for these owners to obtain financing by way of business partners or others, with cash to invest. Financial partners are frequently “silent” and although they do not participate in any business related decisions, they generally receive a percentage of the profits, generated by the business.\n\nTo assist sole proprietors, there are business grants available from the Federal Government or private organizations, providing certain criteria are met. To qualify for Federal grants, small businesses must comply with determined business size and income standards. For consideration regarding various grant opportunities, sole proprietors may apply for a grant in their capacity as an individual. Local governments and state economic development agencies, frequently make grants available, for businesses that stimulate their local economies.\n\nFor any sole proprietor applying for a loan, before starting the loan procedure, it is essential their personal and business credit history is in order and up-to-date. A personal credit report should be obtained from a credit bureau; for example, Trans-Union, Equifax or Experian. This action should be initiated by a business owner well before starting the borrowing process.\n\nThe Small Business Administration specifies that all credit reports received from any source should be carefully reviewed to ensure that all relevant personal information is correct. Other content in the report should also be examined particularly that related to the past credit obtained, from sources such as, credit cards, mortgages, student loans, as well as details pertaining to how the credit was repaid.\n\nAn exact translation of \"sole proprietorship\" is unusual, because the focus of the concept can change. An example is the Brazilian concept of \"sole business\" that was split into two main kinds of formal freelancer:\n\nGerman and Austrian tax laws also differentiate between sole professionals and other sole proprietors.\n\n"}
{"id": "8431707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8431707", "title": "Space jurisdiction", "text": "Space jurisdiction\n\nSpace jurisdiction, a field addressing what countries can enforce various laws in space, has become more important as the private sector enters the field of space tourism. Under the Outer Space Treaty of 1967, while space and celestial bodies cannot be appropriated by nations, objects launched into space and personnel on board them remain under the jurisdiction of the state of registry.\n\nThe majority of international treaties currently in existence address only specific aspects of space. No major treaties have been passed that have broad, sweeping jurisdiction in space, and it is largely unclear who would enforce such laws. The treaties currently in existence regarding space law include the following:\n\n\nThe Moon Treaty of 1979 was proposed after the Outer Space Treaty, but failed to be ratified by any major space-faring nation such as those capable of orbital spaceflight.. If it had been broadly accepted, the result would have been an international regime overseeing extraction of resources from celestial bodies.\nIssues of trade and crime in space have not been debated except with respect to the International Space Station. Agreements have involved all units in operation including Europe, the United States, Russia, Canada, and Japan. Three basic levels of agreement include:\n\n\nSpace marriage is a relatively unexplored but emerging attraction of space tourism industry in the private sector. As more private companies start to travel into space, the demand for such services as marriage in space may increase.\n\nOn August 10, 2003, Russian cosmonaut Yuri Malenchenko became the first human to marry in space. A provision in Texas marriage laws, that says one party does not have to be present so long as the couple presents an affidavit explaining why one of the two participants in the ceremony can't attend, allowed Malenchenko to marry his bride, Ekaterina Dmitriev, from the International Space Station.\n\nWith the failure of the Moon Treaty of 1979 (which would have established a principle of the common heritage of mankind for celestial bodies and required establishing an international regime to supervise use), there is no clear rule regarding the development or use of resources located in space, whether by states or private parties. The United States has asserted a right for U.S. citizens to own space resources they obtain, per the U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act (H.R. 2262) § 51303:\nCrimes committed in space, under current law, currently would seem to fall to the same mix of claims of jurisdiction by state of registry, nationality of the perpetrator, and nationality of the victim that govern crimes on the high seas or in Antarctica.\n\n"}
{"id": "14665874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14665874", "title": "Spider in the web doctrine", "text": "Spider in the web doctrine\n\nThe spider in the web doctrine is a legal doctrine in Dutch patent law governing cross-border injunctions in patent infringement cases. Under this doctrine, the Dutch courts would assume jurisdiction only in cases where the main defendant (the \"spider\") was located in the Netherlands and where the other defendants were part of a group of companies and acted based on a common business policy of this group (the \"web\"), regardless of the nation in which the disputed patent was issued.\n\nDecisions by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) have cast some doubt on the continuing validity of this doctrine. This is due in part to the fact that the ECJ did not feel that Dutch courts were competent to make predictions or judgments about the validity of patents granted outside the Netherlands, preferring to grant jurisdiction to the countries in which the patent was granted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "804191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=804191", "title": "Spin room", "text": "Spin room\n\nA spin room, also known as spin row or spin alley, is an area in which reporters can speak with debate participants and/or their representatives after a debate. The name refers to the fact that the participants will attempt to \"spin\" or influence the perception of the debate among the assembled reporters. The benefit for reporters is that they quickly get in-person interviews with debaters or their representatives, complete with audio, video and photos. For a U.S. presidential debate, the number of reporters in the spin room can number into the thousands.\n\nThe earliest known spin room was set up by the campaign of U.S. president Ronald Reagan in 1984. In a hotel banquet room, campaign officials spoke on the record with talking points playing up their own candidate's debate performance and minimizing opponent Walter Mondale's success, despite many observers believing Mondale had just won. This operation was dubbed the \"spin patrol.\"\n\nA spin room may also be active before a debate. A common form of pre-debate spin is for each side to try to raise expectations for the opposing debater and lower expectations for their own team, a pursuit known as playing the expectations game.\n\nSome observers have criticized the overt nature of the media manipulation in spin rooms, and the media's willing participation in it. Defenders have said reporters know it's scripted and aren't persuaded by the spin, but rather, they use the talking points to analyze candidates' strategies. Spin rooms can occasionally include moments of candor, such as when presidential candidate Rick Perry admitted that he had \"stepped in it\" during a debate response that became known as his .\n\nSpin rooms have also been portrayed as outdated in an era of instant online reaction from all quarters before a debate is even over. Focus groups and instant post-debate \"snap polls\" attempt to provide a more scientific method than spin rooms in determining who has won a debate.\n\n"}
{"id": "14785693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14785693", "title": "Texas Tech Administrative Law Journal", "text": "Texas Tech Administrative Law Journal\n\nThe Texas Tech Administrative Law Journal is a student-run law review discussing developments and issues in Texas administrative law. It was established in 2000 and is sponsored by the Administrative and Public Law Section of the State Bar of Texas. Its staff consists of second and third year law students from the Texas Tech University School of Law.\n\nThe journal compiles articles in two annual books. It may be accessed via Westlaw, LexisNexis, and HeinOnline.\n\nThe journal selects new members based upon their performance in a write-on competition that is open to first-year students and chooses twenty individuals.\n\nThe journal was founded in 2000 and is the law school's second-oldest journal. The journal will cease publication after the 2018-2019 school year.\n\n"}
{"id": "29813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29813", "title": "Tort", "text": "Tort\n\nA tort, in common law jurisdictions, is a civil wrong that causes a claimant to suffer loss or harm resulting in legal liability for the person who commits the tortious act. \n\nTort law, where the purpose of any action is to obtain a private civil remedy such as damages, may be compared to criminal law, which deals with criminal wrongs that are punishable by the state. Tort law may also be contrasted with contract law which also provides a civil remedy after breach of duty; but whereas the contractual obligation is one chosen by the parties, the obligation in both tort and crime is imposed by the state. In both contract and tort, successful claimants must show that they have suffered foreseeable loss or harm as a direct result of the breach of duty.\n\nThe person who commits the act is called a tortfeasor. Although crimes may be torts, the cause of legal action in civil torts is not necessarily the result of criminal action; the harm in civil torts may be due to negligence, which does not amount to criminal negligence. The victim of the harm can recover their loss as damages in a lawsuit. In order to prevail, the plaintiff in the lawsuit, commonly referred to as the injured party, must show that the actions or lack of action was the legally recognizable cause of the harm. The equivalent of tort in civil law jurisdictions is \"delict\".\n\nLegal injuries are not limited to physical injuries and may include emotional, economic, or reputational injuries as well as violations of privacy, property, or constitutional rights. Torts comprise such varied topics as automobile accidents, false imprisonment, defamation, product liability, copyright infringement, and environmental pollution (toxic torts). \n\nCompared to criminal cases, tort lawsuits have a lower burden of proof, namely \"preponderance of evidence\", rather than beyond a reasonable doubt. Sometimes a claimant may prevail in a tort case even if the defendant who allegedly caused harm were acquitted in an earlier criminal trial. For example, O. J. Simpson was acquitted in criminal court of murder but later found liable for the tort of wrongful death. \n\nBoth tort law and criminal law may impose liability where there is:\n\nRoman law contained provisions for torts in the form of delict, which later influenced the civil law jurisdictions in Continental Europe, but a distinctive body of law arose in the common law world traced to English tort law. The word 'tort' was first used in a legal context in the 1580s, although different words were used for similar concepts prior to this time.\n\nTorts and crimes at common law originate in the Germanic system of compensatory fines for wrongs (OE \"unriht\"), with no clear distinction between crimes and other wrongs. In Anglo-Saxon law, most wrongs required payment in money or in kind (\"bōt\", literally 'remedy') to the wronged person or their clan. \"Wīte\" (literally 'blame, fault') was paid to the king or holder of a court for disturbances of public order.\n\"Weregild\", which was a murder fine based on a victim's worth, was intended to prevent blood feuds. Some wrongs in later law codes were \"botleas\" 'without remedy' (e.g. theft, open murder, arson, treason against one's lord), that is, unable to be compensated, and those convicted of a \"botleas\" crime were at the king's mercy. Items or creatures which caused death were also destroyed as deodands. Assessing intention was a matter for the court, but Alfred the Great's Doom Book did distinguish unintentional injuries from intentional ones, whereas culpability depended on status, age, and gender.\n\nAfter the Norman Conquest, fines were paid only to courts or the king, and quickly became a revenue source. A wrong became known as a \"tort\" or \"trespass\", and there arose a division between civil pleas and pleas of the crown. The petty assizes (i.e. of novel disseisin, of mort d'ancestor, and of darrein presentment) were established in 1166 as a remedy for interference with possession of freehold land. The trespass action was an early civil plea in which damages were paid to the victim; if no payment was made, the defendant was imprisoned. The plea arose in local courts for slander, breach of contract, or interference with land, goods, or persons. Although the details of its exact origin are unclear, it became popular in royal courts so that in the 1250s the writ of trespass was created and made \"de cursu\" (available by right, not fee); however, it was restricted to interference with land and forcible breaches of the king's peace. It may have arisen either out of the \"appeal of felony\", or assize of novel disseisin, or replevin. Later, after the Statute of Westminster 1285, in the 1360s, the \"trespass on the case\" action arose for when the defendant did not direct force. As its scope increased, it became simply \"action on the case\". The English Judicature Act passed 1873 through 1875 abolished the separate actions of trespass and trespass on the case.\n\nIn 1401, the English case \"Beaulieu v Finglam\" imposed strict liability for the escape of fire; additionally, strict liability was imposed for the release of cattle. Negligently handling fire was of particular importance in these societies given capacity for destruction and relatively limited firefighting resources. Liability for common carrier, which arose around 1400, was also emphasized in the medieval period. Unintentional injuries were relatively infrequent in the medieval period. As transportation improved and carriages became popular in the 18th and 19th centuries, however, collisions and carelessness became more prominent in court records. In general, scholars of England such as William Blackstone took a hostile view to litigation, and rules against champerty and maintenance and vexatious litigation existed. The restriction on assignment of a cause of action is a related rule based on public policy.\n\nThe right of victims to receive redress was regarded by later English scholars as one of the rights of Englishmen. Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\", which was published in the late 18th century, contained a volume on \"private wrongs\" as torts and even used the word \"tort\" in a few places.\n\nUnited States tort law was influenced by English law and Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\", with several state constitutions specifically providing for redress for torts in addition to reception statutes which adopted English law. However, tort law was viewed as relatively undeveloped by the mid-19th century; the first American treatise on torts was published in the 1860s but the subject became particularly established when Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr wrote on the subject in the 1880s. Holmes' writings have been described as the \"first serious attempt in the common law world to give torts both a coherent structure and a distinctive substantive domain\", although Holmes' summary of the history of torts has been critically reviewed. The 1928 US case of Palsgraf v. Long Island Railroad Co. heavily influenced the British judges in the 1932 House of Lords case of Donoghue v Stevenson.\n\nThe law of torts for various jurisdictions has developed independently. In the case of the United States, a survey of trial lawyers pointed to several modern developments, including strict liability for products based on \"Greenman v. Yuba Power Products\", the limitation of various immunities (e.g. sovereign immunity, charitable immunity), comparative negligence, broader rules for admitting evidence, increased damages for emotional distress, and toxic torts and class action lawsuits. However, there has also been a reaction in terms of tort reform, which in some cases have been struck down as violating state constitutions, and federal preemption of state laws.\n\nModern torts are heavily affected by insurance and insurance law, as most cases are settled through claims adjustment rather than by trial, and are defended by insurance lawyers, with the insurance policy, a deep pocket limit, setting a ceiling on the possible payment.\n\nIn the international comparison of modern tort law, common law jurisdictions based upon English tort law have foundational differences from civil law jurisdiction, which may be based on the Roman concept of delict. Even among common law countries, however, significant differences exist. For example, in England legal fees of the winner are paid by the loser (the English rule versus the American rule of attorney fees). Common law systems include United States tort law, Australian tort law, Canadian tort law, Irish tort law, and Scots Law of Delict. The Jewish law of rabbinic damages is another example although tort in Israeli law is technically similar to English law as it was enacted by British Mandate of Palestine authorities in 1944 and took effect in 1947. There is more apparent split between the Commonwealth countries (principally England, Canada and Australia) and the United States, although Canada may be more influenced by the United States due to its proximity.\n\nThe United States has been perceived as particularly prone to filing tort lawsuits even relative to other common law countries, although this perception has been criticized and debated. As of 1987, class actions were relatively uncommon outside of the United States. As of 1987, English law was less generous to the plaintiff in the following ways: contingent fee arrangements were restricted, English judges tried more decisions and set damages rather than juries, wrongful death lawsuits were relatively restricted, punitive damages were relatively unavailable, the collateral source rule was restricted, and strict liability, such as for product liability, was relatively unavailable. England's welfare state, such as free healthcare through National Health Service, may limit lawsuits. On the other hand, as of 1987 England had no workers compensation system and lawsuits due to workplace injuries were relatively common and facilitated by trade unions, whereas in the United States the system of workers' compensation insurance prohibits lawsuits against the employer although lawsuits against third parties such as manufacturers does occur. The United States also has faced a rise in no-fault insurance for automobile liability in several states. In England, ombudsmen may also take cases which could alternatively become tort lawsuits.\n\nWhen comparing Australia and the United States, Australia's tort law is similarly state law; however, there is a federal common law for torts unlike the United States. The influence of the United States on Australia has been limited. The United States may have influenced Australia's development of strict liability for products indirectly through legislation affected by European Union, and in the 1990s class actions were introduced in Australia. Australia has universal healthcare and 'welfare state' systems which also limit lawsuits. In New Zealand, a no-fault accident compensation system has limited the development of personal injury torts.\n\nIn certain instances, different jurisdictions' law may apply to a tort, in which case rules have developed for which law to apply. This occurs particularly in the United States, where each of the 50 states may have different state laws, but also may occur in other countries with a federal system of states, or internationally.\n\nTorts may be categorized in several ways, with a particularly common division between negligent and intentional torts. Quasi-torts may be used to refer to torts which are similar to but somewhat different from typical torts. Particularly in the United States, \"collateral tort\" is used to refer to torts in labour law such as intentional infliction of emotional distress (\"outrage\"); or wrongful dismissal; these evolving causes of action are debated and overlap with contract law or other legal areas to some degree.\n\nThe standard action in tort is negligence. The tort of negligence provides a cause of action leading to damages, or to relief, in each case designed to protect legal rights, including those of personal safety, property, and, in some cases, intangible economic interests or noneconomic interests such as the tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress in the United States. Negligence actions include claims coming primarily from car accidents and personal injury accidents of many kinds, including clinical negligence, worker's negligence and so forth. Product liability cases, such as those involving warranties, may also be considered negligence actions or, particularly in the United States, may apply regardless of negligence or intention through strict liability.\n\nIntentional torts include, among others, certain torts arising from the occupation or use of land. The tort of nuisance, for example, involves strict liability for a neighbor who interferes with another's enjoyment of his real property. Trespass allows owners to sue for entrances by a person (or his structure, such as an overhanging building) on their land. Several intentional torts do not involve land. Examples include false imprisonment, the tort of unlawfully arresting or detaining someone, and defamation (in some jurisdictions split into libel and slander), where false information is broadcast and damages the plaintiff's reputation.\n\nIn some cases, the development of tort law has spurred lawmakers to create alternative solutions to disputes. For example, in some areas, workers' compensation laws arose as a legislative response to court rulings restricting the extent to which employees could sue their employers in respect of injuries sustained during employment. In other cases, legal commentary has led to the development of new causes of action outside the traditional common law torts. These are loosely grouped into quasi-torts or liability torts.\n\nNegligence is a tort which arises from the breach of the duty of care owed by one person to another from the perspective of a reasonable person. Although credited as appearing in the United States in \"Brown v. Kendall\", the later Scottish case of \"Donoghue v Stevenson\" [1932] AC 562, followed in England, brought England into line with the United States and established the 'tort of negligence' as opposed to negligence as a component in specific actions. In \"Donoghue\", Mrs. Donoghue drank from an opaque bottle containing a decomposed snail and claimed that it had made her ill. She could not sue Mr. Stevenson for damages for breach of contract and instead sued for negligence. The majority determined that the definition of negligence can be divided into four component parts that the plaintiff must prove to establish negligence. The elements in determining the liability for negligence are:\nIn certain cases, negligence can be assumed under the doctrine of \"res ipsa loquitur\" (Latin for \"the thing itself speaks\"); particularly in the United States, a related concept is \"negligence per se\".\n\nFor example, in the business realm, the auditor has a duty of care to the company they are auditing - that the documents created are a true and reliable representation of the company's financial position. However, as per Esanda Finance Corporation Ltd v. Peat Marwick Hungerfords, such auditors do NOT provide a duty of care to third parties who rely on their reports. An exception is where the auditor provides the third party with a privity letter, explicitly stating the third party can rely on the report for a specific purpose. In such cases, the privity letter establishes a duty of care.\n\nProximate cause means that you must be able to show that the harm was caused by the tort you are suing for. The defense may argue that there was a prior cause or a superseding intervening cause. A common situation where a prior cause becomes an issue is the personal injury car accident, where the person re-injures an old injury. For example, someone who has a bad back is injured in the back in a car accident. Years later he is still in pain. He must prove the pain is caused by the car accident, and not the natural progression of the previous problem with the back. A superseding intervening cause happens shortly after the injury. For example, if after the accident the doctor who works on you commits malpractice and injures you further, the defense can argue that it was not the accident, but the incompetent doctor who caused your injury. \n\nIntentional torts are any intentional acts that are reasonably foreseeable to cause harm to an individual, and that do so. Intentional torts have several subcategories:\nAn intentional tort requires an overt act, some form of intent, and causation. In most cases, transferred intent, which occurs when the defendant intends to injure an individual but actually ends up injuring another individual, will satisfy the intent requirement. Causation can be satisfied as long as the defendant was a substantial factor in causing the harm.\n\nA statutory tort is like any other, in that it imposes duties on private or public parties, however they are created by the legislature, not the courts. For example, the European Union's \"Product Liability Directive\" imposes strict liability for defective products that harm people; such strict liability is not uncommon although not necessarily statutory.\n\nAs another example, in England common law liability of a landowner to guests or trespassers was replaced by the Occupiers' Liability Act 1957; a similar situation occurred in the U.S. State of California in which a judicial common law rule established in \"Rowland v. Christian\" was amended through a 1985 statute. Statutory torts also spread across workplace health and safety laws and health and safety in food. In some cases federal or state statutes may preempt tort actions, which is particularly discussed in terms of the U.S. FDA Preemption; although actions in the United States for medical devices are preempted due to \"Riegel v. Medtronic, Inc.\" (2008), actions for medical drugs are not due to \"Wyeth v. Levine\" (2009).\n\n\"Nuisance\" is traditionally used to describe an activity which is harmful or annoying to others such as indecent conduct or a rubbish heap. Nuisances either affect private individuals (private nuisance) or the general public (public nuisance). The claimant can sue for most acts that interfere with their use and enjoyment of their land. In English law, whether activity was an illegal nuisance depended upon the area and whether the activity was \"for the benefit of the commonwealth\", with richer areas subject to a greater expectation of cleanliness and quiet. The case \"Jones v Powell\" (1629) provides an early example, in which a person's professional papers were damaged by the vapors of a neighboring brewery. Although the outcome of this case is unclear, Whitelocke of the Court of the King's Bench is recorded as saying that since the water supply in area was already contaminated, the nuisance was not actionable as it is \"better that they should be spoiled than that the commonwealth stand in need of good liquor\".\n\nIn \"Rylands v. Fletcher\" (1868), strict liability was established for a dangerous escape of some hazard, including water, fire, or animals as long as the cause was not remote. In Cambridge Water Co Ltd v Eastern Counties Leather plc (1994), chemicals from a factory seeped through a floor into the water table, contaminating East Anglia's water reservoirs.\n\nDefamation is tarnishing the reputation of someone; it has two varieties, \"slander\" and \"libel\". Slander is spoken defamation and libel is printed or broadcast defamation. The two otherwise share the same features: making a factual assertion for which evidence does not exist. Defamation does not affect or hinder the voicing of opinions, but does occupy the same fields as rights to free speech in the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, or Article 10 of the European Convention of Human Rights. Related to defamation in the U.S. are the actions for misappropriation of publicity, invasion of privacy, and disclosure. Abuse of process and malicious prosecution are often classified as dignitary torts as well.\n\nBusiness torts (i.e., economic torts) typically involve commercial transactions, and include tortious interference with trade or contract, fraud, injurious falsehood, and negligent misrepresentation. Negligent misrepresentation torts are distinct from contractual cases involving misrepresentation in that there is no privity of contract; these torts are likely to involve pure economic loss which has been less-commonly recoverable in tort. One criterion for determining whether economic loss is recoverable is the \"foreseeability\" doctrine. The economic loss rule is highly confusing and inconsistently applied and began in 1965 from a California case involving strict liability for product defects; in 1986, the U.S. Supreme Court adopted the doctrine in \"East River S.S. Corp. v. Transamerica Deleval, Inc\". In 2010, the supreme court of the U.S. state of Washington replaced the economic loss doctrine with an \"independent duty doctrine\".\n\nEconomic antitrust torts have been somewhat submerged by modern competition law. However, in the United States, private parties are permitted in certain circumstances to sue for anticompetitive practices, including under federal or state statutes or on the basis of common law tortious interference, which may be based upon the Restatement (Second) of Torts §766. Federal laws include the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890 followed by the Clayton Antitrust Act which restrict cartels and through Federal Trade Commission regulate mergers and acquisitions. In the European Union, articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union apply but allowing private actions to enforce antitrust laws is under discussion.\n\nNegligent misrepresentation as tort where no contractual privity exists was disallowed in England by \"Derry v Peek\" [1889]; however, this position was overturned in \"Hedley Byrne v Heller\" in 1964 so that such actions were allowed if a \"special relationship\" existed between the plaintiff and defendant. United States courts and scholars \"paid lip-service\" to \"Derry\"; however, scholars such as William Prosser argued that it was misinterpreted by English courts. The case of \"Ultramares Corporation v. Touche\" (1932) limited the liability of an auditor to known identified beneficiaries of the audit and this rule was widely applied in the United States until the 1960s. The Restatement (Second) of Torts expanded liability to \"foreseeable\" users rather than specifically identified \"foreseen\" users of the information, dramatically expanding liability and affecting professionals such as accountants, architects, attorneys, and surveyors. As of 1989, most U.S. jurisdictions follow either the \"Ultramares\" approach or the Restatement approach.\n\nThe tort of deceit for inducement into a contract is a tort in English law, but in practice has been replaced by actions under Misrepresentation Act 1967. In the United States, similar torts existed but have become superseded to some degree by contract law and the pure economic loss rule. Historically (and to some degree today), fraudulent (but not negligent) misrepresentation involving damages for economic loss may be awarded under the \"benefit-of-the-bargain\" rule (damages identical to expectation damages in contracts) which awards the plaintiff the difference between the value represented and the actual value. Beginning with \"Stiles v. White\" (1846) in Massachusetts, this rule spread across the country as a majority rule with the \"out-of-pocket damages\" rule as a minority rule. Although the damages under the \"benefit-of-the-bargain\" are described as compensatory, the plaintiff is left better off than before the transaction. Since the economic loss rule would eliminate these benefits if applied strictly, there is an exception to allow the misrepresentation tort if not related to a contract.\n\nIndirect liability may arise due to some involvement, notably through joint and several liability doctrines as well as forms of secondary liability. Liability may arise through enterprise liability. Other concepts include market share liability.\n\nIn certain cases, a person might be liable for their employee or child under the law of agency through the doctrine of respondeat superior. For example, if a shop employee spilled cleaning liquid on the supermarket floor and a victim fell and suffered injuries, the plaintiff might be able to sue either the employee or the employer. There is considerable academic debate about whether vicarious liability is justified on no better basis than the search for a solvent defendant, or whether it is well founded on the theory of efficient risk allocation.\n\nA successful defense absolves the defendant from full or partial liability for damages. Apart from proof that there was no breach of duty, there are three principal defenses to tortious liability.\n\nTypically, a victim cannot hold another liable if the victim has implicitly or explicitly consented to engage in a risky activity. This is frequently summarized by the maxim \"volenti non fit injuria\" (Latin: \"to a willing person, no injury is done\" or \"no injury is done to a person who consents\"). In many cases, those engaging in risky activities will be asked to sign a waiver releasing another party from liability.\n\nFor example, spectators to certain sports are assumed to accept a risk of injury, such as a hockey puck or baseball striking a member of the audience. Warnings by the defendant may also provide a defense depending upon the jurisdiction and circumstances. This issue arises, for example, in the duty of care that landowners have for guests or trespasses, known as occupiers' liability.\n\nIf the victim has contributed to causing their own harm through negligent or irresponsible actions, the damages may be reduced or eliminated entirely. The English case Butterfield v. Forrester (1809) established this defense. In England, this \"contributory negligence\" became a partial defense, but in the United States, any fault by the victim completely eliminated any damages. This meant that if the plaintiff was 1% at fault, the victim would lose the entire lawsuit. This was viewed as unnecessarily harsh and therefore amended to a comparative negligence system in many states; as of 2007 contributory negligence exists in only a few states such as North Carolina and Maryland.\n\nIn comparative negligence, the victim's damages are reduced according to the degree of fault. Comparative negligence has been criticized as allowing a plaintiff who is recklessly 95% negligent to recover 5% of the damages from the defendant. Economists have further criticized comparative negligence as not encouraging precaution under the calculus of negligence. In response, many states now have a 50% rule where the plaintiff recovers nothing if the plaintiff is more than 50% responsible.\n\nIf the claimant is involved in wrongdoing at the time the alleged negligence occurred, this may extinguish or reduce the defendant's liability. The legal maxim \"ex turpi causa non oritur actio\", Latin for \"no right of action arises from a despicable cause\". Thus, if a burglar is verbally challenged by the property owner and sustains injury when jumping from a second story window to escape apprehension, there is no cause of action against the property owner even though that injury would not have been sustained but for the property owner's intervention.\n\nHistorically, immunity has been granted to governments under sovereign immunity and to charitable organizations under charitable immunity, although these have eroded in the United States.\n\nVarious laws limit liability when giving aid to a person in need; liability can arise from a failure to help due to the duty to rescue.\n\nThe main remedy against tortious loss is compensation in damages or money. In a limited range of cases, tort law will tolerate self-help, such as reasonable force to expel a trespasser. This is a defense against the tort of battery. Further, in the case of a continuing tort, or even where harm is merely threatened, the courts will sometimes grant an injunction, such as in the English case \"Miller v Jackson\" (1977). This means a command, for something other than money by the court, such as restraining the continuance or threat of harm. Usually injunctions will not impose positive obligations on tortfeasors, but some Australian jurisdictions can make an order for specific performance to ensure that the defendant carries out their legal obligations, especially in relation to nuisance matters.\n\nScholars and lawyers have identified conflicting aims for the law of tort, to some extent reflected in the different types of damages awarded by the courts: compensatory, aggravated, and punitive. British scholar Glanville Williams notes four possible bases on which different torts rested: appeasement, justice, deterrence and compensation.\n\nFrom the late 1950s a group of legally oriented economists and economically oriented lawyers known as law and economics scholars emphasized incentives and deterrence, and identified the aim of tort as being the efficient distribution of risk. Ronald Coase, a principal proponent, argued in \"The Problem of Social Cost\" (1960) that the aim of tort law, when transaction costs are high, should be to reflect as closely as possible the allocation of risk and liability at which private parties arrive when transaction costs are low.\n\nSince the mid-to-late 20th century, calls for reform of tort law have come from various perspectives. Some calls for reform stress the difficulties encountered by potential claimants. For example, because not all people who have accidents can find solvent defendants from which to recover damages in the courts, P. S. Atiyah has called the situation a \"damages lottery\". Consequently, in New Zealand, the government in the 1960s established a no-fault system of state compensation for accidents. Similar proposals have been the subject of command papers in the UK and much academic debate.\n\nIn the U.S., reform has typically limited the scope of tort law and damages available, such as limiting joint and several liability, the collateral source rule, or capping noneconomic damages for emotional distress or punitive damages. These reform statutes are sometimes rejected as unconstitutional under the state constitutions by state supreme courts, with the Seventh Amendment to the United States Constitution possibly also relevant. Theoretical and policy considerations are central to fixing liability for pure economic loss and of public bodies.\n\nTort is sometimes viewed as the causes of action which are not defined in other areas such as contract or fiduciary law. However, tort and contract law are similar in that both involve a breach of duties, and in modern law these duties have blurred and it may not be clear whether an action \"sounds in tort or contract\"; if both apply and different standards apply for each (such as a statute of limitations), courts will determine which is the \"gravamen\" (the most applicable). Circumstances such as those involving professional negligence may involve both torts and contracts. The choice may affect time limits or damages, particularly given that damages are typically relatively limited in contract cases while in tort cases noneconomic damages such as pain and suffering may be awarded. Punitive damages are relatively uncommon in contractual cases versus tort cases. However, compensation for defective but not unsafe products is typically available only through contractual actions through the law of warranty.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, plaintiffs in professional negligence cases have some degree of choice in which law while in commercial transactions contract law applies; in unusual cases, intangible losses have been awarded in contract law cases.\n\nThe English case \"Hadley v. Baxendale\" (1854), which was adopted in the United States, split contract and tort damages by foreseeability of the damages when the contract was made. In the United States, the pure economic loss rule was adopted to further prevent negligence lawsuits in breach of contract cases. This \"economic loss rule\" was adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States \"East River Steamship Corp V Transamerica Delaval Inc.\" (1986) and expanded across the country in a non-uniform manner, leading to confusion. Among other examples, the tort of insurance bad faith arises out of a contractual relationship, and \"collateral torts\" such as wrongful dismissal involving possible overlap with labour law contracts.\n\nThere is some overlap between criminal law and tort. For example, in English law an assault is both a crime and a tort (a form of trespass to the person). A tort allows a person, usually the victim, to obtain a remedy that serves their own purposes (for example by the payment of damages to a person injured in a car accident, or the obtaining of injunctive relief to stop a person interfering with their business). Criminal actions on the other hand are pursued not to obtain remedies to assist a personalthough often criminal courts do have power to grant such remediesbut to remove their liberty on the state's behalf. This explains why incarceration is usually available as a penalty for serious crimes, but not usually for torts. In early common law, the distinction between crime and tort was not distinct.\n\nThe more severe penalties available in criminal law also means that it requires a higher burden of proof to be discharged than the related tort. For example, in the O. J. Simpson murder trial, the jury was not convinced beyond reasonable doubt that O. J. Simpson had committed the crime of murder; but in a later civil trial, the jury in that case decided that there was sufficient evidence to meet the standard of preponderance of the evidence required to prove the tort of wrongful death.\n\nMany jurisdictions, especially the US, retain punitive elements in tort damages, for example in anti-trust and consumer-related torts, making tort blur the line with criminal acts. Also there are situations where, particularly if the defendant ignores the orders of the court, a plaintiff can obtain a punitive remedy against the defendant, including imprisonment. Some torts may have a public elementfor example, public nuisanceand sometimes actions in tort will be brought by a public body. Also, while criminal law is primarily punitive, many jurisdictions have developed forms of monetary compensation or restitution which criminal courts can directly order the defendant to pay to the victim.\n\nGodfrey v. Demon Internet Limited (2000)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23698104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23698104", "title": "Tulane Law Review", "text": "Tulane Law Review\n\nThe Tulane Law Review, a publication of the Tulane University Law School, was founded in 1916, and is currently published six times annually. The Law Review has an international circulation and is one of few American law reviews carried by law libraries in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Law Review was started by Rufus Carrollton Harris, the school's twelfth dean. Charles E. Dunbar, Jr., the civil service reformer who became a Tulane law professor, served on the board of advisory editors of \"Tulane Law Review\" from its inception until his death in 1959.\n\nA 1937 \"Time\" magazine about Rufus Harris describes the Tulane Law Review as \"nationally famed.\"\n\nThe Law Review was most recently cited by the United States Supreme Court on April 27, 2010.\n\nMembership to the Tulane Law Review is conferred upon Tulane law students who have \"outstanding scholastic records or demonstrated ability in legal research and writing.\" Specifically, membership is chosen based on a student's law school grades and/or performance in an annual anonymous writing competition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2939738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2939738", "title": "United States Senate Committee on the Philippines", "text": "United States Senate Committee on the Philippines\n\nThe Committee on the Philippines was a standing committee of the United States Senate from 1899 to 1921. The committee was established by Senate resolution on December 15, 1899, to oversee administration of the Philippines, which Spain had ceded to the United States as part of the settlement of the Spanish–American War. The committee was established by Senate resolution on December 15, 1899, even though the treaty of December 10, 1899, had not yet been ratified.\n\nIn 1921, the Committee was terminated and jurisdiction over legislative matters concerning the Philippines was transferred to the newly created Committee on Territories and Insular Possessions.\n\nAt the time of the creation of the committee, the Philippines were in a state of civil turmoil that greatly concerned the Senate, where a debate raged between those who wished to extend U.S. sovereignty over the Filipinos and the anti-imperialists. Like the Committee on the Pacific Islands and Puerto Rico, the Committee on the Philippines focused on primarily on legal and economic matters, such as Philippine independence, administration of the islands by the U.S. Philippine Commission, and trade issues. Matters relating to the suppression of the Philippine insurrection were often referred to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.\n\n\nHenry Cabot Lodge, Republican of Massachusetts, was the committee's first chairman, serving until 1911. During this time, the committee was informally known as the \"Lodge Committee.\" In 1902, under Chairman Lodge, the committee carried out an investigation into allegations of war crimes in the Philippine–American War. The hearings commenced on January 31, 1902 and adjourned on June 28, 1902. They were closed to the public, except for three press associations. The final report came to 3,000 pages.\n\nA remark to a \"Manila News\" reporter by newly promoted Brigadier General Jacob H. Smith on November 4, 1901, triggered the hearings, which eventually led to Smith's own court-martial and conviction. Smith said that he intended to set the entire island of Samar ablaze, and would probably wipe out most of the population.\n\nSenator George Frisbie Hoar had been demanding an investigation after increasing evidence of U.S. military war crimes in the Philippine–American War. Hoar introduced a resolution to establish a select committee to conduct the investigation on January 13, 1902. However, Chairman Lodge argued that the hearings would be better conducted by the existing Committee on the Philippines. Anti-imperialists in the Senate feared a whitewash, because Lodge had been avoiding investigating mounting allegations of war crimes so much so that the U.S. Senate Committee on the Philippines had been inactive for several months.\n\nDuring the time of the committee investigation, the minority on the committee consisted of Democratic and Republican anti-imperialists, led by Senator Hoar, while the majority was dominated by imperialists, led by Chairman Lodge. Hearings often degenerated into shouting matches between the imperialists and anti-imperialists. Nothing came of the hearings.\n\nEugene Hale was the only other Republican to vote with Hoar against the Treaty of Paris\n\nGovernor William Howard Taft had arrived in the Philippines in June 1900 with the Taft Commission to set up a civilian government. Taft was the first to testify in the Lodge Committee. As a lawyer, Taft would be assumed to have been a safe witness, but he conceded under questioning that \"the torturing of natives by so-called water-cure and other methods\" had been used \"on some occasions to extract information\"...\"There are some amusing instances of Filipinos who came in and said they would not say anything unless tortured; that they must have an excuse for what they proposed to say.\" As Miller writes, \"Very few died from the water cure, a mild form of torture.\"\n\nTaft was immediately followed by three pro-imperialist witnesses. General Robert P. Hughes, chief of staff to General Elwell S. Otis, testified for two weeks in March 1902. In his testimony, Hughes conceded that Filipino houses were burned indiscriminately as a strategy to eliminate shelters and hiding places for guerrillas and as a deterrent. During questioning, Senator Charles Dietrich followed up by asking Hughes to estimate the value of these houses. Hughes said they only took a few days to build, and cost between $1.50 and $4.00. Senator Joseph Rawlins continued the questioning:\n\"Rawlins:\" If these shacks were of no consequence what was the utility of their destruction?<br>\n\"Hughes:\" The destruction was a punishment. They permitted these people to come in there and conceal themselves and they gave no sign. It is always--<br>\n\"Rawlins:\" The punishment in that case would fall, not upon the men, who could go elsewhere, but mainly upon the women and little children.<br>\n\"Hughes:\" The women and children are part of the family, and where you wish to inflict a punishment you can punish the man probably worse in that way than in any other.<br>\n\"Rawlins:\" But is that within the ordinary rules of civilized warfare? Of course you could exterminate the family which would be still worse punishment.<br>\n\"Hughes:\" These people are not civilized.<br>\n\"Rawlins:\" But is that within the ordinary rules of civilized warfare?<br>\n\"Hughes:\" No; I think it is not.<br>\n\"Dietrich:\" In order to carry on civilized warfare both sides have to engage in such warfare.<br>\n\"Hughes:\" Yes sir; certainly that is the point, I think that if I am allowed to go on I will come to a place where I shall have something to say that will bear directly on the subject.<br>\nSenator Hale commented that the war had become less and less civilized with each successive commander, to which Hughes agreed saying \"from summer to summer, the conduct of the war was sterner, stiffer, as you call it.\"\nDavid Prescott Barrows, school director in the Philippines testified, claiming that anti-imperialist factions in the press had grossly distorted the situation. For example, concentration camps and the water cure were explained in the press as \"more terrible than they are.\" He claimed Filipinos in the camps were \"there of their own volition\", for they \"are pleased with it, because they are permitted to lead an easier life--much easier than at home.\" He went on to claim that alleged torture via the water cure \"injured no one.\" While stating his belief that the natives had benefited from the war, Barrows stated he did not \"wish to assent to the proposition that war is a good thing...but where you have a war existing, it is, I think, better to go ahead and pursue it rigorously and finish it.\"\nA fourth witness, General Elwell Stephen Otis testified the week of March 20, claiming here had been no warfare in the Philippines for the past two years. Senator Hale questions that statement, saying \"there have been a good many fights since.\" Otis alleged any such fighting was due to \"robbers\", and that he and his men \"were laughed at by the Spaniards and European officers for the humanity that we exercised.\" The committee proceeded to take a two-week break before continuing with hearings.\n\nMajor Cornelius Gardener, a West Point graduate serving as provincial governor of Tayabas, the province next to Batangas, submitted a report to the committee, which Chairman Lodge laid before the committee on April 10, 1902.\n\nOf late by reason of the conduct of the troops, such as the extensive burning of the barrios in trying to lay waste the country so that the insurgents cannot occupy it, the torturing of natives by so-called water cure and other methods, in order to obtain information, the harsh treatment of natives generally, and the failure of inexperienced, lately appointed Lieutenants commanding posts, to distinguish between those who are friendly and those unfriendly and to treat every native as if he were, whether or no, an insurrecto at heart, this favorable sentiment above referred to is being fast destroyed and a deep hatred toward us engendered.\n\nThe course now being pursued in this province and in the Provinces of Batangas, Laguna, and Samar is in my opinion sowing the seeds for a perpetual revolution against us hereafter whenever a good opportunity offers. Under present conditions the political situation in this province is slowly retrograding, and the American sentiment is decreasing and we are daily making permanent enemies.\n\nThe Committee on the Philippines refused to subpoena Major Cornelius Gardener in a May 1, party-line vote. Committee members Senator Thomas Patterson decried this move in a speech on the Senate floor. Senator Benjamin Tillman, a Democrat from South Carolina, similarly objected to this move, claiming information was being \"smothered.\"\n\nDemocrats on the committee pressed Lodge to call as witnesses Emilio Aguinaldo, the Filipino general and independence leader, and several others they thought necessary for the committee to hear. In addition to Mr. Auguinaldo, Mr. Rawlings proposed calling Apolinario Mabini, one of Aguinaldo's principal advisors; Sixto Lopez, an advocate for Philippine independence; Judge Pío del Pilar, General Torres, Howard W. Bray, an Englishman, who has spent many years in the Philippines, Robert M. Collins, and Harold Martin, both Associated Press correspondents. The committee refused this request as well as one that would have sent a subcommittee to the Philippines to collect testimony.\n\nInstead, Mr. Lodge subpoenaed several veterans from a so-called \"safe list\" supplied by Secretary of War Elihu Root. However, when the soldiers appeared, they began to lecture the committee on the necessity of shooting and burning all Filipinos because of their \"inability to appreciate human kindness.\"\n\nSergeant L. E. Hallock, Private William J. Gibbs, George C. Boardman, Captain Lee Hall, Richard Thomas O'Brien all testified to what they had seen during their service in the Philippines, including torture of Filipino prisoners, including use of the water cure, murder of natives, and other harassment.\n\nChairman Lodge countered with details of the murder of Private O'Herne. The witness said that in June 1900, O'Herne, with two other members of the company, had been sent to Iloilo for mail, and that on their return, on June 30, they were ambushed by 100 natives, and O'Herne's companions captured. O'Herne had made a dash to get away, and after escaping from the attacking party, had fallen in with other natives supposed to be friendly, but that instead of proving to be so they had devoted the entire next day to his torture and death, beginning at daylight by cutting him with bolos and then roasting him all day by a slow fire, not finishing up until night. All these details had, the witness said, been gathered from the confessions of the men to whom they had given the cure. Sergeant Hallock described the torture of around a dozen natives at the town of Leon, Panay. He said they were captured and tortured in order to secure information of the murder of Private O'Herne.\n\nCorporal Richard O'Brien, testified he had been present at Igbaras when the water cure was administered to the Presidente (or chief) of that town. \"There was a Spanish woman in town--a woman of education--who was attacked by the American officers.\" The witness said he could not give the names of the officers, adding that he had not witnessed the incident, but that the woman's husband was his authority for the statement.\" O'Brien further testified that there was an \"unwritten law out there to take no prisoners.\" He said \"dum dum\" bullets, or expanding bullets, were issued in the regular way with other ammunition. He had seen them strike a man and take the top of this head off.\n\nGeneral MacArthur testified before the committee twice. On April 13, he initially discussed the short war with the Spaniards and the American cooperation with the Filipinos. Then later that month, he testified again, regarding the capture of Emilio Aguinaldo. The General testified he had used deception to capture Mr. Aguinaldo, saying \"I am responsible in that matter in every way and particular. It was one of the deceptions frequently practiced in war, and whatever deception attached thereto, I take.\" He attributed the plan to Gen. Funston, but said he (MacArthur) was responsible for approving the plant. However, he insisted doing so did not violate the rules of civilized warfare. MacArthur also distanced himself from any alleged orders of General Jacob H. Smith to turn Samar a howling wilderness.\n\nMacArthur said that absolute chaos would result should the Filipinos be given complete independence and the United States entirely withdraw from the islands. Aguinaldo also had told him it would be impossible at this stage of their evolution for his own people to establish a stable independent Government. He said Aguinaldo was at the time of the conversation a \"qualified prisoner\", but that there was no coercion or duress resorted to extract the statement.\n\nIn regards to the death toll in the Philippines, he said, \"The destruction is simply incident to war, and of course embraces a very small percentage of the total population, which is dense.\" In response, Senator Patterson noted that the death toll in one province was nearly a third. Gen. MacArthur spoke of the capture of papers from high Filipino officials in which the information was contained that, if President McKinley should be re-elected, the insurgents would surrender to the authority of the United States.\n\nColonel Arthur L. Wagner, the Army's chief public relations officer, had spent two and a half years in the Philippines. Wagner testified in May, where he was questioned about concentration camps in the Philippines, 31 including deaths at the camps. In one camp, it was reported that the people were assembled according to villages, so that the people in all cases would have their old neighbors near them. So far as he had been able to observe, there was no evidence of want among the people there congregated. Moreover, they were surprisingly contented. Such camps, he insisted, were created to \"protect friendly natives from the insurgents\" and to \"assure them an adequate food supply\", while also teaching them \"proper sanitary standards.\" People were limited to travel within 300 to 800 yards of the camp, beyond which was a so-called \"dead line\" that anyone caught crossing would be shot, though he claimed the standing order was not to shoot any helpless persons, or any others if the shooting could be avoided.\n\nColonel Wagner said that one of the principal purposes of concentrating the native people in the Philippines was to protect them against the Ladrones, which had been admirably accomplished. Another object of the camps had been that of facilitating the collection of the rice supplies in order to starve out the Ladrones and guerrillas. The result had been that hostile parties had practically disappeared and their leader, Malvar, had been captured. The policy had been necessary to \"protect life and property, and he did not see how any other policy could have been successful. He said that the people were fed and given medical supplies, and the sanitation of the camps was looked after. He insisted that American camps in the Philippines no more could be compared to Valeriano Weyler's reconcentrado camps in Cuba than mercy could be compared to cruelty.\n\nOver loud Republican protests, Senator Culberson began to read a letter from one of J. Franklin Bell's officers, which had been quoted in the Senate by Mr. Bacon, in which the officer described a concentration camp as a \"suburb of hell.\" The chair ruled that unless the senator identified the author, who had asked to remain anonymous, it was \"hearsay evidence\" and directed the witness not to comment on it. But Culberson had already read part of the letter:\n\nWhat a farce it all is . . . this little spot of black sogginess is a reconcentrado pen, with a dead line outside, beyond which everything living is shot...Upon arrival, I found 30 cases of smallpox, and average fresh ones of five a day, which practically have to be turned out to die. At nightfall crowds of huge vampire bats softly swirl out of their orgies over the dead. Mosquitos work in relays. This corpse-carcass stench wafts in and combined with some lovely municipal odors besides makes it slightly unpleasant here.\n\nCol. Wagner said he had no personal knowledge of the tortures of the natives in the Philippines, but he gave several instances in which he had heard reports of torture. In most of these it was found on examination that the reports either were untrue or exaggerated.\n\nWagner said that he knew that one village had been burned because the citizens would not give information of the murderers of a native friendly to the United States.\n\nAfter intense cross examination, Wagner agreed that some \"innocents\" had suffered in the Philippines, but he added that the same was true of every war and that it was an injustice as old as man. \"The Almighty destroyed Sodom, notwithstanding the fact there were a few just people in that community.\" Senator Albert Beveridge replied, \"I was thinking of that instance of Sodom and Gomorrah.\"\n\nSenator Albert Beveridge published a separate senate document containing his views on the committee, published as Senate Document 422 in the 57th Congress, 1st session. Historian Miller criticized this secondary publication, calling it a \"deceitful cut and paste job . . . gleaning from the record anything that remotely supported his conclusion that the war was one of the most humane ones in history . . . [Beveridge felt that] the Lodge committee had destroyed the malicious fiction of \"the slanders of the Army\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47631012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47631012", "title": "Vo v France", "text": "Vo v France\n\nVo v France is a 2004 court case heard by the European Court of Human Rights that is notable for raising the question of whether or not an unborn child is considered to have a right to life under Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe case was brought by Mrs Vo, a French woman with Vietnamese heritage. During her pregnancy, Vo received substandard medical care—due in part to a mixup with another woman with a similar name, and Vo's lack of ability to speak French. This confusion led to her doctors attempting to remove a non-existent coil from her uterus, but in the process damaging her foetus. This led to her needing emergency hospital admission and the death of the foetus, which was between 20 and 21 weeks old at the time.\n\nMrs Vo attempted to have the doctor prosecuted for unintentionally killing her unborn child. On 3 June 1996, the French criminal court found the doctor innocent as the foetus was not considered viable, and thus was not a \"human person\" under the French Criminal Code (then Article 319, now Articles 221—226).\n\nThe Lyons Court of Appeal reversed the decision made by the court of first instance on 3 March 1997. This appellate decision was reversed again by the Court of Cassation on 30 June 1999.\n\nMrs Vo brought the case to the European Court of Human Rights, charging that the French government's failure to provide criminal penalties for accidentally destroying a foetus was incompatible with the state's duty to protect the right to life of the unborn child under Article 2. The case was heard by the Grand Chamber of the Strasbourg court.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights broke the issue into two components:\n\n\nThe court decided that the first of these questions can be sidestepped by means of the second question. The French government had not breached their duties under the Convention by not applying criminal penalties to the unintentional destruction of a foetus. The court then decided that the first question could thus be ignored, noting that the Convention and its subsequent jurisprudence had not \"ruled out the possibility that in certain circumstances safeguards may be extended to the unborn child\".\n"}
{"id": "33849881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33849881", "title": "Voting in Guam", "text": "Voting in Guam\n\nVoting rights of citizens in Guam differ from those of United States citizens in each of the fifty states. In the U.S. House of Representatives, Guam is entitled to a delegate, who is not allowed to vote on the floor of the House, but can vote on procedural matters and in House committees. Citizens of Guam may not vote in general elections for President.\n\nThe United States Constitution grants congressional voting representation to the states, of which Guam is not one. Guam is a federal territory ultimately under the complete authority of Congress. The lack of voting representation in Congress for residents of Guam has been an issue since the foundation of the federal district.\n\nThe Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) is a United States federal law dealing with elections and voting rights for United States citizens residing overseas. The act requires that all U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the U.S. Virgin Islands allow certain U.S. citizens to register to vote and to vote by absentee ballot in federal elections. The act is Public Law 99-410 and was signed into law by President Ronald Reagan on August 28, 1986.\n\nGuam is an unincorporated United States territory. The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 expanded the definition of the \"United States\" for nationality purposes to include Guam, therefore those born on Guam are \"U.S. [citizens] at birth on the same terms as persons born in other parts of the United States.\" If a U.S. citizen born on Guam were to move to the mainland, they would be able to participate in all elections any other U.S. citizen can participate in.\n\nOn August 1, 1950, President Truman signed into law the Guam Organic Act of 1950, which gave the Chamorro people certain rights and protections under the U.S. Constitution. The people of Guam were afforded the opportunity to set and administer policy and laws for the island of Guam.\nIn the 1980s and early 1990s, there was a significant movement in favor of the territory becoming a commonwealth, which would give it a level of self-government similar to Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands. However, the federal government rejected the version of a commonwealth that the government of Guam proposed, due to it having clauses incompatible with the Territorial Clause (Art. IV, Sec. 3, cl. 2) of the U.S. Constitution. Other movements are also in existence that advocate becoming a U.S. state, union with the state of Hawaii, union with the Northern Mariana Islands as a single territory, or independence.\n\nGuam is governed by a popularly elected governor and a unicameral 15-member legislature, whose members are known as senators. Guam elects one non-voting delegate, currently Democrat Madeleine Z. Bordallo, to the United States House of Representatives. U.S. citizens in Guam vote in a straw poll for their choice in the U.S. Presidential general election, but since Guam has no votes in the Electoral College, the poll has no real effect. However, in sending delegates to the Republican and Democratic national conventions, Guam does have influence in the national presidential race, though these convention delegates are elected by local party conventions rather than voters in primaries.\n"}
{"id": "470452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470452", "title": "War Crimes Act 1991", "text": "War Crimes Act 1991\n\nThe War Crimes Act 1991 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It confers jurisdiction on courts in the United Kingdom to try people for war crimes committed in Nazi Germany or German-occupied territory during the Second World War by people who were not British citizens at the time, but have since become British citizens or residents. The legislation was enacted, as there then were no provisions to allow the extradition of British residents, or naturalised citizens to face trial for war crimes in third countries. Other countries, such as the United States have used civil, rather than criminal proceedings, to resolve this issue by revoking citizenship of suspects, facilitating their deportation.\n\nThe Act was rejected by the House of Lords, and so it was passed with the authority of only the House of Commons, under the provisions of the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949. The Parliament Acts are rarely invoked: the War Crimes Act was only the fourth statute since 1911 enacted under their provisions, and the first since the Parliament Act 1949. The War Crimes Act remains the only time that the Parliament Acts were invoked by a Conservative government.\n\nTo date only one person, Anthony Sawoniuk, has been convicted under the Act. In 1999, he was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder during his involvement with the collaborationist Belarusian Auxiliary Police. He died in jail in 2005.\n\nThe first person to be charged, however, was fellow Belarusian officer, Symon Serafinowicz Sr. His trial commenced in 1997 for the murder of three unnamed Jews committed as during his role as Police chief in Mir. At this stage he was in the advanced stages of dementia was declared medically unfit. He died later that year.\n"}
