{"id": "3699713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3699713", "title": "Akilam nine", "text": "Akilam nine\n\nThe Akilam nine is one of the sub-sections of Akilattirattu Ammanai the Primary scripture of Ayyavazhi. It describes the events taking place immediately before and at the time of incarnation of Vaikundar in the world.\n\nThirumal discussed with Isurar regarding his birth in the world. After that he called the saint Vyakarar and inquired about the events that took place in the world from the beginnings and also the events that will take place till the end of times. After Vyakarar detailed about these events, he inscribed those in a stone in the Kayilai.\n\nAs per the instructions given by Thirumal, many saints reached Chendur with him. After this, Thirumal beget a child in the ocean and sent him into the land of Detchanam for the purpose of destroying Kali. Seeing the arrival of Thirumal in Chendur, Arumugan gave him a warm welcome and requested that everyone stay back in Chendur. Hearing this, Narayanar appreciated the rule of Murugan and called him son-in-law. He then spoke with Isar and reached the shores of Chendur sea.\n\nAfter this, the saints brought the body in which Vaikundar will incarnate, to the place where Vishnu resided. The body was actually born in the majestic land of Detchanam. Thirumal went into the sea and merged with Lakshmi and beget Vaikundar. Vaikundar was born out of the sea of Tiruchendur and Thirumal gave him the fourth Vinchai.\n"}
{"id": "6102307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6102307", "title": "Angels in the Infield", "text": "Angels in the Infield\n\nAngels in the Infield is a 2000 Disney television film, Directed by Robert King. A follow up to the 1994 film \"Angels in the Outfield\", and the 1997 film \"Angels in the Endzone\", this motion picture is about a group of angels trying to help a baseball team win a championship game, while at the same time helping to reunite the team's pitcher's family. The Anaheim Angels are again featured, in a reprise of the role that the team played during \"Angels in the Outfield\".\n\nWhen Eddie Everett (Patrick Warburton) was a rookie in 1992, he was one of the best pitchers of his time. He led the California Angels to the American League Championship Series, where they played the Boston Red Sox, and were one out away from making it to the World Series (this same situation occurred in real life, but in 1986, not 1992). When a rookie playing for the Red Sox hits a ground ball to Eddie, he bobbles it and is unable to get him out, while the runners he let on base score, losing a chance for the Angels to make it to the World Series. Ever since then, he had never been the same pitcher, or the same person.\n\nSix years later, Eddie and his wife, Claire, are divorced, and he has barely kept contact with their thirteen-year-old daughter, Laurel. However, at a game where the Anaheim Angels are playing the fictitious Arizona Crimson Devils, and they lose, Claire says that she is taking a job in Boston and is leaving Laurel with him. When he takes her back home, she realizes that his life isn't at all what she thought it'd be. He can't get over losing that game in his rookie year, and she prays that he can get a second chance.\n\nAfter hearing this prayer, real angel, and former Angels pitcher Bob Bugler, is sent to help her. He and other angels help the team have an incredible winning streak, right when Eddie was about to get cut from the team. Soon, his game improves, as well as his relationship with Laurel.\n\nAs the season ends, the Angels and the Crimson Devils are forced to play in a one-game playoff to determine which team will represent their division in the postseason. The actual devil makes a deal with Randy Fleck, the Crimson Devils' star player who was also the one who hit the grounder that blew the 1992 ALCS for the Angels, for Eddie to lose the game, and everything he cares about, in exchange for his soul. He agrees.\n\nThe devil makes the game delayed thanks to rain, and Eddie leaves to see Laurel's ballet recital. To get him to the game faster, Bob speeds up the recital. When he gets to the game, the Crimson Devils are up 2-0 in the bottom of the eighth inning. The Angels soon score three runs thanks to a home run by a player who had a demon holding him back. When Laurel asks Bob why he didn't do anything about it, he replies that the angels aren't allowed to help in championships. When the ninth inning comes, Eddie gets two quick outs, but then a player hits a triple. Then, Fleck who blew the game for him in his rookie year comes to the plate, and he asks God what to do, then Bob comes up to him on the mound and tells him that his angel just arrived, and he looks in the stands to see Claire standing there. After this, he pitches to him, and he hits a ground ball just like the one he hit in their rookie year, but this time, he manages to get it, and he throws it to first to end the game, and save his career. He hugs Laurel after the game, and kisses Claire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311040", "title": "Another Day in Paradise", "text": "Another Day in Paradise\n\n\"Another Day in Paradise\" is a song recorded by English drummer, singer-songwriter Phil Collins. Produced by Collins along with Hugh Padgham, it was released as the first single from his number-one album \"...But Seriously\" (1989). As with his song for Genesis, \"Man on the Corner\", the track has as its subject the problem of homelessness; as such, the song was a substantial departure from the dance-pop music of his previous album, \"No Jacket Required\" (1985).\n\nCollins sings the song from a third-person perspective, as he observes a man crossing the street to ignore a homeless woman, and he implores listeners not to turn a blind eye to homelessness because, by drawing a religious allusion, \"it's just another day for you and me in paradise\". Collins also appeals directly to God by singing: \"Oh Lord, is there nothing more anybody can do? Oh Lord, there must be something you can say.\"\n\nThe song was Collins' seventh and final \"Billboard\" Hot 100 No. 1 single, the last No. 1 single of the 1980s and the first No. 1 single of the 1990s. It was also a worldwide success, eventually becoming one of the most successful songs of his solo career. It won Collins and Padgham the Grammy Award for Record of the Year at the 1991 awards ceremony, while it was also nominated for Song of the Year, Best Pop Vocal Performance, Male and Best Music Video, Short Form. \"Another Day in Paradise\" also won an award for British Single at the 1990 Brit Awards. Despite the awards gained following its release, the song also generated some controversy over its subject matter and has received a largely negative reaction from music critics.\n\nCollins and David Crosby's live performance of the song at the 1991 Grammy Awards was released on the 1994 album \"Grammy's Greatest Moments Volume I\". In 2009, Collins's version was listed at 86th on \"Billboard\"s Greatest Songs of All Time. \"Another Day in Paradise\" has since been covered by several artists, including Brandy, her brother Ray J, Jam Tronik, Axxis, Novecento, and Hank Marvin.\n\nThe song was another massive hit for Collins. On 23 December 1989, it became his seventh () No. 1 single in the U.S. The song was also the final No. 1 song of the 1980s in the U.S., and remained at No. 1 for four weeks, which classifies the song as a hit from the 1990s as well. This song is notable for keeping Janet Jackson's \"Rhythm Nation\" from reaching No. 1. It also saw out the 1980s and saw in the 1990s at the top of the German singles chart. The song had already reached No. 2 in the UK in November of that year. The single version is slightly different from the album version in that it uses a shorter intro. David Crosby also provided backing vocals.\n\nMusic historian Colin Larkin wrote that \"Another Day in Paradise\" had been widely criticised. Collins addressed the criticism from the English rock press at the time of its release, who found him unqualified to sing about the poor due to his wealth, by saying: \"When I drive down the street, I see the same things everyone else sees. It's a misconception that if you have a lot of money you're somehow out of touch with reality.\"\n\nSinger-songwriter and political activist Billy Bragg was scathing of the song in an interview in 2000, drawing a contrast between Collins and a band he admired, the Clash, stating: \"Phil Collins might write a song about the homeless, but if he doesn't have the action to go with it he's just exploiting that for a subject.\" In 2003, Andrew Collins described the song as a \"bland redress\" for the subject of homelessness in the \"New Statesman\". Caroline Sullivan of \"The Guardian\" dismissed the track in 2007 as \"a song that addressed the issue of homelessness with the same insight as Sporty Spice's 'If That Were Me'\". Writing for the BBC in 2010, David Sheppard described the song's lyrics as \"cringe-worthy\" and gave it as an example of Collins \"painting the bull's-eye on his own forehead\" when it came to his negative status with music critics.\n\nWriting for MSN in 2013, Hugh Wilson contrasted Collins's concern for the homeless in the song with his concern as a multimillionaire at the prospect of the UK's election of a tax-raising socialist government. Referring to Collins's statement that he would consider leaving the UK with the election of a Labour government, Wilson noted that the song led to \"accusations of hypocrisy\" because Collins had \"bemoaned the plight of the homeless\" in it. Wilson also said Collins became \"an easy target when future elections came round\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVirgin - VSCD1233 (Martin H)\n\nLess than six months after the release of the original Phil Collins version, a cover version by dance act Jam Tronik was released in the UK. In April 1990, it peaked at number 19 on the UK Singles Chart. Sampled in this version is the drum loop from the 1988 Raze song \"Break 4 Love\".\n\nIn 2001, siblings Brandy and Ray J covered the song for the Phil Collins tribute album \"Urban Renewal\". Produced by Guy Roche and released as the album's lead single, the cover version became a top ten success in Austria, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium, Norway, Ireland, the Netherlands, and the UK, receiving gold certifications in Australia (35,000), Germany (150,000), France (100,000) and Switzerland (25,000). In 2002, this version of the song was included on the European edition of Brandy's \"Full Moon\" album.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49185348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49185348", "title": "Apostolic Vicariate of Jimma–Bonga", "text": "Apostolic Vicariate of Jimma–Bonga\n\nThe Apostolic Vicariate of Jimma–Bonga is a Roman Catholic pre-diocesan missionary jurisdiction in southwestern Ethiopia.\n\nIt is exempt, i.e. directly dependent on the Holy See (Roman missionary Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples), not part of any ecclesiastical province.\n\nIts episcopal see is the Pro-Cathedral Lideta Mariam, in Bonga town in Jimma, in the Keffa Zone of the Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region.\n\nEstablished on 1994.06.10 as Apostolic Prefecture of Jimma–Bonga (Gimma–Bonga in Curiate Italiano), on territory split off from the Apostolic Vicariate of Nekemte.\n\nLost territory on 2000.11.16 to establish the Apostolic Prefecture of Gambella.\n\nPromoted on 2009.12.05 as Apostolic Vicariate of Jimma–Bonga.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58420432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58420432", "title": "Astrid Zydower", "text": "Astrid Zydower\n\nAstrid Zydower (4 August 1930 – 27 May 2005) was a British sculptor.\n\nZydower was born in 1930 in a small village in the Galicia region which at that time was within the borders of Germany. As a Jewish family, the Zydowers faced discrimination and oppression under the Nazi government so in 1939 the three Zydower children were evacuated to Britain on the last Kindertransport train to leave the territory before the start of World War II. \nDuring The Holocaust both of Zydower's parents were deported to and then killed in the Auschwitz concentration camp. \n\nIn England the three Zydower children were taken into foster care by a Quaker family, the Freemans, in Sheffield. At first unable to speak English, Astrid Zydower struggled at school but did show a talent for drawing and went on to study at Sheffield School of Art. From there she won a scholarship to the Royal College of Art in London where she was taught by Leon Underwood and John Skeaping and developed her ability as a sculptor.\nDuring the 1960s, Zydower taught at the Hornsey School of Art in north London and undertook a number of high profile, and often very large, sculptures commissions. In 1964, for the 400th anniversary of the birth of William Shakespeare, she completed a series of life-size figures for Stratford, Ontario. Works by Zydower were commissioned for the Expo '67 world trade fair in Montreal and subsequently for Expo '70 in Osaka. \n\nAmong Zydower's students at Hornsey was Shirley Ann Shepherd, the wife of Charlie Watts, the Rolling Stones drummer. This led to a number of commissions for Zydower from Watts and other members of the band. For Watts she produced a bust of Ulysses and for Mick Jagger a head of Actaeon. She produced a large Nativity scene for St Paul's Cathedral which was displayed there each Christmas for many years until it was transferred to Lincoln Cathedral. For the Museum of the Jewish Dispora in Tel-Aviv, Zydower created a scene of group of ten men, a minyan, preparing to enter a prayer room. A 1970 commission to create a bronze bust of Dame Marie Rambert, founder of the Ballet Rambert, led to a lifelong friendship and several other studies of ballet dancers, including members of the New York City Ballet. In 1984, for the fountain on the central terrace of Harewood House in Yorkshire Zydower created a nine foot high bronze of Orpheus carrying a leopard. In later life she concentrated on etching, mainly of figures from Greek mythology, rather than sculpture.\n\nWorks by Zydower are held in both the Victoria & Albert Museum and the National Portrait Gallery in London. In 1968 she was awarded an MBE and for many years lived in a large house, that contained her studio, in Kentish Town in north London and it was there that she died in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9042644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9042644", "title": "Bando yoga", "text": "Bando yoga\n\nBando yoga or Burmese yoga is a form of yoga from Myanmar usually taught alongside bando. It is probably based on the internal training of Indian martial arts and is often referred to as peasant or slave yoga. It was for the common man and also used by ancient warriors of northern Burma to maintain health and protect from illness and disease. Today it is practiced by ethnic Burmese in parts of Southeast Asia, India.\n\nBando really spread in Burma when Japanese invaded the country in 1942. It is part of a collection of martial arts called Thaing.\n\nThe discipline includes the fighting and defensive behaviors of animals such as the cobra, python, viper, tiger, leopard, monkey, bull, boar and scorpion.\n\nBando yoga is used for three main purposes. These are for maintaining overall health, resisting illness and disease, and restoring or recovering from illness and injury. It is not a yoga system for enlightenment but for developing and maintaining efficient functionality in our everyday life, whether it be as a worker/laborer, monk or warrior.\n\nThere are three systems of Burmese yoga:\n\n"}
{"id": "38659803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38659803", "title": "Church of Scientology International", "text": "Church of Scientology International\n\nThe Church of Scientology International, Inc. (CSI) is a California 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation. Within the worldwide network of Scientology corporations and entities, CSI is officially referred to as the \"mother church\" of the Church of Scientology.\n\nThe Church of Scientology International coordinates church growth, and attempts to preserve the uniformity of the teachings of Scientology's founder, L. Ron Hubbard. Golden Era Productions, a division of CSI, prints Scientology material, such as books, audio recordings of Hubbard's lectures, training films, and similar. Golden Era Productions also oversees the manufacture of E-meters.\n\nIn a 1993 memorandum by CSI, the following information was provided to the Internal Revenue Service with regards to CSI's role and functions, its personnel and its income:\n\n[...] CSI [...] is the Mother Church of the Scientology religion, with ecclesiastical authority over the ministry of religious services to parishioners by all subordinate churches within the ecclesiastical hierarchy. This church has a staff of approximately 990 individuals and an annual budget of approximately $ 46.8 million, based on its annual disbursements for the most recent year for which financial statements are available. [...]\"\n\nThe Church of Scientology International (CSI) was incorporated on November 18, 1981 in Los Angeles, California by Richard Murray.\n\nThe official address of CSI is 6331 Hollywood Boulevard, Los Angeles 90028, in the Hollywood Guarantee Building. CSI maintains as well offices at the Scientology complex in Gilman Hot Springs. Here the official address is 19625 Highway 79, Gilman Hot Springs 92383.\n\nOn September 21, 1993 the following individuals held corporate positions at CSI: The Board of Trustees was composed of Mark Rathbun, Ray Mithoff, Mark Ingber, Marc Yager and John Eastment. Jens Uhrskov, Michael Rinder and Guillaume Lesèvre formed the Board of Directors. At that time, the President of CSI was Heber Jentzsch, CSI's Vice-President was Brian Anderson, its Secretary Lynn Farny, its Assistant Secretary Leslie Browning and its Treasurer Jonathan Epstein.\n\nAs of September 12, 1999 CSI's corporate officers were Heber Jentzsch as Chief Executive Officer (President), Lynn Farny as Secretary and Sarah Blythe as Chief Financial Officer (Treasurer).\n\nAs of March 24, 2008, CSI's official agent has been Jeanne M. Gavigan, 3055 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 900, Los Angeles 90010.\n\nOn August 18, 1993, CSI filed an application for tax exemption under section 501(c)3) of the Internal Revenue Code and on September 3, 1993 a request for \"group exemption\" for the affiliated \"Scientology churches\"/\"Class V organizations\". In the same year, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) eventually granted CSI's request for exemption.\n\nThe granting of tax exemption to CSI and other Scientology corporations was preceded by years of continuous litigation between the IRS and the various entities of Scientology. According to former high-ranking executives, the Scientology organization had launched about 200 lawsuits against the IRS until 1991. During the same time, individual parishioners of Scientology had initiated 2,300 claims against the agency, challenging the denial of tax deduction for their services at Scientology organizations. Late 1991, the dispute over Scientology's tax-exempt status began to resolve through high-level meetings between David Miscavige and the then Commissioner of the IRS, Fred Goldberg, who encouraged a final resolution of the legal battle.\n\nWithin the corporate structure of the Scientology network, the Religious Technology Center owns the right to license the Scientology trademarks and service marks through a so-called \"assignment agreement\" between RTC and the founder of Scientology, L. Ron Hubbard on May 16, 1982.\n\nRTC and CSI entered a license agreement on May 18, 1982, granting CSI, the new \"Mother Church of Scientology,\" the right to use and sub-license certain of the trademarks and service marks.\n\nAdditionally RTC and CSI signed on January 1, 1982 an \"Organizational Covenant\" granting CSI the right to deliver the \"Advanced Technology\" to its staff members.\n\nCSI presents itself as the \"mother church\" of the \"Scientology religion.\" In this function, it exercises through various agreements with its subordinate organizations worldwide ultimate corporative control over those organizations and their activities.\n\nIn particular, CSI has entered the following types of agreements with other organizations:\n\n\nCSI consists of a numerous corporations and unincorporated entities that are connected together by contracts and, more importantly, by the internal policies and the so-called \"Scientology command channels\", which define their activities.\n\nSpecifically CSI consists of the following principal organizations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48163953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48163953", "title": "Differences between Sunni, Shia and Ibadi Islam", "text": "Differences between Sunni, Shia and Ibadi Islam\n\nThis is a growing comparison chart between the three largest branches of Islam: Sunni, Shia and Ibadi.\n\n"}
{"id": "40645181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40645181", "title": "Ezechiel Saad", "text": "Ezechiel Saad\n\nEzechiel Saad (born August 29, 1943, Argentina) is a writer, painter and graphic designer, lecturer and cultural entertainer naturalized French in 1990. He specialized in the interpretation of the \"I Ching\" or \"Book of Changes\" and published four books from 1989.\n\nSaad was born in Buenos Aires, in the heart of an immigrant family of Syrian and Ukrainian origin. He travelled from his youth touring America, Europe and the Far East. During his tour of Latin America met some of the intellectuals who encouraged the cultural life of the time. Soon he was drawn by humanism and altruism that inspired his compatriots, painter Pérez Celis and poet Alejandra Pizarnik; in Quito, Ulises Estrella and the \"tzánzicos\"; and Sergio Mondragón in Mexico. He was part of the venezuelan literary and artistic group \"The roof of the whale\" and joined the countercultural movements of the 60s.\n\nIs part of the artistic movement \"Nueva Presencia\" that runs Arnold Belkin, and encourages the university cultural life with a radio program at the University of Mexico, assisted by writer Max Aub. In the United States met with poets Allen Ginsberg and Lawrence Ferlinghetti, increasing his spiritual concern.\n\nAfter his forced return to Argentina to perform military service, sailed to Europe where he discovered the I Ching in 1964, and began experimenting and studying it in the monotheistic religions context. In 1969 he began to practice zazen, sitting as a disciple of Japanese Master Taisen Deshimaru, who brought Zen to Europe.\n\nIn 1979, after his ordination as Zen monk in Paris he alternated spiritual life, artistic development and trips to Japan and China, where he met and practiced zazen with other masters as Philip Kapleau and Maezumi Roshi. As a result, he was invited to the Eranos Foundation in 1991 by the translator of the I Ching, Rudolph Ritsema.\n\nFrom 1978 he started as a lecturer at the Sorbonne and Centre Pompidou in Paris, at the Institut Belge des Hautes Etudes chinoises, Brussels, centres of gestalt psychology with (Norberto Levi), and eastern philosophy centres in Europe and South America. In 1996 he created the International School of I Ching in Paris. whose vice-chairman is Peter Adam Coppens.\n\nBetween 1967 and 1974 he held an atellier at La Ruche,the artists residence designed by Gustave Eiffel, participating in the artistic bohemia of Paris, and meanwhile dedicated to the creation and study of Zen as a member of the International Zen Association.\n\nFrom 1989 he began to work as a digital artist, being one of the pioneers and exhibiting in various halls and galleries: Art 3000, Studio Graphic Apple France, Apple Expo (CNIT and Lyon), College of Fine Arts in Paris National School (ENSBA), Futurys, and Traphot (Epinal and Paris). \nBetween 1991 and 1994 illustrated the covers and magazine articles: Le Courrier de l'Unesco, Macworld, Graphic Studio, Génération Tao, Sino Santé, and Nouvelles Clés. He exhibited his creations at the New York Open Center, and in art galleries in Europe, as Wipple Museum of Cambridge, and also Japan.\n\nMeanwhile, he is still carrying out his research on philosophy, spirituality and art. Since 1984 he practices and investigates with the I Ching (Yi Jing) and publish several editions in French, Spanish and Portuguese. He deals with the myths and history of the Far East, the notions of chance and determinism, health and wellness, awareness raising and the pursuit of happiness. He introduces in his research the contemplative experience of Zen and Tibetan Buddhism along with Western science and philosophy, following the approach of Dr. Joseph Needham, who will meet twice in Cambridge, 1986-87.\nHe settled in Barcelona in 2003, where he continues his work as a consultant, writer and artist. He lectures and teaches at Casa Asia, and the Writers' Association of Catalonia. He applies his knowledge of the I Ching and Zen to the study of specific problems with the support of new technologies and social networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1547304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1547304", "title": "Flidais", "text": "Flidais\n\nFlidas or Flidais (modern spelling: Fliodhas, Fliodhais) is a female figure in Irish Mythology, known by the epithet \"Foltchaín\" (\"beautiful hair\"). She is believed to have been a goddess of cattle and fertility. In the recent past she has been popularly rendered as a woodland goddess akin to the Greek Artemis and Roman Diana, though scholars now believe this to be incorrect. \n\nShe is mentioned in the Metrical Dindshenchas as mother of Fand and in the \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\" as the mother of Fand, Bé Chuille and Bé Téite. In the Middle Irish glossary \"Cóir Anmann\" (\"Fitness of Names\") she is said to be the wife of the legendary High King Adamair and the mother of Nia Segamain, who by his mother's power was able to milk deer as if they were cows. This association with deer, and her subsequent attribution as a woodland goddess is based on an unlikely medieval folk etymology of her name as \"flid ois\" or \"wetness of a faun.\" This etymology may have been an effort to conflate Flidais with the deer maiden, Sadhbh from the Fenian Cycle. The myths relating to Fliodhais overwhelmingly focus only on cattle and milking.\n\nFlidais is a central figure in \"Táin Bó Flidhais\" (\"The Driving-off of Flidais's Cattle\"), an Ulster Cycle work, where she is the lover of Fergus mac Róich and the owner of a magical herd of cattle. The story, set in Erris, County Mayo tells how Fergus carried her and her cattle away from her husband, Ailill Finn. During the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\" (Cattle Raid of Cooley) she slept in the tent of Ailill mac Máta, king of Connacht, and every seven days her herd supplied milk for the entire army. In \"Táin Bó Flidhais\" she has a favoured white cow known as \"The Maol\" which can feed 300 men from one night's milking. Another Ulster Cycle tale says that it took seven women to satisfy Fergus, unless he could have Flidais. Her affair with Fergus is the subject of oral tradition in County Mayo.\n"}
{"id": "778284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=778284", "title": "Flora (mythology)", "text": "Flora (mythology)\n\nIn Roman mythology, Flora () is a Sabine-derived goddess of flowers and of the season of spring – a symbol for nature and flowers (especially the may-flower). While she was otherwise a relatively minor figure in Roman mythology, being one among several fertility goddesses, her association with the spring gave her particular importance at the coming of springtime, as did her role as goddess of youth. Her Greek counterpart is Chloris. \n\nHer name is derived from the Latin word \"flos\" which means \"flower\". In modern English, \"Flora\" also means the plants of a particular region or period.\n\nHer festival, the \"Floralia\", was held between April 28 and May 3 and symbolized the renewal of the cycle of life, drinking, and flowers. The festival was first instituted in 240 B.C.E, and on the advice of the Sibylline books, she was also given a temple in 238 B.C.E. At the festival, with the men decked in flowers, and the women wearing normally forbidden gay costumes, five days of farces and mimes were enacted – ithyphallic, and including nudity when called for – followed by a sixth day of the hunting of goats and hares. On May 23 another (rose) festival was held in her honor.\n\nFlora's Greek equivalent is Chloris, who was a nymph. Flora is married to Favonius, the wind god also known as Zephyr, and her companion was Hercules.\n\nFlora achieved more prominence in the neo-pagan revival of Antiquity among Renaissance humanists than she had ever enjoyed in ancient Rome.\n\nFlora is the main character of the ballet \"The Awakening of Flora\". She is also mentioned in Henry Purcell's Nymphs and Shepherds.\n\nThere are many monuments of Flora, e.g. in Capitoline Museums in Rome (Italy), in Valencia (Spain) and Szczecin (Poland) (see Statue of Flora in Szczecin).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41749210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41749210", "title": "Folksblat (Montevideo)", "text": "Folksblat (Montevideo)\n\nFolksblat ('People's Newspaper') was a Yiddish language daily published in Uruguay 1931–1964. It had a Zionist orientation.\n\nThe newspaper was founded as Der tog ('The Day'). It was the first Jewish daily newspaper in the country. Its offices were located at 1911 Andes in downtown Montevideo. Berl Reznicovich and Moisés Orzuj were the editors of \"Der tog\".\n\nIn 1933 it changed name to Der uruguayer tog ('The Uruguayan Day'). In 1935 it took the name \"Folksblat\". As of the late 1950s, it was estimated to have a circulation of 8,000. It was published as a morning daily, except on Mondays. The newspaper was closed down in 1964.\n"}
{"id": "46006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46006", "title": "Freedom of religion", "text": "Freedom of religion\n\nFreedom of religion is a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or community, in public or private, to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship, and observance. It also includes the freedom to change one's religion or beliefs.\n\nFreedom of religion is considered by many people and most of the nations to be a fundamental human right. In a country with a state religion, freedom of religion is generally considered to mean that the government permits religious practices of other sects besides the state religion, and does not persecute believers in other faiths.\nFreedom of belief is different. It allows the right to believe what a person, group or religion wishes, but it does not necessarily allow the right to practice the religion or belief openly and outwardly in a public manner.\n\nHistorically, \"freedom of religion\" has been used to refer to the tolerance of different theological systems of belief, while \"freedom of worship\" has been defined as freedom of individual action. Nevertheless, freedom \"from\" religion is a far more pressing moralistic, legal, and peaceful solution. Each of these have existed to varying degrees. While many countries have accepted some form of religious freedom, this has also often been limited in practice through punitive taxation, repressive social legislation, and political disenfranchisement. Compare examples of individual freedom in Italy or the Muslim tradition of dhimmis, literally \"protected individuals\" professing an officially tolerated non-Muslim religion.\nIn Antiquity, a syncretic point of view often allowed communities of traders to operate under their own customs. When street mobs of separate quarters clashed in a Hellenistic or Roman city, the issue was generally perceived to be an infringement of community rights.\n\nCyrus the Great established the Achaemenid Empire ca. 550 BC, and initiated a general policy of permitting religious freedom throughout the empire, documenting this on the Cyrus Cylinder.\n\nSome of the historical exceptions have been in regions where one of the revealed religions has been in a position of power: Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Christianity and Islam. Others have been where the established order has felt threatened, as shown in the trial of Socrates in 399 BC or where the ruler has been deified, as in Rome, and refusal to offer token sacrifice was similar to refusing to take an oath of allegiance. This was the core for resentment and the persecution of early Christian communities.\n\nFreedom of religious worship was established in the Buddhist Maurya Empire of ancient India by Ashoka the Great in the 3rd century BC, which was encapsulated in the Edicts of Ashoka.\n\nGreek-Jewish clashes at Cyrene in 73 AD and 117 AD and in Alexandria in 115 AD provide examples of cosmopolitan cities as scenes of tumult.\n\nThe Romans tolerated most religions, including Judaism and encouraged local subjects to continue worshipping their own gods. They did not however, tolerate Christianity until it was legalised by the Roman emperor Galerius in 311. The Edict of Milan guaranteed freedom of religion in the Roman Empire until the Edict of Thessalonica in 380, which outlawed all religions except Christianity.\n\nFollowing a period of fighting lasting around a hundred years before 620 AD which mainly involved Arab and Jewish inhabitants of Medina (then known as \"Yathrib\"), religious freedom for Muslims, Jews and pagans was declared by Muhammad in the Constitution of Medina. The Islamic Caliphate later guaranteed religious freedom under the conditions that non-Muslim communities accept \"dhimmi\" status and their adult males pay the punitive \"jizya\" tax instead of the \"zakat\" paid by Muslim citizens. Though Dhimmis were not given the same political rights as Muslims, they nevertheless did enjoy equality under the laws of property, contract, and obligation.\n\nReligious pluralism existed in classical Islamic ethics and Sharia, as the religious laws and courts of other religions, including Christianity, Judaism and Hinduism, were usually accommodated within the Islamic legal framework, as seen in the early Caliphate, Al-Andalus, Indian subcontinent, and the Ottoman Millet system. In medieval Islamic societies, the \"qadi\" (Islamic judges) usually could not interfere in the matters of non-Muslims unless the parties voluntarily choose to be judged according to Islamic law, thus the \"dhimmi\" communities living in Islamic states usually had their own laws independent from the Sharia law, such as the Jews who would have their own \"Halakha\" courts.\n\nDhimmis were allowed to operate their own courts following their own legal systems in cases that did not involve other religious groups, or capital offences or threats to public order. Non-Muslims were allowed to engage in religious practices that were usually forbidden by Islamic law, such as the consumption of alcohol and pork, as well as religious practices which Muslims found repugnant, such as the Zoroastrian practice of incestuous \"self-marriage\" where a man could marry his mother, sister or daughter. According to the famous Islamic legal scholar Ibn Qayyim (1292–1350), non-Muslims had the right to engage in such religious practices even if it offended Muslims, under the conditions that such cases not be presented to Islamic Sharia courts and that these religious minorities believed that the practice in question is permissible according to their religion.\n\nDespite Dhimmis enjoying special statuses under the Caliphates, they were not considered equals, and sporadic persecutions of non-Muslim groups did occur in the history of the Caliphates.\n\nAncient Jews fleeing from persecution in their homeland 2,500 years ago settled in India and never faced anti-Semitism. Freedom of religion edicts have been found written during Ashoka the Great's reign in the 3rd century BC. Freedom to practise, preach and propagate any religion is a constitutional right in Modern India. Most major religious festivals of the main communities are included in the list of national holidays.\n\nAlthough India is an 80% Hindu country, India is a secular state without any state religions.\n\nMany scholars and intellectuals believe that India's predominant religion, Hinduism, has long been a most tolerant religion. Rajni Kothari, founder of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies has written, \"[India] is a country built on the foundations of a civilisation that is fundamentally non-religious.\"\n\nThe Dalai Lama, the Tibetan leader in exile, said that religious tolerance of 'Aryabhoomi,' a reference to India found in the Mahabharata, has been in existence in this country from thousands of years. \"Not only Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism, Sikhism which are the native religions but also Christianity and Islam have flourished here. Religious tolerance is inherent in Indian tradition,\" the Dalai Lama said.\n\nFreedom of religion in the Indian subcontinent is exemplified by the reign of King Piyadasi (304–232 BC) (Ashoka). One of King Ashoka's main concerns was to reform governmental institutes and exercise moral principles in his attempt to create a just and humane society. Later he promoted the principles of Buddhism, and the creation of a just, understanding and fair society was held as an important principle for many ancient rulers of this time in the East.\n\nThe importance of freedom of worship in India was encapsulated in an inscription of Ashoka:\n\nOn the main Asian continent, the Mongols were tolerant of religions. People could worship as they wished freely and openly.\n\nAfter the arrival of Europeans, Christians in their zeal to convert local as per belief in conversion as service of God, have also been seen to fall into frivolous methods since their arrival, though by and large there are hardly any reports of law and order disturbance from mobs with Christian beliefs, except perhaps in the north eastern region of India.\n\nFreedom of religion in contemporary India is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 25 of the nation's constitution. Accordingly, every citizen of India has a right to profess, practice and propagate their religions peacefully. Vishwa Hindu Parishad counters this argument by saying that evangelical Christians are forcefully (or through money) converting rural, illiterate populations and they are only trying to stop this.\n\nIn September 2010, the Indian state of Kerala's State Election Commissioner announced that \"Religious heads cannot issue calls to vote for members of a particular community or to defeat the nonbelievers\". The Catholic Church comprising Latin, Syro-Malabar and Syro-Malankara rites used to give clear directions to the faithful on exercising their franchise during elections through pastoral letters issued by bishops or council of bishops. The pastoral letter issued by Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC) on the eve of the poll urged the faithful to shun atheists.\n\nEven today, most Indians celebrate all religious festivals with equal enthusiasm and respect. Hindu festivals like Deepavali and Holi, Muslim festivals like Eid al-Fitr, Eid-Ul-Adha, Muharram, Christian festivals like Christmas and other festivals like Buddha Purnima, Mahavir Jayanti, Gur Purab etc. are celebrated and enjoyed by all Indians.\n\nMost Roman Catholic kingdoms kept a tight rein on religious expression throughout the Middle Ages. Jews were alternately tolerated and persecuted, the most notable examples of the latter being the expulsion of all Jews from Spain in 1492. Some of those who remained and converted were tried as heretics in the Inquisition for allegedly practicing Judaism in secret. Despite the persecution of Jews, they were the most tolerated non-Catholic faith in Europe.\n\nHowever, the latter was in part a reaction to the growing movement that became the Reformation. As early as 1380, John Wycliffe in England denied transubstantiation and began his translation of the Bible into English. He was condemned in a Papal Bull in 1410, and all his books were burned.\n\nIn 1414, Jan Hus, a Bohemian preacher of reformation, was given a safe conduct by the Holy Roman Emperor to attend the Council of Constance. Not entirely trusting in his safety, he made his will before he left. His forebodings proved accurate, and he was burned at the stake on 6 July 1415. The Council also decreed that Wycliffe's remains be disinterred and cast out. This decree was not carried out until 1429.\n\nAfter the fall of the city of Granada, Spain, in 1492, the Muslim population was promised religious freedom by the Treaty of Granada, but that promise was short-lived. In 1501, Granada's Muslims were given an ultimatum to either convert to Christianity or to emigrate. The majority converted, but only superficially, continuing to dress and speak as they had before and to secretly practice Islam. The Moriscos (converts to Christianity) were ultimately expelled from Spain between 1609 (Castile) and 1614 (rest of Spain), by Philip III.\n\nMartin Luther published his famous 95 Theses in Wittenberg on 31 October 1517. His major aim was theological, summed up in the three basic dogmas of Protestantism:\n\n\nIn consequence, Luther hoped to stop the sale of indulgences and to reform the Church from within. In 1521, he was given the chance to recant at the Diet of Worms before Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. After he refused to recant, he was declared heretic. Partly for his own protection, he was sequestered on the Wartburg in the possessions of Frederick III, Elector of Saxony, where he translated the New Testament into German. He was excommunicated by Papal Bull in 1521.\n\nHowever, the movement continued to gain ground in his absence and spread to Switzerland. Huldrych Zwingli preached reform in Zürich from 1520 to 1523. He opposed the sale of indulgences, celibacy, pilgrimages, pictures, statues, relics, altars, and organs. This culminated in outright war between the Swiss cantons that accepted Protestantism and the Catholics. The Catholics were victorious, and Zwingli was killed in battle in 1531. The Catholic cantons were magnanimous in victory.\n\nThe defiance of Papal authority proved contagious, and in 1533, when Henry VIII of England was excommunicated for his divorce and remarriage to Anne Boleyn, he promptly established a state church with bishops appointed by the crown. This was not without internal opposition, and Thomas More, who had been his Lord Chancellor, was executed in 1535 for opposition to Henry.\n\nIn 1535, the Swiss canton of Geneva became Protestant. In 1536, the Bernese imposed the reformation on the canton of Vaud by conquest. They sacked the cathedral in Lausanne and destroyed all its art and statuary. John Calvin, who had been active in Geneva was expelled in 1538 in a power struggle, but he was invited back in 1540.\nThe same kind of seesaw back and forth between Protestantism and Catholicism was evident in England when Mary I of England returned that country briefly to the Catholic fold in 1553 and persecuted Protestants. However, her half-sister, Elizabeth I of England was to restore the Church of England in 1558, this time permanently, and began to persecute Catholics again. The King James Bible commissioned by King James I of England and published in 1611 proved a landmark for Protestant worship, with official Catholic forms of worship being banned.\n\nIn France, although peace was made between Protestants and Catholics at the Treaty of Saint Germain in 1570, persecution continued, most notably in the Massacre of Saint Bartholomew's Day on 24 August 1572, in which thousands of Protestants throughout France were killed. A few years before, at the \"Michelade\" of Nîmes in 1567, Protestants had massacred the local Catholic clergy.\n\nThe Norman Kingdom of Sicily under Roger II was characterized by its multi-ethnic nature and religious tolerance. Normans, Jews, Muslim Arabs, Byzantine Greeks, Lombards, and native Sicilians lived in harmony. Rather than exterminate the Muslims of Sicily, Roger II's grandson Emperor Frederick II of Hohenstaufen (1215–1250) allowed them to settle on the mainland and build mosques. Not least, he enlisted them in his Christian army and even into his personal bodyguards.\n\nBohemia (present-day Czech Republic) enjoyed religious freedom between 1436 and 1520, and became one of the most liberal countries of the Christian world during that period of time. The so-called Basel Compacts of 1436 declared the freedom of religion and peace between Catholics and Utraquists. In 1609 Emperor Rudolf II granted Bohemia greater religious liberty with his Letter of Majesty. The privileged position of the Catholic Church in the Czech kingdom was firmly established after the Battle of White Mountain in 1620. Gradually freedom of religion in Bohemian lands came to an end and Protestants fled or were expelled from the country. A devout Catholic, Emperor Ferdinand II forcibly converted Austrian and Bohemian Protestants.\n\nIn the meantime, in Germany Philip Melanchthon drafted the Augsburg Confession as a common confession for the Lutherans and the free territories. It was presented to Charles V in 1530.\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, Charles V agreed to tolerate Lutheranism in 1555 at the Peace of Augsburg. Each state was to take the religion of its prince, but within those states, there was not necessarily religious tolerance. Citizens of other faiths could relocate to a more hospitable environment.\n\nIn France, from the 1550s, many attempts to reconcile Catholics and Protestants and to establish tolerance failed because the State was too weak to enforce them. It took the victory of prince Henry IV of France, who had converted into Protestantism, and his accession to the throne, to impose religious tolerance formalized in the Edict of Nantes in 1598. It would remain in force for over 80 years until its revocation in 1685 by Louis XIV of France. Intolerance remained the norm until Louis XVI, who signed the Edict of Versailles (1787), then the constitutional text of 24 December 1789, granting civilian rights to Protestants. The French Revolution then abolished state religion and confiscated all Church property, turning intolerance against Catholics.\n\nIn 1558, the Transylvanian Diet's Edict of Torda declared free practice of both Catholicism and Lutheranism. Calvinism, however, was prohibited. Calvinism was included among the accepted religions in 1564. Ten years after the first law, in 1568, the same Diet, under the chairmanship of King of Hungary, and Prince of Transylvania John Sigismund Zápolya (John II.), following the teaching of Ferenc Dávid, the founder of the Unitarian Church of Transylvania, extended the freedom to all religions, declaring that \"It is not allowed to anybody to intimidate anybody with captivity or expelling for his religion\". However, it was more than a religious tolerance; it declared the equality of the religions, prohibiting all kinds of acts from authorities or from simple people, which could harm other groups or people because of their religious beliefs. The emergence in social hierarchy wasn't dependent on the religion of the person thus Transylvania had also Catholic and Protestant monarchs, who all respected the Edict of Torda. The lack of state religion was unique for centuries in Europe. Therefore, the Edict of Torda is considered as the first legal guarantee of religious freedom in Christian Europe.\n\nFour religions (Catholicism, Lutheranism, Calvinism, Unitarianism) were named as accepted religions (religo recepta), having their representatives in the Transylvanian Diet, while the other religions, like the Orthodoxs, Sabbatarians and Anabaptists were tolerated churches (religio tolerata), which meant that they had no power in the law making and no veto rights in the Diet, but they were not persecuted in any way. Thanks to the Edict of Torda, from the last decades of the 16th Century Transylvania was the only place in Europe, where so many religions could live together in harmony and without persecution.\n\nThis religious freedom ended however for some of the religions of Transylvania in 1638. After this year the Sabbatarians begun to be persecuted, and forced to convert to one of the accepted religions of Transylvania.\n\nAlso the Unitarians (despite of being one of the \"accepted religions\") started to be put under an ever-growing pressure, which culminated after the Habsburg conquest of Transylvania (1691), Also after the Habsburg occupation, the new Austrian masters forced in the middle of the 18th century the Hutterite Anabaptists (who found a safe heaven in 1621 in Transylvania, after the persecution to which they were subjected in the Austrian provinces and Moravia) to convert to Catholicism or to migrate in another country, which finally the Anabaptists did, leaving Transylvania and Hungary for Wallachia, than from there to Russia, and finally in the United States.\n\nIn the Union of Utrecht (20 January 1579), personal freedom of religion was declared in the struggle between the Northern Netherlands and Spain. The Union of Utrecht was an important step in the establishment of the Dutch Republic (from 1581 to 1795). Under Calvinist leadership, the Netherlands became the most tolerant country in Europe. It granted asylum to persecuted religious minorities, such as the Huguenots, the Dissenters, and the Jews who had been expelled from Spain and Portugal. The establishment of a Jewish community in the Netherlands and New Amsterdam (present-day New York) during the Dutch Republic is an example of religious freedom. When New Amsterdam surrendered to the English in 1664, freedom of religion was guaranteed in the Articles of Capitulation. It benefitted also the Jews who had landed on Manhattan Island in 1654, fleeing Portuguese persecution in Brazil. During the 18th century, other Jewish communities were established at Newport, Rhode Island, Philadelphia, Charleston, Savannah, and Richmond.\n\nIntolerance of dissident forms of Protestantism also continued, as evidenced by the exodus of the Pilgrims, who sought refuge, first in the Netherlands, and ultimately in America, founding Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts in 1620. William Penn, the founder of Philadelphia, was involved in a case which had a profound effect upon future American laws and those of England. In a classic case of jury nullification, the jury refused to convict William Penn of preaching a Quaker sermon, which was illegal. Even though the jury was imprisoned for their acquittal, they stood by their decision and helped establish the freedom of religion.\n\nThe General Charter of Jewish Liberties known as the Statute of Kalisz was issued by the Duke of Greater Poland Boleslaus the Pious on 8 September 1264 in Kalisz. The statute served as the basis for the legal position of Jews in Poland and led to the creation of the Yiddish-speaking autonomous Jewish nation until 1795. The statute granted exclusive jurisdiction of Jewish courts over Jewish matters and established a separate tribunal for matters involving Christians and Jews. Additionally, it guaranteed personal liberties and safety for Jews including freedom of religion, travel, and trade. The statute was ratified by subsequent Polish Kings: Casimir III of Poland in 1334, Casimir IV of Poland in 1453 and Sigismund I of Poland in 1539. Poland freed Jews from direct royal authority, opening up enormous administrative and economic opportunities to them.\n\nThe right to worship freely was a basic right given to all inhabitants of the future Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth throughout the 15th and early 16th century, however, complete freedom of religion was officially recognized in 1573 during the Warsaw Confederation. Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth kept religious freedom laws during an era when religious persecution was an everyday occurrence in the rest of Europe.\n\nMost of the early colonies were generally not tolerant of dissident forms of worship, with Maryland being one of the exceptions. For example, Roger Williams found it necessary to found a new colony in Rhode Island to escape persecution in the theocratically dominated colony of Massachusetts. The Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony were the most active of the New England persecutors of Quakers, and the persecuting spirit was shared by Plymouth Colony and the colonies along the Connecticut river. In 1660, one of the most notable victims of the religious intolerance was English Quaker Mary Dyer, who was hanged in Boston, Massachusetts for repeatedly defying a Puritan law banning Quakers from the colony. As one of the four executed Quakers known as the Boston martyrs, the hanging of Dyer on the Boston gallows marked the beginning of the end of the Puritan theocracy and New England independence from English rule, and in 1661 King Charles II explicitly forbade Massachusetts from executing anyone for professing Quakerism. Anti-Catholic sentiment appeared in New England with the first Pilgrim and Puritan settlers. In 1647, Massachusetts passed a law prohibiting any Jesuit Roman Catholic priests from entering territory under Puritan jurisdiction. Any suspected person who could not clear himself was to be banished from the colony; a second offense carried a death penalty. The Pilgrims of New England held radical Protestant disapproval of Christmas. Christmas observance was outlawed in Boston in 1659. The ban by the Puritans was revoked in 1681 by an English appointed governor, however it was not until the mid-19th century that celebrating Christmas became common in the Boston region.\n\nFreedom of religion was first applied as a principle of government in the founding of the colony of Maryland, founded by the Catholic Lord Baltimore, in 1634. Fifteen years later (1649), the Maryland Toleration Act, drafted by Lord Baltimore, provided: \"No person or persons...shall from henceforth be any waies troubled, molested or discountenanced for or in respect of his or her religion nor in the free exercise thereof.\" The Act allowed freedom of worship for all Trinitarian Christians in Maryland, but sentenced to death anyone who denied the divinity of Jesus. The Maryland Toleration Act was repealed during the Cromwellian Era with the assistance of Protestant assemblymen and a new law barring Catholics from openly practicing their religion was passed. In 1657, the Catholic Lord Baltimore regained control after making a deal with the colony's Protestants, and in 1658 the Act was again passed by the colonial assembly. This time, it would last more than thirty years, until 1692 when, after Maryland's Protestant Revolution of 1689, freedom of religion was again rescinded. In addition, in 1704, an Act was passed \"to prevent the growth of Popery in this Province\", preventing Catholics from holding political office. Full religious toleration would not be restored in Maryland until the American Revolution, when Maryland's Charles Carroll of Carrollton signed the American Declaration of Independence.\n\nRhode Island (1636), Connecticut (1636), New Jersey, and Pennsylvania (1682) founded by Protestants Roger Williams, Thomas Hooker, and William Penn, respectively combined the democratic form of government which had been developed by the Puritans and the Separatist Congregationalists in Massachusetts with religious freedom. These colonies became sanctuaries for persecuted religious minorities. Catholics and later on Jews also had full citizenship and free exercise of their religions. Williams, Hooker, Penn, and their friends were firmly convinced that freedom of conscience was the will of God. Williams gave the most profound argument: As faith is the free work of the Holy Spirit, it cannot be forced on a person. Therefore, strict separation of church and state has to be kept. Pennsylvania was the only colony that retained unlimited religious freedom until the foundation of the United States in 1776. It was the inseparable connection between democracy, religious freedom, and the other forms of freedom which became the political and legal basis of the new nation. In particular, Baptists and Presbyterians demanded the disestablishment of state churches Anglican and Congregationalist and the protection of religious freedom.\n\nReiterating Maryland's and the other colonies' earlier colonial legislation, the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, written in 1779 by Thomas Jefferson, proclaimed:\n\n[N]o man shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship, place, or ministry whatsoever, nor shall be enforced, restrained, molested, or burthened in his body or goods, nor shall otherwise suffer, on account of his religious opinions or belief; but that all men shall be free to profess, and by argument to maintain, their opinions in matters of religion, and that the same shall in no wise diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil capacities.\n\nThose sentiments also found expression in the First Amendment of the national constitution, part of the United States' Bill of Rights: \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...\"\n\nThe United States formally considers religious freedom in its foreign relations. The International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 established the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom which investigates the records of over 200 other nations with respect to religious freedom, and makes recommendations to submit nations with egregious records to ongoing scrutiny and possible economic sanctions. Many human rights organizations have urged the United States to be still more vigorous in imposing sanctions on countries that do not permit or tolerate religious freedom.\n\nFreedom of religion in Canada is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference. Canadian law goes further, requiring that private citizens and companies provide reasonable accommodation to those, for example, with strong religious beliefs. The Canadian Human Rights Act allows an exception to reasonable accommodation with respect to religious dress, such as a Sikh turban, when there is a \"bona fide\" occupational requirement, such as a workplace requiring a hard hat.\n\nOn 25 November 1981, the United Nations General Assembly passed the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief. This declaration recognizes freedom of religion as a fundamental human right in accordance with several other instruments of international law.\n\nHowever, the most substantial binding legal instruments that guarantee the right to freedom of religion that was passed by the international community is the Convention on the Rights of the Child which states in its Article 14: \"States Parties shall respect the right of the child to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. States Parties shall respect the rights and duties of the parents and, when applicable, legal guardians, to provide direction to the child in the exercise of his or her right in a manner consistent with the evolving capacities of the child. Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs may be subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law and are necessary to protect public safety, order, health or morals, or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others.\"\n\nIn 1993, the UN's human rights committee declared that article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights \"protects theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief.\" The committee further stated that \"the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief necessarily entails the freedom to choose a religion or belief, including the right to replace one's current religion or belief with another or to adopt atheistic views.\" Signatories to the convention are barred from \"the use of threat of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or non-believers\" to recant their beliefs or convert. Despite this, minority religions still are persecuted in many parts of the world.\n\nThe French philosopher Voltaire noted in his book on English society, \"Letters on the English\", that freedom of religion in a diverse society was deeply important to maintaining peace in that country. That it was also important in understanding why England at that time was more prosperous in comparison to the country's less religiously tolerant European neighbours. If one religion only were allowed in England, the Government would very possibly become arbitrary; if there were but two, the people would cut one another’s throats; but as there are such a multitude, they all live happy and in peace.Adam Smith, in his book \"The Wealth of Nations\" (using an argument first put forward by his friend and contemporary David Hume), states that in the long run it is in the best interests of society as a whole and the civil magistrate (government) in particular to allow people to freely choose their own religion, as it helps prevent civil unrest and reduces intolerance. So long as there are enough different religions and/or religious sects operating freely in a society then they are all compelled to moderate their more controversial and violent teachings, so as to be more appealing to more people and so have an easier time attracting new converts. It is this free competition amongst religious sects for converts that ensures stability and tranquillity in the long run.\n\nSmith also points out that laws that prevent religious freedom and seek to preserve the power and belief in a particular religion will, in the long run, only serve to weaken and corrupt that religion, as its leaders and preachers become complacent, disconnected and unpractised in their ability to seek and win over new converts:\n\nHinduism is one of the more broad-minded religions when it comes to religious freedom. It respects the right of everyone to reach God in their own way. Hindus believe in different ways to preach attainment of God and religion as a philosophy and hence respect all religions as equal. One of the famous Hindu sayings about religion is: \"Truth is one; sages call it by different names.\"\n\nJudaism includes multiple streams, such as Orthodox, Reform Judaism, Conservative Judaism, Reconstructionist Judaism, Jewish Renewal and Humanistic Judaism. However, Judaism also exists in many forms as a civilization, possessing characteristics known as peoplehood, rather than strictly as a religion. In the Torah, Jews are forbidden to practice idolatry and are commanded to root out pagan and idolatrous practices within their midst, including killing idolaters who sacrifice children to their gods, or engage in immoral activities. However, these laws are not adhered to anymore as Jews have usually lived among a multi-religious community.\n\nAfter the conquest of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judea by the Roman Empire, a Jewish state did not exist until 1948 with the establishment of the State of Israel. For over 1500 years Jewish people lived under pagan, Christian, Muslim, etc. rule. As such Jewish people in some of these states faced persecution. From the pogroms in Europe during the Middle Ages to the establishment of segregated Jewish ghettos during World War II. In the Middle East, Jews were categorised as dhimmi, non- Muslims permitted to live within a Muslim state. Even though given rights within a Muslim state, a dhimmi is still not equal to a Muslim within Muslim society, the same way non-Jewish Israeli citizens are not equal with Jewish citizens in modern-day Israel.\n\nPossibly because of this history of long term persecution, Jews in modernity have been among the most active proponents of religious freedom in the US and abroad and have founded and supported anti-hate institutions, including the Anti-Defamation League, the Southern Poverty Law Center and the American Civil Liberties Union. Jews are very active in supporting Muslim and other religious groups in the US against discrimination and hate crimes and most Jewish congregations throughout the US and many individual Jews participate in interfaith community projects and programs.\n\nThe State of Israel was established for the Jewish diaspora after World War II. While the Israel Declaration of Independence stresses religious freedom as a fundamental principle, in practice the current government, dominated by the ultra-Orthodox segment of the population has instituted legal barriers for those who do not practice Orthodox Judaism as Jews. However, as a nation state, Israel is very open towards other religions and religious practices, including public Muslim call to prayer chants and Christian prayer bells ringing in Jerusalem. Israel has been evaluated in research by the Pew organization as having \"high\" government restrictions on religion. The government recognizes only Orthodox Judaism in certain matters of personal status, and marriages can only be performed by religious authorities. The government provides the greatest funding to Orthodox Judaism, even though adherents represent a minority of citizens. Jewish women, including Anat Hoffman, have been arrested at the Western Wall for praying and singing while wearing religious garments the Orthodox feel should be reserved for men. Women of the Wall have organized to promote religious freedom at the Wall. In November 2014, a group of 60 non-Orthodox rabbinical students were told they would not be allowed to pray in the Knesset synagogue because it is reserved for Orthodox. Rabbi Joel Levy, director of the Conservative Yeshiva in Jerusalem, said that he had submitted the request on behalf of the students and saw their shock when the request was denied. He noted: \"paradoxically, this decision served as an appropriate end to our conversation about religion and state in Israel.\" MK Dov Lipman expressed the concern that many Knesset workers are unfamiliar with non-Orthodox and American practices and would view \"an egalitarian service in the synagogue as an affront.\" The non-Orthodox forms of Jewish practice function independently in Israel, except for these issues of praying at the Western Wall.\n\n According to the Catholic Church in the Vatican II document on religious freedom, \"Dignitatis Humanae\", \"the human person has a right to religious freedom\", which is described as \"immunity from coercion in civil society\". This principle of religious freedom \"leaves untouched traditional Catholic doctrine on the moral duty of men and societies toward the true religion.\" In addition, this right \"is to be recognized in the constitutional law whereby society is governed and thus it is to become a civil right.\"\n\nPrior to this, Pope Pius IX had written a document called the \"Syllabus of Errors. \"The Syllabus was made up of phrases and paraphrases from earlier papal documents, along with index references to them, and presented as a list of \"condemned propositions\". It does not explain why each particular proposition is wrong, but it cites earlier documents to which the reader can refer for the Pope's reasons for saying each proposition is false. Among the statements included in the Syllabus are: \"[It is an error to say that] Every man is free to embrace and profess that religion which, guided by the light of reason, he shall consider true\" (15); \"[It is an error to say that] In the present day it is no longer expedient that the Catholic religion should be held as the only religion of the State, to the exclusion of all other forms of worship\"; \"[It is an error to say that] Hence it has been wisely decided by law, in some Catholic countries, that persons coming to reside therein shall enjoy the public exercise of their own peculiar worship\".\n\nSome Orthodox Christians, especially those living in democratic countries, support religious freedom for all, as evidenced by the position of the Ecumenical Patriarchate. Many Protestant Christian churches, including some Baptists, Churches of Christ, Seventh-day Adventist Church and main line churches have a commitment to religious freedoms. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints also affirms religious freedom.\n\nHowever others, such as African scholar Makau Mutua, have argued that Christian insistence on the propagation of their faith to native cultures as an element of religious freedom has resulted in a corresponding denial of religious freedom to native traditions and led to their destruction. As he states in the book produced by the Oslo Coalition on Freedom of Religion or Belief, \"Imperial religions have necessarily violated individual conscience and the communal expressions of Africans and their communities by subverting African religions.\"\n\nIn their book \"Breaking India\", Rajiv Malhotra and Aravindan Neelakandan discussed the \"US Church\" funding activities in India, such as the popularly advertised campaigns to \"save\" poor children by feeding, clothing, and educating them, with the book arguing that the funds collected were being used not so much for the purposes indicated to sponsors, but for indoctrination and conversion activities. They suggest that India is the prime target of a huge enterprise a \"network\" of organizations, individuals, and churches that, they argue, seem intensely devoted to the task of creating a separatist identity, history, and even religion for the vulnerable sections of India. They suggest that this nexus of players includes not only church groups, government bodies, and related organizations, but also private think tanks and academics.\n\nJoel Spring has written about the Christianization of the Roman Empire:\n\nChristianity added new impetus to the expansion of empire. Increasing the arrogance of the imperial project, Christians insisted that the Gospels and the Church were the only valid sources of religious beliefs. Imperialists could claim that they were both civilizing the world and spreading the true religion. By the 5th century, Christianity was thought of as co-extensive with the \"Imperium romanum\". This meant that to be human, as opposed to being a natural slave, was to be \"civilized\" and Christian. Historian Anthony Pagden argues, \"just as the \"civitas\"; had now become coterminous with Christianity, so to be human to be, that is, one who was 'civil', and who was able to interpret correctly the law of nature one had now also to be Christian.\" After the fifteenth century, most Western colonialists rationalized the spread of empire with the belief that they were saving a barbaric and pagan world by spreading Christian civilization.\n\nConversion to Islam is simple, but Muslims are forbidden to convert from Islam to another religion. Certain Muslim-majority countries are known for their restrictions on religious freedom, highly favoring Muslim citizens over non-Muslim citizens. Other countries having the same restrictive laws tend to be more liberal when imposing them. Even other Muslim-majority countries are secular and thus do not regulate religious belief. \n\nIslamic theologians quote the Qur'an ( and , i.e., Sura Al-Kafirun) to show scriptural support for religious freedom.\n\n, referring to the war against Pagans during the Battle of Badr in Medina, indicates that Muslims are only allowed to fight against those who intend to harm them (right of self-defense) and that if their enemies surrender, they must also stop because God does not like those who transgress limits.\n\nIn Bukhari:V9 N316, Jabir ibn 'Abdullah narrated that a Bedouin accepted Islam and then when he got a fever he demanded that Muhammad to cancel his pledge (allow him to renounce Islam). Muhammad refused to do so. The Bedouin man repeated his demand once, but Muhammad once again refused. Then, he (the Bedouin) left Medina. Muhammad said, \"Madinah is like a pair of bellows (furnace): it expels its impurities and brightens and clear its good.\" In this narration, there was no evidence demonstrating that Muhammad ordered the execution of the Bedouin for wanting to renounce Islam.\n\nIn addition, , which is believed to be God's final revelation to Muhammad, states that Muslims are to fear God and not those who reject Islam, and states that one is accountable only for one's own actions. Therefore, it postulates that in Islam, in the matters of practising a religion, it does not relate to a worldly punishment, but rather these actions are accountable to God in the afterlife. Thus, this supports the argument against the execution of apostates in Islam.\n\nHowever, on the other hand, some Muslims support the practice of executing apostates who leave Islam, as in Bukhari:V4 B52 N260; \"The Prophet said, 'If a Muslim discards his religion and separates from the main body of Muslims, kill him.\n\nIn Iran, the constitution recognizes four religions whose status is formally protected: Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.\nThe constitution, however, also set the groundwork for the institutionalized persecution of Bahá'ís,\nwho have been subjected to arrests, beatings, executions, confiscation and destruction of property, and the denial of civil rights and liberties, and the denial of access to higher education. There is no freedom of conscience in Iran, as converting from Islam to any other religion is forbidden.\n\nIn Egypt, a 16 December 2006 judgment of the Supreme Administrative Council created a clear demarcation between recognized religions Islam, Christianity and Judaism and all other religious beliefs; no other religious affiliation is officially admissible. The ruling leaves members of other religious communities, including Bahá'ís, without the ability to obtain the necessary government documents to have rights in their country, essentially denying them of all rights of citizenship. They cannot obtain ID cards, birth certificates, death certificates, marriage or divorce certificates, and passports; they also cannot be employed, educated, treated in public hospitals or vote, among other things. See Egyptian identification card controversy.\n\nAmong the most contentious areas of religious freedom is the right of an individual to change or abandon his or her own religion (apostasy), and the right to evangelize individuals seeking to convince others to make such a change.\n\nOther debates have centered around restricting certain kinds of missionary activity by religions. Many Islamic states, and others such as China, severely restrict missionary activities of other religions. Greece, among European countries, has generally looked unfavorably on missionary activities of denominations others than the majority church and proselytizing is constitutionally prohibited.\n\nA different kind of critique of the freedom to propagate religion has come from non-Abrahamic traditions such as the African and Indian. African scholar Makau Mutua criticizes religious evangelism on the ground of cultural annihilation by what he calls \"proselytizing universalist faiths\" (Chapter 28: Proselytism and Cultural Integrity, p. 652):\n\nSome Indian scholars have similarly argued that the right to propagate religion is not culturally or religiously neutral.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, there have been debates regarding a bill on religious freedom that seeks to protect indigenous religious traditions from certain kinds of missionary activities. Debates have also occurred in various states of India regarding similar laws, particularly those that restrict conversions using force, fraud or allurement.\n\nIn 2008, Christian Solidarity Worldwide, a Christian human rights non-governmental organisation which specializes in religious freedom, launched an in-depth report on the human rights abuses faced by individuals who leave Islam for another religion. The report is the product of a year long research project in six different countries. It calls on Muslim nations, the international community, the UN and the international media to resolutely address the serious violations of human rights suffered by apostates.\n\nIn Islam, apostasy is called \"ridda\" (\"turning back\") and is considered to be a profound insult to God. A person born of Muslim parents that rejects Islam is called a \"\"murtad fitri\" (natural apostate), and a person that converted to Islam and later rejects the religion is called a \"murtad milli\"\" (apostate from the community).\n\nIn Islamic law (Sharia), the consensus view is that a male apostate must be put to death unless he suffers from a mental disorder or converted under duress, for example, due to an imminent danger of being killed. A female apostate must be either executed, according to Shafi'i, Maliki, and Hanbali schools of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh), or imprisoned until she reverts to Islam as advocated by the Sunni Hanafi school and by Shi'a scholars.\n\nIdeally, the one performing the execution of an apostate must be an imam. At the same time, all schools of Islamic jurisprudence agree that any Muslim can kill an apostate without punishment.\n\nHowever, while almost all scholars agree about the punishment, many disagree on the allowable time to retract the apostasy. Many scholars push this as far as allowing the apostate till he/she dies. Thus, practically making the death penalty just a theoretical statement/exercise. S. A. Rahman, a former Chief Justice of Pakistan, argues that there is no indication of the death penalty for apostasy in the Qur'an.\n\nReligious practice may also conflict with secular law, creating debates on religious freedom. For instance, even though polygamy is permitted in Islam, it is prohibited in secular law in many countries. This raises the question of whether prohibiting the practice infringes on the beliefs of certain Muslims. The US and India, both constitutionally secular nations, have taken two different views of this. In India, polygamy is permitted, but only for Muslims, under Muslim Personal Law. In the US, polygamy is prohibited for all. This was a major source of conflict between the early LDS Church and the United States until the Church amended its position on practicing polygamy.\n\nSimilar issues have also arisen in the context of the religious use of psychedelic substances by Native American tribes in the United States as well as other Native practices.\n\nIn 1955, Chief Justice of California Roger J. Traynor neatly summarized the American position on how freedom of religion cannot imply freedom from law: \"Although freedom of conscience and the freedom to believe are absolute, the freedom to act is not.\" But with respect to the religious use of animals within secular law and those acts, the US Supreme Court decision in the case of the \"Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah\" in 1993 upheld the right of Santeria adherents to practice ritual animal sacrifice, with Justice Anthony Kennedy stating in the decision: \"religious beliefs need not be acceptable, logical, consistent or comprehensible to others in order to merit First Amendment protection\" (quoted by Justice Kennedy from the opinion by Justice Burger in \"Thomas v. Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division\" ).\n\nIn 2015, Kim Davis, a Kentucky county clerk, refused to abide by the Supreme Court decision in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" legalizing Same-sex marriage in the United States. When she refused to issue marriage licenses, she became embroiled in the \"Miller v. Davis\" lawsuit. Her actions caused attorney and author Roberta Kaplan to state that \"Kim Davis is the clearest example of someone who wants to use a religious liberty argument to discriminate.\"\n\nIn 1962, the case of Engele v. Vitale went to court over the violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment resulting from a mandatory nondenominational prayer in New York public schools. The Supreme Court ruled in opposition to the state. \n\nIn 1963, the Supreme Court ruled on the case of Abington School District v. Schempp. Edward Schempp sued the school district in Abington over the Pennsylvania law which required students to hear and sometimes read portions of the bible for their daily education. The court ruled in favor of Schempp and the Pennsylvania law was overturned.\n\nIn 1968, the Supreme Court ruled on the case of Epperson v. Arkansas. Susan Epperson, a high school teacher in Arkansas sued over a violation of religious freedom. The state had a law banning the teaching of evolution and the school Epperson worked for had provided curriculum which contained evolutionary theory. Epperson had to choose between violating the law or losing her job. The Supreme Court ruled to overturn the Arkansas law because it was unconstitutional.\n\nThe law in Germany provides the term of \"religious majority\" (\"Religiöse Mündigkeit\") with a minimum age for minors to follow their own religious beliefs even if their parents don't share those or don't approve. Children 14 and older have the unrestricted right to enter or exit any religious community. Children 12 and older cannot be compelled to change to a different belief. Children 10 and older have to be heard before their parents change their religious upbringing to a different belief. There are similar laws in Austria and in Switzerland.\n\n27 October is International Religious Freedom Day, in commemoration of the execution of the Boston martyrs, a group of Quakers executed by the Puritans on Boston Common for their religious beliefs under the legislature of the Massachusetts Bay Colony between 1659–1661. The US proclaimed 16 January Religious Freedom Day.\n\nIn its 2011 annual report, the \"United States Commission on International Religious Freedom\" designated fourteen nations as \"countries of particular concern\". The commission chairman commented that these are nations whose conduct marks them as the world's worst religious freedom violators and human rights abusers. The fourteen nations designated were Burma, China, Egypt, Eritrea, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam. Other nations on the commission's watchlist include Afghanistan, Belarus, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Laos, Russia, Somalia, Tajikistan, Turkey, and Venezuela.\n\nThere are concerns about the restrictions on public religious dress in some European countries (including the Hijab, Kippah, and Christian cross). Article 18 of the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights limits restrictions on freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs to those necessary to protect public safety, order, health, or morals or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. Freedom of religion as a legal concept is related to, but not identical with, religious toleration, separation of church and state, or secular state (\"laïcité\").\n\nThe Pew Research Center has performed studies on international religious freedom between 2009 and 2015, compiling global data from 16 governmental and non-governmental organizations–including the United Nations, the United States State Department, and Human Rights Watch–and representing over 99.5 percent of the world's population. In 2009, nearly 70 percent of the world's population lived in countries classified as having heavy restrictions on freedom of religion. This concerns restrictions on religion originating from government prohibitions on free speech and religious expression as well as social hostilities undertaken by private individuals, organisations and social groups. Social hostilities were classified by the level of communal violence and religion-related terrorism.\n\nWhile most countries provided for the protection of religious freedom in their constitutions or laws, only a quarter of those countries were found to fully respect these legal rights in practice. In 75 countries governments limit the efforts of religious groups to proselytise and in 178 countries religious groups must register with the government. In 2013, Pew classified 30% of countries as having restrictions that tend to target religious minorities, and 61% of countries have social hostilities that tend to target religious minorities.\n\nThe countries in North and South America reportedly had some of the lowest levels of \"government\" and \"social\" restrictions on religion, while The Middle East and North Africa were the regions with the highest. Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Iran were the countries that top the list of countries with the \"overall\" highest levels of restriction on religion. Topping the Pew government restrictions index were Saudi Arabia, Iran, Uzbekistan, China, Egypt, Burma, Maldives, Eritrea, Malaysia and Brunei.\n\nOf the world's 25 most populous countries, Iran, Egypt, Indonesia and Pakistan had the most restrictions, while Brazil, Japan, Italy, South Africa, the UK, and the US had some of the lowest levels, as measured by Pew.\n\nVietnam and China were classified as having high \"government\" restrictions on religion but were in the moderate or low range when it came to \"social\" hostilities. Nigeria, Bangladesh and India were high in \"social\" hostilities but moderate in terms of \"government\" actions.\n\nRestrictions on religion across the world increased between mid-2009 and mid-2010, according to a 2012 study by the Pew Research Center. Restrictions in each of the five major regions of the world increased—including in the Americas and sub-Saharan Africa, the two regions where overall restrictions previously had been declining. In 2010, Egypt, Nigeria, the Palestinian territories, Russia, and Yemen were added to the \"very high\" category of social hostilities. The five highest social hostility scores were for Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Iraq, and Bangladesh. In 2015, Pew published that social hostilities declined in 2013, but the harassment of Jews increased.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2873251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2873251", "title": "Gender of God", "text": "Gender of God\n\nThe gender of God can be viewed as a literal or as an allegorical aspect of a deity. In polytheistic religions, gods are more likely to have literal sexes which would enable them to interact with each other, and even with humans, in a sexual way.\n\nIn most monotheistic religions, one cannot apply a gender to God in the usual sense, as God's attributes cannot be compared to those of any other being. Thus, the idea of a \"divine gender\" is ultimately considered an analogy, used by humans in order to better relate to the concept of God, with no sexual connotation.\n\nAlthough God is an intangible spirit in many religions and therefore is thought to have no gender, debate over their \"actual\" sex nevertheless has passionately raged in recent decades. The preponderance of references to God in both the Old and New Testaments are in the context of a masculine reference, often \"Father\". However, there are a significant number of feminine allegorical references to God, most often in some maternal role.\n\nGod is usually figuratively imagined in male terms in Biblical sources, with female analogy in , , and ; a mother in , , , , ; and a mother hen in and .\n\nAlthough the gender of God in Judaism is referred to in the Tanakh with masculine imagery and grammatical forms, traditional Jewish philosophy does not attribute the concept of sex to God, but does attribute gender. At times, Jewish aggadic literature and Jewish mysticism do treat God as gendered. The ways in which God is gendered have also changed across time, with some modern Jewish thinkers viewing God as outside of the gender binary.\n\nMost Christian groups conceive of God as Triune, having the belief that God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are distinct persons, but one being that is wholly God.\n\nGod the Son (Jesus Christ), having been incarnated as a human man, is clearly masculine. Classical western philosophy believes that God lacks a literal sex because it would be impossible for God to have a body (a prerequisite for sex). However, Classical western philosophy states that God should be referred to (in most contexts) as masculine by analogy. It justifies this by pointing to God's relationship with the world as begetter of the world and revelation (i.e. analogous to an active instead of receptive role in sexual intercourse). Others interpret God as neither male nor female.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church #239 specifically states that \"God is neither man nor woman: he is God\".\n\nIn contrast to most other Christian denominations, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) teaches that God the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit are physically distinct while being one in purpose. The LDS Church also teaches that God the Father is married to a divine woman, referred to as \"Heavenly Mother\". Humans are considered to be spirit children of these heavenly parents.\n\nIn Hebrew language, in rabbinic literature, the divine presence of God, the Holy Spirit, the Shekhinah is feminine.\n\nThe New Testament also refers to the Holy Spirit as masculine in a number of places, where the masculine Greek word \"Paraclete\" occurs, for \"Comforter\", most clearly in the Gospel of John, chapters 14 to 16. These texts were particularly significant when Christians were debating whether the New Testament teaches that the Holy Spirit is a fully divine person, or some kind of \"force\". All major English Bible translations have retained the masculine pronoun for the Spirit, as in John 16:13. Although it has been noted that in the original Greek, in some parts of John's Gospel, the neuter Greek word for \"it\" is also used for the Spirit.\n\nThe oneness of God is of primary importance in the Quran and Islam. In Qur'an, Allah is most often referred to with the pronouns \"Hu\" or \"Huwa\", and although these are commonly translated as \"him\", they can also be translated gender-neutrally, as \"them\". This is also true of the feminine equivalent, \"Hiya\". Qur'an 112:3–4 states: \"He begets not, nor is He begotten. And none is like Him [Them].\"\nOther references include the first person pronoun, and the relative pronoun \"ma\" (\"that which\"), as in the phrase \"the heavens and that which created them\" (Qur'an 91:5).\n\nIn Hinduism, there are diverse approaches to conceptualizing God and gender. Many Hindus focus upon impersonal Absolute (Brahman) which is genderless. Other Hindu traditions conceive God as androgynous (both female and male), alternatively as either male or female, while cherishing gender henotheism, that is without denying the existence of other Gods in either gender.\n\nThe Shakti tradition conceives of God as a female. Other Bhakti traditions of Hinduism have both male and female gods. In ancient and medieval Indian mythology, each masculine deva of the Hindu pantheon is partnered with a feminine who is often a devi.\n\nThe oldest of the Hindu scriptures is the Rigveda (2nd millennium BC). The first word of the Rigveda is the name Agni, the god of fire, to whom many of the vedic hymns are addressed, along with Indra the warrior. Agni and Indra are both male divinities.\n\nThe Rigveda refers to a creator (Hiranyagarbha or Prajapati), distinct from Agni and Indra. This creator is identified with Brahma (not to be confused with Brahman, the first cause), born of Vishnu's navel, in later scriptures. Hiranyagarbha and Prajapati are male divinities, as is Brahma (who has a female consort, Saraswati).\n\nThere are many other gods in the Rigveda.\nThey are \"not simple forces of nature\", and possess \"complex character and their own mythology\".\nThey include goddesses of water (Āpaḥ) and dawn (Uṣas), and the complementary pairing of Father Heaven and Mother Earth.\nHowever, they are all \"subservient to the abstract, but active positive 'force of truth'\" (Rta),\n\"which pervades the universe and all actions of the gods and humans.\"\nThis force is sometimes mediated or represented by moral gods (Āditya such as Varuṇa) or even Indra.\nThe Āditya are male and Rta is personified as masculine in later scriptures (see also Dharma).\n\nIn some Hindu philosophical traditions, God is depersonalized as the quality-less Nirguna Brahman, the fundamental life force of the universe. However, theism itself is central to Hinduism.\n\nWhile many Hindus focus upon God in the neutral form, Brahman being of neuter gender grammatically, there are prominent Hindu traditions that conceive God as female, even as the source of the male form of God, such as the Shakta denomination. Hinduism, especially of the Samkhya school, views the creation of the cosmos as the result of the play of two radically distinct principles: the feminine matter (Prakriti) and the masculine spirit (Purusha). Prakriti is the primordial matter which is present before the cosmos becomes manifest. Prakriti is seen as being \"the power of nature, both animate and inanimate. As such, nature is seen as dynamic energy\" (Rae, 1994). Prakriti is originally passive, immobile and pure potentiality by nature . Only through her contact with the kinetic Purusha she unfolds into the diverse forms before us. The idea of Prakriti/Purusha leads to the concept of the Divine Consort. Almost every deva of the Hindu pantheon has a feminine consort (devi).\n\nThe Guru Granth consistently refers to God as \"He\" and \"Father\". However, it also says that God is indescribable. Thus, God in Sikhism has no gender. The Akal Purakh (\"Timeless Being\") is referred to as one of the gender, simply because the Granth is written in north Indian Indo-Aryan languages (mixture of Punjabi and dialects of Hindi) which have no neutral gender.\n\nIt is described as energy that prevails throughout the universe.\n\nAnimist religions are common among oral societies, many of which still exist in the 21st century. Typically, natural forces and shaman spiritual guides feature in these religions, rather than fully fledged personal divinities with established personalities. It is in polytheism that such deities are found. Animist religions often, but not always, attribute gender to spirits considered to permeate the world and its events. Polytheistic religions, however, almost always attribute gender to their gods, though a few notable divinities are associated with various forms of epicene characteristics—gods that manifest alternatingly as male and female, gods with one male and one female \"face\", and gods whose most distinctive characteristic is their unknown gender.\n\nCarol P. Christ is the author of the widely reprinted essay \"Why Women Need the Goddess\", which argues in favor of the concept of there having been an ancient religion of a supreme goddess. This essay was presented as the keynote address to an audience of over 500 at the \"Great Goddess Re-emerging\" conference at the University of Santa Cruz in the spring of 1978, and was first published in \"Heresies: The Great Goddess Issue\" (1978), pgs. 8-13. Carol P. Christ also co-edited the classic feminist religion anthologies \"Weaving the Visions: New Patterns in Feminist Spirituality\" (1989) and \"Womanspirit Rising\" (1979/1989); the latter included her essay \"Why Women Need the Goddess\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35885473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35885473", "title": "Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia", "text": "Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia\n\nThe Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia is the most senior and most influential Muslim religious and legal authority in Saudi Arabia. The holder of the position is appointed by the King. The Grand Mufti is the head of the Permanent Committee for Islamic Research and Issuing Fatwas.\n\nThe Grand Mufti is the most senior religious authority in the country. His main role is to give opinions (\"fatwas\") on legal matters and on social affairs. The Saudi court system is heavily influenced by the opinions of the Grand Mufti.\n\nThe office was created in 1953 by King Abdul Aziz with the appointment of Muhammad ibn Ibrahim Al ash-Sheikh. Usually, the office of the Grand Mufti has been filled by a member of the Al ash-Sheikh (the descendants of Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab) In fact, there has only ever been one Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia who was not an Al ash-Sheikh. In 1969, King Faisal abolished the office of Grand Mufti and replaced it with a Ministry of Justice. The position was restored in 1993 with the appointment of Abdul Aziz bin Abdullah bin Baz. The current mufti Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdullah Al Shaykh was appointed in 1999 by King Fahd after the death of Ibn Baz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1787586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1787586", "title": "Great Work", "text": "Great Work\n\nThe term Great Work (magnum opus) is a term used in Hermeticism and in certain occult traditions and religions such as Thelema. The Great Work signifies the spiritual path towards self-transcendence in its entirety. This is the process of bringing unconscious complexes into the conscious awareness, in order to integrate them back into oneself. Accomplishing the Great Work, symbolized as the creation of the Philosopher's Stone, represents the culmination of the spiritual path, the attainment of enlightenment, or the rescue of the human soul from the unconscious forces which bind it.\n\nEliphas Levi (1810–1875), one of the first modern ceremonial magicians and inspiration for the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, discussed the Great Work at length, expanding it from the purely alchemical towards the more spiritual:\nFurthermore, there exists in nature a force which is immeasurably more powerful than steam, and by means of which a single man, who knows how to adapt and direct it, might upset and alter the face of the world. This force was known to the ancients; it consists in a universal agent having equilibrium for its supreme law, while its direction is concerned immediately with the great arcanum of transcendental magic... This agent...is precisely that which the adepts of the middle ages denominated the first matter of the Great Work. The Gnostics represented it as the fiery body of the Holy Spirit; it was the object of adoration in the secret rites of the Sabbath and the Temple, under the hieroglyphic figure of Baphomet or the Androgyne of Mendes.\nHe further defined it as such:\n\nThe Great Work is, before all things, the creation of man by himself, that is to say, the full and entire conquest of his faculties and his future; it is especially the perfect emancipation of his will.\nThe famous Alexandrian alchemist Zosimos described the purpose of alchemy as the perfection of the alchemist such that they could come into contact with the divinity within themselves, which in alchemy is represented as the Philosopher's Stone. In daoist alchemy, the accomplishment of the Great Work is called the cultivation of the elixir, and deals with the same idea, which is realization of the innate divine nature within. The daoist alchemical process is meant to take the practitioner from a state of doing to a state of non-doing, in which they can realize their own divine nature. This divine nature is called the Great Ultimate, which signifies a complete totality which lacks nothing and contains everything. In western alchemy, the Great Ultimate is symbolized by the Ouroboros, a snake eating its own tail. This symbol shows the infinite nature of the divine, which has no beginning or end and is in constant change but never loses or gains anything. The path to attainment of the Great Work, or union with the Great Ultimate is described through alchemical metaphor. The physical techniques of transmuting metals, dyes, and alloys in alchemical texts serve as an allegory for internal, psychological processes. The alchemical idea that a metal must be reduced to its most basic form in order to be transmuted into gold is an allegory for the psychological idea that the rigid personality must be broken down to its basic form in order for any transformation of the personality to occur. This idea of first breaking something down and then reconstructing it is also described by the alchemical maxim \"Solve et Coagula\", meaning dissolve and recombine, and it serves as a central tenant of the Great Work. The idea is further reinforced by the alchemical image of the phoenix, which dies and then is reborn from its ashes. Alchemy is known as the art of transformation, and this formula of \"Solve et Coagula\" is the underlying formula of transformation. This deals with transformation in the physical world, but it also deals with the transformation of the self. The \"Solve\" stage of the work of the transformation of the self occurs when the conscious ego meets the unconscious. The unconscious is much larger than the ego, and because of this the ego begins to dissolve. During this stage of the inner alchemical work, the old, rigid personality ceases to function when it is met with the vastness of the unconscious. This experience can lead to great confusion and fear, in what the alchemists call the phase of \"Nigredo\", or blackness. This period of blackness during which the ego is dissolved is painful, but necessary for any growth to occur. After the ego is broken down through confronting its shadow, it can then be re-formed in a new way, which is represented by the alchemical process \"Coagula.\"\n\nThere is another perspective of the path to the accomplishment of the Great Work. Whereas the previous perspective deals with duality as a vehicle to transformation of the personality, this perspective deals with the transcendence of duality altogether, in order to unite with the Great Ultimate. The daoists say that the perfection of the Great Ultimate, whose nature is unity, is obscured by Yin and Yang, or duality. Thus, the accomplishment of the Great Work (which is the restoration of the wholeness of the Great Ultimate), occurs from the unification of opposite principles, which are represented in daoism as Yin and Yang. This same idea of the uniting of opposite principles is seen in western alchemy as well, where the attainment of the Great Work is described as the unification between the sulphur (which represents the masculine principle) and salt (which represents the feminine principle). It is also seen in yogic science as well, which describes the unification of the masculine channel for life energy, called the pingala, with the feminine channel, called the ida. In western alchemy this unification of opposites is called \"coniunctio\", which is the alchemical marriage, or union of opposite principles which leads to the creation of the Philosopher's Stone, a metaphor for accomplishing the Great Work. The esoteric, internal meaning of uniting opposites lies in the transcendence of perceived dualities within the psyche. In ego formation, some things are rejected, and pushed into the unconscious, whereas others are accepted and allowed to be a part of the conscious self. Because of this, a split in the psyche occurs, where the Self becomes dissociated from its shadow. The alchemical process is the process of undoing this split by integrating what has become made unconscious with the conscious self, and thus becoming whole. This is the essence of self-realization - the realization that all is a part of the self, and there is nothing outside of the self. It only appears that way because it has been made unconscious. This is the essence of alchemy - the unification of the conscious with the unconscious so that the self can become whole.\n\nWithin Thelema, the Great Work is generally defined as those spiritual practices leading to the mystical union of the Self and the All. Its founder, author and occultist Aleister Crowley re-iterated the idea of the unification of opposites, saying in his book \"Magick Without Tears\":\n\nThe Great Work is the uniting of opposites. It may mean the uniting of the soul with God, of the microcosm with the macrocosm, of the female with the male, of the ego with the non-ego.\"\nAlthough the Great Work can describe specifically the moment of union between the self and the divine, it can also deal with the spiritual process in its entirety. Crowley also speaks on the Great Work as the conscious process of spiritual growth. He Crowley described his own personal Great Work in the introduction to \"Magick (Book 4)\":\nIn my third year at Cambridge, I devoted myself consciously to the Great Work, understanding thereby the Work of becoming a Spiritual Being, free from the constraints, accidents, and deceptions of material existence.\nThe aspect of conscious devotion to the Great Work is very important. By purposefully, consciously turning inward and choosing to pursue self-realization, the seeker seals themself in their very own \"vas hermeticum\", their very own alchemical vessel. This attitude of deliberate turning within is necessary for the Great Work. By consciously devoting oneself to the Great Work, and therefore sealing oneself within one's own \"vas hermeticum\", the inner heat of psychic struggle which is generated from this aids in the dissolution of ego boundaries and the integration of what is unconscious.\n\nWithin the system of the A∴A∴ magical Order the Great Work of the Probationer Grade is considered to be the pursuit of self-knowledge to, as Crowley said in \"The Confessions of Aleister Crowley\", \"obtain the knowledge of the nature and powers of my own being.\" However, Crowley continues, the Great Work should also be something that is integrated into the daily life of all:\n\nI insist that in private life men should not admit their passions to be an end, indulging them and so degrading themselves to the level of the other animals, or suppressing them and creating neuroses. I insist that every thought, word and deed should be consciously devoted to the service of the Great Work. 'Whatsoever ye do, whether ye eat or drink, do all to the glory of God'.\nAlthough Crowley often discussed the idea of \"succeeding\" or \"accomplishing\" in the Great Work, he also recognized that the process is ongoing. From his \"Little Essays Toward Truth\":\n\nThe Quest of the Holy Grail, the Search for the Stone of the Philosophers—by whatever name we choose to call the Great Work—is therefore endless. Success only opens up new avenues of brilliant possibility. Yea, verily, and Amen! the task is tireless and its joys without bounds; for the whole Universe, and all that in it is, what is it but the infinite playground of the Crowned and Conquering Child, of the insatiable, the innocent, the ever-rejoicing Heir of Space and Eternity, whose name is MAN?This idea of an endless Great Work is also seen within classic alchemical perspectives. The idea of circumambulation, represented by the Ouroboros (a snake swallowing its own tail), suggests an endless cyclical process of first dissolving and then re-creating the personality, refining it each time. This idea is also seen in depth psychology as it is related to alchemy, where the Self continually, cyclically faces what it has repressed in order to integrate what has been repressed into itself.\n\nThe term also appears in the Benediction at the end of Crowley's Gnostic Mass, where the Priest blesses the congregation with the words:\nThe LORD bring you to the accomplishment of your true Wills, the Great Work, the Summum Bonum, True Wisdom and Perfect Happiness.\n"}
{"id": "2455406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2455406", "title": "Halo (religious iconography)", "text": "Halo (religious iconography)\n\nA halo (from Greek , \"halōs\"; also known as a nimbus, aureole, glory, or gloriole) is a crown of light rays, circle or disk of light that surrounds a person in art. They have been used in the iconography of many religions to indicate holy or sacred figures, and have at various periods also been used in images of rulers or heroes. In the sacred art of Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome, Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam and Christianity, among other religions, sacred persons may be depicted with a halo in the form of a circular glow, or flames in Asian art, around the head or around the whole body—this last one is often called a mandorla. Halos may be shown as almost any color or combination of colors, but are most often depicted as golden, yellow or white when representing light or red when representing flames.\n\nHomer describes a more-than-natural light around the heads of heroes in battle. Depictions of Perseus in the act of slaying Medusa, with lines radiating from his head, appear on a white-ground toiletry box in the Louvre and on a slightly later red-figured vase in the style of Polygnotos, ca. 450-30 BC, in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. On painted wares from south Italy, radiant lines or simple haloes appear on a range of mythic figures: Lyssa, a personification of madness; a sphinx; a sea demon; and Thetis, the sea-nymph who was mother to Achilles. The Colossus of Rhodes was a statue of the sun-god Helios and had his usual radiate crown (copied for the Statue of Liberty). Hellenistic rulers are often shown wearing radiate crowns that seem clearly to imitate this effect.\n\nFurther afield, Sumerian religious literature frequently speaks of \"melam\" (loaned into Akkadian as \"melammu\"), a \"brilliant, visible glamour which is exuded by gods, heroes, sometimes by kings, and also by temples of great holiness and by gods' symbols and emblems.\"\n\nThe halo and the aureola have been widely used in Indian art, particularly in Buddhist iconography where it has appeared since at least the 1st century AD; the Kushan Bimaran casket in the British Museum is dated 60AD (at least between 30BC and 200AD). The rulers of the Kushan Empire were perhaps the earliest to give themselves haloes on their coins, and the nimbus in art may have originated in Central Asia and spread both east and west.\n\nIn Chinese and Japanese Buddhist art the halo has also been used since the earliest periods in depicting the image of Amitabha Buddha and others. Tibetan Buddhism uses haloes and aureoles of many types, drawing from both Indian and Chinese traditions, extensively in statues and Thangka paintings of Buddhist saints such as Milarepa and Padmasambhava and deities. Different coloured haloes have specific meanings: orange for monks, green for the Buddha and other more elevated beings, and commonly figures have both a halo for the head, and another circular one for the body, the two often intersecting somewhere around the head or neck. Thin lines of gold often radiate outwards or inwards from the rim of the halo, and sometimes a whole halo is made up of these. \n\nIn India the head halo is called \"Prabhamandala\" or \"Siras-cakra\", while the full body halo is \"Prabhavali\". Elaborate haloes and especially aureoles also appear in Hindu sculpture, where they tend to develop into architectural frames in which the original idea can be hard to recognise. Theravada Buddhism and Jainism did not use the halo for many centuries, but later adopted it, though less thoroughly than other religious groups.\nIn Asian art, the nimbus is often imagined as consisting not just of light, but of flames. This type seems to first appear in Chinese bronzes of which the earliest surviving examples date from before 450. The depiction of the flames may be very formalized, as in the regular little flames on the ring aureole surrounding many Chola bronzes and other classic Hindu sculptures of divinities, or very prominent, as with the more realistic flames, and sometimes smoke, shown rising to a peak behind many Tibetan Buddhist depictions of the \"wrathful aspect\" of divinities, and also in Persian miniatures of the classic period. This type is also very rarely found, and on a smaller scale, in medieval Christian art. Sometimes a thin line of flames rise up from the edges of a circular halo in Buddhist examples. In Tibetan paintings the flames are often shown as blown by a wind, usually from left to right.\n\nHalos are found in Islamic art from various places and periods, especially in Persian miniatures and Moghul and Ottoman art influenced by them. Flaming halos derived from Buddhist art surround angels, and similar ones are often seen around Muhammad and other sacred human figures. From the early 17th century, plainer round haloes appear in portraits of Mughal Emperors and subsequently Rajput and Sikh rulers; despite the more local precedents art historians believe the Mughals took the motif from European religious art, though it expresses a Persian idea of the God-given charisma of kingship that is far older. The Ottomans avoided using halos for the sultans, despite their title as Caliph, and they are only seen on Chinese emperors if they are posing as Buddhist religious figures, as some felt entitled to do.\n\nThe halo represents an aura or the glow of sanctity which was conventionally drawn encircling the head. It first appeared in the culture of Hellenistic Greece and Rome, possibly related to the Zoroastrian \"hvarena\" – \"glory\" or \"divine lustre\" – which marked the Persian kings, and may have been imported with Mithraism. Though Roman paintings have largely disappeared, save some fresco decorations, the haloed figure remains fresh in Roman mosaics. In a 2nd-century AD Roman floor mosaic preserved at Bardo, Tunisia, a haloed Poseidon appears in his chariot drawn by hippocamps. Significantly, the triton and nereid who accompany the sea-god are not haloed.\n\nIn a late 2nd century AD floor mosaic from Thysdrus, El Djem, (\"illustration\") Apollo Helios is identified by his effulgent halo. Another haloed Apollo in mosaic, from Hadrumentum, is in the museum at Sousse. The conventions of this representation, head tilted, lips slightly parted, large-eyed, curling hair cut in locks grazing the neck, were developed in the 3rd century BC to depict Alexander the Great (Bieber 1964; Yalouris 1980). Sometime after this mosaic was executed, the Emperor began to be depicted with a halo, which was not abandoned when they became Christian; initially Christ only had one when shown on a throne as Christ in Majesty.\n\nThe halo was incorporated into Early Christian art sometime in the 4th century with the earliest iconic images of Christ, initially the only figure shown with one (together with his symbol, the Lamb of God). Initially the halo was regarded by many as a representation of the \"Logos\" of Christ, his divine nature, and therefore in very early (before 500) depictions of Christ before his Baptism by John he tends not to be shown with a halo, it being a matter of debate whether his \"Logos\" was innate from conception (the Orthodox view), or acquired at Baptism (the Nestorian view). At this period he is also shown as a child or youth in \"Baptisms\", though this may be a hieratic rather than an age-related representation.\n\nA cruciform halo, that is to say a cross within, or extending beyond, a halo is used to represent the persons of the Holy Trinity, especially Jesus, and especially in medieval art. In Byzantine and Orthodox images, inside each of the bars of the cross in Christ's halo is one of the Greek letters Ο Ω Ν, making up —\"ho ōn\", literally, \"the Existing One\"—indicating the divinity of Jesus. At least in later Orthodox images, each bar of this cross is composed of three lines, symbolising the dogmas of the Trinity, the oneness of God and the two natures of Christ.\n\nIn mosaics in Santa Maria Maggiore (432-40) the juvenile Christ has a four-armed cross either on top of his head in the radius of the nimbus, or placed above the radius, but this is unusual. In the same mosaics the accompanying angels have haloes (as, in a continuation of the Imperial tradition, does King Herod), but not Mary and Joseph. Occasionally other figures have crossed haloes, such as the seven doves representing the Seven gifts of the Holy Spirit in the 11th century Codex Vyssegradensis Tree of Jesse (where Jesse and Isaiah also have plain haloes, as do the Ancestors of Christ in other miniatures).\n\nLater, triangular haloes are sometimes given to God the Father to represent the Trinity. When he is represented by a hand emerging from a cloud, this may be given a halo.\n\nPlain round haloes are typically used to signify saints, the Virgin Mary, Old Testament prophets, angels, symbols of the Four Evangelists, and some other figures. Byzantine emperors and empresses were often shown with them in compositions including saints or Christ, however the haloes were outlined only. This was copied by Ottonian and later Russian rulers. Old Testament figures become less likely to have haloes in the West as the Middle Ages go on.\n\nBeatified figures, not yet canonised as saints, are sometimes shown in medieval Italian art with linear rays radiating out from the head, but no circular edge of the nimbus defined; later this became a less obtrusive form of halo that could be used for all figures. Mary has, especially from the Baroque period onwards, a special form of halo in a circle of twelve stars, derived from her identification as the Woman of the Apocalypse.\n\nSquare haloes were sometimes used for the living in donor portraits of about 500-1100 in Italy; Most surviving ones are of Popes and others in mosaics in Rome, including the Episcopa Theodora head of the mother of the Pope of the day. They seem merely an indication of a contemporary figure, as opposed to the saints usually accompanying them, with no real implication of future canonization. A late example is of Desiderius, Abbot of Monte Cassino, later Pope, from a manuscript of 1056–86; Pope Gregory the Great had himself depicted with one, according to the 9th-century writer of his \"vita\", John, deacon of Rome. A figure who may represent Moses in the 3rd century Dura Europos Synagogue has one, where no round halos are found. Personifications of the Virtues are sometimes given hexagonal haloes. Scalloped haloes, sometimes just appearing as made of radiating bars, are found in the manuscripts of the Carolingian \"Ada School\", such as the Ada Gospels.\n\nThe whole-body image of radiance is sometimes called the 'aureole' or \"glory\"; it is shown radiating from all round the body, most often of Christ or Mary, occasionally of saints (especially those reported to have been seen surrounded by one). Such an aureola is often a mandorla (\"almond-shaped\" vesica piscis), especially around Christ in Majesty, who may well have a halo as well. In depictions of the Transfiguration of Jesus a more complicated shape is often seen, especially in the Eastern Orthodox tradition, as in the famous 15th century icon in the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow.\n\nWhere gold is used as a background in miniatures, mosaics and panel paintings, the halo is often formed by inscribing lines in the gold leaf, and may be decorated in patterns (diapering) within the outer radius, and thus becomes much less prominent. The gold leaf inside the halo may also be burnished in a circular manner, so as to produce the effect of light radiating out from the subject's head. In the early centuries of its use, the Christian halo may be in most colours (though black is reserved for Judas, Satan and other evil figures) or multicoloured; later gold becomes standard, and if the entire background is not gold leaf, the halo itself usually will be.\n\nWith increasing realism in painting, the halo came to be a problem for artists. So long as they continued to use the old compositional formulae which had been worked out to accommodate haloes, the problems were manageable, but as Western artists sought more flexibility in composition, this ceased to be the case. In free-standing medieval sculpture, the halo was already shown as a flat disk above or behind the head. When perspective came to be considered essential, painters also changed the halo from an aura surrounding the head, always depicted as though seen full-on, to a flat golden disk or ring that appeared in perspective, floating above the heads of the saints, or vertically behind, sometimes transparent. This can be seen first in Giotto, who still gives Christ the cruciform halo which began to be phased out by his successors. In northern Europe the radiant halo, made up of rays like a sunburst, came into fashion in French painting around the end of the 14th century.\n\nIn the early 15th century Jan van Eyck and Robert Campin largely abandoned their use, although some other Early Netherlandish artists continued to use them. In Italy at around the same time, Pisanello used them if they did not clash with one of the enormous hats he liked to paint. Generally they lasted longer in Italy, although often reduced to a thin gold band depicting the outer edge of the nimbus, usual for example in Giovanni Bellini. Christ began to be shown with a plain halo.\nFra Angelico, himself a monk, was a conservative as far as haloes are concerned, and some of his paintings demonstrate the problems well, as in several of his more crowded compositions, where they are shown as solid gold disks on the same plane as the picture surface, it becomes difficult to prevent them obstructing other figures. At the same time they were useful in crowded narrative scenes for distinguishing the main, identifiable, figures from the mass of a crowd. Giotto's Lamentation of Christ from the Scrovegni Chapel has eight figures with haloes and ten without, to whom the viewer knows they are not meant to attach a specific identity. In the same way, a \"Baptism of Christ\" by Perugino in Vienna gives neither Christ nor John the Baptist haloes, as sufficiently recognisable without them, but a saint in the background, not usually present in this scene, has a ring halo to denote his status.\n\nIn the High Renaissance, even most Italian painters dispensed with haloes altogether, but in the Church's reaction to the Protestant Reformation, that culminated in the decrees on images of the Council of Trent of 1563, their use was mandated by clerical writers on religious art such as Molanus and Saint Carlo Borromeo. Figures were placed where natural light sources would highlight their heads, or instead more discreet quasi-naturalistic flickering or glowing light was shown around the head of Christ and other figures (perhaps pioneered by Titian in his late period). Rembrandt's etchings, for example, show a variety of solutions of all of these types, as well as a majority with no halo effect at all. The disk halo was rarely used for figures from classical mythology in the Renaissance, although they are sometimes seen, especially in the classical radiant form, in Mannerist and Baroque art.\n\nBy the 19th century haloes have become unusual in Western mainstream art, although retained in iconic and popular images, and sometimes as a medievalising effect. When John Millais gives his otherwise realist \"St Stephen\" (1895) a ring halo, it seems rather surprising. In popular graphic culture, a simple ring has become the predominant representation of a halo since at least the late 19th century, as seen for example in the logo for the Simon Templar (\"The Saint\") series of novels and other adaptations.\n\nThe early Church Fathers expended much rhetorical energy on conceptions of God as a source of light; among other things this was because \"in the controversies in the 4th century over the consubstantiality of the Father and the Son, the relation of the ray to the source was the most cogent example of emanation and of distinct forms with a common substance\" – key concepts in the theological thought of the time.\n\nA more Catholic interpretation, less dualistic in its assumptions, is that the halo represents the light of divine grace suffusing the soul, which is perfectly united and in harmony with the physical body.\n\nIn the theology of the Eastern Orthodox Church, an icon is a \"window into heaven\" through which Christ and the Saints in heaven can be seen and communicated with. The gold background of the icon indicates that what is depicted is in heaven. The halo is a symbol of the Uncreated Light (Greek: Ἄκτιστον Φῶς) or grace of God shining forth through the icon. Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite in his \"Celestial Hierarchies\" speaks of the angels and saints being illuminated by the grace of God, and in turn illumining others.\n\nThe distinction between the alternative terms in English is rather unclear. The oldest term in English is \"glory\", the only one available in the Middle Ages, but now largely obsolete. It came from the French \"gloire\" which has much the same range of meanings as \"glory\". \"Gloriole\" does not appear in this sense until 1844, being a modern invention, as a diminutive, in French also. \"Halo\" is first found in English in this sense in 1646 (nearly a century after the optical or astronomical sense). Both \"halos\" and \"haloes\" may be used as plural forms, and halo may be used as a verb. Halo comes originally from the Greek for \"threshing-floor\" – a circular, slightly sloping area kept very clean, around which slaves or oxen walked to thresh the grain. In Greek, this came to mean the divine bright disk.\n\nNimbus means a cloud in Latin and is found as a divine cloud in 1616, whereas as \"a bright or golden disk surrounding the head\" it does not appear until 1727. The plural \"nimbi\" is correct but \"rare\"; \"nimbuses\" is not in the OED but sometimes used. \"Nimb\" is an obsolete form of the noun, but not a verb, except that the obsolete \"nimbated\", like the commoner \"nimbate\", means \"furnished with a nimbus\". It is sometimes preferred by art-historians, as sounding more technical than halo.\n\n\"Aureole\", from the Latin for \"golden\", has been used in English as a term for a gold crown, especially that traditionally considered the reward of martyrs, since the Middle Ages (OED 1220). But the first use recorded as a term for a halo is in 1848, very shortly after which matters were greatly complicated by the publication in 1851 of the English translation of Adolphe Napoléon Didron's important \"Christian Iconography: Or, The History of Christian Art in the Middle Ages\". This, by what the OED calls a \"strange blunder\", derived the word from the Latin \"aura\" as a diminutive, and also defined it as meaning a halo or glory covering the whole body, whilst saying that \"nimbus\" referred only to a halo around the head. This, according to the OED, reversed the historical usage of both words, but whilst Didron's diktat was \"not accepted in France\", the OED noted it had already been picked up by several English dictionaries, and influenced usage in English, which still seems to be the case, as the word \"nimbus\" is mostly found describing whole-body haloes, and seems to have also influenced \"gloriole\" in the same direction.\n\nThe only English term that unequivocally means a full-body halo, and cannot be used for a circular disk around the head is \"mandorla\", first occurring in 1883. However, this term, which is the Italian word for \"almond\", is usually reserved for the vesica piscis shape, at least in describing Christian art. In discussing Asian art, it is used more widely. Otherwise, there could be said to be an excess of words that could refer to either a head-disk or a full-body halo, and no word that clearly denotes a full-body halo that is not vesica piscis shaped. \"Halo\" by itself, according to recent dictionaries, means only a circle around the head, although Rhie and Thurman use the word also for circular full-body aureoles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47546147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47546147", "title": "Hindu Temple and Cultural Center of the Rockies", "text": "Hindu Temple and Cultural Center of the Rockies\n\nHindu Temple and Cultural Center of the Rockies in Denver, Colorado (Hindu Temple, Denver) is the major Hindu Temple in the Colorado and nearby region. The Hindu Society of Colorado was incorporated in 1984. During 1996-2015 the temple was located in a former church building in Littleton. The formally designed temple opened on July 3, 2015 with Prana Pratishtha on June 5–7, 2015. The temple now has 1,500 families as members. The temple is non-regional and non-sectarian.\n\nThe new 4.25 acre temple is located on a hill with a 360 degree view of the mountains and the plains. The main floor has a prayer hall with seven shrines: Shiva Parvati, Durga, Venkateshwara (Vishnu), Laxmi Narayan (Visnu), Rama & Sita, Radha & Krishna, and Saraswati. The deities were carved in marble at Jaipur, India, except for the Venkateswara granite image was carved at Tirupati. In the front granite Shiva-Linga with Nandi and an image of Ganesha. The shrines are surrounded by a parikrama. On the other side of the hall, there are smaller shrines for Hanumana, Jagannath (with Balram and Subhadra), Ayappa, and Subramanya (Kartikeya) with Devyani and Valli.\n\nThe lower level, when fully finished later this year, will have a large multi-purpose hall with a stage and a kitchen for preparation and serving of food. The hall opens to a patio. The hall will be used as a cultural center for the celebrations such as weddings. No alcohol, tobacco or meat is allowed, in accordance with temple conventions.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, planning meetings were held at the residences of Dr. Tripathi, Dr. Ahuja, Dr. Gangadharam, Dr. K.C. Gupta, Dr. Vedanthan, Drs. Sagar, Nawal Sharma, and Katharine Nanda. In 1985, the Hindu Temple and Cultural Center of the Rockies was incorporated with Ved Nanda, a professor of International Law at University of Denver as the president, and the Hindu Society of Colorado was merged in it. Initially a small house was purchased in Aurora, which could accommodate about 45 people. Kauai’s Hindu Monastery donated a Ganesh murti as the main deity for the Temple.\n\nIn 1996 a former church was purchased at Wadsworth Boulevard in 1996 and remodeled to serve as the temple. Some adjacent land was purchased for possible expansion, however the lot size was considered to be too small.\n\nIn 2007, 4.25 acres land land for the new temple was purchased for $500,000 in 2006 and the construction cost thus far has been about $4.5 million. Some of the donor families contributed more than $100,000. Professional contributors included the real-estate agent and the legal expert.\nPriests Acharya Kailash Chandra Upadhyaya (1998) and later Pandit Raghavendra Iyer (2006) were invited to serve.\n\nNine Hindu priests, seven of whom came from all over the USA, and two local ones, conducted the Prana Pratishtha (infusion of life) ceremonies. Hundreds of local Hindus from the Denver paerticipated in the official opening of the new temple.\n\nBoth Pandit Raghavendra Iyyer and then Kailash Chandra Upadyay retired from the temple in 2016. The HTCC invited applications from potential priests and developed a criteria based on skills in Sanskrit/English/Indian languages, Music, computing, and experience as a temple archak and a purohit for sanskaras in India/overseas. The new priests are Acharya Shiv Kumar Mishra and Pundit Deepak Raghunath.\n\nThe temple currently has a building loan of $2.25 million requiring a monthly mortgage payment of $13,600. The temple seeks to build a building fund of $200,000. which will allow the temple to refinance and significantly reduce the monthly payment. The temple still needs to construct a kitchen for the food distribution. A hall and stage are needed for temple programs and community celebrations such as weddings, birthdays, anniversaries.\n\nThe temple has instituted an advisory council with eight Legacy Donors (more than $100,000 total donation), thirteen sponsors (more than $25,000 donation), and 26 patrons (more than $10,000 donation). The Management Committee consists of thirteen individuals.\n\nThe temple is open for visitors Monday-Friday 09:30 AM – 01:30 PM and 05:30 PM – 08:30 PM. During it is open from 09:00 AM – 09:00 PM.\n\nAmong the many festivals in the Hindu calendar, there are the major celebrations held at the temple (exact dates are determined using the traditional Indian calendar): The daily schedule for each festival is determined separately.\n\nThe temple priests provide religious services to the yajamanas, both as the temple as well as in the nearby region. These include pujas, sankaras (such as Wedding) and functions such as Grahapravesh. The temple publishes a list of recommended donations and charges, the yajamanas may provide additional dakshina to the priests.\n\nThe temple provides facilities for community use. These include a learning center for teaching regional languages for children, a conference room (25 – 30 people) and a basement space for functions of up to 400 individuals.\n\nUnlike many other temples, Hindu Temple and Cultural Center of the Rockies made a deliberate decision to include diversity. Venkateshwar is Vishnu as represented in the Southern tradition at Tirupati, Laxmi Narayan is Vishnu as represented in the Northern tradition (see Laxminarayan Temple), Jagannatha is the presiding deity of Jagannath Temple, Puri which represents the Eastern Tradition. Ayappa is popular in Kerala and Subramanya (Murugan or Kartikeya) is popular in Tamil Nadu.\n\nWhile most devotees are Hindus of Indian origin, Hindus of other origins and non-Hindus are welcome at the temple.\n\nThe temple is located 7201 S. Potomac St. Centennial, Colorado, in Denver area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4332470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4332470", "title": "Horologion", "text": "Horologion\n\nThe Horologion (; Church Slavonic: Часocлoвъ, \"Chasoslov\", ) or Book of hours provides the fixed portions (Greek: , \"akolouthiai\") of the Divine Service or the daily cycle of services as used by the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches. Into this fixed framework of the services, are inserted numerous parts changing daily.\n\nIn its original sense, a \"horologion\" (Greek: ὠρολόγιον, \"the hour-teller\" from ὥρα \"hṓra\" \"hour\" and -λόγιον\"-logion\", \"teller\") or Latin \"horologium\" was any device or structure for keeping time, such as a sundial or the Tower of the Winds in Athens.\n\nThe Horologion is primarily a book for the use of the Reader and Chanters (as distinguished from the Euchologion, which contains the texts used by the Priest and Deacon). Several varieties of Horologia exist, the most complete of which is the Great Horologion (Greek: Ὡρολόγιον τò μέγα, \"Horologion to mega\"; Slavonic: Великий Часословъ, \"Velikij Chasoslov\", Romanian: \"Ceaslovul Mare\"). It contains the fixed portions of the Daily Office (Vespers, Compline (Great and Small), Midnight Office, Matins, the Little Hours, the Inter-Hours, Typica, Prayers before Meals). The parts for the Reader and Chanters are given in full, the Priest's and Deacon's parts are abbreviated. The Great Horologion will also contain a list of Saints commemorated throughout the year (with their Troparia and Kontakia), selected propers for Sundays, and moveable Feasts (from the Menaion, Triodion and Pentecostarion), and various Canons and other devotional services. The Great Horologion is most commonly used in Greek-speaking churches.\n\nVarious editions of the Horologion are usually shorter; still giving the fixed portions of the Daily Office in full, but with the other texts much more abbreviated (all of which are found in full in the other liturgical books). In addition, such texts often also contain Morning and Evening Prayers, the Order of Preparation for Holy Communion, and Prayers to be said after receiving Holy Communion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1900626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900626", "title": "Indult Catholic", "text": "Indult Catholic\n\nIndult Catholic was a traditionalist Catholic loaded term used from the early 21st century until 2007 as a pejorative label applied to conservative Catholics who attended only the licit celebrations of the Tridentine Mass in Latin according to the 1962 edition of the Roman Missal and regulated by the local bishop through an indult that conformed to the 1984 Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments norms in the ecclesiastical letter \"Quattuor abhinc annos\".\n\nThe Tridentine Mass was the normative usage of the Roman Rite Mass from the time of the Council of Trent until the liturgical reforms of the Second Vatican Council.\n\nWhen the Mass of Paul VI, the newer usage of the Roman rite of Mass, replaced the Tridentine Mass, the older usage of the Roman rite of Mass, , but prior to \"\", celebrets were issued by the Holy See to some priests permitting them to licitly celebrate the older usage, but bishops complained about this approach.\nIn 1971 Pope Paul VI permitted, in what is known as the Heenan or the Agatha Christie indult, local bishops in the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales to permit the occasional celebration of the older usage according to the 1967 modifications to the 1965 edition of the Roman Missal.\n\nIn 1984, the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments issued an indult to diocesan bishops, in \"\", which permitted the diocesan bishops to grant indults, under certain conditions, to churches and oratories permitting celebration of the older usage in Latin according to the 1962 edition.\n\nSome Traditionalist Catholics practise their faith outside the discipline of the Catholic Church and reject the doctrinal and liturgical reforms of Second Vatican Council.\nThey claimed that no authorization was required for celebrating the older usage of the Roman rite of Mass. They decried those who accepted the conditions attached to the \"\" indult, applying to them the term \"indult Catholics\", and frequently did not recognise them as fellow traditionalists.\n\nIn 1988 following the canonically illicit consecration, at Ecône, Switzerland, of four Society of St. Pius X members as bishops by Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre, John Paul II recommended, in \"Ecclesia Dei\", a \"wide and generous application\" of the norms in \"\" and established the Pontifical Commission \"Ecclesia Dei\" to facilitate the return of traditionalist Catholics into full communion with the Holy See.\n\nThe term \"indult Catholic\" became useless as a polemic in 2007 when Pope Benedict XVI promulgated, in \"Summorum Pontificum\", a universal law for the Catholic Church which reformed the norms about the older usage of the Roman rite of Mass. It replaced the norms in ' and ', which regulated through diocesan level indults, with universal church law. Benedict XVI wrote that \"precise juridical norms\" regulating the use of the 1962 Missal were missing because some bishops \"feared that the authority of the Council would be called into question.\" Benedict XVI wrote that while \"fidelity to the old Missal became an external mark of identity\" in the Society of St. Pius X, \"the reasons for the break which arose over this, however, were at a deeper level.\"\n"}
{"id": "14815356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14815356", "title": "Isabel C. Clarke", "text": "Isabel C. Clarke\n\nIsabel Constance Clarke (1869 – 1951 Apr 13) was a British Catholic novelist and biographer. author of over fifty books. She considered the novel to be a \"definite apostolate\" for its ability to bring the Catholic faith to those who are ignorant of it. Popular Catholic children's author Francis J. Finn called her the \"greatest living Catholic novelist.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7861095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7861095", "title": "Jacob ben Hayyim Zemah", "text": "Jacob ben Hayyim Zemah\n\nJacob ben Hayyim Zemah (17th century) was a Portuguese kabalist and physician. He received a medical training in his native country as a Marrano, but fled about 1619 to Safed and devoted himself to the Talmud and the casuists (\"poseḳim\") until 1625; then he went to Damascus, where for eighteen years he studied kabbalah from the Zohar and the writings of Isaac Luria and Hayyim Vital. He finally settled at Jerusalem and opened a yeshivah for the study of the Zohar and other kabbalistic works, David Conforte being for some time one of his pupils (\"Ḳore ha-Dorot,\" pp. 36a, 49a).\n\nJacob Ẓemaḥ was one of the greatest kabbalists of his period and was a prolific author, his works including treatises of his own as well as compilations of the writings of Ḥayyim Vital. He produced twenty works, of which only two have been published. The first of these is the \"Ḳol ba-Ramah\" (Korez, 1785), a commentary on the \"Idra,\" which he began in 1643, and for which he utilized the commentary of Ḥayyim Vital. In the preface to this work he maintained that the coming of the Messiah depended on repentance (\"teshuvah\") and on the study of kabbalah from the Zohar and the writings of Isaac Luria, the delay in the advent of the Messiah being because schools for such study had not been established in every town.\n\nHis second published work is the \"Nagid u-Meẓawweh\" (Amsterdam, 1712), on the mystical meaning of the prayers, this being an abridgment of a compendium which Ẓemaḥ composed on the basis of a more comprehensive treatise.\n\nAmong his unpublished works, special mention may be made of the \"Ronnu le-Ya'aḳob,\" in which he calls himself \"the proselyte\" (\"ger ẓedeḳ\"; \"Cat. Oppenheimer,\" No. 1062 Q). This treatise consists of notes recorded while studying under Samuel Vital and supplemented by his own additions. In his compilation of Ḥayyim Vital's writings, Ẓemaḥ pretended to have discovered many works of Vital which were unknown to the latter's son Samuel.\n\nHe died at Jerusalem in the second half of the 17th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "48483056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48483056", "title": "Jean-Zaché Duracin", "text": "Jean-Zaché Duracin\n\nJean-Zaché Duracin (born 1947) is a bishop of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America serving the Episcopal Diocese of Haiti. He was consecrated on June 2,1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "8679065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8679065", "title": "Johannes Balzli", "text": "Johannes Balzli\n\nJohannes Hans Balzli, more commonly known as Johannes Balzli, was an Austrian/German author, newspaper editor, Theosophist and Armanist, most notable for his biography of Guido von List, entitled, \"\"Guido v. List: Der Wiederentdecker Uralter Arischer Weisheit - Sein Leben und sein Schaffen\" \". (\"Guido v. List - The Rediscoverer of Ancient Aryan Wisdom - His Life and His Work.\")\n\nThe biography on List was published while Theosophists acknowledged List's nationalist popularization of their doctrines, that was published in Vienna by the Guido-von-List-Gesellschaft in 1917, and republished later in the 20th century by Adolf Schleipfer.\n\nThis biography of List was the only book length biography of List that exists and indeed that has ever been written.\n\nBalzli was the secretary of the Leipzig Theosophical Society and editor of occult magazine \"Prana (occult magazine)\" (1909–19) of which was initially edited by astrologer Karl Brandler-Pracht.\n\nDuring 1916 and 1917 List wrote several articles on the approaching national millennium, which was supposed to be realized once the Allies had been defeated, Balzli published 2 of these predictions in \"Prana\" in 1917.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100241", "title": "Kalki", "text": "Kalki\n\nKalki, also called Kalkin or Karki, is the tenth avatar of Hindu god Vishnu to end the Kali Yuga, one of the four periods in endless cycle of existence (\"krita\") in Vaishnavism cosmology. He is described in the Puranas as the avatar who rejuvenates existence by ending the darkest and destructive period to remove adharma and ushering in the Satya Yuga, while riding a white horse with a fiery sword. The description and details of Kalki are inconsistent among the Puranic texts. He is, for example, only an invisible force destroying evil and chaos in some texts, while an actual person who kills those who persecute others, and portrayed as someone leading an army of Brahmin warriors in some. His mythology has been compared to the concepts of Messiah, Apocalypse, Frashokereti and Maitreya in other religions.\n\nKalki is also found in Buddhist texts. In Tibetan Buddhism, the \"Kalachakra-Tantra\" describes 25 rulers, each named Kalki who rule from the heavenly Shambhala. The last Kalki of Shambhala destroys a barbarian Muslim army, after which Buddhism flourishes. This text is dated to about 10th-century CE.\nHowever, some Muslims also claim that the prophet Muhammed was the Kalki avatar, because of his association with a flying white horse, and his father's name is similar in meaning to that of Vishnuyasha, the Father of Kalki. Some prophecies of Kalki say that he will kill the sinful people and atheists by the millions. The Kalki Purana is the main cannon text about Lord Kalki. In the Kalki Purana Kalki is described as the Supreme Being, source and end of all other beings, and ruler of the universe and gods.\n\nThe name Kalki means \"white horse\", \"destroyer of filth\", and \"eternity\". Some scholars such as Otto Schrader to suggest that the original term may have been \"karki\" (white horse knight, from the horse) which morphed into Kalki. This proposal is supported by two versions of \"Mahabharata\" manuscripts (e.g. the G3.6 manuscript) that have been found, where the Sanskrit verses name the avatar to be \"karki\", rather than \"kalki\".\n\nKalki is an avatara of Vishnu. Avatara means \"descent\" and refers to a descent of the divine into the material realm of human existence. The Garuda Purana lists ten avatars, with Kalki being the tenth. He is described as the avatar who appears at the end of the Kali Yuga. He ends the darkest, degenerating and chaotic stage of the Kali \"Yuga\" (period) to remove adharma and ushers in the Satya Yuga, while riding a white horse with a fiery sword. He restarts a new cycle of time. He is described as a Brahmin warrior in the Puranas.\n\nIn the Buddhist text \"Kalachakra Tantra\", the righteous kings are called Kalki (Kalkin, lit. chieftain) living in Sambhala. There are many Kalki in this text, each fighting barbarism, persecution and chaos. The last Kalki is called \"Cakrin\" and is predicted to end the chaos and degeneration by assembling a large army to eradicate the \"forces of Islam\". A great war and Armageddon will destroy the barbaric Muslim forces, states the text. According to Donald Lopez – a professor of Buddhist Studies, Kalki is predicted to start the new cycle of perfect era where \"Buddhism will flourish, people will live long, happy lives and righteousness will reign supreme\". The text is significant in establishing the chronology of the Kalki idea to be from post-7th century, probably the 9th or 10th century. Lopez states that the Buddhist text likely borrowed it from Hindu mythology. Other scholars, such as Yijiu Jin, state that the text originated in Central Asia in the 10th-century, and Tibetan literature picked up a version of it in India around 1027 CE.\n\nKalki is mentioned in several hindu texts including the Agni Purana and Ramayana and Mahabartha. The epithet \"Kalmallkinam\", meaning \"brilliant remover of darkness\", is found in the Vedic literature for Rudra (later Shiva), which has been interpreted to be \"forerunner of Kalki\".\n\nKalki appears for the first time in the great war epic \"Mahabharata\". The mention of Kalki in the \"Mahabharata\" occurs only once, over the verses 3.188.85–3.189.6. The Kalki avatar is found in the Maha-Puranas such as \"Vishnu Purana\", \"Matsya Purana\", and \"Bhagavata Purana\". However, the details relating the Kalki mythologies are divergent between the Epic and the Puranas, as well as within the Puranas.\n\nIn the \"Mahabharata\", according to Hiltebeitel, Kalki is an extension of the Parasurama avatar legend where a Brahmin warrior destroys Kshatriyas who were abusing their power to spread chaos, evil and persecution of the powerless. The Epic character of Kalki restores dharma, restores justice in the world, but does not end the cycle of existence. The Kalkin section in the \"Mahabharata\" occurs in the Markandeya section. There, states Luis Reimann, can \"hardly be any doubt that the Markandeya section is a late addition to the Epic. Making Yudhisthira ask a question about conditions at the end of Kali and the beginning of Krta — something far removed from his own situation — is merely a device for justifying the inclusion of this subject matter in the Epic.\"\n\nThis myth may have developed in the Hindu texts both as a reaction to the invasions of the Indian subcontinent by various armies over the centuries from its northwest, and the mythologies these invaders brought with them.\n\nAccording to John Mitchiner, the Kalki concept was likely borrowed \"in some measure from similar Jewish, Zoroastrian and other religions\". Mitchiner states that some Puranas such as the Yuga Purana do not mention Kalki and offer a different cosmology than the other Puranas. The Yuga Purana mythologizes in greater details the post-Maurya era Indo-Greek and Saka era, while the Manvantara theme containing the Kalki idea is mythologized greater in other Puranas. Luis Gonzales-Reimann concurs with Mitchiner, stating that the Yuga Purana does not mention Kalki. In other texts such as the sections 2.36 and 2.37 of the Vayu Purana, states Reimann, it is not Kalkin who ends the Kali Yuga, but a different character named Pramiti. Most historians, states Arvind Sharma, link the development of Kalki mythology in Hinduism to the suffering caused by foreign invasions.\n\nA text named Kalki Purana is a relatively recent text, likely composed in Bengal. Its dating floruit is the 18th-century. Wendy Doniger dates the Kalki mythology containing \"Kalki Purana\" to between 1500 and 1700 CE.\n\nIn the \"Kalki Purana\", Kalki marries princess Padmavati, the daughter of Brhadratha of Simhala. He fights an evil army and many wars, ends evil but does not end existence. Kalki returns to Sambhala, inaugurates a new \"yuga\" for the good and then goes to Vaikuntha after ruling the world for 1000 years.\n\nThe Kalki Purana states that Kalki will kill all the atheists and will have many powerful divine weapons obtained from Lord Shiva. It is said that Kalki will obtain these after training under Lord Parasurama. \n\nThe Kalki Purana describes Lord Kalki as the supreme deity even above Brahma and Shiva, and that he will kill all the sinful kings who have corrupted the world, and restore the dharma.\n\nThe Kalki avatar appears in the historic Sikh texts, most notably in Dasam Granth as Nihakalanki, a text that is traditionally attributed to Guru Gobind Singh. The \"Chaubis Avatar\" (24 avatars) section mentions sage Matsyanra describing the appearance of Vishnu avatars to fight evil, greed, violence and ignorance. It includes Kalki as the twenty-fourth incarnation to lead the war between the forces of righteousness and unrighteousness, states Dhavan.\n\n[Lord Shiva said to Lord Kalki:] \"This horse was manifested from Garuda, and it can go anywhere at will and assume many different forms. Here also is a parrot [ Shuka ] that knows everything - past, present, and future. I would like to offer You both the horse and the parrot and so please accept them. By the influence of this horse and parrot, the people of the world will know You as a learned scholar of all scriptures who is a master of the art of releasing arrows, and thus the conqueror of all. I would also like to present You this sharp, strong sword and so please accept it. The handle of this sword is bedecked with jewels, and it is extremely powerful. As such, the sword will help You to reduce the heavy burden of the earth.\"\n\nThereafter, Lord Kalki picked up His brightly shining trident and bow and arrows and sets out from His palace, riding upon His victorious horse and wearing His amulet.\n\n[Shuka said to Padmavati:] [Lord Kalki] received a sword, horse, parrot, and shield from Mahadeva, as a benediction.\n\nIn the cyclic concept of time (\"Puranic Kalpa\"), Kaliyuga is variously estimated to last between 400,000 and 432,000 years. In some Vaishnava texts, Kalki is forecasted to appear on a white horse, at the end of Kaliyuga, to end the age of degeneration and to restore virtue and world order.\n\nThe Kalki Purana states that Kalki will be born to the family of Sumati and Vishnuyasha \nor alternatively . Awejsirdenee and Bishenjun, He appears at the end of Kali Yuga to restore the order of the world. Vishnuyasha is stated to be a prominent Brahmin headman of the village called Shambhala. He will become the king, a \"Turner of the Wheel\", and one who triumphs. He will eliminate all barbarians and robbers, end \"adharma\", restart \"dharma\", and save the good people. After that, humanity will be transformed and will prevail on earth, and the golden age will begin.\n\nIn the Kanchipuram temple, two relief Puranic panels depict Kalki, one relating to lunar (daughter-based) dynasty and another to solar (son-based) dynasty. In these panels, states D Dennis Hudson, the story depicted is in terms of Kalki fighting and defeating asura Kali. He rides a white horse called Devadatta, ends evil, purifies everyone's minds and consciousness, and heralds the start of Krita Yuga.\n\nList of people who have claimed to be the Kalki avatar:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "9944889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9944889", "title": "Kevin Conner", "text": "Kevin Conner\n\nKevin Conner is a Pentecostal theologian who was formerly the senior minister of Waverley Christian Fellowship (now CityLife Church) in Melbourne, Australia. Conner is the author of nearly 60 books and has taught nationally and internationally at many churches, conferences and bible colleges.\n\nBorn in Melbourne, Australia in 1927, Conner became a Christian at the age of 14, and served in the Salvation Army until the age of 21. From 21, he became a pastor for a number of years.\n\nIn 1972, he moved to Portland, Oregon, USA to serve with Dick Iverson at Bible Temple (now City Bible Church), where he taught for a number of years. In 1981, he returned to Australia and from 1986–1995 pastored Waverley Christian Fellowship.\n\nConner was dean of Portland Bible College in the 1970s and is recognised as one of the leaders of the Latter Rain Movement. His books appear in prestigious bible college libraries across the world (including Harvard Divinity School and Princeton Theological Seminary) and are used as textbooks at a number of colleges.\n\nConner's significant contributions to theology and teaching are recognised by missions and teaching organisations such as Ministers Fellowship International, \"These textbooks have gone into over 80 countries and have become great resources for Ministers, teachers, preachers and Bible college students\" and Global Harvest Ministries\n\nConner studied at Southwest International College (San Antonio, Texas) and Southern California Theological Seminary (San Diego, California). \n\nKevin Conner was married to his late first-wife Joyce, and later to his late second wife Rene. His daughter, Sharon is married to Frank Damazio, who is now senior minister of City Bible Church in Portland. His son, Mark Conner, was formerly the senior minister of CityLife Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39519183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39519183", "title": "List of writers on Jainism", "text": "List of writers on Jainism\n\nThis is a list of writers on Jainism. The list should include writers who have Wikipedia articles who have written books about Jainism. Each entry should indicate the writers most well-known work. Multiple works should be listed only if each work has a Wikipedia article. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26936663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26936663", "title": "Lists of mosques", "text": "Lists of mosques\n\nLists of mosques include:\n\nAnd lists of notable mosques by location:\n\n"}
{"id": "10793289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10793289", "title": "Louhelen Bahá'í School", "text": "Louhelen Bahá'í School\n\nLouhelen Bahá'í School is one of three leading institutions owned by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States. The others are Green Acre Bahá'í School and Bosch Bahá'í School. Louhelen is near Davison, Michigan.\n\nThe school property was bought for Bahá'í purposes in 1930 by the new married couple Lou and Helen Eggleston and they hosted a picnic that year. The first \"school\" session was held in 1931 and was run via a committee organized by the national community through the 1930s and 40s. Innovations in the period were adding distinct sessions for youth and junior youth and practicum \"laboratory\" sessions. All the while the material setting was also advanced. In 1947 the Egglestons donated the school property valued over $50k and the National Spiritual Assembly of the US bought the residence which was organically part of the school. The work of maintaining the site was then kept by two committees and on-site managers though the Egglestons continued to associate with the school into the early 1950s. Lou died in 1953 while their daughter assisted the school in 1955. For a period of two years, however, the school was shut down as were all the Bahá'í schools, in 1949 and 1950 to conserve resources for the cost of finishing the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette and to clearly establish the thrust of work of promulgating the religion in Latin America.\n\nActivities resumed and continued through the 1960s into the early 1970s. However a safety situation developed and in 1974 the school was closed by the national assembly. An investment of $1.8 million followed with plans drawn up and construction projects carried out from 1980 to 1982 and the school re-opened with some buildings restored, others replaced and the mission more explicitly being a residential college and conference center.\n\nA number of subject areas have been advanced across the periods of the school. One was race unity, a subject at the school explicitly since 1932 when Maye Gift's talks on race led to a compilation that was well received in multiple reprints. The school welcomed inter-racial couples, members of diverse races, and a project supporting black students going to attend integrating schools in Greenville, SC, in 1964 was undertaken and a socioeconomic development program Understanding Racism initiative in 1986. Books were also developed from other presentations at the school - some of Stanwood Cobb's work was gathered from working for a school session, and the text of \"The Divine Art of Living\" evolved from presentations. Moslem and Christian subjects were studied early on. Later a residential college program supported students who stayed at the school and were students in area colleges. Scholars of the religion gathered annually at the school in the form of the Association for Bahá'í Studies and the Irfan Colloquia and attracted performers like Andy Grammar, and Kevin Locke. The school also supported a grandparents-and-grandkids program of learning indigenous Indian cultural history. Jr youth projects have been posted to YouTube.\n\nThe Genesee County area was developed by Euro-Americans following the development of an Indiana Territory and its dissolution. Then, the region went through transitions from a territory to a state. Freeman Sweers established the farm near Davison, Michigan in the latter 1800s and sold to a D. P. Hall. In 1924, Sweers bought into a development in Florida. About the time of the Great Depression in the United States and in bad condition, the farm was bought by Lou (Lewis W.) and Helen Eggleston. Lou was born about 1873, worked in heating industry, and then, at about the age of 50, Lou married Helen and bought the farm, then about 268 acres. Helen was daughter of E. D. and Mrs. Whitney, of Lansing.\n\nHelen, still going by her maiden name of Whitney, sent a message to the \"Bahá'í News\", early monthly periodical of the religion, published in October 1930, of the intention of setting it up as a dairy farm \"to operate as far as possible along Baha'i lines\". In the face of the extending troubles of the Depression that year, a \"picnic\" was held; it was one of two informal picnics Bahá'ís held in Michigan that year.\n\nThe name \"Louhelen\", a contraction of their first names, was originally used as in \"Louhelen Ranch\". Louhelen was also the name of their daughter and they also had a son Lewis Jr. both of which came along later.\n\nThe July 1931 edition of \"Bahá'í News\" published the announcement of the program at the Central States Bahá'í Summer School, the first name of the school, August 1–9 with lodgings and two meals a day for $10-$12 for the week and noted correspondence should be sent to Helen Whitney Eggleston to an address in Detroit. The faculty included Harlan and Grace Ober, already active in the religion many years in the Boston area and Green Acre Bahá'í School, Mabel and Howard Ives, Dorothy Baker, Fanny Knobloch, and Maye Harvey Gift. Mary Collison and Miss McKay were support staff. The Obers and Ives planned the school as a committee. 35 Baha'is and friends from six states attended all the sessions and about 50 others, mainly from Detroit and Flint, came as day students to one or more classes. Baker's entire family attended. The sessions were held that year in a wooded area sloping down to a clear stream, either in a lodge on the hillside or in an open-air amphitheater nearby. Some 20 people attended the first day and about 90 total attended at least one day of activities.\n\nThe Egglestons devoted themselves to developing the school's facilities. A small barn was partitioned into private rooms and became a Pullman type lodge, providing long narrow rooms. A dining porch was added to the main house to improve the serving of meals. 80 acres of the Eggleston farm were allotted to be used by the school. A ravine was named Ridvan Garden. Details were covered in the two main periodicals of the religion of the day - \"Bahá'í News\", and \"Star of the West\", the oldest large scale journal of the religion in the US, in December, 1931. Topics of the sessions included economics, the problem of greed and it's amelioration and another was practical and inspirational approaches to being trustworthy. There was also a daily class in public speaking, study of `Abdu'l-Bahá's talks, a leading figure of the religion, children's classes, and international subjects. Recreational activities in the afternoon included swimming and horse-back riding. The author of the \"Star of the West\" article recalled there being a log cabin overlooking the ravine. Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, a Baha'i since at least 1927, was present at this first session and would long serve the school.\n\nNoting the need for a center of activity between the coasts and the progress of the Eggleston and noted some 35 attendees with 90 at least some session. A message from Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, was quoted \"To achieve success in such manner the first year is certainly beyond what we could expect.\"\n\nIn 1932, the summer school became a recognized Bahá'í institution. A committee was appointed by the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States consisting of Lou Eggleston, Dorothy Baker, and Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick. Subjects and faculty were published ahead of time. The cost for participants was published at $9 to $12 for room with 2 meals per day for nine days and suggesting dinners in nearby Davison. In addition to the school July 31 to August 9, events and meetings happened beyond the school session. A specific inter-community conference took place July 31. Faculty and subjects included Bishop Brown (Bahá'í administration,) and Mrs. Brown (outline for the study of \"The Dawn-Breakers\",) Pearl Easterbrook (prayer and meditation,) Albert Vail (study of \"The Dawn-Breakers\",) Dorothy Baker (who oversaw a youth meeting of some 18-20 and had many supplemental presentations by other faculty,) Ruth Moffett (the Temple being built, and spiritual illumination,) Maye Harvey Gift (amity work – in 1935 Gift would co-produced the first compilation of Baha'i references to race issues, circulated more in 1942 which was revised and republished in expanded form in 1943, and 1956, also owned by Rev. Martin Luther King Jr,) Elizabeth Greenleaf, chair of the new national youth committee (on youth consultation,) as well as some youth. Several of the faculty – Vail, Gift, and Easterbrook being leaders from various Illinois communities – Urbana and Peoria especially – though Vail had already more of a nation visibility and had given up a likely winning career as a unitarian universalist minister and in the case of Easterbook position in the New Thought movement. In addition to Baker's family, Jakob Kunz's daughters attended.\n\nA meeting was arranged by local Rev. J. M. Pengelly who became interested from the 1931 meeting where he attended the classes by Harlan Ober. Pengelly also invited Ruth Moffett to address his church group.\n\nAverage attendance during the school approached 60 (twice the previous year) and filled the accommodations. An additional 10-20 from Detroit attended some days. 18-20 youth attended and some paid their way by service. Dorothy Baker supervised the youth who held their own forum, daily elected a chair from their own group and called for two short talks for each session followed by an open forum limiting the speaker to not comment further. Albert Vail's study of \"The Dawn-Breakers\", included instruction on Muslim history. Also $50 was gathered for donation to the Temple construction following a fundraiser by Orcella Rexford. She had attended at the urging of friends at the last minute and later wrote an article for \"Star of the West\". She recalled driving past the ranch house on the winding driveway with a nine-sided building hosting water resources and staying in one of the new cabins. She noted the Pullman Lodge was two-story and that people had come from as far as California and Maine as well as one who had finished a round-the-world trip. Half the attendees were called youth and looked forward to \"doing something\". The closing night the youth presented an original play \"O wad some Pow'r the giftie gie us to see ourself as others see us\" quoting Robert Burns and imitating various of the elders present.\n\nAgain the Egglestons looked at improving, adding, and remodeling buildings between this session and the next.\n\nAmidst the closing of banks and tightening money during the early part of the year via the Emergency Banking Act, plans for the summer 1933 moved the school about a month earlier, June 25-July 3. The national assembly specifically asked that the overall program for promoting the religion across the country was to be presented at Louhelen and Green Acre Bahá'í Schools that year. Dorothy Baker was to lead youth group, and new Pullman Apartments had been added to the barn to accommodate more people. Faculty include Bishop and Mrs. Brown, Allen McDaniel, Harlan and Grace Ober, Elizabeth Greenleaf and Dorothy Baker, Fanny Knobloch, and Lillian Seilken. Three meals a day and room were paid for at between $12.50 to $23 for the whole session, average attendance was about 70 and there were 140 total attendees. Elizabeth Greenleaf opened the session with a presentation on meditation and prayer, then Harlan Ober, assisted by Greenleaf, reviewed Bahá'í administration as it was understood then - Allen McDaniel was sick. Dorothy Backer gave daily talks from \"The Dawn-Breakers\". Afternoon public meetings attracted a few visitors. Youth did the planning of evening events. Some 26 youth participated in total and included some non-Baha'is. Philip Sprague came late and gave a talk on the progress of the Temple. $500 was raised for it. Ruth Moffett gave a talk. Mary Maxwell, soon to marry Shoghi Effendi and change her name to Rúhíyyih Khanum, also gave two talks based on \"The Dawn-Breakers\". The final advertised program of faculty and topics was: Elizabeth Greenleaf (Kitáb-i-Íqán,) Greenleaf and Harlan Ober (Baha'i Administration,) Dorothy Baker (\"The Dawn-Breakers\",) Ober (religion and society,) Gretch Westervelt (new education,) Orcella Rexford (tomorrow,) Grace Obert (cycle of life,) Fanny Knobloch (Bahá'í Faith to South Africa,) Harlan Ober (New civilization,) and Baker (cosmic consciousness of unity.)\n\nPlanned for June 30 to July 8, the faculty proposed were: Allen B. McDaniel, Mary Hanford Ford, Shahnaz Waite, Gretchen Westervelt, Dorothy Baker, and Philip Sprague. Topics were to include Baha'i administration, \"The Dawn Breakers\", and the Bible. A youth conference of 16 people in Lima, Ohio, gathered from Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin, at the end of March consulted about Louhelen. They first noted a change in date for the youth session to June 25-8 and faculty and subjects as: devotionals by Dorothy Baker, Bahá'í ideals in a forum by Harlan Ober, effective leadership by Marion Holley, (Olympian in the 1928 games,) spiritual aspects of the teachings by Mary Hanford Ford, Bible study and comparative religion by James McCormick, and had rates from $5 to $8 for four days, meals, and board. At the time it was the only such session among any of the Baha'i schools. However it happened July 10–13 instead of late June, and Dorothy Baker returned to lead the session assisted by Philip Sprague. Mary Maxwell and James McCormick also assisted the youth group meeting. The youth group focused on dramatic re-enactments.\n\nThe general session of nine days was to cost between $12.50 to $18.50. Detroit newspapers noted the gathering at Louhelen as well as the organizing committee including Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick and L. W. Eggleston. They also listed the members of the year's Detroit Assembly including Lou Eggleston as chair and Mrs. Eggleston as corresponding secretary.\n\nSylvia Paine wrote a summary of her experience at the school in the session for the September \"Star of the West\" edition. She recounted how two youth visitors looking for riding horses chanced upon the Baha'i school in session and stayed a half hr to hear of the ideas. Paine noted the school conference was 14 days long. Meditation and prayer, narratives of Baha'i history, principles of governance, and there was room for swimming and playing tennis, baseball or horse riding. Piano playing was also to be found as well as sing-alongs. She also noted the youth gathering for four days for the first time, and there was a conscious attempt to vary the faculty. She also states the goals of the schools:: to deepen one's knowledge of the religion, to have an opportunity for Baha'is to meet and find friendships, to inform seekers, and be a testing ground for spirit and precepts meet. A letter from Shoghi Effendi was addressed to that school's session. Presenting the high goals of virtues, he said, \"\"the work in which you are engaged is dear and near to my heart and constitutes one of the most vital aspects of the manifold activities of our beloved Faith.\"\n\nAt the spring national convention Dale Cole described a youth group in Flint, MI, founded by the influence of the Louhelen Summer School, who then formed a Spiritual Assembly in 1935. This was also highlighted by the youth committee reported by Marion Holley.\n\nThe 1935 season was scheduled to begin with a youth session June 24–27 with faculty and subjects as: Dorothy Baker (Baha'i Life), Bishop Brown (Baha'i approach to world problems), Shoghi Effendi's letters (run by the \"Young People's Council\"), What is the Baha'i movement (under the direction of the \"Council\"). This was followed by the general session June 29-July 7 with faculty and subjects: Horace Holley, (Baha'i activities,) Stanwood Cobb, (\"Security in a failing world\", based on his 1934 book,) Loulie Matthews (\"Divine Art of Living\", material of which was gathered and published as early as 1940, see Bahá'í Faith on life after death), and a second general summer session August 19–24 not announcing faculty yet.\n\nAn updated program appeared in July outlining the second session with its first faculty Carl Scheffler and E. Lenore Morris. The final faculty announced was: Mrs. Barry Orlova, Stanwood Cobb, Dorothy Baker, Bishop Brown, Horace Holley, and Mamie Seto, a Bahá'í from Hawaii, with members of the Lansing Bahá'ís attending including George and Mrs. Angell, Cora Reed, Ed and Mrs. Whitney, H. A. and Mrs. Jersey, William and Mrs. Warner, Earl Shetterly, Marie Fox, Bert and Gale Peek, Allen McLean. The Central States Baha'i Summer School Committee sent a letter to \"Bahá'í News\" published in a summer 1935 supplement saying the school will be held June 29 at the request of the national teaching committee and responding to the telegram from Shoghi Effendi and that reservations be sent in as quickly as possible.\n\nMarion Holley organized a survey of Bahá'í youth in America published in 1936 and found that by far the largest mid-western gathering of youth to that date was at the Louhelen in 1935. Another youth meeting was planned to be held in 1936 chaired by Wildrid Barton of Winnetka, IL. The idea of a survey was mentioned in 1934 by the new nationally organized Bahá'í youth committee,\n\nThe youth session for 1936 was planned June 22-5; faculty were advertised as Bahiyyih Lindstrom, Dorothy Baker, and Stanwood Cobb. Some 80 youth attended and listed Glen Shook among the faculty. The Chicago Bahá'í youth oversaw the sports, afternoon and evening entertainments and they developed their own basic rules of conduct centered on the honor system. Discussions included the attitude towards the growing WWII (then brewing mostly in Europe,) and relationships with ecclesiastical organizations were among the topics. Garreta Busey gave a class on public speaking. The general session followed with faculty Dorothy Baker, Glenn Shook, and Stanwood Cobb. Baker's attendance was in the context of having given up her savings for Bahá'í pilgrimage as a contribution for the Bahá'í Temple and her talks included her choice in a marriage partner being guided more by prayers than by her attraction to a willing suitor.\n\nThe densest and largest concentration of Bahá'í youth in America was in the Midwest from the south of the Urbana-Peoria region north through Chicago to Milwaukee-Kenosha, and across America by far the largest gathering of youth to 1936 was at Louhelen.\n\nThis was followed by the general session June 28-July 5 including faculty Allen McDaniel, Glenn Shook, and Stanwood Cobb. A second session was added for August 2–9 with faculty Mamie Seto, Marzeih Carpenter (later Gail), and Willard McKay; two of the classes were on Islam/Islamic culture. The cost advertised for the 4 day youth session was $5, and general sessions per day of $1.35 to $2.10. L. W. Eggleston was still advertised leading the school in the \"Detroit Free Press\". A brief profile and speakers at the school was profiled in the \"Lansing State Journal\". Recognizing the historical character of the development, the relatively new Bahá'í national archives established under the National Spiritual Assembly called for materials for the summer schools to be preserved. The summer 1936 school at Louhelen was noted as one of the places an \"inter-community\" conference was held with a member of every assembly and group in the state present.\n\nThe second general session had faculty Maime Seto, Marzieh Carpenter, and Willar McKay. Note was taken of newspaper articles by Clarissa Bean of Flint, and in Detroit, if briefly. A public tour of Louhelen by Roscoe Springston, chair of the Detroit assembly, was advertised as well as some sessions available such as by Marzieh Carpenter and other classes offered.\n\nBertha Hyde Kirkpatrick presented at the Bahá'í national convention about the schools in April.\n\nThe program committee oversaw all sessions for 1937 with the youth committee delegated for their session. Members of the program committee were L. W. Eggleston chair, and members Bishop Brown, E. J. Miessler, Doroth Baker, Garreta Busey, and Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick served as secretary for the group. The youth committee had members Marguerite Reimer, (soon to be married to William Sears), Florence Mattoon, Wilfrid Barton, (and a youth of Lima, Ohio, to be elected by youth present.)\n\nThe youth session was advertised running June 27-July 1; faculty advertised were Willard McKay, Annamarie and Margert Kunz, Garretta Busey, Marzeih Carpenter, and 1928 Olympian Marion Holley. Some attended from Buffalo, NY. A youth then non-Bahá'í in California later wrote of her experience coming to the religion after being much impressed by a faculty of the Louhelen 1937 session as an article in 1942's \"World Order magazine\".\n\nThe first general session then ran July 3–11 with faculty Allen McDaniel, Marzieh Carpenter, Garetta Busey, and Marion Holly. A class on publicity was done at Louhelen in July 1937 by Mrs. Wendell E. Bacon and draft articles accomplished in the class were sent to area newspapers and Lou Eggleston himself published a long article on the history of the Louhelen school in the Davison newspaper.\n\nThe second general session ran July 31-August 8 with faculty N. M. Firoozi, Glen Shook, and Dorothy Baker. Room and board for general sessions per day per person ran $1.50 to $2.15. Lothar Shurgast, former spy for Germany, also came as faculty in August. Some Binghamton, NY, Bahá'ís were noted attending Louhelen this August session.\n\nIn April 1938 the national library committee reported in \"Bahá'í News\" that it had contributed books to the Bahá'í school libraries including Louhelen. Meetings on race unity were held in lead up to the general session. Emogene Hoagg gave study classes in the Flint community staying at Louhelen since May, and was among many faculty that year who spoke in neighboring towns - Carl Scheffler, Robert Faines, McDaniel, Harlan Ober and Caswell all gave extra talks in the area. The first general session August 6–13 had faculty Curtis Kelsey, Helen Bishop, Alice Bacon, Marzieh Carpenter, with costs between $1.50 and $2.15 per day.\n\nThe youth session ran at $1.20 per day for August 16–20 with faculty Virginia Camelon, Edward Miessler, Helen Bishop, Carl Scheffler and Marzieh Carpenter. An article noted some from Lansing attending: Frank and Mrs. Evans, Grace Coltrin, Alverta Hamilton, George H and Mrs. Angell, Charity Ballard, Cora Reed, David and Mrs. Earl. Mrs. Earl was Joy Hill Earl, an African American, while David M. Earl was white. Thus the campus hosted an inter-racial black-white couple in 1938. A talk from faculty and attendees also followed a school session.\n\nA change in 1938 was an added youth session and changed one of the general sessions into a laboratory session as suggested by Marion Holley. The laboratory session was added to allow students to concentrate on special projects; in 1938 it was a study project of 10 days by H. Imogene Hoagg, and a project to reach out to neighboring communities with literature and conversations, coordinately by Margarite Reimer.\n\nCobb's lectures developed for Louhelen classes in recent years were presented as a series of articles in \"World Order magazine\" across 1938 and collected and printed as a book as well.\n\nHaving books donated the previous year there was need for a library building, and it was erected and called the Refuge in 1939, through financial support of Amelia Collins and Dorothy Graf. It was raised with labor donated by Lou and George Eggleston.\n\nThe first session in the summer of 1939 was a general session August 6–13 with faculty Curtis Kelsey, Helen Bishop, Alice Bacon, and Marzieh Carpenter; the second youth session ran from August 16–20 with faculty Virginia Camelon, Edward Miessler, Helen Bishop, Carl Scheffler, and Marzeih Carpenter, at $1.20 per day. The endeavor of the school was encouraged and commented on via a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the Louhelen School on July 29.\n\nA later session in August had faculty Helen Bishop and Marzieh Carpenter. Mrs Kenneth Christian spoke at the school in 1939.\n\nSome attendees of the school sessions came from Lansing, Detroit, and newly weds Alice Halvorsen and Arthur Hendershot came all the way from Miami, Florida. Overall there were 54 youth in the first session and 47 in the second session. The youth classes for 1939 were reviewed in the October 1940 issue of \"Baha'i Youth\" by Betty Scheffler.\n\nThe first winter session at Louhelen held in the new library came in 1939-1940 for December 26 to January 1 with subjects pioneering, where a volunteers to leave their home for the purpose of supporting the religion somewhere else, deeper study, presenting the religion without public speaking, and psychology of attracting individuals and groups to the religion; registration was limited to 10 people and the cost was $2.25 per day. The faculty were Francis Stewart, Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, Ether Neal Furbush, and Harry Jay. Mrs. George Angell of Lansing was one of the attendees, as was Mrs. George R. True of Detroit.\n\nThe summer 1940 sessions had some notices in June - Cynthia Powell would attend the youth sessions to counsel on job opportunities based on her studies at Columbia University, and there would be a Laboratory session on concentrated study by Emogeen Hoagg. Again meetings were held before the sessions by faculty among others. A June 1940 article in \"World Order magazine\" describes the state of Louhelen including that the library erected the year before now had had almost 800 books.\n\nFour summer sessions were scheduled for the summer - the first youth session June 26–30, a Laboratory session July 3–12, a general session August 8–11, and a second youth session August 21–25. For the summer session, Korean chair of the Detroit assembly Harry Whang performed a Baha'i wedding at Loubelen. An attendee from Indianapolis, Indiana, and Racine, Wisconsin. Etty Graffe wrote an article about her experience with prayer, and she attended a 1941 summer session. Clarence Niss joined the Louhelen program committee in the later summer.\n\nThe winter session for 1940-1 at Louhelen was planned for December 26-January 1, would center on the as yet uncirculated text of Foundations of World Unity, by `Abdu'l-Bahá, (officially published in 1945,) and would cost $2/day presented by Mrs. (Virginia) David Camelon.\n\nBertha Hyde Kirkpatrick attended an early planning session of the program committee in February. The Library was noted to have reached 1800 books, more than doubled, a year later; the collection had been reviewed by a public librarian in Detroit, and the collection had been redone according to the Dewey-Decimal system. That spring the Egglestons toured New York state in visiting several cities.\n\nThe printed program for the first youth session June 29-July 5, 1941 had faculty former Assistant Attorney General in Ohio (1937–38) and African-American Elsie Austin and Virginia Camelon, while Mrs. Rexford C. Parmalee, Lottie Graeffe and the Milwaukee Youth Group organized the evening program and the cost was $1.35 per person per day. The Laboratory session followed for July 8–17 with faculty Harry Jay, Solon Fieldman, Lotte Graeffe, members of national Baha'i committees, with costs of $1.60 to $2.25 per person per day. A separate vacation session followed July 19 - August 8 with informal meetings and a chance to practice Spanish and learn Latin American culture for rates of $1.50 to $2.25 per person per day. A general session ran August 10–17 with faculty Albert Windust, Alice Simmons Cox, (summa cum laude and founding Phi Kappa Phi member at Lombard College in 1925, and posthumous honor award winner from Knox College,) Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, and various forum and informal talks was advertised. Lastly, a second youth session ran August 20–26 with faculty Robert Gaines, F. St. George Spendlove, Margaret Ruhe, and cost $1.35 per person per day.\n\nBertha Kirkpatrick attended a planning session for the school in May.\n\nSpecific news of the extended season, also called a family session, came in June and mentioned support for practice in Spanish and a performance of a play on Tahirih by Mrs. Earl Andrews for the youth sessions. A substitution for the laboratory session on public speaking was going to be Virginia Camelon's \"The heart of the Baha'i Faith\" about the Bahá'í Covenant. There was some newspaper coverage of the school opening, and the youth session with faculty of Elsie Austin, Mrs. Rexford Parmalee, Lotte Graeffe, Mrs. (Virginia) Camelon, Alberto Liao of Brazil, and Kh-i-Hashimi of Iraq, mentioned in various articles. Cincinnatian Beulah Herndon acclaimed the prejudice free atmosphere at the school when she returned home, and four from Geneva NY noted their attendance from Geneva, NY. Nancy Gates, Mary E. Gates, and Beverly Collison with Mrs. R. C. Collison.\n\nInternational Youth Day was held at Louhelen with Dorothy Beecher Baker, Mrs. Josue Picon, and Harry Whang speaking. The event was also mentioned in the Wayne State student newspaper with a student talk, exhibition and Philippine dances. F. St. G. Spendlove, painter Eduardo Selgado presenting, UoM Filipino students including Levi Barbour scholars. Orcella Rexford was noted teaching at Louhelen and attended a nearby international conference and several attendees there accepted invitations to come to Louhelen as well as a Philippine articles and some students. This was probably the Eighth International conference of the New Education Fellowship, held in July. A decade later a Filipino who had attended Louhelen was mentioned in an NGO report in Manilla.\n\nIn the atmosphere after Attack on Pearl Harbor, the 1941-2 winter session was set to center on Shoghi Effendi's new text The Promised Day is Come, (announced before the attack.) The winter of 1941 Louhelen school committee was published in December: Edward Miessler, Mrs. L. W. Eggleston, Phyllis Hall, Beatrice Eardley, Harry Whang, L. W. Eggleston, Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, Dorothy Graf. Mr and Mrs. W. W. Robinson attended the winter session from Ohio. Indeed Baha'is from Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, New York, Maryland and Michigan attended as well as some investigating the religion from Flint. Work was also done reviewing \"Prayers and Meditations\" and topics by Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick with \"Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh\" was also shared. A public meeting was led by Frank Warner. Stanwood Cobb also spoke during the session and there were again Filipino visitors.\n\nIn the face of World War II there was relatively limited commentary of the summer school sessions and no winter session was mentioned.\n\nThe June list of the program committee had Edmund Miessler, chair, Mrs. L. W. Eggleston, secretary, Phyllis Hall corresponding secretary, with general members Beatrice Eardley, Harry Whang, L. W. Eggleston, Kenneth Christian, Bertha Hyde Kirkpartick, and Dorothy Graf. The Fall 1942 Louhelen committee added Kenneth Christian.\n\nFaculty for the summer 1942 session included Alice Cox, Kenneth Christian, Mrs. Christian Edmund Miessler and nine Detroit Bahá'ís were noted attending. The Detroit community was then about 50 people Ohioans also attended.\n\nThe national assembly added three youth to the program committee the next year: Paul Petit, Clement Perry, and Dick Suhm. The summer 1943 Louhelen program committee was published as follows: Chair was Edmund Miessler, Helen Eggleston secretary, Phyllis Hall corresponding secretary, and generally members Beatrice Eardley, Harry Whang, L. W. Eggleston, Kenneth Christian, Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, Paul Pettit, Clement Perry, and Dick Suhm. Michael Farrand was among the attendees from Detroit. There was also mention of 11 attendees of the Louhelen school intending to go pioneering.\n\nBaha'is going to the 1943-4 winter school came from Detroit - Mrs. Clinton Wideman, Mrs. David Farrand, Etta Catlin, and Roscoe Springston.\n\nThe 1944 season Louhelen school committees was chair, Edwin Miessler, Helen Eggleston Sec, Phyllis Hall corr sec., Beatrice Eardley, L. W. Eggleston, Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, Paul Pettit, Alice Kidder, and Charles Reimer. By the spring of 1944 there were accommodations for up to 75 in the summer and 25 in the winter and regularly supported five summer sessions plus one winter session as well as conferences and weddings. The school had three principles operating by 1944 - \"to have a real school, a place to learn Truth, … to have a place where people may live for a time as a Baha'i community, practicing the oneness of mankind,… and to have one more spot when the Light of the New Day is radiated.\" Sessions for young people were divided 12 to 15 yrs old and another for over 15. Teachers had been invited to give talks at various venues in the area as well. The library had gathered some 2700 volumes and sold additional ones to inquirers in the region. 1944 also added child-care as a play school. Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick attended. The summer 1944 program for Louhelen oriented to the Centenary of the Declaration of the Báb. The August 4–13 general session was followed by a youth session August 16–23 with rates from $1.65 to $2.75 per person per day. Reginald King gave a talk that summer of 1944; other faculty were Gretchen Westervelt, and Mrs. Wendell Bacon. A \"Bible school\" at Louhelen was also mentioned. A letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi arrived for the 1944 session. Paul Petit was chair of the national youth committee and gave a report on events at Louhelen at a youth meeting.\n\nReginald King was at the winter session as well.\n\nThe spring 1945 Louhelen school committee had Margaret Swengel join. The 1945 season school committee were Mrs. John E (Bertha Hyde) Kirkpatrick, chair, Helen Eggleston, sec, Phyllis Hall, cor. sec., Harry Whang, L.W. Eggleston, Edmund Missler, Mrs. Clinton W. Wideman, Roscie Springston, Margaret Swengel, and Richard Suhm.\n\nBertha Hyde Kirkpatrick and others from Battle Creek, MI, attended the summer session, as did Elsie Austin and Marzieh Gail from Detroit. Reginald King gave a talk in a later summer session, other faculty were Gretchen Westervelt, and Mrs. Wendell Bacon. A specific session was aimed to attract non-Baha'is in 1945.\n\nFor the end of 1945 into 1946 the Louhelen school committee was published as: Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick chair, Helen Eggleston, sec., Harry Whang, L. W. Eggleston, Edmund Miessler, Rebecca L. Wideman, Alice Kidder, Winnie Foster, and Wm. Kenneth Christian. A Green Bay, Wisconsin, youth symposium set up a scholarship fund for going to the Louhelen school, as did Wauwatosa Baha'is. The school committee membership announced in December 1945 added George R. True, Aldham Robarts, Ralph Halverson, and Paul Pettit.\n\nThe 1945-6 winter program was of \"Fundamental Verities\" by Florence Reeb and \"Character Development\" by W. Kenneth Christian with rates of $2.50 and $3.00 per person per day. Attendees also came from Ohio.\n\nAmidst the spreading new of the Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the Surrender of Japan, the schedule for the summer of 1946 was: workshop courses June 29-July 10, Junior Youth July 13–19, Mid-summer session July 22–28, Laboratory July 31-August 11, and senior youth August 14–25. A specific offering was a conference for parents for July 20-1, … including a specific children development program.\n\nThe first summer session had Mamie Seto leading a class on Bahá'í ideas on spiritual growth, Paul E. Haney on the Bahá'í administrative order, Arthur Patterson on visual displays and exhibits, and Florence Reed on public speaking. The Jr youth session had Peggy True on Baha'i beliefs and conduct, Harry Ford on character, Paul Pettit on mapping travels and cultural encounter, Eleanor Hutchens on nature studies in art and natural materials, with time set aside for round-table discussions with Peggy True and Paul Pettit acting as campus counselors. Roberta Christian was director of the parent's conference.\n\nThe Laboratory session had Curtis Kelsey on use of Baha'i literature for the public, Emerie and Rosemary Sala on world unity and a book \"The Earth one country\", and Harlan Ober on developing community. Alice Bacon ran evening programs such as on character. The senior youth session had Arnold Ketels on problems of youth connections, Heshmat Ala'i on the cycles of civilizations, Archie Tichneor on the emerging new world order, and Esther Wilson directed a choir, (the choir was recorded on a Peirce wire recorder.) The forum and talks of pioneering were overseen by Leena Boyd and Arnold Ketels. Rates varies from $1.75 to $3.\n\nThe mid-summer session was planned with Bahiyyih and Harry Ford directing a session on children and society problems as a combination workshop and lecture including non-Baha'i experts. Leaders in schools of teachers, principles, directors, as well as university faculty - Dr. E. N. Palmer of Fisk, and the University of Illinois' Dr. A. Y. McClusky.\n\nOn her way to the school Mamie Seto toured along many cities in the western US - Boise ID, Salt Lake City UT, and Laramie WY. Dorothy Baker talk also returned. Attendees came from Battle Creek, and Greenville, SC. An excerpt of a letter from Shoghi Effendi to the 1946 senior youth session was published in December.\n\nThe Louhelen school committee announced for 1947 was: Winnie Foster chair, Helen Eggleston Sec, Arnold Ketels, Albert Segan, Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick Paul Pettit, Rebecca Wideman, L. W. Eggleston, Larry Hautz, and Kenneth Christian. Two of the winter sessions were on \"Some Answered Questions\" led by Harlan Ober and a training class by Elizabeth Cheney. Mrs. J. E. (Bertha Hyde) Kirkpatrick and Dayne Farrand at winter session of Louhelen. The winter 1946-7 session included African-American Baha'i and non-Baha'i speakers: Mr. Eason as Flint Urban League Secretary, Bahá'í and African American Ellsworth Blackwell, of another interracial couple, and Arthur Patterson chairing the meeting. winter session Ramona Steffes talk at Center; returned from Louhelen in Winter.\n\nThe May 1947 \"Bahá'í News\" sought a registrar, normally Helen Eggleston's work since 1931, to handle room assignments, fee collection, and could attend some classes, room and board for services rendered. W. Foster spoke for the Baha'i national convention about the Louhelen school. He noted the sessions, and presented that the school was developing new talent and had begun working on a broad new curriculum. In parentheses Marzieh Gail noted the Egglestons had given the school and surrounding land of 9.5 acres to the national community. In September 1947 it was further publicly announced nine and a half acres were transferred to the trusteeship of the national assembly. A deed for the Davison School was set through the Eggleston Trustees for the Benefit of the National Spiritual Assembly of the US and Canada, excluding their residence, was set during 1947, with preliminary steps were being taken to purchase the residence to preserve the organic unity of the establishment. The 1948-9 national budget showed $1800 - this amount was for the primary residence of the Egglestons associated with the school, and the school in general and its land was a gift. It was also claried the total land acquired was \"about 11 acres.\" The residence and about 2 acres (about 11-9.5) were ultimately purchased for $20K on a valuation of $54K in 1948.\n\nA still longer program took place in the summer of 1947. Junior youth were defined as 10-14 yrs and their program ran June 30 to July 11. Faculty included Peggy True, Paul Becker and Annamarie Matoon. A workshop session July 14–25 followed with faculty Florence Reed, George R. True, Elizabeth Cheney and Lawrence Hautz. A two day converence for parents had directors Sylvia Paine Parmelee and Rexford C. Parmelee. The mid-summer session continued the Parmelee focus on children and parenting July 28-Aug 1. The Laboratory session followed Aug 4-15 led by faculty Archie Tichenor, Gretchen Westervelt, Mathew Bullock and Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick A senior youth session, defined for 15 to 20 yrs, was held Aug 18 to 29 and had faculty of William Sears, Elizabeth Cheney, Arthur Patterson, Helen Patternson, Edith McLaren and Albert Segen. Rates per day per person varied from $1.75 to $3 and individual meals for day visitors was broken out at $0.40 to $0.85.\n\nAttending from Port Huron were Eugene Bradbury, James Loft, Lewis Patterson, Arthur Loft, Shirley Edmunds, Maxine Ann Ketels, Jacqueline Lenk, and Stanley T. Bagley, added member of the Louhelen committee.\n\nThe local Davison township community of Baha'is was listed as 5 people in July 1947. L. W. Eggleston was a member of the 1947 Michigan state regional committee. In December Maye Harvey Gift's talks at Louhelen from the Kitab-i-Iqan were published in \"World Order\".\n\nThe winter session for 1947-8 Helen Eggleston served as registrar again - dates were Dec 26-Jan 1, for either $3 or $3.50/day with faculty Curtis Kelsey and Donald Corbin. The winter session rates were $2-$3 per person per day and was going to include a special Youth Day even and present two classes. Returned….\n\nSome year before 1947 one of the buildings collapsed during what was called a tornado, (there was a tornado in Detroit in 1946.) A picture of the original house and area in 1930 and another from 1947 shows the changes.\n\nIn 1948 three people moved to Davison to aid founding its assembly - Arnold Ketels from Marysville, and George and Mrs. Springston from Flint.\n\nThe Ketels worked registration, housing and meals; some money was spent on equipment and repairs, and total income was $4671 with expenses of $4477, and tax-exemption for the school was obtained. The youth session rate was $1.75 per day, and for the general session between $2 and $3 per day - the rates were generally half or less than for Green Acre and less than those of Geyserville. Margaret Yeutter taught the junior youth school in June, which was followed by a general session in later July. John Haggard gave a talk on the Baha'i Temple in August. Michael Jamir, Paul Becker, and Firuz Kazemzadeh taught classes of the junior youth and youth session. Dorothy Beecher Baker spoke at the last session of the summer. People attended from Lansing, and from Florida.\n\nThe first \"homecoming\" was planned for Sep 4-5 of Louhelen alumni. Very likely more than 150 people attended at least for some hrs. The attendees asked the school committee to make it a regular part of the summer program. It was now considered a tradition to begin each day of the session with prayer and meditation. The first program was a concert and then three periods of discussion followed. One was led by Donald Corbin on the history and growth of the administration including a play written by Ruhiyyih Khanum. The next was by Ellsworth Blackwell, his second appearance on campus, on \"the challenging requirement\". And the last was by Mrs. George A. True, chair of the program committee, with a panel including Edwin Earldley who was chair of the Louhelen maintenance committee reviewing a deep history of the school and operational procedures. A costume party was held the next day with a picnic supper at \"the Glen\". Alumni sent letters from Switzerland, Brazil, and Japan and audio wire recording were presented - a talk on The Seven Valleys, another to accompany a slide presentation, and from the convention talk about Louhelen. Five alumni Latin American pioneers were also present. A letter of pioneers to Puerto Rico was intended for the Louhelen \"homecoming\" for alumni arrived too late but was published in \"Bahá'í News\". It was the first year without the founders directly involved with maintenance and conducting functions now taken on by committees. Arnold Ketels was the resident director, and the broad organization of the sessions hed been set by Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, now 70 yrs old, though she died in May from a car crash. Others from Olivet, MI, attended.\n\nThe 1948-9 committee was Marguerite True, chair, Helen Eggleston, corresponding secretary, Robert Gaines recording secretary, Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick, Mrs Clinton Wideman, Arnold Ketels, Paul Pettit, Mrs. Addie Miller, and Phyllis Hall. The winter session was advertised, and had Larry Kramer, Alice Bacon, and Elsworth Blackwell as faculty and the Feast of Honor was held in the Eggleston home.\n\nA tentative summary of the 1949 program was published in December 1948 with a teachers training session, two junior youth sessions, a senior youth session, young adult and adult sessions. The plans advanced for the summer 1949 plan as of January. However a period of austerity was imposed for 1949 and 1950 by Shoghi Effendi wherein the summer sessions would not take place at any of the three main Bahá'í schools in order to provide the means to finish the Bahá'í House of Worship (Wilmette, Illinois) for its opening and the priority of the pioneering work in Latin America. Major maintenance was undertaken at the time adding the septic system. A maintenance committee report for 1949-50, composed of Stanley Bagley, chair, Beatrice Earley, secretary, Edwin Eardley, Clinton Wideman, Oscar Ketels and J. Murdoch Eaton, reported that like all Baha'i schools the summer sessions have been closed for 2 years; an inventory process was ongoing and a tenant has been set up in the Eggleston house leased at $75/mth, and the upper floor of the library rented for $400 for four months. In the fall of 1950 Paul Pettit was mentioned on school committee of Louhelen.\n\nAfter having met the goal of the Temple construction funding, Shoghi Effendi and the national assembly re-opened the three schools for the summer of 1951. A tentative program was announced in March, and finalized in April, as follows: Junior youth session 1 ran July 1–6 had faculty Edna Ketels, Laura and Robert Markovich, and Eulie Horne. Junior youth session 2, July 8–13, had faculty Eunice and John Schurcliff, Wima Ridley and Ella Eaton. General session 1 July 15–20 with faculty Harry Jay, Florence Reeb, and Elizabeth Cheney. General session 2, July 22-7, had faculty Margery McCormick, Archive Tichenor, and Elizabeth Cheney. General session 3, July 22-August 3, had faculty Horace Holley and Alice Bacon. General session 4, August 5–10, had faculty Terah Cowart-Smith, Ellsworth Blackwell, and Harlan Ober. General session 5, August 12–17, had faculty Marzieh Gail, John Robarts, and Curtis Kesley. Senior youth session, August 19–24, had faculty Richard Nolan, Marguerite True, and Marzieh Gail. The young adult session had faculty Borah Kavelin, Elsie Austin and Audrey Windheiser. Each session would begin with a social gathering and end with public meetings. Rates for room and board per day varied from $2.25 to $4. There would be a homecoming session September 2–3 scheduled to be run by Paul Pettit, Michael Jamir, and the Lansing Baha'i community. The maintenance and program committees for Louhelen met at the Bagley home in Flint in March. A significant decision was to offer child care for children 4 yrs old or older for parents attending sessions at a discount from the regular rates - probably half the regular cost. As all the sessions were centered on published texts, individuals were encouraged to bring their own copies but could buy then at the school - to facilitate the aim of \"a profound study of the Faith, and not mere wide, but superficial, surveys.\" The maintenance committee was hoping to provide hot water showers for the first time, and was looking for volunteers to help clean up before the sessions. Clinton and Mrs Wideman served as joint managers of the school. Among those who presented about the African focus of pioneering were Robert Wolff, Ernest Welsing, Larry Hautz, Matthew Bullock, Ellsworth Blackwell, and John Robarts. Baha'is attended for Port Huron, MI, and talks about one or another of the faculty were covered in one or another newspaper. The Homecoming event included Bahá'ís from Lansing - Richard and Mrs. Nolen, William H and Mrs. Smith, Sophia Butterfield, Calvin Tillman, Gordon and Mrs. Fraser, and Fauna Taylor. A letter from the national assembly summarized the 1951 summer season - an attendance of 360 people, $600 worth of Baha'i literature sold, a total income of $3922 and costs of $3241 during the school though these did not cover advance costs and insurance. Two letters on behalf of Shoghi Effendi were written to youth sessions and were published in March 1952, and reinterated in December. Another letter was published in 1998 from that summer school session as well. Vera Esinhart attended Louhelen supporting the nursery.\n\nFor the Fall of 1951 the committee of Ernest and Mrs. Benner, Mrs. Bruce Thomas, Mrs. Charlie Lenk, Mrs. O. J. Ketels and daughter Maxine, and Elizabeth Knill, gathered to plan for the next season's cycle of presentations. Vera D. Esinhart was back to work in the nursery. Faculty include Mrs. Bagley, and her husband Stanley.\n\nThe 1951-2 winter school had a session December 23-5 on effective study of Baha'i scriptures, and another was held December 28 - January 1 with three topics - early history, coming history, and living in the present. Grethen Westervelt was the guest of O J and Mrs. Ketels.\n\nIn the Spring of 1951 Louhelen Eggleston had attended from Western Michigan University,(WMU) where she worked on the campus \"Herald\" newspaper. Lou Eggleston was profiled in the local news late in 1951. and again in March 1952. Lou died the next year. September 11, 1953 a telegram was sent on news of the death of Eggleston. Nevertheless the farm was noted selling 5 lb bags of wheat flour in 1953, and 1958. Louhelen Eggelston graduated in 1953 from WMU with a BA in Business Education, was the historian recorder of the Beto Iota chapter of the Kappa Delta Pi honor society and a member of Future Teachers of America.\n\nSummer 1952 started with a junior youth session. W. Kenneth Christian of Michigan State University, Harlan and Mrs. Ober, and Elizabeth Kidder, and Horace Holley were among the faculty while attendees came from Port Huron, MI, and a group came from Peoria, IL: Richard and Mrs. Wright, Ann Liner and son Michael, Sallie Kinsinger, Pearle Easterbrook, Zoe Meyer, Esther Wilson, June Miller and Imogene Talbott. Later summer faculty included Ruth Moffett, Archie Titchenor, Pearl Easterbrook, William Randolph Lacey, Helen Eggleston, Ellsworth Blackwell, Etta Catlin were faculty in later July, followed by Ruth Moffett, Helen Eggleston, Peggy True, and Lawrence Hautz progressively through August. A picture of attendees of one of the sessions was published in \"Bahá'í News\" in October, and a color slide set with script was published for the \"Louhelen story\" in December.\n\nJanuary 1953 Richard Gaines was chair of the Louhelen committee.\n\nThe summer 1953 tentative program was announced in March. The sessions outlined included Baha'i history, arts and crafts, and comparative religion, \"Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh\", a Baha'i appreciation of geography, family relations, the UN, Islam, and pioneering. Matthew Bullock was scheduled for a program on \"The New Africa.\" Advertising for the sessions included in \"The Chicago Defender\". The 1953 Flint–Beecher tornado passed through the area in June a few miles to the north. Despite the damage in the area, the school opened. Hands of the Cause Taráz'u'lláh Samandarí and Shu'á'u'lláh `Alá'í visited the junior youth session. Richard Nolen gave a talk for the Centenary of 1953 (1853) and coverage mentioned he was both chair of Assembly and vice chair of the Louhelen committee. Attendees came from Hamburg, NY, Lawrence Hautz and MSU professor Bennet were among the faculty - the Wayne State student newspaper and others noted a UN oriented talk. Robert Wolff, Margaret Ruhe, Florence Reeb taught classes, while Mary Georgia attended from Binghamton, NU. Later sessions included on Islam by Elizabeth Cheney, and Jon Faily on Iran.\n\nThe winter session was published in December aimed at the topic of the World Crusade with Rebecca Wideman as registrar. Mrs Dudley Blakely taught in the winter session.\n\nMrs. Marvin Nochman of WSU was among the early faculty advertised for the 1954 season, and the program committee of Laura Post, Helen Eggleston, Lestor Long, and William Lacey was announced.\n\nThe declared priority of the 1954 season was for the Ten Year Crusade with a line of action on children on the religion, arts and crafts, and recreation, so that parents could attend sessions, and a daily introduction to the religion was set for any speakers; all from July 5 to Sep 3. Ona Koppe shared events when she returned to Obio. while local coverage in Port Huron mentioned Laurence Hautz giving a talk with color slides. Quentin Farrand from Lansing also spoke. while a Bahá'í attended Magengo, IL. Weekly meetings were established approaching mid-August and Lois Nochman gave a talk. A larger group of Bahá'ís from Hamburg, NY, atteded: James B. and Mrs. McCloskey, sons of Eugene and Mrs. Thorpe - Keith and David - Harry and Mrs. Pringle and daughter Bonnie, Nemat Borhani, Marion Joseph, Hbarjan Hayre, George Peng, and John Holby. Ellsworth Blackwell both represented the NAACP and the Baha'i Faith at a presentation. In the summer of 1954 newly designated Auxiliary Board member Margery McCormick visited among Michigan and other state travels, along with William deForge.\n\nThe first state wide convention of Bahá'ís held at Louhelen attracted 160 attendees in early December. The following winter session was set to review the Crusade, the Guardianship, and \"Some Answered Questions\". with faculty Edith McLaren, Bert Rakowski, and Marjorie McCormick.\n\nThe program for the summer 1955 season was published in May. It started with a Central States area teaching conference July 2–4, followed immediately by a junior youth session July 5–15, and then an institute for child education July 16–17. A general family session was set July 18–29, then a two day session on Islam, a second general family session August 1–5, and a 2 day session on Israel. Then a third family session, a weekend on pioneering, a fourth general session, a weekend on public relations, a senior youth session August 22-September 2, and the homecoming session September 3–5 rounded out the summer. The family sessions would include children's programs as well. Violet Wuerfel was chair of the program committee and general members were Robert Gaines, Dorothy Hoffman, Helen McClusky, Katherine Mills, Lois Nochman, and Joe Zabelski.\n\nThat winter Grace von der Heydt came from SC.\n\nLouhelen Eggleston, daughter of Lou and Helen, joined the committee late early in 1955. The February 1955 issue of \"Bahá'í News\" presented a call for new teachers and courses. That year Dempsey and Adrienne Morgan joined the religion while they attended a session. That spring Louhelen hosted a multi-faith panel of Wayne State students - Mulsim, Hindu and Buddhist - while Jane Faily presented about the Baha'is.\n\nBahá'ís attended from Port Huron, MI, and Mattoon, IL. Joseph Zabelski, Ruth Moffett, and Hamilton Niss were among the faculty. The summer season had more than 200 attended the summer sessions and their names sent back to their area assemblies to aide promoting activities in their home areas. Auxiliary Board member William deForge attended as well. Lynn Markovich Bryant recalled attending in 1956 as well.\n\nEnthusiasm of a youth conference led to another in November.\n\n1955-6 winter session was announced, and included a talk by Sam Clark of the board of Louhelen.\n\nAs of January 1 the school was renamed \"Davison Baha'i School\". The 25th summer session of the school was held in 1956 and a brief program outline was published in March. An increased budget was allotted to Louhelen for repairs in later April, perhaps related to the widespread storms in early April more damaging on the eastern side of the state.\n\nThis year family sessions were the norm instead of separate sessions for youth. The first general session ran July 1–14 for topics Baha'i heroes and Assemblies; the second session ran July 15–21 on the Kitab-i-Iqan, Shoghi Effendi as Guardian, and researching for talks; session 3 ran July 22-8 with stories of `Abdu'l-Bahá; session 4 was on the Baha'i view of progressive revelation and our relationship with God; session 5 was in mid-August 12-8, for firesides on the topic of the writings of the central figures of the religion; session 6 was on progressive revelation, the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh, a choir, and homecoming September 1–3. The subject of the Bahá'ís covenant was underscored in another report. Harlan Ober returned for the anniversary week event July 29-August 1, along with Stanwood Cobb. Hamilton Niss was also a faculty. Attendees came including from Iowa, and New York.\n\nThe winter session was held with four courses of study.\n\nThe 1957 program committee was David Baral, Stanley Brogan, Sam Clark, Phyllis Hall, Hamilton Niss, Lois Nochman, Ralph Peotter Jr, Jane Rowe, Donald T. Streets, and Violet Wuerfel. Nochman was elected secretary. An additional event in 1957 was the first Baha'i sponsored Brotherhood of Negro History Week in Port Huron with Helen Eggleston representing the Bahá'í among a panel that included along with University of Michigan students of Muslim and Buddhist, Catholics, protestant and Latter Day Saints, and Jews Mrs. Dempsey Morgan, who had joined the religion at Louhelen in 1955 gave a presentation on \"History of the Negro Race\".\n\nSummer sessions would include children and all-family sessions, jr youth, and senior youth, with costs ranging from $3 to $4 per day per person. The registrar was Judy Long. Among the faculty was Maude A. Tollefson.\n\nBahá'í from Washtenaw County were noted among those attending the state convention in early December, followed by the winter session with several attendees from Port Huron.\n\nThe 1958 school committee was Stanley Brogan, chair, Lois Nochman, secretary, and members Wallace Baldwin, Elizabeth Brogan, Phyllis Hall, Lester Long, Mabel Long, Betty Weston and Violet Wuertel.\n\nSix sessions were held. Early session faculty included Ellsworth Blackwell, and Rob Jacobs, and attendees came from Port Huron Later session faculty included Mrs. Leo Weston, former minister A. S. Petchold, and Winston Evans. Over 325 people registered for the summer courses, managed by Elva and Mrs. Green and program director was Etta Catlin. Faculty for later session included Lois Nochman, Marjorie Brown, Edith McLaren, Michael Jamir, John and Madeline Byers, Robert and Elinor Wolff, and music direction by Esther Wilson, with subjects like problems facing Christian culture, and youth sessions specifically included socialization with members of other races. Speakers for public talks included Ellsworth Blackwell, Pearl Easterbrook, Robert Gaines, A. S. Petzoldt, Ruth Moffett, Bula Mott Stewart, Ron Jacobs, and Betty Weston and Winston Evans. Ruth Moffett was also there.\n\nThe winter state convention again noted Bahá'ís from Port Huron attending. The winter session afterwards had registrar Alice Luther and a rate of $4/day. The program featured Christian topics. An attendee also came from Illinois.\n\nIn 1959 high school junior Paula Akemann gave a talk in Indiana with the newspaper mention noting she had attended Louhelen school 5 years. The school went on with the return of Bill Sears, (first present in 1937 and last in 1947, now returned to America and as a Hand of the Cause,) and Mrs. W. W. Robinson too.\n\nAttending the December state convention at Louhelen were Bahá'ís from Port Huron.\n\nThe earlier 1960s the school sessions had relatively little coverage. Sessions in 1960 were held. Faculty across the summer included George Winder, Curtis Kelsey, Ludmila Van Sombeek, Ruth Williams, and Mrs. John O. Honnold. The late session began in later August.\n\nAt the 1961 session George and Mrs. Winder were some of the faculty,</ref> and Bahá'ís from Port Huron were noted attending the state convention.\n\nIn 1962 Mrs. Williams was among the faculty and coverage noted she had had experience from Frogmore, SC. Rates for the 1962 summer course ranged from $2.25 to $4.75 There was a month long session, that included a rally on race unity with participants giving reports on inter-racial problems including from Donald Streets, Riaz Khadem, Richard Reid, Rhea Akermann, and music for the event given by Eddy Blue. 250 Baha'is gathered September 2 to hear Allan Ward review `Abdu'l-Bahá's journey in America.\n\nThat fall an advertising campaign promoted the claims of Bahá'u'lláh in Detroit associated with some meetings organized by Winston Evans, and the contact point in all the advertisements was the Louhelen School. Advertisements continued into the later Fall.\n\n1963 Paul Pettit on Louhelen school committee, Keith Thorp talks at meeting, taught at Davison (Louhelen) and Geyserville schools. attended Louhelen Baha'i School, taught classes George and Jean McLaughlin. Gerald Curwin director of Louhelen.\n\nIn January 1963, Louhelen Eggleston married Charles Hassan in Detroit Michigan. She was still alive in 2009, having earned master's degree in 1988 in public history at the University of San Diego. Her brother Lewis W. \"Buzz\" Eggleston Jr. died in 2002 in Greenville, SC.\n\nIn 1964 a project developed among the Bahá'ís supporting race unity - the same period as the Freedom Summer campaign - with connections at Louhelen and the burgeoning Bahá'í community of Greenville, SC. The civic society there was integrating its schools that Fall. Training sessions for a project were noted in the \"Bahá'í News\" in August at Louhelen. Some 80 youth attended the training in mid-June. The faculty included Dan and Mrs. Jordan, Jack McCants, Firuz Kazemzadeh, Sarah Pereira, Bettija Walker, Douglas Martin, Jamison Bond, George F. Hutchon, Richard Thomas, Albert Porter, Irvine Lourie, Glenford Mitchell, Alyce Earl, Charles Abercrombie, Ruth Perrin, Ken Jeffers, Richard Greeley, and Tom Hooper, plus youth faculty of Robert Walker, Douglas Ruhe, Roger Williams, with management by Emanuel Reimer and Virgil Ghant, and administration by David and Mrs. Ruhe. After the classes in various subjects 27 individuals went to 8 locations: Greenville, SC, Atlanta, GA, locations in MN, NM, AZ, MI and DC. Six youth went to Greenville under the sponsorship of the local assembly for a 6 week program. Karl Borden, Edson Hockenbury, Marian Parmelee, Douglas Ruhe, Patsy Sims were joined by Richard Thomas, and local youth Eddie Donald, Curtis Butler, the Abercrombies, William Smith, (whom Richard Thomas later collaborated with,) and Steven Moore. They worked on tutoring some 55 blacks students about to attend newly integrating schools, rural proclamation of the religion, and human rights activities focused on the black minority. The work was capped with a parent-teacher banquet reception at a church and a picnic for the students conducted by the Bahá'í teachers. Firesides were held widely in rural areas around Greenville which featured singing, and the group supported petitioning for the public swimming pool being integrated.\n\nThere were some local newspaper stories and photographs about Louhelen in August 1965. Thelma Cooley, Linda Drake, Glenn Morgan, Susan McMann, Gregory Dahl and Richard Kochman went to Indianpolis to staff a project promoting the religion from Louhelen. They specifically reached out to Haughville, a low-income black community, and two middle-income integrated and white areas. Some 550 homes were visited, 150 contacts made, 35 serious inquiries were made, 10 undertook what was felt to be serious study of the religion, and seven joined the religion. Susan McMann extended her stay in the area. Later another team of Carolyn, Linda and Susan Drake, Terence and Sheila Amerson undertook a public meeting and group discussions in Racine, WI, following their stay at Louhelen.\n\nA larger photo of youth attendees was published in \"Bahá'í News\" from their conference in later March, 1967. Over 100 youth attended the session. Messages were received from the Universal House of Justice, Hands of the Cause, and the National Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States. The main subject of the session was around the June 1966 message from the House reviewing significant Bahá'í youth from the earlier period of Bahá'í history as well as more contemporary history, the processes Bahá'ís see of construction and destruction going on in the world, the spiritual nature of humanity, dedication in life, the tests foreseen in the \"World Order of Bahá'u'lláh\" by Shoghi Effendi and the difference and relationship of the Bahá'í views of revelation and knowledge. Auxiliary Members Velma Sherrill, Don Streets, Hamilton Niss, and Peter Khan assisted.\n\nThe 40th year program for the summer of 1972 included a visit by Hand of the Cause Ali-Akbar Furutan. The Homecoming weekend had faculty George Frye and Kay Harris sharing their expereiences in the South,(see for example Bahá'í Faith in South Carolina,) and then moved into the surrounding area including the Vassar area.\n\nThe school was closed by the National Assembly in 1974 for unsafe conditions in building(s).\n\nHelen Eggleston died in 1979.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Louhelen underwent tremendous change, removing older buildings and erecting new ones.\n\nThe meeting of the national assembly of the Bahá'ís in May 1980 approved the restoration concepts and proceeded to raise money. Ground breaking began September 1, 1980, hoping to re-open in 1981 for its 50th anniversary. The Library was to be repurposed as an archives, the former auditorium would become a storage building and the main original buildings would be restored to the 1930s form. The Pullman dormitory and four cottages would be demolished. The new buildings would include a lodge center with kitchen, lounge, bookstore, and admin offices. A new classroom building would have 5 classrooms with their own external patio, an arts/crafts room, and a nursery. Housing would be provides with 24 suites with space for 130 people.\n\nIn 1981 plans for the reconstruction of Louhelen were approved. Fundraising was in the form of promissary notes issued by the Baha'i national treasury over the previous year. The 50th anniversary of Louhelen school was held; Magdalene Carney gave a talk - attendees from Lansing included Lisa Irish, Steven Gonzales, Michigan State professors Richard and June Thomas, Robert and Candice Voight, and Eric Harmsen. Others attended from Port Huron. In 1982 final construction was proceeding. The experience at Louhelen was used in a 1984 renovation of the Baha'i Temple by Frederick McCoy. Some 1000 Baha'is attended the grand re-opening of the renovated Louhelen school in October 1982, also attended by Hand of the Cause Dhikru'llah Khadem, members of the National Assembly and various committees. A banquet was held with some 480 Baha'is including those who remembered the founders. The new Director of administration was William Deil and the director of academic affairs was Geoffrey W. Marks. One of the days was devoted to reviewing the school and a number of presentations were made: \"Lou and Helen Eggleston and the early years of the Louhelen School\" by Robert Gaines, \"The Development of Plans to Reconstruct Louhelen\" by the project committee, \"The Reconstruction Project\" by Sirouss Binaei, general manager, and \"Louhelen as a Center of Baha'i learning\" by Marks and Diehl. The renovation project cost $1.9 million and started Sep 6, 1981. The campus had been closed in 1974 because the buildings had reached an unsafe condition, and then after a two year program of raising money with a Faizi Endowment, created in memory of Hand of the Cause Abu'l-Qasim Faizi for the renovation it began. … The school was reformed into a place centered as a conference and retreat center and William Diehl came as its director but specifically set aside a school function - a residential college associated with nearby colleges - UoM@Flint or the local community college and at the time maintained a teaching position at the UoM@F. The first event at the school was a youth conference, the Midwestern Regional Conference of the Association for Baha'i Studies, in November 1982. The local \"Davison Index\" noted the construction as well: \"New construction and renovation of older building is nearly complete at Louhelen Baha'i School on South State Road in Davison Township. The new school will bring an expected 7,000 members of the Baha'i faith to the Davison area for conference classes and retreats.\" In 1983, the National Spiritual Assembly opened the buildings which currently comprise Louhelen. This included restoring the original residence to its 1930s form. Two of the original national youth committee, and early attendees at Louhelen, Florence Mattoon Zmeskal, and Sylvia Paine Parmelee, attended the re-opening event.\n\nLouhelen co-sponsored and hosted a \"Marriage Institute\" in August, 1983, under Hossain Danesh, a professor at the University of Ottawa as well as a member of the executive committee of the Association for Baha'i Studies, with assistance from professor at the University of Alberta, Glen Eyford, therapists Ruth Eyford and Mary Kay Radpour, and psychiatrist Sam McClellan. About 30 couples, five single people, and 35 children, 45 of whom were Canadian, filled the campus to capacity. Follow-up studies would follow the couples at 6 mths and a year after the institute.\n\nIn 1984 Louhelen hosted a conference of youth followed by a conference called by the national assembly in May bringing together members of the Continental Counselors Farzam Arbab, Sarah Martin Pereira, Fred Schechter, and Velma Sherril, working on the Campaign for unified action. A socio-economic development project counted in a survey of projects under the initiative of the Universal House of Justice from 1983 was established in the summer of 1984 at Louhelen. It was called the Center for Interracial Understanding by some Michigan Baha'is with expertise in race relations, education and business. Another project called a residential college program, was founded at Louhelen in September 1985, and was part of its conception. It was announced in March 1986 it was accepting applications for the September 1986 enrollment combining formal study of the religion with a degree earning study at one or two nearby colleges. Students would live and work at the school, receive training, and go to one of these schools.\n\nIn 1985 a symposium was held at Louhelen named \"We are the world\" after the song. Another conference held at Louhelen was on \"Feminism and Holy Maiden\". And Hooper Dunbar spoke at Louhelen in 1985.\n\nGeoffrey Marks was academic director at Louhelen and gave a presentation at the Saginaw Valley State College on Feb 6, 1986.\n\nMartha Diefenbach attended a child education institute at Louhelen and was a co-coordinator of the South Louisiana Baha'i education program called LEAP in 1987.\n\nIn 1988 a play on Tahirieh by Louhelen Theater Group performs (two places?). Tahirih play by Louhelen Youth theatre .\n\nFor 5 yrs before 1991 Native American culture and grandparents at Louhelen (Baha'i) Conference Center in winter. Apr 1991 Christopher Buck…\n\nThe 1990 annual report noted cooperating with the Mid-Western regional committee of the Association for Baha'i Studies and the English Department of the Universityh of Michigan honoring Robert Hayden. The report also mentioned 11 local community groups had been hosted - UoM-Flint weekly Cultural Anthropology class, as well as the regular meetings for the Adult Children of Alcoholics association, a program for multi-cultural awareness for a local bank, and the directory presented talks to literacy programs for the community as well as Baha'is from South Carolina.… \n\nLike a desert.\n\n1992 - Rick Johnson (Louhelen). Rick Johnson of Louhelen.\n\n1993 Kate Draves….\n\n1994 Ridvan at Louhelen school, videos shown on tv. Caitlin Rogell, 8 yr old, banner/poster on racism flown; Dorothy Gemmill, inc Louhelen. A program \"America's destiny was held in the summer.\n\nDale Malner held an exhibition there in March 1995.\n\nIn the 1990s Heather Cardin considered how to use the curriculum development implemented at Louhelen over at Fort Hays State College.\n\n1996 Peter Murphy already won Louhelen award.\n\n1997 Baha'i wedding of Dawn Vincent and Chad Dumas at Louhelen by directors Barbara and Rick Johnson. Jane Beasley and Cate Vance offer parenting workshops, returned from Louhelen school.\n\nOctober, 1998, Robert Stockman,\n\n2000-2001 conference and American Baha'is.\n\nTom Padfield Eagle Scout; service Baha'i workshop, camp counselor, Louhelen counselor.\n\nA new auditorium was added in 2001. Students volunteered year of service. and….\n\n2003 'Irfán Colloquium held a conference at Louhelen. The Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Lancaster offered a workshop on \"Marriage and Family Life\" by Mike and Georgia Keller, for married couples Marietta. They trained at the Louhelen Baha'i Core Curriculum Training Center in Davison, Mich.\n\n2004 Irfan Colloquia Session #58 (English) Louhelen Bahá'í School: Davison, Michigan, USA October 8–11, 2004.\n\nCheryl Sensabaugh and I just returned from five days at the Louhelen Baha'i retreat near Davison, Michigan. Our 5 day workshop was called Sing- Sing -Sing- an opportunity to once again sing under the direction Van Gilmer from the Washington DC area.\n\nApr 2006 Christopher Buck…. Wilmette Institute program moves from Chicago to Louhelen.\n\n2007 youth presentation, Animator training for Ruhi Institute. \"Elena Winkler and Kian Weber are both 19 years old and are here to volunteer at Louhelen Baha'i School for a year. They will talk about their home country and their impressions of America so far (at the Davison area library). Both speak German, French, and English. Winkler will study fashion in college and Weber will do sports-related studies. He plays soccer.\"\n\n2008 Andy Grammar at Louhelen. There was also a discussion about the Canadian TV production Little Mosque on the Prairie. \"annual Celebrating Women Celebration from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Saturday, March 8. Set as a performing arts collage incorporating music, poetry, story telling and dance by Michigan artists, the evening celebrates women and their role in shaping history and the future. Activities will include Connie Moore's modern dance, an African modern dance; poetry by Lila Bjaland and other local artists; storytelling by Alfreda Harris; paintings and art work by Margrit Schattler, Julietta Chevalier, Lila Bjaland; and songs performed by Corinne Taborn, Ruhiyyih Yuille and more.\"\n\nIn 2009 an interfaith service had attracted enough Native Americans that the events turned into a powwow. Overall some 20,000 people receive some kind of service through Louhelen. A film project was produced. \"Baha'is in Davison Township will host a public meeting of prayer June 7 to mark the one-year anniversary of the imprisonment of seven Baha'i leaders in Iran, who have spent a year in jail without formal charges or access to their lawyer, Shirin Ebadi.\n\nThe families of the prisoners were recently informed that a new accusation has been lodged against them by the Iranian government, the charge of \"spreading corruption on earth,\" which carries the threat of death under Iran's penal code.\nThe public meeting, to be held in the Louhelen Baha'i School Prayer Refuge at 3:30 p.m., will include brief presentations by two special guests: Pegah Ouji, a Baha'i who immigrated to the United States from Iran in 2006 and Mandana Moshrafzadeh, a Baha'i from Minneapolis who was born in Iran and has relatives who have been persecuted there.\"\n\n2010 interview about Louhelen by William Diehl; 5 yrs of project where Louhelen was a dorm for students taking college courses nearby like the University of Michigan.\n\nIn 2011 Natalie Guerrero was a youth mentor onsite. In October the `Irfan Colloquia was hosted at Louhelen. One of the presentations was recorded.\n\nFebruary 2012 Christopher Buck, Ruhiyyih N. Yuille served there from the 1990s until she returned to Los Angeles and ran for the local school board. `Irfan colloguia was held onsite in October.\n\n2013 a number of youth projects were posted to youtube.\n\nMemoir. Kevin Locke performance. \"Edward Phillips saw an announcement in the newspaper that the city of Davison was holding a design contest for a logo for its 125th anniversary, he decided it was something he wanted to be a part of. Phillips, 55, assistant facility manager for the LouHelen Baha'i School, 3208 S. State Rd., in Davison Township, said he is also an artist and graphic artist in his spare time.\"\n\n2015…Barbara K. V. Johnson previously served as Co-Administrator at Louhelen Bahá'í School in the United States and Director of the National Teacher Training Center, also at Louhelen; her doctorate is in the field of Global Education. The Louhelen Library came online, joining the US National Archives of materials, in 2015 listing some 5,700 books.\n\n2016 Facilitative Leadership Workshop for Youth-Serving Professionals & Volunteers. and the 2016 `Irfan colloquia.\n\nApril 2017 the Religion and Society Working Group of the Association for Bahá'í Studies met at Louhelen.\n\n"}
{"id": "9157132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9157132", "title": "Miracle of Love", "text": "Miracle of Love\n\nThe Miracle of Love is a new religious movement based in Denver, Colorado. Miracle of Love now goes by the name Center For the Golden One. Until 2010 it was headed by two leaders, Kalindi La Gourasana and The Lady, described by the organization as fully realized spiritual masters. The group's stated mission is to break people free from the cycle of birth and death and bring them home to God in this lifetime. The central guidance on how to do this derives from the teachings of Gourasana, a benevolent being.\n\nThe Miracle of Love was started in 1987 by David Swanson, his wife Carole Seidman (who took the name Kalindi) and The Lady, and several other persons. This is when the benevolent Being Gourasana is believed to have entered David Swanson's body as \"an Incarnation of God manifesting on Earth\". After David Swanson's death in 1995, Gourasana is said to have begun speaking through Kalindi. Kalindi died on April 18, 2010\n\nA trademark request for \"Gourasana Meditation Practice\" was filed in 1996 by Church of Exodus in San Diego, California.\n\nA 2009 press release announced that the Miracle of Love Seminar was being offered in a shorter, 5-day format led by Cole Kaplan, a disciple of Kalindi. The release says that the seminar was first offered in San Diego, California, in 1991, and that over 5,000 people had participated since then at locations in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Australia.\n\nThe Miracle of Love teaches that this material plane of existence is one of duality, with inevitable pain, suffering, and death, to which we are locked by our attachments, and these attachments cause us to be reborn in a cycle of reincarnation.\n\nThe Miracle of Love teaches that people can break free of this cycle and achieve full union with God in this lifetime by surrendering the ego and separate will to God, following the guidance of the leaders, giving in service, and using the special assistance provided by Lord Gourasana in the \"Gourasana Meditation Practice\" to break material and conceptual attachments.\n\nThe Miracle of Love has been described by the \"Pacific Sun\" newspaper as having aspects of a large group awareness training (LGAT) group.\n\n"}
{"id": "84547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84547", "title": "Mnestheus", "text": "Mnestheus\n\nMnestheus is a character from Roman mythology, found in Virgil's \"Aeneid\". He is described by Virgil as the ancestral hero of the Memmii and \"Of the house of Assaracus\". One of a handful of vaguely defined lieutenants under Aeneas, he appears to be Aeneas's most senior captain, taking charge in Book 9 in his absence. He takes second place in the boat race during the funeral games of Anchises in Book 5.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331639", "title": "Moderately prosperous society", "text": "Moderately prosperous society\n\nModerately prosperous society () is a Chinese term, originally of Confucianism, used to describe a society composed of a functional middle-class. The term is best known in recent years through its use by Hu Jintao, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China between 2002 and 2012, when referring to economic policies intended to realize a more equal distribution of wealth.\n\nIn the usages (\"tifa\") of current General Secretary Xi Jinping, the term \"China dream\" or \"Chinese dream\" has gained somewhat greater prominence. During the annual National Party Congress meeting of 2015, Xi unveiled a set of political slogans called the Four Comprehensives, which include \"Comprehensively build a moderately prosperous society.\"\n\nIt has been loosely translated as a \"basically well-off\" society in which the people are able to live relatively comfortably, albeit ordinarily. The term was first used in \"Classic of Poetry\" written as early as 3,000 years ago. \"Xiaokang\" may be associated with an Engel's coefficient of 40-50 percent.\n\nChinese leader Deng Xiaoping used the terms \"Xiaokang society\" in 1979 as the eventual goal of Chinese modernization.\n\nThe vision of a \"xiaokang\" society is one in which most people are moderately well off and middle class, and in which economic prosperity is sufficient to move most of the population in mainland China into comfortable means, but in which economic advancement is not the sole focus of society. Explicitly incorporated into the concept of a \"Xiaokang\" society is the idea that economic growth needs to be balanced with sometimes conflicting goals of social equality and environmental protection.\n\nThe current usage of the term also invokes Chinese philosophy in support of modern socialism with Chinese characteristics. In Chinese writings, a \"xiaokang\" society was the predecessor to the Great Unity. There is a rough correspondence between this progression and the progression in Chinese Marxism between a market socialist society and world communism.\n\nThe revival of the concept of a \"Xiaokang\" Society was in part a criticism of social trends in mainland China in the 1990s under Jiang Zemin, in which many in China felt was focusing too much on the newly rich and not enough on mainland China's rural poor. Furthermore, there has been a fear in some circles that Chinese society has become too materialistic placing material wealth above all other social needs.\n\nIn contrast to previous concepts such as the spiritual civilization and the campaigns against bourgeois liberalization in the 1980s, the concept of the \"Xiaokang\" society does not involve heroic self-sacrifice and does not place the material and the spiritual in opposition. The vision of a \"Xiaokang\" society sees the need for economic growth to provide prosperity, but it sees the need for this prosperity to be broadly distributed.\n\nIn addition, the concept of a \"Xiaokang\" society is the first time in which the Communist Party of China has used a classical Chinese concept to legitimize its vision for the future of China. Its recent use has been associated with Hu Jintao and Wen Jiabao as a goal for mainland China to reach by the year 2020.\n\n\"Xiaokang\" is also a name for a semi-monthly magazine that is affiliated to the Qiushi Magazine, the party-run magazine in Beijing. Started in 2004, it mainly focuses on the political and economic development in China. Referred to itself as \"Insight China\", \"Xiaokang\" defines itself as a magazine that voices public opinions and discuss the current affairs regarding the Chinese Politics and social cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "23817612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23817612", "title": "Oracle of the Potter", "text": "Oracle of the Potter\n\nThe Oracle of the Potter is a Hellenistic Egyptian prophetic text, originally written in Demotic Egyptian in the 3rd century BC. However, there are only five remaining Greek manuscript copies of the document on papyrus (parts of two manuscripts were rewritten, likely in the 2nd century BC following the failed rebellion of Harsiesis in 132-130 BC) dated to the 2nd or 3rd centuries AD during the Roman rule of Egypt. A potter is the prophet and protagonist of the story, an allusion to Khnum, the \"Lord of the potter's wheel\" who fashioned the world in Egyptian mythology.\nThe text was composed as anti-Ptolemaic propaganda: the potter tells the king Amenophis/Amenhotep, who writes everything down and reveals it to all men, of the future chaos and destruction that will follow the unfair, foreign rule of the Typhon/Set-worshipping \"beltwearers\" (Greeks) whose city (Alexandria) will be deserted when they kill each other in the troubled times. Hephaestus/Ptah will return to Memphis along with Agathos Daimon/Shai (the patron god of Alexandria) who will abandon the beltwearers' city.\n\nThe story is comparable in style, tone, and subject matter to prophetic texts of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, such as the \"Prophecy of Neferti\".\n\n\nGozzoli, Roberto B. (2006). The Writings of History in Ancient Egypt during the First Millennium BC (ca. 1070-180 BC): Trends and Perspectives. London: Golden House Publications, printed and bound by T.J. International. .\n"}
{"id": "41645524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41645524", "title": "Our Lady of Pillar of Imus", "text": "Our Lady of Pillar of Imus\n\nOur Lady of the Pillar of Imus (Spanish: \"Nuestra Señora del Pilar de Imus\") is a venerated image of the Madonna and Child atop a pillar in Imus, Philippines. It is enshrined in the Cathedral of Imus. It is known as the Mother, Queen, and the Patroness of Diocese of Imus and the Province of Cavite. The image was given a canonical coronation by Pope Benedict XVI in 2012.\n\nAccording to the \"Official Archives of the Recollects in the Philippines\" this is the history of the devotion to the Nuestra Señora del Pilar de Imus that was brought in what was then known as \"Hacienda de Imus\".\n\nIn 1623 Fr. Martin Lumbreras Sanches Perez Peralta, ORSA (Blessed Martin de San Nicholas, 1598–1632) came to the Philippines. Fr. Martin, being a native of Zaragoza, had a deep devotion to the Blessed Virgin under the title \"Nuestra Señora del Pilar\". He brought with him an image of Virgen del Pilar which was first brought to the church of San Nicholas de Tolentino at Intramuros, Manila where it was enthroned on a small altar specifically made for the image. The devotion to the Virgen del Pilar grew within the walled city of Intramuros, a group in honor of the Virgin which was called \"Obras Pias de la Nuestra Señora del Pilar\" was formed by a devotee and named Juan de la Virgen del Pilar; this group's goal was to handle the funds of the Church.\n\nOn the 28th of May 1694 the Recollect Friars all agreed that the image of the Virgin of the Pillar be transferred from her small altar in the San Nicholas de Tolentino Church to the Casa Hacienda de Imus (Cuartel at present), the image was temporarily placed in the Enfermaria (a room where priests rest). On the 13th of March 1766 the Recollect Corporation approved a plan to construct a new church in the Hacienda in honor of the Nuestra Señora del Pilar de Imus that the people of Imus often referred to as \"Nana Pilar\" (Our Mother Pillar).\n\nSeveral miracles and explainable events are also narrated by the people of Imus attributed to Nana Pilar, the following are some of the accounts:\n\nOn the 27 of August 2010 Nana Pilar manifested her protection; there was an outing of the young clergy in Morong, Bataan, where young priests, deacons and seminarians joined. While they were swimming in the beach a strong under current brought one of the deacons, Rev. Marco Cyril Convento (now a priest), to the deeper part of the sea. The deacon's companions were in distraught as they tried to save him from drowning. They were starting to fear the worse and started praying for him when all of a sudden the deacon was seen in the shallow part of the sea, without a single trace of injury. In thanksgiving they headed to the nearest church in the area; they were all astonished to find out that the town is also under the patronage of Nuestra Señora del Pilar. Reverend Convento and his companions attribute this miracle to no other than the Patroness of the Diocese of Imus: Nana Pilar, to whom they've dedicated their vocation.\n\nMs. Vida Ramirez Corral accounted two miracles that happened to her mother. First was in 2002, when her mother suffered a stroke caused by a large clot in her brain and an operation should be done immediately to prevent further complications, but as the doctors were about to start the surgery they were surprised to find out that the clot got smaller and the operation was no longer needed. Curious about such an astonishing find, Ms. Corral's mother told them that before the scheduled operation she was visited by Nana Pilar. The Virgin once again showed how powerful prayers through her intercession is when in 2003, Ms. Corral's mother was diagnosed with Cholelthiasis (stones in the gall bladder) and once again scheduled for an operation. Days before the surgery, tests were conducted to know the status of the patient, they find out that not a single trace of the stones could be found, and the operation was no longer needed. Once again Ms. Corral's mother accounted that Nana Pilar visited her in her dreams and touched her affected area.\n\nIn 2001 the Virgin of the Pillar manifested her love for her children when a miracle, through her intercession, happened; It was almost fiesta already when one of the seminarians of the Tahanan ng Mabuting Pastol Seminary, named Conrad Merdeguia, was stricken with Dengue. His platelets were severely low and that the worst thing that could happen to him is to die. Hoping that prayers could help, Bishop Luis Antonio Tagle who was the parish priest of the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Pilar in Imus City asked Conrad's co-seminarians to dance during the Karakol for that year, with only one petition in mind: to ask Nana Pilar's intercession for Conrad's healing. Their prayers were quickly granted when a phone call from the hospital right after the Karakol that Conrad has miraculously recovered from Dengue already and was already out of danger. At present Mr. Merdeguia is already a professor in Theology in a school at Masbate, Philippines.\n\nNot know to many that a Saint of the Roman Catholic Church once served the Parish of Imus. He is St.Ezequiel Moreno OAR. It was in 1892 that Fr. Moreno was sent to be the Administrator of the Hacienda de Imus and to help the parish priest Fray Jose Maria Learte, ORSA with the Cholera epidemic that greatly affected the Hacienda. It is said that Fr. Moreno often prayed in front of the Image of Nana Pilar and ask for the cessation of the Epidemic; the outbreak did kill 3,200 Imuseño, but with the grace of God and intercession of the Blessed Mother it did stop. Fr. Moreno served Imus from 1882 to 1885. He was raised to the Altars as Saint of the Church on October 11, 1992, coincidentally on the eve of the feast of the Virgin of the Pillar, by Pope John Paul II.\n\nIn the late 1940s as the Japanese soldiers were about to leave the county they had a plot to bomb the Isabel bridge near the Cuartel, but this never materialized because a mother carrying her son had stopped them from doing so. Later on when the Japanese soldier went by the church, he marveled at the countenance of the Virgin in the altar for he knew that he had seen the face before. He called the other soldiers and asked them to come and see for themselves the image of the Virgin in the altar. It was then that they all agreed that the Virgin in the Altar is the same woman who stopped them from bombing the Isabel bridge near Cuartel.\n\nIn recent times, the maternal protection radiated by Our Lady of the Pillar to Imuseños is frequently felt, be it through actual miracles or ones that are spiritual felt by her devotees, Nana Pilar's guidance and love has always reign in the hearts of the people of Imus.\n\nAccording to the devotees, the Town of Imus is steadfast because it is being overseen by its Mother and Queen. Calamities and misfortunes are minimized or eventually eliminated because of the loved being shown by the Virgin of the Pillar. Just like the Blessed Apostle James, in time of despair, Imuseños immediately run to their mother, Nana Pilar to ask for her intercession; in times of sickness, the also turn to Nana Pilar for her help and guidance, while some are healed others who are still in their beds with illness are given strength and the ability to accept the will of the Lord.\n\nImus City was formed part of the \"Hacienda de Imus\" owned by the Recollect Fathers in 1686. These include the Encomienda de Binakayan (Binakayan, Kawit) and Perez-Dasmariñas (Dasmariñas City) which is a former barrio of Imus.\n\nLike Cavite City (originally called Cavite La Punta) and Noveleta, Cavite (La Tierra Alta) the Hacienda de Imus (now Imus City) use to be a barrio of Cavite el Viejo (now Kawit, Cavite), whose parish church was built by the Jesuits during the administration of Manila Archbishop, Garcia Serrano, from 1618 to 1329. For more than a century and a half the people of Imus had to endure walking or traveling 4.5 kilometers of dirt road to attend religious services or transact official business in the Cavite el Viejo. The difficulty of communication between Imus and Kawit was long-standing complaint of the Imuseños until another religious order, the Order of Augustinian Recollects, as a consequence to the British occupation of Manila in 1762, established a Parish Church in Imus, in what now known as Bayang Luma (now Bayanluma).\n\nHowever, the church was far from the estate house acquired by the Recollect Corporation, and when the church was destroyed by a strong typhoon of September 1779, the Recollect Friars transferred it to Barrio Toclong and then finally to Sitio de Balangon, now the present site of the church.\n\nIn 1769, the workers of the Hacienda together with the \"Cabezas de barangay\" completed the relocation of their houses into a \"reduccion\". The reduccion was a process of resetting the people near the church called \"Bajo de Campanas\" to facilitate the evangelization of the people and also to put them under the control of the Spanish Authority. The people who refused to live within the reduccion were called \"taong labas\" which often times had the connotation of being lawless people.\n\nWith the establishment of the Recollect Church the people of Imus gained their religious emancipation from the Jesuit run parish of Cavite el Viejo. The Recollects, however, wouldn't be contented with the little victory. In 1774, Racollect Fary Pedro San Buenaventure, ORSA petitioned the government to \"separate the inquilinos of Imus from the political jurisdiction of the government of Cavite el Viejo\". After a considerable time of waiting, the petition was granted and Imus became an independent Municipality on October 3, 1795 (9 days before the Feast of Nuestra Señora del Pilar).\n\nPope Benedict XVI acknowledged the petition of the miracles claimed by devotees in 2012, authorizing the coronation of the image via a Papal bull. The Canonical Coronation was carried out on 3 December 2012 in Imus Cathedral by Luis Antonio Cardinal Tagle in celebration of the Golden Jubilee of the Diocese.\n"}
{"id": "51195816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51195816", "title": "Pancasikha", "text": "Pancasikha\n\nPancasikha is a celestial musician. He was considered favorite of the Buddha.\n"}
{"id": "30502001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30502001", "title": "Pashaura Singh", "text": "Pashaura Singh\n\nPrince Pashaura Singh (1821 – 11 September 1845) (also \"Peshawara Singh\") was one of the sons of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. His mother was Rani Daya Kaur. After the assassination of Maharaja Sher Singh he made a bid for the throne of the Sikh Empire.\n\nLittle is recorded about the early life of Pashaura Singh during the reigns of Ranjit Singh and his first four successors. After the assassination, on 15 September 1843, of Maharaha Sher Singh and his vizier Raja Dhian Singh Dogra, the Khalsa proclaimed Duleep Singh as Maharaja and Dhian Singh’s son, Hira Singh Dogra, as vizier. \n\nLater that year Pashaura Singh and his elder brother, Kashmira Singh, are recorded as having joined the camp of the holy man, Baba Bir Singh at Nauraṅgābād, near Tarn Tāran. The camp had become the centre of Sikh revolt against the dominance of the Dogras and was a base for several Sikh sardars and commanders and a volunteer army of 1,200 musket men and 3,000 horse. In May 1844 Hira Singh despatched a force of 20,000 men and 50 cannon under the command of Mian Labh Singh to destroy Bir Singh’s camp. Bir Singh told his men not to fight “How can we attack our brethren?” He was killed by a shell while meditating over the Holy Book. Kashmira Singh was also killed in the cannonade, but Pashaura Singh escaped.\n\nPashaura Singh visited Lahore later in 1844 in an unsuccessful attempt to form an alliance with Hira Singh, who, however had his own problems. He had lost favour with the Khalsa, because of several unpopular actions, including: his involvement in the death of Bir Singh, his confiscation of the jagirs of some of the army commanders, and his attempt to poison the Regent, Maharani Jind Kaur. He escaped from Lahore with several loads of gold and silver stolen from the treasury, but was pursued by the army, who killed him on 21 December 1844.\n\nDuring the second half of 1844, Pashaura Singh travelled around the Punjab seeking support against the Dogras. He crossed the Sutlej River and visited the British cantonment at Ferozepur. However, the British were unresponsive, being already in negotiation with Gulab Singh Dogra, brother of Dhian Singh.\n\nOn learning of the death of Hira Singh, Pashaura Singh returned to Lahore on 1 January 1845. He was received with honour and goodwill in the court, and was offered presents of jewels, elephants and horses. Some of the army commanders proposed that he should be made Maharaja in place of the six-year-old Duleep Singh. However, some influential members of the Supreme Council of the Khalsa and the regimental committees supported the young Maharaja and his mother, Maharani Jind Kaur. They requested him to return to his estates, with a promise of an increase in his jagir, and the army ordered him to leave Lahore.\n\nA new vizier, the Maharani’s brother, Jawahar Singh, was appointed on 14 May 1845 and immediately despatched artillery against a force being assembled by Pashaura Singh. The Prince capitulated, but was allowed to go free.\n\nTwo months later, in July 1845, Pashaura Singh took the fort at Attock with a handful of Pathan followers and declared himself to be the ruler of the Punjab. He raised fresh levies and, with the money that the fort yielded to him, tried to obtain help from the chiefs within the kingdom, from Jehlum to Khaibar, and even opened negotiations with Dost Muhammad.\n\nAfter hearing of the rebellion in Attock, Jawahar Singh ordered Chattar Singh Attariwalla and Malik Fateh Khan Tiwana to recapture the fort and defeat Pashaura Singh. The prince was forced to surrender the fort on 30 August 1845 and place himself at the disposal of Chattar Singh, after receiving assurances of safe passage to Lahore and the retention of his estates at Sialkot.\n\nHowever, Jawahar Singh considered that the Prince posed too great a threat to his nephew, the young Maharaja, and sent instructions that Pashaura Singh be disposed of immediately. The prince was secretly removed from his personal bodyguard on 11 September 1845, and taken back by Fateh Khan Tiwana to Attock where he was strangled. For his part in this, Jawahar Singh was speared to death by the army on 21 September 1845 in front of his sister, the agonised Maharani.\n\nPashaura Singh, Kanvar The Sikh Encyclopedia. Retrieved 9 November 2011.\n"}
{"id": "48168992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48168992", "title": "Patiala Shahi Pagg", "text": "Patiala Shahi Pagg\n\nPatiala Shahi Pagg (turban) is a turban style based upon the turban style of old kings. This is also known as \"Tehdi Pagg\". It was also known as Kharbuja Pagg.It is the most common among all turbans and usually worn in the north part India, specially in Punjab.\n\nThe design of this turban is really royal. There are two parts of this turban. One is left and other is right. Both look similar, but comparatively to one side, other looks inverted.Its completely different from Morni or Pochvi Dastar which is mostly of pointed shape\n"}
{"id": "344783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344783", "title": "Pierre-Simon Laplace", "text": "Pierre-Simon Laplace\n\nPierre-Simon, marquis de Laplace (; ; 23 March 1749 – 5 March 1827) was a French scholar whose work was important to the development of engineering, mathematics, statistics, physics and astronomy. He summarized and extended the work of his predecessors in his five-volume \"Mécanique Céleste\" (\"Celestial Mechanics\") (1799–1825). This work translated the geometric study of classical mechanics to one based on calculus, opening up a broader range of problems. In statistics, the Bayesian interpretation of probability was developed mainly by Laplace.\n\nLaplace formulated Laplace's equation, and pioneered the Laplace transform which appears in many branches of mathematical physics, a field that he took a leading role in forming. The Laplacian differential operator, widely used in mathematics, is also named after him. He restated and developed the nebular hypothesis of the origin of the Solar System and was one of the first scientists to postulate the existence of black holes and the notion of gravitational collapse.\n\nLaplace is remembered as one of the greatest scientists of all time. Sometimes referred to as the \"French Newton\" or \"Newton of France\", he has been described as possessing a phenomenal natural mathematical faculty superior to that of any of his contemporaries.\nHe was Napoleon's examiner when Napoleon attended the Ecole Militaire in Paris in 1784.\nLaplace became a count of the Empire in 1806 and was named a marquis in 1817, after the Bourbon Restoration.\n\nSome records of Laplace's life were burned in 1925 with the family château in Saint Julien de Mailloc, near Lisieux, the home of his great-great-grandson the Comte de Colbert-Laplace. Others had been destroyed earlier, when his house at Arcueil near Paris was looted by house breakers in 1871.\n\nLaplace was born in Beaumont-en-Auge, Normandy on 23 March 1749, a village four miles west of Pont l'Eveque. According to W. W. Rouse Ball, his father, Pierre de Laplace, owned and farmed the small estates of Maarquis. His great-uncle, Maitre Oliver de Laplace, had held the title of Chirurgien Royal. It would seem that from a pupil he became an usher in the school at Beaumont; but, having procured a letter of introduction to d'Alembert, he went to Paris to advance his fortune. However, Karl Pearson is scathing about the inaccuracies in Rouse Ball's account and states:\nHis parents were from comfortable families. His father was Pierre Laplace, and his mother was Marie-Anne Sochon. The Laplace family was involved in agriculture until at least 1750, but Pierre Laplace senior was also a cider merchant and \"syndic\" of the town of Beaumont.\n\nPierre Simon Laplace attended a school in the village run at a Benedictine priory, his father intending that he be ordained in the Roman Catholic Church. At sixteen, to further his father's intention, he was sent to the University of Caen to read theology.\n\nAt the university, he was mentored by two enthusiastic teachers of mathematics, Christophe Gadbled and Pierre Le Canu, who awoke his zeal for the subject. Here Laplace's brilliance as a mathematician was quickly recognised and while still at Caen he wrote a memoir \"Sur le Calcul integral aux differences infiniment petites et aux differences finies\". This provided the first intercourse between Laplace and Lagrange. Lagrange was the senior by thirteen years, and had recently founded in his native city Turin a journal named \"Miscellanea Taurinensia\", in which many of his early works were printed and it was in the fourth volume of this series that Laplace's paper appeared. About this time, recognising that he had no vocation for the priesthood, he determined to become a professional mathematician. Some sources state that he then broke with the church and became an atheist. Laplace did not graduate in theology but left for Paris with a letter of introduction from Le Canu to Jean le Rond d'Alembert who at that time was supreme in scientific circles.\n\nAccording to his great-great-grandson, d'Alembert received him rather poorly, and to get rid of him gave him a thick mathematics book, saying to come back when he had read it. When Laplace came back a few days later, d'Alembert was even less friendly and did not hide his opinion that it was impossible that Laplace could have read and understood the book. But upon questioning him, he realised that it was true, and from that time he took Laplace under his care.\n\nAnother account is that Laplace solved overnight a problem that d'Alembert set him for submission the following week, then solved a harder problem the following night. D'Alembert was impressed and recommended him for a teaching place in the \"École Militaire\".\n\nWith a secure income and undemanding teaching, Laplace now threw himself into original research and for the next seventeen years, 1771–1787, he produced much of his original work in astronomy.\n\nFrom 1780–1784, Laplace and French chemist Antoine Lavoisier collaborated on several experimental investigations, designing their own equipment for the task. In 1783 they published their joint paper, Memoir on Heat, in which they discussed the kinetic theory of molecular motion. In their experiments they measured the specific heat of various bodies, and the expansion of metals with increasing temperature. They also measured the boiling points of ethanol and ether under pressure.\n\nLaplace further impressed the Marquis de Condorcet, and already by 1771 Laplace felt entitled to membership in the French Academy of Sciences. However, that year admission went to Alexandre-Théophile Vandermonde and in 1772 to Jacques Antoine Joseph Cousin. Laplace was disgruntled, and early in 1773 d'Alembert wrote to Lagrange in Berlin to ask if a position could be found for Laplace there. However, Condorcet became permanent secretary of the \"Académie\" in February and Laplace was elected associate member on 31 March, at age 24. In 1773 Laplace read his paper on the invariability of planetary motion in front of the Academy des Sciences. That March he was elected to the academy, a place where he conducted the majority of his science.\n\nOn 15 March 1788, at the age of thirty-nine, Laplace married Marie-Charlotte de Courty de Romanges, an eighteen-year-old woman from a 'good' family in Besançon. The wedding was celebrated at Saint-Sulpice, Paris. The couple had a son, Charles-Émile (1789–1874), and a daughter, Sophie-Suzanne (1792–1813).\n\nLaplace's early published work in 1771 started with differential equations and finite differences but he was already starting to think about the mathematical and philosophical concepts of probability and statistics. However, before his election to the \"Académie\" in 1773, he had already drafted two papers that would establish his reputation. The first, \"Mémoire sur la probabilité des causes par les événements\" was ultimately published in 1774 while the second paper, published in 1776, further elaborated his statistical thinking and also began his systematic work on celestial mechanics and the stability of the Solar System. The two disciplines would always be interlinked in his mind. \"Laplace took probability as an instrument for repairing defects in knowledge.\" Laplace's work on probability and statistics is discussed below with his mature work on the analytic theory of probabilities.\n\nSir Isaac Newton had published his \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" in 1687 in which he gave a derivation of Kepler's laws, which describe the motion of the planets, from his laws of motion and his law of universal gravitation. However, though Newton had privately developed the methods of calculus, all his published work used cumbersome geometric reasoning, unsuitable to account for the more subtle higher-order effects of interactions between the planets. Newton himself had doubted the possibility of a mathematical solution to the whole, even concluding that periodic divine intervention was necessary to guarantee the stability of the Solar System. Dispensing with the hypothesis of divine intervention would be a major activity of Laplace's scientific life. It is now generally regarded that Laplace's methods on their own, though vital to the development of the theory, are not sufficiently precise to demonstrate the stability of the Solar System, and indeed, the Solar System is understood to be chaotic, although it happens to be fairly stable.\n\nOne particular problem from observational astronomy was the apparent instability whereby Jupiter's orbit appeared to be shrinking while that of Saturn was expanding. The problem had been tackled by Leonhard Euler in 1748 and Joseph Louis Lagrange in 1763 but without success. In 1776, Laplace published a memoir in which he first explored the possible influences of a purported luminiferous ether or of a law of gravitation that did not act instantaneously. He ultimately returned to an intellectual investment in Newtonian gravity. Euler and Lagrange had made a practical approximation by ignoring small terms in the equations of motion. Laplace noted that though the terms themselves were small, when integrated over time they could become important. Laplace carried his analysis into the higher-order terms, up to and including the cubic. Using this more exact analysis, Laplace concluded that any two planets and the sun must be in mutual equilibrium and thereby launched his work on the stability of the Solar System. Gerald James Whitrow described the achievement as \"the most important advance in physical astronomy since Newton\".\n\nLaplace had a wide knowledge of all sciences and dominated all discussions in the \"Académie\". Laplace seems to have regarded analysis merely as a means of attacking physical problems, though the ability with which he invented the necessary analysis is almost phenomenal. As long as his results were true he took but little trouble to explain the steps by which he arrived at them; he never studied elegance or symmetry in his processes, and it was sufficient for him if he could by any means solve the particular question he was discussing.\n\nWhile Newton explained the tides by describing the tide-generating forces and Bernoulli gave a description of the static reaction of the waters on Earth to the tidal potential, the \"dynamic theory of tides\", developed by Laplace in 1775, describes the ocean's real reaction to tidal forces. Laplace's theory of ocean tides took into account friction, resonance and natural periods of ocean basins. It predicted the large amphidromic systems in the world's ocean basins and explains the oceanic tides that are actually observed.The equilibrium theory, based on the gravitational gradient from the Sun and Moon but ignoring the Earth's rotation, the effects of continents, and other important effects, could not explain the real ocean tides.Since measurements have confirmed the theory, many things have possible explanations now, like how the tides interact with deep sea ridges and chains of seamounts give rise to deep eddies that transport nutrients from the deep to the surface. The equilibrium tide theory calculates the height of the tide wave of less than half a meter, while the dynamic theory explains why tides are up to 15 meters. Satellite observations confirm the accuracy of the dynamic theory, and the tides worldwide are now measured to within a few centimeters. Measurements from the CHAMP satellite closely match the models based on the TOPEX data. Accurate models of tides worldwide are essential for research since the variations due to tides must be removed from measurements when calculating gravity and changes in sea levels.\n\nIn 1776, Laplace formulated a single set of linear partial differential equations, for tidal flow described as a barotropic two-dimensional sheet flow. Coriolis effects are introduced as well as lateral forcing by gravity. Laplace obtained these equations by simplifying the fluid dynamic equations. But they can also be derived from energy integrals via Lagrange's equation.\n\nFor a fluid sheet of average thickness \"D\", the vertical tidal elevation \"ζ\", as well as the horizontal velocity components \"u\" and \"v\" (in the latitude \"φ\" and longitude \"λ\" directions, respectively) satisfy Laplace's tidal equations:\nwhere \"Ω\" is the angular frequency of the planet's rotation, \"g\" is the planet's gravitational acceleration at the mean ocean surface, \"a\" is the planetary radius, and \"U\" is the external gravitational tidal-forcing potential.\n\nWilliam Thomson (Lord Kelvin) rewrote Laplace's momentum terms using the curl to find an equation for vorticity. Under certain conditions this can be further rewritten as a conservation of vorticity.\n\nDuring the years 1784–1787 he published some memoirs of exceptional power. Prominent among these is one read in 1783, reprinted as Part II of \"Théorie du Mouvement et de la figure elliptique des planètes\" in 1784, and in the third volume of the \"Mécanique céleste\". In this work, Laplace completely determined the attraction of a spheroid on a particle outside it. This is memorable for the introduction into analysis of spherical harmonics or Laplace's coefficients, and also for the development of the use of what we would now call the gravitational potential in celestial mechanics.\n\nIn 1783, in a paper sent to the \"Académie\", Adrien-Marie Legendre had introduced what are now known as associated Legendre functions. If two points in a plane have polar co-ordinates (\"r\", θ) and (\"r\"<nowiki> '</nowiki>, θ'), where \"r\"<nowiki> '</nowiki> ≥ \"r\", then, by elementary manipulation, the reciprocal of the distance between the points, \"d\", can be written as:\n\nThis expression can be expanded in powers of \"r\"/\"r\"<nowiki> '</nowiki> using Newton's generalised binomial theorem to give:\n\nThe sequence of functions \"P\"(cosф) is the set of so-called \"associated Legendre functions\" and their usefulness arises from the fact that every function of the points on a circle can be expanded as a series of them.\n\nLaplace, with scant regard for credit to Legendre, made the non-trivial extension of the result to three dimensions to yield a more general set of functions, the spherical harmonics or Laplace coefficients. The latter term is not in common use now.\n\nThis paper is also remarkable for the development of the idea of the scalar potential. The gravitational force acting on a body is, in modern language, a vector, having magnitude and direction. A potential function is a scalar function that defines how the vectors will behave. A scalar function is computationally and conceptually easier to deal with than a vector function.\n\nAlexis Clairaut had first suggested the idea in 1743 while working on a similar problem though he was using Newtonian-type geometric reasoning. Laplace described Clairaut's work as being \"in the class of the most beautiful mathematical productions\". However, Rouse Ball alleges that the idea \"was appropriated from Joseph Louis Lagrange, who had used it in his memoirs of 1773, 1777 and 1780\". The term \"potential\" itself was due to Daniel Bernoulli, who introduced it in his 1738 memoire \"Hydrodynamica\". However, according to Rouse Ball, the term \"potential function\" was not actually used (to refer to a function \"V\" of the coordinates of space in Laplace's sense) until George Green's 1828 An Essay on the Application of Mathematical Analysis to the Theories of Electricity and Magnetism.\n\nLaplace applied the language of calculus to the potential function and showed that it always satisfies the differential equation:\n\nAn analogous result for the velocity potential of a fluid had been obtained some years previously by Leonhard Euler.\n\nLaplace's subsequent work on gravitational attraction was based on this result. The quantity ∇\"V\" has been termed the concentration of \"V\" and its value at any point indicates the \"excess\" of the value of \"V\" there over its mean value in the neighbourhood of the point. Laplace's equation, a special case of Poisson's equation, appears ubiquitously in mathematical physics. The concept of a potential occurs in fluid dynamics, electromagnetism and other areas. Rouse Ball speculated that it might be seen as \"the outward sign\" of one of the \"a priori\" forms in Kant's theory of perception.\n\nThe spherical harmonics turn out to be critical to practical solutions of Laplace's equation. Laplace's equation in spherical coordinates, such as are used for mapping the sky, can be simplified, using the method of separation of variables into a radial part, depending solely on distance from the centre point, and an angular or spherical part. The solution to the spherical part of the equation can be expressed as a series of Laplace's spherical harmonics, simplifying practical computation.\n\nLaplace presented a memoir on planetary inequalities in three sections, in 1784, 1785, and 1786. This dealt mainly with the identification and explanation of the perturbations now known as the \"great Jupiter–Saturn inequality\". Laplace solved a longstanding problem in the study and prediction of the movements of these planets. He showed by general considerations, first, that the mutual action of two planets could never cause large changes in the eccentricities and inclinations of their orbits; but then, even more importantly, that peculiarities arose in the Jupiter–Saturn system because of the near approach to commensurability of the mean motions of Jupiter and Saturn.\n\nIn this context \"commensurability\" means that the ratio of the two planets' mean motions is very nearly equal to a ratio between a pair of small whole numbers. Two periods of Saturn's orbit around the Sun almost equal five of Jupiter's. The corresponding difference between multiples of the mean motions, , corresponds to a period of nearly 900 years, and it occurs as a small divisor in the integration of a very small perturbing force with this same period. As a result, the integrated perturbations with this period are disproportionately large, about 0.8° degrees of arc in orbital longitude for Saturn and about 0.3° for Jupiter.\n\nFurther developments of these theorems on planetary motion were given in his two memoirs of 1788 and 1789, but with the aid of Laplace's discoveries, the tables of the motions of Jupiter and Saturn could at last be made much more accurate. It was on the basis of Laplace's theory that Delambre computed his astronomical tables.\n\nLaplace now set himself the task to write a work which should \"offer a complete solution of the great mechanical problem presented by the Solar System, and bring theory to coincide so closely with observation that empirical equations should no longer find a place in astronomical tables.\" The result is embodied in the \"Exposition du système du monde\" and the \"Mécanique céleste\".\n\nThe former was published in 1796, and gives a general explanation of the phenomena, but omits all details. It contains a summary of the history of astronomy. This summary procured for its author the honour of admission to the forty of the French Academy and is commonly esteemed one of the masterpieces of French literature, though it is not altogether reliable for the later periods of which it treats.\n\nLaplace developed the nebular hypothesis of the formation of the Solar System, first suggested by Emanuel Swedenborg and expanded by Immanuel Kant, a hypothesis that continues to dominate accounts of the origin of planetary systems. According to Laplace's description of the hypothesis, the Solar System had evolved from a globular mass of incandescent gas rotating around an axis through its centre of mass. As it cooled, this mass contracted, and successive rings broke off from its outer edge. These rings in their turn cooled, and finally condensed into the planets, while the sun represented the central core which was still left. On this view, Laplace predicted that the more distant planets would be older than those nearer the sun.\n\nAs mentioned, the idea of the nebular hypothesis had been outlined by Immanuel Kant in 1755, and he had also suggested \"meteoric aggregations\" and tidal friction as causes affecting the formation of the Solar System. Laplace was probably aware of this, but, like many writers of his time, he generally did not reference the work of others.\n\nLaplace's analytical discussion of the Solar System is given in his \"Mécanique céleste\" published in five volumes. The first two volumes, published in 1799, contain methods for calculating the motions of the planets, determining their figures, and resolving tidal problems. The third and fourth volumes, published in 1802 and 1805, contain applications of these methods, and several astronomical tables. The fifth volume, published in 1825, is mainly historical, but it gives as appendices the results of Laplace's latest researches. Laplace's own investigations embodied in it are so numerous and valuable that it is regrettable to have to add that many results are appropriated from other writers with scanty or no acknowledgement, and the conclusions – which have been described as the organised result of a century of patient toil – are frequently mentioned as if they were due to Laplace.\n\nJean-Baptiste Biot, who assisted Laplace in revising it for the press, says that Laplace himself was frequently unable to recover the details in the chain of reasoning, and, if satisfied that the conclusions were correct, he was content to insert the constantly recurring formula, \"Il est aisé à voir que...\" (\"It is easy to see that...\"). The \"Mécanique céleste\" is not only the translation of Newton's \"Principia\" into the language of the differential calculus, but it completes parts of which Newton had been unable to fill in the details. The work was carried forward in a more finely tuned form in Félix Tisserand's \"Traité de mécanique céleste\" (1889–1896), but Laplace's treatise will always remain a standard authority.\nIn the years 1784–1787, Laplace produced some memoirs of exceptional power. The significant among these was one issued in 1784, and reprinted in the third volume of the Méchanique céleste. In this work he completely determined the attraction of a spheroid on a particle outside it. This is known for the introduction into analysis of the potential, a useful mathematical concept of broad applicability to the physical sciences.\n\nLaplace also came close to propounding the concept of the black hole. He suggested that there could be massive stars whose gravity is so great that not even light could escape from their surface (see escape velocity).\n\nIn 1806, Laplace bought a house in Arcueil, then a village and not yet absorbed into the Paris conurbation. Claude Louis Berthollet was a neighbour—their gardens were not separated—and the pair formed the nucleus of an informal scientific circle, latterly known as the Society of Arcueil. Because of their closeness to Napoleon, Laplace and Berthollet effectively controlled advancement in the scientific establishment and admission to the more prestigious offices. The Society built up a complex pyramid of patronage. In 1806, Laplace was also elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1812, Laplace issued his \"Théorie analytique des probabilités\" in which he laid down many fundamental results in statistics. The first half of this treatise was concerned with probability methods and problems, the second half with statistical methods and applications. Laplace's proofs are not always rigorous according to the standards of a later day, and his perspective slides back and forth between the Bayesian and non-Bayesian views with an ease that makes some of his investigations difficult to follow, but his conclusions remain basically sound even in those few situations where his analysis goes astray. In 1819, he published a popular account of his work on probability. This book bears the same relation to the \"Théorie des probabilités\" that the \"Système du monde\" does to the \"Méchanique céleste\". In its emphasis on the analytical importance of probabilistic problems, especially in the context of the \"approximation of formula functions of large numbers,\" Laplace's work goes beyond the contemporary view which almost exclusively considered aspects of practical applicability. Laplace's Théorie analytique remained the most influential book of mathematical probability theory to the end of the 19th century. The general relevance for statistics of Laplacian error theory was appreciated only by the end of the 19th century. However, it influenced the further development of a largely analytically oriented probability theory.\n\nIn his \"Essai philosophique sur les probabilités\" (1814), Laplace set out a mathematical system of inductive reasoning based on probability, which we would today recognise as Bayesian. He begins the text with a series of principles of probability, the first six being:\n\n\nOne well-known formula arising from his system is the rule of succession, given as principle seven. Suppose that some trial has only two possible outcomes, labelled \"success\" and \"failure\". Under the assumption that little or nothing is known \"a priori\" about the relative plausibilities of the outcomes, Laplace derived a formula for the probability that the next trial will be a success.\n\nwhere \"s\" is the number of previously observed successes and \"n\" is the total number of observed trials. It is still used as an estimator for the probability of an event if we know the event space, but have only a small number of samples.\n\nThe rule of succession has been subject to much criticism, partly due to the example which Laplace chose to illustrate it. He calculated that the probability that the sun will rise tomorrow, given that it has never failed to in the past, was\n\nwhere \"d\" is the number of times the sun has risen in the past. This result has been derided as absurd, and some authors have concluded that all applications of the Rule of Succession are absurd by extension. However, Laplace was fully aware of the absurdity of the result; immediately following the example, he wrote, \"But this number [i.e., the probability that the sun will rise tomorrow] is far greater for him who, seeing in the totality of phenomena the principle regulating the days and seasons, realizes that nothing at the present moment can arrest the course of it.\"\n\nThe method of estimating the ratio of the number of favourable cases to the whole number of possible cases had been previously indicated by Laplace in a paper written in 1779. It consists of treating the successive values of any function as the coefficients in the expansion of another function, with reference to a different variable. The latter is therefore called the probability-generating function of the former. Laplace then shows how, by means of interpolation, these coefficients may be determined from the generating function. Next he attacks the converse problem, and from the coefficients he finds the generating function; this is effected by the solution of a finite difference equation.\n\nThe fourth chapter of this treatise includes an exposition of the method of least squares, a remarkable testimony to Laplace's command over the processes of analysis. In 1805 Legendre had published the method of least squares, making no attempt to tie it to the theory of probability. In 1809 Gauss had derived the normal distribution from the principle that the arithmetic mean of observations gives the most probable value for the quantity measured; then, turning this argument back upon itself, he showed that, if the errors of observation are normally distributed, the least squares estimates give the most probable values for the coefficients in regression situations. These two works seem to have spurred Laplace to complete work toward a treatise on probability he had contemplated as early as 1783.\n\nIn two important papers in 1810 and 1811, Laplace first developed the characteristic function as a tool for large-sample theory and proved the first general central limit theorem. Then in a supplement to his 1810 paper written after he had seen Gauss's work, he showed that the central limit theorem provided a Bayesian justification for least squares: if one were combining observations, each one of which was itself the mean of a large number of independent observations, then the least squares estimates would not only maximise the likelihood function, considered as a posterior distribution, but also minimise the expected posterior error, all this without any assumption as to the error distribution or a circular appeal to the principle of the arithmetic mean. In 1811 Laplace took a different non-Bayesian tack. Considering a linear regression problem, he restricted his attention to linear unbiased estimators of the linear coefficients. After showing that members of this class were approximately normally distributed if the number of observations was large, he argued that least squares provided the \"best\" linear estimators. Here it is \"best\" in the sense that it minimised the asymptotic variance and thus both minimised the expected absolute value of the error, and maximised the probability that the estimate would lie in any symmetric interval about the unknown coefficient, no matter what the error distribution. His derivation included the joint limiting distribution of the least squares estimators of two parameters.\n\nIn 1814, Laplace published what is usually known as the first articulation of causal or scientific determinism:\nThis intellect is often referred to as \"Laplace's demon\" (in the same vein as \"Maxwell's demon\") and sometimes \"Laplace's Superman\" (after Hans Reichenbach). Laplace, himself, did not use the word \"demon\", which was a later embellishment. As translated into English above, he simply referred to: \"Une intelligence... Rien ne serait incertain pour elle, et l'avenir comme le passé, serait présent à ses yeux.\"\n\nEven though Laplace is known as the first to express such ideas about causal determinism, his view is very similar to the one proposed by Boscovich as early as 1763 in his book \"Theoria philosophiae naturalis\".\n\nAs early as 1744, Euler, followed by Lagrange, had started looking for solutions of differential equations in the form:\n\nThe Laplace transform has form:\nThis integral operator transforms a function of time (t) into a function of position or space (s).\n\nIn 1785, Laplace took the key forward step in using integrals of this form to transform a whole differential equation from a function of time into a lower order function of space; The transformed equation was easier to solve than the original because algebra could be used to manipulate the differential equation into a simpler form. The inverse Laplace transform was then taken to convert the simplified function of space back into a function of time.\n\nAmongst the other discoveries of Laplace in pure and applied mathematics are:\n\nLaplace built upon the qualitative work of Thomas Young to develop the theory of capillary action and the Young–Laplace equation.\n\nLaplace in 1816 was the first to point out that the speed of sound in air depends on the heat capacity ratio. Newton's original theory gave too low a value, because it does not take account of the adiabatic compression of the air which results in a local rise in temperature and pressure. Laplace's investigations in practical physics were confined to those carried on by him jointly with Lavoisier in the years 1782 to 1784 on the specific heat of various bodies.\n\nIn his early years Laplace was careful never to become involved in politics, or indeed in life outside the \"Académie des sciences\". He prudently withdrew from Paris during the most violent part of the Revolution.\n\nIn November 1799, immediately after seizing power in the coup of 18 Brumaire, Napoleon appointed Laplace to the post of Minister of the Interior. The appointment, however, lasted only six weeks, after which Lucien, Napoleon's brother, was given the post. Evidently, once Napoleon's grip on power was secure, there was no need for a prestigious but inexperienced scientist in the government. Napoleon later (in his \"Mémoires de Sainte Hélène\") wrote of Laplace's dismissal as follows:\n\nGrattan-Guinness, however, describes these remarks as \"tendentious\", since there seems to be no doubt that Laplace \"was only appointed as a short-term figurehead, a place-holder while Napoleon consolidated power\".\n\nAlthough Laplace was removed from office, it was desirable to retain his allegiance. He was accordingly raised to the senate, and to the third volume of the \"Mécanique céleste\" he prefixed a note that of all the truths therein contained the most precious to the author was the declaration he thus made of his devotion towards the peacemaker of Europe. In copies sold after the Bourbon Restoration this was struck out. (Pearson points out that the censor would not have allowed it anyway.) In 1814 it was evident that the empire was falling; Laplace hastened to tender his services to the Bourbons, and in 1817 during the Restoration he was rewarded with the title of marquis.\n\nAccording to Rouse Ball, the contempt that his more honest colleagues felt for his conduct in the matter may be read in the pages of Paul Louis Courier. His knowledge was useful on the numerous scientific commissions on which he served, and, says Rouse Ball, probably accounts for the manner in which his political insincerity was overlooked.\n\nRoger Hahn in his 2005 biography disputes this portrayal of Laplace as an opportunist and turncoat, pointing out that, like many in France, he had followed the debacle of Napoleon's Russian campaign with serious misgivings. The Laplaces, whose only daughter Sophie had died in childbirth in September 1813, were in fear for the safety of their son Émile, who was on the eastern front with the emperor. Napoleon had originally come to power promising stability, but it was clear that he had overextended himself, putting the nation at peril. It was at this point that Laplace's loyalty began to weaken. Although he still had easy access to Napoleon, his personal relations with the emperor cooled considerably. As a grieving father, he was particularly cut to the quick by Napoleon's insensitivity in an exchange related by Jean-Antoine Chaptal: \"On his return from the rout in Leipzig, he [Napoleon] accosted Mr Laplace: 'Oh! I see that you have grown thin—Sire, I have lost my daughter—Oh! that's not a reason for losing weight. You are a mathematician; put this event in an equation, and you will find that it adds up to zero.'\"\n\nIn the second edition (1814) of the \"Essai philosophique\", Laplace added some revealing comments on politics and governance. Since it is, he says, \"the practice of the eternal principles of reason, justice and humanity that produce and preserve societies, there is a great advantage to adhere to these principles, and a great inadvisability to deviate from them\". Noting \"the depths of misery into which peoples have been cast\" when ambitious leaders disregard these principles, Laplace makes a veiled criticism of Napoleon's conduct: \"Every time a great power intoxicated by the love of conquest aspires to universal domination, the sense of liberty among the unjustly threatened nations breeds a coalition to which it always succumbs.\" Laplace argues that \"in the midst of the multiple causes that direct and restrain various states, natural limits\" operate, within which it is \"important for the stability as well as the prosperity of empires to remain\". States that transgress these limits cannot avoid being \"reverted\" to them, \"just as is the case when the waters of the seas whose floor has been lifted by violent tempests sink back to their level by the action of gravity\".\n\nAbout the political upheavals he had witnessed, Laplace formulated a set of principles derived from physics to favour evolutionary over revolutionary change:\nIn these lines, Laplace expressed the views he had arrived at after experiencing the Revolution and the Empire. He believed that the stability of nature, as revealed through scientific findings, provided the model that best helped to preserve the human species. \"Such views,\" Hahn comments, \"were also of a piece with his steadfast character.\"\n\nLaplace died in Paris in 1827. His brain was removed by his physician, François Magendie, and kept for many years, eventually being displayed in a roving anatomical museum in Britain. It was reportedly smaller than the average brain. Laplace was buried at Père Lachaise in Paris but in 1888 his remains were moved to Saint Julien de Mailloc in the canton of Orbec and reinterred on the family estate. The tomb is situated on a hill overlooking the village of St Julien de Mailloc, Normandy, France. \n\nA frequently cited but potentially apocryphal interaction between Laplace and Napoleon purportedly concerns the existence of God. Although the conversation in question did occur, the exact words Laplace used and his intended meaning are not known. A typical version is provided by Rouse Ball:\nAn earlier report, although without the mention of Laplace's name, is found in Antommarchi's \"The Last Moments of Napoleon\" (1825):\nIn 1884, however, the astronomer Hervé Faye affirmed that this account of Laplace's exchange with Napoleon presented a \"strangely transformed\" (\"étrangement transformée\") or garbled version of what had actually happened. It was not God that Laplace had treated as a hypothesis, but merely his intervention at a determinate point:\nLaplace's younger colleague, the astronomer François Arago, who gave his eulogy before the French Academy in 1827, told Faye of an attempt by Laplace to keep the garbled version of his interaction with Napoleon out of circulation. Faye writes:\nThe Swiss-American historian of mathematics Florian Cajori appears to have been unaware of Faye's research, but in 1893 he came to a similar conclusion. Stephen Hawking said in 1999, \"I don't think that Laplace was claiming that God does not exist. It's just that he doesn't intervene, to break the laws of Science.\"\n\nThe only eyewitness account of Laplace's interaction with Napoleon is from the entry for 8 August 1802 in the diary of the British astronomer Sir William Herschel:\n\nSince this makes no mention of Laplace saying, \"I had no need of that hypothesis,\" Daniel Johnson argues that \"Laplace never used the words attributed to him.\" Arago's testimony, however, appears to imply that he did, only not in reference to the existence of God.\n\nBorn a Catholic, Laplace appears in adult life to have inclined to deism (presumably his considered position, since it is the only one found in his writings). However, some of his contemporaries thought he was an atheist, while a number of recent scholars have described him as agnostic. \n\nFaye thought that Laplace \"did not profess atheism\", but Napoleon, on Saint Helena, told General Gaspard Gourgaud, \"I often asked Laplace what he thought of God. He owned that he was an atheist.\" Roger Hahn, in his biography of Laplace, mentions a dinner party at which \"the geologist Jean-Étienne Guettard was staggered by Laplace's bold denunciation of the existence of God\". It appeared to Guettard that Laplace's atheism \"was supported by a thoroughgoing materialism\". But the chemist Jean-Baptiste Dumas, who knew Laplace well in the 1820s, wrote that Laplace \"provided materialists with their specious arguments, without sharing their convictions\".\n\nHahn states: \"Nowhere in his writings, either public or private, does Laplace deny God's existence.\" Expressions occur in his private letters that appear inconsistent with atheism. On 17 June 1809, for instance, he wrote to his son, \"\"Je prie Dieu qu'il veille sur tes jours. Aie-Le toujours présent à ta pensée, ainsi que ton père et ta mère\" [I pray that God watches over your days. Let Him be always present to your mind, as also your father and your mother].\" Ian S. Glass, quoting Herschel's account of the celebrated exchange with Napoleon, writes that Laplace was \"evidently a deist like Herschel\".\n\nIn \"Exposition du système du monde\", Laplace quotes Newton's assertion that \"the wondrous disposition of the Sun, the planets and the comets, can only be the work of an all-powerful and intelligent Being\". This, says Laplace, is a \"thought in which he [Newton] would be even more confirmed, if he had known what we have shown, namely that the conditions of the arrangement of the planets and their satellites are precisely those which ensure its stability\". By showing that the \"remarkable\" arrangement of the planets could be entirely explained by the laws of motion, Laplace had eliminated the need for the \"supreme intelligence\" to intervene, as Newton had \"made\" it do. Laplace cites with approval Leibniz's criticism of Newton's invocation of divine intervention to restore order to the Solar System: \"This is to have very narrow ideas about the wisdom and the power of God.\" He evidently shared Leibniz's astonishment at Newton's belief \"that God has made his machine so badly that unless he affects it by some extraordinary means, the watch will very soon cease to go\".\n\nIn a group of manuscripts, preserved in relative secrecy in a black envelope in the library of the \"Académie des sciences\" and published for the first time by Hahn, Laplace mounted a deist critique of Christianity. It is, he writes, the \"first and most infallible of principles ... to reject miraculous facts as untrue\". As for the doctrine of transubstantiation, it \"offends at the same time reason, experience, the testimony of all our senses, the eternal laws of nature, and the sublime ideas that we ought to form of the Supreme Being\". It is the sheerest absurdity to suppose that \"the sovereign lawgiver of the universe would suspend the laws that he has established, and which he seems to have maintained invariably\".\n\nIn old age, Laplace remained curious about the question of God and frequently discussed Christianity with the Swiss astronomer Jean-Frédéric-Théodore Maurice. He told Maurice that \"Christianity is quite a beautiful thing\" and praised its civilising influence. Maurice thought that the basis of Laplace's beliefs was, little by little, being modified, but that he held fast to his conviction that the invariability of the laws of nature did not permit of supernatural events. After Laplace's death, Poisson told Maurice, \"You know that I do not share your [religious] opinions, but my conscience forces me to recount something that will surely please you.\" When Poisson had complimented Laplace about his \"brilliant discoveries\", the dying man had fixed him with a pensive look and replied, \"Ah! we chase after phantoms [\"chimères\"].\" These were his last words, interpreted by Maurice as a realisation of the ultimate \"vanity\" of earthly pursuits. Laplace received the last rites from the curé of the Missions Étrangères (in whose parish he was to be buried) and the curé of Arcueil.\n\nHowever, according to his biographer, Roger Hahn, it is \"not credible\" that Laplace \"had a proper Catholic end\", and he \"remained a skeptic\" to the very end of his life. Laplace in his last years has been described as an agnostic.\n\nIn 1470 the humanist scholar Bartolomeo Platina wrote that Pope Callixtus III had asked for prayers for deliverance from the Turks during a 1456 appearance of Halley's Comet. Platina's account does not accord with Church records, which do not mention the comet. Laplace is alleged to have embellished the story by claiming the Pope had \"excommunicated\" Halley's comet. What Laplace actually said, in \"Exposition du système du monde\" (1796), was that the Pope had ordered the comet to be \"exorcised\" (\"conjuré\"). It was Arago, in \"Des Comètes en général\" (1832), who first spoke of an excommunication.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19195836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19195836", "title": "Polytheism", "text": "Polytheism\n\nPolytheism (from Greek πολυθεϊσμός, \"polytheismos)\" is the worship of or belief in multiple deities, which are usually assembled into a pantheon of gods and goddesses, along with their own religions and rituals. In most religions which accept polytheism, the different gods and goddesses are representations of forces of nature or ancestral principles, and can be viewed either as autonomous or as aspects or emanations of a creator deity or transcendental absolute principle (monistic theologies), which manifests immanently in nature (panentheistic and pantheistic theologies). Most of the polytheistic deities of ancient religions, with the notable exceptions of the Ancient Egyptian and Hindu deities, were conceived as having physical bodies. \n\nPolytheism is a type of theism. Within theism, it contrasts with monotheism, the belief in a singular God, in most cases transcendent. Polytheists do not always worship all the gods equally, but they can be henotheists, specializing in the worship of one particular deity. Other polytheists can be kathenotheists, worshiping different deities at different times.\n\nPolytheism was the typical form of religion during the Bronze Age and Iron Age up to the Axial Age and the development of Abrahamic religions, the latter of which enforced strict monotheism. It is well documented in historical religions of Classical antiquity, especially ancient Greek religion and ancient Roman religion, and after the decline of Greco-Roman polytheism in tribal religions such as Germanic paganism or Slavic paganism.\n\nImportant polytheistic religions practiced today include Chinese traditional religion, Hinduism, Japanese Shinto, Santeria, and various neopagan faiths.\n\nThe term comes from the Greek πολύ \"poly\" (\"many\") and θεός \"theos\" (\"god\") and was first invented by the Jewish writer Philo of Alexandria to argue with the Greeks. When Christianity spread throughout Europe and the Mediterranean, non-Christians were just called Gentiles (a term originally used by Jews to refer to non-Jews) or pagans (locals) or by the clearly pejorative term idolaters (worshiping \"false\" gods). The modern usage of the term is first revived in French through Jean Bodin in 1580, followed by Samuel Purchas's usage in English in 1614.\n\nA central, main division in polytheism is between soft polytheism and hard polytheism.\n\n\"Hard\" polytheism is the belief that gods are distinct, separate, real divine beings, rather than psychological archetypes or personifications of natural forces. Hard polytheists reject the idea that \"all gods are one god.\" \"Hard\" polytheists do not necessarily consider the gods of all cultures as being equally real, a theological position formally known as integrational polytheism or omnism.\n\nThis is contrasted with \"soft\" polytheism, which holds that gods may be aspects of only one god, that the pantheons of other cultures are representative of one single pantheon, psychological archetypes or personifications of natural forces.\n\nThe deities of polytheism are often portrayed as complex personages of greater or lesser status, with individual skills, needs, desires and histories; in many ways similar to humans (anthropomorphic) in their personality traits, but with additional individual powers, abilities, knowledge or perceptions.\nPolytheism cannot be cleanly separated from the animist beliefs prevalent in most folk religions. The gods of polytheism are in many cases the highest order of a continuum of supernatural beings or spirits, which may include ancestors, demons, wights and others. In some cases these spirits are divided into celestial or chthonic classes, and belief in the existence of all these beings does not imply that all are worshipped.\n\nTypes of deities often found in polytheism may include\n\nIn the Classical era, Sallustius (4th century AD) categorised mythology into five types:\n\n\nThe theological are those myths which use no bodily form but contemplate the very essence of the gods: e.g., Cronus swallowing his children. Since divinity is intellectual, and all intellect returns into itself, this myth expresses in allegory the essence of divinity.\n\nMyths may be regarded physically when they express the activities of gods in the world.\n\nThe psychological way is to regard (myths as allegories of) the activities of the soul itself and or the soul's acts of thought.\n\nThe material is to regard material objects to actually be gods, for example: to call the earth Gaia, ocean Okeanos, or heat Typhon.\n\nSome well-known historical polytheistic pantheons include the Sumerian gods and the Egyptian gods, and the classical-attested pantheon which includes the ancient Greek religion and Roman religion. Post-classical polytheistic religions include Norse Æsir and Vanir, the Yoruba Orisha, the Aztec gods, and many others. Today, most historical polytheistic religions are referred to as \"mythology\", though the stories cultures tell about their gods should be distinguished from their worship or religious practice. For instance deities portrayed in conflict in mythology would still be worshipped sometimes in the same temple side by side, illustrating the distinction in the devotees mind between the myth and the reality. Scholars such as Jaan Puhvel, J. P. Mallory, and Douglas Q. Adams have reconstructed aspects of the ancient Proto-Indo-European religion, from which the religions of the various Indo-European peoples derive, and that this religion was an essentially naturalist numenistic religion. An example of a religious notion from this shared past is the concept of \"*dyēus\", which is attested in several distinct religious systems.\n\nIn many civilizations, pantheons tended to grow over time. Deities first worshipped as the patrons of cities or places came to be collected together as empires extended over larger territories. Conquests could lead to the subordination of the elder culture's pantheon to a newer one, as in the Greek Titanomachia, and possibly also the case of the Æsir and Vanir in the Norse mythos. Cultural exchange could lead to \"the same\" deity being renowned in two places under different names, as seen with the Greeks, Etruscans, and Romans, and also to the cultural transmission of elements of an extraneous religion into a local cult, as with worship of the ancient Egyptian deity Osiris, which was later followed in ancient Greece.\n\nMost ancient belief systems held that gods influenced human lives. However, the Greek philosopher Epicurus held that the gods were living, incorruptible, blissful beings who did not trouble themselves with the affairs of mortals, but who could be perceived by the mind, especially during sleep. Epicurus believed that these gods were material, human-like, and that they inhabited the empty spaces between worlds.\n\nHellenistic religion may still be regarded as polytheistic, but with strong monistic components, and monotheism finally emerges from Hellenistic traditions in Late Antiquity in the form of Neoplatonism and Christian theology.\n\n\n\n\nThe classical scheme in Ancient Greece of the Twelve Olympians (the Canonical Twelve of art and poetry) were: Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Athena, Ares, Demeter, Apollo, Artemis, Hephaestus, Aphrodite, Hermes, and Hestia. Though it is suggested that Hestia stepped down when Dionysus was invited to Mount Olympus, this is a matter of controversy. Robert Graves' \"The Greek Myths\" cites two sources that obviously do not suggest Hestia surrendered her seat, though he suggests she did. Hades was often excluded because he dwelt in the underworld. All of the gods had a power. There was, however, a great deal of fluidity as to whom was counted among their number in antiquity. Different cities often worshipped the same deities, sometimes with epithets that distinguished them and specified their local nature.\n\nThe Hellenic Polytheism extended beyond mainland Greece, to the islands and coasts of Ionia in Asia Minor, to Magna Graecia (Sicily and southern Italy), and to scattered Greek colonies in the Western Mediterranean, such as Massalia (Marseille). Greek religion tempered Etruscan cult and belief to form much of the later Roman religion.\n\nThe animistic nature of folk beliefs is an anthropological cultural universal. The belief in ghosts and spirits animating the natural world and the practice of ancestor worship is universally present in the world's cultures and re-emerges in monotheistic or materialistic societies as \"superstition\", belief in demons, tutelary saints, fairies or extraterrestrials.\n\nThe presence of a full polytheistic religion, complete with a ritual cult conducted by a priestly caste, requires a higher level of organization and is not present in every culture. In Eurasia, the Kalash are one of very few instances of surviving polytheism. Also, a large number of polytheistic folk traditions are subsumed in contemporary Hinduism, although Hinduism is doctrinally dominated by monist or monotheist theology (Bhakti, Advaita). Historical Vedic polytheist ritualism survives as a minor current in Hinduism, known as Shrauta. More widespread is folk Hinduism, with rituals dedicated to various local or regional deities.\n\nIn Buddhism, there are higher beings commonly designed (or designated) as gods, Devas; however, Buddhism, at its core (the original Pali canon), does not teach the notion of praying nor worship to the Devas or any god(s).\n\nHowever, in Buddhism, the core leader 'Buddha', who pioneered the path to enlightenment is not worshiped in meditation, but simply reflected upon. Statues or images of the Buddha (Buddharupas) are worshiped in front of to reflect and contemplate on qualities that the particular position of that rupa represents. In Buddhism, there is no creator and the Buddha rejected the idea that a permanent, personal, fixed, omniscient deity can exist, linking into the core concept of impermanence (anicca).\n\nDevas, in general, are beings who have had more positive karma in their past lives than humans. Their lifespan eventually ends. When their lives end, they will be reborn as devas or as other beings. When they accumulate negative karma, they are reborn as either human or any of the other lower beings. Humans and other beings could also be reborn as a deva in their next rebirth, if they accumulate enough positive karma; however, it is not recommended.\n\nBuddhism flourished in different countries, and some of those countries have polytheistic folk religions. Buddhism syncretizes easily with other religions. Thus, Buddhism has mixed with the folk religions and emerged in polytheistic variants (such as Vajrayana) as well as non-theistic variants. For example, in Japan, Buddhism, mixed with Shinto, which worships deities called kami, created a tradition which prays to the deities of Shinto as forms of Buddhas. Thus, there may be elements of worship of gods in some forms of later Buddhism.\n\nThe concepts of Adi-Buddha and Dharmakaya are the closest to monotheism any form of Buddhism comes, all famous sages and Bodhisattvas being regarded as reflections of it.\nAdi-Buddha is not said to be the creator, but the originator of all things, being a deity in an Emanationist sense.\n\nIt is sometimes claimed that Christianity is not truly monotheistic because of its teaching about the Trinity. This is the position of some Jews and Muslims who contend that because of the adoption of a Triune conception of deity, Christianity is actually a form of Tritheism or Polytheism, for example see Shituf or Tawhid. However, the central doctrine of Christianity is that \"one God exists in Three Persons and One Substance\". Strictly speaking, the doctrine is a revealed mystery which while above reason is not contrary to it. The word 'person' is an imperfect translation of the original term \"hypostasis\". In everyday speech \"person\" denotes a separate rational and moral individual, possessed of self-consciousness, and aware of individual identity despite changes. A human person is a distinct individual essence in whom human nature is individualized. But in God there are no three individuals alongside of, and separate from, one another, but only personal self distinctions within the divine essence, which is not only generically, but also numerically, one. Although the doctrine of the Trinity was not definitely formulated before the First Council of Constantinople in 381, the doctrine of one God, inherited from Judaism was always the indubitable premise of the Church's faith.\nJordan Paper, a Western scholar and self-described polytheist, considers polytheism to be the normal state in human culture. He argues that \"Even the Catholic Church shows polytheistic aspects with the 'worshipping' of the saints.\" On the other hand, he complains, monotheistic missionaries and scholars were eager to see a proto-monotheism or at least henotheism in polytheistic religions, for example, when taking from the Chinese pair of Sky and Earth only one part and calling it the \"King of Heaven\", as Matteo Ricci did.\n\nJoseph Smith, the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, believed in \"the plurality of Gods\", saying \"I have always declared God to be a distinct personage, Jesus Christ a separate and distinct personage from God the Father, and that the Holy Ghost was a distinct personage and a Spirit: and these three constitute three distinct personages and three Gods\". Mormonism also affirms the existence of a Heavenly Mother, as well as exaltation, the idea that people can become like god in the afterlife, and the prevailing view among Mormons is that God the Father was once a man who lived on a planet with his own higher God, and who became perfect after following this higher God. Some critics of Mormonism argue that statements in the Book of Mormon describe a trinitarian conception of God (e.g. ; ), but were superseded by later revelations.\n\nMormons teach that scriptural statements on the unity of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost represent a oneness of purpose, not of substance. They believe that the early Christian church did not characterize divinity in terms of an immaterial, formless shared substance until post-apostolic theologians began to incorporate Greek metaphysical philosophies (such as Neoplatonism) into Christian doctrine. Mormons believe that the truth about God's nature was restored through modern day revelation, which reinstated the original Judeo-Christian concept of a natural, corporeal, immortal God, who is the literal Father of the spirits of humans. It is to this personage alone that Mormons pray, as He is and always will be their Heavenly Father, the supreme \"God of gods\" (Deuteronomy 10:17). In the sense that Mormons worship only God the Father, they consider themselves monotheists. Nevertheless, Mormons adhere to Christ's teaching that those who receive God's word can obtain the title of \"gods\" (John 10:33-36), because as literal children of God they can take upon themselves His divine attributes. Mormons teach that \"The glory of God is intelligence\" (Doctrine and Covenants 93:36), and that it is by sharing the Father's perfect comprehension of all things that both Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit are also divine.\n\nHinduism is not a monolithic religion: many extremely varied religious traditions and practices are grouped together under this umbrella term and some modern scholars have questioned the legitimacy of unifying them artificially and suggest that one should speak of \"Hinduisms\" in the plural. Theistic Hinduism encompasses both monotheistic and polytheistic tendencies and variations on or mixes of both structures.\n\nHindus venerate deities in the form of the \"murti\", or idol. The \"Puja\" (worship) of the murti is like a way to communicate with the formless, abstract divinity (Brahman in Hinduism) which creates, sustains and dissolves creation. However, there are sects who have advocated that there is no need of giving a shape to God and it is omnipresent and beyond the things which human can see or feel tangibly. Specially the Arya Samaj founded by Swami Dayananda Saraswati and Brahmo Samaj founder by Ram Mohan Roy (there are others also) do not worship deities. Arya Samaj favours Vedic chants and Havan, Brahmo Samaj go for simple prayers.\n\nSome Hindu philosophers and theologians argue for a transcendent metaphysical structure with a single divine essence. This divine essence is usually referred to as Brahman or Atman, but the understanding of the nature of this absolute divine essence is the line which defines many Hindu philosophical traditions such as Vedanta.\n\nAmong lay Hindus, some believe in different deities emanating from Brahman, while others practice more traditional polytheism and henotheism, focusing their worship on one or more personal deities, while granting the existence of others.\n\nAcademically speaking, the ancient Vedic scriptures, upon which Hinduism is derived, describe four authorized disciplic lines of teaching coming down over thousands of years. (Padma Purana). Four of them propound that the Absolute Truth is Fully Personal, as in Judeo-Christian theology. That the Primal Original God is Personal, both transcendent and immanent throughout creation. He can be, and is often approached through worship of Murtis, called \"Archa-Vigraha\", which are described in the Vedas as likenesses of His various dynamic, spiritual Forms. This is the Vaisnava theology.\n\nThe fifth disciplic line of Vedic spirituality, founded by Adi Shankaracharya, promotes the concept that the Absolute is Brahman, without clear differentiations, without will, without thought, without intelligence.\n\nIn the Smarta denomination of Hinduism, the philosophy of Advaita expounded by Shankara allows veneration of numerous deities with the understanding that all of them are but manifestations of one impersonal divine power, Brahman. Therefore, according to various schools of Vedanta including Shankara, which is the most influential and important Hindu theological tradition, there are a great number of deities in Hinduism, such as Vishnu, Shiva, Ganesha, Hanuman, Lakshmi, and Kali, but they are essentially different forms of the same \"Being\". However, many Vedantic philosophers also argue that all individuals were united by the same impersonal, divine power in the form of the Atman.\n\nMany other Hindus, however, view polytheism as far preferable to monotheism. Ram Swarup, for example, points to the Vedas as being specifically polytheistic, and states that, \"only some form of polytheism alone can do justice to this variety and richness.\" Sita Ram Goel, another 20th-century Hindu historian, wrote:\n\nSome Hindus construe this notion of polytheism in the sense of polymorphism—one God with many forms or names. The Rig Veda, the primary Hindu scripture, elucidates this as follows:\n\nThey call him Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni, and he is heavenly nobly-winged Garutman. \"To what is One\", sages give many a title they call it Agni, Yama, Matarisvan. Book I, Hymn 164, Verse 46 Rigveda\n\nReconstructionist polytheists apply scholarly disciplines such as history, archaeology and language study to revive ancient, traditional religions that have been fragmented, damaged or even destroyed, such as Norse Paganism, Greek Paganism, Celtic polytheism and others. A reconstructionist endeavours to revive and reconstruct an authentic practice, based on the ways of the ancestors but workable in contemporary life. These polytheists sharply differ from neopagans in that they consider their religion not only inspired by the religions of antiquity but often as an actual continuation or revival of those religions.\n\nIn Africa, polytheism in Serer religion dates as far back to the Neolithic Era (possibly earlier) when the ancient ancestors of the Serer people represented their \"Pangool\" on the Tassili n'Ajjer. The supreme creator deity in Serer religion is Roog. However, there are many deities and Pangool (singular : \"Fangool\", the interceders with the divine) in Serer religion. Each one has its own purpose and serves as Roog's agent on Earth. Amongst the Cangin speakers, a sub-group of the Serers, Roog is known as Koox.\n\nNeopaganism, also known as modern paganism and contemporary paganism, is a group of contemporary religious movements influenced by or claiming to be derived from the various historical pagan beliefs of pre-modern Europe. Although they do share commonalities, contemporary Pagan religious movements are diverse and no single set of beliefs, practices, or texts are shared by them all.\n\nEnglish occultist Dion Fortune was a major populiser of \"soft polytheism\". In her novel, \"The Sea Priestess\", she wrote, \"All gods are one god, and all goddesses are one goddess, and there is one initiator.\"\n\nWicca is a duotheistic faith created by Gerald Gardner that allows for polytheism. Wiccans specifically worship the Lord and Lady of the Isles (their names are oathbound). It is an orthopraxic mystery religion that requires initiation to the priesthood in order to consider oneself Wiccan. Wicca emphasizes duality and the cycle of nature.\n\nThe term 'polytheist' is sometimes used by Sunni Muslim groups such as Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) as a derogatory reference to Shiite Muslims, whom they view as having \"strayed from Islam’s monotheistic creed because of the reverence they show for historical figures, like Imam Ali\".\nPolydeism (from Greek \"πολλοί\" (\" 'poloi' \"), meaning 'many', and Latin \"deus\" meaning god) is a polytheistic form of deism encompassing the belief that the universe was the collective creation of multiple gods, each of whom created a piece of the universe or multiverse and then ceased to intervene in its evolution. This concept addresses an apparent contradiction in deism, that a monotheistic God created the universe, but now expresses no apparent interest in it, by supposing that if the universe is the construct of many gods, none of them would have an interest in the universe as a whole.\n\nCreighton University Philosophy professor William O. Stephens, who teaches this concept to his students, suggests that C. D. Broad projected this concept in Broad's 1925 article, \"The Validity of Belief in a Personal God\". Broad noted that the arguments for the existence of God only tend to prove that \"a designing mind \"had\" existed in the past, not that it \"does\" exist now. It is quite compatible with this argument that God should have died long ago, or that he should have turned his attention to other parts of the Universe,\" and notes in the same breath that \"there is nothing in the facts to suggest that there is only one such being\". Stephens contends that Broad, in turn, derived the concept from David Hume. Stephens states:\n\nUse of this term as a portmanteau for this purpose appears to originate at least as early as Robert M. Bowman, Jr.'s 1997 essay, \"Apologetics from Genesis to Revelation\". Bowman wrote:\n\nThe term polydeism has occasionally been used as a direct substitute for polytheism – a usage which does not consider certain distinctions which have arisen between the respective root words, deism and theism. The above description of polydeism would be a distinct subset of polytheism.\n\nSociologist Susan Starr Sered used the term in her 1994 book, \"Priestess, Mother, Sacred Sister : Religions Dominated by Women\", which includes a chapter titled, \"No Father in Heaven: Androgyny and Polydeism.\" Sered states therein that she has \"chosen to gloss on 'polydeism' a range of beliefs in more than one supernatural entity.\" Id. at 169. Sered used this term in a way that would encompass polytheism, rather than exclude much of it, as she intended to capture both polytheistic systems and nontheistic systems that assert the influence of \"spirits or ancestors.\" Id. This use of the term, however, does not accord with the historical misuse of \"deism\" as a concept to describe an absent creator god.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47522342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47522342", "title": "Protestantism in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Protestantism in the Republic of Ireland\n\nProtestantism in the Republic of Ireland refers to Protestantism in the Republic of Ireland and its predecessor, the Irish Free State. In 2006, Protestants made up a little over 5% of the state's population. Their population experienced a long period of decline over the 19th and 20th centuries, but grows in the 21st century.\n\nThe parts of Ireland where the number of Protestants were of higher proportion was closely related to the plantations that occurred throughout the 16th and 17th centuries and the areas where British influence was strongest. The decline in the number of Protestants in the south during the 20th-century is usually attributed to the Partition of Ireland in 1921 and the after-effects. It has been suggested however that the pattern of migration may have started in the second half of the nineteenth century. Important factors for this emigration were socio-economic factors, reinforced by political factors. Irish independence in 1921 however may have accelerated the process.\n\nResearch done on the decline of Protestantism in Dublin between 1870 and 1926 provides various reasons, including:\n\n• Working class Protestants having a strong inclination to marry British soldiers, who upon the end of their tour of duty would then be posted to other parts of the British Isles.\n\n• Between 1901 and 1911, 15% of Protestant males were in mixed-marriages. The 1901 census indicates that nearly 80% of mixed-marriages resulted in any children being brought up as Catholics, even before the Vatican issued \"Ne Temere\" in 1907, which meant that children in all mixed-marriages must be brought up as Catholics. In the following period from 1911 to 1926 it seems likely that due to an increase in contention between Protestants and Catholics, there was a decrease in mixed-marriages.\n\n• The end of World War I saw the de-industrialisation of Dublin and migration of skilled Protestant workers seeking work.\n\nAfter the establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922, the Protestant population declined sharply, reasons for which included:\n\n• Intimidation from the Catholic majority.\n\n• The end of the union between southern Ireland and Great Britain.\n\n• The departure of British personnel, such as soldiers and public servants.\n\n• According to the \"Church of Ireland Gazette\": Protestants \"have a wholly disproportionate number of old people compared with young, in comparison to Roman Catholics\". They were also likely to marry later in life and have fewer children than their Catholic counterparts.\n\n• The \"Church of Ireland Gazette\" also remarks on the \"forced exodus of large numbers\" during the period of the early 1920s known as the Troubles. \n\n• The Catholic ethos of the Free State.\n\n• Symbols of British influence were seen as an integral part of the Protestant tradition during the interwar period between World War I and II, however the Free State's intent on removing them was viewed by southern Protestants as sectarian.\n\n• The introduction of a \"Gaelicisation\" policy. The compulsory teaching of the Irish language in schools saw some Protestant parents send their children to school in the United Kingdom. It also meant that Irish was compulsory for roles in the civil service, which resulted in \"the continuing emigration of young Protestants in search of jobs\", with the requirement seen as \"disguised discrimination\" by some.\n\n• The influence of the Catholic Church on government policy, such as: the banning of divorce and contraception; censorship of films and books; and in the education system. This reached its peak with the 1937 constitution giving the Catholic Church \"special position\" in the state.\n\nThe exact numbers of migration based upon religious affiliation before 1926 is complicated by various different reasons. However between the 1911 and 1926 census' it has been suggested that there was a migration of 106,456 people from minority-religions, with at least 60,000 Protestants not connected to the British administration in Ireland. During this period the number of Protestants in what became the Irish Free State dropped from 10% to 7%. This represented a drop of 32% in the Protestant population compared to the 2% drop in the Catholic population. This decrease is often linked to the removal of British forces from the Free State, however the rate of decline was quite similar between native and foreign born Protestants and the drop was five times greater than the total number of Protestants in the British forces in 1911.\n\nThe Irish Free State had few overt discriminatory religious policies against Protestants and prided itself on its treatment of religious minorities. Delaney argues that this was motivated by the desire to assure Protestants in Northern Ireland that they would receive equal treatment and religious liberty in a future united Ireland.\n\nHowever, Delaney writes that southern Protestants were \"penalised and ill-treated\" for being a cultural minority. Nationalism, which was in essence Catholic and Gaelic, took on a triumphalist tone in the state. Social policy during the 1922-1932 government administration was largely based on Catholic beliefs, and events such as the Eucharistic Congress of 1932, helped reinforce the exalted status the Catholic Church enjoyed. The zenith of this anti-British, Catholic and Gaelic ethos came about after the 1932 election, exemplify by the newly elected Taoiseach, Éamon de Valera, refusal to change or compromise on his views of a united Ireland that emphasised Gaelic and Catholic values.\n\nCosgrove writes that Protestant children were treated fairly and at times given preferential treatment in the education system. However, during the 1930s despite the fact education in the Free State was under denominational control, Catholicism became more influential and pervasive in the Irish governments education policy, resulting in the Catholic Church having more control over the education system than any other country in the world.\n\nOne of the most infamous incidents of overt discrimination against Protestants was the Dunbar-Harrison case in 1930. In this instance a Protestant, Letitia Dunbar-Harrison, applied to become a librarian. The Mayo Library Committee, mostly composed of prominent local Catholics including a bishop, originally said that she had inadequate knowledge of Irish for the role. Later during the debate it was remarked \"could a Protestant be trusted to hand out books to Catholics?\". Dunbar-Harrison was appointed, with the support of the national government, but in the fall-out Mayo County Council was dissolved, and there was strong opposition to the appointment from some prominent Catholic clerics and politicians. Despite the government standing its ground on the appointment, a boycott of the library resulted in W. T. Cosgrave, President of the Executive Council, and Catholic Archbishop of Tuam, Dr. Thomas Gilmartin, coming to an agreement to transfer Dunbar-Harrison from Mayo library to a post in Dublin in January 1932.\n\nAnother incident of overt discrimination against Protestants was the Fethard-on-Sea boycott in County Wexford, 1957. In this instance a local Protestant woman who had married a Catholic fled to Belfast after failing to honour her promise to educate her children as Catholics. This resulted in Catholics backed by a number of Catholic priests and bishops boycotting Protestant businesses in the area despite condemnation from the Irish government.\n\nBetween 1922-1923, emigration consisted of not just families, but also young individuals. In the period between 1926–1936, a greater proportion of young Protestants between the ages of 10–24 years old appear to have emigrated from the Free State compared to older Protestants. The decrease in the number of Protestants resulted in an even greater proportion of Catholics and thus the culture associated with it, furthering Protestant marginalisation and giving the perception of Catholic triumphalism. The coverage of the 1936 census results by \"The Irish News\" in 1939 was later reprinted by the Ulster Unionist Council as vindication for their belief of what would happen to Irish Protestants as a whole in a united Ireland under home rule.\n\nAreas where the Protestant minority was strongest tended to see the least decline, primary examples being the three Ulster counties that became part of the Free State: Cavan, Donegal, and Monaghan. Meanwhile, urban centres and military towns saw the greatest decrease. This helped contribute to a greater concentration of Protestants in Northern Ireland.\n\nThis emigration affected the Free State economy as Protestants formed a significant part of its commercial and cultural activities.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1991 there was a decrease in the Protestant population in the Irish Free State and then the Republic of Ireland, however by the 2002, there has been an increase in the three main Protestant denominations: Anglicanism, Presbyterianism, and Methodism.\n\nThe number of Protestants belonging to the Church of Ireland in the Republic in 1991 stood at 89,197. By 2006, this number was 121,229, and by 2011 129,039. It was during the 2002-2006 period that the number of members of the Church of Ireland and Presbyterian Church surpassed their 1946 totals. County Clare has the smallest population of Protestants in Ireland however its county town, Ennis, saw a six-fold increase in the Church of Ireland population - 68 to 400. The Presbyterian church between 1991 and 2002 saw an increase of almost 56%, followed by an increase of almost 20% between 2002 and 2011. The Methodist Church saw its membership increase nearly 100% between 1991 and 2002, though by 2011 it had declined by 31%.\n\nThe cause of this growth is stated as being a mixture of Protestant immigration and the conversion of Catholics. One notable convert was the Dean of Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin, Dr. Dermot Dunne, who was formerly a Catholic cleric. It has been suggested that Catholic Ireland has become more Protestant in social terms, whilst Protestantism itself has become more Catholic in some of its practices.\n\nDespite this, Protestantism since 2002 has been relegated to the third largest group recorded on the census, having been overtaken by those who choose \"No Religion\". Overall Protestants accounted for 4% of the total Irish population in 2006 and 2011. In the 2016 census Protestantism accounted for 4.2% of the population.\n\nIn regards to immigration, of the 137,048 people from the three main Protestant denominations (Church of Ireland, Presbyterian, Methodist) to declare their country of birth, only 94,889 (69.2%) stated the Republic. 27,928 of these immigrants came from the United Kingdom, whilst 3,575 were born in the rest of Europe, 6,641 were from Africa, 1,341 from Asia, 1,730 from America, and 944 from elsewhere.\n\nThe following table shows the figures for the main Protestant denominations in what is now the Republic of Ireland from 1901 to 2011:\n\nIn comparison, the number of Catholics increased from 3,681,446 to 3,861,335. People who stated they had no religion increased from 186,318 to 269,811.\n\nThe following table shows the percentage change between each census for the three main Protestant denominations in what is now the Republic of Ireland from 1901 to 2011:\nThe following table shows the annual percentage change for the three main Protestant denominations in what is now the Republic of Ireland from 1901 to 2011:\n\n"}
{"id": "38013371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38013371", "title": "Sanctum (temple)", "text": "Sanctum (temple)\n\nSanctum is a sacred place, in a shrine within a temple or church. It also refers to a sacred place of pilgrimage. \n\nThe Latin word \"sanctum\" is the neuter form of the adjective \"holy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "526810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526810", "title": "Savitri Devi", "text": "Savitri Devi\n\nSavitri Devi Mukherji (30 September 1905 – 22 October 1982) was the pseudonym of the Greek-French-Italian writer Maximiani Portas (; also spelled Maximine Portaz), a prominent proponent of deep ecology and Nazism, who served the Axis cause during World War II by spying on Allied forces in India. She wrote about animal rights movements and was a leading member of the Nazi underground during the 1960s.\n\nDevi authored the animal rights manifesto \"The Impeachment of Man\" in 1959 and was a proponent of Hinduism and Nazism, synthesizing the two, proclaiming Adolf Hitler to have been sent by Providence, much like an avatar of the Hindu God Vishnu. She believed Hitler was a sacrifice for humanity which would lead to the end of the Kali Yuga induced by those who she felt were the powers of evil, the Jews. Her writings have influenced neo-Nazism and Nazi occultism. Among Savitri Devi's ideas was the classifications of \"men above time\", \"men in time\" and \"men against time\". Rejecting Judeo-Christianity, she believed in a form of pantheistic monism; a single cosmos of nature composed of divine energy-matter.\n\nShe is credited with pioneering neo-Nazi interest in occultism, deep ecology and the New Age movement, and more contemporaneously has influenced the alt-right. She also influenced the Chilean diplomat Miguel Serrano. In 1982, Franco Freda published a German translation of her work \"Gold in the Furnace\", and the fourth volume of his annual review, \"Risguardo\" (1980–), was devoted to Savitri Devi as the \"missionary of Aryan Paganism\".\n\nSavitri was an associate in the post-war years of Françoise Dior, Otto Skorzeny, Johannes von Leers, and Hans-Ulrich Rudel. She was also one of the founding members of the World Union of National Socialists.\n\nBorn as Maximiani Julia Portas in 1905, Savitri Devi was the daughter of Maxim Portas, a French citizen of Greek and Italian ancestry and an Englishwoman, Julia Portas (née Nash). Maximine Portas was born two and a half months premature, weighing only 930 grams (2.05 lbs), and was not at first expected to live. She formed her political views early. From childhood and throughout her life, she was a passionate advocate for animal rights. Her earliest political affiliations were with Greek nationalism.\n\nPortas studied philosophy and chemistry, earning two master's degrees and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Lyon. She next traveled to Greece, and surveyed the legendary ruins. Here, she became familiar with Heinrich Schliemann's discovery of swastikas in Anatolia. Her conclusion was that Ancient Greeks were Aryan in origin. Her first two books were her doctoral dissertations: \"Essai-critique sur Théophile Kaïris\" (\"Critical Essay on Theophilos Kairis\") (Lyon: Maximine Portas, 1935) and \"La simplicité mathématique\" (\"Mathematical Simplicity\") (Lyon: Maximine Portas, 1935). Sometime between 1932 and 1935, she was the French tutor of the philosopher Cornelius Castoriadis (1922–1997), as he revealed in a radio interview by Katherine von Bülow (\"France Culture\" 20/4/1996).\n\nIn early 1928, she renounced her French citizenship and acquired Greek nationality. Joining a pilgrimage to Palestine during Lent in 1929, Portas decided that she was a National Socialist.\n\nIn 1932, she travelled to India in search of a living pagan Aryan culture. Formally adhering to Hinduism, she took the name Savitri Devi (\"Sun-rays Goddess\" in Sanskrit). She volunteered at the Hindu Mission as an advocate against Judeo-Christianity, and wrote \"A Warning to the Hindus\" to offer her support for Hindu nationalism and independence, and to rally resistance to the spread of Christianity and Islam in India. During the 1930s, she distributed pro-Axis propaganda and engaged in intelligence gathering on the British in India. She claimed that, during the World War II, she enabled Subhas Chandra Bose (leader of the Axis-affiliated Indian National Army) to make contact with representatives of the Empire of Japan.\n\nDuring World War II, Devi's connection to the Axis powers led to a clash with her mother, who served with the French Resistance during the German occupation of France. In 1940, Devi married Asit Krishna Mukherji, a Bengali Brahmin with National Socialist views who edited the pro-German newspaper \"New Mercury\". During 1941, Devi chose to interpret Allied military support for Greece, against Italian and German forces, as an invasion of Greece. Devi and Mukherji continued to gather intelligence for the Axis cause. This included entertaining Allied personnel, which gave Devi and Mukherji an opportunity to question them regarding military matters. The information gathered was passed on to Japanese intelligence officials and contributed to attacks on Allied airbases and army units.\n\nAfter World War II, she travelled to Europe in late 1945 under the name Savitri Devi Mukherji as the wife of a British subject from India, under a British Indian passport. She stopped briefly in England, then visited her mother in France, and then travelled on to Iceland where she witnessed the eruption of Mount Hekla. She then returned to England, before travelling to Sweden where she met with Sven Hedin.\n\nOn 15 June 1948 she took the Nord-Expreß from Denmark to Germany, where she distributed many thousands of copies of handwritten leaflets encouraging the \"Men and women of Germany\" to \"hold fast to our glorious National Socialist faith, and resist!\" She recounted her experience in \"Gold in the Furnace\" (which has been reedited in honor of her 100th birthday under the title \"Gold in the Furnace: Experiences in Post-War Germany\").\n\nArrested for posting bills, she was tried in Düsseldorf on 5 April 1949 for the promotion of Nazi ideas on German territory subject to the Allied Control Council, and sentenced to two years imprisonment. She served eight months in Werl prison, where she befriended her fellow Nazi and SS prisoners (recounted in \"Defiance\"), before being released and expelled from Germany. She then went to stay in Lyon, France.\n\nIn April 1953, she obtained a Greek passport in her maiden name in order to re-enter Germany, and she began a pilgrimage, as she called it, of Nazi \"holy\" sites. She flew from Athens to Rome then travelled by rail over the Brenner Pass into \"Greater Germany\", which she regarded as \"the spiritual home of all racially conscious modern Aryans\". She travelled to a number of sites significant in the life of Adolf Hitler and the NSDAP (Nazi party), as well as German nationalist and heathen monuments, as recounted in her 1958 book \"Pilgrimage\".\n\nSavitri Devi became friends with Hans-Ulrich Rudel, and completed her manuscript of \"The Lightning and the Sun\" at his home in March 1956. Through his introductions she was able to meet a number of Nazi émigrés in Spain and the Middle East. In 1957 she stayed with Johannes von Leers in Egypt as she traveled across the Middle East when returning home to New Delhi, including stops in Beirut, Damascus, Baghdad, Tehran, and Zahedan. In 1961 she stayed with Otto Skorzeny in Madrid.\n\nSavitri Devi took employment teaching in France during the 1960s, spending her summer holidays with friends at Berchtesgaden. In the spring of 1961, while on her Easter holiday in London she learned of the original British National Party. This group emerged after the Second World War when a handful of former members of the British Union of Fascists took on the name. (The original BNP was absorbed quite quickly into the Union Movement – it is not directly connected with the present BNP.) She met with the British National Party president Andrew Fountaine. Beginning a correspondence with Colin Jordan, she became a devoted supporter of the National Socialist Movement.\n\nIn August 1962, Savitri Devi attended the international Nazi conference in Gloucestershire and was a founder-signatory of the Cotswold Agreement that established the World Union of National Socialists (WUNS). At this conference she met, and was greatly impressed by, George Lincoln Rockwell. When Rockwell became leader of WUNS, he appointed William Luther Pierce editor of its new magazine: \"National Socialist World\" (1966–68). Along with articles by Jordan and Rockwell, Pierce devoted nearly eighty pages of the first issue to a condensed edition of \"The Lightning and the Sun\". Because of the enthusiastic response, Pierce included chapters from \"Gold in the Furnace\" and \"Defiance\" in subsequent issues.\n\nAfter retiring from teaching in 1970, Savitri Devi spent nine months at the Normandy home of close friend Françoise Dior while working on her memoirs; although she was at first welcome, her annoying personal habits began to disrupt life at the presbytery (amongst other traits, she did not take a bath during her stay and chewed garlic continually). Concluding that her pension would go much further in India and encouraged by Françoise Dior, she flew from Paris to Bombay on 23 June 1971. In August she moved to New Delhi, where she lived alone, with a number of cats and at least one cobra.\n\nSavitri Devi continued correspondence with Nazi enthusiasts in Europe and the Americas, particularly with Colin Jordan, John Tyndall, Matt Koehl, Miguel Serrano and Ernst Zündel. She was the first to claim to Zündel that the Nazi genocide of the Jews was untrue; he proposed a series of taped interviews (conducted in November 1978) and published a new illustrated edition of \"The Lightning and the Sun\" in 1979.\n\nDevi was a pioneer in animal rights activism, and was a vegetarian from a young age and held ecologist views in her works. She wrote \"Impeachment of Man\" in 1959 in India in which she declared her views on animal rights and nature. According to her, human beings do not stand above the animals; but in her ecologist views, humans are rather a part of the ecosystem and should respect all life, including animals and the whole of nature.\n\nShe always held radical views on vegetarianism and supported the death penalty for those who did not \"respect nature or animals\". She once broke into laboratories and took animals being held there, releasing them from being used in experiments. She believed that vivisection, circuses, slaughter and fur industries among others do not belong in a civilized society.\n\nBy the late 1970s she had developed cataracts and her eyesight was rapidly deteriorating. A clerk from the French embassy in India named Myriam Hirn looked after her, making regular house visits. She decided to leave India, returning to Germany to live in Bavaria in 1981 before re-moving to France in 1982.\n\nShe eventually died in 1982 in Sible Hedingham, Essex, England, at a friend's home. The cause of death was recorded as myocardial infarction and coronary thrombosis. She was \"en route\" to lecture in America at the invitation of Matt Koehl at the time. Devi's ashes are enshrined next to those of George Lincoln Rockwell in the small red brick building, often misidentified today as Rockwell's former headquarters (now a coffee shop called The Java Shack) in Arlington, Virginia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42805696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42805696", "title": "Shamsi Ali", "text": "Shamsi Ali\n\nImam Shamsi Ali is a prominent moderate Muslim Scholar known for promoting interfaith dialogues among Abrahamic Religions in United States and the Chairman of the Al-Hikmah Mosque and the Director of Jamaica Muslim Center in Jamaica, Queens, New York City.\n\nAli was born as Muhammad Utteng Ali in the village of Bulukumba in Kajang district of Bulukumba Regency in South Sulawesi, Indonesia on October 5, 1967. He is the third of six children (though only five survived into adulthood). His parents were a couple with farming background, Ali Kadrun (father) and Inong Tippangrom (mother).\n\nHis parents were not religious, but they wanted him to learn how to read the Koran, so they sent him to \"Daarul Arqam\" Islamic boarding school. During his childhood, Utteng (as he used to be called) was rebellious, lazy and often truant. He was one time detained for hitting a student named Mustafa, breaking his nose and sending him to the hospital. Mustafa's parents then called the police and they arrested him, though he was not entirely guilty. Finally Utteng was jailed for two weeks. Fortunately, he was not expelled from the boarding school due to the incident.\n\nHis name was changed from \"Utteng\" to \"Shamsi\" (an Arabic word which means \"Sun\") when he and his father met with the \"Daarul Arqam\" school headmaster, Abdul Jabbar Asyiri. The headmaster argued that in Islam, the name is a prayer and should have a good sense, and he eventually renamed his middle name from \"Utteng\" to \"Shamsi\" with hope, Utteng could be the praiseworthy one (from his first name) and can illuminate (from his middle name, with the same way the sun does) people's hearts.\n\nAfter completing primary school at age 12 in the village of Tana Toa in Bulukumba Regency, his parents sent him to \"Darul-Arqam\" pesantren (Islamic boarding school) in Makassar, which is owned by the Muhammadiyah organization. After graduating from the boarding school in 1987, Shamsi Ali stayed there as a teacher until the end of 1988.\n\nHe received a scholarship offer from Rabithah Alam Islami to study at the International Islamic University, Islamabad, Pakistan. He completed his undergraduate in Tafseer in 1992 and continued his master at the same university in the field of Comparative Religion in 1994. During his study in Pakistan, Shamsi Ali also worked as a lecturer at the school funded by Saudi Arabia, \"the Red Crescent Society\" in Islamabad, where later he received an offer to teach at the Islamic Education Foundation in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia in early 1995.\n\nIn 1996 Hajj season, Shamsi Ali got a mandate to speak at the Consulate General of Indonesia in Jeddah. From there, he met with some foreign hajj pilgrims, including the Indonesian Ambassador to the United Nations, Nugroho Wisnumurti, who once offered him to come to New York to build a new mosque for Indonesian community. Shamsi Ali accepted the offer and moved to New York in early 1997.\n\nAli earned Ph.D in Political Science from Southern California University in 2003. Besides Indonesian as his Native Language and Buginese language as his mother-tongue, Ali is also fluent in Arabic, English, and Urdu.\n\nDuring his study in Islamabad, he was hired as a muezzin in Faisal Mosque, the biggest mosque in the city. He saved money to fund his hajj (pilgrimage) and wedding.\n\nAfter arriving in New York in 1996, he served as an imam to an Indonesian community mosque in Long Island City, Queens. Through funding from the Indonesian Mission to the UN, Bank of Indonesia and the Indonesian consulate of New York, the community purchased a chemical warehouse for $350,000 on the 31st Street and 48th Avenue in Astoria, Queens. In 2001, he was appointed as deputy Imam of Islamic Cultural Center of New York which is the city’s largest mosque located in 96th street and 3rd Ave in Manhattan, but left the position in 2011.\n\nShamsi Ali is also the Chairman of the Board of Trustees for the ASEAN Muslim Federation of North America. He also serves as the Vice President of the Asian-American Coalition USA (AAC-USA) and its UN Representative and as an Advisory Board member to numerous interfaith organizations, including the Tanenbaum Center and Federation for Middle East Peace.\n\nIn interfaith organizations, Imam Ali serves as a Board member for the Partnership of Faith in NY, and co-founder of the UNCC (Universal Clergy Coalition-International). Furthermore, he is also Assistant Director and a Board member of the Muslim Foundation of America, Inc., and Chairman of the annual Muslim Day Parade in NYC.\n\nA few days after the events of 11 September 2001, New York City chose him to represent the Muslim community to visit the scene, where he met President George W. Bush. He also recited a prayer at the memorial service for the September 11th victims at Yankee stadium in the Bronx.\n\nIn 2002, Ali was appointed \"Ambassador for Peace\" by the International Religious Federation, and a recipient of ICLI Interfaith Award in 2008. Ali was chosen as one of the seven most influential religious leaders in New York City by New York Magazine in 2006.\n\nHe represented the Muslim community at an interfaith discussion on Religions and Sustainable Development in the White House 2007, and took part in the Transatlantic Interfaith Dialogue in Frankfurt, Germany 2008.\n\nWithin the Indonesian Muslim community in North America, he serves as an Advisory Board to major national Muslim organizations such as IMSA (Indonesian Muslim Society in America) and ICMI (Indonesian Muslim Intellectual Society in America). He is also the president of Nusantara Foundation, a community based operating and non-profit organization in New York that is established, publicly supported, operated by, and for the benefit of Indonesian culture.\n\nShamsi Ali was accused by some people of Islamic Cultural Center of New York of misconduct during his time as the Imam. Furthermore, some congregations disagreed with his \"liberal\" approaches, especially his interfaith activities which they said were controversial. Other people at the mosque accused him not to do good in the wider community, but instead he went out and made friends with Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Kelly. Some people then refused to attend Ali's prayers. His teachings about how to lead a modern Islamic life in a Western society infuriated some congregants.\n\nOne of scholars in South Africa even issued a fatwa, cautioning Muslims against performing prayers led by Ali. The worst accusation against him was that he had been accused by takfiris of committing apostasy. Some fundamentalist Muslims in Queens disagreed with Ali's approach to youths to be closer to Islam. They accused him of corrupting Muslim youths' mentality by letting them use the mosque's basement for practicing music which they considered haram. They also accused him of being an FBI mouthpiece. On another occasion, this group of people opposed Ali's defense of a Shi'a Muslim who was rallying against terrorism and injustice, whom they considered an infidel. According to Ali, one of these groups is thought to be an American offshoot of the London-based Al-Muhajiroun, which is infamous for its conference \"The Magnificent 19,\" praising those who carried out the 9/11 attacks.\n\nAli left his position at ICC of New York (the management at ICC insisted that he was \"fired\") in 2011. He continues his position as the director of Jamaica Muslim Center in Astoria, Queens since 2004 and as the chairman of \"Al-Hikmah\" mosque since 1996.\n\nIn September 2015 Ali sharply criticized Chairman of the DPR of Indonesia, Setya Novanto and its Deputy Speaker Fadli Zon for attending Donald Trump's press conference. Shamsi said the meeting had humiliated Indonesian state leaders and was full of political interests. He said it was obvious that the press conference was part of a campaign event. He further said the presence of Setya and Fadli, who stood behind Trump as the US business tycoon delivered a speech, was deplorable. In addition, according to Imam Shamsi Ali, Donald Trump is known for his racist and anti-immigrant comments, including the anti-Muslim sentiments.\n\nAli has written many articles, given speeches and initiated dialogues with various religious leaders about the importance of dialogues among Muslims, Christians, Jews and other religious groups toward peace. He has made countless appearances on TV (ABC, PBS, BBC World, CNN, Fox News, National Geographic, al-Jazeera, the Hallmark Channel) to condemn terrorism, radicalism, anti-Semitism and to promote peaceful Islam.\n\nAli has authored four books: \"Dai muda di New York City\" (A Young Dai in New York City), \"The True Love in America; 29 Kisah Mualaf Amerika\" (The True Love in America: 29 stories of Muallaf in America), \"Menebar Damai di Bumi Barat\" (Spreading Peace in Western World). The former US president Bill Clinton gave a foreword to his fourth book, a memoir, entitled \"Sons Of Abraham: A Candid Conversation about the Issues That Divide and Unite Jews and Muslims\" which he co-authored with Marc Schneier, a Jewish rabbi who is also his close friend.\n\nImam Ali was appointed \"Ambassador for Peace\" by the International Religious Federation in 2002, and a recipient of the 2008 ICLI Interfaith Award. In 2006, he was named one of seven most influential religious leaders in New York City by New York Magazine. He is also one of 100 recipients of the 2009 Ellis Island Medal of Honor Award. This prestigious non military gold medal is one of the highest awards recognized by US government to native-born and naturalized U.S. citizens with tremendous contributions to the American society and the world and for Shamsi Ali it was due to his endless dedication in building bridges between religious communities.\n\nOn September 18, 2010 Ali was granted Hall of Fame Award by AACUSA (Asian American Coalition USA) Inc. The award honored Ali as one of the seven outstanding individuals within their respective Asian communities. According to the AACUSA, Dr. Parveen C. Chopra, Shamsi Ali has reached across the division and became part of the Muslims’ voice at the United Nations forums, churches, synagogues, the NYPD, FBI and major news outlets including, ABC, PBS, BBC World, CNN, Fox News, National Geographic, Al-Jazeera and the Hallmark Channel.\n\nHe was also chosen as one of The 500 Most Influential Muslims in the world in 2009, 2010, and 2011 by the Royal Islamic Strategic Studies Center in Jordan and Georgetown University.\n\nIn April 2014, NY senate commended him to be the recipient of Turkish Cultural Center's Friendship Award, which he received along with Rabbi Marc Schneier during the ceremony on April 10, 2014 at the Turkish Cultural Center of Queens.\n\nUnlike many imams in United States, Ali likes and listens to rap and hip-hop music such as songs produced by hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons. Some people call him \"Hip Imam\".\n\nShamsi Ali lives with his wife (Mutiah Malik), four sons (Utsman, Adnan, Shakeel, Ayman) and two daughters (Maryam, Malika).\n\n"}
{"id": "6285811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6285811", "title": "Shilpa Shastras", "text": "Shilpa Shastras\n\nShilpa Shastras ( \"\") literally means the Science of Shilpa (arts and crafts). It is an ancient umbrella term for numerous Hindu texts that describe arts, crafts, and their design rules, principles and standards. In the context of temple design, Shilpa Shastras were manuals for sculpture and Hindu iconography, prescribing among other things, the proportions of a sculptured figure, composition, principles, meaning, as well as rules of architecture.\n\nSixty-four techniques for such arts or crafts, sometimes called ' \"external or practical arts\", are traditionally enumerated, including carpentry, architecture, jewellery, farriery, acting, dancing, music, medicine, poetry etc., besides sixty-four ' or \"secret arts\", which include mostly \"erotic arts\" such as kissing, embracing, etc. (Monier-Williams s.v. \"\").\n\nWhile Shilpa and Vastu Shastras are related, Shilpa Shastras deal with arts and crafts such as forming statues, icons, stone murals, painting, carpentry, pottery, jewellery, dying, textiles and others. Vastu Shastras deal with building architecture – building houses, forts, temples, apartments, village and town layout, etc.\n\nShilpa (शिल्प) refers to any art or craft in ancient Indian texts, while Shastra means science. Together, Shilpa Shastra means the science of art and crafts. The ancient Sanskrit texts use the term Shilpin (शिल्पिन्, male artist) and Shilpini (शिल्पिनी, female artist) for artists and crafts person, while Shilpani refers to works of arts of man.\n\nThe meaning of Shilpa, according to Stella Kramrisch, is complex. She writes that it consists of \"art, skill, craft, labor, ingenuity, rite and ritual, form and creation.\" The range of crafts encompassed by the term Shilpa extends to every aspect of culture, includes sculptor, the potter, the perfumer, the wheelwright, the painter, the weaver, the architect, the dancer, the musician, the arts of love, and others. Ancient Indian texts assert that the number of the arts is unlimited, they deploy sixty four \"kala\" (कला, techniques) and thirty two \"vidyas\" (विद्या, fields of knowledge). Shilpa is discussed in Agamas, Puranas and Vastu Shastra where it is linked to the mythology of Vishvakarma.\n\nShilpa Shastras include chapters on paintings, both miniature and large. For example, Narada Shilpa Shastra dedicates chapters 66 and 71 to painting, while Saraswati Shilpa Shastra describes various types of chitra (full painting), ardhachitra (sketch work), chitrabhasa (communication through painting), varna samskara (preparation of colors).\n\nOther ancient Shilpa Shastra on painting include Vishnudharmottara Purana and Chitralakshana, former is available in Sanskrit while the only surviving copies of latter are in Tibetan (both were originally written on birch bark, and have been translated into English and German). These Sanskrit treatises discuss the following aspects of a painting: measurement, proportions, perspective of the viewer, mudra, emotions, and rasa (meaning). Such an approach of Indian paintings, states Isabella Nardi, make Shilpa Shastra not only canonical textual sources but also a means to transmit knowledge and spiritual themes.\n\nThe first chapter of Shilpa Shastra Manasara discusses the measurement principles for carpentry. The 9th-century version of Mayamata text of Tamil Nadu and 16th Century version of Shilparatna of Odisha describe takshaka and vardhaki as wood Shilpins; takshaka possesses the knowledge of wood types and practices the art of cutting wood, while vardhaki possesses the knowledge of wood forms and practices the art of carpentry. One of the earliest mentions of carpentry arts is in Book 9, Chapter 112 of Rig Veda. Carpentry was also an essential Shilpa Shastra during the construction of a Hindu temple.\n\nThe Vedas, in particular Atharva veda and Sthapatya veda, describe many kinds of arts and crafts in their discussion of Shilpa Shastra and Yantra Sarvasva. The Rig veda, states Ravi, mentions equipment used in casting, such as dhamatri (cupola), gharma aranmaya (crucible) and bhastri (blower). These discussions are in the context of making idols, and describe rules to achieve best talmana (proportions), mudra (stance) and bhava (expression).\n\nSanskrit texts such as Shilparatna and Manasara describe in detail the process and principles for art work with metals, particularly for alloys such as panchadhatu (five metals – zinc, tin, copper, silver and gold) and ashtadhatu (eight metal alloys – which adds iron, lead and mercury to panchadhatu). Madhuchista Vidhana (cire perdue or lost wax) casting process is the most discussed process in these ancient shilpa shastras with metals. Kirk suggests that these Shastras diffused from India to other ancient cultures in Asia.\n\nWhile there is empirical evidence of high purity metallurgy and art works with other metals, some ancient Shilpa Shastras have been lost. For example, the 5th century Iron Pillar of Delhi, which stands 23 feet, weighs 6 tonnes and contains 99.72% iron without showing any signs of rust, is empirical evidence of the state of metallurgical arts in 5th century India.\n\nAll arts were the domain of all classes, castes and both genders in ancient India. The ancient texts of Parashara states that all crafts were practised by anyone irrespective of family's occupation. The Buddhist \"Jatakas\" mention Brahmin carpenters, the 4th century text \"Baudhayana\" describes chariot builders, carpenters, brick-workers, potters and metal workers from people of people classified as Kshatriya, Vaishya and Shudra. \"Suttavibhanga\" describes builders and wheelwrights born to Shudra father and Brahmin mother, who by later texts would be described as untouchables. The goldsmiths of Maharashtra included children born in cattle herding families.\n\nApprentices joined and trained under masters. The best were adopted and recognised as members of various art guilds. The training began from childhood, and included studies about dharma, culture, reading, writing, mathematics, geometry, colors, tools, as well as trade secrets – these were called Tradition.\n\nShilpins had formed Śreni (guilds) in ancient India. Each guild formed its own laws and code of conduct, one the ancient Hindu and Buddhist kings of India respected by tradition. In some cases, the king established the laws of the guilds; in some cases, the king's treasurer had the final word and served as judge of various guilds in a kingdom. These guilds, in the 1st millennium BC, included all those who practised the art irrespective of the artist's caste or creed. The income of each guild came from fees paid by new members joining the guild, from fines on those violating the code of conduct established by the guild, and levies on tools used for that art. The guilds also performed charity and gifted collective works of art by their members to temples and other social works. During festivals and social celebrations, each guild would contribute their own performance and pavilions with flags and emblems.\n\nCreative work and artists were granted the sanctions of a sacrament in ancient Indian culture, states Stella Kramrisch. An artist expresses the spiritual and holiness in his or her art. This belief continues to manifest itself in modern India in the form of rituals, where in an autumn festival (Dashahra), craftsmen in parts of India worship their tools with incense, flowers and unhusked rice.\n\nBrhat Samhita at verses 57.10-11 describes the practice of carpenters offering prayers and seeking forgiveness of a tree before cutting it for wood. The axe used to cut the tree would be rubbed with honey and butter to minimise the hurt to the tree which was considered to be a living being. Craft was seen as application of essence of Purusha (Universal Principles) to parts of nature so as to transform it into a work of art.\n\nSome known Shilpa Shastras-related manuscripts include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4842954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4842954", "title": "Supernatural abilities in Scientology doctrine", "text": "Supernatural abilities in Scientology doctrine\n\nIn the Church of Scientology doctrine, supernatural or superhuman abilities are a recurring subject, appearing throughout Scientology and Dianetics materials, from the most basic introductory texts to the highest-level Operating Thetan information. Virtually all of these concepts were authored by the church's founder, L. Ron Hubbard, and have not been subjected to testing outside the Church. The Church of Scientology have never offered any externally accepted, empirical, peer-reviewed evidence that Scientologists possess any of these abilities.\n\nMEST is an acronym Hubbard coined which stands for matter, energy, space and time, the component parts of the physical universe. It is claimed that by completing Scientology courses, it is possible to eventually attain \"cause over MEST\" — the ability to control matter, energy and spacetime in the physical universe, free of the encumbrance of the body.\n\nAccording to the Church of Scientology:\n\nHubbard first introduced Dianetics to the general public in April 1950, in an article published in the \"Astounding Science Fiction\" pulp magazine, and followed quickly with the book \"\" that same summer.\n\nDianetics postulates that there is a part of our psyche called the reactive mind, and that most of our mental and physical problems are psychosomatic, thus they can be solved by eliminating this portion of our minds. This mental state of self-mastery is called Clear.\nIn the 1992 Hardcover edition of \"\", Hubbard writes: \"A Clear, for instance, has complete recall of everything which ever happened to him, or anything he ever studied. He does mental computations, such as those in chess, for example, which a normal would do in half an hour, in ten or fifteen seconds.\" (p. 214).\n\nSpeaking on the subject of \"Exteriorization - communication in Theta and MEST\", Hubbard said that an individual thetan (person) has the ability to generate electricity by putting a \"beam\" inside a vacuum tube, or a bell jar that has had the air evacuated:\n\nThe \"immortality\" referred to is not immortality of the body, but of the thetan, and Scientology does not claim that it causes the thetan's immortality, but makes a Scientologist aware of that immortality and alleviates the distress that might otherwise be felt at the prospect of death:\n\nOn page 121 of the 1992 Hardcover edition of \"\", Hubbard writes: \"Clears do not get colds.\"\n\nIt is also hinted that achieving the state of Clear prolongs lifespan: \"What the lifespan of a Clear is cannot be answered now; ask in a hundred years.\" (p. 384)\n\nHubbard has claimed on numerous occasions that it is possible for Scientologists to use mind over matter to increase one's body weight, although why someone would specifically want to do this is not explained. In his book \"Understanding the E-meter\", Hubbard wrote that this assertion can be tested by \"mocking up\" mental pictures in one's imagination. \"This test has actually been made and an increase of as much as thirty pounds, actually measured on scales, has been added to and subtracted from a body by creating 'mental energy.'\" (p. 52)\n\nIn December 1954, Hubbard declared before a crowd at a lecture:\n\nIn 1957, Hubbard claimed that he was contacted by physicists from a scientific congress in Boston: \"They wanted to know if I had any proof I could offer that thought created matter\". Hubbard said he gave them all his data about using Scientology's mental \"mock-ups\" to increase body weight, and reported \"I got back a highly enthusiastic wire saying that my data, as sent to them, had been of great assistance.\" (\"Ability Congress\", 2nd lecture, December 1957)\n\nScientologists (especially Volunteer Ministers) are taught to administer the \"Touch Assist\", a procedure designed by Hubbard to help heal illnesses or injuries. The Scientologist touches the person's body in a set manner, avoiding sexual areas, and asks the recipient of the process, who is lying or sitting still, to \"Feel my finger\". This is continued until the recipient states that he feels better about what was bothering him and looks more cheerful overall. The process is claimed to help restore the spiritual being's (thetan in Scientology terminology) ability to communicate with the affected area and thereby to speed healing and reduce mental trauma.\n\nThe touch assist is not to be used to treat headaches, however: \"Do not do a Touch Assist on a person who has a headache. Research has shown that headaches are often the result of mental phenomena that a Touch Assist would be the incorrect handling for.\" (\"The Scientology Handbook\", 1994 edition, p. 218)\n\nIt is probably the most well-known of all Scientology Assists, which also include the \"Nerve Assist\" and the \"Unconscious Person Assist\".\n\nScientology promises the ability to hone one's \"theta perceptics\" (senses of the thetan rather than the physical \"meat body\") and promises \"Communication with the theta universe\" with enhanced 'perceptics' such as \"hunches, predictions, ESP at greater and lesser distances, communication with the dead, perception of the Supreme Being, etc.\" (\"Science of Survival\", 50th anniversary edition, 2001, p. 576.)\n\nHubbard claims that humans have precisely 57 of these 'perceptics'. The Super Power Rundown is intended to amplify these latent abilities of the thetan by way of becoming hyper-aware of the physical \"meat body\". These 'perceptics' are:\n\nTime, Sight; Taste, Color, Depth; Solidity (barriers); Relative sizes (external); Sound; Pitch; Tone; Volume; Rhythm; Smell; Touch (pressure, friction, heat or cold and oiliness); Personal emotion; Endocrine states; Awareness of awareness; Personal size; Organic sensation (including hunger); Heartbeat; Blood circulation; Cellular and bacterial position; Gravitic (self and other weights); Motion of self; Motion (exterior); Body position; Joint position; Internal temperature; External temperature; Balance; Muscular tension; Saline content of self (body); Fields/magnetic; Time track motion; Physical energy (personal weariness, etc.); Self-determinism; Moisture (self); Sound direction; Emotional state of other organs; Personal position on the tone scale; Affinity (self and others); Communication (self and others); Reality (self and others); Emotional state of groups; Compass direction; Level of consciousness; Pain; Perception of conclusions (past and present); Perception of computation (past and present); Perception of imagination (past and present); Perception of having perceived (past and present); Awareness of not knowing; Awareness of importance, unimportance; Awareness of others; Awareness of location and placement (masses, spaces and location itself); Perception of appetite; Kinesthesia.\nThe Church describes the Super Power Rundown as \"A super fantastic, but confidential series of rundowns that can be done on anybody whether Dn Clear or not that puts the person into fantastic shape unleashing Super Power of a thetan. This means that puts Scientologists into a new realm of ability enabling them to create a new world.\" (\"Dianetics and Scientology Technical Dictionary\", 1982 hardcover edition) The exact nature of these \"Super Powers\" have not yet been enumerated, at least to the public.\n\nScientology researcher Martin Hunt says that the Super Power Rundown is \"expected to make planetary clearing and the expanding of all service organizations to the size of old Saint Hill a reality\". This refers to a directive issued by the Church that their primary goal must be to expand the size of all Scientology service organizations to the size that Saint Hill was in the 1960s - in other words, more than 200 staff members in each organization.\n\nThe Super Power Building is currently under construction in Clearwater, Florida for the purpose of administering this rundown. However, it has been plagued with construction setbacks since its initial groundbreaking in 1998.\n\nTwo Scientologists, Hal Puthoff and Ingo Swann, researched remote viewing at Stanford Research Institute for the CIA Project Stargate in the 1970s. Most of the SRI team, including project director Puthoff, and the CIA's star \"psychic spies\", Price and Swann, were Scientologists, a fact that skeptic Martin Gardner noted disparagingly. Puthoff and Swann were of the \"original\" Operating Thetan (OT) VII level (the Church has since 'changed' OT VII from the level these two completed), and credited Scientology with their success in the CIA remote viewing program.\n\nFrom the book \"What is Scientology?\": \"Can OTs read minds? ...to answer the question bluntly - yes, with varying degrees of ability\". (First printing, 1978, p. 215)\n\nIn \"Scientology 8-8008\", Hubbard states that Scientology training can make one aware of one's ability to turn illusions into MEST reality, and that even a preclear is \"capable of producing illusions sufficiently strong to be observable by others\". Hubbard speaks of \"rehabilitating\" the preclear so that he \"begins to recognize that his viewpoint is expanding and that he is becoming all-pervasive\", and then goes on to say:\n\nBeyond even the powerful Operating Thetan levels comes \"Cleared Theta Clear,\" a state which Hubbard describes this way:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56032594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56032594", "title": "Terris Nguyen Temple", "text": "Terris Nguyen Temple\n\nTerris Nguyen Temple, born in California 1944, studied the art of Tibetan Thangka painting in Nepal during the years 1966 to 1975. For the past twenty five years, the Nguyen Temples have been the official artists to the 17th Gyalwa Karmapa and Tsurphu Monastery, Tibet. \n\nTerris' first teacher was the State Artist of Tibet, the late Master Jampa Tsedan, the Dalai Lama's artist. Later Terris studied with the late Taklung Tsetrul Rinpoche - Simla, India; the late Sherpa artist Pargyaltsen (Kapa Ngawong Damcho) - Nepal; the late Dolpo artist Pema Wangyal, and the late Newar artist Siddhimuni Shakya - Kathmandu. In 1969 Terris became one of the 16th Karmapa's original Western disciples. In 1974 at the invitation of the Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, Terris taught thangka painting at the then Naropa Institute in Boulder Colorado, now Naropa University. This was the opening year of the Institute.\n\n1992–1997 Terris and fellow artist Leslie Nguyen created two giant silk appliques for Tsurphu Monastery in Tibet.\n\nTwo ceremonial banners, as companion pieces for the two giant appliques were requested by Tsurphu in 1997. These works are shown annually during major cultural festivals at Tsurphu, attended by devotees from all over Tibet, a tradition that began at the monastery in 1590. During Saga Dawa, the festival honoring the Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and Parnirvana, the Karma Gadri Goku is shown. It takes a minimum of sixty strong people to carry the Karma Gadri Thangka out of the Temple for display on the Mountain.\n\nThe Tsechur Drabje (40m x 2m, 120 ft x 7 ft) which is the ceremonial companion piece, is being made now in India by the 17th Karmapa. Upon completion the two artists will take it to Tsurphu. The Mahakala Goku (completed in 1997), and its companion the Gutor (Norbu) Drabje appliqué (completed in 2007). They are both 120’ x 8’ (40 m x 2 m) and are used during the Gutor Festival to purify the Tibetan Lunar New Year. The Tsechur Drobje drawings were presented in 2016 to the 17th Karmapa Ogyen Trinley Dorje. The sewing work is expected to be completed in 2019 and will also be given to Tsurphu Monastery.\n\nOgyen Trinley Dorje is the supreme head of the 900 year old Karma Kagyu order of Tibetan Buddhism. Terris and Leslie are involved with the Karmapa’s Koryug Organization, doing environment projects in the Himalayas. Terris is also the Executive Director of Liberation Arts, a registered USA non profit organization, relating to art, culture and the environment. Liberation Arts was created with advice from the 17th Karmapa in 2010.\n\nPresently Terris is executive producer in a feature documentary “Thongdrol” on the subject of Tibetan art especially the lineage style Karma Gadri with the Karmapa. He is also completing a documentary “Tsurphu, the Giant Appliques\", using the archival footage of the giant appliqués created for Tsurphu, 1992–2017.\n\nIn Maui Hawaii 1976, the 16th Karmapa advised Terris to do flower and bird painting in addition to thangkas, which Terris only produces by commission. These bird and flower paintings are created using mineral and botanical pigments with the techniques of traditional Tibetan painting. A few are graced with the 17th Karmapa's calligraphy at the ages of 8 and 14 years old. \n\nThe natural palette consists of cinnabar, orpiment, realgar, malachite, azurite, red lead, mineral whites and the earth minerals delicately lined and shaded with lac, cochineal, indigo, safflower and a Himalayan leaf known as 'shung kan'.\n\nThese colors are natural pigments used before aniline dyes took the market in the 1860's and Terris has used them since the 1960's. The silks used are from China, Japan, Thailand and Vietnam. Many of these paintings are of extinct and endangered species as Terris is passionate on the preservation of our environment for future generations.\n\nTerris and Leslie continue making contributions to Tibetan Art.\n"}
{"id": "34031549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34031549", "title": "Universal Foundation for Better Living", "text": "Universal Foundation for Better Living\n\nThe Universal Foundation for Better Living, or UFBL, is a New Thought denomination that was founded in 1974 by Johnnie Colemon in Chicago, Illinois. Colemon founded the foundation as an association for African American New Thought ministers after breaking away from the Unity Church for \"blatant racism\". Rev. Colemon is often referred to as \"the First Lady of New Thought\".\n\nAfter founding the first predominantly African American Unity Church in 1954, Colemon broke away in 1974. Named the Universal Foundation for Better Living, the foundation had 22,000 members in the late 1980s, with a 32-acre facility in the Chicago-area. The foundation adheres closely to the principles taught by Charles and Myrtle Fillmore.\n\nToday the denomination has more than 30 churches across the U.S., Canada, and the Caribbean, with a majority of African American members. Colemon appointed Mary A. Tumpkin as President of the foundation in 1995, where she served until she died in November 2013. In 2015, the Sheila R. McKeithen became the foundation’s third President.\n\n"}
{"id": "5670524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5670524", "title": "Urarina people", "text": "Urarina people\n\nThe local vernacular term for the Urarina is \"Shimaku\", which is considered by the Urarina to be pejorative, as it is a Quechua term meaning \"unreliable\". The ethnonym \"Urarina\" may be from Quechua--\"uray\" meaning below, and \"rina\" referring to \"runa\", or \"people\". Urarina is rendered in Quechua as \"uray-runa\" or \"people from below\" or \"down stream people\".\n\nUrarina society and culture have been given little attention in the burgeoning ethnographic literature of the region, and only sporadic references in the encyclopedic genre of Peruvian Amazonia. Accounts of the Urarina peoples are limited to the data reported by Castillo, by the German ethnologist G. Tessmann in his \"Die Indianer Nordost-Peru\", and to the observations of missionaries and contemporary adventure seekers.\n\nThe Urarina are a semi-mobile hunting and horticultural society whose population is estimated to be around 2,000. Urarina settlements are composed of multiple longhouse groups, located on high ground (\"restingas\") or embankments along the flood-free margins of the Chambira Basin's many rivers and streams. The embankments are bounded by low-lying territories (\"tahuampa \" and \"bajiales\") that are susceptible to flooding during the annual rainy season (roughly November–May).\n\nUrarina local politics are characterized by a mercurial balance of power between demes united through affinal ties and episodic political alliances, exchange relations, and disputation. Surrounded by the Jivaroan, and the Tupi–Guarani-speaking Cocama-Cocamilla indigenous peoples of the upper Amazon, the Urarina have an elaborate animistic cosmological system. It is based on ayahuasca shamanism, which is based in part on the profoundly ritualized consumption of \"Brugmansia suaveolens\".\n\nThe Urarina customarily practice brideservice, uxorilocal patterns of post-nuptial residence, and sororal polygyny. While men are esteemed for their hunting prowess and shamanic skills, Urarina women are likewise recognized for their craftsmanship: the women are consummate producers of woven palm-fiber bast mats, hammocks, and net-bags.\nDocumentation of the Urarina language, which has been classified as a language isolate or unclassified language by Terrence Kaufman (1990) is now under-way. Linguistic work among the Urarina was first pioneered by SIL International.\n\nThe Urarina have a deluge-myth, in which a man saved himself from the deluge while climbing a cudí (amasiza, Erythrina elei) tree; the man's wife was transformed into a termites' nest clinging to that tree, while their two sons became birds. Afterwards that man acquired a wife, a different woman, one who had at first summoned successively a pit viper, a spider, and a giant biting ant in an unsuccessful attempt to evade him. \nIn another Urarina deluge-myth, a deluge was produced, on the occasion of a cassava-beer festival, by the urination by the daughter of the ayahuasca-god, \"giving rise to the chthonic world of spirits\".\n\nThe Urarina continue to tell elaborate myths and stories about the violence that they experience from outsiders, which historically has included forced-labor conscription, rape, disease, concubinage, and abusive treatment at the hands of outsiders. Portions of the Bible were first published in Urarina in 1973; however, the complete Bible is not published.\n\nDespite challenges to their ongoing cultural survival, including ecocide, inadequate health-care, and cultural appropriation, the Urarina have both been inspired by and resisted the violence of the colonial and postcolonial encounters in Amazonia, particularly during the Alberto Fujimori regime.\n\nContemporary indigenous resistance has involved intercultural education projects, as well as Urarina political mobilization.\n\n\nBartholomew Dean : \"The Poetics of Creation : Urarina Cosmogony and Historical Consciousness\". In :- \"LATIN AMERICAN INDIAN LITERATURES JOURNAL\", Vol. 10 (1994)\n\n"}
