{"id": "46636614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46636614", "title": "Anasakti Yoga", "text": "Anasakti Yoga\n\nAnasakti Yoga is a way of life described by Mahatma Gandhi. He translated the Slokas of Bhagavad Gita and named it \"Anasakti Yoga\".\n"}
{"id": "41428393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41428393", "title": "Ann Cudd", "text": "Ann Cudd\n\nAnn E. Cudd is Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor & Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. From August 2015-August 2018, She was Dean of the College and Graduate School of Arts & Sciences at Boston University. She was formerly Vice Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Studies as well as the University Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the University of Kansas. She is also an affiliated faculty member with the Women, Gender, and Sexualities Studies Program. Cudd is one of the founders of analytical feminism, was a founding member of the Society for Analytical Feminism, and served as its president from 1995-1999.\n\nCudd received a dual baccalaureate in mathematics and philosophy from Swarthmore College in 1982 before going on to the University of Pittsburgh to receive a master's in philosophy, economics, and a doctorate in philosophy, in 1984, 1986, and 1988 respectively. After receiving her doctorate, Cudd accepted a position at Assistant Professor at the University of Kansas. She left in 1991 for a similar position at Occidental College, but returned to the University of Kansas in 1993. She was promoted to Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Kansas in 1994, full Professor of Philosophy in 2000, and received a secondary appointment as Director and full Professor of Gender and Women's Studies in 2001 (which she held until 2008, when she became an affiliated faculty member.)\n\nIn 2008, Cudd became the Associate Dean for Humanities for the University of Kansas, and in 2012, Cudd was named Distinguished Professor, the highest academic honor the University of Kansas bestows on faculty members. In 2013, Cudd was named Vice Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Studies.\n\nCudd's research has focused in several areas, namely feminist theory, the philosophy of social science, and social and political philosophy. Cudd is one of the founders of analytical feminism, a branch of feminism which seeks to apply the methods of analytical philosophy to feminist issues and topics. She's authored two books and co-edited three more: \"Capitalism For and Against: A Feminist Debate\" (coauthored with Nancy Holmstrom in 2011, \"Analyzing Oppression\" in 2006, co-edited \"Philosophical Perspectives on Democracy in the 21st Century\" with Sally Scholz in 2014, co-edited \"Feminist Theory: A Philosophical Anthology\" in 2006, and co-edited \"Theorizing Backlash: Philosophical Reflections on the Resistance to Feminism\" in 2002. She has also written dozens of articles in peer-reviewed journals, written several encyclopedia articles, and many book reviews.\n\nMuch of Cudd's work analyzes power relationships through rational choice theory. Cudd's analysis of oppression argues that in an objective moral theory it is necessary to know whether or not harms experienced by individuals were indeed actual harms that the person shouldn't have suffered and are thus, in fact, oppressive. Cudd argues that the simple absence of good choices is not a form of coercion - for coercion to occur, objectively better choices must have been available to the subject.\n\n\n\n\nPersonal Website\n\nPersonal Youtube Channel \n"}
{"id": "2214334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2214334", "title": "Arthur Collier", "text": "Arthur Collier\n\nArthur Collier (12 October 1680September 1732) was an English Anglican priest and philosopher.\n\nCollier was born at the rectory of Steeple Langford, Wiltshire. He entered Pembroke College, Oxford, in July 1697, but in October 1698 he and his brother William became members of Balliol.\nHis father having died in 1697, it was arranged that the family living of Langford Magna should be given to Arthur as soon as he was old enough.\n\nHaving graduated from Oxford and been made a priest, Collier was presented to the benefice of Steeple Langford in 1704, holding it till his death in 1732.\nHis sermons show no traces of his bold theological speculations, and he seems to have been faithful in the discharge of his duty. Largely due to the extravagance of his wife, he was often in financial difficulties, from which at last he was obliged to free himself by selling the reversion of the Langford advowson to Corpus Christi College, Oxford.\n\nHis philosophical opinions grew out of a diligent study of Descartes and Malebranche. John Norris also strongly influenced him by his \"An Essay towards the Theory of the Ideal or Intelligible World\" (1701–1704). It is remarkable that Collier makes no reference to Locke, and shows no sign of having any knowledge of his works. As early as 1703 he seems to have become convinced of the non-existence of an absolute external world, which would have no relation to a perceiving observer. In 1712 he wrote two essays, which are still in manuscript, one on substance and accident, and the other called \"Clavis Philosophica\". His chief work appeared in 1713, under the title \"Clavis Universalis\", or \"A New Inquiry after Truth, being a Demonstration of the NonExistence or Impossibility of an External World\" (printed privately, Edinburgh, 1836, and reprinted in Metaphysical Tracts, 1837, edited by Sam. Parr). It was favourably mentioned by Reid, Stewart and others, was frequently referred to by the Leibnitzians, and was translated into German by Johann Christian Eschenbach the Elder in 1756, Berkeley's \"Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge\" and \"Theory of Vision\" preceded it by three and four years respectively, but there is no evidence that they were known to Collier before the publication of his book.\n\nHis views are grounded on two presuppositions:\n\nThe former is the basis of the negative part of his argument; the latter supplies him with all the positive account he has to give, and that is meagre enough. The Clavis consists of two parts. After explaining that he will use the term \"external world\" in the sense of \"absolute, self-existent, independent matter\", he attempts in the first part to prove that \"the visible world is not external\", by showing first, that the seeming externality of a visible object is no proof of real externality, and second, that a visible object, as such, is not external.\n\nThe image of a centaur seems as much external to the mind as any object of sense; and since the difference between imagination and perception is only one of degree, God could so act upon the mind of a person imagining a centaur, that he would perceive it as vividly as any object can be seen. Similar illustrations are used to prove the second proposition, that a visible object, as such, is not external.\n\nThe first part ends with a reply to objections based on the universal consent of men, on the assurance given by touch of the extra existence of the visible world, and on the truth and goodness of God (Descartes), which would be impugned if our senses deceived us. Collier argues naively that if universal consent means the consent of those who have considered the subject, it may be claimed, for his view. He thinks with Berkeley, that objects of sight are quite distinct from those of touch, and that the one therefore cannot give any assurance of the other; and he asks the Cartesians to consider how far God's truth and goodness are called in question by their denial of the externality of the secondary qualities.\n\nThe second part of the book is taken up with a number of metaphysical arguments to prove the impossibility of an external world. The pivot of this part is the logical principle of contradiction. From the hypothesis of an external world a series of contradictions are deduced, such as that the world is both finite and infinite, is movable and immovable, &c.; and finally, Aristotle and various other philosophers are quoted, to show that the external matter they dealt with, as mere potentiality, is just nothing at all. Among other uses and consequences of his treatise, Collier thinks it furnishes an easy refutation of the Romish doctrine of transubstantiation. If there is no external world, the distinction between substance and accidents vanishes, and these become the sole essence of material objects, so that there is no room for any change whilst they remain as before. Sir William Hamilton thinks that the logically necessary advance from the old theory of representative perception to idealism was stayed by anxiety to save this miracle of the church; and he gives Collier credit for being the first to make the discovery.\n\nHis \"Clavis Universalis\" is interesting on account of the resemblance between its views and those of Berkeley. Both were moved by their dissatisfaction with the theory of representative perception. Both have the feeling that it is inconsistent with the common sense of mankind, which will insist that \"the very object perceived is the sole reality\". They equally affirm that \"the so-called representative image is the sole reality\", and \"discard as unthinkable the unperceiving material cause\" of the philosophers. Of objects of sense, they say, their \"esse is percipi\". But Collier never got beyond a bald assertion of the fact, while Berkeley addressed himself to an explanation of it. The thought of a distinction between direct and indirect perception never dawned upon Collier. To the question how all matter exists in dependence on percipient mind his only reply is, \"Just how my reader pleases, provided it be somehow\". As cause of our sensations and ground of our belief in externality, he substituted for an unintelligible material substance an equally unintelligible operation of divine power. His book exhibits no traces of a scientific development. The most that can be said about him is that he was an intelligent student of Descartes and Malebranche, and had the ability to apply the results of his reading to the facts of his experience. In philosophy he is a curiosity, and nothing more. His biographer attributes the comparative failure of the Clavis to its inferiority in point of style, but the crudeness of his thought had quite as much to do with his failure to gain a hearing. Hamilton (Discussions, p. 197) allows greater sagacity to Collier than to Berkeley, on the grounds that he did not vainly attempt to enlist man's natural belief against the hypothetical realism of the philosophers. But Collier did so as far as his light enabled him. He appealed to the popular conviction that the proper object of sense is the sole reality, although he despaired of getting men to give up their belief in its externality, and asserted that nothing but prejudice prevented them from doing so; and there is little doubt that, if it had ever occurred to him, as it did to Berkeley, to explain the genesis of the notion of externality, he would have been more hopeful of commending his theory to the popular mind.\n\nIn theology Collier was an adherent of the High Church party, though his views were by no means orthodox. In the Jacobite Mists Journal he attacked Bishop Hoadly's defence of sincere errors. His views on the problems of Arianism, and his attempt to reconcile it with orthodox theology, are contained in \"A Specimen of True Philosophy\" (1730, reprinted in Metaphysical Tracts, 1837) and \"Logology, or a Treatise on the Logos in Seven Sermons on John 1. 1, 2, 3, 14\" (1732, analysed in Metaph. Tracts). These may be compared with Berkeley's \"Sins\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20126369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20126369", "title": "Bertrand Russell's philosophical views", "text": "Bertrand Russell's philosophical views\n\nThe aspects of Bertrand Russell's views on philosophy cover the changing viewpoints of philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell (1872–1970), from his early writings in 1896 until his death in February 1970.\n\nRussell is generally credited with being one of the founders of analytic philosophy, but he also produced a body of work that covers logic, the philosophy of mathematics, metaphysics, ethics and epistemology, including his 1913 \"Theory of Knowledge\" and the related article he wrote for the 1926 edition of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", as well as writing popular and (then) controversial work on philosophy of religion for which he was, in part, awarded the Nobel Prize in 1950.\n\nBertrand Russell helped to develop what is now called \"Analytic Philosophy.\" Alongside G. E. Moore, Russell was shown to be partly responsible for the British revolt against idealism, a philosophy greatly influenced by G. W. F. Hegel and his British apostle, F. H. Bradley. This revolt was echoed 30 years later in Vienna by the logical positivists' \"revolt against metaphysics.\" Russell was particularly critical of a doctrine he ascribed to idealism and coherentism, which he dubbed the doctrine of internal relations; this, Russell suggested, held that to know any particular thing, we must know all of its relations. Russell argued that this would make space, time, science and the concept of number not fully intelligible. Russell's logical work with Whitehead continued this project.\n\nRussell and Moore were devoted to clarity in arguments by breaking down philosophical position into their simplest components. Russell, in particular, saw formal logic and science as the principal tools of the philosopher. Russell did not think we should have separate methods for philosophy. Russell thought philosophers should strive to answer the most general of propositions about the world and this would help eliminate confusions. In particular, he wanted to end what he saw as the excesses of metaphysics. Russell adopted William of Ockham's principle against multiplying unnecessary entities, Occam's Razor, as a central part of the method of analysis.\n\nRussell had great influence on modern mathematical logic. The American philosopher and logician Willard Quine said Russell's work represented the greatest influence on his own work.\n\nRussell's first mathematical book, \"An Essay on the Foundations of Geometry\", was published in 1897. This work was heavily influenced by Immanuel Kant. Russell later realised that the conception it laid out would make Albert Einstein's schema of space-time impossible. Thenceforth, he rejected the entire Kantian program as it related to mathematics and geometry, and rejected his own earliest work on the subject.\n\nInterested in the definition of number, Russell studied the work of George Boole, Georg Cantor, and Augustus De Morgan. Materials in the Bertrand Russell Archives at McMaster University include notes of his reading in algebraic logic by Charles Sanders Peirce and Ernst Schröder. In 1900 he attended the first International Congress of Philosophy in Paris, where he became familiar with the work of the Italian mathematician, Giuseppe Peano. He mastered Peano's new symbolism and his set of axioms for arithmetic. Peano defined logically all of the terms of these axioms with the exception of \"0\", \"number\", \"successor\", and the singular term, \"the\", which were the primitives of his system. Russell took it upon himself to find logical definitions for each of these. Between 1897 and 1903 he published several articles applying Peano's notation to the classical Boole-Schröder algebra of relations, among them \"On the Notion of Order\", \"Sur la logique des relations avec les applications à la théorie des séries\", and \"On Cardinal Numbers\". He became convinced that the foundations of mathematics could be derived within what has since come to be called higher-order logic which in turn he believed to include some form of unrestricted comprehension axiom.\n\nRussell then discovered that Gottlob Frege had independently arrived at equivalent definitions for \"0\", \"successor\", and \"number\", and the definition of number is now usually referred to as the Frege-Russell definition. Russell drew attention to Frege's priority in 1903, when he published \"The Principles of Mathematics\" (see below). The appendix to this work, however, described a paradox arising from Frege's application of second- and higher-order functions which took first-order functions as their arguments, and Russell offered his first effort to resolve what would henceforth come to be known as the Russell Paradox. Before writing \"Principles\", Russell became aware of Cantor's proof that there was no greatest cardinal number, which Russell believed was mistaken. The Cantor Paradox in turn was shown (for example by Crossley) to be a special case of the Russell Paradox. This caused Russell to analyse classes, for it was known that given any number of elements, the number of classes they result in is greater than their number. This in turn led to the discovery of a very interesting class, namely, the class of all classes. It contains two kinds of classes: those classes that contain themselves, and those that do not. Consideration of this class led him to find a fatal flaw in the so-called principle of comprehension, which had been taken for granted by logicians of the time. He showed that it resulted in a contradiction, whereby Y is a member of Y, if and only if, Y is not a member of Y. This has become known as Russell's paradox, the solution to which he outlined in an appendix to \"Principles\", and which he later developed into a complete theory, the theory of types. Aside from exposing a major inconsistency in naive set theory, Russell's work led directly to the creation of modern axiomatic set theory. It also crippled Frege's project of reducing arithmetic to logic. The Theory of Types and much of Russell's subsequent work have also found practical applications with computer science and information technology.\n\nRussell continued to defend logicism, the view that mathematics is in some important sense reducible to logic, and along with his former teacher, Alfred North Whitehead, wrote the monumental \"Principia Mathematica\", an axiomatic system on which all of mathematics can be built. The first volume of the \"Principia\" was published in 1910, and is largely ascribed to Russell. More than any other single work, it established the speciality of mathematical or symbolic logic. Two more volumes were published, but their original plan to incorporate geometry in a fourth volume was never realised, and Russell never felt up to improving the original works, though he referenced new developments and problems in his preface to the second edition. Upon completing the \"Principia\", three volumes of extraordinarily abstract and complex reasoning, Russell was exhausted, and he felt his intellectual faculties never fully recovered from the effort. Although the \"Principia\" did not fall prey to the paradoxes in Frege's approach, it was later proven by Kurt Gödel that neither \"Principia Mathematica\", nor any other consistent system of primitive recursive arithmetic, could, within that system, determine that every proposition that could be formulated within that system was decidable, i.e. could decide whether that proposition or its negation was provable within the system (See: Gödel's incompleteness theorem).\n\nRussell's last significant work in mathematics and logic, \"Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy\", was written while he was in jail for his anti-war activities during World War I. This was largely an explication of his previous work and its philosophical significance.\n\nRussell made language, or more specifically, \"how we use language\", a central part of philosophy, and this influenced Ludwig Wittgenstein, Gilbert Ryle, J. L. Austin, and P. F. Strawson, among others, who used many of the techniques that Russell originally developed. Russell, and GE Moore, argued that clarity of expression is a virtue.\n\nA significant contribution to philosophy of language is Russell's theory of descriptions, set out in \"On Denoting\" (\"Mind\", 1905). Frank P. Ramsey described this paper as \"a paradigm of philosophy.\" The theory considers the sentence \"The present King of France is bald\" and whether the proposition is false or meaningless. Frege had argued, employing his distinction between sense and reference, that such sentences were meaningful but neither true nor false. Russell argues that the grammatical form of the sentence disguises its underlying logical form. Russell's Theory of Definite Descriptions enables the sentence to be construed as meaningful but false, without commitment to the existence of any present King of France. This addresses a paradox of great antiquity (e.g. \"That which is not must in some sense be. Otherwise, how could we say of it that it is not?\" etc.), going back at least as far as Parmenides. In Russell's own time, Meinong held the view of that which is not being in some sense real; and Russell held this view prior to \"On Denoting\".\n\nThe problem is general to what are called \"definite descriptions.\" Normally this includes all terms beginning with \"the,\" and sometimes includes names, like \"Walter Scott.\" (This point is quite contentious: Russell sometimes thought that the latter terms shouldn't be called names at all, but only \"disguised definite descriptions,\" but much subsequent work has treated them as altogether different things.) What is the \"logical form\" of definite descriptions: how, in Frege's terms, could we paraphrase them to show how the truth of the whole depends on the truths of the parts? Definite descriptions appear to be like names that by their very nature denote exactly one thing, neither more nor less. What, then, are we to say about the proposition as a whole if one of its parts apparently isn't functioning correctly?\n\nRussell's solution was, first of all, to analyse not the term alone but the entire proposition that contained a definite description. \"The present king of France is bald,\" he then suggested, can be reworded to \"There is an x such that x is a present king of France, nothing other than x is a present king of France, and x is bald.\" Russell claimed that each definite description in fact contains a claim of existence and a claim of uniqueness which give this appearance, but these can be broken apart and treated separately from the predication that is the obvious content of the proposition. The proposition as a whole then says three things about some object: the definite description contains two of them, and the rest of the sentence contains the other. If the object does not exist, or if it is not unique, then the whole sentence turns out to be false, not meaningless.\n\nOne of the major complaints against Russell's theory, due originally to Strawson, is that definite descriptions do not claim that their object exists, they merely presuppose that it does.\n\nWittgenstein, Russell's student, achieved considerable prominence in the philosophy of language after the posthumous publication of the \"Philosophical Investigations\". In Russell's opinion, Wittgenstein's later work was misguided, and he decried its influence and that of its followers (especially members of the so-called \"Oxford school\" of ordinary language philosophy, who he believed were promoting a kind of mysticism). He wrote a foreword to Ernest Gellner's \"Words and Things\" which was a fierce attack on the Oxford School of Ordinary Language philosophy and Wittgenstein's later work and was supportive of Gellner in the subsequent academic dispute. However, Russell still held Wittgenstein and his early work in high regard, he thought of him as, \"perhaps the most perfect example I have ever known of genius as traditionally conceived, passionate, profound, intense, and dominating.\" Russell's belief that philosophy's task is not limited to examining ordinary language is once again widely accepted in philosophy.\n\nRussell explained his philosophy of logical atomism in a set of lectures, \"The Philosophy of Logical Atomism\", which he gave in 1918. In these lectures, Russell sets forth his concept of an ideal, isomorphic language, one that would mirror the world, whereby our knowledge can be reduced to terms of atomic propositions and their truth-functional compounds. Logical atomism is a form of radical empiricism, for Russell believed the most important requirement for such an ideal language is that every meaningful proposition must consist of terms referring directly to the objects with which we are acquainted, or that they are defined by other terms referring to objects with which we are acquainted. Russell excluded some formal, logical terms such as \"all\", \"the\", \"is\", and so forth, from his isomorphic requirement, but he was never entirely satisfied with our understanding of such terms. One of the central themes of Russell's atomism is that the world consists of logically independent facts, a plurality of facts, and that our knowledge depends on the data of our direct experience of them. In his later life, Russell came to doubt aspects of logical atomism, especially his principle of isomorphism, though he continued to believe that the process of philosophy ought to consist of breaking things down into their simplest components, even though we might not ever fully arrive at an ultimate atomic fact.\n\nRussell's epistemology went through many phases. Once he shed neo-Hegelianism in his early years, Russell remained a philosophical realist for the remainder of his life, believing that our direct experiences have primacy in the acquisition of knowledge. While some of his views have lost favour, his influence remains strong in the distinction between two ways in which we can be familiar with objects: \"knowledge by acquaintance\" and \"knowledge by description\". For a time, Russell thought that we could only be acquainted with our own sense data—momentary perceptions of colours, sounds, and the like—and that everything else, including the physical objects that these were sense data \"of\", could only be inferred, or reasoned to—i.e. known by description—and not known directly. This distinction has gained much wider application, though Russell eventually rejected the idea of an intermediate sense datum.\n\nIn his later philosophy, Russell subscribed to a kind of neutral monism, maintaining that the distinctions between the material and mental worlds, in the final analysis, were arbitrary, and that both can be reduced to a neutral property—a view similar to one held by the American philosopher/psychologist, William James, and one that was first formulated by Baruch Spinoza, whom Russell greatly admired. Instead of James' \"pure experience,\" however, Russell characterised the stuff of our initial states of perception as \"events,\" a stance which is curiously akin to his old teacher Whitehead's process philosophy.\n\nRussell claimed that he was more convinced of his \"method\" of doing philosophy than of his philosophical conclusions. Science was one of the principal components of analysis. Russell was a believer in the scientific method, that science reaches only tentative answers, that scientific progress is piecemeal, and attempts to find organic unities were largely futile. He believed the same was true of philosophy. Russell held that the ultimate objective of \"both\" science and philosophy was to \"understand\" reality, not simply to make predictions.\n\nRussell's work contributed to philosophy of science's development into a separate branch of philosophy. Much of Russell's thinking about science is expressed in his 1914 book, \"Our Knowledge of the External World as a Field for Scientific Method in Philosophy\", which influenced the logical positivists.\n\nRussell held that of the physical world we know only its abstract structure except for the intrinsic character of our own brain with which we have direct acquaintance (Russell, 1948). Russell said that he had always assumed copunctuality between percepts and non-percepts, and percepts were also part of the physical world, a part of which we knew its intrinsic character directly, knowledge which goes beyond structure. His views on science have become integrated into the contemporary debate in the philosophy of science as a form of Structural Realism, people such as Elie Zahar and Ioannis Votsis have discussed the implications of his work for our understanding of science. The seminal article \"The Concept of Structure in \"The Analysis of Matter\"\" by William Demopoulos and Michael Friedman was crucial in reintegrating Russell's views to the contemporary scene.\n\nRussell wrote several science books, including \"The ABC of Atoms\" (1923) and \"The ABC of Relativity\" (1925).\n\nWhile Russell wrote a great deal on ethical subject matters, he did not believe that the subject belonged to philosophy or that when he wrote on ethics that he did so in his capacity as a philosopher. In his earlier years, Russell was greatly influenced by G.E. Moore's \"Principia Ethica\". Along with Moore, he then believed that moral facts were objective, but known only through intuition; that they were simple properties of objects, not equivalent (e.g., pleasure is good) to the natural objects to which they are often ascribed (see Naturalistic fallacy); and that these simple, undefinable moral properties cannot be analysed using the non-moral properties with which they are associated. In time, however, he came to agree with his philosophical hero, David Hume, who believed that ethical terms dealt with subjective values that cannot be verified in the same way as matters of fact.\n\nCoupled with Russell's other doctrines, this influenced the logical positivists, who formulated the theory of emotivism or non-cognitivism, which states that ethical propositions (along with those of metaphysics) were essentially meaningless and nonsensical or, at best, little more than expressions of attitudes and preferences. Notwithstanding his influence on them, Russell himself did not construe ethical propositions as narrowly as the positivists, for he believed that ethical considerations are not only meaningful, but that they are a vital subject matter for civil discourse. Indeed, though Russell was often characterised as the patron saint of rationality, he agreed with Hume, who said that reason ought to be subordinate to ethical considerations.\n\nIn terms of his normative ethical beliefs, Russell considered himself a utilitarian early in his life.\n\nFor most of his adult life Russell maintained that religion is little more than superstition and, despite any positive effects that religion might have, it is largely harmful to people. He believed religion and the religious outlook (he considered communism and other systematic ideologies to be forms of religion) serve to impede knowledge, foster fear and dependency, and are responsible for much of the war, oppression, and misery that have beset the world.\n\nIn his 1949 speech, \"Am I an Atheist or an Agnostic?\", Russell expressed his difficulty over whether to call himself an atheist or an agnostic:\nHowever, in the 1948 BBC Radio Debate between Bertrand Russell and Frederick Copleston, Russell chose to assume the position of the agnostic, though it seems to have been because he admitted to not being able to prove the non-existence of God:\n\nThough he would later question God's existence, he fully accepted the ontological argument during his undergraduate years:\n\nThis quote has been used by many theologians over the years, such as by Louis Pojman in his \"Philosophy of Religion\", who wish for readers to believe that even a well-known atheist-philosopher supported this particular argument for God's existence. However, elsewhere in his autobiography, Russell also mentions:\nRussell made an influential analysis of the omphalos hypothesis enunciated by Philip Henry Gosse—that any argument suggesting that the world was created as if it were already in motion could just as easily make it a few minutes old as a few thousand years: \n\nAs a young man, Russell had a decidedly religious bent, himself, as is evident in his early Platonism. He longed for eternal truths, as he makes clear in his famous essay, \"A Free Man's Worship\", widely regarded as a masterpiece of prose, but a work that Russell came to dislike. While he rejected the supernatural, he freely admitted that he yearned for a deeper meaning to life.\n\nRussell's views on religion can be found in his book, \"Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects\". Its title essay was a talk given on 6 March 1927 at Battersea Town Hall, under the auspices of the South London Branch of the National Secular Society, UK, and published later that year as a pamphlet. The book also contains other essays in which Russell considers a number of logical arguments for the existence of God, including the first cause argument, the natural-law argument, the argument from design, and moral arguments. He also discusses specifics about Christian theology.\n\nHis conclusion:\nAs Nicholas Griffin points out in the introduction to \"The Cambridge Companion to Bertrand Russell\", Russell had a major influence on modern philosophy, especially in the English-speaking world. While others were also influential, notably Frege, Moore, and Wittgenstein, Russell made analysis the dominant methodology of professional philosophy. The various analytic movements throughout the last century all owe something to Russell's earlier works. Even Russell's biographer, the philosopher Ray Monk, no admirer of Russell's personal snobbery, characterised his work on the philosophy of mathematics as intense, august and incontestably great and acknowledged, in the preface to the second volume of his biography, that he is one of the indisputably great philosophers of the twentieth century.\n\nRussell's influence on individual philosophers is singular, especially in the case of Ludwig Wittgenstein, who was his student between 1911 and 1914.\n\nWittgenstein had an important influence on Russell as he himself discusses in his \"My Philosophical Development\". He led him, for example, to conclude, much to his regret, that mathematical truths were purely tautological truths, however it is doubtful that Wittgenstein actually held this view, which he discussed in relation to logical truth, since it is not clear that he was a logicist when he wrote the Tractatus. What is certain is that in 1901 Russell's own reflections on the issues raised by the paradox that takes his name Russell's paradox, led him to doubt the intuitive certainty of mathematics. This doubt was perhaps Russell's most important 'influence' on mathematics, and was spread throughout the European universities, even as Russell himself laboured (with Alfred North Whitehead) in an attempt to solve the Paradox and related paradoxes, such as Burali-Forti. As Stewart Shapiro explains in his \"Thinking About Mathematics\", Russell's attempts to solve the paradoxes led to the ramified theory of types, which, though it is highly complex and relies on the doubtful axiom of reducibility, actually manages to solve both syntactic and semantic paradoxes at the expense of rendering the logicist project suspect and introducing much complexity in the PM system. Philosopher and logician F.P. Ramsey would later simplify the theory of types arguing that there was no need to solve both semantic and syntactic paradoxes to provide a foundation for mathematics. The philosopher and logician George Boolos discusses the power of the PM system in the preface to his \"Logic, logic & logic\", stating that it is powerful enough to derive most classical mathematics, equating the power of PM to that of Z, a weaker form of set theory than ZFC (Zermelo-Fraenkel Set theory with Choice). In fact, ZFC actually does circumvent Russell's paradox by restricting the comprehension axiom to already existing sets by the use of subset axioms.\n\nRussell wrote (in \"Portraits from Memory\", 1956) of his reaction to Gödel's 'Theorems of Undecidability':\n\nEvidence of Russell's influence on Wittgenstein can be seen throughout the \"Tractatus\", which Russell was instrumental in having published. Russell also helped to secure Wittgenstein's doctorate and a faculty position at Cambridge, along with several fellowships along the way.\nHowever, as previously stated, he came to disagree with Wittgenstein's later linguistic and analytic approach to philosophy dismissing it as \"trivial\", while Wittgenstein came to think of Russell as \"superficial and glib\", particularly in his popular writings. However, Norman Malcolm tells us in his recollections of Wittgenstein that Wittgenstein showed a deference towards Russell such as he never saw him show towards any one, and even went so far as to reprimand students of his who criticised Russell. As Ray Monk relates in his biography of Wittgenstein, Wittgenstein used to say that Russell's books should be bound in two covers, those dealing with mathematical philosophy in blue, and every student of philosophy should read them, while those dealing with popular subjects should be bound in red and no one should be allowed to read them.\n\nRussell's influence is also evident in the work of Alfred J. Ayer, Rudolf Carnap, Alonzo Church, Kurt Gödel, David Kaplan, Saul Kripke, Karl Popper, W. V. Quine, John R. Searle, and a number of other philosophers and logicians.\n\nRussell often characterised his moral and political writings as lying outside the scope of philosophy, but Russell's admirers and detractors are often more acquainted with his pronouncements on social and political matters, or what some (e.g., biographer Ray Monk) have called his \"journalism,\" than they are with his technical, philosophical work. There is a marked tendency to conflate these matters, and to judge Russell the philosopher on what he himself would definitely consider to be his non-philosophical opinions. Russell often cautioned people to make this distinction. Beginning in the 1920s, Russell wrote frequently for \"The Nation\" on changing morals, disarmament and literature. In 1965, he wrote that the magazine \"...has been one of the few voices which has been heard on behalf of individual liberty and social justice consistently throughout its existence.\"\n\nRussell left a large assortment of writing. From his adolescent years, he wrote about 3,000 words a day, with relatively few corrections; his first draft nearly always was his last, even on the most complex, technical matters. His previously unpublished work is an immense treasure trove, and scholars continue to gain new insights into Russell's thought.\n\n\nThis is a selected bibliography of Russell's books in English sorted by year of first publication.\n\nRussell also wrote many pamphlets, introductions, articles and letters to the editor. His works can be found in \"The Collected Papers of Bertrand Russell\", an anthology which McMaster University began publishing in 1983. The Russell Archives at McMaster University also has more than 30,000 letters that he wrote.\n\n\n\n\n\nWorks about Bertrand Russell's philosophy\n\nPhilosophical Works by Bertrand Russell\n\nAudio files\n\nOther\n"}
{"id": "59180201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59180201", "title": "Centre for Applied Philosophy, Politics and Ethics", "text": "Centre for Applied Philosophy, Politics and Ethics\n\nThe Centre for Applied Philosophy, Politics and Ethics (CAPPE) is a research center at the University of Brighton.\nThe Centre is under the directorship of Bob Brecher and Mark Devenney. It \"researches the links between philosophy, critical theory, global ethics, other disciplines and the wider public.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "487208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487208", "title": "Christian August Brandis", "text": "Christian August Brandis\n\nChristian August Brandis (February 13, 1790July 21, 1867) was a German philologist and historian of philosophy.\n\nBrandis was born at Hildesheim, and was the son of the physician Joachim Dietrich Brandis. His father moved to Copenhagen in 1810, where he became personal physician to Queen Marie.\n\nHe was educated at Kiel University. In 1812 he graduated at Copenhagen, with a thesis \"Commentationes Eleaticae\" (a collection of fragments from Xenophanes, Parmenides and Melissus). For a time he studied at Göttingen, and in 1815 presented as his inaugural dissertation at Berlin his essay \"Von dem Begriff der Geschichte der Philosophie\".\n\nIn 1816 he refused an extraordinary professorship at Heidelberg in order to accompany BG Niebuhr to Italy as secretary to the Prussian embassy. Subsequently, he assisted Immanuel Bekker in the preparation of his edition of Aristotle. In 1821 he became professor of philosophy in the newly founded University of Bonn, and in 1823 published his \"Aristotelius et Theophrasti Metaphysica\". With Böckh and Niebuhr he edited the \"Rheinisches Museum\", to which he contributed important articles on Socrates (1827, 1829). From 1836 to 1839 he was tutor to the young King Otho of Greece. Brandis was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1839.\n\nHis great work, the \"Handbuch der Geschichte der Griechisch-Römischen Philosophie\" (1835-1866; republished in a smaller and more systematic form, \"Geschichte der Entwicklungen der griechischen Philosophie und ihrer Nachwirkungen im römischen Reiche\", 1862-1866), is characterized by sound criticism.\n\nBrandis died on July 21, 1867, in Bonn, Germany.\n\nHe was the father of the forestry academic and administrator Sir Dietrich Brandis.\n"}
{"id": "5708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5708", "title": "Collectivism", "text": "Collectivism\n\nCollectivism is a cultural value that is characterized by emphasis on cohesiveness among individuals and prioritization of the group over self. Individuals or groups that subscribe to a collectivistic worldview tend to find common values and goals as particularly salient and demonstrate greater orientation toward in-group than toward out-group. The term “in-group” is thought to be more diffusely defined for collectivistic individuals to include societal units ranging from the nuclear family to a religious or racial/ethnic group. Meta-analytic findings support that collectivism shows a consistent association with discrete values, interpersonal patterns of interaction, cognition, perception and self-construal. Collectivism is often discussed alongside the cultural value of individualism, but these are two distinct concepts and are not considered to be opposites.\n\nThe German sociologist Tönnies described an early model of collectivism and individualism using the terms \"Gemeinschaft\" (community) and \"Gesellschaft\" (society). \"Gemeinschaft\" relationships, in which communalism is prioritized, were thought to be characteristic of small, rural village communities. An anthropologist, Redfield (1941) echoed this notion in work contrasting folk society with urban society.\n\nMax Weber (1930) contrasted collectivism and individualism through the lens of religion, believing that Protestants were more individualistic and self-reliant compared to Catholics, who endorsed hierarchical, interdependent relationships among people.\n\nHofstede (1980) was highly influential in ushering in an era of cross-cultural research making comparisons along the dimension of collectivism versus individualism. Hofstede conceptualized collectivism and individualism as part of a single continuum, with each cultural construct representing an opposite pole. The author characterized individuals that endorsed a high degree of collectivism as being embedded in their social contexts and prioritizing communal goals over individual goals. The notion that collectivism-individualism is unidimensional has been challenged by contemporary theorists.\n\nCollectivism was an important part of Marxist–Leninist ideology in the Soviet Union, where it played a key part in forming the New Soviet man, willingly sacrificing his or her life for the good of the collective. Terms such as \"collective\" and \"the masses\" were frequently used in the official language and praised in agitprop literature, for example by Vladimir Mayakovsky (\"Who needs a \"1\"\") and Bertolt Brecht (The Decision, Man Equals Man).\n\nThe construct of collectivism is represented in empirical literature under several different names. Most commonly, the term interdependent self-construal is used. Other phrases used to describe the concept of collectivism-individualism include allocentrism-idiocentrism, collective-private self, as well as subtypes of collectivism-individualism (meaning, vertical and horizontal subtypes). Inconsistent terminology is thought to account for some of the difficulty in effectively synthesizing the empirical literature on collectivism.\n\nTypically, collectivism is measured via self-report questionnaire. Meta-analytic findings suggest that there are six instruments that have been used to measure collectivism (and the related construct of individualism) in a manner that best reflects current theoretical thinking.\n\nIn one critical model of collectivism, Markus and Kitayama describe the interdependent (i.e., collectivistic) self as fundamentally connected to the social context. As such, one's sense of self depends on and is defined in part by those around them and is primarily manifested in public, overt behavior. As such, the organization of the self is guided by using others as a reference. That is, an interdependent individual uses the unexpressed thoughts, feelings, and beliefs of another person with whom they have a relationship with, as well as the other person's behaviors, to make decisions about their own internal attributes and actions.\n\nMarkus and Kitayama also contributed to the literature by challenging Hofstede's unidimensional model of collectivism-individualism. The authors conceptualized these two constructs bidimensionally, such that both collectivism and individualism can be endorsed independently and potentially to the same degree. This notion has been echoed by other prominent theorists in the field.\n\nSome researchers have expanded the collectivism-individualism framework to include a more comprehensive view. Specifically, Triandis and colleagues introduced a theoretical model in which incorporates the notion of relational contexts. The authors argues that the domains of collectivism and individualism can be further described by horizontal and vertical relationships. Horizontal relationships are believed to be status-equal whereas vertical relationships are characterized as hierarchical and status-unequal. As such, horizontal collectivism is manifested as an orientation in which group harmony is highly valued and in-group members are perceived to experience equal standing. Vertical collectivism involves the prioritization of group goals over individual goals, implying a hierarchical positioning of the self in relation to the overarching in-group. The horizontal-vertical individualism-collectivism model has received empirical support and has been used to explore patterns within cultures.\n\nOriginated by W. E. B. DuBois, some researchers have adopted a historical perspective on the emergence of collectivism among some cultural groups. DuBois and others argued that oppressed minority groups contend with internal division, meaning that the development of self-identity for individuals from these groups involves the integration of one's own perceptions of their group as well as typically negative, societal views of their group. This division is thought to impact goal formation such that people from marginalized groups tend to emphasize collectivistic over individualistic values.\n\nSome organizational research has found different variations of collectivism. These include institutional collectivism and in-group collectivism. Institutional collectivism is the idea that a work environment creates a sense of collectivist nature due to similar statuses and similar rewards, such as earning the same salary. In-group collectivism is the idea that an individual's chosen group of people, such as family or friend groups, create a sense of collectivist nature. In-group collectivism can be referred to as family collectivism.\n\nA number of classic studies have demonstrated that there is a relationship between collectivism and cognition. These studies support the notion that people from collectivistic cultures tend to demonstrate a holistic cognitive style, which is reflected in processes such as memory, visual perception, attributional style, and categorization schemas. This effect has been replicated extensively by independent research groups, supporting its robustness.\n\n\nAn individual's self-concept can be fundamentally shaped by cultural values. Such processes typically begin in childhood and adolescence and parents are often one of the first critical inputs that shape a child's sense of self-concept. Parents with more collectivistic world views have been shown to speak and interact with their children in a manner that conveys the core tenets of collectivism, such as emphasis on the relationships between objects and interpersonal connections. As such, youth who are parented in this manner tend to develop a sense of self that is defined in relation to others. This sense of self also has been found to be reflected in patterns of structural and functional connectivity in the brain. For example, generally the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) is more active when adults think about themselves compared to when they think about someone else. However, for adults who endorse collectivism, the MPFC actually shows greater response when they think about themselves in the context of their close relationships.\n\nCultural views are believed to have a reciprocal relationship with macro-level processes such as economics, social change, and politics. The collectivism-individualism dimension of culture influences economic development: collectivistic culture theoretically promotes growth. For instance, the influence of the collectivist dimension of culture can be observed among the European Union economies: countries which societies are less individualistic record faster economic development, at the expense of individual liberty. Societal changes in China exemplifies this well. Beginning in the early 1980s, China experienced dramatic expansion of economic and social structures, resulting in greater income inequality between families, less involvement of the government in social welfare programs, and increased competition for employment. Corresponding with these changes was a shift in ideology among Chinese citizens, especially among those who were younger, away from collectivism (the prevailing cultural ideology) toward individualism. China also saw this shift reflected in educational policies, such that teachers were encouraged to promote the development of their students’ individual opinions and self-efficacy, which prior to the aforementioned economic changes, was not emphasized in Chinese culture.\n\nAttempts to study the association of collectivism and political views and behaviors has largely occurred at the aggregate national level. However, more isolated political movements have also adopted a collectivistic framework. For example, Collectivist anarchism (also known as anarcho-collectivism) is a revolutionary anarchist doctrine that advocates the abolition of both the state and private ownership of the means of production. It instead envisions the means of production being owned collectively and controlled and managed by the producers themselves.\n"}
{"id": "7159198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7159198", "title": "Compensationism", "text": "Compensationism\n\nCompensationism is one of several theological doctrines, opposed to Probabilism.\n\nCompensationism maintains that a doubtful law is not devoid of all binding force, and that there must be a compensating reason, proportionate to the probability and gravity of the law, to justify the performance of the action which is probably forbidden. This teaching is based on an analogy with an act which has two effects, one good and the other bad. It is not lawful to perform such an act unless there is a justifying cause proportionate to the evil. In the case of a doubtful law the bad effect is the danger of material sin, and the good effect is the benefit, which arises from the performance of the action which is probably forbidden. Hence in this as in the former case, a compensating cause, proportionate to the probable evil, is required to justify the performance of the action.\n\nProbabilists reply that this moral system leads to Tutiorism, because it implies that if no compensating benefit exists, it is not lawful to perform an action so long as it certainly is not forbidden. Again, Probabilists say that the preservation of liberty is of itself a sufficient compensating reason when there is question of a law which is not certain. Finally, Probabilists are prepared to admit that, as a point of expediency though not of obligation, it is advisable to look for a compensating cause over and above the preservation of liberty when a confessor is directing penitents in the use of probable opinions. If no such compensating reason exists, the penitent can be advised, though not under pain of sin, to abstain from the performance of the action which is probably forbidden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6154833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6154833", "title": "Dariush Ashoori", "text": "Dariush Ashoori\n\nDaryoush Ashouri (, born August 2, 1938 in Tehran) is a prominent Iranian thinker, author, translator, researcher, and public intellectual. He lives in Paris, France.\n\nHe studied at the Faculty of Law, Political Sciences and Economics of the University of Tehran, and has been visiting professor of Persian language and literature at Tokyo University of Foreign Studies. Ashoori taught at the Oriental Institute of the University of Oxford, and lectured on political philosophy and political sociology at the University of Tehran. From 1970 to 1978 Ashoori was a member of the second Academy of Persian Language.\n\nAshoori has worked extensively as an author, essayist, translator, literary interpreter, encyclopedist, and lexicologist. His intellectual interests cover a wide interdisciplinary range, including political sciences, literature, philosophy and linguistics. His main domain of intellectual focus is the cultural and linguistic matters of his native country, Iran, as a Third World country encountering modernity.\n\nHe has made vast contributions to the development of the Persian vocabulary and terminology in the domains of human sciences and philosophy by coining new words and modifying existing ones. His works in this domain are compiled in his Farhang-e 'olum-e ensāni (A Dictionary of Human Sciences). Among his major works stands a hermeneutical, intertextual study of the Divan of Hafez (Erfān o rendi dar she'r-e Hafez) which introduces a new approach to the understanding of the great classical poet. As translator, he has translated numerous classical literary and philosophical works by Nietzsche, Machiavelli, Shakespeare and others into Persian.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16275952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16275952", "title": "David H. M. Brooks", "text": "David H. M. Brooks\n\nDavid Havard Macleod Brooks (6 February 1950 – 27 October 1996) was a South African philosopher and professor of philosophy at the University of Cape Town.\n\nHe went to Cordwalles Preparatory School in Pietermaritzburg (68-70) where his father, Ronald Charles Brooks, was headmaster. He then went to Michaelhouse (64-67) and on to university in Pietermaritzburg. His second degree was his MA at Emmanuel College, Cambridge and his doctorate was from the University of Cape Town.\n\nBrooks was born in Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal. He is the author of \"The Unity of Mind\", published by Macmillan in 1994 and also the author of papers on philosophical aspects of biology and on the special wrongness which characterises racial discrimination, \"On living in an Unjust Society\" published in the \"Journal of Applied Philosophy\", and subsequently anthologized in a collection entitled \"Social Ethics\"; and on human rights in South Africa. He died in Cape Town on 27 October 1996.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45507892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45507892", "title": "Drexel 4180–4185", "text": "Drexel 4180–4185\n\nDrexel 4180–4185 is a set of six manuscript partbooks copied in Gloucester, England, containing primarily vocal music dating from approximately 1615-1625. Considered one of the most important sources for seventeenth century English secular song, the repertoire included represents a mixture of sacred and secular music, attesting to the partbooks' use for entertainment and pleasure, rather than for liturgical use.\n\nWhen rebound in 1950, it was discovered that the pastedown endpapers from the original bindings had been created from 16th century English music manuscripts. These fragments have become an additional source of study.\n\nBelonging to the New York Public Library, the partbooks are part of the Music Division's Drexel Collection, located at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. Following traditional library practice, their name is derived from their call numbers.\n\nAlthough it is known that John Merro copied the manuscript known today as Drexel 4180–4185, little biographical information about him has surfaced. First mentioned in a passing reference in 1609, it is known that he was a singer at Gloucester Cathedral. Based on inscriptions in the two manuscripts in the British and Bodleian libraries, Pamela Willetts observed that Merro had an interest in theology. Other references identify him as witness to the will of Ann Tomkins (wife of Thomas Tomkins, step-mother of famed composer also named Thomas Tomkins, and mother of John, Robert and Giles) as well as having taught viol to children. (He is probably not the John Merro who married Elizabeth Hiam on April 26, 1627.) Merro's will is dated December 10, 1638 giving bequests to various family members. He died March 23, 1639 with his will going into effect on April 20, 1639. The will of his wife Elizabeth is dated September 9, 1645. In addition to giving bequests, she asked that she be buried next to her husband in the Cathedral. She died November 13, 1645 and her will was enacted in December of that year.\n\nThree manuscripts can be identified as coming from Merro's hand: \n\nDrexel 4180–4185 is the largest of the three collections and has the most diverse repertory. Based on its contents, Monson estimated the date of Drexel 4180–4185 to be between 1615 and 1625, making it the earliest of the three manuscripts attributed to Merro. Both Add. 17792-6 and D 245-7 contain of inscriptions by Merro indicating the manuscripts belonged to him. Such an indication is lacking in Drexel 4180–4185 suggesting that the partbooks were not part of Merro's personal collection but used by the cathedral, \"made for informal use of choirmen and their friends.\" However, they are not listed on the Gloucester Cathedral's inventory, indicating either that they were not part of that collection, or were removed before the inventory was made.\n\nDavid Fallows hypothesized that the partbooks might have been the possession of Gloucester organists. At the cathedral it was the organist's responsibility to copy music for use by the choir. Merro, who received an annual salary, might have been commissioned to do the copying because of his legible hand, though not necessarily in an official capacity. Unfortunately he was not accurate as many errors exists in the partbooks.\n\nThe original covers to the partbooks were lost when the volumes were rebound in 1950. However, Rimbault, who printed some of the works in his \"A Collection of Anthems for Voices and Instruments by Composers of the Madrigalian Era\", included the following note observing the now-lost bindings in that volume's preface:\n\nThis valuable set of ancient Part-books consists of six small oblong volumes in the original binding, and with the Arms and Badge of Edward the Sixth stamped on the sides … The writing commences in the reign of Edward the Sixth, and ends in that of Charles the First, the last composition entered being an Ode composed by Orlando Gibbons for the marriage of that king with the princess Henrietta Maria.\n\nEven without seeing the covers Ashbee noted several obvious errors in Rimbault's account. Rimbault said the final work is an ode composed by Gibbons, but Ashbee noted it is a fantasia. Ashbee notes that the coat-of-arms could not have been that of Edward VI, although it suggests one from Gloucester, as well as ownership subsequent to that of Merro.\n\nAlthough Monson suggested the dates of 1615-1630, Fallows felt the earliest part of the span is the more correct. Based on his study of the paste-down flyleaves, he felt that the collection was bound no later than 1620 in Oxford. Ashbee suggests dates of 1615-1625 and agrees that the earliest dates are more likely.\n\nThe physical layout of music resembles that manuscripts Christ Church MSS 984-8 (The Dow Partbooks) and British Museum Add. 22597. This might have been a conscious decision on Merro's part to acknowledge the music's historic nature by maintaining the appearance of an archaic manuscript. In the cantus partbook (Drexel 4180), this archaic style can be seen on folios 1-16v, 18v-38v, 40-43, 54v-57 and 64v-68. To Monson this represents the oldest layer of the partbooks.\n\nMonson notes that the group of madrigals by Tomkins (leaves 124v-138) apparently come from Tomkin's 1622 publication. The inclusion of Byrd's \"O Lord make thy servant James\" indicates it was entered before 1625. Thus Drexel 4180 suggests dating of 1622-25 for its final entries.\n\nThe date when Merro began the collection is more difficult to determine. The publication of Amner's \"Sacred Hymns\" suggests a date no earlier than 1615. Although Brett thought Merro might have begun copying his collection around 1600, 1615 is the more likely date for when the collection was begun.\n\nPossibly once having been in the possession of its copyist, John Merro, the whereabouts of the partbooks is unknown until the 19th century. Philip Brett mentions annotations he attributed to Matthew Hutton, but Monson believed Brett was mistaken, for the only annotations appear to be by a contemporary librarian. The first indication of the partbooks comes from a nineteenth-century owner and musicologist Edward F. Rimbault. From whom he obtained the partbooks is revealed by the title of the publication in which he printed a few of the selections: \"A Collection of Anthems for Voices and Instruments by Composers of the Madrigalian Era Scored From a Set of Ancient M.S. Part Books Formerly in the Evelyn Collection\". The opening line of Rimbault's preface reads:\n\nThe following collection of anthems by Este, Forde, Weelkes, and Bateson, have been scored from a manuscript set of part-books formerly in the possession of the celebrated John\nEvelyn, and now forming one of the many musical rarities in the library of the Editor.\n\nDespite Rimbault's acknowledgement of John Evelyn in the title and in the first line of the preface, Monson and Ashbee had problems with Rimbault's account, possibly because of the previously mentioned errors. Monson observed Rimbault said that the books were \"formerly in the possession of the celebrated John Evelyn.\" Yet they didn't appear in Evelyn's own manuscript catalog nor do they carry Evelyn's ownership mark. Ashbee admits the possibilities that the partbooks might have been given away prior to the creation of Evelyn's catalog, but noted that no mention of Evelyn is in the auction catalog of Rimbault's library.\n\nSince Merro was living in Gloucester, Fallows hypothesized that the partbooks were probably acquired by Edward F. Rimbault from someone living in that region. He views John Stafford Smith as the likely candidate since his father, Martin Smith, was organist at Gloucester Cathedral from 1739 to 1781. Ashbee notes that after his death, Smith's library was sold piecemeal which would have simplified acquisition. (Rimbault acquired other works from Smith, such as Drexel 4175.)\n\nAfter Rimbault's death in 1876, the partbooks were sold as part of his estate. They were one of about 600 lots purchased by Philadelphia-born financier Joseph W. Drexel (through his agent Joseph Sabin), who had already amassed a large music library. Upon Drexel's death, he bequeathed his music library to The Lenox Library. When the Lenox Library merged with the Astor Library to become the New York Public Library, the Drexel Collection became the basis for one of its founding units, the Music Division. Today, Drexel 4180–4185 is part of the Drexel Collection in the Music Division, now located at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center.\n\nMonson notes that while some of Merro's scribal characteristics remain consistent through the six partbooks (the writing of treble, bass and c-clefs), other details differ both in music and in text underlay and the way in which they are written. For music, he ranges from the more old-fashioned square notation to the more contemporary use of rounded noteheads. In writing of text, his handwriting ranges from a stiff secretarial hand to a florid italic. The square music notation combined with the secretarial hand of text appears mostly in older works, the four- and five-part sacred works by Tallis and his generation. Monson remarks on the appropriateness of such notation applying to an older generation of Elizabethan composers. He notes that works by Byrd included in the collection appear to be written in a more archaic style, describing it as \"a gesture towards decorum in penmanship and towards a historical sense which he [Merro] seems to possess.\"\n\nIn the last hundred leaves Monson observes a preponderance of rounded notation and less use of the secretarial script. This is most obvious in the annotations of \"5 voc\" and \"6 voc.\" Monson believes these to be the \"latest layer\" in Drexel 4180–4185. Based on the last few vocal entries, Monson suggests they may have been completed in conjunction with work commencing on Merro's next work, Add. 17792.\n\nDespite variances, Monson felt that Merro was the sole copyist of the six partbooks and that the changes are due to his writing the books over the course of a dozen years.\n\nBoth Willetts and Ashbee noted many errors in Merro's musical text.\n\nMonson hypothesized that Merro's intention was compiling a collection of serious vocal music. He based this conjecture on the presence of more than 70 full anthems in four and five parts, quite a large number. Of the modern entries (aside from those written by local composers), most are composed by John Amner and Thomas Tomkins whose style relates more to the older composers (such as Thomas Tallis and John Mundy) than of contemporaneous ones (such as Michael East). Monson deduces that Merro's curation can be seen as an act of preservation since the repertory he favored was quickly falling out of favor.\n\nAfter the consort song, the English madrigal is the next most prominent genre. Rather than distributing the madrigals throughout the collection, Merro groups them together, selecting what are known as the most popular and most serious, whose sources are from four publications:\n\n\nMonson observed the large number of works by Tomkins and suggests the reason could be due to the proximity of Worcester (where Tomkins was organist) to Gloucester (where Merro resided). Acknowledging the popularity of Weelkes and Wilbye, Monson was struck by the lack of any works by Thomas Morley in Merro's collection. This suggested to Monson that the composer's popularity was only temporary and was quickly forgotten. There are also no works by Orlando Gibbons—unusual considering the 1612 publication of his \"The first set of madrigals and mottets of 5 parts, apt for viols and voyces\". (According to Monson, \"virtually all scribes\" similarly ignored Gibbons's works.)\n\nMonson observed a significant number of Italian madrigals with English texts: 11 works from \"Musical Transalpina\" (1588), 6 from \"Italian Madrigals Englished\" (1590), and 2 from \"Musical Transalpina II\" (1597). Luca Marenzio is the most popular of Italian composers represented by ten compositions, followed by the inclusion of four by Ferrabosco. The first Italian madrigal to be entered is by William Byrd, followed by Marenzio's \"Every singing byrd\" (which Monson hypothesized might be a tribute to the composer William Byrd). All remaining Italian madrigals are without text except for their titles, an attribute to be found in other English manuscripts of the time. Monson attributed this lack of Italian texts to the inability to handle the language. He noted that in some cases works are included without their titles (such as on folios 62v-64v), presumably as they were intended for viols rather than voices. The inclusion of works such as those by Hassler suggests that Merro's interest in the madrigal extended to more unusual examples than those of copyists of similar English manuscripts, even though he was apparently not concerned with preserving the integrity of the works as madrigals.\n\nBeginning at 139v Merro added another section of Italian works, this time including works for up to eight voices. Monson hypothesized that Merro must have had access to the three volumes of \"Gemmae Musicalis\" (published in 1588, 1589, and 1590) which would be the explanation for inclusions of the works on leaves 139v-149r. The two isolated Italian madrigals, \"Dolorosi martir\" by Marenzio and Tutt'eri foco by Pallavicino were apparently entered as afterthoughts on what were blank leaves.\n\nFor the Latin motets, Merro focused on Englishmen of the generation of Tallis (died 1585), Shepherd (active in the 1550s) and Mundy (died 1591). Merro copied these motets at a time when the composers had been dead for several decades which can explain why many are listed anonymously or have incorrect attributions. Monson claimed that the motets by Lassus and Clemens non Papa were late additions. That they appear with no text save for their titles provided Monson with the evidence of Merro's \"strangely insular attitude toward foreign composers in whatever language their works may appear.\"\n\nMusic for voices and viols play only minor importance in the partbooks which could be taken as a sign of the difference between musical life in urban London (where the consort song has greater prevalence in existing sources) and that in provincial Gloucester. The most significant composer of the consort song in the collection is Byrd; the collection contains 4 works from published sources as well as two unpublished songs. The two unpublished songs by Byrd are\"Come pretty babe\" (the manuscript contains an attribution to Byrd) and \"Delight is dead.\" Of the three consort songs (\"Abradad,\" \"Farewell the bliss\" and \"Come, Charon, come\"), the latter two have no composer attributions. Viewed as a whole, Merro's solo consort song repertory appears retrospective and antiquated (Monson calls it \"ancient\"). The partbooks contain no evidence of newer compositional approaches such as the lute ayre.\nIn the works copied for viols with solo and chorus, there is evidence of Merro's bending toward contemporary taste, most conspicuously in the works by John Amner. Two works by Michael East, \"When Israel came out of Egypt\" and \"Sing we merrily\" are not copied from the printed editions (which appeared in 1610 and 1624 respectively) but from earlier manuscript versions in secular sources. These two verse anthems in addition to \"Rise O my soul\" (Monson added \"perhaps the most popular Jacobean verse anthem to appear in secular sources\") are the only verse anthems taken from manuscript sources to appear in Drexel 4180–4185.\n\nAnother sign of contemporary taste is the inclusion of works containing street cries: \"The country cry\" by Richard Dering, \"The London cry\" by Orlando Gibbons and the anonymous \"The Cry of London.\" Merro's version of Gibbons's \"The London cry\" differs from the one printed roughly contemporaneously in Thomas Myriell's \"Tristitiae Remedium\" (1615). In Drexel 4180 as well as Add. 29427, the two sections are in reverse. This is rectified in two later manuscripts, Add. 29372-7 and Add. 17792-6 (the latter manuscript also copied by Merro).\n\nMerro's version of Gibbons' \"The London cry\" is of interest. Though text underlay of these cry works were subject to variation, Merro's copy in Drexel 4180 is particularly extensive and occasionally explicit. An example concerns the depiction of a horse. Whereas one source gives a line as \"She hath but on eye, and that is almost out, with a hole in he ear and a slit in her nose\"; Add. 37402-6 has it as \"...and a hole in her hip or there about.\" Merro's version in Drexel 4180–4185 reads: \"She hath but on eye, and that is almost out, and a hole in her arse and there your snout.\" The explicit lines in Merro's version of Gibbons's popular work suggest a counterbalance to the conservative taste otherwise derived from the selection of works.\n\nMost of Merro's choices eschew interest in London or the court and reflect local and provincial taste. The exception is Gibbons's \"Do not repine fair sun\" which was written for the visit of James I to Scotland in 1617. Monson was perplexed as to how a work so closely connected with the court could find its way into Merro's collection. Although Monson suggested that Joseph Hall (1574-1656), a well-traveled clerk might have been the source, he was reluctant to accept the connection.\n\nAs Merro worked for Gloucester Cathedral, it is not surprising to find works in Drexel 4180–4185 by composers active in the same vicinity. Those composers associated with a place in the manuscript are all from the West of England:\n\nExcept for Richard Nicholson, the more obscure composers are west countrymen and appear in other sources stemming from that region.\n\nAshbee surmised that the repertoire of Drexel 4180–4185 was not dictated by Merro but rather the availability of sources by those performing it. The recreational nature of the collection is confirmed by the inclusion of non-liturgical works.\n\nMonson strove to understand the manuscript's grouping by looking at its structure and creation. The collection begins with four-part works (on leaves 1r through 23r), while five-part works begin on 23v with Byrd's \"O God, give ear,\" \"one of the most famous of all consort songs.\" Monson believed that both the four-part and five-part sections were begun at the same time. Monson guessed that the section beginning on 54v (opening with Byrd's \"Lullaby\") might have been intended as the start of another section containing consort songs., and that Merro began these three sections at the same time. A fourth section (containing full anthems for five to eight voices) was begun on 64v.\n\nEach of these sections was preceded by a few blank pages. Based on the blank page before 40r, Monson hypothesized that Merro planned a section of five-part madrigals. This explains the blank pages leading up to the next section containing Palestrina's Vergine cycle on page 40r.\n\nBeginning on 158v of 4180 (\"O sing unto the Lord\" by Amner) is a final group of full anthems, haphazard mixture of five- to twelve-parts. (It is also present in Add. 17792, although in that manuscript Merro maintained section division by a5, a6 and a7.) Merro was constrained by the organization of Drexel 4180–4185, so when he came up to William Randall's 6-part \"Give sentence with me,\" he could not enter it after 167v so he went back and inserted it on half of 122v. The same situation occurred with Thomas Ford's 5-part \"Let God arise\" backtracking to enter it beginning on 123v. Thus the Randall and Ford works form the demarcation of madrigals by Weelkes (prior to 122v) and Tomkins (following on 125v).\n\nLater insertions such as those by Randall and Ford were the clues to Monson that aided in his dating of the partbooks. He notes that the group of madrigals by Tomkins on folios 124v through 138r come from the published collection \"Songs of 3. 4. 5. & 6. parts\". Monson makes note of Thomas Bateson's seven-part \"Holy Lord God almighty,\" his only extant sacred work.\n\n\nWhen the partbooks were rebound in 1950, it was discovered that the pastedown endpapers were made from discarded music manuscripts from the sixteenth century. Rather than be cross at the willful destruction of such leaves embedded in old bindings, Fallows asserted that we should be thankful to the collectors who sought to decorate their books using these otherwise discarded fragments. Being that there are six partbooks, there should have been twelve pastedowns (two for each volume, one each for the front and back endpapers), but only nine were found. These were first documented by John Stevens (who said that they were brought to his attention by Thurston Dart). Of these nine fragments (some of which contain more than one composition), Stevens counted fifteen separate works, four which appear in the British Library manuscript Add. 5465, the \"Fayrfax manuscript\" (F19, F24, F37, F40), and one (\"The bella, the bella\") with the 1530 publication \"XX Songes\". Two of the numbers from the Fayrfax manuscript (F19 & F24) correspond to 2 sides of a leaf fragment in the Fitzwilliam Museum. Also, John Heywood's name can be linked indirectly with songs nos. 2 and 5.\n\nAfter Stevens' brief 1961 study there was no substantive examination of the fragments until 1993 when David Fallows published his study. Fallows takes his point of departure the song \"Somewhat musyng.\" This fragment, designated \"A3\" by Fallows, is discernible on the back pastedown of Drexel 4185. Fallows recognized that fragment is the bottom half of a leaf now in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Music MS 1005. This song has two complete manuscript copies, both in sources which are considered among the main sources of early Tudor song, British Library Add. 5465 known as the \"Fayrfax Manuscript\" and the Henry VIII Manuscript, British Library Add. 31922. Writers have considered it one of the most widely distributed Tudor songs, appearing in three sources. \n\nThe binding of the Drexel partbooks was replaced by the library in 1950, strongly suggesting that the original binding was in poor shape. Based on the pattern of the original binder, Fallows hypothesized that the Fitzwilliam Museum fragment was originally in the front endpaper of Drexel 4185. Fallows notes that the original choirbook source for the fragments was 29 x 21 cm. and that, when folded, nearly matches the size of the Drexel fragment, save for a 2 millimeter sliver. Fallows hypothesized that a fragment in Cleveland might have been also been part of the same leaf from which the Drexel and Fitzwilliam fragments once belonged to. \n\nAlthough the original binding was lost when NYPL rebound the partbooks in 1950, some information can be ascertained based on the Bodleian fragments. These fragments come from the binding of the works of Gervase Babington published in 1615. The copy in the Bodleian Library was enumerated in Thomas James's 1620 catalog of the Bodleian Library. The Bodleian Day Book for 1613-1620, a log of daily happenings at the library, recorded that it was sent to the binder John Adams on October 2, 1615, confirmed by the type of binding used from 1615 on. The related fragment stem from a book published in 1611. J.B. Oldham identified the binder as Francis Peerse, the binder at the Bodleian Library from 1613 until his death in 1622. Though Monson estimated the date of the partbooks at about 1615 through 1630, Fallows drew the conclusion that the partbooks were bound in Oxford no later than 1620. (This does not preclude that musical works were copied into the books after they had been bound.) Fallows mentions that although using fragments in bindings ceased in London around 1540 and in Cambridge around 1570, it remained the custom in Oxford until around 1620.\n\nWhereas fragment A3 is in oblong format, fragment B is in upright format, suggesting that the two fragments come from different manuscripts. Fragment B contains parts of two songs, both of which are in the Fayrfax manuscript. The second one contains the opening line from Davy's \"A blessid Jhesu\" (Fayrfax ms. No. 37). The recto and top of the verso were designated by Stevens as two different songs, although he left open the possibility that they could be from the same work. Fallows said they are two stanzas of the same carol and proposes that Fragment B contains the second and third stanzas. This leads Fallows to hypothesize that fragment B was not from a choirbook, but from a discantus partbook, because recto and verso of the fragment are a continuous discantus line, leading into another song.\n\nThe fragments present a varying array of scribal styles which could represent a single scribe engaging in different styles. While similar, it is questionable whether the handwriting of B is the same as A3. Fallows believes the handwriting is the same as another early Tudor fragment now in the Bodleian Library, Mus. D. 103. This fragment is two bifolia taken from an early seventheenth-century binding. The fragment from the Bodleian Library indicates that the scribe used music paper ruled with seven staves. As this fragment shows the full height of the page, it is the proof that it could not be cut in two in order to be used as the pastedowns for the Drexel manuscript. This also means that on Drexel fragment B one staff is missing from the top which corresponds to the beginning of the third stanza of the song \"In a slumbir.\" Departing from Stevens's point of view Fallows recognizes that the original leaf would have been the verso (now lost) facing fragment B. This helps understanding the other Drexel fragments.\n\nFragment C is also upright (as is fragment B). It is also from a discantus partbook, probably the same one as fragment B, bound into the other end of the Drexel partbook. It appears to have had seven staves on the page. The verso contains beginning of the discant to \"Jhoone is sike\" by Davy (Fayrfax no. 40). Six staves are visible and a fragment of the text indicates it began there. The recto contains the end of a carol celebrating the wedding of James IV of Scotland to Margaret (Henry VIII's daughter) in 1503. Stevens had observed that the tessitura of fragment C is in the alto range. Its recto and verso are apparently two different hands, neither of which is the same handwriting as fragment B.\n\nFragment D appears to come from a bassus partbook. Fallows entertains the possibilities that B, C, and D are the hand of a single scribe and that the fragments come from two sources, a choirbook and a set of three partbooks: fragments B, C, and H are from the discantus, fragment G from the tenor and fragment D from the bassus.\n\nFragment E contains a portion of John Taverner's \"La bella la bella.\" Because this song had been published in \"XX songes\" (London, 1530), it provides a context for it and the other fragments. Dating from a period later than fragments B or C, there is a possibility that this fragment is from the same discantus partbook as fragments B and C. If so, that suggests a date of 1510-1519—a date compatible with Taverner's \"La bella la bella\" as well as the later Henry VIII manuscript version of Fayrfax's \"Somewhat musying\" that is part of fragment A. As originally noted by John Ward, fragment F apparently was once part of the leaf that is now in Cleveland (no. 15b), originally facing Drexel A2. Although ultimately unprovable, Fallows argues that, save for fragment A, all other fragments probably stem from a single set of partbooks. These partbooks were probably copied around 1515 (a date based on the inclusion of \"La bella la bella\").\n\nThe explanation of fragments B and C help in understanding fragment F. The music on the two pages has the same music with different texts, leading to the conclusion that it is two stanzas of the same musical work. As it appears to be a single voice moving from recto to verso, the assumption can be made that this is also from a discantus partbook, even though this one has only five staves per page (whereas the previous fragments indicated seven staves).\n\nFallows concludes by saying there are two significant issues which the Drexel fragments reveal. They show the existence of the more florid singing style, dating from about 1500, which was known only through the Fayrfax manuscript and the publication \"XX songes\". In other words: the simpler style prevalent in the Henry VIII manuscript (from about 1515) did not replace the florid style, but the two existed simultaneously, demonstrated by the Drexel fragments. The second significant issue suggests that Oxford was a likely center of song production. Fallows concludes with the hope for editions of unpublished music which will move knowledge toward a clearer understanding of the history of English song.\n\nThis table is based on Monson. r=recto; v=verso.\n\nThis table is based on the articles by Stevens and Fallows. Neither author based their list on the integrity of the physical fragments but rather on their musical content. Thus, although there are nine fragments, both Stevens and Fallows enumerate more than nine items, as they discern more than a single musical work on some fragments. Fallows's list also includes designations for items in other libraries as he believes they were once joined with some of the Drexel fragments (fragments in other libraries are not included here). Stevens's list eschews use of bibliographic terms in identifying whether a fragment is recto or verso, or whether it comes from the front or the back of a volume.\n\nSome material from Drexel 4180–4185 has appeared in modern editions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "761896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761896", "title": "Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences", "text": "Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences (abbreviated as EPS or simply Encyclopaedia; , EPW, translated as Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Basic Outline) by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (first published in 1817, second edition 1827, third edition 1830), is a work that presents an abbreviated version of Hegel's systematic philosophy in its entirety, and is the only form in which Hegel ever published his entire mature philosophical system. The fact that the account is exhaustive, that the grounding structures of reality are ideal, and that the system is closed makes the \"Encyclopedia\" a statement par excellence of absolute idealism.\n\nIntended as a pedagogical aid for attendees of his lectures, Hegel revised and extended the \"Encyclopedia\" over more than a decade, but stressed its role as a \"textbook\" in need of elucidation through oral commentary. The 1830 text is widely available in various English translations with copious additions (\"Zusätze\") added posthumously by Hegel's students, deriving from their lecture notes. These additions expand on the text with examples and illustrations, and while scholars do not take the \"Zusätze\" to be verbatim transcription of Hegel's lectures, their more informal and non-technical style make them good stand-ins for the \"necessary oral commentary\".\n\nPart I of the work is sometimes referred to as the Lesser Logic (or Shorter Logic) to distinguish it from the \"Greater Logic\", the moniker given to Hegel's \"Science of Logic\".\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" has three main parts, each of which is further subdivided, which together purport to cover all the fundamental aspects of reality, and form a closed systematic unity.\nHegel is careful to methodically derive each category of reality ('thought-determination') from its predecessor notion, with the completed system bringing the circle to a close, demonstrating its unity.\n\nThe work describes the pattern of the Idea as manifesting itself in dialectical reasoning.\n\nWhile some believe that the philosophy of nature and mind are applications of the logic, this is a misunderstanding. The purpose of the \"Encyclopedia\" is descriptive: to describe how Geist (Spirit or Mind) develops itself and not to apply the dialectical method to all areas of human knowledge, but Spirit is in process of growing, like a seed growing into a mature tree: it passes through stages. The first stage of Spirit's development is described in the Logic. Thus the Logic presents the categories of thought as they are in themselves; they are the minimal conditions for thinking anything at all, the conceptions that run in the background of all our thinking. These logical categories turn out to be none other than Geist itself. In order to get at what a thing \"is\", we must think about it. No amount of observing will bring us to the essence of things. Thinking and being are equivalent, and so logic and metaphysics are equivalent as well. The underlying element of it all is Geist; thus the activity of thinking is no less than Geist articulating itself. (This is how Hegel could say that logic is the thought of the mind of God before creation.)\n\nAs Geist works itself out more fully, it reaches the point where it simply cannot remain as it is; it is incomplete, and therefore it \"others\" itself; this is where the philosophy of nature emerges. When this stage of its development is completed, Geist \"returns\" to itself, which is the emergence of the philosophy of mind.\n\nHegel coined the term \"diamond net\" in the book. He said, “the entire range of the universal determinations of thought… into which everything is brought and thereby first made intelligible.” In other words, the diamond net of which Hegel speaks are the logical categories according to which we understand our experience, thus making our empirical observations intelligible.\n\nEnglish translations of all three parts are available from Oxford University Press, with each part bound as a separate book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "699052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=699052", "title": "Ethics of technology", "text": "Ethics of technology\n\nEthics in technology is a sub-field of ethics addressing the ethical questions specific to the Technology Age. Some prominent works of philosopher Hans Jonas are devoted to ethics of technology. The subject has also been explored, following the work of Mario Bunge, under the term technoethics.\n\nIt is often held that technology itself is incapable of possessing moral or ethical qualities, since \"technology\" is merely tool making. But many now believe that each piece of technology is endowed with and radiating ethical commitments all the time, given to it by those that made it, and those that decided how it must be made and used. Whether merely a lifeless amoral 'tool' or a solidified embodiment of human values \"ethics of technology\" refers to two basic subdivisions:-\n\nIn the former case, ethics of such things as computer security and computer viruses asks whether the very act of innovation is an ethically right or wrong act. Similarly, does a scientist have an ethical obligation to produce or fail to produce a nuclear weapon? What are the ethical questions surrounding the production of technologies that waste or conserve energy and resources? What are the ethical questions surrounding the production of new manufacturing processes that might inhibit employment, or might inflict suffering in the third world?\n\nIn the latter case, the ethics of technology quickly break down into the ethics of various human endeavors as they are altered by new technologies. For example, bioethics is now largely consumed with questions that have been exacerbated by the new life-preserving technologies, new cloning technologies, and new technologies for implantation. In law, the right of privacy is being continually attenuated by the emergence of new forms of surveillance and anonymity. The old ethical questions of privacy and free speech are given new shape and urgency in an Internet age. Such tracing devices as RFID, biometric analysis and identification, genetic screening, all take old ethical questions and amplify their significance.\n\nTechnoethics (TE) is an interdisciplinary research area that draws on theories and methods from multiple knowledge domains (such as communications, social sciences information studies, technology studies, applied ethics, and philosophy) to provide insights on ethical dimensions of technological systems and practices for advancing a technological society.\n\nTechnoethics views technology and ethics as socially embedded enterprises and focuses on discovering the ethical use of technology, protecting against the misuse of technology, and devising common principles to guide new advances in technological development and application to benefit society. Typically, scholars in technoethics have a tendency to conceptualize technology and ethics as interconnected and embedded in life and society. Technoethics denotes a broad range of ethical issues revolving around technology – from specific areas of focus affecting professionals working with technology to broader social, ethical, and legal issues concerning the role of technology in society and everyday life.\n\nTechnoethical perspectives are constantly in transition as technology advances in areas unseen by creators, as users change the intended uses of new technologies. Humans cannot be separated from these technologies because it is an inherent part of consciousness and meaning in life therefore, requiring an ethical model. The short term and longer term ethical considerations for technologies do not just engage the creator and producer but makes the user question their beliefs in correspondence with this technology and how governments must allow, react to, change, and/or deny technologies.\n\nUsing theories and methods from multiple domains, technoethics provides insights on ethical aspects of technological systems and practices, examines technology-related social policies and interventions, and provides guidelines for how to ethically use new advancements in technology. Technoethics provides a systems theory and methodology to guide a variety of separate areas of inquiry into human-technological activity and ethics. Moreover, the field unites both technocentric and bio-centric philosophies, providing \"conceptual grounding to clarify the role of technology to those affected by it and to help guide ethical problem solving and decision making in areas of activity that rely on technology.\" As a bio-techno-centric field, technoethics \"has a relational orientation to both technology and human activity\"; it provides \"a system of ethical reference that justifies that profound dimension of technology as a central element in the attainment of a 'finalized' perfection of man.'\n\n\nThough the ethical consequences of new technologies have existed since Socrates' attack on writing in Plato's dialogue, \"Phaedru\"s, the formal field of technoethics had only existed for a few decades. The first traces of TE can be seen in Dewey and Peirce's pragmatism. With the advent of the industrial revolution, it was easy to see that technological advances were going to influence human activity. This is why they put emphasis on the responsible use of technology.\n\nThe term \"technoethics\" was coined in 1977 by the philosopher Mario Bunge to describe the responsibilities of technologists and scientists to develop ethics as a branch of technology. Bunge argued that the current state of technological progress was guided by ungrounded practices based on limited empirical evidence and trial-and-error learning. He recognized that \"the technologist must be held not only technically but also morally responsible for whatever he designs or executes: not only should his artifacts be optimally efficient but, far from being harmful, they should be beneficial, and not only in the short run but also in the long term.\" He recognized a pressing need in society to create a new field called 'Technoethics' to discover rationally grounded rules for guiding science and technological progress.\n\nWith the spurt in technological advances came technological inquiry. Societal views of technology were changing; people were becoming more critical of the developments that were occurring and scholars were emphasizing the need to understand and to take a deeper look and study the innovations. Associations were uniting scholars from different disciplines to study the various aspects of technology. The main disciplines being philosophy, social sciences and science and technology studies (STS). Though many technologies were already focused on ethics, each technology discipline was separated from each other, despite the potential for the information to intertwine and reinforce itself. As technologies became increasingly developed in each discipline, their ethical implications paralleled their development, and became increasingly complex. Each branch eventually became united, under the term technoethics, so that all areas of technology could be studied and researched based on existing, real-world examples and a variety of knowledge, rather than just discipline-specific knowledge.\n\nTechnoethics involves the ethical aspects of technology within a society that is shaped by technology. This brings up a series of social and ethical questions regarding new technological advancements and new boundary crossing opportunities. Before moving forward and attempting to address any ethical questions and concerns, it is important to review the three major ethical theories to develop a perspective foundation :\n\n\n\nMany advancements within the past decades have added to the field of technoethics. There are multiple concrete examples that have illustrated the need to consider ethical dilemmas in relation to technological innovations. Beginning in the 1940s influenced by the British eugenic movement, the Nazis conduct \"racial hygiene\" experiments causing widespread, global anti-eugenic sentiment. In the 1950s the first satellite Sputnik 1 orbited the earth, the Obninsk Nuclear Power Plant was the first nuclear power plant to be opened, the American nuclear tests take place. The 1960s brought about the first manned moon landing, ARPANET created which leads to the later creation of the Internet, first heart transplantation completed, and the Telstar communications satellite is launched. The 70s, 80s, 90s, 2000s and 2010s also brought multiple developments.\n\nTechnological consciousness is the relationship between humans and technology. Technology is seen as an integral component of human consciousness and development. Technology, consciousness and society are intertwined in a relational process of creation that is key to human evolution. Technology is rooted in the human mind, and is made manifest in the world in the form of new understandings and artifacts. The process of technological consciousness frames the inquiry into ethical responsibility concerning technology by grounding technology in human life.\n\nThe structure of technological consciousness is relational but also situational, organizational, aspectual and integrative. Technological consciousness situates new understandings by creating a context of time and space. As well, technological consciousness organizes disjointed sequences of experience under a sense of unity that allows for a continuity of experience. The aspectual component of technological consciousness recognizes that individuals can only be conscious of aspects of an experience, not the whole thing. For this reason, technology manifests itself in processes that can be shared with others. The integrative characteristics of technological consciousness are assimilation, substitution and conversation. Assimilation allows for unfamiliar experiences to be integrated with familiar ones. Substitution is a metaphorical process allowing for complex experiences to be codified and shared with others — for example, language. Conversation is the sense of an observer within an individual's consciousness, providing stability and a standpoint from which to interact with the process.\n\nThe common misunderstandings about consciousness and technology are listed as follows. The first misunderstanding is that consciousness is only in the head when in fact, consciousness is not only in the head meaning that \"[c]onsciousness is responsible for the creation of new conscious relations wherever imagined, be it in the head, on the street or in the past.\" The second misunderstanding is technology is not a part of consciousness. The truth is that technology is a part of consciousness as \"the conceptualization of technology has gone through drastic changes.\" The third misunderstanding is that technology controls society and consciousness, when really technology does not control society and consciousness; meaning \"that technology is rooted in consciousness as an integral part of mental life for everyone. This understanding will most likely alter how both patients and psychologists deal with the trials and tribunes of living with technology.\" The last misunderstanding is society controls technology and consciousness which is not true, society does not control technology and consciousness. \"…(other) accounts fail to acknowledge the complex relational nature of technology as an operation within mind and society. This realization shifts the focus on technology to its origins within the human mind as explained through the theory of technological consciousness.\"\n\n\nEthical challenges arise in many different situations,\n\n\nDigital copyrights are a heated issue because there are so many sides to the discussion. There are ethical considerations surrounding the artist, producer, end user, and the country are intertwined. Not to mention the relationships with other countries and the impact on the use (or no use) of content housed in their countries. In Canada, national laws such as the Copyright Act and the history behind Bill C-32 are just the beginning of the government's attempt to shape the \"wild west\" of Canadian Internet activities. The ethical considerations behind Internet activities such a peer-to-peer file sharing involve every layer of the discussion – the consumer, artist, producer, music/movie/software industry, national government, and international relations. Overall, technoethics forces the \"big picture\" approach to all discussions on technology in society. Although time consuming, this \"big picture\" approach offers some level of reassurance when considering that any law put in place could drastically alter the way we interact with our technology and thus the direction of work and innovation in the country.\n\nThe use of copyrighted material to create new content is a hotly debated topic. The emergence of the musical \"mashup\" genre has compounded the issue of creative licensing. A moral conflict is created between those who believe that copyright protects any unauthorized use of content, and those who maintain that sampling and mash-ups are acceptable musical styles and, though they use portions of copyrighted material, the end result is a new creative piece which is the property of the creator, and not of the original copyright holder. Whether or not the mashup genre should be allowed to use portions of copyrighted material to create new content is one which is currently under debate.\n\nFor many years , new technologies took an important place in social, cultural, political, and economic life. Thanks to the democratization of informatics access and the network's globalization, the number of exchanges and transaction is in perpetual progress.\n\nMany people are exploiting the facilities and anonymity that modern technologies offer in order to commit multiple criminal activities. Cybercrime is one of the fastest growing areas of crime. The problem is that some laws that profess to protect people from those who would do wrong things via digital means also threaten to take away people's freedom.\n\nSince the introduction of full body X-ray scanners to airports in 2007, many concerns over traveler privacy have arisen. Individuals are asked to step inside a rectangular machine that takes an alternate wavelength image of the person's naked body for the purpose of detecting metal and non-metal objects being carried under the clothes of the traveler. This screening technology comes in two forms, millimeter wave technology (MM-wave technology) or backscatter X-rays (similar to x-rays used by dentists). Full-body scanners were introduced into airports to increase security and improve the quality of screening for objects such as weapons or explosives due to an increase of terrorist attacks involving airplanes occurring in the early 2000s.\n\nEthical concerns of both travelers and academic groups include fear of humiliation due to the disclosure of anatomic or medical details, exposure to a low level of radiation (in the case of backscatter X-ray technology), violation of modesty and personal privacy, clarity of operating procedures, the use of this technology to discriminate against groups, and potential misuse of this technology for reasons other than detecting concealed objects. Also people with religious beliefs that require them to remain physically covered (arms, legs, face etc.) at all times will be unable and morally opposed to stepping inside of this virtually intrusive scanning technology. The Centre for Society, Science and Citizenship have discussed their ethical concerns including the ones mentioned above and suggest recommendations for the use of this technology in their report titled \"Whole Body Imaging at airport checkpoints: the ethical and policy context\" (2010).\n\nThe discourse around GPS tracking devices and geolocation technologies and this contemporary technology's ethical ramifications on privacy is growing as the technology becomes more prevalent in society. As discussed in the \"New York Times\"'s Sunday Review on September 22, 2012, the editorial focused on the ethical ramifications that imprisoned a drug offender because of the GPS technology in his cellphone was able to locate the criminal's position. Now that most people carry on the person a cell, the authorities have the ability to constantly know the location of a large majority of citizens. The ethical discussion now can be framed from a legal perspective. As raised in the editorial, there are stark infractions that these geolocation devices on citizens' Fourth Amendment and their protection against unreasonable searches. This reach of this issue is not just limited to the United States but affects more democratic state that uphold similar citizens' rights and freedoms against unreasonable searches.\n\nThese geolocation technologies are not only affecting how citizens interact with their state but also how employees interact with their workplaces. As discussed in article by the Canadian Broadcasting Company, \"GPS and privacy\", that a growing number of employers are installing geolocation technologies in \"company vehicles, equipment and cellphones\" (Hein, 2007). Both academia and unions are finding these new powers of employers to be indirect contradiction with civil liberties. This changing relationship between employee and employer because of the integration of GPS technology into popular society is demonstrating a larger ethical discussion on what are appropriate privacy levels. This discussion will only become more prevalent as the technology becomes more popular.\n\nGenetically modified foods have become quite common in developed countries around the world, boasting greater yields, higher nutritional value, and greater resistance to pests, but there are still many ethical concerns regarding their use. Even commonplace genetically modified crops like corn raise questions of the ecological consequences of unintended cross pollination, potential horizontal gene transfer, and other unforeseen health concerns for humans and animals.\n\nTrademarked organisms like the \"Glofish\" are a relatively new occurrence. These zebrafish, genetically modified to appear in several fluorescent colours and sold as pets in the United States, could have unforeseen effects on freshwater environments were they ever to breed in the wild.\n\nProviding they receive approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), another new type of fish may be arriving soon. The \"AquAdvantage salmon\", engineered to reach maturity within roughly 18 months (as opposed to three years in the wild), could help meet growing global demand. There are health and environmental concerns associated with the introduction any new GMO, but more importantly this scenario highlights the potential economic impact a new product may have. The FDA does perform an economic impact analysis to weigh, for example, the consequences these new genetically modified fish may have on the traditional salmon fishing industry against the long term gain of a cheaper, more plentiful source of salmon. These technoethical assessments, which regulatory organizations like the FDA are increasingly faced with worldwide, are vitally important in determining how GMOs—with all of their potential beneficial and harmful effects—will be handled moving forward.\n\nFor over 40 years, newborn screening has been a triumph of the 20th century public health system. Through this technology, millions of parents are given the opportunity to screen for and test a number of disorders, sparing the death of their children or complications such as mental retardation. However, this technology is growing at a fast pace, disallowing researchers and practitioners from being able to fully understand how to treat diseases and provide families in need with the resources to cope.\nA version of pre-natal testing, called tandem mass spectrometry, is a procedure that \"measures levels and patterns of numerous metabolites in a single drop of blood, which are then used to identify potential diseases. Using this same drop of blood, tandem mass spectrometry enables the detection of at least four times the number of disorders than was possible with previous technologies.\" This allows for a cost-effective and fast method of pre-natal testing.\n\nHowever, critics of tandem mass spectrometry and technologies like it are concerned about the adverse consequences of expanding newborn screen technology and the lack of appropriate research and infrastructure needed to provide optimum medical services to patients. Further concerns include \"diagnostic odysseys\", a situation in which the patient aimlessly continues to search for diagnoses where none exists.\n\nAmong other consequences, this technology raises the issue of whether individuals other than newborn will benefit from newborn screening practices. A reconceptualization of the purpose of this screening will have far reaching economic, health and legal impact. This discussion is only just beginning and requires informed citizenry to reach legal if not moral consensus on how far we as a society are comfortable with taking this technology.\n\nCitizen journalism is a concept describing citizens who wish to act as a professional journalist or media person by \"collecting, reporting, analyzing, and disseminating news and information\" According to Jay Rosen, citizen journalists are \"the people formerly known as the audience,\" who \"were on the receiving end of a media system that ran one way, in a broadcasting pattern, with high entry fees and a few firms competing to speak very loudly while the rest of the population listened in isolation from one another— and who today are not in a situation like that at all. ... The people formerly known as the audience are simply the public made realer, less fictional, more able, less predictable\". \n\nThe internet has provided society with a modern and accessible public space. Due to the openness of the internet, there are discernible effects on the traditional profession of journalism. Although the concept of citizen journalism is a seasoned one, \"the presence of online citizen journalism content in the marketplace may add to the diversity of information that citizens have access to when making decisions related to the betterment of their community or their life\". The emergence of online citizen journalism is fueled by the growing use of social media websites to share information about current events and issues locally, nationally and internationally.\n\nThe open and instantaneous nature of the internet affects the criteria of information quality on the web. A journalistic code of ethics is not instilled for those who are practicing citizen journalism. Journalists, whether professional or citizen, have needed to adapt to new priorities of current audiences: accessibility, quantity of information, quick delivery and aesthetic appeal. Thus, technology has affected the ethical code of the profession of journalism with the popular free and instant sharing qualities of the internet. Professional journalists have had to adapt to these new practices to ensure that truthful and quality reporting is being distributed. The concept can be seen as a great advancement in how society communicates freely and openly or can be seen as contributing to the decay of traditional journalistic practices and codes of ethics.\n\nOther issues to consider:\n\nDespite the amassing body of scholarly work related to technoethics beginning in the 1970s, only recently has it become institutionalized and recognized as an important interdisciplinary research area and field of study. In 1998, the Epson Foundation founded the Instituto de Tecnoética in Spain under the direction of Josep Esquirol. This institute has actively promoted technoethical scholarship through awards, conferences, and publications. This helped encourage scholarly work for a largely European audience. The major driver for the emergence of technoethics can be attributed to the publication of major reference works available in English and circulated globally. The \"Encyclopedia of Science, Technology, and Ethics\" included a section on technoethics which helped bring it into mainstream philosophy. This helped to raise further interest leading to the publication of the first reference volume in the English language dedicated to the emerging field of Technoethics. The two volume \"Handbook of Research on Technoethics\" explores the complex connections between ethics and the rise of new technologies (e.g., life-preserving technologies, stem cell research, cloning technologies, new forms of surveillance and anonymity, computer networks, Internet advancement, etc.) This recent major collection provides the first comprehensive examination of technoethics and its various branches from over 50 scholars around the globe. The emergence of technoethics can be juxtaposed with a number of other innovative interdisciplinary areas of scholarship which have surfaced in recent years such as technoscience and technocriticism.\n\nWith all the developments we've had in technology it has created a lot advancement for the music industry both positive and negative. A main concern is piracy and illegal downloading; with all that is available through the internet a lot of music (TV shows and movies as well) have become easily accessible to download and upload for free. This does create new challenges for artist, producers, and copyright laws. The advances it has positively made for the industry is a whole new genre of music. Computers are being used to create electronic music, as well as synthesizers (computerized/electronic piano). This type of music is becoming rapidly more common and listened to. These advances have allowed the industry to try new things and make new explorations.\n\nThe future of technoethics is a promising, yet evolving field. The studies of e-technology in workplace environments are an evolving trend in technoethics. With the constant evolution of technology, and innovations coming out daily, technoethics is looking to be a rather promising guiding framework for the ethical assessments of new technologies. Some of the questions regarding technoethics and the workplace environment that have yet to be examined and treated are listed below:\n\nUNESCO – a specialized intergovernmental agency of the United Nations, focusing on promotion of education, culture social and natural sciences and communication and information.\nIn the future, the use of principles as expressed in the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights (2005) will also be analyzed to broaden the description of bioethical reasoning (Adell & Luppicini, 2009).\n\nBiotech ethics concerned with ethical dilemmas surrounding the use of biotechnologies in fields including medical research, health care, and industrial applications. Topics such as cloning ethics, e-health ethics, telemedicine ethics, genetics ethics, neuroethics, and sport and nutrition ethics fall into this category; examples of specific issues include the debates surrounding euthanasia and reproductive rights.\n\nThis area of technoethical inquiry is concerned with technology's relation to the human mind, artificial agents, and society. Topics of study that would fit into this category would be artificial morality and moral agents, technoethical systems and techno-addiction.\n\nThis field is concerned with the uses of technology to ethically regulate aspects of a society. For example: digital property ethics, social theory, law, science, organizational ethics and global ethics.\n\nTechnoethics has concerned itself with society as a general group and made no distinctions between the genders, but considers technological effects and influences on each gender individually. This is an important consideration as some technologies are created for use by a specific gender, including birth control, abortion, fertility treatments, and Viagra. Feminists have had a significant influence on the prominence and development of reproductive technologies. Technoethical inquiry must examine these technologies' effects on the intended gender while also considering their influence on the other gender. Another dimension of technofeminism concerns female involvement in technological development: women's participation in the field of technology has broadened society's understanding of how technology affects the female experience in society.\n\nInformation and communication technoethics is \"concerned with ethical issues and responsibilities arising when dealing with information and communication technology in the realm of communication.\" This field is related to internet ethics, rational and ethical decision making models, and information ethics. A major area of interest is the convergence of technologies: as technologies become more interdependent and provide people with multiple ways of accessing the same information, they transform society and create new ethical dilemmas. This is particularly evident in the realms of the internet. In recent years, users have had the unprecedented position of power in creating and disseminating news and other information globally via social networking; the concept of \"citizen journalism\" primarily relates to this. With developments in the media, has led to open media ethics as Ward writes, leading to citizen journalism.\n\nIn cases such as the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami or the 2011 Arab Spring movements, citizen journalists were seen to have been significant sources of facts and information in relation to the events. These were re-broadcast by news outlets, and more importantly, re-circulated by and to other internet users. As Jay David Bolter and Richard Grusin state in their book Remediation: Understanding New Media (1999): \"The liveness of the Web is a refashioned version of the liveness of broadcast television\" However, it is commonly political events (such as 'Occupy' movements or the Iran Elections of 2009) that tend to raise ethical questions and concerns. In the latter example, there had been efforts made by the Iranian government in censoring and prohibiting the spread of internal happenings to the outside by its citizen journalists. This occurrence questioned the importance of the spread of crucial information regarding the issue, and the source from which it came from (citizen journalists, government authorities, etc.). This goes to prove how the internet \"enables new forms of human action and expression [but] at the same time it disables [it]\" Information and Communication Technoethics also identifies ways to develop ethical frameworks of research structures in order to capture the essence of new technologies.\n\nTechnoethical inquiry in the field of education examines how technology impacts the roles and values of education in society. This field considers changes in student values and behavior related to technology, including access to inappropriate material in schools, online plagiarism using material copied directly from the internet, or purchasing papers from online resources and passing them off as the student's own work. Educational technoethics also examines the digital divide that exists between educational institutions in developed and developing countries or between unequally-funded institutions within the same country: for instance, some schools offer students access to online material, while others do not. Professional technoethics focuses on the issue of ethical responsibility for those who work with technology within a professional setting, including engineers, medical professionals, and so on. Efforts have been made to delineate ethical principles in professions such as computer programming (see programming ethics).\n\nEnvironmental technoethics originate from the 1960s and 1970s' interest in environment and nature. The field focuses on the human use of technologies that may impact the environment; areas of concern include transport, mining, and sanitation. Engineering technoethics emerged in the late 19th century. As the Industrial Revolution triggered a demand for expertise in engineering and a need to improve engineering standards, societies began to develop codes of professional ethics and associations to enforce these codes. Ethical inquiry into engineering examines the \"responsibilities of engineers combining insights from both philosophy and the social sciences.\"\n\nA technoethical assessment (TEA) is an interdisciplinary, systems-based approach to assessing ethical dilemmas related to technology. TEAs aim to guide actions related to technology in an ethical direction by advancing knowledge of technologies and their effects; successful TEAs thus produce a shared understanding of knowledge, values, priorities, and other ethical aspects associated with technology. TEAs involve five key steps:\n\n\nTechnoethical design (TED) refers to the process of designing technologies in an ethical manner, involving stakeholders in participatory design efforts, revealing hidden or tacit technological relations, and investigating what technologies make possible and how people will use them. TED involves the following four steps:\n\n\nBoth TEA and TED rely on systems theory, a perspective that conceptualizes society in terms of events and occurrences resulting from investigating system operations. Systems theory assumes that complex ideas can be studied as systems with common designs and properties which can be further explained using systems methodology. The field of technoethics regards technologies as self-producing systems that draw upon external resources and maintain themselves through knowledge creation; these systems, of which humans are a part, are constantly in flux as relations between technology, nature, and society change. TEA attempts to elicit the knowledge, goals, inputs, and outputs that comprise technological systems. Similarly, TED enables designers to recognize technology's complexity and power, to include facts and values in their designs, and to contextualize technology in terms of what it makes possible and what makes it possible.\n\nRecent advances in technology and their ability to transmit vast amounts of information in a short amount of time has changed the way information is being shared amongst co-workers and managers throughout organizations across the globe. Starting in the 1980s with information and communications technologies (ICTs), organizations have seen an increase in the amount of technology that they rely on to communicate within and outside of the workplace. However, these implementations of technology in the workplace create various ethical concerns and in turn a need for further analysis of technology in organizations. As a result of this growing trend, a subsection of technoethics known as organizational technoethics has emerged to address these issues.\n\nKey scholarly contributions linking ethics, technology, and society can be found in a number of seminal works:\n\nThis resulting scholarly attention to ethical issues arising from technological transformations of work and life has helped given rise to a number of key areas (or branches) of technoethical inquiry under various research programs (i.e., computer ethics, engineering ethics, environmental technoethics, biotech ethics, Nanoethics, educational technoethics, information and communication ethics, media ethics, and Internet ethics).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56866272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56866272", "title": "Francesco Serao", "text": "Francesco Serao\n\nFrancesco Serao (20 September 1702 - 5 August 1783) was an Italian physician, physicist, geologist, philosopher and scholar. He was born in San Cipriano d'Aversa and died in Naples, Italy.\n\nThanks to his maternal uncle, Don Antonio Forno, Serao was taught by the Jesuits in Naples. He followed the thinking of Descartes. At eighteen, he graduated in medicine and in 1727 he was awarded the chair of theoretical medicine. In 1732 he was professor of anatomy, then of medicine.\n\nHe was a member of the Royal Academy or Academy of Sciences of Naples with his teacher Niccolò Cirillo and was a member of the Academy of Sciences of Paris, of the London Academy, of the Benedictine University of Bologna and of other important scientific and literary groups in Europe. \n\nHe translated John Pringle's medical works into Italian. Serao was chief physician of the Kingdom of Naples and physician to King Ferdinand IV of Bourbon. Serao died in 1783 and was buried in the church of Monteverginella in Naples. \n\n\n\n\"Vesuvius Erupts, 1738\", a summary of Serao's observations of Mount Vesuvius — \"Volcanoes, Basalt, and the Discovery of Geological Time\" An Exhibition of Rare Publications from the Collections of the Linda Hall Library \n"}
{"id": "4411559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411559", "title": "Function and Concept", "text": "Function and Concept\n\n\"Function and Concept\" (, \"On Function and Concept\") is an article by Gottlob Frege, published in 1891. The article involves a clarification of his earlier distinction between concepts and objects.\n\nIn general, a concept is a function whose value is always a truth value (139). A relation is a two place function whose value is always a truth value (146).\n\nFrege draws an important distinction between concepts on the basis of their level. Frege tells us that a first-level concept is a one-place function that correlates objects with truth-values (147). First level concepts have the value of true or false depending on whether the object falls under the concept. So, the concept formula_1 has the value the True with the argument the object named by 'Jamie' if and only if Jamie falls under the concept formula_2 (or is in the extension of F).\n\nSecond order concepts correlate concepts and relations with truth values. So, if we take the relation of identity to be the argument formula_3, the concept expressed by the sentence:\n\nformula_4\n\ncorrelates the relation of identity with the True.\n\nThe conceptual range (Begriffsumfang) follows the truth value of the function:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4205987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205987", "title": "Gabriel Liiceanu", "text": "Gabriel Liiceanu\n\nGabriel Liiceanu (; b. May 23, 1942, Râmnicu-Vâlcea) is a Romanian philosopher.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Bucharest's Faculty of Philosophy in 1965, and from Faculty of Classical Languages in 1973. He earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Bucharest in 1976.\n\nBetween 1965 and 1975, Liiceanu was a researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, and between 1975 and 1989 at the Institute of Art History. He received a fellowship from the Humboldt Foundation between 1982 and 1984.\n\nHe has been the manager of Humanitas publishing house since 1990. He has been professor at the University of Bucharest's Faculty of Philosophy since 1992.\n\nLiiceanu is also a founding member of the Group for Social Dialogue (1990), president of the Romanian Publishers' Association (since 2000), and member of the scientific council of New Europe College. Between 1998 and 2001, he was a member of the Romanian National Television's Administrative Board.\n\nHe was greatly influenced by his mentor, Constantin Noica, especially during the time spent at Păltiniş (an experience that he evokes in his famous \"Jurnalul de la Păltiniş\" - \"The Păltiniş Diary\"). Noica, a Romanian philosopher known abroad as well as in the country, used to take his most valuable students and followers to his small house at Păltiniş, where he would teach them what they afterwards called \"not philosophy lessons, but spiritual experiences\". Another Noica follower who was invited to Păltiniş was Andrei Pleșu (Liiceanu and Pleşu are still friends today). Liiceanu refers to that experience in his books as the \"Păltiniş School\" and the term began to be widely accepted and used in Romanian, as well as European, philosophy. Liiceanu continued to publish well into the 2000s, and he remains a mainstream figure in Romanian intellectual public life, with close connections with Andrei Plesu, Monica Lovinescu and Virgil Ierunca. One critic, Gabriel Andreescu, suggested that Liiceanu allegedly facilitated extremism by allowing his publishing house to edit the works of inter-war (Communist-persecuted) Romanian figures whom Andreescu accused of being \"ideologues of right-wing extremism\".\n\n\nHis books are currently being published in Brazil by Editora Ecclesiae.\n\nfrom Greek and German:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2443077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2443077", "title": "Gaunilo of Marmoutiers", "text": "Gaunilo of Marmoutiers\n\nGaunilo or Gaunillon ( century) was a Benedictine monk of Marmoutier Abbey in Tours, France. He is best known for his contemporary criticism of the ontological argument for the existence of God which appeared in St Anselm's \"Proslogion\". In his work \"In Behalf of the Fool\", Gaunilo contends that St Anselm's ontological argument fails because logic of the same kind would force one to conclude many things exist which certainly do not. An empiricist, Gaunilo thought that the human intellect is only able to comprehend information provided by the senses.\n\nLittle beyond this essay is known of Gaunilo; no other extant writings bear his name. Anselm wrote a reply to it, essentially arguing that Gaunilo had missed his point.\nAnselm claimed his ontological argument as proof of the existence of God, whom he described as that being for which no greater can be conceived. A god that does not exist cannot be that than which no greater can be conceived, as existence would make it greater. Thus, according to St. Anselm, the concept of God necessarily entails His existence. He denies Gaunilo a Godless epistemology.\n\nGaunilo criticised Anselm's argument by employing the same reasoning, via \"reductio ad absurdum\", to \"prove\" the existence of the mythical \"Lost Island\", the greatest or most perfect island: if the island of which we are thinking does not exist, it cannot be the greatest conceivable island, for, to be the greatest conceivable island, it would have to exist, as any existent island would be greater than an imaginary one. This, of course, is merely a direct application of Anselm's own premise that existence is a perfection. Since we can conceive of this greatest or most perfect island, it must, by Anselm's way of thinking, exist. While this argument is absurd, Gaunilo claims that it is no more so than Anselm's.\n\nAnselm had no difficulty in rejecting this parody, because Gaunilo had described the Lost Island as \"an island more excellent than any other lands\". Anselm correctly pointed out that nowhere had he had put forward the kind of argument which Gaunilo alleged, \"because the phrase 'greater than everything' does not have the same force for the purpose of proving that what is spoken of is in reality as [his own phrase] \"than which a greater cannot be conceived\" <Anselm's Reply V>. Because Gaunilo's phrase did not contain the words \"can be conceived\", his counter-argument cannot generate the contradiction from which Anselm concludes that something than which a greater cannot be conceived is in reality. \nPhilosophers often attempt to prove the ontological argument wrong by comparing Anselm's with Gaunilo's.  The former runs:  \n\n\nGaunilo's parody runs along the same lines:\n\n\nIf one of these arguments is sound, it has been asserted, they must both be sound. By Gaunilo's reckoning, however, one (and, therefore, the other, too) is unsound. The Lost Island does not exist, so there is something wrong with the logic that proves that it does. Because the argument proves true in one case that which is patently false (the Lost Island), it is fair to ask whether it may fairly be regarded as proving true the other case. The fact that there is no perfect island is put forth by Gaunilo as showing that Anselm's argument for God's existence is flawed. Such objections are called overload objections: they do not claim to show where or how the argument goes wrong; they merely argue that, if it is unsound in one application, it is unsound in all others. Simply put, they are arguments that would overload the world with an indefinitely large number of things, like perfect islands.\n\nGaunilo's objection to the ontological argument has been criticised on several grounds. Anselm's own reply was essentially that Gaunilo had missed his point: any \"other\" being's existence is derived from God's, unnecessary in itself, and nonamenable to his ontological argument which can only ever properly apply to the single greatest being of all beings. Indeed, while we can try and conceive of a perfect island, that island is yet greater if it creates other beings, whereupon it would no longer be an island as we can understand it. Similarly, Alvin Plantinga tendered a reply to Gaunilo's remonstrance by arguing that the concept of \"\"that than which nothing greater can be conceived\" is not applicable to an island, or any other object, in the special way that it is applicable to God. Plantinga defends Anselm's proof by averring that it applies exclusively to Him. A necessary being is both existent and the greatest conceivable and greatest possible being. Only God, as Anselm defines him, meets all of those criteria and can, therefore, be dubbed a necessary being.\n\nAnother criticism of Gaunilo's argument points out that, whereas God is that \"thing\" than which no greater can be conceived, Gaunilo's is that \"island\" than which no greater can be conceived. Thus, while no island may exceed it in greatness, it is perfectly reasonable to suppose that some non-island could. \"Consequently,\" wrote William L. Rowe in his summary of the polemic, \"if we follow Anselm's reasoning exactly, it does not appear that we can derive an absurdity from the supposition that the island than which none greater is possible does not exist.\"\"\n\nGaunilo's refutation is also criticized on the grounds that it misinterprets the argument set forth by Anselm. Richard Campbell contends that the argument criticized by Gaunilo is incomplete because it represents only one of three stages of a larger argument, one that is not meant to be read as a proof for God but rather as the basis for the following chapter.\n\nDavid and Marjorie Haight took a very similar tack with Anselm's proof attempt as did Gaunilo. However, whereas Gaunilo changed the target noun of Anselm's proof, \"God\", to an alternate noun that he felt was more obviously absurd, a \"Lost Island\", the Haights inverted the adjective in Anselm's reasoning. Where Anselm used the word \"greater\" to define god into existence, the Haights point out that the logic can be inverted by replacing \"greater\" with \"worse\". The statement then follows to a conclusion that the very most bad thing has to be an existent bad thing, because it would be worse for this bad thing to exist than to not exist, therefore it must exist in its absolute badness. Therefore, the Devil must also exist, so long as Anselm's proof is held as consequential.\n\nBoth Gaunilo and the Haights arguments point out that there may be other nouns, and other bivalent adjectives that when conceived as an Anselm proof (in an extreme that demands existence) could also be argued to necessitate their existence as well. For example, with cold or heat: Surely an absolutely cold (or hot) being that exists in reality is more absolutely cold (or hot) than one that only exists in imagination. Therefore, it must indeed exist in reality. And so on. The Haights show that the word \"great\" may not be the only adjective that pushes for existence when conceived in the extreme, just as the phrase \"that God thing\" may not be the only noun interacting with \"great\" in this way, as Gaunilo observed.\n\nGaunilo's treatise is divided into eight sections. The first seven of these sections are criticisms of Anselm's argument from the point of view of a rational non-believer. The last section (8) is simply praise for the remaining chapters of the Proslogion. The full title of Gaunilo's treatise is: 'What Someone in Behalf of the Fool Replies to these Arguments'. This means Gaunilo does not write as a fellow Christian who believes, rather, he pretends to be a rational non-believer. The scholarly debate has focused on section 6 (the Lost Island Refutation). Very few scholars engage with the remaining sections of Gaunilo's text.\n\n"}
{"id": "209215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209215", "title": "Georges Bataille", "text": "Georges Bataille\n\nGeorges Albert Maurice Victor Bataille (; ; 10 September 1897 – 9 July 1962) was a French intellectual and literary figure working in literature, philosophy, anthropology, economics, sociology and history of art. His writing, which included essays, novels, and poetry, explored such subjects as erotism, mysticism, surrealism, and transgression. His work would prove influential on subsequent schools of philosophy and social theory, including poststructuralism.\n\nGeorges Bataille was the son of Joseph-Aristide Bataille (b. 1851), a tax collector (later to go blind and paralysed on account of neurosyphilis), and Antoinette-Aglaë Tournarde (b. 1865). Born on 10 September 1897 in Billom in the region of Auvergne, his family moved to Reims in 1898, where he was baptized. He went to school in Reims and then Épernay. Although brought up without religious observance, he converted to Catholicism in 1914, and became a devout Catholic for about nine years. He considered entering the priesthood and attended a Catholic seminary briefly. However, he quit, apparently in part in order to pursue an occupation where he could eventually support his mother. He eventually renounced Christianity in the early 1920s.\n\nBataille attended the École Nationale des Chartes in Paris, graduating in February 1922. Though he is often referred to as an archivist and a librarian because of his employment at the Bibliothèque Nationale, his work there was with the medallion collections (he also published scholarly articles on numismatics). His thesis at the École des Chartes was a critical edition of the medieval manuscript \"L’Ordre de chevalerie\" which he produced directly by classifying the eight manuscripts from which he reconstructed the poem. After graduating he moved to the School of Advanced Spanish Studies in Madrid. As a young man, he befriended, and was much influenced by, the Russian existentialist, Lev Shestov.\n\nFounder of several journals and literary groups, Bataille is the author of a large and diverse body of work: readings, poems, essays on innumerable subjects (on the mysticism of economy, poetry, philosophy, the arts, eroticism). He sometimes published under pseudonyms, and some of his publications were banned. He was relatively ignored during his lifetime and scorned by contemporaries such as Jean-Paul Sartre as an advocate of mysticism, but after his death had considerable influence on authors such as Michel Foucault, Philippe Sollers, and Jacques Derrida, all of whom were affiliated with the journal \"Tel Quel\". His influence is felt most explicitly in the phenomenological work of Jean-Luc Nancy, but is also significant for the work of Jean Baudrillard, the psychoanalytic theories of Jacques Lacan and Julia Kristeva, and recent anthropological work from the likes of Michael Taussig.\n\nInitially attracted to Surrealism, Bataille quickly fell out with its founder André Breton, although Bataille and the Surrealists resumed cautiously cordial relations after World War II. Bataille was a member of the extremely influential College of Sociology which included several other renegade surrealists. He was heavily influenced by Hegel, Freud, Marx, Marcel Mauss, the Marquis de Sade, Alexandre Kojève, and Friedrich Nietzsche, the last of whom he defended in a notable essay against appropriation by the Nazis.\n\nFascinated by human sacrifice, he founded a secret society, \"Acéphale\", the symbol of which was a headless man. According to legend, Bataille and the other members of Acéphale each agreed to be the sacrificial victim as an inauguration; none of them would agree to be the executioner. An indemnity was offered for an executioner, but none was found before the dissolution of Acéphale shortly before the war. The group also published an eponymous review of Nietzsche's philosophy which attempted to postulate what Derrida has called an \"anti-sovereignty\". Collaborators in these projects included André Masson, Pierre Klossowski, Roger Caillois, , Jean Rollin and Jean Wahl.\n\nBataille drew from diverse influences and used various modes of discourse to create his work. His novel \"Story of the Eye\" (\"Histoire de l'oeil\"), published under the pseudonym Lord Auch (literally, Lord \"to the shithouse\" — \"auch\" being short for \"aux chiottes,\" slang for telling somebody off by sending him to the toilet), was initially read as pure pornography, while interpretation of the work has gradually matured to reveal the same considerable philosophical and emotional depth that is characteristic of other writers who have been categorized within \"literature of transgression\". The imagery of the novel is built upon a series of metaphors which in turn refer to philosophical constructs developed in his work: the eye, the egg, the sun, the earth, the testicle.\n\nOther famous novels include the posthumously published \"My Mother\" (which would become the basis of Christophe Honoré's film \"Ma Mère\"), \"The Impossible\" and \"Blue of Noon\", which, with its incest, necrophilia, politics, and autobiographical undertones, is a much darker treatment of contemporary historical reality.\n\nDuring World War II Bataille produced \"Summa Atheologica\" (the title parallels Thomas Aquinas' \"Summa Theologica\") which comprises his works \"Inner Experience\", \"Guilty\", and \"On Nietzsche\". After the war he composed \"The Accursed Share\", which he said represented thirty years' work. The singular conception of \"sovereignty\" expounded there would become an important topic of discussion for Derrida, Giorgio Agamben, Jean-Luc Nancy and others. Bataille also founded the influential journal \"Critique\".\n\nBataille's first marriage was to actress Silvia Maklès, in 1928; they divorced in 1934, and she later married the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan. Bataille also had an affair with Colette Peignot, who died in 1938. In 1946 Bataille married Diane de Beauharnais, with whom he had a daughter.\n\nIn 1955 Bataille was diagnosed with cerebral arteriosclerosis, although he was not informed at the time of the terminal nature of his illness. He died seven years later, on 9 July 1962.\n\nBataille was an atheist.\n\nBataille developed base materialism during the late 1920s and early 1930s as an attempt to break with mainstream materialism. He argues for the concept of an active base matter that disrupts the opposition of high and low and destabilises all foundations. In a sense the concept is similar to Baruch Spinoza's neutral monism of a substance that encompasses both the mind and the matter posited by René Descartes; however, it defies strict definition and remains in the realm of experience rather than rationalisation. Base materialism was a major influence on Derrida's deconstruction, and both thinkers attempt to destabilise philosophical oppositions by means of an unstable \"third term.\" Bataille's notion of materialism may also be seen as anticipating Louis Althusser's conception of aleatory materialism or \"materialism of the encounter,\" which draws on similar atomist metaphors to sketch a world in which causality and actuality are abandoned in favor of limitless possibilities of action.\n\n\"La Part maudite\" is a book written by Bataille between 1946 and 1949, when it was published by Les Éditions de Minuit. It was translated into English and published in 1991, with the title \"The Accursed Share\". It presents a new economic theory, which Bataille calls \"general economy,\" as distinct from the \"restricted\" economic perspective of most economic theory. Thus, in the theoretical introduction, Bataille writes the following:\n\nI will simply state, without waiting further, that the extension of economic growth itself requires the overturning of economic principles—the overturning of the ethics that grounds them. Changing from the perspectives of restrictive economy to those of general economy actually accomplishes a Copernican transformation: a reversal of thinking—and of ethics. If a part of wealth (subject to a rough estimate) is doomed to destruction or at least to unproductive use without any possible profit, it is logical, even inescapable, to surrender commodities without return. Henceforth, leaving aside pure and simple dissipation, analogous to the construction of the Pyramids, the possibility of pursuing growth is itself subordinated to giving: The industrial development of the entire world demands of Americans that they lucidly grasp the necessity, for an economy such as theirs, of having a margin of profitless operations. An immense industrial network cannot be managed in the same way that one changes a tire… It expresses a circuit of cosmic energy on which it depends, which it cannot limit, and whose laws it cannot ignore without consequences. Woe to those who, to the very end, insist on regulating the movement that exceeds them with the narrow mind of the mechanic who changes a tire.\n\nThus, according to Bataille's theory of consumption, the accursed share is that excessive and non-recuperable part of any economy which is destined to one of two modes of economic and social expenditure. This must either be spent luxuriously and knowingly without gain in the arts, in non-procreative sexuality, in spectacles and sumptuous monuments, or it is obliviously destined to an outrageous and catastrophic outpouring in war. Though the distinction is less apparent in Hurley's English translation, Bataille introduces the neologism 'consumation' (akin to a fire's burning) to signal this excess expenditure as distinct from 'consommation' (the non-excess expenditure more familiarly treated in theories of \"restricted\" economy).\n\nThe notion of \"excess\" energy is central to Bataille's thinking. Bataille's inquiry takes the superabundance of energy, beginning from the infinite outpouring of solar energy or the surpluses produced by life's basic chemical reactions, as the norm for organisms. In other words, an organism in Bataille's general economy, unlike the rational actors of classical economy who are motivated by scarcity, normally has an \"excess\" of energy available to it. This extra energy can be used productively for the organism's growth or it can be lavishly expended. Bataille insists that an organism's growth or expansion always runs up against limits and becomes impossible. The wasting of this energy is \"luxury.\" The form and role luxury assumes in a society are characteristic of that society. \"The accursed share\" refers to this excess, destined for waste.\n\nCrucial to the formulation of the theory was Bataille's reflection upon the phenomenon of potlatch. It is influenced by Marcel Mauss's \"The Gift\", as well as by Friedrich Nietzsche's \"On the Genealogy of Morals\".\n\nComplete works\n\nWorks published in French\n\nPosthumous works\n\nTranslated works\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15767782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15767782", "title": "Gwilym Ellis Lane Owen", "text": "Gwilym Ellis Lane Owen\n\nGwilym Ellis Lane Owen, FBA (18 May 1922 – 10 July 1982), who published as G. E. L. Owen, was a British philosopher, concerned with the history of Ancient Greek philosophy. He was educated at Portsmouth Grammar School and Corpus Christi College, Oxford. where his undergraduate career was interrupted by five years of military service. He became the foremost authority on Aristotle in his generation, at least in the English-speaking world.\n\nFrom 1973 until his death Owen was the fourth Laurence Professor of Ancient Philosophy at the University of Cambridge. An undergraduate at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, where after research at Durham he taught, he proceeded in 1966 to Harvard University, where his many distinguished students included Julia Annas, Gail Fine, Wilbur Knorr, Martha Nussbaum, and Nicholas P. White. He was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1969.\n\nHe is known particularly for his ideas on the development of Aristotle. He has been classed with J. L. Ackrill and Gregory Vlastos as influential in creating interest in the field, in the Anglo-American context. His collected papers were published posthumously under the title (1986). The best account of his work is by Ackrill in Proceedings of the British Academy 70 (1984), pp. 481-499.\n\nIn an article published in 2004, philosopher Martha C. Nussbaum describes Owen as a serial sexual harasser and an alcoholic, who harassed many women. This lengthy account is somewhat misleadingly summarized by Rachel Aviv as if it were a personal interview. Aviv does not mention the important fact, emphasized in the article, that Owen harassed many women and that his pattern was the same with all. Aviv writes:: [After Nussbaum entered the graduate program in classics at Harvard in 1969] \"When her thesis adviser, G.E. L. Owen, invited her to his office, served sherry, spoke about his life's sadness, and reached over to touch her breasts, [Nussbaum] says, she gently pushed him away, careful not to embarrass him... 'I managed to keep my control with Owen, and I never said a hostile word.'\" The real source for this material is not a personal interview, but the article by Nussbaum, \"Don't Smile Too Much: Philosophy and Women in the '70's,\" published in Linda Martin Alcoff, ed., SINGING IN THE FIRE: STORIES OF WOMEN IN PHILOSOPHY, Routledge.\n\nJohn Cooper, philosopher and former student of Owen's, acknowledged publicly at Princeton University's 2016 Classical Philosophy Conference that, despite his great scholarship, Owen was \"a very bad man.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37337830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37337830", "title": "Ho Jong-suk", "text": "Ho Jong-suk\n\nHo Jong-suk (; July 16, 1908 – June 5, 1991) was a Korean independence activist, writer, journalist, and communist. Her real name was Jongja (정자; 貞子).\n\nShe was a member of Singanhoe, Geunwoohoe and the Communist Party of Korea and also an early Korean women's rights activist.\n\nIn her early years, Ho went to Japan to study in Kwansei School in Tokyo. She later left and in her next years Ho went to China where she was given an entrance to Shanghai Foreign High School where she graduated. Later she returned to her country. In 1921, she participated in the women Movement and joined Korean Communist Party.\n\nAt that time, Japanese Government-General of Korea decided to make the Communist Party illegal. She avoided persecution for participation in the Communist Party. Later in 1924, she was introduced to International Women's Day, on March 1925, she went to Women's Day event in Seoul. In 1927 she was a founding member of and also participated to Singanhoe (신간회).\n\nHo also was in favor of \"Unrelated Love and Sex\". Her opinion was denounced in Korean society because at that time, the vestiges of fundamentalist Confucianism remained in the Koreas.\n\nIn 1936, she went to China where she participated in the Korean National Revolutionary Party (조선민족혁명당). In 1938, she went to Hebei, participated in , an Anti-Japanese Korean resistance Group. In 1945, she went to Seoul but she left for North Korea to avoid right wing terrorism. In 1948 she participated in the North Korean government.\n\nHo served as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of North Korea between 28 October 1959 and 1960.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29996600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29996600", "title": "Hope (given name)", "text": "Hope (given name)\n\nHope is a feminine name derived from the Middle English \"hope,\" ultimately from the Old English word \"hopian\" referring to a positive expectation or to the theological virtue of hope. It was used as a virtue name by the Puritans. Puritans also used Hope as an element in phrase names, such as Hope-for, Hopeful, and Hope-still.\n\nThe name is also the usual English translation of the Greek name of Saint Hope, an early Christian child martyr who was tortured to death along with her sisters Faith and Charity. She is known as Elpis in Greek and Spes in Church Latin and her name is translated differently in other languages.\n\nFaith, Hope and Charity, the three theological virtues, are names traditionally given to triplet girls, just as Faith and Hope remain common names for twin girls. There were 40 sets of twins named Faith and Hope born in the United States in 2009, the second most common name combination for twin girls. One example were the American triplets Faith, Hope and Charity Cardwell, who were born in 1899 in Texas and were recognized in 1994 by the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's longest lived triplets.\n\nHope has been among the top 1,000 names given to girls born in the United States since 1880 and has been among the top 500 since 1909. It was ranked as the 231st most popular name for girls born in 2011 in the United States, down from its peak ranking of No. 144 in 1999.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9345489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9345489", "title": "How many angels can dance on the head of a pin?", "text": "How many angels can dance on the head of a pin?\n\nThe question \"How many angels can dance on the head of a pin?\" (alternatively \"How many angels can stand on the \"point\" of a pin?\") is a reductio ad absurdum of medieval scholasticism in general, and its angelology in particular, as represented by figures such as Duns Scotus and Thomas Aquinas. \nIt is first recorded in the 17th century, in the context of Protestant apologetics.\nThe question has also been linked to the fall of Constantinople, with the imagery of scholars debating about minutiae while the Turks besieged the city. \nIn modern usage, it therefore has been used as a metaphor for wasting time debating topics of no practical value, or questions whose answers hold no intellectual consequence, while more urgent concerns pile up.\n\nAquinas's \"Summa Theologica\", written c. 1270, includes discussion of several questions regarding angels such as, \"Can several angels be in the same place?\" \nHowever the idea that such questions had a prominent place in medieval scholarship has been debated, and it has not been proved that this particular question was ever disputed. \nOne theory is that it is an early modern fabrication, as used to discredit scholastic philosophy at a time when it still played a significant role in university education. James Franklin has raised the scholarly issue, and mentions that there is a 17th-century reference in William Chillingworth's \"Religion of Protestants\" (1637), where he accuses unnamed scholastics of debating \"whether a Million of Angels may not fit upon a Needle's point?\"\nThis is earlier than a reference in the 1678 \"The True Intellectual System Of The Universe\" by Ralph Cudworth. HS Lang, author of \"Aristotle's Physics and its Medieval Varieties\" (1992), says (p. 284):\n\nPeter Harrison (2016) has suggested that the first reference to angels dancing on a needle's point occurs in an expository work by the English divine, William Sclater (1575-1626). \nIn \"An exposition with notes vpon the first Epistle to the Thessalonians\" (1619), Sclater claimed that scholastic philosophers occupied themselves with such pointless questions as whether angels \"did occupie a place; and so, whether many might be in one place at one time; and how many might sit on a Needles point; and six hundred such like needlesse points.\" \nHarrison proposes that the reason an English writer first introduced the \"needle’s point\" into a critique of medieval angelology is that it makes for a clever pun on \"needless point\".\n\nA letter written to \"The Times\" in 1975 identified a close parallel in a 14th-century mystical text, the \"Swester Katrei\":\n\nOther possibilities are that it is a surviving parody or self-parody, or a training topic in debating.\n\nIn Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, the conundrum of useless scholarly debates is linked to a similar question of whether angels are sexless or have a sex. \nSpanish jurist José Antonio Ramírez López (1908–1987) said about the story of the Byzantine empire: \"Everybody knows the idiotic and sometimes bloody discussions in that Empire on the sex of angels, about how many could perch at the same time on the head of a pin\".\n\nDorothy L. Sayers argued that the question was \"simply a debating exercise\" and that the answer \"usually adjudged correct\" was stated as, \"Angels are pure intelligences, not material, but limited, so that they have location in space, but not extension.\" Sayers compares the question to that of how many people's thoughts can be concentrated upon a particular pin at the same time. She concludes that infinitely many angels can be located on the head of a pin, since they do not occupy any space there:\n\nThe practical lesson to be drawn from the argument is not to use words like \"there\" in a loose, unscientific way, without specifying whether you mean \"located there\" or \"occupying space there.\"\n\nIn the humoristic magazine \"Annals of Improbable Research\", Anders Sandberg has presented a calculation based on theories of information physics and quantum gravity, establishing an upper bound of 8.6766×10 angels.\nComparing medieval superstition and modern science, George Bernard Shaw wrote in the introduction to the play \"Saint Joan\" that \"The medieval doctors of divinity who did not pretend to settle how many angels could dance on the point of a needle cut a very poor figure as far as romantic credulity is concerned beside the modern physicists who have settled to the billionth of a millimetre every movement and position in the dance of the electrons.\"\n\nIn the satirical novel \"Good Omens\" by Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett, the angel Aziraphale is said to be the only angel who could dance on the head of a pin, as he learned the gavotte in the 19th century. Also, in \"Carpe Jugulum\" by Terry Pratchett, Granny Weatherwax says the answer is 16 if it's an ordinary house pin.\n\n\"Weather Report Suite Part II: Let It Grow\", a song from the 1973 Grateful Dead album Wake of the Flood, includes the line \"As well to count the angels dancing on a pin.\"\n\nIn the comic book \"The Crow\" by James O'Barr, the main character asks this question to one of his victims before killing them, answering himself, \"Depends on the tune\".\n\nThe song \"Velodrome\" from Minnesota rapper Dessa's 2018 album Chime, references this question in the first verse asking, \"Aquinas, call on me/ How many angels on the/ Head of your pin?\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58056010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58056010", "title": "International Childfree Day", "text": "International Childfree Day\n\nInternational Childfree Day is celebrated annually on 1 August. It was created back in 1973 in the United States by the National Alliance for Optional Parenthood, at the time the National Organisation for Non-Parents (N.O.N.), under the name of Non-Parents' Day. The day is aimed at celebrating people who voluntarily choose not to have children and to foster acceptance of the childfree choice. It has also been described as \"a day of celebration worldwide for those couples who have faced criticism, ridicule, and rejection because they chose to be Childless by Choice.\"\n\nThe initiative, resurrected in 2013 by author Laura Carroll, also bestows annual Non Parent of the Year Award, which initially consisted of a male and a female, who would then parade down 5th Avenue in New York. As of 2018, the 'male' and 'female' categories were replaced by Childfree Person of the Year (a person of any gender identification) and Childfree Group of the Year (a couple, duo, trio, or a group, whether childfree romantic partners, social media groups, forum leaders, or website founders). Winners include Belgian writer Théophile de Giraud.\n\nOn Twitter, the hashtag used is #childfreeday.\n"}
{"id": "37866466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37866466", "title": "Juror misconduct", "text": "Juror misconduct\n\nJuror misconduct is when the law of the court is violated by a member of the jury while a court case is in progression or after it has reached a verdict.\n\nMisconduct can take several forms:\n\n\"An inclination of temperament or outlook; especially: a personal and sometimes unreasoned judgement\"\n\nAn example mentioned in Eltis's article \"Courts, Litigants and the Digital Age. Law, Ethics and Practice\" is a juror in Manchester who tweeted openly throughout a rape trial. She was found to be tweeting to her friends and asking them to poll whether they thought that the man being tried was guilty or not; whether he committed the rape or not. Another example was the case of Wardlaw v. State where a member of the jury, against the direct instructions by the judge to not use the Internet, looked up the definition of the illness that the individual on trial was stated to be suffering. This jury member also looked up symptoms and whether lying was an effect of suffering with this mental illness. The juror did learn that lying was in fact a \"symptom\"; however, she chose to gather this information during the discussion to find a verdict.\n\nWhether it is on a phone or using a computer, the Internet has become society’s source for everything. Regarding the place of social media within trials, the Internet has frequently been used by jury members to gain access to additional information about a certain mental illness, or a broader definition or they are outsourcing trial information. The legal system and both the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and both the 5th amendment and 6th amendment in the United States are built around the fact that everyone is required to have a fair trial free from bias. There have been multiple instances where certain cases required retrials because of bias on the part of one or more of the jury members. The Internet, while it is the primary source to find additional information and details about another individual, does not necessarily mean that the information it provides is necessarily correct or accurate. According to Bell’s article, \"Juror Misconduct and the Internet\", the use of the Internet within trials is not a new occurrence. It has been found in many cases, jurors who have searched for words unfamiliar to them, done extensive research, “engaged in at-home experiments, visited accident scenes, and otherwise obtained specialized knowledge.\n\nThese sources seem to revolve around cases which include members of the jury searching for additional information about a certain term or illness that is significant in the case at hand. Usually the main outlets are encyclopedic definitions or Wikipedia. The use of the Internet has also given jurors the ability to easily and readily access information that they may want to find out about. As stated in Bell's article, many jurors do not have the time during breaks to go out to a library and locate hard copy sources of information needed, thus making the Internet the primary source because all it requires is the simple push of a button.\n\nThis type of information includes access to different sources of information such as (1) “information about parties and witnesses” referring to information about a defendant’s past, background information on a specific employer or business, both publicized information and private information such as driving records, and tickets. All this information is easily accessible over the Internet and all this information was shared among jury members in specific cases. The main outlets usually include Twitter, Facebook, and online encyclopedias and dictionaries. This would overthrow the entire trial thus causing an automatic mistrial. 2 “Scientific and Technical Information”. This source of information refers to using the Internet to perform their own form of investigation on the side without actually having to go to the physical scene of the crime. This form of personal investigation may use Google Earth to acquire specific locations and specific fine points about a crime scene such as neighbourhoods, distances between certain homes and areas, etc.\n\nSince the Internet is frequently used to taint certain verdicts, many judges have put bans and limitations on jury members and their use of the Internet. When certain individuals are called to be on jury duty, they are told they are not allowed to communicate with other people who are not involved with the case, and they are told they are not allowed to use the Internet to research anything or to send out or receive any information that would compromise the integrity and fairness of the case at hand. This is definitely a challenge as the Internet is ever present in our society today. Another major problem, aside from the fact that a large majority of people have access to the Internet, is that the information individuals find may not be the entire truth, or may not be 100% accurate. When outside information is brought into a trial, it causes difficulties in ensuring no bias and a fair trial. Having outside information that is also inaccurate adds more bias and more unfairness to a trial.\n\nThis method is rare as it normally only occurs during cases with a heavy media influence and because it involves the constant watch of the actions of jury members individually to ensure they do not use the Internet or ruin the verdict and trial in any manner. This method can become problematic because jury members are only watched during the time when they are ready to deliberate amongst each other to reach a decision.\n\nThis method is slightly more effective because not only will it minimize the amount of jurors to stand during trial, therefore eliminating potential bias and use of outside sources, but it would be useful because it “would also systematically exclude younger jurors and those who otherwise have basic experience using computers and the Internet…”. According to Bell’s article, the main reason behind why outside research is often conducted is because of the desire to satisfy one's curiosity.\n\nIf a jury member is discovered to have brought in outside information, and juror misconduct is clearly present, then the jury member in question may actually be fined by the judge. This seems to be a deterrent to try and prevent future juror misconduct mishaps. It has been found to not be a successful deterrent because it solely shrinks the pool of individuals who wish to participate. A plausible way to prevent this misconduct from taking place is ensuring that the jury members, before the trial, understand completely “what constitutes research, their curiosity, and their perceived “moral duty” to render verdicts based on complete information”. Another successful deterrent is to show how using outside influence is negative, how the life of the individual on trial is in the hands of these chosen jury members (Bell, 94) and to take away their sources of internet, such as phones, before the actual trial commences.\n\nMistrials are the common response in cases where juror misconduct has occurred. Mistrials can be costly and thus will be avoided if possible. When mistrials are seen as a solution, they are compared to wasted assets “when it could have easily been avoided”. If the possibility presents itself, according to Eltis’s article, simply dismissing the misconduct as unacceptable would be less destructive than a mistrial. Dismissing this misconduct will be destructive since it would not cause the trial to be fair. Overall, it is felt that a mistrial is quite a harsh decision, especially since Internet use by a juror is considered “impossible to control”.\n\nUnder the common law, jurors could be charged with contempt of court if they were found to have carried out independent research into the case they were trying. Proving that a juror was guilty of a contempt required proof that she had acted contrary to a judicial order (e.g. to refrain from carrying out research online). This created uncertainty and possible inconsistency, as judicial directions to jurors could vary. The Law Commission of England & Wales felt it would be better to create a separate criminal offence, as this would make the law clearer for jurors. The Law Commission also felt that the creation of a new offence would give jurors suspected of misconduct greater due process protections, as contempt was tried according to summary court procedure, whereas the proposed offence would be an indictable offence, and therefore subject to the due process protections of a full jury trial.\n\nThe Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 brought these proposals into law. As Crosby explains:The Act makes it an offence for jurors to ‘research the case during the trial period’, to ‘disclose [improper] information to another member of the jury during the trial period’, and to engage in ‘conduct from which it may reasonably be concluded that the [juror] intends to try the issue otherwise than on the basis of the evidence presented in the proceedings on the issue’. Those found guilty of one of the new offences will be liable to imprisonment for up to two years, and will be disqualified from further service for a decade. What distinguishes these new offences from the existing option of using contempt proceedings is the fact jurors would now be proceeded against on indictment: that they would be tried by their peers for alleged misconduct. This represents a significant change in juror management techniques, as it is probable that criminal trial jurors accused of misconduct have never been tried in this way.Former jurors found guilty of one of the new offences will be disqualified from jury service for ten years, even if they have been fined rather than imprisoned. Such disqualifications had previously required: a sentence of imprisonment; a community order; a community rehabilitation order; a community punishment order; a community punishment and rehabilitation order; a drug treatment and testing order; or a drug abstinence order. The 2015 Act introduces for the first time the principle that a fine may also be sufficient for temporary juror disqualification.\n\n"}
{"id": "35853326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35853326", "title": "Lumen Veritatis", "text": "Lumen Veritatis\n\nLumen Veritatis is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the St. Thomas Aquinas Institute of Theology and the Aristotelian-Thomistic Institute of Philosophy in Brazil. Its covers the study of theology and philosophy in a Thomistic perspective in a critical dialogue with other philosophical schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "1283646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283646", "title": "Masao Abe", "text": "Masao Abe\n\nMasao Abe was a Japanese academic in comparative religion (concluding as emeritus professor at Nara University), and a Buddhist philosopher. His mature views were developed within the Kyoto School of philosophy founded by Kitaro Nishida. Hence his interest in, and ability to compare and contrast, Buddhism and Christianity. \"Since the death of D. T. Suzuki in 1966, Masao Abe has served as the main representative of Zen Buddhism in Europe and North America.\"\n\nAbe's father was a medical doctor, his mother a practitioner of Pure Land Jōdo Shinshū Buddhism, from whom his early faith in Amida Buddha. Born in Osaka, Abe was the third of six children. His higher education began at Osaka Municipal University, where he studied Economics and Law. For four years during the late 1930s he worked in a business office at a private trading company in neighboring Kobe. Yet Abe was seriously troubled by an ongoing personal crisis, which stemmed from the perceived conflict: rationality versus faith in the Amida of Pure Land Buddhism. This conflict he thought he could conclusively resolve in favor of faith through the study of philosophy, by which he could overcome objections posed by reason.\n\nAbe entered Kyoto University in April 1942. It was a courageous step, as he changed career direction in mid-stream, exceptional in Japanese life, yet even more so considering the current political situation. He studied Western philosophy under Hajime Tanabe. Also, Abe studied Zen under the direction of Shin'ichi Hisamatsu, a philosophy professor at Kyoto University and a lay practitioner of the Rinzai school. Guided by Hisamatsu, Abe worked with others to revitalize Buddhist youth organization at Kyoto University throughout the 1940s. Professor Hisamatsu challenged Abe's quasi-theistic faith in Amida Buddha; instead Hisamatsu became for Abe a vital religious model, of a rigorous adherent of Sunyata (which may be called \"emptiness\") as an ultimate reality. In consequence, Abe came to understand Amida Buddha as a sacred fiction.\n\nAbe's spiritual progression under Hisamatsu was complex and dialectical. Hisamatsu taught that the revered image of Amida Buddha was but a stage on the way to realizing a \"formless\" Buddha, whereby one could awaken to one's True Self. Nonetheless Abe first reacted to Hisamatsu by coming to discover and experience an infinite grace from the Amida Buddha. Abe's profound quest continued. In December 1951, during a group Zen sitting at the Reiun Temple of the Myōshin-ji in Kyoto, Abe personally challenged Hisamatsu, screaming to him, \"Is that the True Self?\" Hisamatsu replied, \"That's the True Self.\" Thereafter Abe entered an intense phase and struggled with the view that \"It's all a lie!\" (which he cried out while dousing himself with a bucket of ice water at a subsequent group sitting). He agonized over the seeming proximity of the Deity and the devil, and with his own complicity. Finally, Abe told Hisamatsu, \"I just cannot find any place where I can stand.\" Hisamatsu told him, \"Stand right at that place where there is nowhere to stand.\"\n\nAlong this way Abe confronted, and managed to distinguish and overcome, a \"positive nihilism\" associated with the secular, irreligious philosopher Frederich Nietzsche. Reflecting on his life development, Abe acknowledged the crucial role of Shin'ichi Hisamatsu in his spiritual formation. \"Without him I am not what I am.\"\n\nAmong Abe's chief academic influences would be the aforementioned Shin'ichi Hisamatsu (1889–1980) and also Keiji Nishitani (1900–1990), as well as Hajime Tanabe (1885–1962), key professors for Abe at Kyoto University, and Kitaro Nishida (1870–1945), teacher of Hisamatsu and Nishitani, and teacher of his own successor Tanabe. Abe follows Nishida's Kyoto school of philosophy. During the 1950s and early 1960s Abe was in communication with the well-known Buddhist scholar Daisetz Teitaro Suzuki (1870–1966), e.g., at Columbia University in New York City; Abe is said to have later assumed Suzuki's rôle as academic transmitter of Buddhism. Also in New York City, at the Union Theological Seminary, Abe encountered the Christian professors and teachers Paul Tillich (1886–1965) and Reinhold Niebuhr (1892–1971).\n\nFrom 1952 to 1980, Abe served as professor of philosophy at Nara University. Before he had been professor at Kyoto Women's College (1946–1948) and Otani University (1948–1950). Thereafter, while at Nara, Abe was concurrently professor at Kyoto University from 1955 to 1958, and from 1964-1980 professor at Hana Zono University. Also in the mid-1950s he studied Christian theology in New York City at the Union Theological Seminary and at Columbia University. Then in 1980 he left Nara University and moved to California, to the Department of Religion at the Claremont Graduate School, and later in 1983 to the University of Hawaii where he served as Professor of Japanese Philosophy. From 1965 Abe participated and made presentations at many universities and colleges throughout the U.S.A. while serving as a visiting professor in residence (with his wife Ikuko). During these years Abe shared in the Buddhist-Christian dialogue while at universities in Europe.\n\nAbe contributed to and led many conferences on comparative religion, Buddhism, and related subjects. He was perennially involved with: the East-West Philosophers' Conference at the University of Hawaii; and the \"International Buddhist-Christian Theological Encounter\" (the \"Abe-Cobb group\") which, along with Professor John B. Cobb, Jr., Abe directed.\n\nIn addition to his contributions of creative insight and scholarship, Masao Abe also brought to interfaith meetings a serenity and a quiet charm. Here, for example, his fellow academic Arvind Sharma recalls a moment with Abe at a conference in 1986:\n\nAbe broke into a smile. I still remember it vividly because it had a compelling ineffable quality about it. It was so totally unencumbered. It seemed curiously and totally detached from the environment, a happening complete in itself, with a childlike simplicity beguiling in its guilelessness. When his face assumed its normal expression, one was left with the feeling of something very precious—found fleetingly and then lost irretrievably—until he smiled again.\n\nApparently, the source of this \"giving gift\" had passed through spiritual trials. Abe earlier was required to walk down a path of terrifying dread, and to make a leap into the abyss, in order to find \"that place where there is nowhere to stand.\"\n\nAbe sought to advance the interreligious dialogue while serving in his widespread teaching assignments; he led many seminars on Buddhism and western religions, particularly Christianity. A frequent procedure followed by the convened representatives of different religions was: first to attempt to understand the other's faith perspective from the inside (without compromising each one's own faith), to the extent of being able to \"see\" how things may look from the other's point of view; second, there would follow a period during which each would \"return\" to their own faith; thereafter, a more fruitful discussion might commence. Abe further sought to encourage dialogue through his various philosophical and spiritual writings.\n\nGenerally Abe has received praise for his efforts. Professor Jürgen Moltmann found that the Buddhist scholar's presentation was profound and precise concerning a central topic of Christian theology. \"Here reciprocal understanding is not only furthered, but Christianity and Buddhism in their immiscible difference are led into a common reality. In light of this common reality, perhaps a mutual transformation does not yet begin, but certainly a reciprocal liking and opening for each other.\"\n\nIn 1983 Professor Abe disclosed aspects of his inner motivation. He wrote that, in addition to his abiding interest in Buddhism, he was profoundly concerned with the spiritual foundation for all of \"humanity in a global age. To provide this foundation, a comparative and dialogical study of Buddhism and Western thought, Christianity included, is absolutely necessary.\"\n\n\nBy realization through Zen practice of the Buddhist teaching of the impermanence of all things (Skt: anitya) (Jpn: mujō), we come to experience that we are living-dying at each and every moment. \"If we grasp our lives not objectively from without but subjectively from within, we are not moving from life to death but are in the midst of this process of living-dying.\" By a careful reading of Dōgen (1200–1253) and a watchful understanding of the inner sense of time, Abe learns and teaches how the objectification of time can alienate us from our own experience of its impermanence.\n\nDōgen puzzled over a seeming contradiction in Buddhism. All sentient beings are originally enlightened, yet Buddhist teachings \"arouse the longing for enlightenment\" in those who hear it. If we do religious practice we may become enlightened due to an \"acquired awakening\" yet \"original awakening\" is ours \"before our parents were born\". Dōgen rejects as naturalistic fallacy a theory of \"original awakening\" that would equate a given human self-consciousness with genuine enlightenment. Also Dōgen rejects the idea that practice is a means to the goal of enlightenment. The epistemological process of enlightenment is undertaken by zen practice, but the process itself becomes enlightenment, i.e., the path is the way of awakening. Abe quotes Dōgen: \"In the Buddha Dharma, practice and realization are identical. [O]ne's initial negotiating of the Way in itself is the whole of original realization. Thus, even while directed to practice, one is told not to anticipate a realization apart from practice, because practice points directly to original realization.\"\n\nInstead of waiting for the time of awakening while sitting in meditation, one is \"directly knowing temporal conditions\" for the \"time has already arrived\". \"There is no time that is not the right time.\" \"Dōgen denies continuity of time and emphasizes the independence of each point of time... .\" Prof. Abe then quotes Dōgen to illustrate:\n\n\"[I]t being an established teaching of Buddhism not to speak of life becoming death, Buddhism speaks of the unborn. It being a confirmed Buddhist teaching that death does not become life, it speaks of non-extinction. Life is a stage of time and death is a stage of time, like, for example, winter and spring. We do not suppose that winter becomes spring, or say that spring becomes summer.\"\n\nSubjectively from within, \"the process of our living-dying [is] being without beginning and without end.\" For Buddhists, there is no beginning of the universe (no creation), and there is no end (no last judgment). \"We must realize the beginninglessness and endlessness of samsara, that is, the transmigration of living-dying.\" Prof. Abe mentions several experiences:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "257193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=257193", "title": "Maurice Blanchot", "text": "Maurice Blanchot\n\nMaurice Blanchot (; ; 22 September 1907 – 20 February 2003) was a French writer, philosopher, and literary theorist. His work had a strong influence on post-structuralist philosophers such as Gilles Deleuze, Michel Foucault, and Jacques Derrida.\n\nLittle was known until recently about much of Blanchot's life, and he long remained one of the most mysterious figures of contemporary literature.\n\nBlanchot was born in the village of Quain (Saône-et-Loire) on 22 September 1907. Blanchot studied philosophy at the University of Strasbourg, where he became a close friend of the Lithuanian-born French Jewish phenomenologist, Emmanuel Levinas. He then embarked on a career as a political journalist in Paris. From 1932 to 1940 he was editor of the mainstream, conservative daily the \"Journal des débats\". Early in the 1930s he contributed to a series of radical nationalist magazines, while also serving as editor of the fiercely anti-German daily \"Le rempart\" in 1933 and as editor of Paul Lévy's anti-Nazi polemical weekly \"Aux écoutes\". In 1936 and 1937 he also contributed to the far right monthly \"Combat\" and to the nationalist-syndicalist daily \"L'Insurgé\", which eventually ceased publication – largely as a result of Blanchot's intervention – because of the anti-semitism of some of its contributors. There is no dispute that Blanchot was nevertheless the author of a series of violently polemical articles attacking the government of the day and its confidence in the politics of the League of Nations, and warned persistently against the threat to peace in Europe posed by Nazi Germany.\n\nIn December 1940, he met Georges Bataille, who had written strong anti-fascist articles in the thirties, and who would remain a close friend until his death in 1962. Blanchot worked in Paris during the Nazi occupation. In order to support his family, he continued to work as a book reviewer for the \"Journal des débats\" from 1941 to 1944, writing for instance about such figures as Sartre and Camus, Bataille and Michaux, Mallarmé and Duras for a putatively Pétainist readership. In these reviews he laid the foundations for later French critical thinking, by examining the ambiguous rhetorical nature of language, and the irreducibility of the written word to notions of truth or falsity. He refused the editorship of the collaborationist \"Nouvelle Revue Française\", for which, as part of an elaborate ploy, he had been suggested by Jean Paulhan. He remained a bitter opponent of the fascist, anti-semitic novelist and journalist Robert Brasillach, who was the principal leader of the pro-Nazi collaborationist movement, and was active in the Resistance. In June 1944, Blanchot was almost executed by a Nazi firing squad (as recounted in his text \"The Instant of My Death\").\n\nAfter the war, Blanchot began working only as a novelist and literary critic. In 1947, Blanchot left Paris for the secluded village of Èze in the south of France, where he spent the next decade of his life. Like Sartre and other French intellectuals of the era, Blanchot avoided the academy as a means of livelihood, instead relying on his pen. Importantly, from 1953 to 1968, he published regularly in \"Nouvelle Revue Française\". At the same time, he began a lifestyle of relative isolation, often not seeing close friends (like Levinas) for years, while continuing to write lengthy letters to them. Part of the reason for his self-imposed isolation (and only part of it – his isolation was closely connected to his writing and is often featured among his characters) was the fact that, for most of his life, Blanchot suffered from poor health.\n\nBlanchot's political activities after the war shifted to the left. He is widely credited with being one of the main authors of the important \"Manifesto of the 121\", named after the number of its signatories, who included Jean-Paul Sartre, Robert Antelme, Alain Robbe-Grillet, Marguerite Duras, René Char, Henri Lefebvre, Alain Resnais, Simone Signoret and others, which supported the rights of conscripts to refuse the draft in Algeria. The manifesto was crucial to the intellectual response to the war.\n\nIn May 1968, Blanchot once again emerged from personal obscurity, in support of the student protests. It was his sole public appearance after the war. Yet for fifty years he remained a consistent champion of modern literature and its tradition in French letters. During the later years of his life, he repeatedly wrote against the intellectual attraction to fascism, and notably against Heidegger's post-war silence over the Holocaust.\n\nBlanchot wrote more than thirty works of fiction, literary criticism, and philosophy. Up to the 1970s, he worked continually in his writing to break the barriers between what are generally perceived as different \"genres\" or \"tendencies\", and much of his later work moves freely between narration and philosophical investigation.\n\nIn 1983, Blanchot published \"La Communauté inavouable\" (\"The Unavowable Community\"). This work inspired \"The Inoperative Community\" (1986), Jean-Luc Nancy's attempt to approach community in a non-religious, non-utilitarian and un-political exegesis.\n\nHe died on 20 February 2003 in Le Mesnil-Saint-Denis, Yvelines, France.\n\nBlanchot's work is not a coherent, all-encompassing 'theory', since it is a work founded on paradox and impossibility. The thread running through all his writing is the constant engagement with the 'question of literature', a simultaneous enactment and interrogation of the profoundly strange experience of writing. For Blanchot, 'literature begins at the moment when literature becomes a question' (\"Literature and the Right to Death\").\n\nBlanchot draws on the work of the symbolist poet Stéphane Mallarmé and the negative of the Hegelian dialectic in formulating his conception of literary language as anti-realist and distinct from everyday experience. 'I say flower,' Mallarmé writes in \"Poetry in Crisis\", 'and outside the oblivion to which my voice relegates any shape, insofar as it is something other than the calyx, there arises musically, as the very idea and delicate, the one absent from every bouquet.'\n\nIn the everyday use of language, words are the vehicles of ideas. The word 'flower' means flower that refers to flowers in the world. No doubt it is possible to read literature in this way, but literature is more than this everyday use of language. For in literature 'flower' does not just mean flower but many things, and it can only do so because the word is independent from what it signifies. This independence, which is passed over in the everyday use of language, is the negativity at the heart of language. The word means something because it negates the physical reality of the thing. Only in this way can the idea arise. The absence of the thing is made good by the presence of the idea. What the everyday use of language steps over to make use of the idea, and what literature remains fascinated by, is the absence of the physical materiality of thing, annihilated from its existence. Literary language, therefore, is a double negation, both of the thing and the idea. It is in this space that literature becomes possible where words take on a strange and mysterious reality of their own, and where also meaning and reference remain allusive and ambiguous.\n\nBlanchot's best-known fictional works are \"Thomas l'Obscur\" (\"Thomas the Obscure\"), an unsettling \"récit\" (\"[\"récit\"] is not the narration of an event, but that event itself, the approach to that event, the place where that event is made to happen\") about the experience of reading and loss; \"Death Sentence\"; \"Aminadab\" and \"The Most High\" (about a bureaucrat in a totalitarian state). His central theoretical works are \"Literature and the Right to Death\" (in \"The Work of Fire\" and \"The Gaze of Orpheus\"), \"The Space of Literature\", \"The Infinite Conversation\", and \"The Writing of the Disaster\".\n\nBlanchot engages with Heidegger on the question of the philosopher's death, showing how literature and death are both experienced as anonymous passivity, an experience that Blanchot variously refers to as \"the Neutral\" (\"le neutre\"). Unlike Heidegger, Blanchot rejects the possibility of an authentic relation to death, because he rejects the possibility of death, that is to say of the individual's experience of death. He thus rejects, in total, the possibility of understanding and \"properly\" engaging with it; and this resonates with Levinas' take too. Blanchot reverses Heidegger's position on death as the \"possibility of the absolute impossibility\" of Dasein, instead viewing death as the \"impossibility of every possibility\".\n\nBlanchot also draws heavily from Franz Kafka, and his fictional work (like his theoretical work) is shot through with an engagement with Kafka's writing.\n\nBlanchot's work was also strongly influenced by his friends Georges Bataille and Emmanuel Levinas. Blanchot's later work in particular is influenced by Levinasian ethics and the question of responsibility to the Other. On the other hand, Blanchot's own literary works, like the famous \"Thomas the Obscure\", heavily influenced Levinas's and Bataille's ideas about the possibility that our vision of reality is blurred because of the use of words (thus making everything you perceive automatically as abstract as words are). This search for the 'real' reality is illustrated by the works of Paul Celan and Stéphane Mallarmé.\n\nThe main intellectual biography of Blanchot is by Christophe Bident: \"Maurice Blanchot, partenaire invisible\".\n\n\n\nMany of Blanchot's principal translators into English established reputations as prose stylists and poets in their own right; some of the more well-known include Lydia Davis, Paul Auster, and Pierre Joris.\n\n"}
{"id": "693185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=693185", "title": "Monotonicity of entailment", "text": "Monotonicity of entailment\n\nMonotonicity of entailment is a property of many logical systems that states that the hypotheses of any derived fact may be freely extended with additional assumptions. In sequent calculi this property can be captured by an inference rule called weakening, or sometimes thinning, and in such systems one may say that entailment is monotone if and only if the rule is admissible. Logical systems with this property are occasionally called \"monotonic logics\" in order to differentiate them from non-monotonic logics.\n\nTo illustrate, consider the natural deduction sequent:\n\nΓ formula_1 C\n\nThat is, on the basis of a list of assumptions Γ, one can prove C. Weakening, by adding an assumption A, allows one to conclude:\n\nΓ, A formula_1 C\n\nFor example, the syllogism \"All men are mortal. Socrates is a man. Therefore Socrates is mortal.\" can be weakened by adding a premise: \"All men are mortal. Socrates is a man. Cows produce milk. Therefore Socrates is mortal.\" The validity of the original conclusion is not changed by the addition of premises.\n\nIn most logics, weakening is either an inference rule or a metatheorem if the logic doesn't have an explicit rule. Notable exceptions are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12817220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12817220", "title": "Monster Study", "text": "Monster Study\n\nThe Monster Study was a stuttering experiment performed on 22 orphan children in Davenport, Iowa in 1939. It was conducted by Wendell Johnson at the University of Iowa. Graduate student Mary Tudor conducted the experiment under Johnson's supervision. Half of the children received positive speech therapy, praising the fluency of their speech, and the other half, negative speech therapy, belittling the children for speech imperfections. Many of the normal speaking orphan children who received negative therapy in the experiment suffered negative psychological effects, and some retained speech problems for the rest of their lives.\n\nIt was dubbed the \"Monster Study\" as some of Johnson's peers were horrified that he would experiment on orphan children to confirm a hypothesis. The experiment was kept hidden for fear Johnson's reputation would be tarnished in the wake of human experiments conducted by the Nazis during World War II. Because the results of the study were never published in any peer-reviewed journal, Tudor's thesis is the only official record of the details of the experiment.\n\nThe University of Iowa publicly apologized for the Monster Study in 2001. However, Patricia Zebrowski, University of Iowa assistant professor of speech pathology and audiology notes that the data that resulted from the experiment is the \"largest collection of scientific information\" on the phenomenon of stuttering and that Johnson's work was the first to discuss the importance of the stutterer's thoughts, attitudes, beliefs, and feelings and continues to influence views on stuttering greatly. \n\nThe research began with selection of twenty-two subjects from a veterans' orphanage in Iowa. None were told the intent of her research, and they believed that they were to receive speech therapy. Tudor was trying to induce stuttering in healthy children and to see whether telling stutterers that their speech was fine would produce a change. Included among the twenty-two subjects were ten orphans whom teachers and matrons had marked as stutterers before the study began. Tudor and five other graduate students who agreed to serve as judges listened to each of the children speak, graded them on a scale from 1 (poor) to 5 (fluent) and concurred with the school's assessment. Five were assigned to Group IA, the experimental set, and would be told that their speech was fine. The five in Group IB, the control group, would be told that their speech is \"as bad as people say\".\n\nThe remaining 12 children were chosen at random from the population of normally fluent orphans. Six of these were assigned to IIA. These children, ranging in age from 5 to 15, were to be told that their speech was not normal at all, that they were beginning to stutter and that they must correct this immediately. The final six children in Group IIB, similar in age to those in IIA, were normal speakers who were to be treated as such and given compliments on their nice enunciation.\n\nOn the first visit, Tudor tested each child's I.Q. and identified whether they were left-handed or right-handed. A popular theory at the time held that stuttering was caused by a cerebral imbalance. If, for example, a person was born left-handed but was using their right hand, their nerve impulses would misfire, affecting their speech. Johnson did not believe the theory, but still suggested Tudor test each child's handedness. She had them draw on chalkboards and squeeze the bulb of the dynamometer. Most were right-handed, but left-handed children were present in all the groups. There was no correlation between handedness and speech in the subjects. During this period, they assigned numbers to the children, such as \"Case No 15 Experimental Group IIA...\"\n\nThe experimental period lasted from January until late May 1939, and the actual intervention consisted of Tudor driving to Davenport from Iowa City every few weeks and talking with each child for about 45 minutes. She followed an agreed-upon script. In her dissertation, she reported that she talked to the stuttering youngsters who were going to be told that they did not stutter. She said to them, in part, \"You'll outgrow [the stuttering], and you will be able to speak even much better than you are speaking now... Pay no attention to what others say about your speaking ability for undoubtedly they do not realize that this is only a phase.\"\n\nTo the non-stuttering youngsters in IIA, who were to be branded stutterers, she said: \"The staff has come to the conclusion that you have a great deal of trouble with your speech… You have many of the symptoms of a child who is beginning to stutter. You must try to stop yourself immediately. Use your will power… Do anything to keep from stuttering… Don't ever speak unless you can do it right. You see how [the name of a child in the institution who stuttered severely] stutters, don't you? Well, he undoubtedly started this very same way.\"\n\nThe children in IIA responded immediately. After her second session with 5-year-old Norma Jean Pugh, Tudor wrote, \"It was very difficult to get her to speak, although she spoke very freely the month before.\" Another in the group, 9-year-old Betty Romp, \"practically refuses to talk,\" a researcher wrote in his final evaluation. \"Held hand or arm over eyes most of the time.\" Hazel Potter, 15, the oldest in her group, became \"much more conscious of herself, and she talked less,\" Tudor noted. Potter also began to interject and to snap her fingers in frustration. She was asked why she said 'a' so much. \"Because I'm afraid I can't say the next word.\" \"Why did you snap your fingers?\" \"Because I was afraid I was going to say 'a.'\"\n\nAll the children's schoolwork fell off. One of the boys began refusing to recite in class. The other, eleven-year-old Clarence Fifer, started anxiously correcting himself. \"He stopped and told me he was going to have trouble on words before he said them,\" Tudor reported. She asked him how he knew. He said that the sound \"wouldn't come out. Feels like it's stuck in there.\"\n\nThe sixth orphan, Mary Korlaske, a 12-year-old, grew withdrawn and fractious. During their sessions, Tudor asked whether her best friend knew about her 'stuttering,' Korlaske muttered, \"No.\" \"Why not?\" Korlaske shuffled her feet. \"I hardly ever talk to her.\" Two years later, she ran away from the orphanage and eventually ended up at the rougher Industrial School for Girls — simultaneously escaping her human experimentation.\n\nMary Tudor herself wasn't untouched. Three times after her experiment had officially ended she returned to the orphanage to voluntarily provide follow-up care. She told the IIA children that they didn't stutter after all. The impact, however well-meaning, was questionable. She wrote to Johnson about the orphans in a slightly defensive letter dated April 22, 1940, \"I believe that in time they … will recover, but we certainly made a definite impression on them.\"\n\nThe results of the study were freely available in the library of the University of Iowa, but Johnson did not seek publication of the results. The experiment became national news in the wake of a series of articles conducted by an investigative reporter at the \"San Jose Mercury News\" in 2001, and a book titled \"Ethics: A Case Study from Fluency\" was written to provide an impartial scientific evaluation. The panel of authors in the book consists mostly of speech pathologists who fail to reach any consensus on either the ethical ramifications or scientific consequences of the Monster Study. Richard Schwartz concludes in Chapter 6 of the book that the Monster Study \"was unfortunate in Tudor and Johnson's lack of regard for the potential harm to the children who participated and in their selection of institutionalized children simply because they were easily available. The deception and the apparent lack of debriefing were also not justifiable.\" Other authors concur claiming the orphan experiment was not within the ethical boundaries of acceptable research. Others, however, felt that the ethical standards in 1939 were different from those used today. Some felt the study was poorly designed and executed by Tudor, and as a result the data offered no proof of Johnson's subsequent hypothesis that \"stuttering begins, not in the child's mouth but in the parent's ear\" -- i.e., that it is the well-meaning parent's effort to help the child avoid what the parent has labeled \"stuttering\" (but is in fact within the range of normal speech) that contributes to what ultimately becomes the problem diagnosed as stuttering. The Monster Study name may come from this negative reception. \n\nOn 17 August 2007, six of the orphan children were awarded a total of $925,000 by the State of Iowa for lifelong psychological and emotional scars caused by six months of torment during the University of Iowa experiment. The study learned that although none of the children became stutterers, some became self-conscious and reluctant to speak. A spokesman for the University of Iowa called the experiment \"regrettable\" and added: \"This is a study that should never be considered defensible in any era. In no way would I ever think of defending this study. In no way. It’s more than unfortunate.\" Before her death, Mary Tudor expressed deep regret about her role in the Monster Study and maintained that Wendell Johnson should have done more to reverse the negative effects on the orphan children's speech. Despite Wendell Johnson's role in the creation of the Monster Study, Tudor still felt she had made many positive contributions to speech pathology and stuttering research..\n\nThe lawsuit was an outgrowth of a \"San Jose Mercury News\" article in 2001 conducted by an investigative reporter.\n\nThe article revealed that several of the orphans had long-lasting psychological effects stemming from the experiment. The state tried unsuccessfully to have the lawsuit dismissed but in September 2005, the Iowa's Supreme Court justices agreed with a lower court in rejecting the state's claim of immunity and petition for dismissal.\n\nMany of the orphans testified that they were harmed by the \"Monster Study\" but outside of Mary Tudor, who testified in a deposition on November 19, 2002, there were no actual eyewitnesses to the events. The advanced age of the three surviving former orphans on the plaintiff's side helped expedite a settlement with the state. The Iowa attorney general's office said in a press release on August 17, 2007, that the settlement of $925,000 was fair and appropriate, although the state refused to accept liability for any potential harm caused to the orphans.\n\n\"For the plaintiffs, we hope and believe it will help provide closure relating to experiences from long ago and to memories going back almost 70 years. For all parties, it ends long-running, difficult and costly litigation that only would have run up more expenses and delayed resolution to plaintiffs who are in their seventies and eighties.\" (DM Register)\n\nDespite the settlement, the debate remains contentious over what harm, if any, the Monster Study caused the orphan children. [Nicholas Johnson], the son of the late Wendell Johnson, has vehemently defended his father. He and some speech pathologists have argued that Wendell Johnson did not intend to harm the orphan children and that none of the orphans were actually diagnosed as \"stutterers\" at the end of the experiment. Other speech pathologists have condemned the experiment and said that the orphans' speech and behavior was adversely affected by the negative conditioning they received. Letters between Mary Tudor and Wendell Johnson that were written shortly after the experiment ended showed that the children's speech had deteriorated significantly. Mary Tudor returned to the orphanage three times to try to reverse the negative effects caused by the experiment but lamented the fact that she was unable to provide enough positive therapy to reverse the deleterious effects. (Ethics and Orphans. \"San Jose Mercury News\").\n\nToday, the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association prohibits experimentation on children when there exists a significant chance of causing lasting harmful consequences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1831880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1831880", "title": "Naassene Fragment", "text": "Naassene Fragment\n\nThe Naassene Fragment is a fragmentary text that survives in no document except a quotation in the early third century encyclopedia of heresies by Hippolytus of Rome, \"Refutation of All Heresies\" (5.7.2-9). It may be considered part of the New Testament apocryphal tradition. The Naassenes (from Hebrew \"na'asch\", snake) were a Gnostic Ophite sect. The fragmentary quotation is given by Hippolytus as expressing the fundamental ideas of the Naassene Ophites, and possibly of all Gnostics.\n\nTranslation by G.R.S. Mead:\nFirst [was there] Mind the Generative Law of All;\nSecond to the Firstborn was Liquid Chaos; \nThird Soul through toil received the Law. \nWherefore, with a deer's form surrounding her, \nShe labours at her task beneath Death's rule. \nNow, holding sway, she sees the Light; \nAnd now, cast into piteous plight, she weeps; \nNow she weeps, and now rejoices; \nNow she weeps, and now is judged; \nNow is judged, and now she dieth; \nNow is born, with no way out for her; in misery \nShe enters in her wandering the labyrinth of ills. And Jesus said: O Father, see! [Behold] the struggle still of ills on earth!\nFar from Thy Breath away she wanders!\nShe seeks to flee the bitter Chaos,\nAnd knows not how she shall pass through.\nWherefore, send me, O Father!\nSeals in my hands, I will descend;\nThrough Æons universal will I make a Path;\nThrough Mysteries all I'll open up a Way!\nAnd Forms of Gods will I display;\nThe secrets of the Holy Path I will hand on,\nAnd call them \"Gnosis.\"\n\nThe following is Adolf von Harnack's paraphrase (\"SBA\", 1902, pp. 542 sqq.):\n\nThe generating principle of the universe, the first in order, was 'reason'; but the second principle was the firstbom's emitted 'chaos'; and the third principle was received by the soul, which descends from both. Therefore, fashioned like a trembling deer, the soul wrests herself free from the grip of death (strengthening itself by such exertions). Now she wins the mastery and sees the light; now plunged into wo, she weeps; again, in the depths of evil, the unhappy one becomes ensnared in a maze. Then spake Jesus: \"behold, O Father! this being, pursued by ills, roams astray upon earth, far from thy breath. It seeks to escape bitter chaos, and knows not whither to find escape. Therefore, send me, O Father, with the seals in my hand will I descend: all eons will I traverse, all mysteries reveal, and show the forms of the gods. I will deliver the secret of the holy way, and call it Gnosis.\"\n\nHere, reason and chaos, the intelligent and the material world, stand opposed; and between them is the human soul, belonging to both spheres, yet striving toward the higher and the spiritual. The soul is unable to ascend by its own power; therefore, a heavenly being, concordant with the will of the supreme principle, descends into the human world and redeems the soul by showing it the way through the spheres which sunder it from the world divine. It is not mere thirst for knowledge that impels the Gnostics, but essentially a concern of salvation; because the Gnostic's salvation depends on the possession of the \"Gnosis\" respecting these things.\n\nLike Gnosis at large, the Ophites teach the existence of a Supreme Being, standing infinitely high above the visible world; qualified as purely spiritual, the primal basis of all things, the starting-point of the cosmic process. His names are, Father of the Universe, First Man, the \"Uncreated,\" the \"Unspeakable,\" the \"Unapproachable God.\" He is self-evolving, and thus becomes the source of all being. The first products of this spontaneous evolution still belong to the purely spiritual spheres. The Ophitic theology tends to separate this supreme God into an ever-increasing number of separate entities. In the aforesaid Hymn, only the Son is mentioned beside the Father; but a tetrad occurs among the Ophites of Irenaeus and the Naassenes; an entire decad among the \"Gnostici Barbelo\"; while the Nag Hammadi writings disclose a countless host of higher beings. The Supreme Being's mode of evolution is set forth, now as a generative, again as a psychologic process; and frequently the two ideas are combined. Some pagan mythology lies obviously at the root of the matter; which accounts also for their syzygial views; for, in part at least, the Ophites aimed to interpret the ancient myths as psychologic processes. Over against the Supreme Being stands chaos, the material principle. Yet there is not here a sharp dualism. In the Hymn, the phrase \"the firstborn's emitted chaos\" implies that it is derived from a higher being. In only very few instances is chaos an evil power, an active principle. It is not the existence of chaos which contradicts perfection; but rather the mixture of luminous parts with material elements. This mixture, in a word, is the great calamity, the loss that must be retrieved through redemption. How did this mixture come to pass? The Hymn designates the soul, the principle of this compound, as the common product of mind and chaos. Such is also the theory of the Perates and Sethians, mentioned by Hippolytus. These sects most nearly approach the dualistic scheme, yet the latter is not distinctly defined. In Justin, also, dualism is diminished.\n\n"}
{"id": "2416673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2416673", "title": "Nazi gold", "text": "Nazi gold\n\nNazi gold (, \"stolen gold\") is gold allegedly transferred by Nazi Germany to overseas banks during World War II. The regime is believed to have executed a policy of looting the assets of its victims to finance the war, collecting the looted assets in central depositories. The occasional transfer of gold in return for currency took place in collusion with many individual collaborative institutions. The precise identities of those institutions, as well as the exact extent of the transactions, remain unclear.\n\nThe present whereabouts of Nazi gold that disappeared into European banking institutions in 1945 has been the subject of several books, conspiracy theories, and a failed civil suit brought in January 2000 against the Vatican Bank, the Franciscan Order, and other defendants.\n\nThe draining of Germany's gold and foreign exchange reserves inhibited the acquisition of materiel, and the Nazi economy, focused on militarisation, could not afford to deplete the means to procure foreign machinery and parts. Nonetheless, towards the end of the 1930s, Germany's foreign reserves were unsustainably low. By 1939, Germany had defaulted upon its foreign loans and most of its trade relied upon command economy barter.\n\nHowever, this tendency towards autarkic conservation of foreign reserves concealed a trend of expanding official reserves, which occurred through looting assets from annexed Austria, occupied Czechoslovakia, and Nazi-governed Danzig.<ref name=\"T 236/931\">UK Treasury correspondence, T 236/931.</ref> It is believed that these three sources boosted German official gold reserves by US $71m between 1937 and 1939. To mask the acquisition, the Reichsbank understated its official reserves in 1939 by $40m relative to the Bank of England's estimates.\n\nDuring the war, Nazi Germany continued the practice on a much larger scale. Germany expropriated some $550m in gold from foreign governments, including $223m from Belgium and $193m from the Netherlands. These figures do not include gold and other instruments stolen from private citizens or companies. The total value of all assets allegedly stolen by Nazi Germany remains uncertain.\n\nAdvancing north from Frankfurt, the US 3rd Army cut into the future Soviet zone when it occupied the western tip of Thuringia. On 4 April 1945 the 90th Infantry Division took Merkers, a few kilometres inside the border in Thuringia. On the morning of the 6th, two military policemen, Pfc. Clyde Harmon and Pfc. Anthony Kline, enforcing the customary orders against civilian circulation during an evening curfew, stopped two women on a road outside Merkers. Since both were French displaced persons, with one of them pregnant attempting to find a doctor, the military policemen decided to bring them back to Pfc. Richard C. Mootz. Luckily for Mootz, he and the women had something in common: they could all speak German. While getting to know them better and escorting them back into the town, they passed the entrance to the Kaiseroda salt mine in Merkers.\n\nThe two women told Mootz that the mine contained gold stored by the Germans, along with other treasures. Once back in his unit, he attempted to tell his three other comrades, but they weren't interested in listening. So he called other military personnel. By noon, the story had passed on up to the chief of staff and the division's G-5 officer, Lt. Col. William A. Russell, who, in a few hours, had the news confirmed by other DPs and by a British sergeant who had been employed in the mine as a prisoner of war and had helped unload the gold. Russell also turned up an assistant director of the National Gallery in Berlin who admitted he was in Merkers to care for paintings stored in the mine.\n\nThe next day was Sunday. In the morning, while Colonel Bernard D. Bernstein, Deputy Chief, Financial Branch, G-5, SHAEF, read about the find in the \"Stars and Stripes\"s Paris edition, 90th Infantry Division engineers blasted a hole in the vault wall to reveal on the other side a room 23 meters (75 ft) wide and 46 meters (150 ft) deep. They found 3,682 bags and cartons of German currency, 80 bags of foreign currency, 8,307 gold bars, 55 boxes of gold bullion, 3,326 bags of gold coins, 63 bags of silver, one bag of platinum bars, eight bags of gold rings and 207 bags and containers of Nazi loot that included valuable artwork.\n\nOn Sunday afternoon, Bernstein, after verifying to the fullest the newspaper story with Lt Col R. Tupper Barrett, Chief, Financial Branch, G-5, 12th Army Group, flew to SHAEF Forward at Rheims where he spent the night, it being too late by then to fly into Germany. At noon on Monday, he arrived at General George S. Patton's Third Army Headquarters with instructions from Eisenhower to check the contents of the mine and arrange to have the treasure taken away. While he was there, orders arrived for him to locate a depository farther back in the SHAEF zone and supervise the moving. (Under the Big Three arrangements, the part of Germany containing Merkers would be taken over by the Soviets for military government control after the fighting ended.) Bernstein and Barrett spent Tuesday looking for a site and finally settled on the Reichsbank building in Frankfurt.\n\nThe present whereabouts of the Nazi gold that disappeared into European banking institutions in 1945 has been the subject of several books, conspiracy theories, and a civil suit brought in January 2000 in California against the Vatican Bank, the Franciscan Order and other defendants. The suit against the Vatican Bank did not claim that the gold was then in its possession and has since been dismissed.\n\nThe Swiss National Bank, the largest gold distribution centre in continental Europe before the war, was the logical venue through which Nazi Germany could dispose of its gold. During the war, the SNB received $440m in gold from Nazi sources, of which $316m is estimated to have been looted.\n\nOn October 21, 1946, the U.S. State Department received a Top Secret report from US Treasury Agent Emerson Bigelow. The report established that Bigelow received reliable information on the matter from the American Office of Strategic Services (OSS) or CIC intelligence officials of the US Army. The document, referred to as the \"Bigelow Report\" (oftentimes as the \"Bigelow dispatch\", or \"Bigelow memo\") was declassified on December 31, 1996, and released in 1997.\n\nThe report asserted that in 1945, the Vatican had confiscated 350 million Swiss francs in Nazi gold for \"safekeeping,\" of which 150 million Swiss francs had been impounded by British authorities at the Austro-Swiss border. The report also stated that the balance of the gold was held in one of the Vatican's numbered Swiss bank accounts. Intelligence reports, which corroborated the Bigelow Report, also suggested that more than 200 million Swiss francs, a sum largely in gold coins, were eventually transferred to Vatican City or to the Institute for Works of Religion (aka the Vatican Bank), with the assistance of Roman Catholic clergy and the Franciscan Order.\n\nSuch claims, however, are denied by the Vatican Bank. \"There is no basis in reality to the [Bigelow] report\", said Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls, as reported in \"Time\" magazine.\n\nDuring the war, Portugal, with neutral status, was one of the centres of tungsten production and sold to both Allied and Axis powers. Tungsten is a critical metal for armaments, especially for armour-piercing bullets and shells. The German armaments industry was nearly entirely dependent on the supplies from Portugal.\n\nDuring the war, Portugal was the second largest recipient of Nazi gold, after Switzerland. Initially the Nazi trade with Portugal was in hard currency, but in 1941 the Central Bank of Portugal established that much of this was counterfeit and Portuguese leader António de Oliveira Salazar demanded all further payments in gold.\n\nIt is estimated that nearly 100 tons of Nazi gold were laundered through Swiss banks, with only four tons being returned at the end of the war.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\nhttps://hrcak.srce.hr/index.php?show=clanak&id_clanak_jezik=281598 (THE CASE OF GENERAL ANTE MOŠKOV 1945-1947 OR GENERAL ANTE MOŠKOV AND THE SO CALLED USTASHI GOLD 1945-1947)\n"}
{"id": "24097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24097", "title": "Principle of bivalence", "text": "Principle of bivalence\n\nIn logic, the semantic principle (or law) of bivalence states that every declarative sentence expressing a proposition (of a theory under inspection) has exactly one truth value, either true or false. A logic satisfying this principle is called a two-valued logic or bivalent logic.\n\nIn formal logic, the principle of bivalence becomes a property that a semantics may or may not possess. It is not the same as the law of excluded middle, however, and a semantics may satisfy that law without being bivalent.\n\nThe principle of bivalence is studied in philosophical logic to address the question of which natural-language statements have a well-defined truth value. Sentences which predict events in the future, and sentences which seem open to interpretation, are particularly difficult for philosophers who hold that the principle of bivalence applies to all declarative natural-language statements. Many-valued logics formalize ideas that a realistic characterization of the notion of consequence requires the admissibility of premises which, owing to vagueness, temporal or quantum indeterminacy, or reference-failure, cannot be considered classically bivalent. Reference failures can also be addressed by free logics.\n\nThe principle of bivalence is related to the law of excluded middle though the latter is a syntactic expression of the language of a logic of the form \"P ∨ ¬P\". The difference between the principle and the law is important because there are logics which validate the law but which do not validate the principle. For example, the three-valued Logic of Paradox (LP) validates the law of excluded middle, but not the law of non-contradiction, ¬(P ∧ ¬P), and its intended semantics is not bivalent. In classical two-valued logic both the law of excluded middle and the law of non-contradiction hold.\n\nMany modern logic programming systems replace the law of the excluded middle with the concept of negation as failure. The programmer may wish to add the law of the excluded middle by explicitly asserting it as true; however, it is not assumed \"a priori\".\n\nThe intended semantics of classical logic is bivalent, but this is not true of every semantics for classical logic. In Boolean-valued semantics (for classical propositional logic), the truth values are the elements of an arbitrary Boolean algebra, \"true\" corresponds to the maximal element of the algebra, and \"false\" corresponds to the minimal element. Intermediate elements of the algebra correspond to truth values other than \"true\" and \"false\". The principle of bivalence holds only when the Boolean algebra is taken to be the two-element algebra, which has no intermediate elements.\n\nAssigning Boolean semantics to classical predicate calculus requires that the model be a complete Boolean algebra because the universal quantifier maps to the infimum operation, and the existential quantifier maps to the supremum; this is called a Boolean-valued model. All finite Boolean algebras are complete.\n\nIn order to justify his claim that true and false are the only logical values, Suszko (1977) observes that every structural Tarskian many-valued propositional logic can be provided with a bivalent semantics.\n\nA famous example is the \"contingent sea battle\" case found in Aristotle's work, \"De Interpretatione\", chapter 9:\n\nThe principle of bivalence here asserts:\n\nAristotle to embrace bivalence for such future contingents; Chrysippus, the Stoic logician, did embrace bivalence for this and all other propositions. The controversy continues to be of central importance in both the philosophy of time and the philosophy of logic.\n\nOne of the early motivations for the study of many-valued logics has been precisely this issue. In the early 20th century, the Polish formal logician Jan Łukasiewicz proposed three truth-values: the true, the false and the \"as-yet-undetermined\". This approach was later developed by Arend Heyting and L. E. J. Brouwer; see Łukasiewicz logic.\n\nIssues such as this have also been addressed in various temporal logics, where one can assert that \"\"Eventually\", either there will be a sea battle tomorrow, or there won't be.\" (Which is true if \"tomorrow\" eventually occurs.)\n\nSuch puzzles as the Sorites paradox and the related continuum fallacy have raised doubt as to the applicability of classical logic and the principle of bivalence to concepts that may be vague in their application. Fuzzy logic and some other multi-valued logics have been proposed as alternatives that handle vague concepts better. Truth (and falsity) in fuzzy logic, for example, comes in varying degrees. Consider the following statement in the circumstance of sorting apples on a moving belt:\n\nUpon observation, the apple is an undetermined color between yellow and red, or it is motled both colors. Thus the color falls into neither category \" red \" nor \" yellow \", but these are the only categories available to us as we sort the apples. We might say it is \"50% red\". This could be rephrased: it is 50% true that the apple is red. Therefore, P is 50% true, and 50% false. Now consider:\n\nIn other words, P and not-P. This violates the law of noncontradiction and, by extension, bivalence. However, this is only a partial rejection of these laws because P is only partially true. If P were 100% true, not-P would be 100% false, and there is no contradiction because P and not-P no longer holds.\n\nHowever, the law of the excluded middle is retained, because P and not-P implies P or not-P, since \"or\" is inclusive. The only two cases where P and not-P is false (when P is 100% true or false) are the same cases considered by two-valued logic, and the same rules apply.\n\nExample of a 3-valued logic applied to vague (undetermined) cases: Kleene 1952 (§64, pp. 332–340) offers a 3-valued logic for the cases when algorithms involving partial recursive functions may not return values, but rather end up with circumstances \"u\" = undecided. He lets \"t\" = \"true\", \"f\" = \"false\", \"u\" = \"undecided\" and redesigns all the propositional connectives. He observes that:\n\nThe following are his \"strong tables\":\nFor example, if a determination cannot be made as to whether an apple is red or not-red, then the truth value of the assertion Q: \" This apple is red \" is \" u \". Likewise, the truth value of the assertion R \" This apple is not-red \" is \" u \". Thus the AND of these into the assertion Q AND R, i.e. \" This apple is red AND this apple is not-red \" will, per the tables, yield \" u \". And, the assertion Q OR R, i.e. \" This apple is red OR this apple is not-red \" will likewise yield \" u \".\n\n"}
{"id": "40186920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40186920", "title": "Public Interest Research Group in Michigan", "text": "Public Interest Research Group in Michigan\n\nPublic Interest Research Group in Michigan (PIRGIM) is a non-profit organization that is part of the state PIRG organizations.\n\nPIRGIM has a history of working on a variety of issues, such as cleaning Michigan's waterways, toy safety, and chemical safety.\n\nThe PIRGs emerged in the early 1970s on U.S. college campuses. The PIRG model was proposed in the book \"Action for a Change\" by Ralph Nader and Donald Ross. \nAmong other early accomplishments, the PIRGs were responsible for much of the Container Container Deposit Legislation in the United States, also known as \"bottle bills.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26152065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26152065", "title": "Religious values", "text": "Religious values\n\nReligious values are ethical principles founded in religious traditions, texts and beliefs. In contrast to personal values, religious-based values are based on scriptures and a religion's established norms.\n\nVarious aspects of the significance of religious values have been considered with respect to novels, their relevance to a particular religious group (the Jains for instance or Latin Americans), and in relation to human society.\n\n"}
{"id": "16809741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16809741", "title": "Ryōgen-in", "text": "Ryōgen-in\n\nRyōgen-in (龍源院) is a subtemple of the Daitoku-ji Buddhist complex, located in Kita-ku, Kyoto, Japan. It was constructed in 1502.\n\nThere are five gardens adjoining the abbot's residence, including Totekiko (claimed to be the smallest Japanese rock garden), Isshi-dan, Koda-tei, and Ryogin-tei (a moss-covered garden which is claimed to be the oldest garden in Daitoku-ji, and has been attributed to Sōami).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17617780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17617780", "title": "Samuel Cabanchik", "text": "Samuel Cabanchik\n\nSamuel Manuel Cabanchik (born August 18, 1958) is an Argentine philosopher, academic and politician. He was elected to the Argentine Senate in 2007, representing the City of Buenos Aires on the Civic Coalition ticket. He left the Civic Coalition on July 8, 2009 and formed his own parliamentary group, the Federal Buenos Aires Project and was subsequently considered a circumstantial ally of the Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner government.\n\nCabanchik is a professor of contemporary philosophy at the University of Buenos Aires and conducted research for Conicet, the National Scientific and Technical Research Council. His books include \"El revés de la filosofía\" (Buenos Aires, Biblos, 1993), \"Introducciones a la Filosofía\" (Barcelona, GEDISA, 2000) and \"El abandono del Mundo\" (Buenos Aires, 2006).\n\nCabanchik was affiliated to the Radical Civic Union but was inactive for several years prior to actively supporting the Civic Coalition of Elisa Carrió. He was elected to the Senate on the list of the Civic Coalition in 2007. On July 8, 2009 he announced he was leaving the Civic Coalition and forming his own parliamentary group, the Federal Buenos Aires Project. He has since become a strong parliamentary ally of President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.\n\nIn 2013, at the end of his Senate term, Cabanchik decided to run for the Municipality of Buenos Aires assembly on the Alternativa Popular ticket, which supports the government candidates for the Senate, Daniel Filmus, and the chamber of deputies, Juan Cabandié.\n\n"}
{"id": "12691741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12691741", "title": "Sangpo Bumtri", "text": "Sangpo Bumtri\n\nSangpo Bumtri () is the creator god of Bon. He has \"neither eyes to see, nor hands to hold, nor ears to hear, or nose to smell, he has only his spirit\".\n"}
{"id": "4818168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4818168", "title": "Sexualization", "text": "Sexualization\n\nSexualization (or sexualisation) is to make something sexual in character or quality, or to become aware of sexuality, especially in relation to men and women. Sexualization is linked to sexual objectification. According to the American Psychological Association, sexualization occurs when \"individuals are regarded as sex objects and evaluated in terms of their physical characteristics and sexiness.\" \"In study after study, findings have indicated that women more often than men are portrayed in a sexual manner (e.g., dressed in revealing clothing, with bodily postures or facial expressions that imply sexual readiness) and are objectified (e.g., used as a decorative object, or as body parts rather than a whole person). In addition, a narrow (and unrealistic) standard of physical beauty is heavily emphasized. These are the models of femininity presented for young girls to study and emulate.\" Women who embrace their sexual desires are considered to be sexy and attractive to men who want nothing more than to have a woman as a sex toy. In the eyes of men, women that practice this behavior serve the pure purpose of providing satisfaction and showcasing their human nature. According to the Media Education Foundation's, \"Killing Us Softly 4: Advertising's Image of Women\", the sexualization of girls in media and the ways women are portrayed in the dominant culture are detrimental to the development of young girls as they are developing their identities and understanding themselves as sexual beings.\n\nReports have found that sexualization of younger children is becoming increasingly more common in advertisements. Research has linked sexualization of young girls to negative consequences for girls and society as a whole, finding that the viewing of sexually objectifying material can contribute to body dissatisfaction, eating disorders, low self-esteem, depression and depressive affect. Medical and social science researchers generally deployed \"sexualization\" to refer to a liminal zone between sexual abuse and normal family life, in which the child's relationship with their parents was characterized by an \"excessive\", improper sexuality, though without recognizable forms of abuse having occurred. American Psychological Association also argues that the sexualization of young girls contributes to sexist attitudes within society, and a societal tolerance of sexual violence.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2005, \"sexualization\" began to ascend to the status of an issue in the public eye. The cause of this rise was that it became positioned by a number of discursive actors as a feminist issue. This is not to say that a single \"feminist perspective on sexualization\" emerged in this period; among discursive actors mobilizing feminist discourses, or identifying themselves explicitly with feminism, there were a host of different views. Yet a particular, relatively cohesive position emerged after 2003 among a number of media discourses: these discourses tended to emphasize that, in the context of a commercialized and sexist culture, young women are unable to exercise meaningful choice even when they experience themselves as doing so. These media actors, in their problematization of sexualization, positioned themselves as the true heirs to the feminist tradition and its critical insights, in contrast to contemporary youth.\n\nConsumerism and globalization has led to sexualization of girls occurring across all advanced economies, in media and advertisements, to clothing and toys marketed for young girls.\n\nThe term \"sexualization\" itself only emerged in Anglophone discourse in recent decades. Beginning in the mid-nineteenth century, the term was infrequently drawn upon by English writers to refer the assignation of a gendered frame to a particular object, such as the gendering of nouns (e.g., de Quincey [1839]1909, 195). In contrast, the term \"asexualization\" saw greater use, as a synonym for sterilization in eugenics discourse from around the turn of the twentieth century (e.g., Lydston 1904). The opposite or antonym to sexualization is desexualization.\n\nIn 2006, an Australian report called \"Corporate paedophilia: sexualisation of children in Australia\" was published. The Australian report summarises its conclusion as follows:\n\nIn 2007, the American Psychological Association published a report titled \"Report of the APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls\", discussed below.\n\nIn 2010, the American Psychological Association published an additional report titled \" Report of the APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls\", which performed a study where college students were asked to try on and evaluate either a swimsuit or a sweater. While they waited for 10 minutes wearing the garment, they completed a math test. The results revealed that young women in swimsuits performed significantly worse on the math problems than did those wearing sweaters.The hypothesis is that individuals about to try on the sweaters had less pressure to look beautiful because they were not wearing revealing clothing therefore they performed better.\n\nIn 2012, an American study found that self-sexualization was common among 6–9-year old girls. Girls overwhelmingly chose the sexualized doll over the non-sexualized doll for their ideal self and as popular. However other factors, such as how often mothers talked to their children about what is going on in TV shows and maternal religiosity, reduced those odds. Surprisingly, the mere quantity of girls' media consumption (TV and movies) was unrelated to their self-sexualization for the most part; rather, maternal self-objectification and maternal religiosity moderated its effects.\n\nHowever, in 2010 the Scottish Executive released a report titled \"External research on sexualised goods aimed at children\". The report considers the drawbacks of the United States and Australian reviews, concluding:\n\nThe Scottish review also notes that:\n\nIt also notes that previous coverage \"rests on moral assumptions … that are not adequately explained or justified.\"\n\nLetting Children be Children: Report of an Independent Review of the Commercialisation and Sexualisation of Childhood (UK)\nThe report 'Letting Children Be Children', also known as the Bailey Report, is a report commissioned by the UK government on the subject of the commercialisation and sexualisation of childhood. The report was published in June 2011 and was commissioned as a result of concerns raised as to whether children's lives are negatively affected by the effects of commercialisation and sexualisation.\n\nThe Bailey Report is so-called as it was researched and compiled by Reg Bailey, the Chief Executive of the Mothers' Union, a \"charity supporting parents and children in 83 countries in the world\". The report asked for contributions from parents; children; organisations; businesses and the general public in order to consider their views and inform their recommendations and identified four themes that were of particular concern to parents and the wider public. These themes were:\n\nThe report returned recommendations based on the research from interested parties, on each of the key themes, in the form of \"what we would like to see\". On the theme of \"the wallpaper of children's lives\" it said that it would like to see that sexualised images used in public places should be more in line with what parents find acceptable, to ensure that images in public spaces becomes more child friendly. On theme two \"clothing, products and services for children\" the Bailey report said that it would like to see retailers no longer selling or marketing inappropriate clothing, products or services for children. What they would like to see on theme three \"children as consumers\" is comprehensive regulation protecting children from excessive commercial pressures across all media in-line with parental expectations; that marketers are ethical and do not attempt to exploit gaps in the market to influence children into becoming consumers and to ensure that parents and children have an awareness of marketing techniques and regulations. Finally in terms of \"making parents voices heard\" it would like to see parents finding it easier to voice their concerns to, and be listened to by, businesses and regulators.\n\nThere is a motion for a European Parliament resolution going through which gives the following definition of sexualization: \n\nThe sexualization of women of color is different than the sexualization of white women. The media plays a significant role in this sexualization. \"The media are likely to have powerful effects if the information is presented persistently, consistently, and corroborated among forms. As a media affect, stereotypes rely on the repetition to perpetuate and sustain them.\" According to Celine Parrenas Shimizu, \"To see race is to see sex, and vice versa.\"\n\nIn an NPR interview with Professor Herbert Samuels at LaGuardia Community College in New York and Mireille Miller-Young a professor at UC Santa Barbara they talk about sexual stereotypes of black bodies in America and how even in sex work, already a dangerous job, black women are treated much worse than their counterparts due to the effects of their oversexualization and objectification in society. Black women's bodies are either invisible or hypervisible. In the 1800s, a South African woman named Sarah Baartman was known as \"Hottentot Venus\" and her body was paraded around in London and Paris where they looked at her exotic features such as large breasts and behind. Her features were deemed lesser and oversexual. There is also the \"Jezebel\" stereotype that portrays black women as \"hypersexual, manipulative, animalistic and promiscuous females who cannot be controlled.\"\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, women are frequently stereotyped as sultry and sexual as the reputation of Dominican sex workers grows. Many poor women have resorted to sex work because the demand is high and the hours and pay are often dictated by the workers themselves. White European and American men \"exoticize dark-skinned 'native' bodies\" because \"they can buy sex for cut-rate prices\". This overgeneralizing of the sexuality of Dominican women can also carries back to the women's homes. Even \"women who...worked in Europe have become suspect...\" even if they had a legal job. They have become \"exports\" instead of people because of their sexualization.\n\nThe image of Asian women in Hollywood cinema is directly linked to sexuality as essential to any imagining about the roles they play as well as her actual appearance in popular culture. Asian female fatale's hypersexualized subjection is derived from her sexual behaviour that is considered as natural to her particular race and culture. Two types of Asian stereotypes that are commonly found in media are the Lotus Flower and the Dragon Lady. The Lotus Flower archetype is the \"self-sacrificing, servile, and suicidal Asian women.\" The dragon lady archetype is the opposite of the lotus flower, a \"self-abnegating Asian woman…[who] uses her 'Oriental' femininity, associated with seduction and danger to trap white men on behalf of conniving Asian males.\" According to film-maker and film scholar, Celine Shimizu, \"The figure of the Asian American femme fatale signifies a particular deathly seduction. She attracts with her soft, unthreatening, and servile femininity while concealing her hard, dangerous, and domineering nature.\"\n\nStarting from the time of white colonization of Native American land, some Native American women have been referred to as \"squaw,\" an Algonquin word for vagina. \"The 'squaw' [stereotype] is the dirty, subservient, and abused tribal female who is also haggard, violent, and eager to torture tribal captives.\" Another stereotype is the beautiful Indian princess who leaves her tribe and culture behind to marry a white man.\n\nLatina characters that embody the hot Latina stereotype in film and television is marked by easily identifiable behavioral characteristics such as \"'addictively romantic, sensual, sexual and even exotically dangerous', self-sacrificing, dependent, powerless, sexually naive, childlike, pampered, and irresponsible\". Stereotypical Latina physical characteristics include \"red lips, big bottoms, large hips, voluptuous bosoms, and small waists\" and \"high heels, huge hoop earrings, seductive clothing.\" Within the hot Latina stereotype lies three categories of representation: the Cantina Girl, the Faithful, self-sacrificing señorita, and the vamp. The Cantina Girl markers are \"'great sexual allure,' teasing, dancing, and 'behaving in an alluring fashion.'\" The faithful, self-sacrificing Señorita starts out as a good girl and turns bad by the end. The Señorita, in an attempt to save her Anglo love interest, utilizes her body to protect him from violence. The Vamp representation \"uses her intellectual and devious sexual wiles to get what she wants.\" The media represents Latinas \"as either [a] hot-blooded spitfire\" or \"[a] dutiful mother\". The sexual implications of the \"hot-blooded\" Latina has become an overgeneralized representation of Latin people. This has led many to see the Latin people as \"what is morally wrong\" with the United States. Some believe it to be wrong simply because the interpretation of this culture seems to go against white, Western culture. Culturally, the Latina is expected to dress \"as a proper señorita\" in order to be respected as a woman which conflicts with the Western ideals that a girl is sexual if she dresses \"too 'mature' for [her] age\". Even in the business world this stereotype continues; \"tight skirts and jingling bracelets [are misinterpreted] as a come-on\". This sexualization can also be linked to certain stereotypical jobs. The image of the Latina woman often is not in the business world but in the domestic. The sexualization of Latina women sexualizes the positions that they are expected to occupy. Domestic servants, maids, and waitresses are the typical \"media-engendered\" roles that make it difficult for Latinas to gain \"upward mobility\" despite the fact that many hold PhDs.\n\nThe American Psychological Association (APA) in its 2007 Report looked at the cognitive and emotional consequences of sexualization and the consequences for mental and physical health, and impact on development of a healthy sexual self-image. The report considers that a person is sexualized in the following situations:\n\nSome cultural critics have postulated that over recent decades children have evidenced a level of sexual knowledge or sexual behaviour inappropriate for their age group.\n\nThe causes of this premature sexualization that have been cited include portrayals in the media of sex and related issues, especially in media aimed at children; the marketing of products with sexual connotations to children, including clothing; the lack of parental oversight and discipline; access to adult culture via the internet; and the lack of comprehensive school sex education programs.\n\nFor girls and young women in particular, the APA reports that studies have found that sexualization has a negative impact on their \"self-image and healthy development\".\n\nThe APA cites the following as advertising techniques that contribute to the sexualization of girls:\nThe APA additionally further references the teen magazine market by citing a study by Roberts \"et al\" that found that \"47% of 8- to 18-year-old [girls] reported having read at least 5 minutes of a magazine the previous day.\" A majority of these magazines focused on a theme of presenting oneself as sexually desirable to men, a practice which is called \"costuming for seduction\" in a study by Duffy and Gotcher.\n\nStudies have found that thinking about the body and comparing it to sexualized cultural ideals may disrupt a girl's mental concentration, and a girl's sexualization or objectification may undermine her confidence in and comfort with her own body, leading to emotional and self-image problems, such as shame and anxiety.\n\nResearch has linked sexualization with three of the most common mental health problems diagnosed in girls and women: eating disorders, low self-esteem, and depression or depressed mood.\n\nResearch suggests that the sexualization of girls has negative consequences on girls' ability to develop a healthy sexual self-image.\n\nA result of the sexualization of girls in the media is that young girls are \"learning how to view themselves as sex objects\". When girls fail to meet the thin ideal and dominant culture's standard of beauty they can develop anxieties. Sexualization is problematic for young children who are developing their sexual identity as they may think that turning themselves into sex objects is empowering and related to having sexual agency.\n\nSome commercial products seen as promoting the sexualization of children have drawn considerable media attention:\n\nThe Scottish Executive report surveyed 32 High street UK retailers and found that many of the larger chains, including Tesco, Debenhams, JJ Sports, and Marks & Spencer did not offer sexualized goods aimed at children. The report noted that overall prevalence was limited but this was based on a very narrow research brief. Whilst this shows that not all High street retailers were aiming products deemed sexualized by the researchers, the research cannot be taken out of context and used to say that there is not an issue of sexualization.\n\nSexualization has also been a subject of debate for academics who work in media and cultural studies. Here, the term has not been used to simply to label what is seen as a social problem, but to indicate the much broader and varied set of ways in which sex has become more visible in media and culture. These include;\nthe widespread discussion of sexual values, practices and identities in the media;\nthe growth of sexual media of all kinds; for example, erotica, slash fiction, sexual self-help books and the many genres of pornography; \nthe emergence of new forms of sexual experience, for example instant message or avatar sex made possible by developments in technology; \na public concern with the breakdown of consensus about regulations for defining and dealing with obscenity; \nthe prevalence of scandals, controversies and panics around sex in the media.\n\nThe terms \"pornification\" and \"pornographication\" have also been used to describe the way that aesthetics that were previously associated with pornography have become part of popular culture, and that mainstream media texts and other cultural practices \"citing pornographic styles, gestures and aesthetics\" have become more prominent. This process, which Brian McNair has described as a \"pornographication of the mainstream\". has developed alongside an expansion of the cultural realm of pornography or \"pornosphere\" which itself has become more accessible to a much wider variety of audiences. According to McNair, both developments can be set in the context of a wider shift towards a \"striptease culture\" which has disrupted the boundaries between public and private discourse in late modern Western culture, and which is evident more generally in cultural trends which privilege lifestyle, reality, interactivity, self-revelation and public intimacy.\n\nChildren and adolescents spend more time engaging with media than any other age group. This is a time in their life that they are more susceptible to information that they receive. Children are getting sex education from the media, little kids are exposed to sexualized images and more information than ever before in human history but are not able to process the information, they are not developmentally ready to process it, and this impacts their development and behavior.\n\nSexualization of young girls in the media and infantilization of women creates an environment where it becomes more acceptable to view children as \"seductive and sexy\". It makes having healthy sexual relationships more difficult for people and creates sexist attitudes. Sexualization also contributes to sexual violence and childhood sexual abuse \"where 1 in 4 girls and 1 in 6 boys are sexually abused during childhood\".\n\nThe Australian writers, Catharine Lumby and Kath Albury (2010) have suggested that sexualization is \"a debate that has been simmering for almost a decade\" and concerns about sex and the media are far from new. Much of the recent writing on sexualization has been the subject of criticism that because of the way that it draws on \"one-sided, selective, overly simplifying, generalizing, and negatively toned\" evidence and is \"saturated in the languages of concern and regulation\". In these writings and the widespread press coverage that they have attracted, critics state that the term is often used as \"a non-sequitur causing everything from girls flirting with older men to child sex trafficking\" They believe that the arguments often ignore feminist work on media, gender and the body and present a very conservative and negative view of sex in which only monogamous heterosexual sexuality is regarded as normal. They say that the arguments tend to neglect any historical understanding of the way sex has been represented and regulated, and they often ignore both theoretical and empirical work on the relationship between sex and media, culture and technology.\n\nThe sexualization of women being influenced by society is a problem that should be avoided due to its impact on how women value and present themselves. The way society shapes ones personal interest is presented in a book review of \"Girls Gone Skank\" by Patrice Oppliger, Amanda Mills states that \"consequently, girls are socialized to participate in their own abuse by becoming avid consumers of and altering their behavior to reflect sexually exploitative images and goods.\" The belief that women are powerful and fully capable as men is stated in the text \"Uses Of The Erotic: The Erotic As Power\" by Audre Lorde stating that the suppression of the erotic of women has led them feeling superior to men \"the superficially, erotic had been encouraged as a sign of female inferiority on the other hand women have been made to suffer and to feel opposed contemptible and suspect by virtue of its existence\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4076926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076926", "title": "Seyla Benhabib", "text": "Seyla Benhabib\n\nSeyla Benhabib (; born September 9, 1950) is a Turkish-born American philosopher of Sephardic ancestry. She is Eugene Mayer Professor of Political Science and Philosophy at Yale University and was director of the program in Ethics, Politics, and Economics from 2002-2008. Benhabib is well known for her work in political philosophy, which draws on critical theory and feminist political theory. She has written extensively on the philosophers Hannah Arendt and Jürgen Habermas, as well as on the topic of human migration. She is the author of numerous books, and she has received several prestigious awards and lectureships in recognition of her work.\n\nBorn in Istanbul, Benhabib was educated at English-language schools in that city. She received a B.A. in 1970 from Robert College, then called the American College for Girls in Istanbul, before leaving for the United States. She received a B.A. from Brandeis University in 1972 and a Ph.D. from Yale in 1977. She traces her family history back to the 1492 expulsion of Jews from Spain on the \"second reconquista.\"\n\nBenhabib taught in the departments of philosophy at Boston University, SUNY Stony Brook, the New School for Social Research, and the Department of Government at Harvard University, before taking her current position at Yale. She has also served on editorial advisory boards for a number of journals, including \"Political Theory\", \"Human Rights Review\", \"Journal of International Political Theory\", and \"Ethics & International Affairs\". In 1992, she co-founded with Andrew Arato the journal \"Constellations: An International Journal of Critical and Democratic Theory\" and served as its co-editor-in-chief until 1997. She served as President of the Eastern Division of the American Philosophical Association in 2006-2007.\n\nBenhabib has received numerous honors and awards for her work. She was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1995. She held the Spinoza Chair of Philosophy at the University of Amsterdam in 2000 and was a Tanner Lecturer at UC, Berkeley in 2004. In the 2008-2009 academic year, she was a Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Berlin (Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin). In 2012 she was awarded the Dr. Leopold-Lucas Prize by the Eberhard Karls University of Tübingen in recognition of outstanding achievement in the field of theology, intellectual history, historical research and philosophy, as well as the commitment to international understanding and tolerance. In 2014, she received an Honorary Doctorate of Human Letters from Georgetown University and the Meister Eckhart Prize for her work on the subject of identity.\n\nShe is married to well-known author and journalist Jim Sleeper.\n\nDemocratic theorists advocate discussion within cultures and support social change. Benhabib is a liberal democratic theorist who does not believe in the purity of cultures; she thinks of them as formed through dialogues with other cultures. Human cultures are, according to Benhabib, the constant change of imaginary boundaries. They influence each other and sometimes radicalize or conform as a reaction on other cultures. Benhabib argues that in democratic theory it is assumed that every single person should be able to determine their own life. She argues that pluralism, the existence of fundamentally different cultures, is compatible with cosmopolitanism, if three conditions are fulfilled. These conditions are:\nIt is contested whether cultural diversity and democratic equality can co-exist. Many cultures are not compatible with one or more of the three given conditions. For example, the first condition is violated within several cultures, such as the Kurds in Turkey or the Roma in Eastern Europe. Every nation state has groups that are not accepted by the majority. Some governments do nothing to stop discrimination against minorities. The second and third condition are also problematic. Thus, at present there seems to be no examples of states practicing a perfect version of Benhabib's system of mixing pluralism with cosmopolitanism. This does, of course, not rule out that it is possible, nor that it is a societal goal worth striving for.\n\nBenhabib prefers a world with porous borders. She argues that political boundaries define some as members, but lock others out. She has written: \"I think it is possible to have an empire without borders; I don't think it is possible to have a democracy without borders.\"\n\nMore and more people live in countries which are not their own, as state sovereignty is not as strong as in the past. Benhabib argues that somebody who is stateless is seen as an outcast and is in a way rightless. Current policy still sees national borders as a means to keep out strangers.\n\nBenhabib's cosmopolitan view is inspired by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant. Kant's \"Perpetual peace\" concerns three articles which together are key to creating perpetual peace. In the third article Kant says that the rights of world citizens shall be limited to the right of universal hospitality. In Kant's view, every single person has the right to go wherever they like without fear of hostility from their hosts.\n\nBenhabib takes this right as a starting point which resulted in her thoughts about migration and refugee problems. Benhabib goes further than Kant, arguing that the human right of hospitality should not apply to a single visit, but in some cases to long-term stays. For example, a country shouldn't send a refugee back when it is not sure whether they are safe in the country of origin. Nations should have obligations to exiles and refugees, and these obligations are different from the obligations to immigrants.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12601205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12601205", "title": "Skinny Bitch", "text": "Skinny Bitch\n\nSkinny Bitch is a diet book written by former modelling agent Rory Freedman and former model Kim Barnouin.\n\nThe book sold better than expected despite not having high initial sales.\n\"Skinny Bitch\" became a best-seller in the United Kingdom by May 2007 and in the United States by July, more than eighteen months after its initial 2005 press run of 10,000 copies. The book also sold well in Canada.\n\nThe book advocates a purely vegan diet and includes sections on factory farming and animal cruelty. In addition to advocating a vegan diet, the authors also say that one should avoid smoking, alcohol, caffeine, chemical additives (such as aspartame) and refined sugar. Sources are frequently cited throughout the book, a large number of which point to vegan websites.\n\nReactions to the book have been mixed. \"The New York Times\" reported the lead buyer at retailer Shakespeare & Company saying: \"It's definitely the most entertaining diet book I've ever read\", and that it \"had sold 'extremely well' in the stores.\" They also quote the co-owner of a bookshop as saying:\n\nIt definitely has that sharp, chick-lit look and feel [...] You look at the photo of the authors on the back, and they are both drop-dead gorgeous. If you look at the photos of authors on the crunchy granola books — maybe not so much.\n\nUrsula Hirschkorn in the \"Daily Mail\" criticized the book. She criticizes the authors' \"simplistic theory, that the secret of weight loss is just to eat healthy food. Oh if it were that easy, we'd all be size eight.\" She emphasized the \"extreme\" nature of the proposed diet, saying that \"The book spouts an extensive list of no-nos that you must avoid… In a nutshell, everything that makes our short, brutish lives that bit more bearable.\" She complains that the book is marketed as a diet book when that is not its sole focus: \"This isn't so much a diet book as a propaganda pamphlet for veganism… it moves effortlessly from being potty-mouthed advice on how to adopt a fat-busting healthy diet, into a diatribe against eating meat.\" She also said: \"These pampered LA princesses work hard to make us feel guilty for trying to make our lives a bit easier... They sanctimoniously lecture us on the cancer-causing chemicals in wine, and the nasties lurking in diet sodas… Skinny Bitch is just the same-old diet rules repackaged in an obnoxious and bullying tone.\"\n\n\"The Sun\" called it \"a vegan diet with a bit of attitude thrown in.\" They also said \"if you follow it to the letter then you will lose weight but for your average woman it's not particularly easy to follow.\"\n\nOne of the book's co-authors, Kim Barnouin, holds a degree from the unaccredited Clayton College of Natural Health, which closed in 2010. Clayton College has never been accredited by any reputable accrediting agency and is viewed with deep suspicion by the medical community.\n\nSeveral followups have been written, including the cookbooks \"Skinny Bitch in the Kitch\" and \"Skinny Bitch Ultimate Everyday Cookbook\" and \"Skinny Bastard\", a men's dietary program.\n"}
{"id": "32404803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32404803", "title": "Sophic", "text": "Sophic\n\nSophic is a term used by Mormon apologist, scholar, and author Hugh Nibley to explain the shift from the tradition of oral-formulaic composition to that of the written word—sophic corresponding to the written word, the word \"mantic\" corresponding to the oral formulaic tradition. According to his theory, the mantic was a tradition relying entirely on God and prophets for knowledge. A person in that time period could go directly to the wise man, who simply asked God, the great spirit, or the universe and shared his directive. The mantic experience was a communal one—information was oral in mantic societies because everybody needed to be able to repeat and remember knowledge together. Sacred memories and information were encoded in a way that the community could take part in them together. \nThe shift to the sophic tradition meant a more individually centered society, gleaning knowledge from more of the scientific method-type mindset. This individual crusade for knowledge necessitated a way to transmit knowledge to others who may have the same question, leading to a written tradition. This also led to more standardized and replicable acquisition of knowledge. For example, an experiment in a laboratory ideally must be replicated several times in different laboratories to be considered valid.\n\nNibley explains:\n\n. . . Whoever accepts the Sophic attitude must abandon the Mantic, and vice versa. It is the famous doctrine of Two Ways found among the Orientals, Greeks and early Christians . . . On the other hand, the Sophic society unitedly rejects the Mantic proposition, and it too forms a single community . . . here was \"a man who prized brain and insight, who preferred the voice of reasoned conviction to the braying of Balaam's ass.\" Better false teaching from a true intellectual than the truth from a prophet. So fiercely loyal and uncompromising are the Sophic and Mantic to their own. \n\n"}
{"id": "1791754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791754", "title": "Species (metaphysics)", "text": "Species (metaphysics)\n\nSpecies, in metaphysics, is a specific genus-differentia defined item that is described first by its genus (genos) and then its differentia (diaphora). Put differently, it is an item, not necessarily biological, that belongs to a group and can be distinguished from other species in that group. \n\nFor example, a human being as a species can be defined as an animal (genus) that can reason (differentia).\n\nThe term is derived from the Greek word \"eidos\", which means form in Plato's dialogues but should be taken to mean species in Aristotle's corpus.\n\n"}
{"id": "9526660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9526660", "title": "Spectrum of theistic probability", "text": "Spectrum of theistic probability\n\nPopularized by Richard Dawkins in \"The God Delusion,\" the spectrum of theistic probability is a way of categorizing one's belief regarding the probability of the existence of a deity.\n\nJ. J. C. Smart argues that the distinction between atheism and agnosticism is unclear, and many people who have passionately described themselves as agnostics were in fact atheists. He writes that this mischaracterization is based on an unreasonable philosophical skepticism that would not allow us to make any claims to knowledge about the world. He proposes instead the following analysis:\n\nLet us consider the appropriateness or otherwise of someone (call him 'Philo') describing himself as a theist, atheist or agnostic. I would suggest that if Philo estimates the various plausibilities to be such that on the evidence before him the probability of theism comes out near to one he should describe himself as a theist and if it comes out near zero he should call himself an atheist, and if it comes out somewhere in the middle he should call himself an agnostic. There are no strict rules about this classification because the borderlines are vague. If need be, like a middle-aged man who is not sure whether to call himself bald or not bald, he should explain himself more fully.\nIn \"The God Delusion\", Richard Dawkins posits that \"the existence of God is a scientific hypothesis like any other.\" He goes on to propose a continuous \"spectrum of probabilities\" between two extremes of opposite certainty, which can be represented by seven \"milestones\". Dawkins suggests definitive statements to summarize one's place along the spectrum of theistic probability. These \"milestones\" are:\n\n\nDawkins argues that while there appear to be plenty of individuals that would place themselves as \"1\" due to the strictness of religious doctrine against doubt, most atheists do not consider themselves \"7\" because atheism arises from a lack of evidence and evidence can always change a thinking person's mind. In print, Dawkins self-identified as a '6', though when interviewed by Bill Maher and later by Anthony Kenny, he suggested '6.9' to be more accurate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1089521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1089521", "title": "The Four Loves", "text": "The Four Loves\n\nThe Four Loves is a book by C. S. Lewis which explores the nature of love from a Christian and philosophical perspective through thought experiments. The book was based on a set of radio talks from 1958 which had been criticised in the U.S. at the time for their frankness about sex.\n\nTaking his start from St. John's words \"God is Love\", Lewis initially thought to contrast \"Need-love\" (such as the love of a child for its mother) and \"Gift-love\" (epitomized by God's love for humanity), to the disparagement of the former. However he swiftly happened on the insight that the natures of even these basic categorizations of love are more complicated than they at first seemed: a child's need for parental comfort is a necessity, not a selfish indulgence, while conversely parental Gift-love in excessive form can be a perversion of its own.\n\nLewis continued his examination by exploring the nature of pleasure, distinguishing Need-pleasures (such as water for the thirsty) from Pleasures of Appreciation, such as the love of nature. From the latter, he developed what he called \"a third element in love ... Appreciative love\", to go along with Need-love and Gift-love.\n\nThroughout the rest of the book, Lewis would go on to counterpart that three-fold, qualitative distinction against the four broad types of loves indicated in his title.\n\nIn his remaining four chapters, Lewis treats of love under four categories (\"the highest does not stand without the lowest\"), based in part on the four Greek words for \"love\": affection, friendship, eros, and charity. Lewis states that just as Lucifer (a former archangel) perverted himself by pride and fell into depravity, so too can love – commonly held to be the arch-emotion – become corrupt by presuming itself to be what it is not.\n\nA fictional treatment of these loves is the main theme of Lewis's novel \"Till We Have Faces\".\n\nStorge (\"storgē\", Greek: στοργή) is liking someone through the fondness of familiarity, family members or people who relate in familiar ways that have otherwise found themselves bonded by chance. An example is the natural love and affection of a parent for their child. It is described as the most natural, emotive, and widely diffused of loves: It is natural in that it is present without coercion, emotive because it is the result of fondness due to familiarity, and most widely diffused because it pays the least attention to those characteristics deemed \"valuable\" or worthy of love and, as a result, is able to transcend most discriminating factors. Lewis describes it as a dependency-based love which risks extinction if the needs cease to be met.\n\nAffection, for Lewis, included both Need-love and Gift-love. He considered it responsible for ths of all solid and lasting human happiness.\n\nHowever, affection's strength is also what makes it vulnerable. Affection has the appearance of being \"built-in\" or \"ready made\", says Lewis, and as a result people come to expect it irrespective of their behavior and its natural consequences. Both in its Need and its Gift form, affection then is liable to \"go bad\", and to be corrupted by such forces as jealousy, ambivalence and smothering.\n\nPhilia (\"philía\", Greek: φιλία) is the love between friends as close as siblings in strength and duration. The friendship is the strong bond existing between people who share common values, interests or activities. Lewis immediately differentiates friendship love from the other loves. He describes friendship as \"the least biological, organic, instinctive, gregarious and necessary...the least \"natural\" of loves\". Our species does not need friendship in order to reproduce, but to the classical and medieval worlds it is a higher-level love because it is freely chosen.\n\nLewis explains that true friendships, like the friendship between David and Jonathan in the Bible, are almost a lost art. He expresses a strong distaste for the way modern society ignores friendship. He notes that he cannot remember any poem that celebrated true friendship like that between David and Jonathan, Orestes and Pylades, Roland and Oliver, Amis and Amiles. Lewis goes on to say, \"to the Ancients, Friendship seemed the happiest and most fully human of all loves; the crown of life and the school of virtue. The modern world, in comparison, ignores it\".\n\nGrowing out of companionship, friendship for Lewis was a deeply appreciative love, though one which he felt few people in modern society could value at its worth, because so few actually experienced true friendship.\n\nNevertheless, Lewis was not blind to the dangers of friendships, such as its potential for cliquiness, anti-authoritarianism and pride.\n\nEros (\"erōs\", Greek: ἔρως) for Lewis was love in the sense of \"being in love\" or \"loving\" someone, as opposed to the raw sexuality of what he called Venus: the illustration Lewis used was the distinction between \"wanting a woman\" and wanting one particular woman – something that matched his (classical) view of man as a rational animal, a composite both of reasoning angel and instinctual alley-cat.\n\nEros turns the need-pleasure of Venus into the most appreciative of all pleasures; but nevertheless Lewis warned against the modern tendency for Eros to become a god to people who fully submit themselves to it, a justification for selfishness, even a phallic religion.\n\nAfter exploring sexual activity and its spiritual significance in both a pagan and a Christian sense, he notes how Eros (or being in love) is in itself an indifferent, neutral force: how \"Eros in all his splendor ... may urge to evil as well as good\".\nWhile accepting that Eros can be an extremely profound experience, he does not overlook the dark way in which it could lead even to the point of suicide pacts or murder, as well as to furious refusals to part, \"mercilessly chaining together two mutual tormentors, each raw all over with the poison of hate-in-love\".\n\nCharity (\"agápē\", Greek: ἀγάπη) is the love that exists regardless of changing circumstances. Lewis recognizes this selfless love as the greatest of the four loves, and sees it as a specifically Christian virtue to achieve. The chapter on the subject focuses on the need to subordinate the other three natural loves – as Lewis puts it, \"The natural loves are not self-sufficient\" – to the love of God, who is full of charitable love, to prevent what he termed their \"demonic\" self-aggrandizement.\n\n"}
{"id": "11459735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11459735", "title": "Virtual synchrony", "text": "Virtual synchrony\n\nVirtual synchrony is an interprocess message passing (sometimes called ordered, reliable multicast) technology. Virtual synchrony systems allow programs running in a network to organize themselves into \"process groups\", and to send messages to groups (as opposed to sending them to specific processes). Each message is delivered to all the group members, in the identical order, and this is true even when two messages are transmitted simultaneously by different senders. Application design and implementation is greatly simplified by this property: every group member sees the same events (group membership changes and incoming messages) in the same order.\n\nA virtually synchronous service is typically implemented using a style of programming called state machine replication, in which a service is first implemented using a single program that receives inputs from clients through some form of remote message passing infrastructure, then enters a new state and responds in a deterministic manner. The initial implementation is then transformed so that multiple instances of the program can be launched on different machines, using a virtually synchronous message passing system to replicate the incoming messages over the members. The replicas will see the same events in the same order, and are in the same states, hence they will make the same state transitions and remain in a consistent state.\n\nThe replication of the service provides a form of fault-tolerance: if a replica fails (by crashing), the others remain and can continue to provide responses. Different members of the replica group can also be programmed to subdivide the workload, typically by using the group membership to determine their respective roles. This permits a group of N members to run as much as N times faster than a single member, or to handle N times as many requests, while continuing to offer fault-tolerance in the event of a crash.\n\nVirtual synchrony is distinguished from classical state machine replication because the model includes features whereby a programmer can request early (optimistic) delivery of messages, or relaxed forms of ordering. When used appropriately, these features can enable substantial speedup. However, the programmer needs to be sure that the relaxation of guarantees will not compromise correctness.\n\nFor example, in a service that uses locking to protect concurrently updated data, the messaging system can be instructed to use an inexpensive form of message ordering, in which the messaging system respects the ordering in which individual senders send messages (FIFO guarantee) but does not attempt to impose an agreed order if messages are sent concurrently by different senders. Provided that the sender indeed held locks on the data, it can be shown that FIFO ordering suffices for correctness. The benefit is that FIFO ordering is much less costly to implement than total ordering for concurrent messages.\n\nTo give another example, by delivering messages optimistically, virtual synchrony systems can outperform the Paxos that is normally required for implementation of state machine replication: Paxos normally requires a 2-phase protocol, whereas optimistic virtual synchrony protocols can deliver messages immediately upon their arrival. However, this could result in a violation of the safety property of the state machine replication model. To prevent such problems, the programmer who uses this feature is required to invoke a primitive called \"flush\", which delays the caller until any optimistically delivered messages have reached all of the group members. Provided that the programmer understands this behavior and is careful to call flush before interacting with external clients or persistent storage, higher performance can be achieved without loss of safety.\n\nThe flexibility associated with these limited forms of event reordering and optimistic early delivery permit virtual synchrony platforms to achieve extremely high data rates while still preserving very strong fault-tolerance and consistency guarantees.\n\nDistributed computer systems often need a way to replicate data for sharing between programs running on multiple machines, connected by a network. Virtual synchrony is one of three major technologies for solving this problem. The key idea is to create a form of distributed state machine associated with the replicated data item. Called a \"process group\", these state machines share copies of the data, and updates are delivered as \"events\" that occur in the same order at all the copies. If a process fails or crashes, this is reported to the other processes in the group; if a process joins, this is similarly reported, and a state transfer is used to initialize the joining member. An application with lots of data items to replicate might do so by using a single group for the whole set, or it could create different groups for different items, with the former approach used when the items are replicated at the identical places, and the latter being used when the replication patterns differ.\n\nEach process group has a name, visible within the network. A single application program can become a member of many groups at the same time. In effect, a process group becomes an abstraction for sharing data, coordinating actions, and monitoring other processes. In the most widely used software libraries implementing the model, virtual synchrony is typically employed within individual objects, which are then incorporated into object oriented code in languages like Java or C#. The objects themselves act as a unit of replication with virtual synchrony properties.\n\nThe term \"virtual synchrony\" refers to the fact that applications see the shared data evolve in what seems to be a synchronous manner. This form of synchronization is \"virtual\" because the actual situation is more complex than seems to be the case from a programmer's perspective. Like a compiler that sometimes reorders the execution of instructions for higher performance, or an operating system that sometimes stores random access memory on disk, virtual synchrony sometimes reorders events in ways that improve performance, and yet won't be noticeable to applications.\n\nUsing the virtual synchrony model, it is relatively easy to maintain fault-tolerant replicated data in a consistent state. One can then build higher level abstractions over the basic replication mechanisms. For example, many virtual synchrony libraries also support tools for building distributed key-value stores, replicating external files or databases, locking or otherwise coordinating the actions of group members, etc.\n\nVirtual synchrony replication is used mostly when applications are replicating information that evolves extremely rapidly. As discussed further below, the kinds of applications that would need this model include multiuser role-playing games, air traffic control systems, stock exchanges, and telecommunication switches. Of course, there are other ways to solve the same problems. For example, most of today's online multiuser role-playing games give users a sense that they are sharing replicated data, but in fact the data lives in a server on a data center, and any information passes through the data centers. Those games probably wouldn't use models like virtual synchrony, at present. However, as they push towards higher and higher data rates, taking the server out of the critical performance path becomes important, and with this step, models such as virtual synchrony are potentially valuable.\n\nThe trend towards cloud computing has increased interest in consistent state replication. Cloud computing systems are large virtualized data centers, operated by internet search or commerce firms such as IBM, Microsoft, Google and Amazon. Inside a cloud computing platform one finds services such as lock management systems (Google's is called Chubby, and Yahoo! uses one called Zookeeper), and these are implemented using virtual synchrony or closely related models. Other services that might be implemented using virtual synchrony include the cluster management tools that relaunch failed applications when nodes in a cluster crash, event notification tools that inform applications when significant events occur, and logging tools that help an application save its state for replay during recovery.\n\nVirtual Synchrony is a popular computing model, closely related to the transactional one-copy serializability model (used mostly in replicated database systems) and the state machine (consensus) model, sometimes known as \"Paxos\", the name given to the most widely cited state-machine implementation.\n\n\nThe basic goal for all of these protocols is to replicate data in a distributed system in a manner that makes the replicated entity indistinguishable from a non-replicated object implementing the same interface. For example, if we imagine a simple variable, \"x\", that can be read or written to, a replicated version might consist of some set of replicas \"x\", \"x\", ... \"x\" and an associated protocol, such that reads and writes to the replicates are performed in a way that looks indistinguishable from reads and writes to the original variable. The challenge is to deal with cases in which multiple updates are initiated concurrently (sometimes called an edit conflict), or where a failure disrupts an update while it is still in progress. When we create a process group, the idea is that each of its members will hold a replica. Updates are delivered to the group members through an event notification interface implemented in a way that eliminates these kinds of problems.\n\nThe central difference between the three models is that virtual synchrony assumes that the variable is replicated \"in memory\" by a set of processes executing on some collection of machines in a network. Transactional one-copy serializability assumes that the data resides in a collection of transactional databases (on disk), and implements the full transactional ACID properties, with the usual begin/commit/abort interface. State-machine consensus lies somewhere in the middle: the variables are assumed to be persistent (for example they might be stored in files), but are not assumed to have full ACID properties, and access is not assumed to go through a transactional begin/commit/abort interface.\n\nNone of the three models is particularly difficult to support in a system where the set of participating processes is stable, and where messages are delivered reliably. However, in real networks, computers can crash or become disconnected and messages can be lost. The need to preserve the properties of the model while masking failures and maintaining high performance is what makes the data replication problem so difficult.\n\nAll three models assume that machines may fail by crashing: a computer halts, or some process on it halts, and other processes sense the failure by timeout. Timeout, of course, is a potentially inaccurate way to sense failures (timeouts always discover true crashes, but sometimes a timeout will trigger for some other reason, such as a transient connectivity problem.) A platform implementing any of these models must provide the programmer with a set of system calls that allows him or her to write code that will continue to respect the model even if these kinds of problems occur. In effect, the platform hides this difficult fault-tolerance problem from the programmer.\n\nNone of the three models can handle more complex failures, such as machines that are taken over by a virus, or a network that sometimes modifies the messages transmitted. The so-called Byzantine agreement model goes beyond the data replication schemes discussed here by also solving such issues, but does so at a price: Byzantine replication protocols typically require larger numbers of servers, and can be much slower.\n\nVirtual synchrony is useful for more than just replicating data, although replication is probably the most common use. Other mechanisms that can be constructed \"over\" a virtual synchrony platform include:\n\n\n\nAmong the three models, virtual synchrony achieves the highest levels of performance, but this comes at a cost: to gain higher performance the programmer must relax ordering and employ optimistic early delivery features that expose the service to some risk of inconsistency. Virtual synchrony implementations employ a primitive called \"flush\" to force the service back into a consistent state before interactions with external clients or storage systems. The effect is to offer a very strong model, but only if the various features are employed correctly.\n\nThe Paxos and transactional models guarantee a higher degree of durability in the presence of crashes, and are sometimes perceived as easier to use, but at the price of sharply reduced performance and scalability. Both models need to first ensure that an update is recorded in a write-ahead log before any process can actually perform the update. This introduces a form of two-phase commit into the protocol, and hence slows things down: first the update is sent and logged, and all members confirm that they have it, and only then is it performed. In contrast, virtual synchrony implementations with in-memory data replication can generally update a replicated variable as soon as a message describing the update reaches the relevant group members. They can stream high rates of updates by packing multiple updates into a single message.\n\nTo give some sense of the relative speed, experiments with 4-node replicated variables undertaken on the Isis and Horus systems in the 1980s suggested that virtual synchrony implementations in typical networks were about 100 times faster than state-machine replication using Paxos, and about 1000 to 10,000 times faster than full-fledged transactional one-copy-serializability. Of course, these sorts of order of magnitude numbers are highly sensitive to the implementation and choice of platform, but they also reflect underlying obligations within the protocols used to implement the models. Modern systems like the Spread Toolkit, Quicksilver, and Corosync can achieve data rates of 10,000 multicasts per second or more, and can scale to large networks with huge numbers of groups or processes.\n\nMost distributed computing platforms support one or more of these models. For example, the widely supported object-oriented CORBA platforms all support transactions and some CORBA products support transactional replication in the one-copy-serializability model. The \"CORBA Fault Tolerant Objects standard\" is based on the virtual synchrony model. Virtual synchrony was also used in developing the New York Stock Exchange fault-tolerance architecture, the French Air Traffic Control System, the US Navy AEGIS system, IBM's Business Process replication architecture for WebSphere and Microsoft's Windows Clustering architecture for Windows Longhorn enterprise servers.\n\nVirtual synchrony is usually presented to programmers through a simple distributed programming library that supports at least three basic interfaces. First, a process (an executing program) can \"join\" a \"process group\". Each group has a name (a bit like a file name, although these names are interpreted within a network, not relative to a disk), and each has a list of members. The join primitive returns some form of handle on the group. The process can then register a \"handler\" for incoming events, and can send \"multicasts\" to the group.\n\nThe basic guarantee associated with the model is that all processes belonging to a group see the same events, in the same order. The platform senses failures (using timeouts) but reports them in a consistent manner to all group members. Multicast messages may be initiated concurrently by multiple senders, but will be delivered in some fixed order selected by the protocols implementing the model.\n\nNotice that the guarantee just described embodies what may seem to be a contradiction. We know that timeout cannot be used to detect failures accurately. Yet virtual synchrony lets the user treat failure notifications (view changes) as trustworthy, infallible events. The key insight is that virtual synchrony is implemented by a software system that creates an abstraction within which the user's code is executed. Thus, failure detection by the platform (using timeouts) triggers an internal agreement protocol (within the platform). Only when this protocol terminates is a fault event delivered to the application. The application is spared from needing to implement the agreement mechanism, and sees a simple and seemingly accurate fault notification event.\n\nEvents are of several types. First, each received multicast is delivered as an event. But membership changes in the group are also reported through events; these are called \"new views\" of the group. Moreover, when a process joins a group, some existing member is asked to create a \"checkpoint\": a message describing the state of the group at the time the process joined. This is reported to the new member as a \"state transfer\" event, and is used to initialize the joining process.\n\nFor example, suppose that an air traffic control system maintains some group associated with the airplanes flying in sector XYZ over Paris. Each air traffic controller who monitors that sector would have a process running on his or her machine, and these processes would join the XYZ group as they start up. The members would replicate the list of air traffic control plans and tracks associated with sector XYZ. Upon joining, a process would obtain a copy of the state of the sector as of the moment it joined, delivered as a checkpoint through a state transfer event. Loading such a checkpoint is analogous to reading a file that lists the current state of the sector. Later, as events occur that impact the status of the sector, they would be multicast so that all members of the group can see those events. Since each member is in the same state, and receives the same updates, each air traffic controller sees the same sector status and they see it evolve in the same manner. If a failure occurs, the surviving systems can take over roles that were previously held by the crashed one.\n\nThe three executions shown above illustrate the type of event reordering used in virtual synchrony systems. Each shows a set of processes (named p, q, etc.) executing as time elapses, from left to right. They interact by exchanging messages, which are shown as arrows from process to process. Notice that the three figures are quite similar but differ in seemingly small ways: in the first figure, the message-passing arrows are vertical, as if the sending of a message was an instantaneous event. In the second figure, the sending of a message takes \"time\", and we see this because the arrows are now slanted forward. In the third figure, some of the message sending arrows cross one another.\n\nWe will start by looking closely at figure 1 (you may wish to enlarge it so that you can see the arrows clearly). Consider the sequence of events that occur as time elapses, from left to right.\n\nAt the start, p creates a process group and is its only member. Then q joins and with p's help, initializes itself. The heavy arrow denotes the creation of a checkpoint by p, which is copied to q, and then loaded by q. Perhaps this group lists air traffic control state for some sector over Paris. Now t, a non-member, asks the group some question. It sends a message, and the group members cooperate to respond (perhaps they each search half of an ATC database—after all, each knows that the group has two members and each knows its own rank, so parallel computing becomes easy! Next we see some update messages—multicasts—exchanged by p and q. Process r joins the group, but q either crashes or fails. Notice that each event is seen in the identical order by all the members. This makes it easy to track the evolving group state. Some would call this a state machine execution.\n\nWhat makes a virtually synchronous system \"virtual\" rather than \"real\" is that the synchronous event ordering is actually an illusion. If the timing in the system isn't perfectly synchronized, messages may be delivered with some delays (Figure 2). Now, the delays in question may not be significant to human perception. But how can the application know what order to process the events in? We can't use true clock time for this: even with GPS clocks, synchronization won't be better than a few milliseconds.\n\nIn a worst-case scenario, events genuinely happen out of order (Figure 3). The point this figure is intended to make is that sometimes, a system can deliver events out of order—and yet \"the application might not notice.\" We'll discuss cases in which this occurs momentarily. By deviating from the synchronous order, virtual synchrony systems gain speed and improve fault-tolerance (they are less likely to experience correlated crashes where some message causes all the members to crash simultaneously).\n\nIn virtual synchrony systems, the application programmer signals to the platform what form of ordering is really needed. For example, the programmer might indicate that multicast \"m\" updates different data than multicast \"n\". Virtual synchrony software systems make it easy to do this sort of thing, although we won't delve into the details here. Basically, the programmer says \"you can deliver messages m and n in any order you like, because my application won't notice\". When permitted to do so, the communication system can now save time by not delaying messages under conditions where providing identical delivery order for \"n\" and \"m\" would have introduced extra cost and thereby slowed down the data rate.\n\nWhen could we get away with this sort of thing? The answer usually depends on the application. But one good example arises if a group is maintaining data about some collection of objects that tend to be accessed independently. For example, perhaps the group represents the rooms in a multi-user role-playing game. Users are only in \"one\" room at a time, hence multicasts that update data in different rooms can be delivered in different orders. If a user sees one such multicast (e.g. that user happens to be in Sarah's Ice Cream shop when the a message is delivered that causes the telephone to ring), they won't see the other one (because it affected the state of some other room). Returning to our air traffic control example, different groups might represent different sectors of the sky, at which point the same kinds of options arise. A programmer designing such an application will often have simple ways to realize that this is the case, and can then signal this through an appropriate system-call.\n\nWhy bother? The key question relates to the speed of the application: a communication system gains performance as its ordering obligations are relaxed. Thus, virtual synchrony is motivated by a performance objective. The system seeks to be as fast as an unreliable UDP multicast and yet to have strong fault-tolerance and ordering guarantees, similar to those of Paxos.\n\nWe mentioned that there is a sense in which virtual synchrony is a \"weaker\" model than transactional one-copy serializability or state machine consensus in the style of Paxos. Partly this relates to ordering: virtual synchrony often weakens the message delivery ordering to gain performance. As mentioned above, doing so can sometimes increase robustness too. If different copies sometimes process events in different orders (doing so only when this won't have any impact on the ultimate state of the object), the copies may still be somewhat more robust against messages that cause exceptions. After all, many bugs are exquisitely sensitive to the exact sequence of events that a process experiences, so processes that see the same things but in different orders can often survive problems that would be fatal in some specific ordering.\n\nBut the other sense in which virtual synchrony is a weaker model relates to exactly what happens when some process crashes. Suppose that process p sends a multicast to a group G, and then p and some member of the group, say q, both crash. No process that remains operational has a copy of the multicast. What should the platform do?\n\nIn virtual synchrony, the group continues executing as if no message was ever sent. After all, there is no \"evidence\" to the contrary. P and q have both crashed, so they won't behave in a manner inconsistent with the model. Yet it is possible that q received p's message and delivered it to the application right before the crash. So there is a case in which virtual synchrony seems to lie: it behaves as if no message was sent, and yet the crashed processes might actually have exchanged a message.\n\nThis never happens in Paxos or transactional systems, which makes them a good match for updating database files on a disk. In both systems, if q later recovers and rejoins the group, any data it collected prior to crashing will still be valid, except to the extent that it missed updates delivered to the other group members while it was down. The cost of this guarantee is, however, quite high. Asynchronous Paxos, and transactional systems, impose a long delay before any process can deliver a message. First, these platforms make sure that the message reaches all of its destinations, asking them to delay the incoming message before delivering it. Only after the first step is completed are recipients told that it is safe to deliver the message to the application. (In one variant on these models, the platform only makes sure that a \"quorum\" (a majority) receive the message, but the delay is comparable).\n\nThe delay associated with this extra round of communication can have a big impact on performance.\n\nExperience with virtual synchrony shows that for most applications, the weak but fast form of delivery is just fine. For rare cases where stronger guarantees are needed, the application programmer can request that a slower delivery be performed, paying an infrequent higher price, but only when necessary. The resulting performance will be much higher than if the slower, more conservative delivery property was used for every message.\n\nVirtual synchrony was first supported by the Cornell University and was called the \"Isis Toolkit\". Cornell's most current version, Vsync was released in 2013 under the name Isis2 (the name was changed from Isis2 to Vsync in 2015 in the wake of a terrorist attack in Paris by an extremist organization called ISIS), with periodic updates and revisions since that time. The most current stable release is V2.2.2020; it was released on November 14, 2015; the V2.2.2048 release is currently available in Beta form. Vsync aims at the massive data centers that support cloud computing.\n\nOther such systems include the \"Horus system\", the Transis system, the Totem system, an IBM system called Phoenix, a distributed security key management system called Rampart, the \"Ensemble system\", the Quicksilver system, \"The OpenAIS project\", its derivative the Corosync Cluster Engine and a number of products (including the IBM and Microsoft ones mentioned earlier). At the time of this writing, virtual synchrony toolkits that programmers can use to implement new virtually synchronous applications include the Spread Toolkit, JGroups, the C-Ensemble system, Appia, Quicksilver, and the Corosync Cluster Engine.\n\nReliable Distributed Systems: Technologies, Web Services and Applications. K.P. Birman. Springer Verlag (1997). \"Textbook, covers a broad spectrum of distributed computing concepts, including virtual synchrony.\"\n\nDistributed Systems: Principles and Paradigms (2nd Edition). Andrew S. Tanenbaum, Maarten van Steen (2002). \"Textbook, covers a broad spectrum of distributed computing concepts, including virtual synchrony.\"\n\n\"The process group approach to reliable distributed computing\". K.P. Birman, Communications of the ACM (CACM) 16:12 (Dec. 1993). \"Written for non-experts.\"\n\n\"Group communication specifications: a comprehensive study\" Gregory V. Chockler, Idit Keidar,\nRoman Vitenberg. ACM Computing Surveys 33:4 (2001). \"Introduces a mathematical formalism for these kinds of models, then uses it to compare their expressive power and their failure detection assumptions.\"\n\n\"Practical Impact of Group Communication Theory.\" Andre Schiper. Future Directions in Distributed Computing. Springer Verlag Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2584 (July 2005). \"A history of the area, assumes familiarity with the general topic.\"\n\n\"The part-time parliament\". Leslie Lamport. ACM Transactions on Computing Systems (TOCS), 16:2 (1998). \"Introduces the Paxos implementation of replicated state machines.\"\n\n\"Exploiting virtual synchrony in distributed systems\". K.P. Birman and T. Joseph. Proceedings of the 11th ACM Symposium on Operating systems principles (SOSP), Austin Texas, Nov. 1987. \"Earliest use of the term, but probably not the best exposition of the topic.\"\n\n\"Reflections on the History of Operating Systems Research in Fault Tolerance\". K.P. Birman. Essay accompanying a lecture delivered at the ACM SIGOPS History Day Workshop in November 2015, associated with the 25th ACM Symposium on Operating systems principles (SOSP), Monterey California, Nov. 2015. \"A broad overview of research on fault-tolerance by the distributed computing community, with discussion of the evolution of the virtual synchrony and Paxos protocols and comparison of their characteristics, as well as on the so-called CATOCS controversy of the 1993 period and the CAP conjecture, which is in many ways a more contemporary revisiting of CATOCS.\"\n"}
{"id": "35533361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35533361", "title": "Xuedou Zhijian", "text": "Xuedou Zhijian\n\nXuedou Zhijian (; Pinyin: Xuědòu Zhìjiàn; ), was a Chinese Zen Buddhist monk during the Song Dynasty. He was born in an ancient town called Chuzhou in what is now Anhui Province. The details of his life have not survived in great detail. In 1154, he is known to have become the abbot of Xizhen Temple near modern Hangzhou. He moved again in 1184 to Mount Xuedou, where he was said to have many students. In the years leading up to his death in 1192, he apparently lived in seclusion in a cottage to the east of his temple.According to the \"Conglin shengshi\" (Glorious matters from the monasteries), written in 1199 by Guyue Daorong, Zhijian wrote a popular verse that poked fun at the renowned teacher Hongzhi Zhengjue. The verse is: “Obtaining one Zong, losing one Chong; Joining his palms in front, beating his chest in back.” \"Zong\" refers to a well-known student of Hongzhi named Sizong, while \"Puchong\" is a reference to Yetang Puchong, a student who studied under Hongzhi, but later left to study under Caotang Shanqing, a teacher of the rival Rinzai/Linji school.\n"}
{"id": "2346802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2346802", "title": "Yamazaki Ansai", "text": "Yamazaki Ansai\n\nBorn in Kyoto on January 24, 1619, Yamazaki Ansai was the son of a former rōnin-turned-doctor and the last of four children. In his youth, he was strongly influenced by both his mother and grandmother. While his mother \"urged him to develop a noble heart worthy of a samurai's son,\" his grandmother supported him in his study of the Chinese language. In his preteens, he was sent by his father to serve as an acolyte at a Buddhist temple on Mount Hiei. In his early teens, Ansai returned home, and after several years was finally permitted to enter the Myōshin-ji temple of the Rinzai Zen sect in Kyoto for further study. Due to his incredible scholarly aptitude, in his early twenties he was granted entrance to the Gyūkō-ji temple in Tosa. During his time at Tosa, he was strongly advised by his fellow monks to concentrate his studies on the teachings of Neo-Confucian scholars, thereby beginning the process of Ansai's conversion to Neo-Confucianism and ultimate rejection of Buddhism. Ansai was particularly captivated by the writings of the Song dynasty scholar, Zhu Xi (Chu Hsi), which later became the basis of Ansai's moral philosophy/teachings. At twenty eight, he returned to Kyoto, and under the patronage of Nonaka Kenzan, was able to continue his Neo Confucian studies, as well as begin to publish his own materials. With the production of his first work \"Heresies Refuted\" (Heikii, 1647), an outright rejection of Buddhist faith, Ansai fully embraced \"the One True Way\" of Neo Confucianism.\n\nAfter his first publication, Ansai spent the remaining thirty-five years of his life writing, publishing, editing, annotating, and punctuating Confucian and Shinto texts (that accumulated to over two thousand pages). The decade following Tosa (1647–1657), Ansai lived, studied, and taught in Kyoto. There, he edited and published a great number of texts (mostly commentaries on the works of Chu Hsi). Ansai also frequently went to Edo, to give lectures on Neo-Confucianism in front of a large number of daimyōs. In 1655, he established a private school in Kyoto, began his first lecture cycle in the spring of the same year, and finished it at the end of 1656.\n\nAnsai's group of Confucian disciples was collectively referred to as the \"Kimon school\". His lectures focused on Ansai's own, hand selected canon. His canon consisted mostly of the classic Confucian writings that Zhu Xi had emphasized: the \"Elementary Learning\", the \"Reflections on Things at Hand\", and the \"Four Books\" (the \"Great Learning\", the \"Doctrine of the Mean\", the \"Analects of Confucius\", and the \"Mencius\"). However, he also included Cheng Yi's Commentary on the \"Book of Changes\". In the 1660s and 1670s, Ansai (following the example of Zhu Xi) personally edited the six books that comprised his canon.\n\nAs a teacher, Ansai was described by his students as \"extremely strict, sometimes scary, and short tempered.\" Generally speaking, Ansai had a reputation for being \"single minded, doctrinate, and intolerant.\" Kaibara Ekken, a contemporary of Ansai's, had attended several of his lectures, and found Ansai to be: \"severe, dogmatic, and more interested in strict moral discipline than in investigation of the principles for practical learning.\" Such prominent Neo-Confucian scholars as Kinoshita Jun'an, Asami Keisai, Miyake Shōsai, and Satō Naokata were included amongst Ansai's followers of the Kimon school.\n\nIn 1658, Ansai moved to Edo, where he spent the next 7 years of his life, continuing his studying of Neo-Confucian texts, as well as beginning his research on a never completed historiography of Japan (based upon Shinto texts). In 1665, after building up a reputation in both Edo and Kyoto as an extraordinary teacher, was invited by Hoshina Masayuki (the daimyō of Aizu) to become his teacher. Ansai accepted the position and spent the next seven years of his life as the personal teacher of Neo-Confucian philosophy to Masayuki. For tutoring Masayuki for six out of the twelve months of the year, Ansai was given a salary of 100 gold ryō, two seasonal garments, and one haori coat.\n\nAlthough Ansai and Masayuki were said to share a close relationship, Ansai refused to become his vassal, declaring that Confucian scholars should remain autonomous of another individual's influence. Masayuki proved to be Ansai's intellectual equal, helping him compile five different works: two gazetteers for the Aizu domain, and three Confucian texts: \"Gyokusan kōgi furoku\" (Appendix to Zhu Xi's lecture at Yushan), \"Nitei jikyōroku\" (Record of the two Cheng's political teachings), and the Irakusanshiden shinroku (Record of the mind-heart). During his years of service to Masayuki, Ansai compiled more writings of Zhu Xi during his off time in Kyoto. These included: \"Jinsetsumondō\" (Questions and answers on explanations of \"humaneness\"), \"Shōgaku mōyōshu\" and \"Daigaku keihatsu shū\" (Collections of [clarifications by Zhu Xi] on the \"Elementary Learning\" and the \"Great Learning\").\n\nDue to this relationship, Ansai is considered to be one of the scholars most closely associated with the Tokugawa Bakufu. Also, Ansai was able to receive the secret teachings of the \"Yoshida\" and \"Ise\" Shinto traditions, which he would use in attempting to reconstruct a \"pure Shinto\", that would reflect the Way of Neo-Confucianism.\n\nAfter Masayuki's death in 1672, Ansai returned to Kyoto, where he spent the last decade of his life. In his later years, Ansai's scholarly focus dramatically shifted toward his project of synchronizing Shinto and Confucian thought. Ansai's introduction of Shinto into his teachings ultimately caused a schism among his students, dividing them into two groups: those who followed Ansai's Confucianism, and those who followed his Shinto. Very few were able to do both. In 1680, when Ansai put forth a radical re-interpretation of the \"Great Learning\" that defied traditional Confucian thought, he had a falling out with two of his best students, Satō Naokata and Asami Keisai, who could not accept Ansai's new interpretation. Ultimately, Ansai expelled Naokata and Keisai. After this, most of his students coalesced around the two defrocked pupils, thinning out the ranks of Ansai's still loyal followers. With his formerly great school in ruins, Ansai died on September 16, 1682, and was buried at the Korotani mountain in Kyoto.\n\nAnsai's rejection of Buddhism was based upon what he perceived as a fundamental insufficiency/flaw in Buddhist moral principles. In Neo Confucianism, Ansai had found the \"Truth\": the universal and eternal cosmic Way that could not be found in Buddhism. His critique was based upon two, interconnected fallacies that he perceived in Buddhist thought. First, Ansai believed that Buddhism lacked a normative system for informing ethical behavior (stemming from his interpretation that the Buddhist notion of nature (\"sei\") as nothingness or emptiness, was a metaphysical, and not an ethical ideal). Due to this, Buddhism contained no theory of \"mind-heart\", and thus, was inadequate for cultivating the mind (both of which were integral to Ansai's ethical thought). From Ansai's Neo-Confucian perspective, the mind was full (being inherently imbued with the concepts of the \"Five Relationships\" and the \"Five Virtues\"), not empty (as he believed Buddhism perceived it). In the latter part of his life, when Ansai was attempting to prove the ontological unity of Shinto and Confucianism, he proclaimed that before the arrival of Buddhism to Japan, early Shinto and Confucianism were identical. He blamed the influence of Buddhist thought for creating a false dichotomy between the two systems (which in Ansai's view differed only in name).\n\nAnsai's teachings were seen to be part of a larger Neo-Confucian trend of the early Tokugawa period, referred to by Abe Yoshino as the \"rigaku\" (school of principle). Compared to the \"kigaku\" (school of material force), \"rigaku\"'s primary focus was on moral cultivation and spirituality. Its followers considered \"ri\" (Chinese \"li\": reason, rational principle, or law) to be a transcendent principle. Although Ansai was part of this larger movement, in no way did he see himself as an \"innovator\" of Neo-Confucianism. Rather, he saw himself as a \"servant of Truth,\" a \"transmitter of \"the Way\",\" and believed nothing of what he taught to be novel, since everything about \"the Way\" had already been said by the Confucian Sages. In particular, Ansai believed he was a \"faithful transmitter\" of the writings of both Zhu Xi, and the Korean Neo-Confucian Yi T'oegye (1507–1570), with special emphasis on Zhu's teachings. Because of this, most of Ansai's Neo Confucian writings tended to be publications of Zhu Xi's works, with his own commentaries.\n\nAlthough some of Ansai's teachings varied slightly from Zhu Xi's, the foundation of Ansai's thought was deeply grounded in\nZhu's most fundamental premises. The foremost of these was Zhu Xi's cosmological belief that the principles of reason and morality (\"li\"), were the same as mankind's original nature (i.e. that the principles that guide and move the universe, are exactly the same as those that inform man's ethical behavior). Therefore, by pursuing \"li\", an individual was simultaneously \"developing the potential of one's inner nature to guide on in behaving correctly.\" If an individual could endure it, he would be able to bring his own natural inclinations into perfect harmony with principles of universal morality. Zhu Xi saw this fulfillment of potential as the ideal state of human existence, and only possible to achieve if one were to obey one's allotted moral duty, given their relative position in society. Depending on their social role, the duties of the individual differed, as did the principles upon which they were grounded. However, Zhu Xi did not view this as problematic, since each of these principles was merely a different manifestation of the same general principle of morality, found in every human being. Xi believed that fulfilling one's proper social role was a means of understanding the universal principle of human morality (li). He referred to such a process as the \"plumbing of principle\". To perfect one's natural, innate potential was at the same time to realize one's self as an autonomous being.\n\nLike Zhu Xi, Ansai firmly believed that an individual's moral duties reflected his specific social position (\"meibun\"). However, instead of focusing on the \"plumbing of principle\" (which he believed the average person was incapable of achieving) Ansai believed in order to properly achieve \"meibun\", what was primary was an attitude of reverence (\"kei\" or \"tsutsushimi\"): steadiness of the mind and guarded behavior. Since Zhu considered reverence to be the necessary precondition for the \"plumbing of principle\", Ansai believed that reverence was the essential element of Zhu's moral thought. To this end, he placed great emphasis on a particular passage of Zhu Xi's: \"Reverence within, righteousness without.\" Reverence was the means by which one achieved the desired end of self-cultivation, necessary to fulfill the moral duties prescribed to an individual by their rigid, social obligations. Realizing one's social obligations and maintaining an orderly, hierarchical society were the highest duties that an individual and mankind (respectively) had to fulfill. This notion stems from Ansai's morality, cosmology, and the interconnectedness between the two (all based in Zhu Xi's thought).\n\nLike Zhu Xi, Ansai believed that the principles that guided the cosmic order were the same as the ethical principles that informed mankind's original nature (i.e. the same set of principles guided the cosmic, as well as the human world). Not only was there an inherent connection between the macrocosm (cosmos) and microcosm (humans), but they mutually influenced each other in a reciprocal and parallel manner. Just as the cosmic principles actively affect mankind (by informing humans of their natural, moral imperatives), so do human beings actively affect the cosmic order through their collective behavior. This is why Ansai believed it was a moral imperative for human beings to achieve unity with the cosmos. By understanding the ethical principles, they could simultaneously understand cosmic principles and positively affect not only themselves, but the universe as well. He linked morality with the \"Five Evolutive phases\", to show that not only are cosmic and moral principles natural and inevitable, but that they mutually influence one another. Physicist and philosopher Max Bernhard Weinstein found these views to be especially consonant with the theological theory of Pandeism.\n\nBecause cosmologically everything was interconnected, Ansai believed that the actions of an individual (in a similar manner to modern chaos theory) affect the entire universe. He stressed the Confucian concept of \"Great Learning\", in which a person's actions (the center of a series of concentric circles) extend outward toward the family, society, and finally to the cosmos. The \"Five Virtues\" (all contained in the idea of reverence and inherent in man's original nature) direct the \"Five Relationships\", between: parent and child (humaneness), lord and vassal (righteousness/duty), husband and wife (propriety), elder and younger (wisdom), and friend and friend (faithfulness). There are five steps which Zhu Xi advocated to perfect these relationships (and virtues): \"study wisely, question thoroughly, deliberate carefully, analyze clearly, and act conscientiously.\" For Ansai, learning was the means to the ends of morality. However, of all of the relationships (and virtues) that Ansai emphasized, the relationship between the lord and vassal (duty) was the most important. Departing from Zhu Xi (who saw humaneness as the most important virtue), Ansai believed that maintaining the social order (through duty to one's lord) was the highest responsibility that one had to fulfill.\n\nTo achieve reverence (the means toward personal cultivation) Ansai proposed quiet sitting. Through quiet sitting, Ansai believed that an individual could gain access to the storehouse of hidden knowledge (inherent in all individuals). This storehouse is where \"qi\" (the vital material force) resides. By channeling \"qi\", one is able to stimulate humaneness, which consequently triggers the other virtues. Through knowledge, virtue grows. Through virtue, one can act in proper accord with the outside world (and the cosmos in general). Thus, knowledge is the source by which an individual realizes his innate, human potential (as described by Zhu Xi).\n\nIn a failed attempt at creating a historiography of Japan, Ansai became intensely interested in Shinto's religious elements. From his own experience, Ansai believed that certain Shinto customs and rituals (such as funeral practices) reflected Confucian values. His \"Yamato shōgaku\" (\"Japanese Elementary Learning\"), published in 1658, although more focused on general social customs, marks a turning point in Ansai's thought, with its inclusion of various Shinto elements. In the latter part of his life, Ansai began a project of combining Neo-Confucian morality (based on Zhu Xi) with the religious elements of Shinto. Since Ansai believed in the ontological unity of everything, he believed that in the Shinto tradition, he could discover \"the Way\", rooted in Japanese society. Ansai's Confucian interpretation of Shinto mythology came to be known as \"Suika Shinto\". \"Suika\" means the act of praying to call the gods down, to receive worldly benefits. Drawing on the secret traditions of both Yoshida and Ise Shinto (as well as classic Shinto myths, such as found in the \"Kojiki\", \"Nihongi\", \"Shoku Nihongi\", \"Fudoki\", etc.), Ansai was able to \"uncover\" numerous Neo-Confucian values within Shinto texts. On November 23, 1672, he created the \"Record of the Fuji no mori Shrine\" (\"Fuji no mori yuzuemandokoro no ki\"), an essay that generally summarizes Ansai's views on Shinto and its connection to Neo-Confucian metaphysics.\n\nFrom the Shinto texts, he found particular moral values that he believed had counterparts in Confucianism. For example, he believed that the Confucian notion of reverence was the same as the Shinto idea of prayer (\"kitō\"). Righteousness (in Confucianism) was equivalent to the Shinto idea of honesty or forthrightness (\"massugu\" or \"shōjiki\"). In the opening chapters of the \"Nihongi\", Ansai explained that the five generations of earthly gods (\"kami\") were equivalent to the \"Five Evolutive Phases\", and that the pledge of Amaterasu to protect the divine lineage of her descendants, along with Yamato-hime's prophecy of \"keeping right what is right and left what is left,\" are expressions of the values of the Way (loyalty, selflessness, steadfast and vigilant mind).\n\nAlthough Ansai claimed he was trying to discover Confucian values within Shinto, his discoveries had a profound effect on his personal philosophy. From his interpretation of a passage from the \"Nihongi\", where Ō-ana-muchi converses with his own spirit, Ansai believed that every person's body is a shrine, that houses a living spirit. In effect, every person's physical heart contained a living god, and out of reverence to the gods, one should worship the self. He believed this to be analogous to the Confucian practice of self-cultivation.\n\nAnsai's interpretations of Shinto texts also (surprisingly) led to his affirmation of the political order of the Tokugawa Bakufu. He believed that just as much as the emperor, the bakufu was part of the sacred political order (and that these warriors were exemplified in the archetype of Susanoo). By divine mandate, the bakufu had been entrusted to protect the political realm, in the name of the emperor. This political order, for Ansai, reflected the greater cosmic unity of heaven and man. Due to his belief in this unity, Ansai challenged the traditional Confucian notion of the \"Mandate of Heaven\", where a ruler was held accountable for the welfare of his subjects, and could lose his legitimacy if he did not act in proper accord. However, Ansai believed that challenging political authority was paramount to disrupting the harmonic balance between heaven and man. Therefore, a subject must pledge his undying, unconditional loyalty to his master. This idea caused a great controversy amongst Ansai's followers in the Kimon school, as well as amongst his Suika Shinto disciples.\n\nIn his book \"Tokugawa Ideology\", Herman Ooms describes Ansai's analysis of Shinto texts as being grounded in \"hermeneutic operations\", proceeding along four levels of interpretation. The first level is literal. From Ooms' perspective, Ansai believed the Shinto texts he read to be records of historical facts. The kami existed and Ansai believed in them. Second, Ansai employs an allegorical interpretation of the text, by analogically equating symbols he found within Shinto texts as expressions of Confucian truths. Third, Ansai interpreted the texts on a moral level, drawing ethical paradigms out of Shinto myths. The last level was anagogical, whereby Ansai argued for the supremacy of the Japanese nation (relative to all others), using his own interpretations of Shinto texts. Although often Ansai is criticized for his 'torturous rationalizations\" found in Suika Shinto, Ooms argues that what distinguishes Ansai from other Neo-Confucian scholars of his time was the \"systematic structure of his thought.\"\n\nYamazaki Ansai was part of a larger movement in the early Tokugawa era that revived and helped proliferate Neo-Confucian thought in Japan. He was the first to introduce the writings of the Korean Neo-Confucian scholar Yi T'ogeye to Japan, and was instrumental in popularizing Zhu Xi's thought (partly due to his connections with the government). His political theory was appropriated by the Tokugawa Bakufu, as a means to legitimate the suppression of political contestation.\n\nThe institutions that Ansai had created (the Kimon school and Suika Shinto) did not last for very long (in their original forms, as Ansai had intended). However, the power of Ansai's ideas and the influence he exerted on a large number of his students have had vast repercussions. Ansai's Suika Shinto transformed Shinto into a political ideology that was later incorporated by ultra-nationalist thinkers in the 18th and 19th centuries. In his scholarly research of Shinto texts, Ansai was able to break the monopoly on Shinto doctrine, by freeing it from the private storehouses of specialist Shinto circles (Yoshida, Ise), and thereby making it available for future generations to freely study and interpret.\n\nAlthough the Kimon school suffered from various schisms (both during and after Ansai's time), its lineage has lasted until present times. After Ansai's death, his students continued to preach some form of his Confucian or Suika Shinto thought, to both commoners and Bakufu officials alike. A large number of Kimon scholars later filled the ranks of the Bakufu College during the Kansei Reforms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7480388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7480388", "title": "Yehezkel Kaufmann", "text": "Yehezkel Kaufmann\n\nYehezkel Kaufmann (Hebrew: יחזקאל קויפמן; also: Yeḥezqêl Qâufman; Yeḥezḳel Ḳoyfman; Jehezqël Kaufmann) (1889 – 9 October 1963) was an Israeli philosopher and Biblical scholar associated with the Hebrew University. His main contribution to the study of biblical religion was his thesis that Israel's monotheism was not a gradual development from paganism but entirely new.\nYehezkel Kaufmann was born in Ukraine. His Talmudic knowledge was acquired at the yeshiva of Rabbi Chaim Cernowitz (Rav Tzair) in Odessa and in Petrograd, and his philosophical and Biblical training were at the University of Berne. He completed his doctorate on \"the principle of sufficient reason\" in 1918, and had it published in 1920 in Berlin. He began teaching in Palestine in 1928 and became Professor of Bible at Hebrew University in 1949.\n\nKaufmann was the author of dozens of publications, almost exclusively in Hebrew. In 1920, he published \"Against the claims of the phenomenological approach of Husserl\", but this was to be his last publication on abstract philosophy.\n\nHis first major work was \"Exile and Estrangement: A Socio-Historical Study on the Issue of the Fate of the Nation of Israel from Ancient Times until the Present\" (1930), in which he suggests that what preserved Israel's uniqueness through the ages was solely its religion. Among the basic themes of this work is that it is the \"tension\" between \"universalism\" and \"nationalism\" that comprises the foundational problem of Judaism. This tension reaches back to the earliest eras of Judaism in which a universalistic conception of God was juxtaposed with the local socio-political issues of a small tribal people, even after that people had been exiled from its homeland. YHVH is the ruler of the entire universe, but he reveals Himself and His commandments only to Israel. It is this same tension which Kaufmann traces to the more modern phenomenon of exile and ghettoization. Among Kaufmann's contentious positions were his belief that Zionism could not provide the ultimate solution to the Jewish problem.\n\nKaufmann's best-known work is the massive תולדות האמונה הישראלית, (Toledot HaEmunah HaYisraelit) \"The Religion of Israel, from Its Beginnings to the Babylonian Exile\" (1960), encompassing the history of religion and Biblical literature. The work is important both because of its profound scope, and because it offered a critical approach to Biblical study which was nevertheless in opposition to the theories of Julius Wellhausen, which dominated Biblical study at that time (Hyatt 1961). Among Kaufmann's opinions expressed in this work are that neither a symbiotic nor syncretistic relationship obtained between the ancient Canaanites and Israelites. External influences on the Israelite religion occurred solely prior to the time of Moses. However, Monotheism – which on Kaufmann's view began at the time of Moses – was not the result of influences from any surrounding cultures, but was solely an Israelite phenomenon. After the adoption of Monotheism, Israelite belief is found to be free from mythological foundations, to the extent that the Scriptures do not even \"understand\" paganism (which, on Kauffman's view, is any religion other than Judaism, Christianity, or Islam (Hyatt 1961)). Kaufmann summed up his position in these words: \"Israelite religion was an original creation of the people of Israel. It was absolutely different from anything the pagan world knew; its monotheistic world view has no antecedents in paganism.\"\n\nThe occasional worship of Baal was never an organic movement of the people, but instead was only promoted by the royal court, mainly under Ahab and Jezebel. What idol-worship the Scriptures speak of was only \"vestigial fetishistic idolatry,\" and not a genuine attachment of the people to such forms of worship, or the influence of foreign culture.\n\nKaufmann sees the classical \"apostle-prophet\" or \"messenger-prophet\" of the Prophetic literature (Nevi'im) as a uniquely Israelite phenomenon, the culmination of a long process of religious development not in any way influenced by surrounding cultures. This position is in most ways quite traditional; for example, it accords well with Rambam's statement that \"Yet that an individual should make a claim to prophecy on the ground that God had spoken to him and had sent him on a mission was a thing never heard of prior to \"Moses our Master\"\" (\"GP\" I:63, S. Pines, 1963). The major innovation of the prophets was thus not the creation of the religion of Israel \"de novo\" (since this had already existed, and had facilitated their own emergence), but rather the unique focus on the ethical aspect of religion, the shift in primacy from cult to morality and the insistence that the fulfillment of God's will lay in the moral domain.\n\nKaufmann regards the non-prophetic parts of scripture as reflecting an earlier stage of the Israelite religion. While he accepts the existence of the three primary sources JE, P, and D, he claims – in opposition to Wellhausen and others – that the P-source significantly predates the Babylonian exile and Deuteronomy. Supporting this view, according to Kaufmann, is that the P-source does not recognize centralization of the cult, and deals only with issues related to the local sacrificial rituals. He suggests that the historiographical parts of Scripture did not receive the heavy editing that is posited by biblical criticism of the time.\n\nKaufmann's Toldot Ha'Emunah Ha'Yisraelit is a massive, 4-volume work, written, of course, in Hebrew. A well-written and highly accessible alternative is the one-volume English language translation and abridgement by Prof. Moshe Greenberg, entitled \"The Religion of Israel, by Yehezkel Kaufmann\", published by the University of Chicago, 1960.\n\nKaufmann wrote commentaries on the Book of Joshua and the Book of Judges.\n\nIn 1933, Kaufmann was awarded the first Bialik Prize for Jewish thought. He was awarded the prize again in 1956.\n\nIn 1958, he was awarded the Israel Prize, in Jewish studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31546574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31546574", "title": "Zayn al-Din Omar Savaji", "text": "Zayn al-Din Omar Savaji\n\nZayn al-Din Omar Savaji () was a Persian philosopher and logician.\n\nHe was born in Saveh (modern Arak province in Iran) in the early 12th century. After serving as a judge in his native city, he went to pursue scholarly interests in Neyshapur. He earned his living by being a copyist of manuscripts, primarily of philosophical texts.\n\nFive of his works have been published, three are still in manuscript form and the rest are unknown or possible misattributions. His works on logic, in which he made innovative proposals for the use of Persian in place of Arabic terms, were especially influential. He among the few Muslim philosophers who quested the Aristotelian method. He proposed a revisions in the order of the subject matter in Organon. He is cited frequently in the later Iranian philosophical tradition, though he has remained almost unknown to Western historians of philosophy and logic.\n"}
