{"id": "3096313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3096313", "title": "A Tourist Guide to Lancre", "text": "A Tourist Guide to Lancre\n\nA Tourist Guide To Lancre is the third book in the \"Discworld Mapp\" series, and the first to be illustrated by Paul Kidby. As with the other maps, the basic design and booklet were compiled by Terry Pratchett and Stephen Briggs.\n\nThe Mapp shows the mountain country of Lancre, with the Ramtops drawn in a vertigo-inducing perspective shot, rather than as a relief diagram. The accompanying booklet details the history, geography and folklore of the country, with contributions from both Gytha Ogg (anticipating the style of \"Nanny Ogg's Cookbook\") and Eric Wheelbrace, the Discworld's most famous hillwalker (a parody of Alfred Wainwright).\n"}
{"id": "1826924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826924", "title": "Abraham Zacuto", "text": "Abraham Zacuto\n\nAbraham Zacuto (, , also Abraham ben Samuel Zacut and Abraham Zacut) (Salamanca, August 12, 1452 – Damascus, probably 1515) was a Spanish astronomer, astrologer, mathematician, rabbi and historian who served as Royal Astronomer in the 15th century to King John II of Portugal. The crater Zagut on the Moon is named after him.\n\nZacuto was born in Salamanca, Spain in 1452. He may have studied and taught astronomy at the University of Salamanca. He later was for a time teacher of astronomy at the universities of Zaragoza and then Cartagena. He was versed in Jewish Law, and was rabbi of his community.\n\nWith the general expulsion of the Jews from Spain in 1492, Zacuto took refuge in Lisbon, Portugal. Already famous in academic circles, he was invited to court and nominated Royal Astronomer and Historian by King John II of Portugal, a position which he held until the early reign of Manuel I. He was consulted by the king on the possibility of a sea route to India, a project which he supported and encouraged. Zacuto would be one of the few who managed to flee Portugal during the forced conversions and prohibitions of departure that Manuel I enacted, in order to keep the Jews in Portugal as nominal Christians for foreign policy reasons (see Expulsion of the Jews from Portugal). He fled first to Tunis, and later moved to Jerusalem. He died probably in 1515 in Jerusalem, however, other reports indicate his final home was the Hebrew community of Damascus and the death occurred in 1520. However, in a similar vein to other giants of the Jewish faith, such as Saadia, Maimonides and the Vilna Gaon, he followed the extremely old Jewish custom (believed to have begun in Babylon) of being buried as close to Jerusalem as possible. Zacuto had established his wish to make his death pilgrimage at a Passover gathering.\n\nZacuto developed a new type of astrolabe, specialized for practical determination of latitude while at sea, in contrast to earlier multipurpose devices intended for use ashore. Abraham Zacuto's principal claim to fame is the great astronomical treatise, written while he was in Salamanca, in Hebrew, with the title \"Ha-ḥibbur ha-gadol\" () (\"The Great Book\"), begun around 1470 and completed in 1478. It was composed of 65 detailed astronomical tables (ephemerides), with radix set in year 1473 and the meridian at Salamanca, charting the positions of the Sun, Moon and five planets. The calculations were based on the Alfonsine Tables and the works of earlier astronomers (notably of the 14th-century Majorcan school). Zacuto set out the data in a simple \"almanac\" format, with the positions of a planet easily interpolated between entries, making it quite easy to use.\n\nThe first Castilian translation was undertaken in 1481 by Juan de Salaya. Zacuto's Portuguese disciple Joseph Vizinus (Mestre José Vizinho, the much-valued physician and advisor of John II of Portugal) adapted it into a Latin translation, under the title \"Tabulae tabularum Celestium motuum sive Almanach perpetuum\" (\"Book of Tables on the celestial motions or the Perpetual Almanac\"), immediately along with a new Castilian translation, and arranged for its publication in 1496 by Abraão de Ortas in Leiria, Portugal. (one of the first books published in Portugal with a movable type printing press).\n\nZacuto's \"Almanach perpetuum\" (or \"Biur Luhoth\") helped immediately revolutionize ocean navigation. Prior to the \"Almanach\", navigators seeking to determine their position in the high seas had to correct for \"compass error\" (the deviation of the magnetic north from the true north) by recourse to the quadrant and the Pole Star. But this proved less useful as they approached the equator and the Pole Star began to disappear into the horizon. Zacuto's \"Almanach\" supplied the first accurate table of solar declination, allowing navigators to use the sun instead. As the quadrant could not be used to look directly at the sun, Portuguese navigators began using the astrolabe on board (an old land-based instrument to measure the height of the sun indirectly). Zacuto's tables in conjunction with the new metal nautical astrolabe allowed navigators to take accurate readings anywhere. Already in 1497, Vasco da Gama took Zacuto's tables and the astrolabe with him on the maiden trip to India. It would continue to be used by Portuguese ships thereafter to reach far destinations such as Brazil and India.\n\nVasco da Gama and his crew underwent a thorough briefing and preparation by Zacuto, in addition to learning to use the new instruments which he had developed for their trip before setting on the voyage to India in 1496. Prior to that, Zacuto had again improved on the existing astronomical tables, mostly those prepared under King Alphonso X of Castille. Already Columbus had used Zacuto's tables. The story is that on one of his voyages, when attacked by the natives, Columbus noted that Zacuto had predicted an eclipse for that day, and used this information to threaten the natives and convince them that he could extinguish the Sun and Moon and deprive them of all light. Zacuto's work thus saved the Admiral's life and that of his crew.\n\nAbraham Zacuto might have an uncredited appearance in Luís de Camões's 1572 epic poem, \"The Lusiad\", as the unnamed \"old man of Restelo beach\", a Cassandra-like character that surges forward just before Vasco da Gama's departure to chide the vanity of fame and warn of the travails that await him (Canto IV, v.94-111). This may be Camões' poetic interpretation of an alleged meeting (reported in Gaspar Correia) between Vasco da Gama and the older Abraham Zacuto at a monastery by Belém beach, just before his fleet's departure, in which Zacuto reportedly gave Gama some final navigational tips and warned him of dangers to avoid.\n\nIn 1504, while in Tunisia, Abraham Zacuto wrote a history of the Jewish people, \"Sefer yuḥasin\" (), since the Creation of the World until 1500, and several other astronomical/astrological treatises. The \"History\" was greatly respected and was reprinted in Cracow in 1581, at Amsterdam in 1717, and at Königsberg in 1857, while a complete, uncensored, edition was published by Filipowski in London at 1857. Annotations in Hebrew to chapter five of \"Sefer Hayuhasin\", were published by Yoel Lieberman in 2001 in a masters thesis called \"A Record of Medieval Sages In Sefer Yuchasin of Rabbi Abraham Zacut\". The book was translated into English and published in 2005 by the Zacuto foundation founded by Dr. Vladimir Rozenblit, a 20th generation direct descendant of Zacuto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "375807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375807", "title": "Adrian Mole", "text": "Adrian Mole\n\nAdrian Albert Mole is the fictional protagonist in a series of books by English author Sue Townsend. The character first appeared (as \"Nigel\") in a BBC Radio 4 play in 1982. The books are written in the form of a diary, with some additional content such as correspondence. The first two books appealed to many readers as a realistic and humorous treatment of the inner life of an adolescent boy. They also captured something of the zeitgeist of the UK during the Thatcher period.\n\nThe series has many themes. The first books concentrate on Adrian's desires and ambitions in life (to marry his teenage sweetheart, publish his poetry and novels, obtain financial security) and his complete failure to achieve them. The series satirises human pretensions, and especially, in the first couple of volumes, teenage pretensions.\n\nThe second theme is depiction of the social and political situation in Britain, with particular reference to left-wing politics in the 1980s in the first three books. For example, Mr and Mrs Mole's divorce reflects rising divorce rates in the 1980s, and living together unmarried was becoming a norm. Adrian's mother becomes a staunch feminist and briefly joins the Greenham Common campaigners. Pandora, Adrian's love interest, and her parents are part of an intellectualised and left-wing middle class that attempted to embrace the working class.\n\nHumour arises from the outworking of larger social forces within a very ordinary household in a very ordinary part of Middle England.\n\nThe last three books move in slightly new directions, showing Adrian as an adult in different environments. They have a stronger element of political satire, mainly examining New Labour, and in \"Weapons of Mass Destruction\", the Iraq War. The intervening book, \"\", mixes these themes, with events such as the Gulf War seen from Adrian's naive and frustrated point of view, as well as depictions of his experiences of unemployment and public spending cutbacks, both major political issues at the time. In dealing with political events, a constant plot device is that Adrian makes confident predictions and statements that are known to be wrong by the reader, ranging from belief in the Hitler Diaries to an Iraqi victory in the Gulf War and the existence of their weapons of mass destruction.\n\nAdrian Albert Mole is born 2 April 1967, and grows up with his parents in the city of Leicester; he moves to Ashby-de-la-Zouch in England's East Midlands. Adrian's family are largely unskilled working class/lower middle class. He is an only child until the age of 15, when his half-brother Brett and half-sister Rosie are born. Adrian is not gifted academically but does tolerably well at school, though he does sometimes suffer the ire of headmaster \"Pop-Eye\" Scruton. Though not especially popular he has a small circle of friends and even a girlfriend Pandora Braithwaite (whose parents Ivan and Tania are affluent Trotskyites). At one point he falls into bad company with Barry Kent and his gang, who had bullied him in earlier years, but generally he keeps out of trouble. Throughout all this Adrian sees himself as an \"intellectual\" and a thwarted \"Great Writer\".\n\nIronically Adrian actually \"is\" a good writer, as the quality of his diaries attests, but he feels he must adopt a \"high\" or avant-garde literary style to be taken seriously. His novel \"Lo! The Flat Hills of My Homeland\" is unsurprisingly never published: the few passages included in the diaries are painful to read (though Adrian himself regards them as \"magnificent\"), and the first few drafts were even written without vowels. Over several books he develops a script for a white van serial killer comedy programme which the BBC is reluctant to produce. Another of his works \"The Restless Tadpole: an Opus\" is described by one potential agent as \"effete crap\".\n\nAs a young man he moves to London and takes a job in a Soho restaurant catering to media types. London is going through a foodie renaissance and offal is all the rage. Adrian is persuaded to feature as a celebrity chef in a television cookery programme called \"Offally Good!\"; although he is told the programme is a comedy, he typically fails to realise he is being set up as the stooge, the comic . He is contracted to write a book to accompany the show, but suffering from writer's block he eventually relies on his mother to write it for him.\n\nHe befriends an old pensioner called Archie Tait whilst he is living back at home with his mother. When Archie dies, Adrian goes to live in his old house, since Archie had no real ties. He finds out that Glenn Bott is his son and cannot pay Sharon all the money, so he cares for Glenn full-time. Glenn's remedial teacher, Eleanor Flood, a convicted arsonist, burns Archie's old house down.\n\nAdrian ends up working in an antiquarian bookshop. Having lived in relative poverty for much of his life, and for some time in London in actual squalor, he overextends himself financially, lured by the banks' promises of easy credit, and buys a converted loft apartment, at Rat Wharf. He is terrorized by swans, buys a talking fridge, and enjoys his newfound freedom as his children are \"off his hands\". Glenn is now in the British Army while William is living with his mother and Mole's ex-wife, Jojo, in Nigeria.\n\nHe gets caught up in a relationship with Marigold Flowers, a strange woman with a passion for dollshouses. He is attracted to her at first, but he likes her less each day and she costs him a lot of money. He tries and fails to end the relationship. Adrian's debt accumulates to such an extent that he owes £200,000 at one point.\n\nEventually Adrian moves into his parents' converted pigsties, along with Marigold's sister Daisy, whom he marries. The couple settle down and have a daughter Gracie, but Adrian's problems are far from over. He suffers the double tragedy of losing his new wife to the local squire while discovering that he himself has cancer. His loyal friend and co-worker Bernard Hopkins comes to the rescue, moving in with him and promising to remain until his cancer is in remission. Fortunately Adrian's cancer treatment is successful and Bernard leaves to pursue romance with a local widow, giving Adrian a pig as a farewell present. The final book ends with Adrian finding out he will be a grandfather and Pandora arriving outside the house.\n\nThe Mole family is dysfunctional. Adrian's parents Pauline and George Mole are working-class characters with limited social mobility who drink and smoke heavily. Both are often unemployed; they have separated, divorced and remarried several times, often in the wake of extramarital affairs. In a reversal of a typical teenager-mother relationship, Pauline berates Adrian for keeping his room \"like a bloody shrine\". They move from Leicester to Ashby-de-la-Zouch with their dog (only ever referred to as \"the dog\", who is eventually replaced by \"the new dog\"). Adrian's paternal grandmother Edna May Mole is also prominent in the early diaries until her death in \"The Wilderness Years\".\n\nPauline first leaves George for their neighbour, Mr. Lucas, an insurance man. George fathers a second son, Brett, by a lover, Doreen Slater, whom Adrian privately refers to as \"Stick Insect\". Brett makes a reappearance in the later books as a successful yet unpleasant businessman who loses his fortune during the credit crunch. Doreen is killed off in \"Prostrate Years\". Pauline temporarily marries her younger lodger Martin Muffet, who eventually leaves her for Adrian's girlfriend Bianca Dartington, giving Adrian and his mother a shared heartbreak. Later, George and Pauline effect a partner swap with Ivan and Tania Braithwaite (parents of Pandora), only to reunite after Ivan's untimely death.\n\nAdrian's half-sister, Rosie Germaine Mole (after feminist Germaine Greer), grows up to be rebellious and street-smart, in contrast to Adrian. Despite opposing personalities, the siblings enjoy a close relationship, and Adrian often feels that she is the only family member who understands him. She also relies on him on occasion; when she becomes pregnant as a teenager, Adrian supports her decision to have an abortion.\n\nAlthough the identity of Rosie's father is originally uncertain, in \"The Prostrate Years\" Mr Lucas, now wealthy, gets back in touch with Rosie and demands a DNA test on \"The Jeremy Kyle Show\". Adrian tries to talk his mother and Rosie out of informing George or appearing on the show, but they do so; the test proves that Mr Lucas is Rosie's father. As Rosie's relationship with her parents breaks down, she moves in with Mr Lucas and starts calling him \"Dad\" and herself \"Rosie Lucas\". Pauline also raises the possibility of Adrian's real father being a poetry-writing maggot farmer she dated before she married George, but Adrian decides not investigate. He thanks his father after learning that he raised him single-handedly during the first year of his life when Pauline was suffering from postpartum depression.\n\nIt is mentioned that Adrian's middle name, Albert, is after his paternal grandfather. However, in \"The Growing Pains of Adrian Mole\", it is stated that his name was Arnold, and as Arthur in \"Weapons of Mass Destruction\". However, he is simply called Grandad Mole. Adrian's maternal grandparents, the Sugdens, have never had their names revealed, although Pauline has two brothers, Dennis and Pete. Dennis married a woman called Marcia, and they had a son called Maurice, and Pete married a woman called Yvonne, who had died.. Grandma Sugden had died twenty years previously, as of \"The Lost Diaries\". Adrian's aunt, Susan Mole, appears in most – if not all – of the books. Susan is a lesbian and prison warden at Holloway Prison. In earlier books, she is dating a woman called Gloria, but later is married to another woman called Amanda.\n\n\nProduction of sequels was interrupted by Townsend's declining health. At the time \"Adrian Mole – The Weapons of Mass Destruction\" was published in 2004, Townsend stated it would be the last Adrian Mole volume. However, in an interview on Leicester hospital station Radio Fox on 5 June 2008, Townsend said that she was in fact writing a new Mole book entitled \"The Prostrate Years\", which was released in 2009. In October 2009 the \"Leicester Mercury\" featured an interview with Townsend where she discussed the new Mole book and her plans for future works.\n\nIn 2011, Townsend published a short Adrian Mole piece that tied into the wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton. A very brief piece in which Adrian gave advice to writers followed in 2012. These are the last Adrian Mole works published in Townsend's lifetime, and the last original Mole stories to date.\n\nIn a 2013 interview, Townsend discussed her plans to wrap up the series in two further volumes, but also the fact that her continually declining health might make this plan impossible.\n\nTownsend died on 10 April 2014. Her British publisher said the writer had been working on a new Adrian Mole story at the time of her death. The book, which had the working title \"Pandora's Box\", was due for publication later in 2014. A spokesman for Michael Joseph said: \"We can confirm that Sue was in the middle of writing the book. Her editor had seen what she describes as 'a few wonderful pages'. It was supposed to be out this autumn and we are very sad that we won't be able to show it to the world.\"\n\n\nTwo overlapping compilations exist. The first two books are repackaged in one volume, and \"\" includes \"The True Confessions\" and \"The Wilderness Years\", as well as a bonus not available separately, \"Adrian Mole and the Small Amphibians\". \"Adrian Mole From Minor to Major\" (i.e. from being a child to the years of the John Major government) is a compilation of the first three books and \"Adrian Mole and the Small Amphibians\".\n\nThe table below details the title of each novel and the time period covered by Mole's entries:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47667041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47667041", "title": "Advances in Public Interest Accounting", "text": "Advances in Public Interest Accounting\n\nAdvances in Public Interest Accounting is a book series of scholarship in accounting, published regularly since 1986. The series is edited by Cheryl Lehman and published by Emerald Group Publishing.\n\nEach publication volume generally is associated with research on a particular theme. Themes in publication volumes have included \"Advances in Accountability: Regulation, Research, Gender and Justice\" (2001), \"Corporate Governance: Does Any Size Fit?\" (2005) and \"Ethics, Equity and Regulation\" (2010).\n\nThe publication is both tracked and ranked by SCImago Country & Journal Rankings\n"}
{"id": "1050785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1050785", "title": "Annamarie Castrilli", "text": "Annamarie Castrilli\n\nAnnamarie Castrilli (born 1949) is a former politician in Ontario, Canada. A lawyer, and university lecturer, she sat on several boards of directors, including being the chair of the University of Toronto's Governing Council. She was first elected to the Legislative Assembly of Ontario in the 1995 Ontario general election as a Liberal, and served as a Member of Provincial Parliament (MPP) through June 1999. In 1996, she ran for the leadership of the Ontario Liberal Party, but finished sixth. After losing a nomination battle in her newly constituted constituency, she crossed the floor to the governing Progressive Conservatives on the day the 1999 Ontario general election was called. She ran in that campaign as a Conservative candidate in Parkdale—High Park, but lost to one of her fellow Liberal leadership contenders, Gerard Kennedy. She has not run for public office since.\n\nCastrilli was educated at the University of Toronto, receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1969, a Master of Arts degree in 1970, and a Ph.D. in 1977. She subsequently attended Osgoode Hall Law School, receiving an LL.B. in 1984. She worked as an Associate Lawyer with the firm of Harries, Hauser, Loudon & Syron from 1985 to 1989 and was a Tax Partner with Bratty and Partners in 1990. From 1991 to 1995, she ran a private practice as a corporate lawyer.\n\nCastrilli also served on the Governing Council of the University of Toronto from 1989 to 1995 (including two years as Chair), was a trustee with the Sunnybrook Hospital from 1993 to 1995, and was a director of the Royal Ontario Museum, also from 1993 to 1995. She was a founding member of the \"Italian Canadian Women's Alliance\" in 1976, and of the \"Women's Intercultural Council\" in 1988. Before entering politics, she had written several articles on multiculturalism, women's issues and human rights.\n\nIn the provincial election of 1995, Castrilli was elected as a Liberal in the northwest Toronto riding of Downsview, defeating incumbent New Democrat Anthony Perruzza by 360 votes. The general election was won by the Progressive Conservatives, and Castrilli became the Opposition Critic for Colleges and Universities, also serving as Associate Critic to the Attorney-General. Fellow Liberals MPPs soon dubbed her \"La Contessa\" because of her patrician demeanour.\n\nWhen Lyn McLeod resigned as Liberal leader in 1996, Castrilli entered the race to succeed her. Her candidacy did not receive widespread support, and she placed sixth of out seven candidates on the first ballot. Castrilli initially withdrew from the contest but changed her mind a few minutes later, causing a delay in the voting process as the ballots needed to be reprinted. She again placed sixth and was forced out of the contest, giving her support to eventual winner Dalton McGuinty. (See Ontario Liberal Leadership Conventions.)\n\nCastrilli initially planned to run as a Liberal in the 1999 provincial election, but was defeated for the party's nomination in York Centre by fellow caucus member Monte Kwinter. The Progressive Conservative government had previously reduced the number of constituencies from 130 to 103, forcing several incumbent Members of Provincial Parliament (MPPs) to compete against one another for renomination.\n\nOn the last sitting day of the legislature, Castrilli crossed the floor to sit as a Progressive Conservative. She won the PC nomination in the Parkdale—High Park constituency, and faced high-profile Liberal MPP Gerard Kennedy in the general election. Kennedy and Castrilli were both candidates for the Liberal party leadership in 1996; she placed sixth while he finished second to McGuinty in the leadership contest. One of Castrilli's most prominent supporters was John Nunziata, an Independent member of the House of Commons of Canada who had left the Liberal Party of Canada in 1996.\n\nThe contest between Kennedy and Castrilli was expected to be close, but it was not when Kennedy won with 23,030 votes, while Castrilli received 12,699.\n\nShe subsequently created \"Partnership with Ontarians\" to promote the province for international business, and is now a member of SEADAC Strategic Consultants.\n\nIn the federal election of 2004, Castrilli supported Conservative Party candidate Michael Mostyn. Later in the year, she was co-chair of Jim Flaherty's unsuccessful bid to lead the provincial Tories.\n"}
{"id": "42978611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42978611", "title": "Bodil Lindqvist v Åklagarkammaren i Jönköping", "text": "Bodil Lindqvist v Åklagarkammaren i Jönköping\n\nBodil Lindqvist v Åklagarkammaren i Jönköping (2003) is a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Communities (European Court of Justice). It held that referring to various persons on an internet page and identifying them either by name or by other means constitutes processing of personal data by automatic means within the meaning of Community law.\n\nIt was the first time the Court ruled on the scope of Directive 95/46/EC \"(Data Protection Directive)\" and freedom of movement for such data on the internet. It was cited in \"Costeja\" (2014), a controversial ruling that held an internet search engine operator established in the European Union (EU) is responsible for the processing that it carries out of personal information that appears on web pages published by third parties, confirming a right of erasure widely regarded as a so-called \"right to be forgotten\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44543003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44543003", "title": "Book restoration", "text": "Book restoration\n\nBook restoration is the renewal and repair of books. Techniques include cleaning; mending and filling damaged pages; restitching and rebinding. The first substantial work on the subject was Alfred Bonnardot's \"Essai sur l'art de Restaurer les Estampes et les Livres\" which was first published in Paris in 1846. Further significant developments occurred as a result of specific events including the 1904 fire at the Turin National University Library and the 1966 flood of the Arno which damaged over a million items in the National Central Library in Florence.\n\nIn France, conservators specialized in graphic arts and books are trained at the Institut National du Patrimoine (The National Institute of Cultural Heritage). Their mission is to intervene when heritage resources are threatened or deteriorated for several reasons. The conservator prevents works of art from disappearing or loses its purpose whilst analyzing the complex stage of its material history and the cause of alteration.\n"}
{"id": "55629762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55629762", "title": "CFDICT", "text": "CFDICT\n\nThe CFDICT project was started by David Houstin in 2010 and is maintained by a team on Chine Informations, with the aim to provide a complete Chinese to French dictionary with pronunciation in pinyin for the Chinese characters.\n\nCFDICT is a text file; other programs (or simply Notepad or egrep or equivalent) are needed to search and display it. This project is considered a standard Chinese-French reference on the Internet and is used by several other Chinese-French projects. The Pleco Software uses CFDICT data for its Chinese-French Dictionary.\n\nFeatures:\n\nThe basic format of the CFDICT.xml file is:\nThe format of the CFDICT.u8 file is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49021154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49021154", "title": "Causeway Bay Books disappearances", "text": "Causeway Bay Books disappearances\n\nThe Causeway Bay Books disappearances are a series of international disappearances concerning five staff members of Causeway Bay Books, located in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong. Between October and December 2015, five staff of Causeway Bay Books went missing. At least two of them disappeared in mainland China, one in Thailand. One member was last seen in Hong Kong, and eventually revealed to be in Shenzhen, across the Chinese border, without the travel documents necessary to have crossed the border through legal channels.\n\nIt was widely believed that the booksellers were detained in mainland China, and in February 2016 Guangdong provincial authorities confirmed that all five had been taken into custody in relation to an old traffic case involving Gui Minhai. While response to the October disappearances had been muted, perhaps in recognition that unexplained disappearances and lengthy extrajudicial detentions are known to occur in mainland China, the unprecedented disappearance of a person in Hong Kong, and the bizarre events surrounding it, shocked the city and crystallised international concern over the possible abduction of Hong Kong citizens by Chinese public security bureau officials and their likely rendition, and the violation of several articles of the Basic Law. In his report to the British government and parliament in early January 2016, foreign secretary Philip Hammond said the incident was \"a serious breach of the Sino-British Joint Declaration on Hong Kong and undermines the principle of one country, two systems\".\n\nFollowing the international focus on the disappearances, there were virtual reappearances by two of the missing men, Lee Bo, in the form of letters and photographs, and Gui Minhai, in a confessional video broadcast on national television, in which they insisted that their return to mainland China was voluntary but which failed to account for their movement across national borders. These efforts were widely derided by commentators as a farce and a charade, as they failed to satisfy concerns over the breach of \"one country, two systems\" and its practical and constitutional implications.\n\nOn 16 June 2016, shortly after he returned to Hong Kong, Lam Wing-kee gave a long press conference in the presence of legislator Albert Ho in which he detailed the circumstances surrounding his eight-month detention, and describing how his confession and those of his associates had been scripted and stage-managed. Lam indicated the involvement of the Central Investigation Team, which is under direct control of the highest level of the Beijing leadership. His revelations stunned Hong Kong and made headlines worldwide, prompting a scurry of counter-accusations and denials from mainland authorities and supporters.\n\nCauseway Bay Books (銅鑼灣書店), located in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong, was founded in 1994 by Lam Wing-kee. It is one of about 110 independent Hong Kong bookshops that rent out space in upstairs locations to avoid high rents at street level. The bookstore sells a number of political books that are considered sensitive and banned in mainland China. Freedom of speech in Hong Kong is protected under Basic Law Article 27, and these independent publishers thrive as they cater predominantly to people interested in the machinations of mainland politics. The bookstore has become popular amongst mainland Chinese tourists for this reason. In 2014, the bookstore was sold to Mighty Current Media Company Limited (巨流傳媒有限公司), a publishing house. During the time of the disappearances, the company had three shareholders: Gui Minhai, Sophie Choi and Lui Bo. According to industry sources, Mighty Current is a prolific publisher with a number of publishing subsidiaries, and this group may be responsible for 30 to 60 percent of the output of salacious books about Chinese political figures that are widely available at newsstands and in book stores, including one at Hong Kong International Airport.\n\nAround the time of the disappearances, Gui Minhai was rumoured to have been working on a book regarding current CPC general secretary Xi Jinping's personal history, tentatively named \"Xi and His Six Women\" (習近平和他的六個女人). The project was suggested to be linked to the disappearances. The publishing house had also already gone to press with a book entitled \"2017: Upheaval in China\", but it was withdrawn by the author before publication.\n\nIn late 2013, Yiu Man-tin (姚文田), founder and chief editor of Morning Bell Press (晨鐘書局) and a Hong Kong resident, was arrested in Shenzhen after he had been tricked there. He was known to have been preparing to publish book by a Chinese writer residing in the US about Chinese paramount leader Xi Jinping, entitled \"Godfather of China, Xi Jinping\" (中國教父習近平). Yiu was arrested by police in Shenzhen on charges of falsely labelling and smuggling industrial chemicals worth $220,000 in 2010 and was sentenced to prison for 10 years allegedly for smuggling, even though the real reason for the trumped up charges, in the eyes of many, was China's increasing restrictions on political expression under Xi. Two Hong Kong magazine publishers, Wong Kin-man and Wo Chung-hau, were arrested and tried in November 2015 for running an illegal business in China after sending copies of a political magazine to people on the mainland.\n\nChinese PEN Center director Bei Ling alerted \"Apple Daily\" to Lee Bo's disappearance, and the journal reported on 1 January 2016 that Lee had become the fifth member of Causeway Bay Books to disappear. His wife was unwilling to speak to the press at the time, but filed a missing person's report with the Hong Kong police the following day.\n\nAccording to \"The Sunday Times\", the mainland authorities had issued instructions on 25 April 2015 to eradicate illegal publications and those containing sexual content. \"The Sunday Times\" published what was described to be an alleged internal Communist Party document entitled \"Guangdong Action Plan\", a summary of which had been circulating in journalistic and political circles the previous week, and the full document gives apparent authorisation for excursions by Guangdong enforcers targeting authors, publishers and booksellers. In it, 14 publishing houses and 21 publications in Hong Kong were named.\n\nLui Bo (呂波, age 45) is the manager and one of the three shareholders of Mighty Current. His last known location was the bookstore. On 14 October 2015, he logged in for the last time onto the bookstore computer. Unconfirmed sources state that he was taken away from his wife's home in Shenzhen.\n\nGui Minhai (桂民海, age 51) is a Swedish national and one of the three shareholders of Mighty Current. He was taken away from his home in Pattaya, Thailand by an unknown man on 17 October 2015. Gui had written some 200 books during his ten years as author/publisher. He kept his movements to himself and his communications routed, and his work projects would also be shrouded in secrecy. Gui has not set foot inside the PRC for a long period – he never attended to his father when he was ill, and did not return upon his death. It is known that his home in Thailand was later searched by four Chinese men, who attempted to seize Gui's computer. A manager from the estate where Gui lived, in an effort to contact Gui, dialled the number that last called her regarding Gui, to be told by a taxi driver that the four men, who had left the telephone in the taxi, wanted to go to a border town in Cambodia. He was last heard from on 6 November when he called his wife to tell her that he was safe but was unwilling to reveal his whereabouts. Gui's family contacted the Swedish embassy, and the Swedish police filed a report through Interpol, but \"the Guardian\", noting that the military junta was becoming increasingly accommodating to Chinese demands, observed that the Thais had done little to advance the case. The Thai authorities have no record of him leaving the country.\n\nLam Wing-kee (林榮基, age 60), the founder of Causeway Bay Books, has been missing since 24 October 2015. He habitually spent long hours at the bookshop and occasionally slept there. His wife filed a missing persons report with the police on 5 November and his family received a telephone call from him several hours later; he refused to reveal his whereabouts. When filing the police report, they were referred to the Immigration Department, who said it was against privacy policy to reveal a person's records of entry and exit of Hong Kong without the subject's permission. However, legislator James To said this was a reasonable request that was exempt from privacy policy. Police followed up on his case once, asking whether they had heard from him. His family allege that upon learning that he had contacted his family, the officer who called them informed that the case would be closed as resolved.\n\nCheung Jiping (張志平, age 32), a manager of Mighty Current, was taken away from his wife's home in Fenggang, Dongguan by at least a dozen men in plainclothes.\n\nLee Bo (aka Paul Lee, 李波, age 65), was a British citizen and the husband of Sophie Choi, who is in turn one of the three shareholders of Mighty Current. Lee regularly helped out in the bookstore. Lee Bo's wife has written a column for 20 years under the pen name of Syu Fei at \"Ta Kung Pao\" – owned by the Liaison Office; Lee worked at Joint Publishing until he started work at the bookstore. Since the disappearances of four of his colleagues, he had been doing anonymous interviews with BBC and various media. After the arrest of Yiu Man-tin and the disappearance of three of his colleagues, Lee went on record to say that their motive was purely economic, and that not setting foot in the mainland was the cost to bear for being in the publishing business. Lee was last seen on 30 December 2015, while delivering books in Chai Wan to a certain unknown client. Choi, who had been expecting Lee home for dinner at around 7.15 pm on 30 December, raised the alarm when he failed to return home. Lee had apparently received an order for about ten books from a new customer and had arranged to hand them over in person that night. He descended his building in a lift with at least eight other people at around 6 pm, and witnesses saw him being pushed by a group of men into a minivan, which sped away the moment he was securely on board. Choi, Lee Bo's wife, later received a telephone call from him from a Shenzhen number. Uncharacteristically speaking in Mandarin Chinese and apparently with someone whispering over his shoulder, Lee said that he had to go to the mainland on urgent business and that he would not be back home for some time. He assured her that he was well but assisting with investigations. His wife was told to be discreet. The Immigration Department has no record of Lee having left Hong Kong, and Hong Kong does not have any extradition agreement with the PRC. The fact that his home return permit was left at home led many to fear that he may have somehow been abducted by the mainland public security bureau and renditioned to Shenzhen. His disappearance is the only known disappearance that occurred in Hong Kong territory, and thus sparked even more concern on whether the integrity of \"one country, two systems\" is being maintained.\n\nAmongst local media outlets, only \"Apple Daily\" and \"Ming Pao\" ran coverage on their front pages initially, while other local newspapers carried only brief pieces about a missing person. Television viewers remarked that TVB did not run the story during its prime time news programmes for the first few days after news of the Lee Bo disappearance broke. Lee Bo's disappearance spurred renewed interest about Lam Wing-kee, and his family received a police visit the same day after chief executive CY Leung spoke publicly on the case.\n\nHong Kong's Chief Secretary Carrie Lam said that the Hong Kong government cares about the wellbeing of its people, and assured the public that police were working on the case. Chief Executive CY Leung stated in a press conference on 4 January 2016 that if mainland Chinese law officials were operating in Hong Kong, it would be \"unacceptable\" and a breach of the Basic Law. Article 22 states that no department of the central, provincial, or municipal governments within China may interfere in the affairs which the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region administers on its own. Leung furthermore hoped that \"anyone, especially Lee Bo himself, can provide relevant information\" about his disappearance. In January 2016, after it was revealed that all five men were in mainland China, Lam expressed confidence in the sincerity and goodwill of the PRC government, and said that Lee Bo's disappearance was an isolated case that needed a swift resolution, but it did not amount to a breakdown of one country two systems. The American Chamber of Commerce asserted that with the rule of law, Hong Kong was still a preferable springboard to invest from, compared with Shanghai or Beijing, but nevertheless expressed concern at the disappearances.\n\nLeading pro-establishment figures cast doubt on the mainland's supposed role in the disappearances: Ip Kwok-him said that it was possible to use mainland telephone lines in Hong Kong, so the phone call from a Shenzhen number did not necessarily mean Lee was in the mainland; he added that there was no evidence of abduction. After Lee's wife cancelled her police report, Yiu Si-wing disputed the need for LegCo to discuss his disappearance due to the cancellation; Michael Tien said that if Lee had voluntarily gone to the mainland, it could not be a question of mainland officials acting across the border; Wong Kwok-kin said that kidnappers demand ransoms and not cancellation of missing persons reports. Regina Ip said it was odd that Lee would be able to apparently telephone his wife freely if he was in custody, unlike if he was detained in Hong Kong. Ng Leung-sing, during a legislative council discussion, claimed to have received a tip from \"an old friend\" that all five booksellers had taken clandestine speedboats to Wai Lingding Island (), an island south of Hong Kong that is administratively part of mainland China with no border facilities, and had been arrested for seeking prostitutes. The allegations of prostitution, criticised by pro-democracy figures as character assassination, were carried by TVB on its prime time evening news as the leading item. Ng later apologised under pressure, saying that he had repeated a rumour without having checked the facts but never mentioned Lee's name. Ng said he was merely trying to state that it was indeed possible to leave Hong Kong without identity documents, and that it was inappropriate to speculate at present. Lee's wife criticised Ng for his insincere apology.\n\nMartin Lee said that \"according to all the evidence that has been reported, I believe that Mr. Lee had been taken against his will by certain law enforcement agents from across the border through illegal means\". He described the disappearances as the \"most worrying thing that has happened in Hong Kong since the handover in 1997\". Benny Tai and former chief secretary Anson Chan both said the case poses a genuine threat to the \"one country, two systems\" principle, which China ought to uphold. Former legislator Margaret Ng suggested that Hong Kong's status as a world city was coming into question, and said \"Hong Kong can be deemed to be no longer safe unless we have a clear resolution of the problem\". Albert Chan said \"this is the first time there has been such a clear violation of Hong Kong's law, a clear violation of 'one country, two systems' principle, that has taken place in such an open manner\", and Lee Cheuk-yan, called the disappearances a \"milestone for suppression\". Joseph Wong, former secretary for the Hong Kong civil service, also said that the incident will have drastic consequences as foreign confidence in the one country two systems policy may be irreparably damaged, which may in turn jeopardise Hong Kong's status as an international financial centre.\n\nOn 10 January, in excess of 6,000 people attended a protest march from the Hong Kong government headquarters in Admiralty to the China Liaison Office in Sai Wan demanding Beijing to respect the one country, two systems agreement to preserve Hong Kong's autonomy. \"Ta Kung Pao\" announced on the same day that Sophie Choi's regular \"Syu Fei\" column with the paper was temporarily suspended – a spokesman for the journal said that Choi had advised them just before the new year that she was unable to submit any copy in January. The Hong Kong police said that Lee Bo and his wife had met at a guesthouse in China on Saturday, 23 January. Choi acknowledged he was well and that he was \"assisting in an investigation in the capacity of a witness\". After the latest revelation, legislator Fernando Cheung criticised the CY Leung administration for limpness, remarking that \"up to now the whole handling of the Lee Bo fiasco is being conducted through unofficial means, bypassing the Hong Kong authorities, and Lee Bo seems to be releasing messages under the gun\".\n\nThe disappearances led to a very severe crisis of confidence within the publishing sector, with many booksellers being afraid to sell such books on mainland politics or featuring gossip on political figures. As of 7 January 2016, over 500 publishers, writers, booksellers and members of the public had signed an online petition pledging to \"not fear the white terror and uphold the principle of publication freedom\". Some booksellers began to pull anti-China books off shelves. Singapore-owned Page One removed some of the books published by Mighty Current – in particular many titles focusing on Xi Jinping – from their retail outlet at Hong Kong airport. The head of Open Publishing decided to abort the publication of \"Xi Jinping's Nightmare\", which had already come back from the printers. The author was unable to find a publisher in Hong Kong, and has gone to Taiwan. Richard Charkin, president of the International Publishers Association expressed \"deep concern\" for the missing men and called for their safe return home. He added that the disappearances \"immediately raise dire questions about the Chinese government's commitment to freedom to publish\".\n\nOn the other hand, US-based writer Xi Nuo () released his book \"Xi Jinping and His Lovers\" that was turned down by Gui Minhai the previous year after he had received a visit from a Chinese government agent. Xi Nuo says his decision to publish the book was to challenge the Chinese authorities. \"I want to tell the Chinese authorities and Xi Jinping, the president of China, that you are wrong. Completely wrong. You better release the five guys. Let them go back home\". American and European associations of publishers and booksellers – including PEN American Center, the Authors Guild and the Federation of European Publishers – jointly wrote to CY Leung, urging him to take action on the missing Causeway Bay booksellers and \"request a formal assurance from Beijing that it will respect Hong Kong's autonomy and abide by the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration\".\n\nChinese Foreign Minister stated that despite Lee Bo's dual Hong Kong and British citizenship, Lee is above all a Chinese citizen. This is viewed as a rebuke to Britain and a characterisation of the disappearance as an internal matter. Wang claimed that there was no evidence that the missing persons were taken by the Chinese government, and urged for an end to \"useless speculations.\" China's Foreign Ministry maintains that China opposes \"any foreign country interfering with China's domestic politics or interfering with Hong Kong affairs\".\n\n\"Global Times\", a tabloid subsidiary of \"People's Daily\", wrote three successive belligerent editorials on the case, an act viewed by Hong Kong media as an indirect recognition of China's role in the disappearances. The first editorial, on 4 January, opined that the bookshop's business model depended on \"stirring up troubles on the mainland ... [and]... that it interferes with mainland affairs in a disguised way, and damages the mainland's vital interests to maintain its harmony and stability.\" On 6 January 2016, they published another editorial stating that Causeway Bay Books being under investigation by Chinese officials for slander is \"reasonable\", and also noted that \"all powerful agencies in the world have ways to evade the law, so that those under investigation will cooperate\".\n\nMainland law enforcement agencies must notify their Hong Kong counterparts within 14 days under a reciprocal mechanism if any Hong Kong resident is detained across the border, but Hong Kong officials had received no word through these channels at the expiration of the deadline. On 8 January Chinese security officials acknowledged that Lee Bo was being held in China. This took the form of a nine-word message sent to the Hong Kong Police Force with no indication of his whereabouts or his activity status.\n\nSpeaking anonymously, a senior foreign diplomat in Hong Kong revealed that at least six countries had expressed their concern and asked for information regarding the disappearances as at 23 January 2016. Reuters revealed that fifteen ambassadors or consuls were concerned about the broad interpretation of Chinese nationality, and that the denial of consular access to a Swedish and a British passport holder was a violation of international treaties. Eight countries including the US, UK, Sweden, Canada, Japan, Australia and Germany had privately expressed concerns about the apparent breach of \"One country, two systems\".\n\nCommentators have noted a resurgent interest from citizens in renewing their BNO passports as they are feeling insecure in having a Hong Kong passport. Legal experts have become increasingly concerned at the reach of Chinese law enforcement. Jerome A. Cohen, expert in Chinese law at New York University, said China's increasing assertiveness in the world represents \"not only the extending reach of Chinese law, but the extending reach of Chinese lawlessness.\" Willy Lam, professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, warned: \"Not just the publishing and media circles, but the entire Hong Kong society, including people who do business in [mainland] China, and who might have commercial disputes with Chinese companies or different parts of the Chinese government, might fear for their safety because of such a very dangerous precedent\". \"Freedom from fear is a thing of the past for Hong Kong and this applies to everyone: businessmen or student,\" said a spokesman for the Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor.\n\nAlthough alternative options to doing business with China are few for the business sector, many companies large and small, including within the important financial sector, are uneasy about the changing political climate. The head of the one business association in Hong Kong said: \"The middle-class, the professionals, even the accountants: people are just freaked out about what is going on... The last bastion of Hong Kong's guarantees is the law. What we have left is our legal system, but people fear that this may be under attack too\". Steve Vickers, the principal of one local risk assessment firm said: \"The Hong Kong government appears to now have considerably diminished autonomy and the liaison office seems to be strengthening its position, [the disappearances have] certainly sent a chill through the business and social arenas in Hong Kong\".\n\nChinese state media published an interview on 17 January where Gui Minhai confessed to causing the death of a student whilst driving under the influence of alcohol in 2005 and for which he supposedly received a two-year suspended sentence. He allegedly absconded before the damages could be settled. According to interviews with China Central Television and Xinhua News Agency, Gui said that he had been consumed with guilt and had returned to China in October to face the consequences of his misdeed.\n\nIn the video footage Gui said: \"Returning to the Chinese mainland and surrendering was my personal choice and had nothing to do with anyone else. I should shoulder my responsibility and I don't want any individual or institutions to interfere, or viciously hype up my return\". Gui appealed for the public not to hype his disappearance.\n\nThe confession has been received with incredulity, and many of the facts surrounding his mysterious disappearance from Thailand, including the release of the video three months after him vanishing, have been called into question. The president of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong, Jasper Tsang, said: \"the China Central Television (CCTV) report [and broadcast of Gui Minghai's confession] did not seem to be able to calm the public. As the case drags on, there will be more speculation\". Human Rights Watch was quoted in the \"Wall Street Journal\" saying: \"Given that Gui has been held nearly three months incommunicado, in a secret location, and without a lawyer, his confession on state-controlled TV lacks credibility.\" \"The Washington Post\" said: \"The narrative seems messy and incoherent, blending possible fact with what seems like outright fiction. It feels illogical, absurd even. But that may be the point. Televised confessions don't tend to trade in logic, or truth. They trade in fear.\" Following China Central Television's release of videotaped confessions from Gui Minhai – and of Swedish NGO staffer Peter Dahlin, Reporters Without Borders condemned China's \"dissemination of forced 'confessions' that have no informational value\". The organisation urged the EU to sanction CCTV and Xinhua for \"knowingly peddling lies and statements presumably obtained under duress\". Hong Kong's chief executive said that he was unable to act as \"the Gui Minhai case has not been reported to the Hong Kong police or the government\".\n\nThe Swedish foreign ministry said an envoy had visited Gui in February, but Swedish diplomats had not been given access to him since.\n\nOn October 2017, he was formally released and ended up living in the eastern city of Ningbo, under heavy police presence and surveillance. In January 2018, Gui was travelling to Beijing for a medical exam at the Swedish embassy, accompanying him was two Swedish diplomats from the Swedish Consulate in Shanghai. Before reaching Beijing, 10 men in plain clothes kidnapped him away yet again in front of the diplomats. Chinese officials said that he was seized for allegedly sharing secret information with Swedish diplomats and of meeting them illegally. This incident caused Sweden to summon its Chinese ambassador to explain. \n\nAfter his wife reported his disappearance to the Hong Kong police, a letter purportedly handwritten by Lee Bo was faxed to Taiwan's Central News Agency on 4 January 2016, explaining that he had \"returned to the mainland using my own methods\" to work with \"concerned parties\". Saying that she believed the letter was written voluntarily, Lee Bo's wife withdrew her request for police help. However, the case remains open as Hong Kong police confirmed that a missing person report can only be cancelled by the subject in person.\n\nOn 10 January, \"Headline Daily\" claimed to have obtained an exclusive video in which Lee Bo claimed that he was safe and that his disappearance was merely a personal trip. It also published a letter, purporting to say that he was \"perplexed and puzzled\" about the reaction over the disappearances. He also condemned a protest that was to be held on the same day.\n\nAnother letter allegedly written by Lee Bo to his wife was sent to \"Sing Tao Daily\" on 17 January, the day Gui Minhai's confession was aired, in which Lee denounced his colleague's reprehensible lack of morals in connection with his car accident, and blamed Gui for the fate that had befallen him. In it, Lee also said that he had become good friends with his captors.\n\nOn 29 February, Lee Bo met with Hong Kong police and then gave a televised interview on the Hong Kong-based Phoenix Television in an undisclosed location in mainland China, in what was his first public appearance since he went missing. He held to the story that was in the letters published by \"Sing Tao\", saying he \"resorted to illegal immigration\" to get to the mainland \"to cooperate in a judicial investigation\" as he did not want to draw attention to his visit. He denied that he was kidnapped, but did not give details as to how he actually entered Mainland China without his travel documents. Adding that his British citizenship had been sensationalised, Lee Bo says that he will abandon his right of abode in the United Kingdom.\n\nOn 24 March Lee Bo returned to Hong Kong and asked the authorities to drop the case like his three colleagues did before. He said he would never again sell banned books, and was transported back into the mainland in a vehicle with cross-border licence plates the next day.\n\nOn 4 February 2016, provincial authorities in Guangdong confirmed that Lui Bo, Cheung Jiping, and Lam Wing-kee had been taken into custody in relation to a case involving Gui Minhai. The Guangdong authorities accused them of being \"involved in illegal activities on the mainland\" saying that \"criminal compulsory measures were imposed on them\". On 28 February, the three men appeared on Phoenix Television along with Gui Minhai in which they confessed to conspiring with Gui to send banned books to mainland customers and expressed remorse for their \"illegal book trading\"; Lam, further claiming Gui's books were fabrication, having been compiled from information obtained from the internet and magazines, acknowledged that the books \"generated lots of rumours in society and brought a bad influence\". Phoenix TV, citing police sources, said the three men showed \"good attitude\" by confessing and might be allowed to return to Hong Kong within the week while they await trial. According to the Hong Kong government, Lui Bo had returned to Hong Kong and met with Hong Kong police on the morning of 4 March. He requested that his missing person case be closed and expressed that he does not require assistance from the Hong Kong government and police. Cheung Jiping also came back to Hong Kong two days later, and also asked the Hong Kong police to drop his missing person case. It appears that both men returned to mainland China hours after meeting with the Hong Kong authorities.\n\nLam Wing-kee was the last bookseller with Hong Kong citizenship to be allowed to return to Hong Kong from the mainland, eight months after he disappeared. On 13 June, Lam cancelled his missing person's report with the police, repudiating police assistance. Three days later, on the day he was due to return to the mainland, he held a press briefing in the presence of legislator Albert Ho during which he claimed that he was abducted by the mainland officials at the Hong Kong-China border control in Shenzhen on 24 October 2015. He revealed that he had been transported handcuffed and blindfolded to Ningbo. Lam was not told what offence he had committed until after he was taken to Ningbo, where he was held in solitary confinement and under 24-hour guard by six teams of gaolers from the \"Central Investigation Team\" () – a Cultural Revolution-era unit whose powers and authority exceed those of the public security bureaus (PSB), reporting to central leadership. Lam felt he had no choice and signed away his rights of access to a lawyer and to inform family members of his detention. During his detention, he was subject to frequent interrogations each lasting around 40 minutes during which he was repeatedly accused of illegally sending banned books to mainland China.\n\nAfter March 2016, Lam was transferred to Shaoguan, where he worked in a library, but was prevented from leaving the mainland. His release was conditional upon retrieving a hard drive from the bookstore containing lists of readers who had bought books from his business and without divulging any details of his detention. He also stated that his confession on mainland TV in February was scripted, and that Lee Bo, who told him he was \"taken away from Hong Kong\", had also been forced to make a televised confession.\n\nLee Bo rejected Lam's assertions the next day, denying that he had told Lam how he ended up in the mainland or that he had handed over the bookstore's list of customers to mainland police. He also claimed that he was assisting Ningbo's PSB during his time there, and had never heard of the Central Investigation Team. \"Sing Tao Daily\" published a retort by a case officer in Ningbo, saying that Lam and his girlfriend had signed confessions to having been engaged in \"illegal business operations\" and agreements not to hire lawyers nor see their families. The officer said Lam was on bail, and was allowed to return to Hong Kong to attend to personal matters.\n\nThe Chinese foreign ministry said: \"Lam Wing-kee is a Chinese citizen, and he has violated China's laws on the mainland... Relevant authorities in China are authorised to handle the case in accordance with the law.\"\n"}
{"id": "9224636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9224636", "title": "Certified reference materials", "text": "Certified reference materials\n\nCertified Reference Materials (CRMs) are ‘controls’ or standards used to check the quality and metrological traceability of products, to validate analytical measurement methods, or for the calibration of instruments. A certified reference material is a particular form of measurement standard.\n\nReference materials are particularly important for analytical chemistry and clinical analysis. Since most analytical instrumentation is comparative, it requires a sample of known composition (reference material) for accurate calibration. These reference materials are produced under stringent manufacturing procedures and differ from laboratory reagents in their certification and the traceability of the data provided.\n\nQuality management systems involving laboratory accreditation under national and international accreditation/certification standards such as ISO/IEC 17025 require metrological traceability to Certified Reference Materials (where possible) when using reference materials for calibration.\n\nWhilst Certified Reference Materials are preferred where available, their availability is limited. Reference Materials that do not meet all the criteria for certified reference materials are more widely available: the principal difference is the additional evidence of metrological traceability and statement of measurement uncertainty provided on the certificate for certified reference materials.\n\nISO REMCO, the ISO committee responsible for guidance on reference materials within ISO, defines the following classes of reference material:\n\nOther bodies may define classes of reference material differently. WHO guidelines for biological reference materials provide the terms: \n\nFor chemical substances some pharmacopoeias use the WHO terms\n\nThe United States National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) uses the trade marked term Standard Reference Material (SRM) to denote a certified reference material that satisfies additional NIST-specific criteria. In addition, commercial producers adhering to criteria and protocols defined by NIST may use the trademark \"NIST traceable reference material\" to designate certified reference materials with a well-defined traceability linkage to existing NIST standards for chemical measurements. \n\nILAC describes the following five types of reference material:\n\nThe preparation of certified reference materials is described in general in ISO Guide 17034 and in more detail in ISO Guide 35. Preparation of biological reference standards is described in WHO Guidance. General steps required in production of a certified reference material typically include:\n\nIn addition it may be important to assess the commutability of a reference material; this is especially important for biological materials.\n\nDetailed sample preparation depends on the type of material. Pure standards are most likely to be prepared by chemical synthesis and purification and characterized by determination of remaining impurities. This is often done by commercial producers. Natural matrix CRMs (often shortened to 'matrix CRMs') contain an analyte or analytes in a natural sample (for, example, lead in fish tissue). These are typically produced by homogenization of a naturally occurring material followed by measurement of each analyte. Due to the difficulty in production and value assignment, these are usually produced by national or transnational metrology institutes like NIST (USA), BAM (Germany), KRISS (Korea) and IRMM (Joint Research Centre European Commission).\n\nFor natural materials, homogenization is often critical; natural materials are rarely homogeneous on the scale of grams so production of a solid natural matrix reference material typically involves processing to a fine powder or paste. Homogenization can have adverse effects, for example on proteins, so producers must take care not to over-process materials. Stability of a certified reference material is also important, so a range of strategies may be used to prepare a reference material that is more stable than the natural material it is prepared from. For example, stabilizing agents such as antioxidants or antimicrobial agents may be added to prevent degradation, liquids containing certified concentrations of trace metals may have pH adjusted to keep metals in solution, and clinical reference materials may be freeze-dried for long term storage if they can be reconstituted successfully.\nHomogeneity testing for a candidate reference material typically involves replicated measurements on multiple units or subsamples of the material.\n\nHomogeneity tests for CRMs follow planned experimental designs. Because the experiment is intended to test for (or estimate the size of) variation in value between different CRM units, the designs are chosen to allow separation of variation in results due to random measurement error and variation due to differences between units of the CRM. Among the simplest designs recommended for this purpose is a simple balanced nested design (see schematic). Typically 10-30 CRM units are taken from the batch at random; stratified random sampling is recommended so that the selected units are spread across the batch. An equal number of subsamples (usually two or three) is then taken from each CRM unit and measured. Subsamples are measured in random order. Other designs, such as randomized block designs, have also been used for CRM certification.\n\nData processing for homogeneity tests usually involves a statistical significance test for evidence of differences between units of the candidate CRM. For the simple balanced design above, this typically uses an F test following ANOVA. A check for trends with production order is also recommended.\nThis approach is not taken in ISO Guide 35:2017; rather, emphasis is placed on deciding whether the between-unit standard deviation is sufficiently small for the intended end use. If statistical tests are used, however, the homogeneity experiment should be capable of detecting important heterogeneity, ISO Guide 35:2017 in turn requiring a sufficient combination of precision of the measurement procedure, number of RM units and number of replicates per unit. Statistical power calculations can assist in ensuring a sufficiently effective test .\n\nIn extreme cases, such as microanalysis, materials must be checked for homogeneity on sub-micron scales; this may involve much larger numbers of observations and adjustments to statistical analysis.\n\nStability is among the essential properties of a CRM (see definitions above), and stability assessment is accordingly required for certified reference materials. Stability under long term storage and also under conditions of transport are both expected to be assessed. \"Assessment\" is not synonymous with \"testing\"; some materials - for example, many minerals and metal alloys - may be so stable that experimental tests are not considered necessary. Other reference materials will usually undergo experimental tests of stability at some point prior to the material being distributed for sale. \nWhere reference materials are certified for more than one property, stability is expected to be demonstrated for every certified property.\n\nThere are two important strategies for CRM stability testing; simple real-time studies and accelerated testing. Real-time studies simply keep units of the material at their planned storage temperature for a suitable period of time and observe the material at intervals. Accelerated studies use a range of more stringent conditions, most commonly increased temperature, to test whether the material is likely to be stable over longer time scales.\n\nReal-time stability studies simply hold a set of RM units at a proposed storage temperature and test a proportion of them at regular intervals. The results are usually assessed by inspection and by linear regression to determine whether there is a significant change in measured value over time.\n\nAccelerated studies have been in use since at least the mid-1950s, at least for biological reference materials. Typically, CRMs are monitored at a range of temperatures and the results are used to predict the rate of change at a proposed, usuallu low, storage temperature. Often, the prediction uses a well known degradation model such as an Arrhenius model. The advantage over real-time studies is that results are available sooner and predictions of stability over a much longer period than the stability study can be defended. For some applications, accelerated studies have been described as the only practical approach: \nThe principal disadvantage of accelerated studies is that reference materials, like any other material, can degrade for unexpected reasons over time, or can degrade following different kinetic models; predictions can then become unreliable.\n\nIn most stability studies, real-time or accelerated, a few units of the reference material are tested at intervals. If the measurement system used for testing the materials is not perfectly stable, this can generate imprecise data or can be mistaken for instability of the material. To overcome these difficulties, it is often possible to move RM units, at intervals, to some reference temperature where they remain stable, and then test all the accumulated units - which have undergone different exposure times - at the same time. This is referred to as an isochronous study. This strategy has the advantage of improving the precision of data used in assessing stability at the cost of delaying results until the end of the stability study period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21141029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21141029", "title": "Charles L. Flint", "text": "Charles L. Flint\n\nCharles Louis Flint (May 8, 1824 – February 26, 1889) was a lawyer, cofounder and first secretary of the Massachusetts Board of Agriculture, a lecturer in cattle and dairy farming, the first secretary of the Massachusetts Agricultural College Board of Trustees (now known as the University of Massachusetts Amherst) and the college's fourth president.\n\nFlint was born in Middleton, Massachusetts, on May 8, 1824. He graduated from Harvard University in 1849 and entered the Law School in 1850. In 1853, he became secretary of the newly formed Massachusetts Board of Agriculture, remaining in that position for 27 years. He was a member of the Boston School Committee and was involved in founding of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nFlint was one of the founders of the Massachusetts Agricultural College, where he lectured on dairy farming for four years. He served as elected secretary of the Board of Trustees for 22 years. On the resignation of President Clark during a budgetary crisis in 1879, Flint was elected president and served without a salary. After reorganizing the debt-ridden college with some success, he placed his resignation in the spring of 1880, and eventually left his post as secretary of the college board in 1885. In the later years of his life, Flint worked as president of the New England Mortgage Security Company, and remained an active member of the Massachusetts Horticultural Society and the Boston Society of Natural History. After a period of declining health he died during a trip to the South, on February 26, 1889 at a hotel in Hillman, Georgia.\n\nCharles Flint, born in Middleton, Massachusetts on May 8, 1824, was the second son of farmers Jeremiah and Mary Flint (née Howard). Thomas Flint, the first of the Flint family to come America, departed from Wales, settling on his homestead in present-day Peabody in 1640. Charles Flint and his siblings would be the seventh generation to farm on the family's heirloom estate; as a child, much of his time was divided between doing chores on the farm and attending school in the winter, both of which unquestionably influenced his careers in agriculture and education later in life. At the age of 12 everything changed when his mother died, and after the two years that followed he was sent to live with his uncle, owner a large farm in Norway, Maine There he would continue his studies in the local school, dedicating much of his remaining time to working on his uncle's farm. Flint would credit this entire turn of events as what ultimately gave him his drive as well as his ability to write concisely and fervently about agricultural, but his passion for writing had only begun to manifest itself. It was around this time that a teacher of his, having not accomplished the same, convinced him that to get liberal education in order benefit him in his future interests; ever determined to better himself, Flint left Maine at the age of 17, enrolling in the Phillips Academy of Andover, Massachusetts. Unfortunately Flint would later attribute these trying times for his poor health in later years, having to constantly support himself while gaining his education. He would graduate from Philips in 1845, entering Harvard in the fall of that same year; ever having trust in the future, Flint attended both institutions virtually unaided financially. To pay for schooling he would constantly contribute essays, stories and prose to whichever publishers would accept them. One day, while waiting in the Salem railroad depot, Flint noticed an ad for the Essex Agricultural Society offering a $20 prize for the best essay on Indian corn, after a moment's consideration, Flint decided to give it a chance. Upon returning to Cambridge he began to research the subject, becoming increasingly interested in its history until, by the time he had finished, it was a thorough history of the crop going back to its introduction as a staple to human civilization. Flint's essay would not only win the prize, but years later this paper would be responsible for his career as the Secretary of the Board of Agriculture. In addition to this Flint entered several literary contests, winning $40 for first place in Harvard's prestigious Bowdoin prize for an essay on \"The Different Representations of the Character of Socrates, by Plato, Xenophon, and Socrates\". He would also enter twice in the college's Boylston prize, winning first place in 1848 and second place in his senior year. After four years of rigorous schooling and working to pay for this education, Flint graduated from Harvard debt-free, with honors, in the class of 1849.\n\nUpon graduation Flint was offered a position as principal of a grammar school, and would teach there for two years. Though brief, this fleeting experience would prompt much of his later interests in the cause of furthering higher education. Towards the end of 1850 he enrolled in the Dane Law School at Cambridge to prepare for a career in court law over the next two years. During this time he entered a Harvard post-graduate essay prize, winning $50 for the best paper discussing the \"Representative System at Different Times and in Different Countries.\" Meanwhile, he was commended with a silver medal from the New York State Agricultural Society, whose members and chairman had found his 1846 essay on Indian corn \"very successful in throwing much and additional interest\" over the crop's history. For part of the time that he was attending law school, Flint worked under the supervision then-Commodore Charles Henry Davis for the American Nautical Almanac in Boston. Upon graduation in 1852, Flint was invited to practice at law firm in New York City. For the first several months he studied the New York code of law and was admitted to the New York bar in October, 1852; of which he would remain a member for much of his life.\n\nThe organization of the Massachusetts Board of Agriculture had begun following the Governor's signing of its Act of Legislation on April 21, 1852, around the same time that Flint was finishing his studies in law. Led by the Hon. Marshall P. Wilder, a merchant and advocate of agricultural education for more than a decade prior, the goal was to create a permanent government body that would accurately gather statistics on the crop returns of the county agricultural societies as well as provide a forum for the advancement of the state's agriculture. This Board was to be a representative body reporting to the state's senate and house, connected with to executive government with the Governor, Lieutenant Governor and Secretary of the Commonwealth serving as members \"ex officiis\". The governor and this executive council would then appoint 3 members considered of scientific background, with the remaining membership being elected delegates from each county agricultural society, serving in terms of 3 years each.\n\nThe first order of business for the Board would be to find a secretary of competent administrative ability but familiar with the sciences as well; Wilder saw such a figure is as imperative for the organization's survival. Initially the members petitioned Dr. Edward Hitchcock, the president of Amherst College, to fill the position, to which he consistently declined. By this time Charles Flint had gained some distinction in the field of agricultural studies, having been a regular contributor to the Boston monthly \"Journal of Agriculture\", many of his articles had been reprinted in other periodicals in the United States and Europe. After reading Flint's essay on Indian corn, which had received two prizes by this time, Wilder and the other members of the Board became convinced that he was just the person they needed to fill the position. He was immediate writ a letter by a member of the Board, asking what he believed the duties of such a title would involve, to which Flint, ignorant to the fact that he was their prime candidate, responded to in great length. The Board was exceedingly impressed by this and promptly invited him to take the position, to which Flint emphatically declined. He felt that it would be a complete change from everything he had spent his life planning for, but after persistent solicitation by former Governor Everett, Wilder and others, along with the consultation of several close friends, Flint ultimately renounced his New York practice and accepted the position. Flint began his duties on February 14, 1853, spending the first several months conducting research at the Sheffield Scientific School of New Haven, Connecticut. He would hold this position for 27 years.\n\nUp until the time of the Board's founding (and those in other states) agricultural science had been in a state of relative neglect in this country, with the small amount of literature printed mainly being reprints from European journals, and the journals of other sciences, industry and the arts dwarfing the agricultural literature that did exist. Over the next two decades Flint would help to rectify this through the publishing of numerous annual reports and outside literature. Some examples of this include the first of his reports which contained an extensive history of agriculture in the Commonwealth, the fourth of which contained a treatise on \"Grasses and Foraging Plants\", a revised edition of Harris's Injurious Insects, and a 450 book on \"Milch Cows and Dairy Farming\", all of which would go on to be printed for several more editions. His work was well received: Paul A. Chadbourne, a board member and future president of the Massachusetts Agricultural College himself, once stated Flint's treatise on grasses \"embodies the most practical and scientific information on the history, culture and nutritive value of the grasses and the grains. His style of writing is plain, simple, forcible and judiciously adapted to the ends he has in view. The large number of illustrations of the different species of grasses are drawn with great care and accuracy, and greatly facilitate the study and identification of unknown specimens.\"\n\nAfter 25 years of service, Flint submitted his resignation to the Board. Originally he had been told that, ideally, he would hold the position for some twenty years, and having contemplated leaving for some years prior, Flint had decided that the time was overdue. After consideration, the committee declined his resignation, unanimously adopting the following resolution:\n\n\"Wheras\", Hon. Charles L. Flint has presented to the Board a statement concerning his connection with the same during the past twenty-five years, and has offered his resignation as secretary:<br>\n\"Resolved\", That the Board desires to express its high appreciation of the valuable services of Secretary Flint, and hereby earnestly requests him to withdraw his resignation, and continue the good work on behalf of the agricultural interests of the Commonwealth, in which he has achieved so enviable a reputation.\n\nMarshall Wilder also added to the resolution the following amendment:\n\n\"Resolved\", That the thanks and gratitiude of the Massachusetts Board of Agriculture are eminently due to the Hon. Charles L. Flint, for the ability and fidelity with which he has discharged the duties of secretary for the last twenty-five years, in a manner alike honorable to the Commonwealth, and beneficial to its people.<br>\n\"Resolved\", That we tender to Mr. Flint our personal acknowledgments for the courtesy and kindness which have ever characterized his intercourse with the members of the Board, with the sincere desire that the remainder of his days may be as happy and prosperous as the past have been honorable and useful.\nFollowing the adoption of these commendations, Flint withdrew his resignation, serving two more years on the Board before resigning in 1880.\n\nIn summer of 1862, Flint took an extended break in Europe during which he would pass through multiple countries and communicate with the farmers from each one. While passing through Germany, many of these farmers conversed with him about a grand-scale International Exhibition in Hamburg being planned July of the following year. It was to his surprise when, in the spring of 1863, the Board of Agriculture (along with every other state and Federal agricultural body) was given an invitation to attend this convention. The Board decided to name a commissioner to travel with the other state officials who would be in attendance, to which Flint received the appointment \"unsought and unexpected[ly]\". His detailed account of the exposition can be found in the Board's Eleventh Annual Report. Its wealth of information on breeds of cattle and other livestock, agricultural practices and the organization European agricultural schools would be republished in excerpts throughout American agricultural periodicals for many years to follow.\n\nFlint's reports, though limited to 12,000 copies each, managed to circulate outside of the United States to many parts of the world. In the early 1880s an International Exposition was held at Santiago, at which the government of Chile awarded and sent him a bronze medal and diploma \"in recognition of the high quality and value of his reports.\"\n\nExactly four years after beginning his secretarial work, Flint married Ellen Elizabeth Leland of Grafton, Massachusetts on February 14, 1857. Leland was a direct descendent of the first secretary of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, Edward Rawson for whom the couple would name one of their children. Years later, his two sons would attend the Massachusetts Agricultural College.\nMrs. Flint died on September 25, 1875, the cause of her death not listed in her husband's biography.\n\nIn 1863, Flint was elected Secretary of the Board of Trustees of the Massachusetts Agricultural College, the land-grant college that had been founded that same year under the recently passed Morrill Act; he would hold this position for the next 22 years. Flint would also give a series of courses on dairy farming from 1868 to 1872, the subject for which a campus laboratory bearing his name would later be built for.\n\nSince the time of its founding the college had gone through 3 presidents: Henry F. French, who resigned after 2 years of service, Paul A. Chadbourne, a member of the Board of Agriculture who had to leave the post due to ill health, and William S. Clark, now considered the college founder as the first president to admit students. For a time the college was considered a success while under Clark's leadership, however by the end of the 1870s enrollment had gone into steady decline, with no admissions from the farming region of Berkshire County in 1870 and less than 20 students admitted in the entering class of 1875. This decline in students and revenue, along with the college's needs for a library and laboratories, was causing the institution to lose thousands with each passing year. Clark was accused of incompetence, to which he would retort with consistent blame to the state for not providing the college with facilities, and the farming community for its indifference to the matter. As the situation worsened, agricultural societies began to discontinue their scholarships, there was no new support to be found from the state and between 1874 and 1877 the college's credit was upheld only by the personal backing of one of its trustees, William Knowlton. During Clark's time at Sapporo, Flint advocated for the state to give the college some two hundred scholarships from revenue that had been made from dog license fees. In the preceding year, the college had cut its veterinary science program in the face of mounting debt, leading the newspapers to call the move a \"weakening of instruction\". Unfortunately Flint and the trustees' pleas for scholarship funding fell on deaf ears, as the legislature of that year only allotted a small sum for paying for student labor on the college farm. In the next couple years journalists would continue to condemn the institution, with the Boston Globe insisting the school be abolished, and the Springfield Republican stating the college would serve better as a trade school; other cries from the Governor's office suggested that the college be turned over to Amherst College as an agricultural department. The farming community hadn't embraced the college as a whole, the institution faced still-mounting debt and many at Beacon Hill had begun to declare the college a failure; Clark resigned on May 1, 1879, weary of \"time serving politicians and unprincipled newspapers seeking only to float on the tide of public opinion.\"\n\nIn order to survive, the college would need to undergo a period of reorganization, something which had never been done up to that time in its nearly 20-year existence. At a meeting of the trustees later in May 1879, the situation was seen as particularly grave and it was decided that it wouldn't be likely nor beneficial to call in an outsider, thus Charles L. Flint was unanimously elected to serve as the president of the college. Reluctantly, Flint accepted and would hold the title without pay, as well as his other secretarial duties until his resignation on March 24 of the following year. In the Twenty-Seventh Annual Report of the college, Professor of Agriculture and later President of the college William Penn Brooks describes Flint's extensive relationship with the college, in what was otherwise known as \"the most stormy year of its existence\":\n\n\"As secretary of the Board of Agriculture, trustee and president of the Agricultural College, and author of various standard works on agricultural topics, the name of Charles Louis Flint will long be remembered and revered...When, in 1879, William S. Clark resigned the presidency of the college, Mr. Flint reluctantly consented to assume its responsibilities, and for a year, during perhaps the most stormy period of its existence, guided it in safety through the troubled waters. He believed in the college most thoroughly, and emphasized his convictions by both precept and example, sending to it his two sons for education. Through all the vicissitudes of its earlier years he was its firm friend, and to him it is deeply indebted for advice and services. He gave it his best efforts, and he gave them cheerfully. A lecturer at the college, without compensation, he presented the individual members of its first classes with copies of each of his works on \"Milch Cows\" and \"Forage Plants ;\" a president, without pay, he gave his services without a murmur, asking for no reward save that arising from the consciousness of having performed his duty; and in almost the last years of his life he gave a substantial token of his interest, subscribing a thousand dollars to the permanent library fund of the college.\"\nBy the time Flint had resigned from his duties as president, the accumulated debt had been paid off by the state, \"as a man puts money into a contribution box\" states the 1881 Index, and the college had reduced its annual expenses by $10,000. In the course of that year \"Professor of Mental, Moral and Social Sciences,\" Henry W. Parker offered his resignation, with the position abolished following his departure. Among other cuts the salaries of two other (unnamed) professors were reduced as were those of the treasurer and some janitorial services were withheld as well. Flint seemed satisfied with the reorganization, stating \"The College is now, for the first time in several years, practically free from debt...It is impossible to see how the expenses can be reduced to a much lower figure, without seriously crippling the usefulness of the College, and curtailing its efficiency.\" His work was done, and the institution that he had worked so hard to help establish was once again on sound footing. In the year that followed, Flint would also resign from his duties on the Board of Agriculture, but would remain on the college's Board of Trustees until 1885. Following the three short-lived tenures of Stockbridge, Chadbourne and Greenough, over the course of which the college's reputation improved, Flint left, presumably due to poor health and likely in trust of Henry Goodell's ability to run the college for years to come.\n\nFunding from the Morrill Acts not only provided income for the Massachusetts Agricultural College but endowed the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as well. Flint was also instrumental in the creation of this institution, and spent a number of years serving on its founding committees, including the original Committee of Twenty, Committee of Publication, Committee of Associated Institutions, and the Back Bay Lands Committee. \nFlint is described as an \"ardent worker\" in the founding of the institute, and would also serve on a committee of three alongside founding president William Rogers and secretary Thomas Webb. This group, though of few members, ultimately determined how the institute would garner aid from the recently passed Morrill Act of 1860, not an easy task as Cornell was the only other private institution that fit the necessary criteria. Undoubtedly Flint's legal background and interest in higher education were what made him suitable to serve on this small but important council.\n\nFlint took up residence in Boston during his time with the Board of Agriculture, and would remain involved in the city's school committee for a number of years there. It's unclear what exact year this involvement began, but Charles Flint's name is consistently listed in reports from 1867 through 1880. Throughout this time he would sit on many different subcommittees including (though not limited to), the city high school committee (as chair), the Rice Grammar School committee (as chair), the committee on music, the committee on drawing, the Franklin school district committee, the fifth division committee, the girls' high and normal school committee, and the city committee for school-houses.\n\nIn each of the years that he was involved with the city school committee, Flint would contribute to the Annual Report along with other members. The exact nature of his role in the organization is rarely outlined, however a thoroughly detailed account of his efforts in the Rice Grammar School subcommittee can be found in the 1869 report. Herein is a transcript of the building's dedication including Flint's speech and exchange of words with Mayor Shurtleff and former Governor Alexander H. Rice, for whom the school was named after.\n\nFlint placed his final resignation to the Board effective September 1, 1880. The secretaryship position paid relatively little, and after performing such duties for 27 years, Flint decided to go on to more lucrative business, becoming president of the New England Mortgage Security Company upon leaving the Board. The job, though following the work Flint pursued earlier in his life, was anything but relaxing, with a number clients inevitably taking the company to court over perceived violations.\n\nFlint still remained involved in agriculture, though to a lesser extent, and remained an active member of the Massachusetts Horticultural Society and the Boston Society of Natural History in his later years. He would also give a speech on the agricultural college's history at the cornerstone laying ceremonies for the new Stone Chapel in 1884.\n\nFor years he had been plagued with poor health, and would frequently take train rides south to recuperate for weeks at a time; accompanied by friend and associate O.B. Hadwen, his last trip proved too little and too much. After arriving days earlier, Charles Louis Flint died at the Electric Mound Hotel of Hillman, Georgia on Tuesday, February 26, 1889, at the age of 64.\n\nThough he left the Board of Agriculture in 1880, the name Charles Flint would not be forgotten by its members with many of their later publications paying him tribute. William Sessions, the third secretary of the board said of Flint in 1893, \"Time would fail me were I to describe the work accomplished by the first secretary...in the twenty seven years he served the Board.\" In the same year a portrait of Flint was donated to the Board by one of his sons, it would hang in the organization's office for a number of years, though its current whereabouts are unknown.\n\nThe Charles Flint Public Library, of Middleton, Massachusetts was established in 1891 with a $15,000 endowment left to the town in Flint's will. Before this time however, all other libraries of the town had been impermanent and with notably sparse collections. When the Flint Library was established it had a total of 5,000 volumes, compared with the present library collection which currently contains upwards of \"40,000 books, 1300 videotapes, 1100 audiotapes and subscriptions to 185 periodicals.\" \n\nFlint would also donate $10,000 to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, $5,000 to the Genealogical and Natural History societies, $5,000 to the Phillips Academy in the name of a scholarship, and $1,000 to the Massachusetts Home of Intemperate Women. Of the $10,000 donated to MIT, $5,000 would be dedicated to a scholarship fund in \"support of some worthy student, [with] preference to be given some graduate of the English High School, Boston\".\n\nAt the time of writing, the Hon. Charles L. Flint lives on in name alone, with much of his and others' works of the 19th century agricultural science movement having fallen into relative obscurity in the last century. At the University of Massachusetts Amherst a dairy laboratory was built in his name in 1912, however the proposal for the building only credits him as the \"fourth president of the Massachusetts Agricultural College\", lacking mention of his extensive work in the state's other agricultural and educational affairs. The building, known as Flint Laboratory, has since been converted into offices for use by the Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management.\n\nFlint would write a considerable amount of essays over the years, many covering agricultural and horticultural subjects, with particular focus on pomology, grains, dairy farming and the history of agricultural practices. The works listed below represent an incomplete catalog of the many works he contributed to periodicals and annual reports over the years.\n<br>\n\nPrinted on an annual basis with 12,000 copies each, these reports, from 1854 until 1880, were compiled and edited by Charles L. Flint. Each contains developments in cultivation techniques, advances in agricultural technology, accounts of different farming localities and architecture, and the annual financial and crop returns of the state's agricultural societies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34742632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34742632", "title": "Chinese Medical Herbology and Pharmacology", "text": "Chinese Medical Herbology and Pharmacology\n\nChinese Medical Herbology and Pharmacology is a text on Chinese herbology by Dr. John K. Chen and Tina T. Chen. It is one of the few comprehensive texts on Chinese herbology in existence that has been published in the English and German language, and it is widely recognized by the oriental medicine community as both a valid teaching tool used in many oriental medicine universities in the US, as well as a reference book that is widely cited by many academic individuals and practitioners. In addition to the traditional and modern uses of Chinese herbology, this text is also a tremendous source that details clinical studies and research, safety data and toxicology, as well as western pharmacological and herb-drug interactions. This text is also part of the required knowledge from the national (NCCAOM) as well as many state Acupuncture licensing boards. It has been and continues to be cited in many published articles and papers on Chinese Herbal Medicine, especially those that cover the subject of pharmacological and herbal interactions.\n"}
{"id": "1432841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1432841", "title": "Chronica Jutensis", "text": "Chronica Jutensis\n\nChronica Jutensis (Danish: \"Jyske Krønike\" English: \"Jutland Chronicle\") also known as Continuatio compendii Saxonis or Chronica Danorum, is a small Danish historical work from the middle of the 14th century, written in Latin. It comes with a smaller summary edition, about one-fourth the size of the original, of Saxo’s \"Gesta Danorum\", known as \"Compendium Saxonis\".\n\nThe original manuscript is lost; however the work survives in four different handwritten copies, about a hundred years younger. One of them was written by a monk from Odense in 1431. \n\nThe stories of \"Chronica Jutensis\" begin approximately where \"Gesta Danorum\" ends, in King Canute VI's reign, just before King Valdemar II gains the throne, and end with the beginning of King Valdemar Atterdag's reign, about 1342.\n\nIt was written somewhere around 1342–1350. Since the book does not mention Estonia being sold to the Livonian Order, which happened on 29 September 1346, it must have been written before this date or only shortly after. It would probably not be common knowledge for a few years, so it may have been written after 1346.\n\nThe author is not known. It is, however, thought that he was from Jutland because Jutland events and persons are thoroughly described and it seems that the writer is confident with both the topography and persons of Jutland.\n\nLatin copies reside in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50258658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50258658", "title": "Coalition of Imam's Line groups", "text": "Coalition of Imam's Line groups\n\nCoalition of Imam's Line groups (; E'telāf-e Goruhhā-ye Khatt-e Emām) was an Iranian political alliance active in 1990s, consisting of Islamic radical leftist groups later emerging current reformists.\n\nAn ally of Association of Combatant Clerics, the coalition endorsed their list for the 1992 parliamentary election and isseud its own list for 1996 elections.\n\nEconomically, the group opposed privatization and emphasized social justice, equal distribution of wealth, state control over economy using continuation of subsidy and rationing. In foreign policy, they supported export of the revolution, support of Islamic movements abroad and confrontation with the United States.\n\nMembers of the alliance were:\n\n"}
{"id": "26967147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26967147", "title": "Comparison of Adobe Flex charts", "text": "Comparison of Adobe Flex charts\n\nThe following comparison of Adobe Flex charts provides charts classification, compares Flex chart products for different chart type availability and for different visual features like 3D versions of charts.\n\nThis gallery shows:\n\n"}
{"id": "19845056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19845056", "title": "Comparison of feed aggregators", "text": "Comparison of feed aggregators\n\nThe following is a comparison of RSS feed aggregators. Often e-mail programs and web browsers have the ability to display RSS feeds. They are listed here, too.\n\nMany BitTorrent clients support RSS feeds for broadcatching (see Comparison of BitTorrent clients).\n\nWith the rise of Cloud computing, some cloud based services offer feed aggregation. They are listed here as well.\n\nNetscape Messenger 9 is a fork of Mozilla Thunderbird and has the same features.\n\nWeb browsers and Internet suites have for \"browser plugin\" a N/A, because they don't need it.\n"}
{"id": "38914891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38914891", "title": "Diamond (narrowboat)", "text": "Diamond (narrowboat)\n\nDiamond was built by John Crichton & Co. of Saltney, Chester for Midland and Coast Canal Carrying Company of Wolverhampton. The boat was built in Chester in 1927 and first registered at Wolverhampton in 1928. She was one of six iron boats in the fleet fitted with two cabins for long distance traffic between the Black Country and the ports on the Mersey Estuary. Having been damaged during an air raid on Birmingham in 1944 she was sold for scrap to Ernest Thomas by Fellows, Morton & Clayton who had by then acquired Midlands and Coast. Rebuilt and renamed ‘Henry’ she carried coal until the 1960s when she was resold to ‘Caggy’ Stevens of Oldbury and renamed ‘Susan’.\nIt is now owned by the Black Country Living Museum, where it is based and can be seen dockside in the Lord Ward’s Canal Arm at the Black Country Living Museum in Dudley.\nDiamond is on the \"National Historic Ships\" register.\n\n"}
{"id": "13097080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13097080", "title": "Dictionnaire des Antiquités Grecques et Romaines", "text": "Dictionnaire des Antiquités Grecques et Romaines\n\nThe Dictionnaire des Antiquités Grecques et Romaines d'après les textes et les monuments, contenant l'explication des termes qui se rapportent aux mœurs, aux institutions, à la religion, aux arts, aux sciences, au costume, au mobilier, à la guerre, à la marine, aux métiers, aux monnaies, poids et mesures, etc. etc., et en général à la vie publique et privée des anciens was a large illustrated French-language dictionary of Ancient Greece and Rome edited by Charles Victor Daremberg and Edmond Saglio and published in 10 volumes between 1873 and 1919 by the publisher Hachette Livre in Paris. Individual entries consisted of (sometimes book-length) articles by prominent classical scholars, François Lenormant among them. It aimed to compete directly with the \"Altertumswissenschaft\" of German universities, who were the uncontested masters in the field from 1810 onward. In an 1887 review of the first volume of the \"Dictionnaire\" for \"The Classical Review\", John E. B. Mayor praised the result, saying \"No other nation as yet possesses anything approaching to it in beauty and completeness; it is absolutely necessary to every classical library and to every public library frequented by scholars or artists.\"\n\nThe \"Dictionnaire\" represented a work of extraordinary volume and was published at a slow pace. It took eleven issuings to finally complete volume 1, which spanned 1,703 pages and only covered through the letter C, in 1886. The first volume included 3,000 illustrations. Each of the eleven parts of the first volume, printed in large quarto form, was sold for five francs. Some thirty years after it was begun, the \"Dictionnaire\" had only reached the middle of the alphabet.\n\nToday the dictionary has value as a legacy work, amongst the other large dictionaries of antiquity that appeared in Europe around the same time: starting in 1893, the Germans published the monumental \"Realencyclopädie der Classischen Altertumswissenschaft\" in eighty-three volumes; the Italian \"Dizionario epigrafico di antichità romana\" began in 1886; the English also published several dictionaries concerning the fields of classical antiquity, including William Smith's 1,300-page \"A Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities\", first published in 1842.\n\nAlthough the articles are sourced from scholarship in a number of different fields, its contents are no longer up-to-date because of archaeological, epigraphical, and numismatic discoveries made in the years since the \"Dictionnaire\"'s writing. The problems of studies of classical antiquity have also been profoundly renewed in the intervening years thanks to the contributions of sociology and anthropology, fields from which specialists in antiquity have integrated the methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "3302122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302122", "title": "Domains by Proxy", "text": "Domains by Proxy\n\nDomains by Proxy (DBP) is an Internet company owned by GoDaddy founder Bob Parsons. It offers domain privacy services through partner domain registrars such as Go Daddy and Wild West Domains.\n\nSubscribers list Domains by Proxy as their administrative and technical contacts in the Internet's WHOIS database, thereby delegating responsibility for managing unsolicited contacts from third parties and keeping the domains owners' personal information secret. However, the company will release a registrant's personal information in some cases, such as by court order or for other reasons as deemed appropriate by the company per its Domain Name Proxy Agreement. \n\nOver 9,850,000 domain names currently use the Domains by Proxy service.\n\nIn the run-up to the 2012 United States presidential primaries, numerous domain names with derogatory expressions have been registered through Domains by Proxy by both Republicans and Democrats.\n\nDomains by Proxy have allegedly been a target of the Internet organization Anonymous due to perceived malicious business activities including inducements to join their service, claims of privacy that are not fulfilled and the lowering of Google PageRank of the sites they link to.\n\nControversially, Domains By Proxy is also used by a number of organizations such as Clearance.co that target vulnerable individuals by sending threatening psychic letters, such as zodiac-services.com, and fake drug companies such as the now-defunct uk-online-pharmacy.com.\n\nAdvance Fee fraudsters also use Domains By Proxy. On 5 Feb 2016, the Artists Against 419 database reflected 1124 out of 108684 entries abused the services of Domains By Proxy. This represents a figure of slightly over one percent of the entries. \n\nIn 2014, Domains by Proxy handed over personal details of a site owner to Motion Picture Association due to potential copyright infringement despite the website not hosting any copyrighted files.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39016128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39016128", "title": "G.E.E. Lindquist Native American Photographs Collection", "text": "G.E.E. Lindquist Native American Photographs Collection\n\nThe G.E.E. Lindquist Native American Photographs Collection is an online presentation of the 1322 photographs, 124 postcards, 388 negatives, and 34 glass plate negatives/lantern slides, which derive from the G.E.E. Lindquist Papers archival collection at The Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary, Columbia University in the City of New York.\n\nThey depict the people, places, and practices of Native Americans and their communities from at least 34 States, plus Canada and Mexico in the period from 1909-1953. The majority of the images were taken by G. E. E. Lindquist (1886-1967), an itinerant representative of the ecumenical Home Missions Council of the Federal Council of Churches.\n\nSourced from Lindquist's archival papers, the Lindquist online image collection depicts the people, places, and practices of Native American communities from the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. These photographs were taken by Lindquist, an ordained home missions administrator, as he traveled to reservations from 1909 to 1953 as part of his work with the Home Mission Council of the Federal Council of Churches.\n\nOnline access is now available to the collection, which includes 1322 photographs, 124 postcards, 388 negatives, and 34 glass plate negatives/lantern slides.\n\nThis collection consists of individual and group portraits, landscapes, buildings, agricultural and industrial scenes, cemeteries, parades and pageants, leisure activities, weather events, modes of transportation, and living conditions across a variety of Native communities.\n\nThe photographs will be of considerable research value to scholars and researchers exploring topics in 20th Native American history, anthropology, Christian missions, architecture, photography, and the trans-Mississippi West.\n\nThe primary finding aid is available at the Burke Library website.\n"}
{"id": "15121043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15121043", "title": "GOST 7.67", "text": "GOST 7.67\n\nGOST 7.67 or ISO 3166-88 is GOST standard for country codes.\n\nThe standard defines country names in Russian and English language, Cyrillic three-letter country codes, Latin three- and two-letter country codes, as well as numeric country codes. The latter three are the same as ISO 3166 codes (though, in practice, differences can arise due to changes in ISO 3166 that are still not introduced in GOST 7.67, for example three-letter code for Romania ROM, which is changed to ROU).\n\n"}
{"id": "1456276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1456276", "title": "German student movement", "text": "German student movement\n\nThe German student movement (also called 68er-Bewegung, movement of 1968, or soixante-huitards) was a protest movement that took place during the late 1960s in West Germany. It was largely a reaction against the perceived authoritarianism and hypocrisy of the West German government and other Western governments, and the poor living conditions of students. A wave of protests—some violent—swept West Germany, fueled by violent over-reaction by the police and encouraged by contemporary protest movements across the world. Following more than a century of conservatism among German students, the German student movement also marked a significant major shift to the left and radicalization of student activism.\n\nIn 1966, for the first time in fifteen years, the German economy went into a slight recession and the FDP finally withdrew from the Second Erhard cabinet (Ludwig Erhard's CDU/CSU/FDP coalition government) in late October 1966. With the forming of the CDU/CSU/SPD coalition government under Kurt Georg Kiesinger (the first Grand coalition), the FDP (having 50 of 518 Bundestag seats) was the only voice of the opposition within the Bundestag. This led some students to conclude that this encouraged authoritarian and anti-democratic attitudes in government and therefore justified and indeed necessitated the transfer of opposition from parliament to bodies outside it (→ Außerparlamentarische Opposition). At the same time, the shock of realizing that the \"Wirtschaftswunder\" could not last forever led many in the student body, influenced by Marxist economic theory, to believe that the economic wealth of the nation, instead of improving the standard of living of the working class, would destroy it and lead to an ever-growing gap between the rich and the poor.\n\nThrough their critical work on many different topics and the reactions of the public and the government itself, these main goals formed in the minds of the students:\n\n\nThe first goal may have been the source of all the others and thus the most important in their minds.\n\nTo summarize, the students rejected traditional, parliamentary decision making-processes, social injustice and the inequalities of wealth. They felt the need to overcome and change these things.\n\nTo the students, the German chapter of Fascism was not yet closed. Many former National Socialists were still working for the government or at the universities (in fact, then-Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger had formerly been a member of the NSDAP) and the newly formed right-wing National Democratic Party of Germany (NPD) was attracting more and more voters. In addition to that, the students had to deal with the fact that they were identified as Germans and blamed for the crimes committed by their parents' generation.\n\nThe students did not want to be held responsible for their parents' deeds. But their parents acted as if it were no concern of theirs; when the students tried to show the public that the anti-fascist idea of the constitution was not yet established in German society, the government and the press felt extremely offended, feeling they had formed a democratic society and did not want it to be attacked.\n\nTo support its new economic policies the government wanted to change the universities, producing graduates faster by introducing a time limit on courses and limiting the number of students. The students, however, did not want to adjust to the needs of the economy and the government. Rather, they wanted to adjust the universities to their own principles. They wanted more rights in the running of universities, better-equipped workplaces and the expulsion of the professors who had been active during the Third Reich. The university boards did not react to the students' protest and introduced the time limit for studying.\n\nWhen this time limit was introduced at the Free University of Berlin during the summer holidays of 1966 the students were not there, and so were unable to protest against it; instead, the first big sit-in of the German student movement happened when they returned after the holidays, with about 4,000 participants. The events at the Free University of Berlin are representative of the events at all universities in Germany, as the same events were quickly repeated elsewhere.\n\nThrough their increasing interest in politics the students quickly engaged in discussions concerning the war in Vietnam. They formed the opinion that the United States had no right to fight in Vietnam, not only because of the victims but mainly because of what they saw as an imperialistic foreign policy.\n\nThe government, however, supported the USA in the Vietnam War, and provided humanitarian and economic support to South Vietnam. For this reason, university boards put a ban on political activities by students (\"e.g.\", discussions) at the universities. They explained this act by saying that science should always be neutral. The students wanted to be able to act politically, not only because of the war in Vietnam, but to protest against the conditions in the Third World as students and not only as individuals.\n\nThe students were strongly opposed to the German Emergency Acts which were due to be passed, which would allow the government to limit civil rights in the case of an emergency. Among other things, they would allow the government to restrict freedom of movement and to limit privacy and confidentiality of telecommunications correspondence.\n\nBy 1966 the number of students that were interested in the conflict between the students and the authorities had increased. Many of those who had not been interested before became at least passively interested by now. This newly formed public took part in the demonstrations, sit-ins and other protest actions arranged by the students and their organizations, \"e.g.\", the Sozialistischer Deutscher Studentenbund (SDS).\n\nThe government tried to defuse the situation by decreasing the funds for universities and student organizations and by turning public opinion against the students with the help of the press. The view that students should study and not demonstrate grew stronger. The students were also repressed in the streets by the police. Yet, the more pressure the government put on the students, the more they came together.\n\nOn 2 June 1967 the conflict would finally escalate. Students had organized demonstrations against the official visit by the Shah of Iran. In their opinion, the German government was demonstrating a positive attitude towards a dictatorial government that was suppressing and torturing its own people.\n\nDuring the first demonstration in front of the Opera House, which the Shah was visiting, the police of Berlin and the Iranian service attacked the protestors. In the turmoil, the unarmed student Benno Ohnesorg was shot in the head from behind and killed by Polizeiobermeister (Police Sergeant) Karl-Heinz Kurras (in fact, Karl-Heinz Kurras was an agent of the East German secret service, the Stasi).\n\nThe following days saw many demonstrations throughout the whole republic against what was perceived as police brutality. The students in Berlin, however, were anxious and in a desperate situation. The police were preventing them from gathering in public, the universities had submitted their authority to the government and the press wrote that the students were the brutal and aggressive component of the demonstrations and that they had provoked the death of Benno Ohnesorg. Even though there were some students groups supporting the idea of a violent revolution the protesting students were mostly peaceful.\n\nFor the following days the students took over control of the Free University of Berlin. Finally being able to meet again, they used the time to discuss and reflect on the events of the past days.\n\nThe spirit of the students in Berlin spread across the whole country. In autumn 1967 there were organized protest groups at nearly all universities in Germany. In the following months some of the largest and most brutal demonstrations in the history of the German republic happened. The press, especially the tabloid \"Bild-Zeitung\" newspaper was telling the public what to think about those protesters. Its publisher, Axel Springer, did not publish any positive articles about the students. Springer supported the government and was spreading the government's views among its readers.\n\nAt Easter 1968, there was an attempted assassination of one of the most important members of the SDS, Rudi Dutschke. The students were outraged because the \"Springer\" press and the government had named Rudi Dutschke their \"public enemy\". Overnight students all over Germany organized actions to block the delivery of the \"Bild-Zeitung\" by building blockades and protesting in front of \"Springer\" buildings. During these actions about 400 students were injured and two died. Rudi Dutschke died in 1979 of the late after-effects of his injury.\n\nThe revolt against the government reached its climax in May 1968. Students, schoolchildren and members of workers' unions formed a group of 80,000 people who demonstrated in the capital Bonn against the emergency legislature. Even though the students mobilized as many people as possible to support their actions they could not stop the Bundestag from passing the new law.\n\nThis failure marks the beginning of the end for the student movement. The former union of many small student groups representing different theories on the same topics was falling apart because they were blaming other groups' theories and thinking for the failure of the whole movement. By the end of the year even the SDS, the strongest of all student organizations, was falling into pieces.\n\nThrough their political work women came to the conclusion that they were being suppressed by a patriarchal society, and that they had to change this condition. In addition to that the student movement brought up many theories on education and the raising of children which have influenced the modern forms of these processes. These changes and the huge influence on culture and art were probably the most important effects of the student movement.\n\nAn indirect effect was the \"radical decree\" which was passed in 1972. It allowed the government to prevent the employment of people in the public services if there were grounds to believe that they did not support the free and democratic principles (freiheitliche demokratische Grundordnung) outlined in the constitution (Grundgesetz). Under the decree, which gradually fell into disuse after 1976, around 3.5 million individuals were investigated and 10,000 refused employment (fewer than 0.3%); 130 were dismissed.\n\nA number of ministers in the Gerhard Schröder government were student activists in the 1960s and early 1970s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "423331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423331", "title": "IDEF", "text": "IDEF\n\nIDEF, initially abbreviation of ICAM Definition, renamed in 1999 as Integration DEFinition, refers to a family of modeling languages in the field of systems and software engineering. They cover a wide range of uses, from functional modeling to data, simulation, object-oriented analysis/design and knowledge acquisition. These \"definition languages\" were developed under funding from U.S. Air Force and although still most commonly used by them, as well as other military and United States Department of Defense (DoD) agencies, are in the public domain.\n\nThe most-widely recognized and used components of the IDEF family are IDEF0, a functional modeling language building on SADT, and IDEF1X, which addresses information models and database design issues.\n\nIDEF refers to a family of modeling language, which cover a wide range of uses, from functional modeling to data, simulation, object-oriented analysis/design and knowledge acquisition. Eventually the IDEF methods have been defined up to IDEF14: \n\nIn 1995 only the IDEF0, IDEF1X, IDEF2, IDEF3 and IDEF4 had been developed in full. Some of the other IDEF concepts had some preliminary design. Some of the last efforts were new IDEF developments in 1995 toward establishing reliable methods for business constraint discovery IDEF9, design rationale capture IDEF6, human system, interaction design IDEF8, and network design IDEF14. \n\nThe methods IDEF7, IDEF10, IDEF11, IDEF 12 and IDEF13 haven't been developed any further than their initial definition.\n\nIDEF originally stood for \"ICAM Definition\", initiated in the 1970s at the US Air Force Materials Laboratory, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio by Dennis E. Wisnosky, Dan L. Shunk and others. and completed in the 1980s. IDEF was a product of the Integrated Computer-Aided Manufacturing (ICAM) initiative of the United States Air Force. The IEEE recast the IDEF abbreviation as \"Integration DEFinition.\"\n\nThe specific projects that produced IDEF were ICAM project priorities 111 and 112 (later renumbered 1102). The subsequent Integrated Information Support System (IISS) project priorities 6201, 6202, and 6203 attempted to create an information processing environment that could be run in heterogeneous physical computing environments. Further development of IDEF occurred under those projects as a result of the experience gained from applications of the new modeling techniques. The intent of the IISS efforts was to create 'generic subsystems' that could be used by a large number of collaborating enterprises, such as U.S. defense contractors and the armed forces of friendly nations.\n\nAt the time of the ICAM 1102 effort there were numerous, mostly incompatible, data model methods for storing computer data — sequential (VSAM), hierarchical (IMS), network (Cincom's TOTAL and CODASYL, and Cullinet's IDMS). The relational data model was just emerging as a promising way of thinking about structuring data for easy, efficient, and accurate access. Relational database management systems had not yet emerged as a general standard for data management.\n\nThe ICAM program office deemed it valuable to create a \"neutral\" way of describing the data content of large-scale systems. The emerging academic literature suggested that methods were needed to process data independently of the way it was physically stored. Thus the IDEF1 language was created to allow a neutral description of data structures that could be applied regardless of the storage method or file access method.\n\nIDEF1 was developed under ICAM program priority 1102 by Dr Robert R. Brown of the Hughes Aircraft Company, under contract to SofTech, Inc. Dr Brown had previously been responsible for the development of IMS while working at Rockwell International. Rockwell chose not to pursue IMS as a marketable product but IBM, which had served as a support contractor during development, subsequently took over the product and was successful in further developing it for market. Dr Brown credits his Hughes' colleague Mr Timothy Ramey as the inventor of IDEF1 as a viable formalism for modeling information structures. The two Hughes' researchers built on ideas from and interactions with many luminaries in the field at the time. In particular, IDEF1 draws on the following techniques:\nThe effort to develop IDEF1 resulted in both a new method for information modeling and an example of its use in the form of a \"reference information model of manufacturing.\" This latter artifact was developed by D. S. Coleman of the D. Appleton Company (DACOM) acting as a sub-contractor to Hughes and under the direction of Mr Ramey. Personnel at DACOM became quite expert at IDEF1 modeling and subsequently produced a training course and accompanying materials for the IDEF1 modeling technique.\n\nExperience with IDEF1 revealed that the translation of \"information requirements\" into \"database designs\" was more difficult than had originally been anticipated. The most beneficial value of the IDEF1 information modeling technique was its ability to represent data independent of how those data were to be stored and used. It provided data modelers and data analysts with a way to represent \"data requirements\" during the requirements-gathering process. This allowed designers to decide which DBMS to use after the nature of the data requirements was understood and thus reduced the \"misfit\" between data requirements and the capabilities and limitations of the DBMS. The translation of IDEF1 models to database designs, however, proved to be difficult.\n\nThe IDEF0 functional modeling method is designed to model the decisions, actions, and activities of an organization or system. It was derived from the established graphic modeling language structured analysis and design technique (SADT) developed by Douglas T. Ross and SofTech, Inc.. In its original form, IDEF0 includes both a definition of a graphical modeling language (syntax and semantics) and a description of a comprehensive methodology for developing models. The US Air Force commissioned the SADT developers to develop a function model method for analyzing and communicating the functional perspective of a system. IDEF0 should assist in organizing system analysis and promote effective communication between the analyst and the customer through simplified graphical devices.\n\nTo satisfy the data modeling enhancement requirements that were identified in the IISS-6202 project, a sub-contractor, DACOM, obtained a license to the logical database design technique (LDDT) and its supporting software (ADAM). LDDT had been developed in 1982 by Robert G. Brown of The Database Design Group entirely outside the IDEF program and with no knowledge of IDEF1. LDDT combined elements of the relational data model, the E-R model, and generalization in a way specifically intended to support data modeling and the transformation of the data models into database designs. The graphic syntax of LDDT differed from that of IDEF1 and, more importantly, LDDT contained interrelated modeling concepts not present in IDEF1. Mary E. Loomis wrote a concise summary of the syntax and semantics of a substantial subset of LDDT, using terminology compatible with IDEF1 wherever possible. DACOM labeled the result IDEF1X and supplied it to the ICAM program. \n\nBecause the IDEF program was funded by the government, the techniques are in the public domain. In addition to the ADAM software, sold by DACOM under the name Leverage, a number of CASE tools use IDEF1X as their representation technique for data modeling. \n\nThe IISS projects actually produced working prototypes of an information processing environment that would run in heterogeneous computing environments. Current advancements in such techniques as Java and JDBC are now achieving the goals of ubiquity and versatility across computing environments which was first demonstrated by IISS.\n\nThe third IDEF (IDEF2) was originally intended as a user interface modeling method. However, since the Integrated Computer-Aided Manufacturing (ICAM) program needed a simulation modeling tool, the resulting IDEF2 was a method for representing the time varying behavior of resources in a manufacturing system, providing a framework for specification of math model based simulations. It was the intent of the methodology program within ICAM to rectify this situation but limitation of funding did not allow this to happen. As a result, the lack of a method which would support the structuring of descriptions of the user view of a system has been a major shortcoming of the IDEF system. The basic problem from a methodology point of view is the need to distinguish between a description of what a system (existing or proposed) is supposed to do and a representative simulation model that will predict what a system will do. The latter was the focus of IDEF2, the former is the focus of IDEF3.\n\nThe development of IDEF4 came from the recognition that the modularity, maintainability and code reusability that results from the object-oriented programming paradigm can be realized in traditional data processing applications. The proven ability of the object-oriented programming paradigm to support data level integration in large complex distributed systems is also a major factor in the widespread interest in this technology from the traditional data processing community.\n\nIDEF4 was developed as a design tool for software designers who use object-oriented languages such as the Common Lisp Object System, Flavors, Smalltalk, Objective-C, C++, and others. Since effective usage of the object-oriented paradigm requires a different thought process than used with conventional procedural or database languages, standard methodologies such as structure charts, data flow diagrams, and traditional data design models (hierarchical, relational, and network) are not sufficient. IDEF4 seeks to provide the necessary facilities to support the object-oriented design decision making process.\n\nIDEF5, or \"integrated definition for ontology description capture method\", is a software engineering method to develop and maintain usable, accurate, domain ontologies. In the field of computer science ontologies are used to capture the concept and objects in a specific domain, along with associated relationships and meanings. In addition, ontology capture helps coordinate projects by standardizing terminology and creates opportunities for information reuse. The IDEF5 Ontology Capture Method has been developed to reliably construct ontologies in a way that closely reflects human understanding of the specific domain.\n\nIn the IDEF5 method, an ontology is constructed by capturing the content of certain assertions about real-world objects, their properties and their interrelationships, and representing that content in an intuitive and natural form. The IDEF5 method has three main components: A graphical language to support conceptual ontology analysis, a structured text language for detailed ontology characterization, and a systematic procedure that provides guidelines for effective ontology capture.\n\nIDEF6, or \"integrated definition for design rationale capture\", is a method to facilitate the acquisition, representation, and manipulation of the design rationale used in the development of enterprise systems. Rationale is the reason, justification, underlying motivation, or excuse that moved the designer to select a particular strategy or design feature. More simply, rationale is interpreted as the answer to the question, “Why is this design being done in this manner?” Most design methods focus on what the design is (i.e. on the final product, rather than why the design is the way it is). \n\nIDEF6 will be a method that possesses the conceptual resources and linguistic capabilities needed\nIDEF6 is applicable to all phases of the information system development process, from initial conceptualization through both preliminary and detailed design activities. To the extent that detailed design decisions for software systems are relegated to the coding phase, the IDEF6 technique should be usable during the software construction process as well.\n\nIDEF8, or \"integrated definition for human-system interaction design\", is a method for producing high-quality designs of interactions between users and the systems they operate. Systems are characterized as a collection of objects that perform functions to accomplish a particular goal. The system with which the user interacts can be any system, not necessarily a computer program. Human-system interactions are designed at three levels of specification within the IDEF8 method. The first level defines the philosophy of system operation and produces a set of models and textual descriptions of overall system processes. The second level of design specifies role-centered scenarios of system use. The third level of IDEF8 design is for human-system design detailing. At this level of design, IDEF8 provides a library of metaphors to help users and designers specify the desired behavior in terms of other objects whose behavior is more familiar. Metaphors provide a model of abstract concepts in terms of familiar, concrete objects and experiences.\n\nIDEF9, or \"integrated definition for business constraint discovery\", is designed to assist in the discovery and analysis of constraints in a business system. A primary motivation driving the development of IDEF9 was an acknowledgment that the collection of constraints that forge an enterprise system is generally poorly defined. The knowledge of what constraints exist and how those constraints interact is incomplete, disjoint, distributed, and often completely unknown. This situation is not necessarily alarming. Just as living organisms do not need to be aware of the genetic or autonomous constraints that govern certain behaviors, organizations can (and most do) perform well without explicit knowledge of the glue that structures the system. In order to modify business in a predictable manner, however, the knowledge of these constraints is as critical as knowledge of genetics is to the genetic engineer.\n\nIDEF14, or \"integrated definition for network design method\", is a method that targets the modeling and design of computer and communication networks. It can be used to model existing (\"as is\") or envisioned (\"to be\") networks. It helps the network designer to investigate potential network designs and to document design rationale. The fundamental goals of the IDEF14 research project developed from a perceived need for good network designs that can be implemented quickly and accurately.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22243381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22243381", "title": "IStorez", "text": "IStorez\n\niStorez, Inc. was a comparison shopping website that specialized in discounted products. It was acquired by TheFind in August 2009, likely for under $500,000.\n\niStorez launched in beta on January 30, 2008, and launched publicly on November 12, 2008. It was founded by Anand Jagannathan, CEO of parent company Kriyari, Inc., and founder of three other start-ups including Banyan Systems and Responsys. iStorez is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California.\n\n\niStorez was a 2009 Codie awards finalist for 'Best eCommerce Solution'.\n"}
{"id": "42742619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42742619", "title": "James F. Walker", "text": "James F. Walker\n\nJames F. Walker (October 8, 1913 – February 5, 1994) was an American graphic artist, twice named to the 100 Best New Talent List by \"Art in America\". Walker was particularly noted for his mixed media surrealist images, which he called \"magic realism.\" Walker was also an influential teacher. His work has been exhibited in America, as well as in Germany and in France.\n\nWalker was born in Kirksville, Missouri, to James Franklin Walker Sr. and Mable Azalea Hunt. Walker's father was a landscape artist and an early influence, and his brother is also an artist. Walker's passion for art evolved over his lifetime into a career as artist and teacher. He studied at the University of Iowa in Iowa City receiving a BFA. He then moved to New York City, where he studied at the American Artists School and at the studio of Nahum Tschacbasov. His work was influenced by Tschacbasov's surrealist images.\n\nWalker joined the army in 1941, serving in the Aleutian Islands until 1945. During the war, he married Leona Buchanan. They had one child, Joy Walker Hall. After World War II, he returned to the University of Iowa for an MA in art history and an MFA in studio printmaking. At that time, he studied under Mauricio Lasansky, considered \"one of the fathers of twentieth-century American printmaking.\" Lasansky had brought his printmaking skills and techniques from Stanley William Hayter's New York Atelier 17 to the University of Iowa School of Art and History (1945–1986). \"If there is such a thing as a printmaking capital of the U.S., it could well be the Department of Graphic Arts at the State University of Iowa in Iowa City.\"\n\nAfter an interval teaching art in Kansas, Walker took a teaching position at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago (1954–1959). While at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, \"Art in America\" twice named him to the 100 Best New Talent List, 1956 and 1959.\n\nMany years later, Santa Fe artist Lorraine Dickinson remembered her time in Walker's drawing and collage classes at the School of the Art Institute. Her work was \"all in the representational mode,\" she said. \"I didn't get into abstract until I studied with James F. Walker in Chicago. He was determined that we were all going to stop painting traditionally. It was like pulling teeth but I finally got it. A few times I tried to revert back to representational, but I get so bored with it.\"\n\nIn 1960, Walker accepted a teaching position at Arlington High School and later at Elk Grove High School, both in Northwest Suburban High School District 214. When interviewed by the Arlington High School newspaper, \"The Cardinal\", Walker explained his philosophy of education: \"The art department isn't run especially for the talented student, but rather to enrich the cultural background for all students.\" He retired from teaching in 1975 and moved with his family to Gravette, Arkansas, where he continued to work as an artist until his death in 1994.\n\nRichard Calisch, division head of English and Fine Arts at Elk Grove High School said, \"[Walker] was that special combination who had his own career and was also a fine teacher. The kids loved him.\"\n\nWalker's work builds on the legacy of his teacher, Mauricio Lasansky. Walker combines a spectrum of Lasansky's graphic techniques, including collage, monoprints, aquatint, pencil, brush, rubbings, etchings, and silkscreen. All combinations of these techniques appear in Walker's work.\n\nIn a statement to the Chicago Society of Artists, Walker described his own work:\n\nMy paintings project my intense concern for, and interest in, the nature of texture surfaces within the context of meticulously rendered forms, revealing the essence of Magic Realism, a microscopic view of every infinitesimal area upon the canvas.\n\nAs he said to a reporter from \"Algonquin Life\", an Algonquin, Illinois, community newspaper,\n\nA good artist paints what he sees, lives, thinks, and feels, although his finished product may not have the slightest congruency to what the ordinary person visualizes. In other words, he doesn't invent pictures—he portrays impressions—again, by what he sees, how he thinks, how he feels. The mistake that a young art student continues to make is this example: the country boy treks to the big city to attend art school. He decides that now he must paint with sophistication—rejecting all of his past association with country life, the hills, the trees, the farm animals, etc. This is a mistake.\n\nWalker is perhaps best known for \"L.H. Double O.Q.,\" often referred to as his \"Eisenhower Mona Lisa\", although Wide World Photos referred to it as \"Ike the Enigma.\" \"L.H. Double O.Q.\" won the Award for Collage, Casein, and Drawing in the 1964 Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago and Vicinity Show. It is a satirical image of one of America's greatest heroes. His painting is a reference to Marcel Duchamp's 1919 painting \"L.H.O.O.Q.\" In this work, Duchamp simply painted a mustache and beard onto a postcard reproduction of the \"Mona Lisa.\" Walker went further.\n\nWalker's painting—probably his most famous and controversial work—caused a media stir. It was a satirical portrait of President Dwight D. Eisenhower in drag with a Mona Lisa smile.\n\nThe big hit or most popular outrage, if you prefer—at this year's exhibit is a picture starkly titled, \"L.H. Double O.Q.\" It has the smiling face of President Eisenhower in a Mona Lisa pose, complete with headdress. A pair of false teeth floats in the sky. Somebody's antique hands—not Ike's—are in repose.\n\nA standalone photo in the \"Chicago Daily Defender\" called it \"a 'kooky' portrait of Dwight D. Eisenhower in a Mona Lisa pose…\" According to a caption from UPI Telephotos, Walker \"titled it \"L.H. Double O.Q.\" for what was 'no special reason at all.'\" Wide World Photos and UPI Telephotos broadcast photos of \"L.H. Double O.Q.\" to the world. Opinions on the piece fell roughly into two categories: \"I like Ike,\" or \"I don't like Ike.\"\n\n\"I found James Walker's collage, \"Creation of Eve\", particularly good with its curious integration of old objects and new movement.\"\n\nWalker's works are included in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, Kansas Friends of Art, University of Iowa, and numerous private collections. Three pieces by Walker are in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago: \"Pygmalion\" (1950), \"Birds in a Landscape\" (1952), and \"Landscape\" (1961).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39002348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39002348", "title": "Korean Central History Museum", "text": "Korean Central History Museum\n\nThe Korean Central History Museum is a museum located in Pyongyang, North Korea. It was established on December 1, 1945. It contains displays on Korean history from primitive society to the modern age. The museum is located at the north end of Kim Il-sung Square.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28956713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28956713", "title": "Kunstgewerbemuseum Berlin", "text": "Kunstgewerbemuseum Berlin\n\nThe Kunstgewerbemuseum, or Museum of Decorative Arts, is an internationally important museum of the decorative arts in Berlin, Germany, part of the Staatliche Museen zu Berlin (Berlin State Museums). The collection is split between the Kunstgewerbemuseum building at the Kulturforum and Köpenick Palace \n\nIt was founded in 1868 as the \"Deutsches Gewerbe-Museum zu Berlin\", and originally had a teaching institute as well as a public museum. The collection grew significantly in the 1870s, and it was renamed \"Kunstgewerbemuseum\" in 1879. In 1881 it relocated into the Martin-Gropius-Bau – where Priam's Treasure was also on display for a time – and in 1921 it moved into the Stadtschloss.\n\nParts of the collection were destroyed in World War II, and the surviving items were split between East and West Berlin. The Eastern collection moved into Köpenick Palace in 1963, while the Western exhibits moved first into Charlottenburg Palace, then into the new museum building in the Kulturforum in 1985, built by Rolf Gutbrod.\n\nThe Kunstgewerbemuseum displays European (and Byzantine) decorative arts from all post-classical periods of art history, and features gold, silver, glass and enamel items, porcelain, furniture, panelling, tapestry, costumes, and silks.There is a very important collection of Late Antique objects in many media. The items from the Middle Ages include a large number of gold reliquaries. The Renaissance is represented by silverware from the city councillors of Lüneburg, and bronze sculptures, tapestries, furniture, Venetian glasses and maiolicas from the Italian princely courts.\n\nThe Baroque era is represented by faiences from Delft, and glass items. There is also European porcelain (particularly from Meissen and the Royal Manufacturer of Berlin), and decorative crockery from the rococo, classicist, historicist and Art Nouveau styles. The \"New Collection\" of 20th century craftwork includes industrially-manufactured products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46902242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46902242", "title": "Lancichinetti–Fortunato–Radicchi benchmark", "text": "Lancichinetti–Fortunato–Radicchi benchmark\n\nLancichinetti–Fortunato–Radicchi (LFR) benchmark is an algorithm that generates benchmark networks (artificial networks that resemble real-world networks). They have \"a priori\" known communities and are used to compare different community detection methods. The advantage of LFR over other methods is that it accounts for the heterogeneity in the distributions of node degrees and of community sizes.\n\nThe node degrees and the community sizes are distributed according to a power law, with different exponents. LFR assumes that both the degree and the community size have power law distributions with different exponents, formula_1 and formula_2, respectively. formula_3 is the number of nodes and the average degree is formula_4. There is a mixing parameter formula_5, which is the average fraction of neighboring nodes of a node that do not belong to any community that the benchmark node belongs to. This parameter controls the fraction of edges that are between communities. Thus, it reflects the amount of noise in the network. At the extremes, when formula_6 all links are within community links, if formula_7 all links are between nodes belonging to different communities.\n\nOne can generate a LFR benchmark network in the following steps.\n\nStep 1: Generate a network with nodes following a power law distribution with exponent formula_1 and choose extremes of the distribution formula_9 and formula_10 to get desired average degree is formula_11.\n\nStep 2: formula_12 fraction of links of every node is with nodes of the same community, while fraction formula_5 is with the other nodes.\n\nStep 3: Generate community sizes from a power law distribution with exponent formula_2. The sum of all sizes must be equal to formula_3. The minimal and maximal community sizes formula_16 and formula_17 must satisfy the definition of community so that every non-isolated node is in at least in one community:\n\nStep 4: Initially, no nodes are assigned to communities. Then, each node is randomly assigned to a community. As long as the number of neighboring nodes within the community does not exceed the community size a new node is added to the community, otherwise stays out. In the following iterations the “homeless” node is randomly assigned to some community. If that community is complete, i.e. the size is exhausted, a randomly selected node of that community must be unlinked. Stop the iteration when all the communities are complete and all the nodes belong to at least one community.\n\nStep 5: Implement rewiring of nodes keeping the same node degrees but only affecting the fraction of internal and external links such that the number of links outside the community for each node is approximately equal to the mixing parameter formula_5.\n\nConsider a partition into communities that do not overlap. The communities of randomly chosen nodes in each iteration follow a formula_21 distribution that represents the probability that a randomly picked node is from the community formula_22. Consider a partition of the same network that was predicted by some community finding algorithm and has formula_23 distribution. The benchmark partition has formula_24 distribution.\nThe joint distribution is formula_25. The similarity of these two partitions is captured by the normalized mutual information.\n\nIf formula_27 the benchmark and the detected partitions are identical, and if formula_28 then they are independent of each other.\n"}
{"id": "54444447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54444447", "title": "List of Czech films considered the best", "text": "List of Czech films considered the best\n\nThis article shows notable survey—either by critics or by the public of best Czech films. Some surveys focus on all Czech films, while others focus on a particular genre. It can be the highest ranked Czech exponent of an international poll.\n\nThis section shows results of Best Czech film polls.\n\n1994 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival survey\n\n1998 poll of 55 Czech and Slovak film critics and publicists\nFilmové dědictví 2007\nReflex Poll 2011\nSight & Sound Poll 2012\n\nReflex Poll 2011\n\nFilmové dědictví 2007\nMedia Desk Poll 2010\n\nReflex Poll 2011\n\nKánon 100 Poll 2018\n1998 public survey \"Comedy of the Century\"\nPublic Survey by Novinky.cz 2007\nKinobox rating 2017\nDáma rating 2012\nKinobox rating 2017\nKinobox rating 2017\nPublic Survey by Novinky.cz 2007\nPublic Survey by Novinky.cz 2007\nKinobox Public Survey 2010\nKinobox rating 2017\n2010 public survey by Týden.cz\n2010 public survey by Týden.cz\n2010 public survey by Týden.cz\n2010 public survey by Týden.cz\n2010 public survey by Týden.cz<br>\n\"1960-1965\"\n\"1965-1967\"\n\"1968-1969\"\n2010 public survey by Týden.cz\n2010 public survey by Týden.cz\n2011 survey by Hospodářské noviny\n2007-2017 period by Kinobox rating 2017 (critics)\n\n2008-2018 period by Kinobox rating 2018 (audience)\n"}
{"id": "1616736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616736", "title": "List of reporting marks: K", "text": "List of reporting marks: K\n\n"}
{"id": "216313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216313", "title": "Majority", "text": "Majority\n\nA majority is the greater part, or more than half, of the total. It is a subset of a set consisting of more than half of the set's elements.\n\n\"Majority\" can be used to specify the voting requirement, as in a \"majority vote\". A majority vote is more than half of the votes cast.\n\nA majority can be compared to a plurality, which is a subset larger than any other subset considered. A plurality is not necessarily a majority as the largest subset considered may consist of less than half the set's elements. This can occur when there are three or more possible choices.\n\nIn British English the term majority is also alternatively used to refer to the winning margin, i.e., the number of votes separating the first-place finisher from the second-place finisher.\n\nOther related terms containing the word \"majority\" have their own meanings, which may sometimes be inconsistent in usage.\n\nIt is a situation when more than half the members in a group support a decision it is called majority\n\nA majority is the greater part, or more than half, of the total. For example, say a group consists of 20 individuals. In this case, a majority would be 11 or more individuals. For this group, having 10 or fewer individuals would not constitute a majority.\n\nIn parliamentary procedure, the term \"majority\" simply means \"more than half.\" As it relates to a vote, a majority vote is more than half of the votes cast. Abstentions or blanks are excluded in calculating a majority vote. Also, the totals do not include votes cast by someone not entitled to vote or improper multiple votes by a single member.\n\nDepending on the parliamentary authority used, there may be a difference in the total that is used to calculate a majority vote due to \"illegal votes\". Illegal votes are votes which are cast for unidentifiable or ineligible candidates or choices. In this definition, \"illegal\" refers to the choices made on the ballot and does not refer to the persons who cast the votes (i.e. the persons are eligible to vote).\n\nIn \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\" (abbreviated RONR), illegal votes are counted as votes cast, but are not credited to any candidate.\n\nIn \"The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure\" (abbreviated \"TSC\"), illegal votes are not included in the total and a majority vote is defined as being more than half of all eligible votes cast.\n\nThe issue of \"illegal votes\" does not exist when only two options are possible (e.g. \"yes\" or \"no\"), such as when a majority vote is required to adopt a proposal (motion). In this context, a majority vote is more \"yes\" votes than \"no\" votes.\n\nA majority vote is not the same as a vote of a \"majority of the members present\" or a vote of a \"majority of the entire membership\".\n\nFor example, assume that votes are cast for three people for an office: Alice, Bob, and Carol.\n\nIn Scenario 1, Alice received a majority vote. There were 20 votes cast and Alice received more than half of them.\n\nIn Scenario 2, assume all three candidates are eligible. In this case, no one received a majority vote. This example also illustrates that half the votes cast is not a majority vote.\n\nIn Scenario 3, assume that Alice and Bob are eligible candidates, but Carol is not. Using \"Robert's Rules of Order\", no one received a majority vote, which is the same as Scenario 2. In this case, the 4 votes for Carol are counted in the total, but are not credited to Carol (which precludes the possibility of an ineligible candidate being credited with receiving a majority vote).\n\nHowever, using \"The Standard Code\", Alice received a majority vote since only votes for eligible candidates are counted using this book. In this case, there are 16 votes for eligible candidates and Alice received more than half of those 16 votes.\n\nIn all three scenarios, Alice received a plurality, or the most votes among the candidates. However, only in Scenario 1 did Alice receive a majority vote using \"Robert's Rules of Order\".\n\nOther related terms containing the word \"majority\" have their own meanings, which may sometimes be inconsistent in usage.\n\nA majority may sometimes be called a \"simple majority\" to contrast with other terms using \"majority\". A \"simple majority\" may also mean a \"relative majority\", or a plurality. These two definitions would conflict when a \"simple majority\" (i.e. plurality) is not a \"majority\" (also see the disambiguation page for simple majority).\n\nAn \"absolute majority\" may mean a majority of \"all\" electors, not just those who voted. This usage would be equivalent to a \"majority of the entire membership\". However, the definition for \"absolute majority\" is not consistent, as it could also mean the same as \"majority\" or \"simple majority\". The meanings for \"absolute majority\" and \"simple majority\" would have to be determined from the context in which these terms are used.\n\nA \"supermajority\", or a \"qualified majority\", is a specified higher threshold than one half. A common use of a supermajority is a \"two-thirds vote\", which is sometimes referred to as a \"two-thirds majority\".\n\nIn parliamentary systems, an \"overall majority\" is the difference of legislators between the government and its opposition. In this context, the term \"majority\" could be also alternatively used to refer to the winning margin, i.e. the number of votes separating the first-place finisher from the second-place finisher.\n\nA \"double majority\" is a voting system which requires a majority of votes according to two separate criteria.\n\nA temporary majority exists when the positions of the members present and voting in a meeting of a deliberative assembly on a subject are not representative of the membership as a whole. Parliamentary procedure contains some provisions designed to protect against a temporary majority violating the rights of absentees. For instance, previous notice is required to rescind, repeal or annul or amend something previously adopted by a majority vote; if previous notice has not been given, a two-thirds vote is required. However, in this and many other cases, previous notice is not required if a majority of the entire membership votes in favor, because that indicates that it is clearly not a temporary majority. Another protection against a decision being made by a temporary majority is the motion to reconsider and enter on the minutes, by which two members can suspend action on a measure until it is called up at a meeting on another day.\n\n\"Majority\" could be specified with respect to the voting body.\n\nA \"majority of the entire membership\" means more than half of all the members of a body. A \"majority of the fixed membership\" means more than half of all the seats of a body. A majority of the entire membership is different from a majority of the fixed membership when there are vacancies.\n\nFor example, say a board has 12 seats. If the board has the maximum number of members, or 12 members, a majority of the entire membership and a majority of the fixed membership would be 7 members. However, if there are two vacancies (so that there are only 10 members on the board), then a majority of the entire membership would be 6 members (more than half of 10), but a majority of the fixed membership would still be 7 members.\n\nA \"majority of the members present\" means more than half of the members at the meeting. If 30 members were at a meeting, a majority of the members present would be 16. In any situation which specifies such a requirement for a vote, an abstention would have the same effect as a \"no\" vote.\n\nA vote of a \"majority of the members present\" is not the same as a \"majority vote\". When unqualified, a \"majority vote\" is taken to mean more than half of the votes cast. If 30 members were at a meeting, but only 20 votes were cast, a majority vote would be 11 votes.\n\nErroneous definitions of majority include \"50% +1\" and \"51%\".\n\nFor example, say a board has 7 members. A majority would be 4 (more than half of 7). If \"50% +1\" is used, the number calculated would be 3.5+1, and thus majority may be mistaken as 4.5, and by rounding up, 5. This confusion would exist for all odd numbers using the erroneous definition of \"50%+1\".\n\nIn another example, say a convention has 1000 delegates. Using the erroneous definition of 51% would result in a majority being mistaken as 510 instead of 501.\n\nThe same logic applies for 50.1%, 50.01%, 50.001%, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "5933567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5933567", "title": "Oligoisolating language", "text": "Oligoisolating language\n\nAn oligoisolating language (from the Greek , meaning \"few\" or \"little\") is any language using very few morphemes which tend towards an isolating structure of statements. Oligoisolation is almost entirely theoretical and would necessitate long, modifier-heavy sentences.\n\nNo natural language has oligoisolating properties; nevertheless it is present in some constructed languages, such as Toki Pona and aUI.\n\n"}
{"id": "5719656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5719656", "title": "Palm Desktop", "text": "Palm Desktop\n\nPalm Desktop is a personal information manager computer program for Microsoft Windows or Mac OS/Mac OS X, and can be used alone or in combination with a Palm OS personal digital assistant.\n\nPalm Desktop contains four main modules which correspond to the four main modules of the original Palm Pilot:\n\n\nPalm Desktop ships with all current Palm devices, and it can synchronize with a variety of devices using Palm's HotSync software. It is also available as a free download and can be used as a standalone application on personal computers. The Macintosh version has a much more sophisticated interface and many more options inherited from its history as Claris Organizer, including extensive printing capabilities for mailing labels and printed pages in various sizes of paper organizer.\n\nThe original Macintosh and Windows versions were similar, until 3Com purchased Claris Organizer (a Mac-only product) from Claris and rebranded it as Palm Desktop 2. The four modules of Claris Organizer had influenced some of the original Palm developers, who were familiar with it from earlier work on the Macintosh.\n\nPalm Desktop 4.2 for Windows was perhaps the only version of Palm Desktop which was removed from Palm's website. The company removed it because there were problems with its installer. It was replaced by Palm Desktop 4.1.4E, which is identical except for its improved installer.\n\nSynchronizing with Palm Pre: some external companies made it possible.\n\nPalm Desktop 6.2.2 for Windows Vista was released around 2008. Users considering an upgrade to Palm Desktop 6.2.2 should know that this version does not support color-coding of events in the calendar application.\n\nPalm Desktop 6.2.2 works with:\n\nThis version is not compatible with the following:\n\n\nPalm does not provide a version of the software for Linux operating system, nor do they officially support the ones developed by third parties such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "45281813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45281813", "title": "Photographic archive Gerola", "text": "Photographic archive Gerola\n\nPhotographic archive Gerola is preserved by the Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti at Palazzo Loredan in Venice.\n\nIt is known that the European powers occupied Crete at the beginning of 1897, declaring its autonomy from the Ottoman Empire. In consideration of the ambiguous situation that had come about on the big Mediterranean island and the rapid deterioration of its historical monuments (threatened by theft and reckless demolitions), in 1898 the Italian Ministry of Education decided to send an archaeological mission to Crete, directed by Federico Halbherr.\nA member and future president of the Royal Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Carlo Francesco Ferraris, suggested to the members that they finance the sending of a delegate to Crete who could support the Italian mission with the specific task of exploring and illustrating the monuments that can still be found there of Venetian rule, which extended from 1204 to 1669.\n\nIn 1899 Giuseppe Gerola , on the recommendation of Halbherr (also originally from Rovereto), was appointed by the Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti to carry out a study campaign in Crete aimed at recording the monumental and artistic signs of Venetian rule there. The idea was to reproducing the numerous monuments of Venetian rule on the island partly with plaster casts and partly with photographs .\nGerola arrived in Crete on 18 January 1900.\n\nDuring two and a half years in Crete, (1900 - 1902), Gerola collected a vast quantity of material, then published over almost 30 years (between 1905 and 1932) in four monumental volumes, which in 1933 won him the \"Mussolini Prize\", awarded by the Royal Academy of Italy.\n\nGerola wrote five reports for the Istituto, made more than 50 plaster casts (most of which are in storage at the Museo Storico Navale), took 1500 photographs, whose negatives are held at the Istituto Veneto, and made a large number of sketches, drawings and notes \n\nThe collection consists of:\n"}
{"id": "14000575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000575", "title": "RACE encoding", "text": "RACE encoding\n\nRACE encoding is a method for encoding foreign languages that use non-English characters (Chinese, Japanese, etc.) in ASCII characters for storage in domain name system servers. All names without non-English characters are unchanged. RACE codes are made up of digits, letters and dashes.\n\nRACE encoding is part of the larger scheme of the Universal Character Set specifically the ISO/IEC 10646. The assignment of characters also coincides with Unicode.\n\nToday, it is mostly abandoned in favor of punycode.\nRACE is an acronym for its main purpose. \n\n"}
{"id": "1120357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120357", "title": "Ralph de Diceto", "text": "Ralph de Diceto\n\nRalph de Diceto (d. c. 1202) was archdeacon of Middlesex, dean of St Paul's Cathedral (from c. 1180), and author of two chronicles, the \"Abbreviationes chronicorum\" and the \"Ymagines historiarum\".\n\nRalph is first mentioned in 1152, when he received the archdeaconry of Middlesex. He was probably born between 1120 and 1130; of his parentage and nationality we know nothing. The common statement that he derived his surname from Diss in Norfolk is a mere conjecture. \"Dicetum\" may equally well be a Latinized form of Dissai, Dicy, or Dizy, place names in Maine, Picardy, Burgundy, and Champagne.\n\nIn 1152 Ralph was already a master of arts and, presumably, he had studied at Paris. His reputation for learning and integrity stood high. He was regarded with respect and favor by Arnulf of Lisieux and Gilbert Foliot, two of the most eminent bishops of their time. Quite naturally, the archdeacon took in the Becket controversy the same side as his friends.\n\nBy 1164 Ralph had acquired the livings of Aynho, Northamptonshire, and Finchingfield, Essex, and served them both by vicars.\n\nAlthough Ralph's narrative is colourless and although he was one of those who showed some sympathy for Becket at the council of Northampton in 1164, his correspondence shows that he regarded the archbishop's conduct as ill-considered and that he gave advice to those whom Becket regarded as his chief enemies.\n\nRalph was selected in 1166 as the envoy of the English bishops when they protested against the excommunications launched by Becket. But, apart from this episode, which he characteristically neglects to record, he remained in the background. The natural impartiality of his intellect was accentuated by a certain timidity, which is apparent in his writings no less than in his life.\n\nAbout 1180 Ralph became dean of St Paul's. In this office, he distinguished himself by careful management of the estates, by restoring the discipline of the chapter, and by building at his own expense a deanery house. A scholar and a man of considerable erudition, he showed a strong preference for historical studies; and about the time when he was preferred to the deanery he began to collect materials for the history of his own times.\n\nRalph's friendships with Richard Fitz Nigel, who succeeded Foliot in the see of London, with William Longchamp, the chancellor of Richard I, and with Walter de Coutances, the Archbishop of Rouen, gave him excellent opportunities of collecting information.\n\nRalph's two chief works, the \"Abbreviationes chronicorum\" and the \"Ymagines historiarum\", cover the history of the world from the birth of Christ to the year 1202. The former, which ends in 1147, is a work of learning and industry, but is almost entirely based upon extant sources. The latter, beginning as a compilation from Robert de Monte and the letters of Foliot, becomes an original authority c. 1172 and a contemporary record c. 1181. In precision and fullness of detail the \"Ymagines\" are inferior to the chronicles of Roger of Hoveden.\n\nThough an annalist, Ralph is careless in his chronology. The documents which he incorporates, while often important, are selected on no principle. He has little sense of style but displays considerable insight when he ventures to discuss a political situation. For this reason, and on account of the details with which they supplement the more important chronicles of the period, the \"Ymagines\" are a valuable though a secondary source.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31450208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31450208", "title": "Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne", "text": "Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne\n\nThe Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne, the oldest provincial antiquarian society in England, was founded in 1813. It is a registered charity under English law.\n\nIt has had a long-standing interest in the archaeology of the north-east of England, particularly of Hadrian's Wall, but also covering prehistoric and medieval periods, as well as industrial archaeology. It has also maintained an interest in the traditional music of the north-east of England, and particularly the Northumbrian smallpipes. \n\nThe Society maintains several important collections. Its archaeological collection is held at the Great North Museum; its bagpipe collection, based on the collection assembled by William Cocks, is held at in Morpeth Chantry Bagpipe Museum; its collection of manuscripts is held at the Northumberland Record Office. Its journal is Archaeologia Aeliana, first published in 1822, and now published annually.\n\nIn 1855, the Society set up an Ancient Melodies Committee, with the object of collecting and preserving the characteristic songs and pipe music of the county. Its members were William Kell, John Clerevaulx Fenwick, and Robert White, together with John Collingwood Bruce a Secretary of the Society, appointed \"ex officio\". In 1857, the Committee delivered a preliminary report to the Duke of Northumberland, with the pipers William Green and James Reid both providing musical illustrations. However, they were reluctant to publish at this stage, considering that the question of distinguishing Northumbrian tunes from Scottish or southern English ones deserved more work. \n\nIn the same year Thomas Doubleday wrote an open letter to the Duke , criticising the slow progress of the Committee's work. He also made some observations on the characteristics of the unkeyed Northumbrian smallpipes, with its distinctive closed fingering, which gives the instrument a brilliant staccato sound; he also lamented the tendency of some players to attempt inappropriate music, such as waltzes, on the newer keyed instrument. \n\nThe Committee's work seems to have stalled after the deaths of White and Kell, and Fenwick's move to London, but the Society published the \"Northumbrian Minstrelsy\" in 1882, edited by Rev. John Collingwood Bruce and John Stokoe. This played a significant role in supporting the traditional instrumental music and song of the north-east of England. However, many of the smallpipe tunes they published were drastically simplified, in particular dropping the variations found in the collection of John Peacock, which they had used as a source. They also used very few of the tunes in the William Vickers manuscript, which was in their possession. Though primarily a fiddler's tunebook, it does contain many local pipe tunes. They also ignored the playing of contemporary traditional pipers such as Old Tom Clough and Thomas Todd. Despite these shortcomings, the book was very significant in the revival of wider interest in the smallpipes and its music.\n\n"}
{"id": "17054761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17054761", "title": "Swiss Hitparade", "text": "Swiss Hitparade\n\nThe Swiss Hitparade () are Switzerland's main music sales charts. The charts are a record of the highest-selling singles and albums in various genres in Switzerland.\n\nThe Swiss charts include:\n\n\nSince 2010, Hitparade's compiler Media Control has also set up Les charts, a record chart of the highest-selling singles and albums in Romandie, the Francophone region of Switzerland:\n\n\nThe charts are updated weekly on Sundays, and are posted publicly on the preceding Wednesday mornings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286892", "title": "The Interactive Encyclopedia System", "text": "The Interactive Encyclopedia System\n\nThe Interactive Encyclopedia System, or TIES, was a hypertext system developed at the University of Maryland, College Park by Ben Shneiderman in 1983. The earliest versions of TIES ran in DOS text mode, using the cursor arrow keys for navigating through information. A later version of HyperTIES for the Sun workstation was developed using the NeWS window system, with an authoring tool based on UniPress's Gosling Emacs text editor. \n\nThe TIES program has evolved into the HyperTIES commercial product, sold by the Cognetics Corporation. HyperTIES has a small feature set and has touch-screen support which makes it optimal for public displays and information kiosks. As for navigation types, only reference links are supported, which can be either text or graphics. The mouse pointer also highlights anchors when passing over them.\n\n"}
{"id": "33070409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33070409", "title": "UEFA Champions League clubs performance comparison", "text": "UEFA Champions League clubs performance comparison\n\nThe comparison of the performances of all of the clubs that participated in UEFA Champions League is below. The qualifying rounds are not taken into account.\n\n"}
{"id": "1031215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031215", "title": "UNESCO nomenclature", "text": "UNESCO nomenclature\n\nUNESCO Nomenclature (more properly UNESCO nomenclature for fields of science and technology) is a system developed by UNESCO for classification of research papers and doctoral dissertations. There are three versions of the system, offering different levels of refinement through 2-, 4-, and 6-digit codes.\n\n11 Logic \n12 Mathematics \n21 Astronomy, Astrophysics \n22 Physics \n23 Chemistry \n24 Life Sciences \n25 Earth and space science \n31 Agricultural Sciences \n32 Medical Sciences \n33 Technological Sciences \n51 Anthropology \n52 Demography \n53 Economic Sciences \n54 Geography \n55 History \n56 Juridical Science and Law \n57 Linguistics \n58 Pedagogy \n59 Political Science \n61 Psychology \n62 Sciences of Arts and Letters \n63 Sociology \n71 Ethics \n72 Philosophy \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56046957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56046957", "title": "Universal Acceptance", "text": "Universal Acceptance\n\nUniversal Acceptance (UA) is the principle that every top-level domain (TLD) should function within all applications regardless of script, number of characters, or how new it is. Historically, there were a limited number of TLDs available in strings of two or three Latin-script characters. This began to change in 2000, when ICANN introduced new generic top-level domains (gTLDs) that were longer than three characters, such as .info and .museum. Then in 2010, the first Internationalised Domain Names (IDNs), or domain names using non-Latin characters, were introduced. Finally, in 2013 ICANN’s New gTLD Program introuced over 1,000 new gTLDs. One issue surrounding the expanision of the Domain Name System’s Root Zone has been the ability of Internet-based applications and systems to handle these domain names. For the principle of Universal Acceptance to be realized, all valid domain names and email addresses must be accepted, validated, stored, processed and displayed correctly and consistently by all Internet-enabled applications, devices and systems.\n\nIn February 2015, the Universal Acceptance Steering Group (UASG) was formed by the ICANN community to facilitate the adoption of Universal Acceptance principles by software developers and website owners.\n\nOne of the primary ways of interfacing with the Internet is through web browsers. For this reason, the UASG commissioned a report on the performance of major browsers in the treatment and acceptance of 17 different domain names registered for the purpose of providing test cases for UA readiness.\n\nThe study found that desktop browsers generally performed well, but only Internet Explorer performed as expected. Common problems among the other browsers included the failure to properly render the URLs in the tab title bar and failing to treat an ideographic full stop as a delimiter. On mobile platforms, the results of the tests were much more varied, with the same browsers performing differently based on the operating system, with one of the most common problems being the proper display of Unicode URLs.\n\nThe study concluded that developers are making progress in making browsers UA Ready, but there is more work to on every browser except Internet Explorer, a browser that has been discontinued.\n\nInternationalized email address is also part of Universal Acceptance Steering Group , where Email Service providers are motivated to start providing email address for IDNs and also engage them to solve issues related to interoperability with legacy systems. Downgrading is not recommended using punycode however providing ASCII Alias email address with EAI is the recommended practice. Aliasing as downgrading technique is being practiced by BSNL, which used XgenPlus email solution. \n"}
{"id": "5026733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5026733", "title": "William Poundstone", "text": "William Poundstone\n\nWilliam Poundstone is an American author, columnist, and skeptic. He has written a number of books including the \"Big Secrets\" series and a biography of Carl Sagan. He is a cousin of comedian Paula Poundstone.\n\nAn enthusiast of Harry Stephen Keeler, he maintains the \nKeeler homepage and contributed to the anthology \"A to Izzard: A Harry Stephen Keeler Companion\" (2002).\n\nPoundstone attended MIT and studied physics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14747890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14747890", "title": "Woody Guthrie Foundation", "text": "Woody Guthrie Foundation\n\nThe Woody Guthrie Foundation, founded in 1972, is a non-profit organization which formerly served as administrator and caretaker of the Woody Guthrie Archives. Dedicated to the preservation and dissemination of information about Guthrie's vast cultural legacy, the Woody Guthrie Archives houses the largest collection of Woody Guthrie material in the world. The archives opened to the public in New York City in 1996. The archives were subsequently moved to the new Woody Guthrie Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma in 2013, after being acquired by the Tulsa-based George Kaiser Foundation. The Center officially opened on April 27, 2013.\n\nThe Woody Guthrie Center features, in addition to the archives, a museum focused on the life and the influence of Guthrie through his music, writings, art, and political activities. The museum is open to the public; the archives is open only to researchers by appointment. The archives contains thousands of items related to Guthrie, including original artwork, books, correspondence, lyrics, manuscripts, media, notebooks, periodicals, personal papers, photographs, scrapbooks, and other special collections.\n\nOn September 6, 2007, Woody Guthrie Publications, in cooperation with the Woody Guthrie Foundation released \"The Live Wire: Woody Guthrie in Performance 1949\", accompanied by a 72-page book describing the performance and the project. Paul Braverman, a student at Rutgers University in 1949, made the recordings himself using a small wire recorder at a Guthrie concert in Newark, New Jersey. On February 10, 2008, the release was the recipient of a Grammy Award in the category Best Historical Album.\n\nThe Foundation was previously based in Brooklyn, New York and directed by Woody Guthrie's daughter Nora Guthrie. Nora Guthrie opened up the Foundation's archives to musicians of many types, who she encouraged to write and record music for the many hundreds of Woody Guthrie's written lyrics. Following Woody Guthrie's death, many of these lyrics were without surviving melodies, as Woody did not write musical notation and never recorded (or taught anyone) the majority of his original compositions.\n\nIn 1995, Nora Guthrie had invited alternative folk-rocker Billy Bragg to select some lyrics from the archive to be set to music and then to be recorded commercially. Bragg then invited the alt-country band Wilco to help complete the project. Wilco and Bragg released 2 acclaimed \"Mermaid Avenue\" albums in 1998 and 2000, using Woody's lyrics set to their own musical compositions. Also, a film documentary Man in the Sand. was released documenting not only the making of the Mermaid Avenue albums but also Bragg's exploration of Woody Guthrie's origins in hometown Okemah, Oklahoma. Many other collaborative projects by others have followed.\n\nFollowing is a comprehensive list of commercial recordings containing songs which have lyrics written by Woody Guthrie and music written by others:\n\n\nOne of the lyrics which was worked several times by Billy Bragg, \"All You Fascists\", has subsequently surfaced in a recording of a 1944 radio program \"The Martins and the McCoys\". Guthrie appeared in the program with other folk singers and can be heard singing \"All of You Fascists Bound to Lose, set to his original melody, which is of course substantially different from the melodies Bragg has devised for it.\n\nGiven the quantity of these posthumous collaborations, it was perhaps inevitable that there would be some lyrics set to more than one melody. For instance, track 3 on the Wasserman album (\"Ease My Revolutionary Mind\") uses the same set of lyrics as track 3 on the Farrar album (as well as track 3 on the Autumn Defense album). Track 2 on the Brooke album (\"You'd Oughta Be Satisfied Now\") uses the same set of lyrics as track 5 on the third volume of \"Mermaid Avenue\". The Woody Guthrie Publications website lists Jonatha Brooke's version of \"You'd Oughta Be Satisfied Now\" as a \"derivative work\".\n\n"}
