{"id": "56435452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56435452", "title": "1788-L", "text": "1788-L\n\n1788-L is an electronic music producer. They rose to fame in 2018 with a remix of Virtual Self's \"Particle Arts\" uploaded onto their SoundCloud account. Other releases following this include \"Multiverse\" (with 4AM) and a remix of Daft Punk's \"Rinzler\".\n\nOn 26 January 2018, 1788-L uploaded their debut release, \"Replica\", on SoundCloud. A digital download release of they song was issued on 2 February 2018. On 9 February 2018 they released a remix of \"Particle Arts\" by Virtual Self. On 2 March 2018, a remix of Daft Punk's \"Rinzler\" (from \"\") was released, and premiered on Dancing Astronaut. On 30 March 2018, a remix of \"Radioactivity\" by Kraftwerk was released. His debut extended play, \"Sentience\", which comprises four tracks was released on August 24, 2018 through Zeds Dead' label, Deadbeats.\n\n1788-L performed their first live show on July 7, 2018 in Los Angeles, California.\n"}
{"id": "1926213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926213", "title": "A-1 (wrestler)", "text": "A-1 (wrestler)\n\nAlastair Charles Ralphs (born May 22, 1977) is a Canadian professional wrestler and former bodybuilder, better known by his ring name, A-1 (alternatively spelled A1 or A-One). He is best known for his appearances with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) from 2004 to 2007 as part of Team Canada.\n\nRalphs was born in Placentia Bay, Newfoundland, and relocated to Dunnville, Ontario at the age of five. He later moved to Windsor, Ontario to attend the University of Windsor.\n\nAlastair Ralphs was trained by Scott D'Amore in the Can-Am Wrestling School, and debuted in D'Amore's Border City Wrestling promotion in 2001. After spending three years as an undercard talent, Ralphs became A-1, a cocky, arrogant heel, forming an alliance with Johnny Swinger. He defeated D'Lo Brown for the BCW Heavyweight Championship on December 12, 2004, in Belleville, Michigan at \"A Night of Appreciation for Sabu\".\n\nOn January 23, 2005, at New Year's Revolution, Ralphs interrupted the Hall of Fame induction ceremony, complaining that he was being overshadowed by older wrestlers. Scott D'Amore responded with a jibe aimed at Ralph's previous career as a bodybuilder, leading to a brawl between Ralphs and D'Amore. Following a distraction from Jade, A-1 was able to powerbomb D'Amore through a table. Ralphs went on to retain the heavyweight title in a match with Abyss, using Abyss's own chain to knock him unconscious.\n\nRalphs lost the BCW Heavyweight Championship to Bobby Roode on July 22, 2005. In the course of his reign as champion he faced well-known veterans such as Jim Neidhart and King Kong Bundy.\n\nOn July 16, 2004, Ralphs appeared in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, losing to Sabu. He reappeared on March 13, 2005 as a member of Team Canada, replacing the injured Johnny Devine at Destination X 2005 and teaming with Bobby Roode, Eric Young and Petey Williams to face Chris Harris, James Storm, B.G. James and Konnan. He wrestled on TNA Impact! throughout April and May 2005, teaming with other members of Team Canada or accompanying them to the ring. At Hard Justice on May 15, Ralphs took part in the Gauntlet for the Gold. He entered at number six and was eliminated by The Outlaw and B.G. James. On the May 11, 2006, episode of \"TNA Impact!\", Larry Zbyszko asked Team Canada coach Scott D'Amore for assistance in his feud with Raven. D'Amore eventually agreed to help Zbyszko rid TNA of Raven, and nominated A-1 to face Raven in a match at TNA Sacrifice 2006 in May 2006, a match that A-1 lost. On the June 29, 2006, episode of \"Impact!\", TNA Management Director Jim Cornette disbanded Team Canada.\n\nA-1 soon began wrestling sporadically, facing Ron Killings in the pre-show of the Hard Justice pay-per-view and against Eric Young at the No Surrender pay-per-view, losing both times. He also took part in the Kevin Nash Open Invitational X-Division Gauntlet Battle Royal at Bound For Glory, despite not being a part of the X-Division. He was eliminated by both Maverick Matt and Kazarian.\n\nA-1 was released by TNA in February 2007.\n\nSince leaving TNA, A-1 has wrestled on the independent circuit in Canada and the United States.\n\nAt Impact One Night Only: Canadian Clash in February 2018, A-1 returned to Impact Wrestling for the first time in over 11 years, unsuccessfully challenging Eli Drake for the Impact Global Championship. He returned to Impact Wrestling once again at the following month's One Night Only: March Breakdown PPV, where he teamed with Allie in a victory over Braxton Sutter and KC Spinelli. He is also currently a member of the Border City Wrestling roster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45307251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45307251", "title": "Adam de Rodebroke", "text": "Adam de Rodebroke\n\nAdam de Rodebroke was a Priest in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nWas presented the post of Vicar of St. Mary the Virgin, Aylesbury in December 1312 by Richard de Havering, Prebendary of Aylesbury. He eventually resigned from the post.\n\n"}
{"id": "6728392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6728392", "title": "Amir-Hossein Khozeimé Alam", "text": "Amir-Hossein Khozeimé Alam\n\nAmir Hossein Khozeimé-Alam (c. 1919 – 2002) was the eldest son of Amir Ma'soum Khan Khozeiméh (Hessamodolleh III), the last ruling Amir of Qaenat and Sistan, in what is now south-eastern Iran. He was a cousin of Amir Asadollah Alam and was married to Fatemé Alam, the eldest daughter of Amir Ebrahim Alam (Shokat ol-molk II), who was also his great-uncle. \n\nSubsequently, he became Under-secretary for Agriculture in Tehran. Hussein and Fateme had two sons and two daughters, of whom the eldest is married to the British politician Lord Temple-Morris. After the Iranian revolution, Khozeimé-Alam fled into exile in London where he was a leading figure in the Iranian community.\n"}
{"id": "4340010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4340010", "title": "Angier Buchanan Duke", "text": "Angier Buchanan Duke\n\nAngier Buchanan Duke (1884–1923) was a trustee of Duke University from 1914–1923, as well as vice president and president of its Alumni Association.\n\nDuke was the son of Benjamin Newton Duke and Sarah Pearson Angier. He was the brother of Mary Lillian Duke, and first cousin to the flamboyant heiress Doris Duke (1912–1993). He married Cordelia Drexel Biddle (daughter of bank heir Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle, Sr.) with whom he had two children, Angier Biddle Duke (1915–1995) and Anthony Drexel Duke (1918-2014). In an accident in 1905 he had lost a hand and part of his arm. In 1923 he drowned when a boat overturned and he was unable to get back into the boat because of his missing hand. John Davidson portrayed him in the 1967 film, \"The Happiest Millionaire\".\n"}
{"id": "46191556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46191556", "title": "Animal attack", "text": "Animal attack\n\nAnimal attacks are a cause of human injuries and fatalities worldwide. Up to five million people in the U.S. are attacked by cats and dogs each year. The frequency of animal attacks varies with geographical location. In the United States, a person is more likely to be killed by a domesticated dog than they are to die from being hit by lightning according to the National Safety Council.\n\nAnimal attacks have been identified as a major public health problem. \"Unprovoked attacks occur when the animal approaches and attacks a person(s) who is the principle attractant, for example, predation on humans...\" In 1997, it was estimated that up to 2 million animal bites occur each year in the United States. Injuries caused by animal attacks result in thousands of fatalities worldwide every year. All causes of death are reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention each year. Medical injury codes are used to identify specific cases. The World Health Organization uses identical coding, though it is unclear whether all countries keep track of fatalities caused by animals. Though animals, excluding some tigers, do not regularly hunt humans, there is concern that these incidents are \" ...bad for many species 'public image'.” Though some pets will feed on people if they die, are sick or unconscious, this is not characterized as an attack.\n\nBite injuries are often the consequences of an animal attack, including those instances when a human attacks another human. Human bites are the third most frequent type of bite after dog and cat bites. Dog bites are commonplace, with children the most commonly bitten and the face the most common target. In 1936, amputation was required in one third of cases in which treatment was delayed for 24 hours or longer.\n\nAnimal bites are the most common form of injury from animal attacks. The US estimated annual count of animal bites is 250,000 human bites, 1 to 2 million dog bites, 400,000 cat bites, and 45,000 bites from snakes. Bites from skunks, horses, squirrels, rats, rabbits, pigs, and monkeys may be up to 1 percent of bite injuries. Pet ferrets attacks that were unprovoked have caused serious facial injuries. Non-domesticated animals, though assumed to be more common especially as a cause of rabies infection, make up less than one percent of reported bite wounds. When a person is bitten, it is more likely to occur on the right arm, most likely due to defensive reactions when the victims uses her or his dominant arm. Estimates are that three quarters of bites are located on the arms or legs of humans. Bites to the face of humans constitutes only 10 percent of the total. Two thirds of bite injuries in humans are suffered by children aged ten and younger. The subsequent treatment for those who have been attacked (if they survive) depends on the injuries. Though trauma may be addressed first, subsequent infections are also treated with appropriate antibiotics.\n\nUp to three fourths of dog bites happen to those younger than 20 years-old. In the United States, the costs associated with dog bites are estimated to be more than $1 billion annually. The age groups that suffer most from dog bites are children 5 to 9 years-old. Often, bites go unreported and no medical treatment given. As many as one percent of pediatric emergency room visits are for treatment for animal bites. This is more frequent during the summer months. Up to five percent of children receiving emergency care for dog bites are then admitted to the hospital. Bites typically occur in the late afternoon and early evening. Girls are bitten more frequently by cats than they are by dogs. Boys are bitten by dogs two times more often than girls.\n\nInjuries resulting from encounters with animals occur with sufficient frequency to require the use of medical codes by clinicians and insurance companies to document such encounters. The ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Codes are used for the purpose of clearly identifying diseases, their causes, injuries in the United States. Clinicians use these codes to quantify the medical condition and its causes and to bill insurance companies for the treatment required as a result of encounters with animals.\n\nIn the early 1990s one African village suffered at least one human death and more than one attack from buffalo in the area of their village. The attacks stopped after a fence was built around the village to protect it.\n\nBees, wasps, scorpions and other stinging or biting arthropods cause human fatalities but these are not as often characterized as 'attacks'. It may be difficult to characterize some of these encounters as offensive or defensive. An arthropod 'attack' instead of causing tissue trauma such as cutting, lacerating, crushing or the severing of body parts may instead cause a physiological reaction that results in human death. These effects are toxic effects and allergic effects.\n\nListing deaths due stings and allergic reactions from arthropods is not practical but some of the more unusual cases include:\n\nIn 2006 a 68-year-old South Carolina woman died after being attacked by fire ants while gardening. Residents in nursing homes have been attacked.\n\nJack jumper ants have caused numerous fatalities. In 1931 two adults and an infant were killed in New South Wales allegedly from jack jumper ants or \"Myrmecia pyriformis\". In 1963 another caused by an ant attack documented in Tasmania. Identification of venom allergens began in the early 1990s. all in Tasmania and all due to anaphylactic shock. The fatality rate was one person every four years from the sting.\n\nAfricanized honey bees are known to attack people unprovoked.\n\nAsian giant hornets in China have killed at least 42 people and injured 1,675 more.\n\nAlthough about 2000 species exist, only about 25-40 species can deliver enough venom to cause serious or lethal damage to humans. One of the more venomous or potentially dangerous species, especially for infants, young children, and the elderly in the United States is Centruroides exilicauda or bark scorpion. Most scorpion stings vary from small swelling to medically significant lesions in severity, with only a few able to cause severe allergic, neurotic or necrotic reactions. Only two species of scorpions can inflict stings which result in death of normal healthy humans: the Israeli deathstalker (Leiurus quinquestriatus) and the Brazilian yellow scorpion (Tityus serrulatus).\n\n\n162 bear attacks were reported in the United States between 1900 and 1985. This is about two reported bear attacks per year. During the 1990s bears killed around three people a year in the U.S. and Canada. A black bear killed three teenagers in Algonquin Park in Canada. The majority of attacks happened in national parks. 1028 incidences of black bears acting aggressively toward people, 107 of which resulted in injury, were recorded from 1964 to 1976 in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. After a 20-year ban, Florida is considering legislation that may permit bear hunting to stop the expanding population of black bears that are a menace in suburban neighborhoods.\n\nAsian black bears are comparatively more aggressive toward humans than those of Europe. In India, attacks have increased. These occur near the Himalayan region. Here, attacks increased from 10 in 1988–89 to 21 in 1991–92. Recent bear attacks on humans have been reported from Junbesi National Park and Langtang National Park in Nepal, and occurred in villages as well as in the surrounding forest. Li Guoxing, the second person in history to have received a facial transplant, was a victim of a black bear attack.\n\nBetween 1979–1989 nine people were killed in Japan . In 2009 one bear attacked a group of tourists in central Japan.\n\nBrown bears are considered unpredictable. In 2007, a fatality occurred in Finland from an attack by a European brown bear. Typically one or two people are attacked rather than groups, with no attacks being recorded against groups of more than seven.\n\nPolar bear attacks on humans are extremely rare, as humans generally do not live near their habitats. Polar bear attacks can happen in captivity like Binky at the Alaska Zoo when he mauled an Australian tourist Kathryn Warburton when she jumped over two safety rails to get a close-up photograph of Binky in his enclosure but stuck his head through the bars and grabbed her and she suffered a broken leg and bite wounds. Six weeks later, Binky was involved in another mauling. Drunken local teenagers approached the bear's enclosure, apparently hoping to swim in its pool, and one 19-year-old was hospitalized with leg lacerations after he was mauled.\n\nWhen a cassowary attacks, it will charge and kick and even jump on top of the person. Cassowaries are described as being able to use their legs to kick in a forward and downward motion. They are also able to head-butt and charge. The most common injuries that are sustained by those who are attacked consist of puncture wounds, lacerations and bone fractures. The severity of the injuries are increased if someone is crouching or lying flat. The large birds will attack dogs and cats. Dogs attack cassowaries.\n\nIn 1997, a woman in South Africa was killed while walking through a field on an ostrich farm.\n\nAnthony Hensley, 37, was kayaking in Illinois when two swans managed to flip his boat, drowning him in April 2012.\n\nSome evidence supports the contention that the African crowned eagle occasionally views human children as prey, with a witness account of one attack (in which the victim, a seven-year-old boy, survived and the eagle was killed), and the discovery of part of a human child skull in a nest.\n\nBulls attack and kill people on farms.\n\nDuring 2010, a man and woman were walking through a field where a bull was pastured. The man was killed.\n\nOn November 4, 2012, a two-year-old boy lost his life when African painted dogs mauled him after he fell into their exhibit at the Pittsburgh Zoo. Zookeepers immediately rushed to that area, trying to fire darts in order to frighten the dogs away, and police shot one particularly aggressive dog, which had refused to retreat from the exhibit when called. The other dogs were quarantined for thirty days but there were not plans to put them down. The dogs were sent to other North American zoos.\n\nCoyote attacks are uncommon and usually cause little harm but have become more frequent. This is especially true in California. Beginning 30 years prior to 2006 one hundred sixty took place mostly in the Los Angeles County region. 41 attacks occurred during 1988–1997, 48 attacks were verified from 1998 through 2003. The majority of these incidents occurred in Southern California. Some coyotes chase joggers and bicyclists, confront people walking their dogs, and stalk small children. The coyote-wolf hybrids that roam Eastern Canada and parts of the Northeastern United States are known as eastern coyotes and coywolves.\n\n\nIn 1980, Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton was tried and convicted for the murder of her young daughter, though Creighton claimed that dingos had taken her. Evidence later proved her account was true.\n\nLarger dogs are responsible for most animal bites overall and are the most common type of dog that bites with a fatal outcome. In the United States, there are 10 to 20 fatal human attacks annually. Not one breed is responsible for most of the bites, but at least 25 breeds of dogs were identified in the 238 fatalities in the past 25 years.\n\nMost of the time, the victim is known by the owner of the dog. On fewer occasions, the bites suffered by the victim are from their own dog. Only about ten percent of dog bites are from strays. The National Health and Human Services agency in the United States reports that 9.9% of deaths caused by animals were from dogs.\n\nUnprovoked fox attacks are occasionally reported. Victims were often children, and it can happen if there were gaps in homes through which foxes could pass.\n\n\nAlligators are capable of killing humans but fatal attacks are fairly rare and uncommon. Mistaken identity leading to an attack is always possible, especially in or near cloudy waters. American alligators are often less aggressive towards humans than larger crocodile species, a few of which (mainly the Nile and Saltwater crocodiles) may prey on humans with some regularity. American alligator bites are serious injuries due to the reptile's sheer bite force and risk of infection. Even with medical treatment, an American alligator bite may still result in a fatal infection. As human populations increase, and as they build houses in low-lying areas or fish or hunt near water, incidents are inevitable where American alligators intrude, or at least appear to intrude, on human life. Since 1948, 257 documented attacks on humans in Florida (about five incidents per year) have been reported, of which an estimated 23 resulted in death. Only nine fatal attacks occurred in the United States throughout the 1970s–1990s, but American alligators killed 12 people between 2001 and 2007. In May 2006, American alligators killed three Floridians in less than a week. There have been at least 28 fatal attacks by American alligators in the United States since 1970. In contrast, alligator attacks are rare because they target prey animals that are smaller than adult humans. Their normal prey includes fish, birds, other reptiles and small mammals. Unfortunately, children are about the same size as these animals, so they can become targets.\n\nCrocodile attacks often result in fatalities. Estimates of deaths due to attacks by the Nile crocodile is estimated to be hundreds and possibly thousands yearly. Attacks by Nile crocodiles range from 275 to 745 per year. 63% of these are fatal. Only 30 attacks have been recorded per year by saltwater crocodiles, of which 50% are fatal. Fatal attacks are typically made by very large crocodiles. The Nile crocodile is considered to be the most prolific predator of humans among wild animals at this time. Crocodile tracking technology is currently under development that would prevent attacks.\n\nWhen a deer attacks, they use their antlers and hooves. They can cause severe injuries and fatalities. People are more likely to die from a deer attack than they are from a wolf attack.\n\n\nMoose attacks occur with some frequency and they have been found to attack more often than grizzly bears.\n\n\n\nWild elephants have attacked, harmed and killed people. Jacky Boxberger, an Olympic athlete, Bùi Thị Xuân, a Vietnamese woman general and Allen Campbell, a professional elephant trainer were attacked and killed by Asian elephants. Elephants have attacked people in villages in India.\n\nIn a very rare case, according to The Huffington Post, a 7-year old girl died on Tuesday, July 27, 2016, after an elephant at the Rabat-Temara Zoo accidentally threw a stone at her.\n\nIan Gibson, 55 and a pro big game hunter, was charged by an elephant he had been tracking and trampled to death.\n\nA boy vacationing in South Africa was bitten by a cheetah.\n\nIn 2005, a British man was attacked by what he described as a black panther.\n\nThough very rare, cats have attacked and killed people. Cat bites may be under reported. Cats also can attack other animals and cause significant injuries.\n\nA jaguar at the John Ball Zoo fatally mauled a pregnant employee on December 9, 1985. A jaguar at the Denver Zoo killed a young female employee on February 24, 2007. A jaguar in Belize killed a young American man on October 25, 2010. It escaped after a tree fell on its cage during Hurricane Richard one night earlier.\n\nLeopard attacks remain a danger in some areas. One leopard in India killed over 200 people. Leopard attacks usually occur at night.\n\nLions enter areas occupied by humans. Lion attacks in Tanzania increased from 1990 to 2005. At least 563 villagers were attacked and many devoured over this period. Researchers argue that conservation policy contributes directly to human deaths. Lions have taken people from the center of large villages. Estimates stand at 550–700 people attacked by lions every year.\n\nTigers kill more people than any other big cat, and tigers have been responsible for more human deaths through direct attack than any other wild mammal. One hundred and twenty-nine people were killed by tigers in the Sundarbans from 1969–71.\nThe Sundarbans are occupied by 600 Bengal tigers who before modern times used to \"regularly kill fifty or sixty people a year\". Attacks continue to increase.\n\n\nIn 2016, Piranha attacked a group of swimmers in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nA Goonch fish in India was thought to have killed many people \n\nThe hippopotamus is often cited as the most dangerous large animal in the world, killing an estimated 500 people a year in Africa. However, there are no academic or formal studies providing support for this claim, and its continued persistence seems to be dependent on the repetition of a well established folk narrative as opposed to actual reports or numbers.\n\nAttacks on humans by spotted hyenas are underreported. A pair of hyenas were responsible for killing 27 people in Mulanje, Malawi in 1962. In 1910 spotted hyenas were observed to kill sufferers of African sleeping sickness as they slept outside in camps.\n\nA man was bitten and subsequently lost his big toe to a Komodo dragon. Attacks occur infrequently in Indonesia.\n\nSome studies cite encroachment as the cause of attacks by primates resulting in injuries and deaths to humans. Many African states offer government sponsored insurance programs that will dispense payments to those who are attacked (unprovoked) or killed by large primates. In some instances \"...local people feel that the needs or values of wildlife are given priority over their own needs...\" Gorillas often raid the crops of some villages. Villagers are sometimes hurt or killed defending their crops against gorillas. Women and children are more likely to be attacked by a raiding gorilla than men. Domestic animals are also attacked by gorillas.\n\nGenerally, chimpanzees are aggressive in the wild. Males are more aggressive than females. Male chimpanzees will attack other chimpanzees sometimes engaging in 'warfare'. They are capable of causing serious injury and death.\n\nIn 2009 in Stamford, Connecticut, Travis attacked a 55-year-old woman named Charla Nash, ripping her face and hands off.\n\nIn 2012, villagers living near Virunga National Park were attacked by common chimpanzees. One girl was killed.\n\nA six-week-old infant was killed in her home while sleeping by a macaque that entered through the window. The animal had escaped from a zoo.\n\nIn May 2003, Mark Crozier and his brother Sean were on a game walk with a group of safari hikers led by two armed rangers when a black rhinoceros attacked them during their walk at Hluhluwe–Imfolozi Park in South Africa. Two game rangers fired warning shots at the rhinoceros while the tourists hid in a dense bush. Both of the Crozier brothers had severe wounds.\n\nOn April 15, 2004, a white rhinoceros at Kruger National Park charged and lifted up safari guide Elias Chauke with its horn before he was able to pull his trigger at it. His colleague, Dumisani Zwane, hit the rhinoceros as it passed him, making it drop Chauke. Meanwhile another black rhinoceros charged at the group of five tourists, injuring one man, Botha from Vereeniging, in the buttocks and the back.\n\nA black rhinoceros gored a female wildlife researcher in a holding pen at Hluhluwe–Imfolozi on September 21, 2004. A month later, another black rhinoceros struck a young male Zululand contractor in the right side of the chest and he fell screaming to the ground to attract the attention of his colleagues.\n\nSeal and sea lion attacks are rare on humans, but coming to close to them can be very unsafe. Many seals and sea lions attack to protect themselves or their young because they feel threatened even if the humans around them have no intention of harming them. Human presence and human recreational activities can cause sea lions to engage in violent and aggressive actions. When humans come closer than 15 meters of a sea lion, the sea lions' vigilance increases because of the disturbance of humans. These disturbances can potentially cause sea lions to have psychological stress responses that cause the sea lions to retreat, sometimes even abandon their locations, and decreases the amount of time sea lions spend hauling out.\n\n\nOut of the four hundred eighty shark species, only three are responsible for the majority of fatal, unprovoked attacks on humans: the great white, tiger and bull. The oceanic whitetip has likely killed castaways, not recorded in the statistics.\n\nThe World Health Organization has determined that up to five million people get bitten by snakes yearly with 94,000 to 125,000 deaths. Other consequences include infection, tetanus, scarring, psychoses, and 400,000 amputations. Other severe health consequences occur such as infection, tetanus, scarring, contractures, and psychological sequelae. Snake bites occur most frequently in South-East Asia and Africa among those who live in less affluent areas, farming communities. The National Health and Human Services agency in the United States reported 66 fatalities between 1979 and 1990 from snakes.\n\nSpecies of python have attacked people and caused human fatalities. These include:\n\nAn African rock python allegedly killed two boys in Campbellton, New Brunswick in 2013.\n\nSquirrels will attack unprovoked, sometimes even in packs.\n\n\nStingray injuries are caused by the venomous tail spines, stingers or dermal denticles of rays in the order Myliobatiformes, most significantly those belonging to the families Dasyatidae, Urotrygonidae, Urolophidae, and Potamotrygonidae. Stingrays generally do not attack aggressively or even actively defend themselves. When threatened, their primary reaction is to swim away. However, when attacked by predators or stepped on, the stinger in their tail is whipped up. This is normally ineffective against sharks, their main predator.\n\nDepending on the size of the stingray, humans are usually stung in the lower limb region. Stings usually occur when swimmers or divers accidentally step on a stingray, but a human is less likely to be stung by simply brushing against the stinger. Surfers and those who enter waters with large populations of stingrays have learned to slide their feet through the sand rather than taking steps, as the rays detect this and swim away.\n\nThere are reports of stingers breaking off in wounds, but this may be rare. This would not be fatal to the stingray as it will be regrown at a rate of about per month (though with significant variations depending on the size of the stingray and the exact species). Contact with the stinger causes local trauma (from the cut itself), pain, swelling, and muscle cramps from the venom, and possible later infection from bacteria or fungi. Immediate injuries to humans include, but are not limited to: poisoning, punctures, severed arteries and veins, and occasionally death. Fatal stings are very rare, but can happen, infamously including Steve Irwin. In Irwin's case, the stinger penetrated his thoracic wall, causing massive trauma.\n\nIn Western cultures, killer whales were historically feared as dangerous, savage predators. The first written description of a killer whale was given by Pliny the Elder \"circa\" AD 70, who wrote, \"Orcas (the appearance of which no image can express, other than an enormous mass of savage flesh with teeth) are the enemy of [other whales]... they charge and pierce them like warships ramming.\"\n\nOf the very few confirmed attacks on humans by wild killer whales, none have been fatal. In one instance, killer whales tried to tip ice floes on which a dog team and photographer of the Terra Nova Expedition were standing. The sled dogs' barking is speculated to have sounded enough like seal calls to trigger the killer whale's hunting curiosity. In the 1970s, a surfer in California was bitten, and in 2005, a boy in Alaska who was splashing in a region frequented by harbor seals was bumped by a killer whale that apparently misidentified him as prey. Unlike wild killer whales, captive killer whales are reported to have made nearly two dozen attacks on humans since the 1970s, some of which have been fatal.\n\nCompetition with fishermen also led to killer whales being regarded as pests. In the waters of the Pacific Northwest and Iceland, the shooting of killer whales was accepted and even encouraged by governments. As an indication of the intensity of shooting that occurred until fairly recently, about 25% of the killer whales captured in Puget Sound for aquarium through 1970 bore bullet scars. The U.S. Navy claimed to have deliberately killed hundreds of killer whales in Icelandic waters in 1956 with machine-guns, rockets, and depth charges.\n\nWild orcas are not considered a real threat to humans, as there is no record of a wild Orca outright attacking or harming a human. In captivity, however, there have been several non-fatal and fatal attacks on humans since the 1970s. Experts are divided as to whether the injuries and deaths were accidental or deliberate attempts to cause harm.\n\nThere are a few recorded cases of wild orcas threatening humans. However, there have been no fatalities. \n\nIn 2014, a wild boar gored a woman several times while she was walking her dogs. After the initial attack, the woman mistakenly believed the boar had left, and attempted to stand. But the boar attacked again.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47503243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47503243", "title": "Auguste Caby", "text": "Auguste Caby\n\nAuguste Caby was a French freestyle swimmer. He competed in the 1500 m event at the 1912 Summer Olympics, but failed to reach the final.\n"}
{"id": "37399745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37399745", "title": "Bakri balloon", "text": "Bakri balloon\n\nThe Bakri Balloon is a medical device invented by Younes Bakri, an obstetrician-gynecologist, and manufactured by Cook Medical.\n\nThe obstetrical balloon is a 24 French, 54 cm-long, silicone catheter with a filling capacity of 500 mL. The device is used for the temporary control and reduction of postpartum hemorrhage (PPH).\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, around 100,000 maternal deaths occur every year from PPH and is the leading cause of maternal mortality in the developed world.\n\nThe Bakri Balloon is a silicone, obstetrical balloon specifically designed to treat postpartum hemorrhage (PPH). The device is used for the \"temporary control or reduction of postpartum hemorrhage when conservative management of uterine bleeding is warranted.\" \n\nOne study in Finland involving 50 patients recorded an overall success rate of 86% when using the Bakri Balloon in managing PPH. A German study involving 20 patients cited an overall success rate of 90% when the balloon is used in combination with B-Lynch sutures.\n\nBoth the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) and the International Confederation of Midwives (ICM) have approved the balloon as one of the primary support tools in treating PPH.\n\n"}
{"id": "2850602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2850602", "title": "Brain (comics)", "text": "Brain (comics)\n\nThe Brain is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics commonly as a frequent enemy of the Doom Patrol. He is a French mastermind and criminal genius.\n\nBrain first appeared in \"Doom Patrol\" #86 and was created by Arnold Drake and Bruno Premiani. Drake later commented, \"I used that same concept in a Jerry Lewis comic book, and in a Bob Hope comic I had a totem pole that talked to him. Often times, I wrote the same storylines for the comedy stuff that I wrote for the serious stuff. I just turned it on its head.\"\n\nAs a scientist, the Brain performs experiments on animals to raise their intelligence. One of these is on a gorilla, who he names Monsieur Mallah and educates for almost a decade before making him his personal assistant. His colleague, Niles Caulder grows jealous of his work and arranges for the Brain to get caught in an explosion, which destroys his body. Only the brain survives, which Caulder plans on putting into a robotic body. Mallah rescues the Brain, transferring him to a computer network that keeps him functioning.\n\nThe Brain and Mallah form the Brotherhood of Evil in hopes of conquering the world and getting revenge on Caulder. Caulder, now known as the \"Chief\", through a series of other accidents that he manipulated, forms the Doom Patrol. (Caulder's involvement in the events which transformed the Doom Patrol, and the Brain, was a retcon decades after the creation of the Doom Patrol and the Brain; originally the incidents were genuine accidents.) The Brain, Mallah, and their Brotherhood's criminal activities also pit them against the Teen Titans. The Brotherhood go against the newly formed Justice League, with the Brain using a genetic splicer to take the Flash's legs, Green Lantern's ring, Black Canary's vocal chords, and the Martian Manhunter's eyes. The Brain is defeated by the League and the Doom Patrol, the League using cybernetic implants created by Niles Caulder to compensate for their lost powers. Aquaman is thrown to the Brain, overpowers his control of the ring, and separates the Brain from his makeshift body.\n\nDuring Grant Morrison's Doom Patrol run, Mallah places the Brain in Robotman's new body (Robotman's brain had been removed from it due to it malfunctioning). In his new body, the Brain confesses to Mallah he is in love with him. When Mallah reveals he feels the same way, the two kiss. However, Robotman's body, having developed sentience and vowed never to be enslaved by a brain again, triggers a self-destruct mechanism, and explodes as they kiss.\n\nThe two later resurface (the Brain back to floating in a jar), with no explanation of how they survived the explosion. The Brotherhood begin raiding genetic research facilities to unlock the secrets of cloning and create a new body for the Brain, so he and Monsieur Mallah can resume their romance. After a short while the Brain's new clone body begins to break down, so he has Mallah rip off his head and put his brain back into another jar.\n\nIn the \"Salvation Run\" storyline, Brain and Monsieur Mallah appear amongst the villains that were sent to the planet Cygnus 4019. An altercation between Monsieur Mallah and Gorilla Grodd ends with Grodd beating Monsieur Mallah to death with Brain's chassis, also killing Brain in the process.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In an alternate future of this new timeline, Brain and Monsieur Mallah assist Gorilla Grodd in taking over the remains of Central City at the time when The Black had taken over most of the world. They capture Animal Man and the heroes that are with him. Animal Man's group is saved by Frankenstein and his Patchwork Army.\nHe appears in DC Rebirth Titans.\n\nOne of the most formidable villains ever encountered by the Doom Patrol, or even in DC Comics, The Brain is more of a cerebral opponent but all the more dangerous for it. A former polymath, The Brain has a genius level IQ which he puts to use as a criminal mastermind and is more than capable of plotting out perfect crimes. The Brain is completely single-minded, and motivated almost entirely towards domination of others, the committing of even more perfect crimes, and ultimate revenge against Niles Caulder.\n\nAdept in psychology, he is also a master of coercion, deceit and manipulation, being able to persuade almost anybody to do his dirty work for him, even to the point where his agents are under the illusion that they are not actually committing evil or immoral acts. This has however on occasion been hinted to be a result of mind control by the use of telepathy on the part of The Brain. It was through these vast cerebral abilities that The Brain was able to unite various villains under his leadership, and form the Brotherhood of Evil.\n\nAlthough others often act as brawn to his brain, most notably his assistant–partner Monsieur Mallah, The Brain has occasionally used agile robotic bodies to give him mobility. The different contraptions which have been seen to hold his brain were designed by The Brain himself (also a master in biology and robotics) and have proved time and time again to be durable and even nigh-indestructible. On the rare occasion when The Brain has been caught vulnerable without robotic protection or assistance from other villains, he has protected himself by attacking opponents through telekinesis.\n\nExcept for the times when he has possessed robot bodies as mentioned above, the Brain is normally portrayed as an ordinary human brain, albeit housed within what could be described as a life-sized chess piece which contains the equipment required to keep him alive; it is this portrayal that was adapted in the animated versions of the Brain as mentioned in this article. In the original Doom Patrol series, he was regularly portrayed as a disembodied brain, bobbing inside a sealed dome filled with a nutrient bath, hooked up with numerous machines, including a loudspeaker to convey his voice.\n\nDuring a confrontation with the newly-formed Justice League and the Doom Patrol, the Brain used genetics equipment provided by the mysterious Locus organization to 'steal' the Martian Manhunter's eyes, Black Canary's vocal chords, the Flash's legs and Green Lantern's right arm, granting him access to the Manhunter's vision abilities, Canary's sonic scream, the Flash's speed, and Green Lantern's power ring. However, during this time he was only ever shown using the ring, and was caught off-guard by its vulnerability to yellow, with Aquaman eventually managing to overpower the Brain's will and use the ring to sever him from his makeshift body.\n\nDC Comics previously had another villain named the Brain during the Golden Age of Comics. He was an ordinary criminal who earned his nickname for his cleverness, and was not literally just a brain. He alongside Captain Bigg, Hopper, False-Face and Rattler were one of five small-time villains hired by Black Star to commit a bank robbery. They were all foiled by the Seven Soldiers of Victory.\n\nIn Smallville season 11, The Brain appears on the back of Monsieur Mallah, robbing the Musée du Louvre. They are both taken down by Superman, and Impulse. In this version, Brain and Mallah are revealed to be lovers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40417602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40417602", "title": "Cancer and nausea", "text": "Cancer and nausea\n\nCancer and nausea are associated in about fifty percent of people affected by cancer. This may be as a result of the cancer itself, or as an effect of the treatment such as chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or other medication such as opiates used for pain relief. About 70 to 80% of people undergoing chemotherapy experience nausea or vomiting. Nausea and vomiting may also occur in people not receiving treatment, often as a result of the disease involving the gastrointestinal tract, electrolyte imbalance, or as a result of anxiety. Nausea and vomiting may be experienced as the most unpleasant side effects of cytotoxic drugs and may result in patients delaying or refusing further radiotherapy or chemotherapy.\n\nThe strategies of management or therapy of nausea and vomiting depend on the underlying causes. Medical treatments or conditions associated with a high risk of nausea and/or vomiting include chemotherapy, radiotherapy and malignant bowel obstruction. Anticipatory nausea and vomiting may also occur. Nausea and vomiting may lead to further medical conditions and complications including: dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, malnutrition, and a decrease in quality of life.\n\nNausea may be defined as an unpleasant sensation of the need to vomit. It may be accompanied by symptoms such salivation, feeling faint, and a fast heart rate. Vomiting is the forceful ejection of stomach contents through the mouth. Although nausea and vomiting are closely related, some patients experience one symptom without the other and it may be easier to eliminate vomiting than nausea. The vomiting reflex (also called emesis) is thought to have evolved in many animal species as a protective mechanism against ingested toxins. In humans, the vomiting response may be preceded by an unpleasant sensation termed nausea, but nausea may also occur without vomiting. The central nervous system is the primary site where a number of emetic stimuli (input) are received, processed and efferent signals (output) are generated as a response and sent to various effector organs or tissues, leading to processes that eventually end in vomiting. The detection of emetic stimuli, the central processing by the brain and the resulting response by organs and tissues that lead to nausea and vomiting are referred to as the emetic pathway or emetic arch.\n\nSome medical conditions that arise as a result of cancer or as a complication of its treatment are known to be associated with a high risk of nausea and/or vomiting. These include malignant bowel obstruction (MBO), chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV), anticipatory nausea and vomiting (ANV), and radiotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (RINV).\n\nMalignant bowel obstruction (MBO) of the gastrointestinal tract is a common complication of advanced cancer, especially in patients with bowel or gynaecological cancer. These include colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, breast cancer, and melanoma. Three percent of all advanced cancers lead to malignant bowel obstruction and 25 to 50 percent of patients with ovarian cancer experience at least one episode of malignant bowel obstruction. The mechanisms of action that may lead to nausea in MBO include mechanical compression of the gut, motility disorders, gastrointestinal secretion accumulation, decreased gastrointestinal absorption, and inflammation. Bowel obstruction and the resulting nausea may also occur as a result of anti-cancer therapy such as radiation, or adhesion after surgery. Impaired gastric emptying as a result of bowel obstruction may not respond to drugs alone, and surgical intervention is sometimes the only means of symptom relief. Some constipating drugs used in cancer therapy such as opioids may cause a slowing of peristalsis of the gut, which may lead to a functional bowel obstruction.\n\nChemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is one of the most feared side effects of chemotherapy and is associated with a significant deterioration in quality of life. CINV is classified into three categories: \n\nRisk factors that predict the occurrence and severity of CINV include sex and age, with females, younger people and people who have a high pretreatment expectation of nausea being at a higher risk, while people with a history of high alcohol consumption being at a lower risk. Other person-related variables, such as chemotherapy dose, rate and route of administration, hydration status, prior history of CINV, emesis during pregnancy or motion sickness, tumour burden, concomitant medication and medical conditions also play a role in the degree of CINV experienced by a person. By far the most important factor which determines the degree of CINV is the emetogenic potential of the chemotherapeutic agents used. Chemotherapeutic agents are classified into four groups according to their degree of emetogenicity: high, moderate, low and minimal.\n\nThe European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) and the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) in 2010 as well as the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) (2011) recommend a prophylaxis to prevent acute vomiting and nausea following chemotherapy with high emetic risk drugs by using a three-drug regimen including a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, dexamethasone and aprepitant (a neurokinin-1 antagonist) given before chemotherapy.\n\nA common consequence of cancer treatment is the development of anticipatory nausea and vomiting (ANV). This kind of nausea is usually elicited by the re-exposure of the patients to the clinical context they need to attend to be treated. Approximately 20% of people undergoing chemotherapy are reported to develop anticipatory nausea and vomiting. Once developed, ANV is difficult to control by pharmacological means. Benzodiazepines are the only drugs that have been found to reduce the occurrence of ANV but their efficacy decreases with time. Recently, clinical trials suggests that cannabidiolic acid suppresses conditioned gaping (ANV) in shrews. Because ANV is widely believed to be a learned response, the best approach is to avoid the development of ANV by adequate prophylaxis and treatment of acute vomiting and nausea from the first exposure to therapy. Behavioral treatment techniques, such as systematic desensitization, progressive muscle relaxation and hypnosis have been shown to be effective against ANV.\n\nThe incidence and severity of radiation therapy-induced nausea and vomiting (RINV) depends on a number of factors including therapy related factors such as irradiated site, single and total dose, fractionation, irradiated volume and radiotherapy techniques. Also involved are person related factors such as gender, general health of the person, age, concurrent or recent chemotherapy, alcohol consumption, previous experience of nausea, vomiting, anxiety as well as the tumor stage. The emetogenic potential of radiotherapy is classified into high, moderate, low and minimal risk depending on the site of irradiation: \n\nNausea and vomiting may have a number of causes in people with cancer. While more than one cause may exist in the same person stimulating symptoms via more than one pathway, the actual cause of nausea and vomiting may be unknown in some people. The underlying causes of nausea and vomiting may in some cases not be directly related to the cancer. The causes may be categorized as disease-related and treatment-related.\n\nThe stimuli which lead to emesis are received and processed in the brain. It is thought that a number of loosely organized neuronal networks within the medulla oblongata probably interact to coordinate the emetic reflex. Some of the brain stem nuclei which have been identified as important in the coordination of the emetic reflex include the parvicellular reticular formation, the Bötzinger complex and the nucleus tractus solitarii. The nuclei coordinating emesis had formerly been referred to as the vomiting complex, but it is no longer thought to represent a single anatomical structure.\n\nEfferent outputs which transmit the information from the brain leading to the motoric response of retching and vomiting include vagal efferents to the esophagus, stomach and intestine as well as spinal somatomotor neurones to the abdominal muscles and phrenic motor neurones (C3–C5) to the diaphragm. Autonomic efferents also supply the heart and airways (vagus), salivary glands (chorda tympani) and skin and are responsible for many of the prodromal signs such as salivation and skin pallor.\n\nNausea and vomiting may be initiated by various stimuli, through different neuronal pathways. A stimulus may act on more than one pathway. Stimuli and pathways include:\n\nThe strategies of management or prevention of nausea and vomiting depend on the underlying causes, whether they are reversible or treatable, stage of the illness, the person's prognosis and other person specific factors. Anti emetic drugs are chosen according to previous effectiveness and side effects.\n\nDrugs that are used in the prophylaxis and therapy of nausea and vomiting in cancer include:\n\nOther non-drug measures may include:\n\nPalliative care is the active care of people with advanced, progressive illness such as cancer. The World Health Organization (WHO) defines it as an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families facing the problems associated with life-threatening illness, through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems (such as nausea or vomiting), physical, psychosocial, and spiritual.\n\nSometimes it is possible or necessary to provide relief for cancer caused nausea and vomiting through palliative surgical intervention. Surgery is however not routinely carried out when there are poor prognostic criteria for surgical intervention such as intra-abdominal carcinomatosis, poor performance status and massive ascites. The surgical approach proves beneficial in affected people with operable lesions, a life expectancy greater than 2 months and good performance status. Often a malignant bowel obstruction is the cause of the symptoms in which case the purpose of palliative surgery is to relieve the symptoms of bowel obstruction by means of several procedures including: \n\n12.7 million new cancer cases and 7.6 million cancer deaths were estimated worldwide in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "854294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=854294", "title": "DNA repair", "text": "DNA repair\n\nDNA repair is a collection of processes by which a cell identifies and corrects damage to the DNA molecules that encode its genome. In human cells, both normal metabolic activities and environmental factors such as radiation can cause DNA damage, resulting in as many as 1 million individual molecular lesions per cell per day. Many of these lesions cause structural damage to the DNA molecule and can alter or eliminate the cell's ability to transcribe the gene that the affected DNA encodes. Other lesions induce potentially harmful mutations in the cell's genome, which affect the survival of its daughter cells after it undergoes mitosis. As a consequence, the DNA repair process is constantly active as it responds to damage in the DNA structure. When normal repair processes fail, and when cellular apoptosis does not occur, irreparable DNA damage may occur, including double-strand breaks and DNA crosslinkages (interstrand crosslinks or ICLs). This can eventually lead to malignant tumors, or cancer as per the two hit hypothesis.\n\nThe rate of DNA repair is dependent on many factors, including the cell type, the age of the cell, and the extracellular environment. A cell that has accumulated a large amount of DNA damage, or one that no longer effectively repairs damage incurred to its DNA, can enter one of three possible states:\n\nThe DNA repair ability of a cell is vital to the integrity of its genome and thus to the normal functionality of that organism. Many genes that were initially shown to influence life span have turned out to be involved in DNA damage repair and protection.\nThe 2015 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Tomas Lindahl, Paul Modrich, and Aziz Sancar for their work on the molecular mechanisms of DNA repair processes.\n\nDNA damage, due to environmental factors and normal metabolic processes inside the cell, occurs at a rate of 10,000 to 1,000,000 molecular lesions per cell per day. While this constitutes only 0.000165% of the human genome's approximately 6 billion bases (3 billion base pairs), unrepaired lesions in critical genes (such as tumor suppressor genes) can impede a cell's ability to carry out its function and appreciably increase the likelihood of tumor formation and contribute to tumour heterogeneity.\n\nThe vast majority of DNA damage affects the primary structure of the double helix; that is, the bases themselves are chemically modified. These modifications can in turn disrupt the molecules' regular helical structure by introducing non-native chemical bonds or bulky adducts that do not fit in the standard double helix. Unlike proteins and RNA, DNA usually lacks tertiary structure and therefore damage or disturbance does not occur at that level. DNA is, however, supercoiled and wound around \"packaging\" proteins called histones (in eukaryotes), and both superstructures are vulnerable to the effects of DNA damage.\n\nDNA damage can be subdivided into two main types:\n\n\nThe replication of damaged DNA before cell division can lead to the incorporation of wrong bases opposite damaged ones. Daughter cells that inherit these wrong bases carry mutations from which the original DNA sequence is unrecoverable (except in the rare case of a back mutation, for example, through gene conversion).\n\nThere are several types of damage to DNA due to endogenous cellular processes:\n\nDamage caused by exogenous agents comes in many forms. Some examples are:\n\nUV damage, alkylation/methylation, X-ray damage and oxidative damage are examples of induced damage. Spontaneous damage can include the loss of a base, deamination, sugar ring puckering and tautomeric shift.\n\nIn human cells, and eukaryotic cells in general, DNA is found in two cellular locations — inside the nucleus and inside the mitochondria. Nuclear DNA (nDNA) exists as chromatin during non-replicative stages of the cell cycle and is condensed into aggregate structures known as chromosomes during cell division. In either state the DNA is highly compacted and wound up around bead-like proteins called histones. Whenever a cell needs to express the genetic information encoded in its nDNA the required chromosomal region is unravelled, genes located therein are expressed, and then the region is condensed back to its resting conformation. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is located inside mitochondria organelles, exists in multiple copies, and is also tightly associated with a number of proteins to form a complex known as the nucleoid. Inside mitochondria, reactive oxygen species (ROS), or free radicals, byproducts of the constant production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) via oxidative phosphorylation, create a highly oxidative environment that is known to damage mtDNA. A critical enzyme in counteracting the toxicity of these species is superoxide dismutase, which is present in both the mitochondria and cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells.\n\nSenescence, an irreversible process in which the cell no longer divides, is a protective response to the shortening of the chromosome ends. The telomeres are long regions of repetitive noncoding DNA that cap chromosomes and undergo partial degradation each time a cell undergoes division (see Hayflick limit). In contrast, quiescence is a reversible state of cellular dormancy that is unrelated to genome damage (see cell cycle). Senescence in cells may serve as a functional alternative to apoptosis in cases where the physical presence of a cell for spatial reasons is required by the organism, which serves as a \"last resort\" mechanism to prevent a cell with damaged DNA from replicating inappropriately in the absence of pro-growth cellular signaling. Unregulated cell division can lead to the formation of a tumor (see cancer), which is potentially lethal to an organism. Therefore, the induction of senescence and apoptosis is considered to be part of a strategy of protection against cancer.\n\nIt is important to distinguish between DNA damage and mutation, the two major types of error in DNA. DNA damage and mutation are fundamentally different. Damage results in physical abnormalities in the DNA, such as single- and double-strand breaks, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine residues, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon adducts. DNA damage can be recognized by enzymes, and thus can be correctly repaired if redundant information, such as the undamaged sequence in the complementary DNA strand or in a homologous chromosome, is available for copying. If a cell retains DNA damage, transcription of a gene can be prevented, and thus translation into a protein will also be blocked. Replication may also be blocked or the cell may die.\n\nIn contrast to DNA damage, a mutation is a change in the base sequence of the DNA. A mutation cannot be recognized by enzymes once the base change is present in both DNA strands, and thus a mutation cannot be repaired. At the cellular level, mutations can cause alterations in protein function and regulation. Mutations are replicated when the cell replicates. In a population of cells, mutant cells will increase or decrease in frequency according to the effects of the mutation on the ability of the cell to survive and reproduce.\n\nAlthough distinctly different from each other, DNA damage and mutation are related because DNA damage often causes errors of DNA synthesis during replication or repair; these errors are a major source of mutation.\n\nGiven these properties of DNA damage and mutation, it can be seen that DNA damage is a special problem in non-dividing or slowly-dividing cells, where unrepaired damage will tend to accumulate over time. On the other hand, in rapidly-dividing cells, unrepaired DNA damage that does not kill the cell by blocking replication will tend to cause replication errors and thus mutation. The great majority of mutations that are not neutral in their effect are deleterious to a cell's survival. Thus, in a population of cells composing a tissue with replicating cells, mutant cells will tend to be lost. However, infrequent mutations that provide a survival advantage will tend to clonally expand at the expense of neighboring cells in the tissue. This advantage to the cell is disadvantageous to the whole organism, because such mutant cells can give rise to cancer. Thus, DNA damage in frequently dividing cells, because it gives rise to mutations, is a prominent cause of cancer. In contrast, DNA damage in infrequently-dividing cells is likely a prominent cause of aging.\n\nCells cannot function if DNA damage corrupts the integrity and accessibility of essential information in the genome (but cells remain superficially functional when non-essential genes are missing or damaged). Depending on the type of damage inflicted on the DNA's double helical structure, a variety of repair strategies have evolved to restore lost information. If possible, cells use the unmodified complementary strand of the DNA or the sister chromatid as a template to recover the original information. Without access to a template, cells use an error-prone recovery mechanism known as translesion synthesis as a last resort.\n\nDamage to DNA alters the spatial configuration of the helix, and such alterations can be detected by the cell. Once damage is localized, specific DNA repair molecules bind at or near the site of damage, inducing other molecules to bind and form a complex that enables the actual repair to take place.\n\nCells are known to eliminate three types of damage to their DNA by chemically reversing it. These mechanisms do not require a template, since the types of damage they counteract can occur in only one of the four bases. Such direct reversal mechanisms are specific to the type of damage incurred and do not involve breakage of the phosphodiester backbone. The formation of pyrimidine dimers upon irradiation with UV light results in an abnormal covalent bond between adjacent pyrimidine bases. The photoreactivation process directly reverses this damage by the action of the enzyme photolyase, whose activation is obligately dependent on energy absorbed from blue/UV light (300–500 nm wavelength) to promote catalysis. Photolyase, an old enzyme present in bacteria, fungi, and most animals no longer functions in humans, who instead use nucleotide excision repair to repair damage from UV irradiation. Another type of damage, methylation of guanine bases, is directly reversed by the protein methyl guanine methyl transferase (MGMT), the bacterial equivalent of which is called ogt. This is an expensive process because each MGMT molecule can be used only once; that is, the reaction is stoichiometric rather than catalytic. A generalized response to methylating agents in bacteria is known as the adaptive response and confers a level of resistance to alkylating agents upon sustained exposure by upregulation of alkylation repair enzymes. The third type of DNA damage reversed by cells is certain methylation of the bases cytosine and adenine.\n\nWhen only one of the two strands of a double helix has a defect, the other strand can be used as a template to guide the correction of the damaged strand. In order to repair damage to one of the two paired molecules of DNA, there exist a number of excision repair mechanisms that remove the damaged nucleotide and replace it with an undamaged nucleotide complementary to that found in the undamaged DNA strand.\n\nDouble-strand breaks, in which both strands in the double helix are severed, are particularly hazardous to the cell because they can lead to genome rearrangements. It was noted in some studies that double-strand breaks and a \"cross-linkage joining both strands at the same point is irreparable because neither strand can then serve as a template for repair. The cell will die in the next mitosis or in some rare instances, mutate.\" Three mechanisms exist to repair double-strand breaks (DSBs): non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ), and homologous recombination (HR). In an \"in vitro\" system, MMEJ occurred in mammalian cells at the levels of 10–20% of HR when both HR and NHEJ mechanisms were also available.\nIn NHEJ, DNA Ligase IV, a specialized DNA ligase that forms a complex with the cofactor XRCC4, directly joins the two ends. To guide accurate repair, NHEJ relies on short homologous sequences called microhomologies present on the single-stranded tails of the DNA ends to be joined. If these overhangs are compatible, repair is usually accurate. NHEJ can also introduce mutations during repair. Loss of damaged nucleotides at the break site can lead to deletions, and joining of nonmatching termini forms insertions or translocations. NHEJ is especially important before the cell has replicated its DNA, since there is no template available for repair by homologous recombination. There are \"backup\" NHEJ pathways in higher eukaryotes. Besides its role as a genome caretaker, NHEJ is required for joining hairpin-capped double-strand breaks induced during V(D)J recombination, the process that generates diversity in B-cell and T-cell receptors in the vertebrate immune system.\n\nHomologous recombination requires the presence of an identical or nearly identical sequence to be used as a template for repair of the break. The enzymatic machinery responsible for this repair process is nearly identical to the machinery responsible for chromosomal crossover during meiosis. This pathway allows a damaged chromosome to be repaired using a sister chromatid (available in G2 after DNA replication) or a homologous chromosome as a template. DSBs caused by the replication machinery attempting to synthesize across a single-strand break or unrepaired lesion cause collapse of the replication fork and are typically repaired by recombination.\n\nMMEJ starts with short-range end resection by MRE11 nuclease on either side of a double-strand break to reveal microhomology regions. In further steps, Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) is required and may be an early step in MMEJ. There is pairing of microhomology regions followed by recruitment of flap structure-specific endonuclease 1 (FEN1) to remove overhanging flaps. This is followed by recruitment of XRCC1–LIG3 to the site for ligating the DNA ends, leading to an intact DNA. MMEJ is always accompanied by a deletion, so that MMEJ is a mutagenic pathway for DNA repair.\n\nThe extremophile \"Deinococcus radiodurans\" has a remarkable ability to survive DNA damage from ionizing radiation and other sources. At least two copies of the genome, with random DNA breaks, can form DNA fragments through annealing. Partially overlapping fragments are then used for synthesis of homologous regions through a moving D-loop that can continue extension until they find complementary partner strands. In the final step there is crossover by means of RecA-dependent homologous recombination.\n\nTopoisomerases introduce both single- and double-strand breaks in the course of changing the DNA's state of supercoiling, which is especially common in regions near an open replication fork. Such breaks are not considered DNA damage because they are a natural intermediate in the topoisomerase biochemical mechanism and are immediately repaired by the enzymes that created them.\n\nTranslesion synthesis (TLS) is a DNA damage tolerance process that allows the DNA replication machinery to replicate past DNA lesions such as thymine dimers or AP sites. It involves switching out regular DNA polymerases for specialized translesion polymerases (i.e. DNA polymerase IV or V, from the Y Polymerase family), often with larger active sites that can facilitate the insertion of bases opposite damaged nucleotides. The polymerase switching is thought to be mediated by, among other factors, the post-translational modification of the replication processivity factor PCNA. Translesion synthesis polymerases often have low fidelity (high propensity to insert wrong bases) on undamaged templates relative to regular polymerases. However, many are extremely efficient at inserting correct bases opposite specific types of damage. For example, Pol η mediates error-free bypass of lesions induced by UV irradiation, whereas Pol ι introduces mutations at these sites. Pol η is known to add the first adenine across the T^T photodimer using Watson-Crick base pairing and the second adenine will be added in its syn conformation using Hoogsteen base pairing. From a cellular perspective, risking the introduction of point mutations during translesion synthesis may be preferable to resorting to more drastic mechanisms of DNA repair, which may cause gross chromosomal aberrations or cell death. In short, the process involves specialized polymerases either bypassing or repairing lesions at locations of stalled DNA replication. For example, Human DNA polymerase eta can bypass complex DNA lesions like guanine-thymine intra-strand crosslink, G[8,5-Me]T, although it can cause targeted and semi-targeted mutations. Paromita Raychaudhury and Ashis Basu studied the toxicity and mutagenesis of the same lesion in \"Escherichia coli\" by replicating a G[8,5-Me]T-modified plasmid in \"E. coli\" with specific DNA polymerase knockouts. Viability was very low in a strain lacking pol II, pol IV, and pol V, the three SOS-inducible DNA polymerases, indicating that translesion synthesis is conducted primarily by these specialized DNA polymerases.\nA bypass platform is provided to these polymerases by Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Under normal circumstances, PCNA bound to polymerases replicates the DNA. At a site of lesion, PCNA is ubiquitinated, or modified, by the RAD6/RAD18 proteins to provide a platform for the specialized polymerases to bypass the lesion and resume DNA replication. After translesion synthesis, extension is required. This extension can be carried out by a replicative polymerase if the TLS is error-free, as in the case of Pol η, yet if TLS results in a mismatch, a specialized polymerase is needed to extend it; Pol ζ. Pol ζ is unique in that it can extend terminal mismatches, whereas more processive polymerases cannot. So when a lesion is encountered, the replication fork will stall, PCNA will switch from a processive polymerase to a TLS polymerase such as Pol ι to fix the lesion, then PCNA may switch to Pol ζ to extend the mismatch, and last PCNA will switch to the processive polymerase to continue replication.\n\nCells exposed to ionizing radiation, ultraviolet light or chemicals are prone to acquire multiple sites of bulky DNA lesions and double-strand breaks. Moreover, DNA damaging agents can damage other biomolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and RNA. The accumulation of damage, to be specific, double-strand breaks or adducts stalling the replication forks, are among known stimulation signals for a global response to DNA damage. The global response to damage is an act directed toward the cells' own preservation and triggers multiple pathways of macromolecular repair, lesion bypass, tolerance, or apoptosis. The common features of global response are induction of multiple genes, cell cycle arrest, and inhibition of cell division.\n\nThe packaging of eukaryotic DNA into chromatin presents a barrier to all DNA-based processes that require recruitment of enzymes to their sites of action. To allow DNA repair, the chromatin must be remodeled. In eukaryotes, ATP dependent chromatin remodeling complexes and histone-modifying enzymes are two predominant factors employed to accomplish this remodeling process.\n\nChromatin relaxation occurs rapidly at the site of a DNA damage. In one of the earliest steps, the stress-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), phosphorylates SIRT6 on serine 10 in response to double-strand breaks or other DNA damage. This post-translational modification facilitates the mobilization of SIRT6 to DNA damage sites, and is required for efficient recruitment of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) to DNA break sites and for efficient repair of DSBs. PARP1 protein starts to appear at DNA damage sites in less than a second, with half maximum accumulation within 1.6 seconds after the damage occurs. PARP1 synthesizes polymeric adenosine diphosphate ribose (poly (ADP-ribose) or PAR) chains on itself. Next the chromatin remodeler ALC1 quickly attaches to the product of PARP1 action, a poly-ADP ribose chain, and ALC1 completes arrival at the DNA damage within 10 seconds of the occurrence of the damage. About half of the maximum chromatin relaxation, presumably due to action of ALC1, occurs by 10 seconds. This then allows recruitment of the DNA repair enzyme MRE11, to initiate DNA repair, within 13 seconds.\n\nγH2AX, the phosphorylated form of H2AX is also involved in the early steps leading to chromatin decondensation after DNA double-strand breaks. The histone variant H2AX constitutes about 10% of the H2A histones in human chromatin. γH2AX (H2AX phosphorylated on serine 139) can be detected as soon as 20 seconds after irradiation of cells (with DNA double-strand break formation), and half maximum accumulation of γH2AX occurs in one minute. The extent of chromatin with phosphorylated γH2AX is about two million base pairs at the site of a DNA double-strand break. γH2AX does not, itself, cause chromatin decondensation, but within 30 seconds of irradiation, RNF8 protein can be detected in association with γH2AX. RNF8 mediates extensive chromatin decondensation, through its subsequent interaction with CHD4, a component of the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase complex NuRD.\n\nDDB2 occurs in a heterodimeric complex with DDB1. This complex further complexes with the ubiquitin ligase protein CUL4A and with PARP1. This larger complex rapidly associates with UV-induced damage within chromatin, with half-maximum association completed in 40 seconds. The PARP1 protein, attached to both DDB1 and DDB2, then PARylates (creates a poly-ADP ribose chain) on DDB2 that attracts the DNA remodeling protein ALC1. Action of ALC1 relaxes the chromatin at the site of UV damage to DNA. This relaxation allows other proteins in the nucleotide excision repair pathway to enter the chromatin and repair UV-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer damages.\n\nAfter rapid chromatin remodeling, cell cycle checkpoints are activated to allow DNA repair to occur before the cell cycle progresses. First, two kinases, ATM and ATR are activated within 5 or 6 minutes after DNA is damaged. This is followed by phosphorylation of the cell cycle checkpoint protein Chk1, initiating its function, about 10 minutes after DNA is damaged.\n\nAfter DNA damage, cell cycle checkpoints are activated. Checkpoint activation pauses the cell cycle and gives the cell time to repair the damage before continuing to divide. DNA damage checkpoints occur at the G1/S and G2/M boundaries. An intra-S checkpoint also exists. Checkpoint activation is controlled by two master kinases, ATM and ATR. ATM responds to DNA double-strand breaks and disruptions in chromatin structure, whereas ATR primarily responds to stalled replication forks. These kinases phosphorylate downstream targets in a signal transduction cascade, eventually leading to cell cycle arrest. A class of checkpoint mediator proteins including BRCA1, MDC1, and 53BP1 has also been identified. These proteins seem to be required for transmitting the checkpoint activation signal to downstream proteins.\n\nDNA damage checkpoint is a signal transduction pathway that blocks cell cycle progression in G1, G2 and metaphase and slows down the rate of S phase progression when DNA is damaged. It leads to a pause in cell cycle allowing the cell time to repair the damage before continuing to divide.\n\nCheckpoint Proteins can be separated into four groups: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-like protein kinase, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-like group, two serine/threonine(S/T) kinases and their adaptors. Central to all DNA damage induced checkpoints responses is a pair of large protein kinases belonging to the first group of PI3K-like protein kinases-the ATM (Ataxia telangiectasia mutated) and ATR (Ataxia- and Rad-related) kinases, whose sequence and functions have been well conserved in evolution. All DNA damage response requires either ATM or ATR because they have the ability to bind to the chromosomes at the site of DNA damage, together with accessory proteins that are platforms on which DNA damage response components and DNA repair complexes can be assembled.\n\nAn important downstream target of ATM and ATR is p53, as it is required for inducing apoptosis following DNA damage. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 is induced by both p53-dependent and p53-independent mechanisms and can arrest the cell cycle at the G1/S and G2/M checkpoints by deactivating cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase complexes.\n\nThe SOS response is the changes in gene expression in \"Escherichia coli\" and other bacteria in response to extensive DNA damage. The prokaryotic SOS system is regulated by two key proteins: LexA and RecA. The LexA homodimer is a transcriptional repressor that binds to operator sequences commonly referred to as SOS boxes. In \"Escherichia coli\" it is known that LexA regulates transcription of approximately 48 genes including the lexA and recA genes. The SOS response is known to be widespread in the Bacteria domain, but it is mostly absent in some bacterial phyla, like the Spirochetes.\nThe most common cellular signals activating the SOS response are regions of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), arising from stalled replication forks or double-strand breaks, which are processed by DNA helicase to separate the two DNA strands. In the initiation step, RecA protein binds to ssDNA in an ATP hydrolysis driven reaction creating RecA–ssDNA filaments. RecA–ssDNA filaments activate LexA autoprotease activity, which ultimately leads to cleavage of LexA dimer and subsequent LexA degradation. The loss of LexA repressor induces transcription of the SOS genes and allows for further signal induction, inhibition of cell division and an increase in levels of proteins responsible for damage processing.\n\nIn \"Escherichia coli\", SOS boxes are 20-nucleotide long sequences near promoters with palindromic structure and a high degree of sequence conservation. In other classes and phyla, the sequence of SOS boxes varies considerably, with different length and composition, but it is always highly conserved and one of the strongest short signals in the genome. The high information content of SOS boxes permits differential binding of LexA to different promoters and allows for timing of the SOS response. The lesion repair genes are induced at the beginning of SOS response. The error-prone translesion polymerases, for example, UmuCD'2 (also called DNA polymerase V), are induced later on as a last resort. Once the DNA damage is repaired or bypassed using polymerases or through recombination, the amount of single-stranded DNA in cells is decreased, lowering the amounts of RecA filaments decreases cleavage activity of LexA homodimer, which then binds to the SOS boxes near promoters and restores normal gene expression.\n\nEukaryotic cells exposed to DNA damaging agents also activate important defensive pathways by inducing multiple proteins involved in DNA repair, cell cycle checkpoint control, protein trafficking and degradation. Such genome wide transcriptional response is very complex and tightly regulated, thus allowing coordinated global response to damage. Exposure of yeast \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" to DNA damaging agents results in overlapping but distinct transcriptional profiles. Similarities to environmental shock response indicates that a general global stress response pathway exist at the level of transcriptional activation. In contrast, different human cell types respond to damage differently indicating an absence of a common global response. The probable explanation for this difference between yeast and human cells may be in the heterogeneity of mammalian cells. In an animal different types of cells are distributed among different organs that have evolved different sensitivities to DNA damage.\n\nIn general global response to DNA damage involves expression of multiple genes responsible for postreplication repair, homologous recombination, nucleotide excision repair, DNA damage checkpoint, global transcriptional activation, genes controlling mRNA decay, and many others. A large amount of damage to a cell leaves it with an important decision: undergo apoptosis and die, or survive at the cost of living with a modified genome. An increase in tolerance to damage can lead to an increased rate of survival that will allow a greater accumulation of mutations. Yeast Rev1 and human polymerase η are members of [Y family translesion DNA polymerases present during global response to DNA damage and are responsible for enhanced mutagenesis during a global response to DNA damage in eukaryotes.\n\nExperimental animals with genetic deficiencies in DNA repair often show decreased life span and increased cancer incidence. For example, mice deficient in the dominant NHEJ pathway and in telomere maintenance mechanisms get lymphoma and infections more often, and, as a consequence, have shorter lifespans than wild-type mice. In similar manner, mice deficient in a key repair and transcription protein that unwinds DNA helices have premature onset of aging-related diseases and consequent shortening of lifespan. However, not every DNA repair deficiency creates exactly the predicted effects; mice deficient in the NER pathway exhibited shortened life span without correspondingly higher rates of mutation.\n\nIf the rate of DNA damage exceeds the capacity of the cell to repair it, the accumulation of errors can overwhelm the cell and result in early senescence, apoptosis, or cancer. Inherited diseases associated with faulty DNA repair functioning result in premature aging, increased sensitivity to carcinogens, and correspondingly increased cancer risk (see below). On the other hand, organisms with enhanced DNA repair systems, such as \"Deinococcus radiodurans\", the most radiation-resistant known organism, exhibit remarkable resistance to the double-strand break-inducing effects of radioactivity, likely due to enhanced efficiency of DNA repair and especially NHEJ.\n\nA number of individual genes have been identified as influencing variations in life span within a population of organisms. The effects of these genes is strongly dependent on the environment, in particular, on the organism's diet. Caloric restriction reproducibly results in extended lifespan in a variety of organisms, likely via nutrient sensing pathways and decreased metabolic rate. The molecular mechanisms by which such restriction results in lengthened lifespan are as yet unclear (see for some discussion); however, the behavior of many genes known to be involved in DNA repair is altered under conditions of caloric restriction. Several agents reported to have anti-aging properties have been shown to attenuate constitutive level of mTOR signaling, an evidence of reduction of metabolic activity, and concurrently to reduce constitutive level of DNA damage induced by endogenously generated reactive oxygen species.\nFor example, increasing the gene dosage of the gene SIR-2, which regulates DNA packaging in the nematode worm \"Caenorhabditis elegans\", can significantly extend lifespan. The mammalian homolog of SIR-2 is known to induce downstream DNA repair factors involved in NHEJ, an activity that is especially promoted under conditions of caloric restriction. Caloric restriction has been closely linked to the rate of base excision repair in the nuclear DNA of rodents, although similar effects have not been observed in mitochondrial DNA.\n\nThe \"C. elegans\" gene AGE-1, an upstream effector of DNA repair pathways, confers dramatically extended life span under free-feeding conditions but leads to a decrease in reproductive fitness under conditions of caloric restriction. This observation supports the pleiotropy theory of the biological origins of aging, which suggests that genes conferring a large survival advantage early in life will be selected for even if they carry a corresponding disadvantage late in life.\n\nDefects in the NER mechanism are responsible for several genetic disorders, including:\n\n\nMental retardation often accompanies the latter two disorders, suggesting increased vulnerability of developmental neurons.\n\nOther DNA repair disorders include:\n\n\nAll of the above diseases are often called \"segmental progerias\" (\"accelerated aging diseases\") because their victims appear elderly and suffer from aging-related diseases at an abnormally young age, while not manifesting all the symptoms of old age.\n\nOther diseases associated with reduced DNA repair function include Fanconi anemia, hereditary breast cancer and hereditary colon cancer.\n\nBecause of inherent limitations in the DNA repair mechanisms, if humans lived long enough, they would all eventually develop cancer. There are at least 34 Inherited human DNA repair gene mutations that increase cancer risk. Many of these mutations cause DNA repair to be less effective than normal. In particular, Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is strongly associated with specific mutations in the DNA mismatch repair pathway. \"BRCA1\" and \"BRCA2\", two important genes whose mutations confer a hugely increased risk of breast cancer on carriers, are both associated with a large number of DNA repair pathways, especially NHEJ and homologous recombination.\n\nCancer therapy procedures such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy work by overwhelming the capacity of the cell to repair DNA damage, resulting in cell death. Cells that are most rapidly dividing – most typically cancer cells – are preferentially affected. The side-effect is that other non-cancerous but rapidly dividing cells such as progenitor cells in the gut, skin, and hematopoietic system are also affected. Modern cancer treatments attempt to localize the DNA damage to cells and tissues only associated with cancer, either by physical means (concentrating the therapeutic agent in the region of the tumor) or by biochemical means (exploiting a feature unique to cancer cells in the body). ...; in the context of therapies targeting DNA damage response genes, the latter approach has been termed 'synthetic lethality'.\n\nPerhaps the most well-known of these 'synthetic lethality' drugs is the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) inhibitor olaparib, which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2015 for the treatment in women of BRCA-defective ovarian cancer. Tumor cells with partial loss of DNA damage response (specifically, homologous recombination repair) are dependent on another mechanism – single-strand break repair – which is a mechanism consisting, in part, of the PARP1 gene product. Olaparib is combined with chemotherapeutics to inhibit single-strand break repair induced by DNA damage caused by the co-administered chemotherapy. Tumor cells relying on this residual DNA repair mechanism are unable to repair the damage and hence are not able to survive and proliferate, whereas normal cells can repair the damage with the functioning homologous recombination mechanism.\n\nMany other drugs for use against other residual DNA repair mechanisms commonly found in cancer are currently under investigation. However, synthetic lethality therapeutic approaches have been questioned due to emerging evidence of acquired resistance, achieved through rewiring of DNA damage response pathways and reversion of previously-inhibited defects.\n\nIt has become apparent over the past several years that the DNA damage response acts as a barrier to the malignant transformation of preneoplastic cells. Previous studies have shown an elevated DNA damage response in cell-culture models with oncogene activation and preneoplastic colon adenomas. DNA damage response mechanisms trigger cell-cycle arrest, and attempt to repair DNA lesions or promote cell death/senescence if repair is not possible. Replication stress is observed in preneoplastic cells due to increased proliferation signals from oncogenic mutations. Replication stress is characterized by: increased replication initiation/origin firing; increased transcription and collisions of transcription-replication complexes; nucleotide deficiency; increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS).\n\nReplication stress, along with the selection for inactivating mutations in DNA damage response genes in the evolution of the tumor, leads to downregulation and/or loss of some DNA damage response mechanisms, and hence loss of DNA repair and/or senescence/programmed cell death. In experimental mouse models, loss of DNA damage response-mediated cell senescence was observed after using a short hairpin RNA (shRNA) to inhibit the double-strand break response kinase ataxia telangiectasia (ATM), leading to increased tumor size and invasiveness. Humans born with inherited defects in DNA repair mechanisms (for example, Li-Fraumeni syndrome) have a higher cancer risk.\n\nThe prevalence of DNA damage response mutations differs across cancer types; for example, 30% of breast invasive carcinomas have mutations in genes involved in homologous recombination. In cancer, downregulation is observed across all DNA damage response mechanisms (base excision repair (BER), nucleotide excision repair (NER), DNA mismatch repair (MMR), homologous recombination repair (HR), non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and translesion DNA synthesis (TLS). As well as mutations to DNA damage repair genes, mutations also arise in the genes responsible for arresting the cell cycle to allow sufficient time for DNA repair to occur, and some genes are involved in both DNA damage repair and cell cycle checkpoint control, for example ATM and checkpoint kinase 2 (CHEK2) – a tumor suppressor that is often absent or downregulated in non-small cell lung cancer.\n\nTable: Genes involved in DNA damage response pathways and frequently mutated in cancer (HR = homologous recombination; NHEJ = non-homologous end joining; SSA = single-strand annealing; FA = fanconi anemia pathway; BER = base excision repair; NER = nucleotide excision repair; MMR = mismatch repair)\n\nClassically, cancer has been viewed as a set of diseases that are driven by progressive genetic abnormalities that include mutations in tumour-suppressor genes and oncogenes, and chromosomal aberrations. However, it has become apparent that cancer is also driven by\nepigenetic alterations.\n\nEpigenetic alterations refer to functionally relevant modifications to the genome that do not involve a change in the nucleotide sequence. Examples of such modifications are changes in DNA methylation (hypermethylation and hypomethylation) and histone modification, changes in chromosomal architecture (caused by inappropriate expression of proteins such as HMGA2 or HMGA1) and changes caused by microRNAs. Each of these epigenetic alterations serves to regulate gene expression without altering the underlying DNA sequence. These changes usually remain through cell divisions, last for multiple cell generations, and can be considered to be epimutations (equivalent to mutations).\n\nWhile large numbers of epigenetic alterations are found in cancers, the epigenetic alterations in DNA repair genes, causing reduced expression of DNA repair proteins, appear to be particularly important. Such alterations are thought to occur early in progression to cancer and to be a likely cause of the genetic instability characteristic of cancers.\n\nReduced expression of DNA repair genes causes deficient DNA repair. When DNA repair is deficient DNA damages remain in cells at a higher than usual level and these excess damages cause increased frequencies of mutation or epimutation. Mutation rates increase substantially in cells defective in DNA mismatch repair or in homologous recombinational repair (HRR). Chromosomal rearrangements and aneuploidy also increase in HRR defective cells.\n\nHigher levels of DNA damage not only cause increased mutation, but also cause increased epimutation. During repair of DNA double strand breaks, or repair of other DNA damages, incompletely cleared sites of repair can cause epigenetic gene silencing.\n\nDeficient expression of DNA repair proteins due to an inherited mutation can cause increased risk of cancer. Individuals with an inherited impairment in any of 34 DNA repair genes (see article DNA repair-deficiency disorder) have an increased risk of cancer, with some defects causing up to a 100% lifetime chance of cancer (e.g. p53 mutations). However, such germline mutations (which cause highly penetrant cancer syndromes) are the cause of only about 1 percent of cancers.\n\nDeficiencies in DNA repair enzymes are occasionally caused by a newly arising somatic mutation in a DNA repair gene, but are much more frequently caused by epigenetic alterations that reduce or silence expression of DNA repair genes. For example, when 113 colorectal cancers were examined in sequence, only four had a missense mutation in the DNA repair gene MGMT, while the majority had reduced MGMT expression due to methylation of the MGMT promoter region (an epigenetic alteration). Five different studies found that between 40% and 90% of colorectal cancers have reduced MGMT expression due to methylation of the MGMT promoter region.\n\nSimilarly, out of 119 cases of mismatch repair-deficient colorectal cancers that lacked DNA repair gene PMS2 expression, PMS2 was deficient in 6 due to mutations in the PMS2 gene, while in 103 cases PMS2 expression was deficient because its pairing partner MLH1 was repressed due to promoter methylation (PMS2 protein is unstable in the absence of MLH1). In the other 10 cases, loss of PMS2 expression was likely due to epigenetic overexpression of the microRNA, miR-155, which down-regulates MLH1.\n\nIn further examples (tabulated in Table 4 of this reference), epigenetic defects were found at frequencies of between 13%–100% for the DNA repair genes BRCA1, WRN, FANCB, FANCF, MGMT, MLH1, MSH2, MSH4, ERCC1, XPF, NEIL1 and ATM. These epigenetic defects occurred in various cancers (e.g. breast, ovarian, colorectal and head and neck). Two or three deficiencies in the expression of ERCC1, XPF or PMS2 occur simultaneously in the majority of the 49 colon cancers evaluated by Facista et al.\n\nThe chart in this section shows some frequent DNA damaging agents, examples of DNA lesions they cause, and the pathways that deal with these DNA damages. At least 169 enzymes are either directly employed in DNA repair or influence DNA repair processes. Of these, 83 are directly employed in repairing the 5 types of DNA damages illustrated in the chart.\n\nSome of the more well studied genes central to these repair processes are shown in the chart. The gene designations shown in red, gray or cyan indicate genes frequently epigenetically altered in various types of cancers. Wikipedia articles on each of the genes highlighted by red, gray or cyan describe the epigenetic alteration(s) and the cancer(s) in which these epimutations are found. Four review articles, and two broad experimental survey articles also document most of these epigenetic DNA repair deficiencies in cancers.\n\nRed-highlighted genes are frequently reduced or silenced by epigenetic mechanisms in various cancers. When these genes have low or absent expression, DNA damages can accumulate. Replication errors past these damages (see translesion synthesis) can lead to increased mutations and, ultimately, cancer. Epigenetic repression of DNA repair genes in accurate DNA repair pathways appear to be central to carcinogenesis.\n\nThe two gray-highlighted genes \"RAD51\" and \"BRCA2\", are required for homologous recombinational repair. They are sometimes epigenetically over-expressed and sometimes under-expressed in certain cancers. As indicated in the Wikipedia articles on RAD51 and BRCA2, such cancers ordinarily have epigenetic deficiencies in other DNA repair genes. These repair deficiencies would likely cause increased unrepaired DNA damages. The over-expression of \"RAD51\" and \"BRCA2\" seen in these cancers may reflect selective pressures for compensatory \"RAD51\" or \"BRCA2\" over-expression and increased homologous recombinational repair to at least partially deal with such excess DNA damages. In those cases where \"RAD51\" or \"BRCA2\" are under-expressed, this would itself lead to increased unrepaired DNA damages. Replication errors past these damages (see translesion synthesis) could cause increased mutations and cancer, so that under-expression of \"RAD51\" or \"BRCA2\" would be carcinogenic in itself.\n\nCyan-highlighted genes are in the microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ) pathway and are up-regulated in cancer. MMEJ is an additional error-prone \"inaccurate\" repair pathway for double-strand breaks. In MMEJ repair of a double-strand break, an homology of 5–25 complementary base pairs between both paired strands is sufficient to align the strands, but mismatched ends (flaps) are usually present. MMEJ removes the extra nucleotides (flaps) where strands are joined, and then ligates the strands to create an intact DNA double helix. MMEJ almost always involves at least a small deletion, so that it is a mutagenic pathway. FEN1, the flap endonuclease in MMEJ, is epigenetically increased by promoter hypomethylation and is over-expressed in the majority of cancers of the breast, prostate, stomach, neuroblastomas, pancreas, and lung. PARP1 is also over-expressed when its promoter region ETS site is epigenetically hypomethylated, and this contributes to progression to endometrial cancer, BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer, and BRCA-mutated serous ovarian cancer. Other genes in the MMEJ pathway are also over-expressed in a number of cancers (see MMEJ for summary), and are also shown in cyan.\n\nDifferential activity of DNA repair pathways across various regions of the human genome causes mutations to be very unevenly distributed within tumor genomes. In particular, the gene-rich, early-replicating regions of the human genome exhibit lower mutation frequencies than the gene-poor, late-replicating heterochromatin. One mechanism underlying this involves the histone modification H3K36me3, which can recruit mismatch repair proteins, thereby lowering mutation rates in H3K36me3-marked regions. Another important mechanism concerns nucleotide excision repair, which can be recruited by the transcription machinery, lowering somatic mutation rates in active genes and other open chromatin regions.\n\nThe basic processes of DNA repair are highly conserved among both prokaryotes and eukaryotes and even among bacteriophages (viruses which infect bacteria); however, more complex organisms with more complex genomes have correspondingly more complex repair mechanisms. The ability of a large number of protein structural motifs to catalyze relevant chemical reactions has played a significant role in the elaboration of repair mechanisms during evolution. For an extremely detailed review of hypotheses relating to the evolution of DNA repair, see.\n\nThe fossil record indicates that single-cell life began to proliferate on the planet at some point during the Precambrian period, although exactly when recognizably modern life first emerged is unclear. Nucleic acids became the sole and universal means of encoding genetic information, requiring DNA repair mechanisms that in their basic form have been inherited by all extant life forms from their common ancestor. The emergence of Earth's oxygen-rich atmosphere (known as the \"oxygen catastrophe\") due to photosynthetic organisms, as well as the presence of potentially damaging free radicals in the cell due to oxidative phosphorylation, necessitated the evolution of DNA repair mechanisms that act specifically to counter the types of damage induced by oxidative stress.\n\nOn some occasions, DNA damage is not repaired, or is repaired by an error-prone mechanism that results in a change from the original sequence. When this occurs, mutations may propagate into the genomes of the cell's progeny. Should such an event occur in a germ line cell that will eventually produce a gamete, the mutation has the potential to be passed on to the organism's offspring. The rate of evolution in a particular species (or, in a particular gene) is a function of the rate of mutation. As a consequence, the rate and accuracy of DNA repair mechanisms have an influence over the process of evolutionary change. DNA damage protection and repair does not influence the rate of adaptation by gene regulation and by recombination and selection of alleles. On the other hand, DNA damage repair and protection does influence the rate of accumulation of irreparable, advantageous, code expanding, inheritable mutations, and slows down the evolutionary mechanism for expansion of the genome of organisms with new functionalities. The tension between evolvability and mutation repair and protection needs further investigation.\n\nA technology named clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (shortened to CRISPR-Cas9) was discovered in 2012. The new technology allows anyone with molecular biology training to alter the genes of any species with precision.<br>\nIt is cheaper, more efficient, and more precise than other technologies. With the help of CRISPR–Cas9, parts of a genome can be edited by scientists by removing, adding, or altering parts in a DNA sequence.\n\n"}
{"id": "32321229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32321229", "title": "Death and funeral of Otto von Habsburg", "text": "Death and funeral of Otto von Habsburg\n\nOn 4 July 2011, Otto von Habsburg, also known as Otto of Austria, former head of the House of Habsburg and Sovereign of the Order of the Golden Fleece (1922–2007) and former Crown Prince (1916–1918) and, by pretence, Emperor-King (from 1922), of Austria-Hungary—or formally, of Austria, Hungary and Bohemia, of Dalmatia, Croatia, Slavonia, Galicia, Lodomeria and Illyria, and of Jerusalem etc. etc.—died at 98 years of age.\n\nThe following day, a 13-day period of mourning started in several countries formerly part of Austria-Hungary. Otto was entombed in the Imperial Crypt under the Capuchin Church in Vienna on 16 July and his heart buried in Pannonhalma Archabbey in Hungary on 17 July. Multiple requiems were celebrated. Many foreign dignitaries—among them reigning or former monarchs King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden, Henri, Grand Duke of Luxembourg, King Michael I of Romania, Tsar Simeon II of Bulgaria, Hans-Adam II, Prince of Liechtenstein, and Fra' Matthew Festing—attended the Requiem Mass in Vienna's St. Stephen's Cathedral on 16 July, presided over by Cardinal Christoph Schönborn, which was followed by the entombment in the Imperial Crypt. Commemorations were also held in Bavaria.\n\nThis was the most recent burial of a royal Habsburg in the Imperial Crypt—following a centuries-old ceremony—where 145 other members of the House of Habsburg, among them many Holy Roman Emperors and Austrian Emperors, have been entombed since 1633.\n\nAround 1,000 invited guests and 100,000 members of the public attended the funeral in Vienna, which was broadcast live by Austrian Television. A funeral procession over one kilometer long brought Otto's coffin from St. Stephen's Cathedral to the Imperial Crypt. The ceremonies led to large parts of central Vienna being closed down for public traffic.\n\nThe funeral has been described as the \"last Emperor's funeral\" to take place in Vienna.\n\nThe eldest son of Charles I, the last Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary, and his wife, Zita of Bourbon-Parma, Otto was born as third in line to the thrones of Austria, Hungary, Croatia and Bohemia. With his father's ascent to the thrones in 1916, he was himself likely to become the Emperor. As his father never abdicated, Otto was considered by himself, his family and Austro-Hungarian legitimists to be the rightful Emperor-King. Forced to live in exile with his family after 1918, Otto was active on the Austrian and European political stage from the 1930s, as an early proponent of European integration and a fierce opponent of Nazism and communism. After the Second World War, he was Vice President (1957–1973) and President (1973–2004) of the International Paneuropean Union, and served as a Member of the European Parliament. He played a central role in the revolutions of 1989, as a co-initiator of the Pan-European Picnic. Later he was a strong supporter of the EU membership of central and eastern European countries.\n\nHe has been described as \"the last Emperor\" or \"the last Habsburg\".\n\n – European Commission President José Manuel Barroso said, \"with Otto von Habsburg, a great European has left us who gave an important impetus to the European project throughout his rich life. ... [His] commitment to Europe should set a political example for all of us, especially in difficult times.\" In his statement, Barroso pointed out that Otto had \"made a central contribution to the opening of the Iron Curtain and the peaceful reunification of our continent that had been divided for too long\".\n\n\nFormer Chancellor of Austria Wolfgang Schüssel said that Otto was \"a convinced European and paved the way for Austria's road to Europe\", and that he \"internalized like no other person the all-European idea and articulated it already at a time when there was still a dark shadow over the continent.\" Othmar Karas, leader of the European Parliament delegation of the Austrian People's Party, said that \"all of Europe is crying.\"\n\n\nHis funeral took place on 16 July 2011 in Vienna and on 17 July in Pannonhalma Archabbey, Hungary. A 13-day period of mourning started in several countries formerly part of Austria-Hungary on 5 July 2011, when the body of Archduke Otto was laid in repose in the Church of St. Ulrich near his home in Pöcking, Bavaria. The body was transferred by train to the Catholic pilgrimage basilica in Mariazell on 12 July, before being transferred by train to Vienna. Requiem Masses were celebrated in three countries, in Munich, Pöcking, Mariazell, Vienna, and Budapest. In accordance with the Habsburg tradition, his body and heart were buried separately. Otto was entombed in the Imperial Crypt (\"Kapuzinergruft\") together with his mother, wife and other family members. His heart was buried in Pannonhalma Archabbey in Hungary. Crown Prince Otto was educated by monks from Pannonhalma Benedictine College. He was exiled from Austria and Hungary in 1918.\n\nThe funeral has been described as a major event in Vienna's history; Cardinal Schönborn described it as \"a historic moment for Austria\", stating that it will be good for the country to \"think of this great Habsburger in prayer and gratitude\". Otto's mother, former Empress-Queen Zita's funeral in 1989, was attended by 40,000 people.\n\nOtto was buried with military honours. The funeral in Vienna was broadcast live by Austrian Television and the requiem was also screened on big screens at Stephansplatz. The funeral procession through Innere Stadt was over one kilometer long. Following the procession, Otto was entombed in the Imperial Crypt. A blessing from Pope Benedict XVI was read during the requiem.\n\nOtto was the penultimate person to be entombed in the Imperial Crypt, where 145 other members of his family have been entombed since 1633, because the Crypt is almost full.\n\nIn Bavaria, the ruling Christian Social Union of Bavaria organised the largest commemorations in the state since the death of its former Prime Minister Franz Josef Strauss; the commemorations included the celebration of two requiems and a reception at the Munich Residenz.\n\nOtto's coffin was draped with the Habsburg imperial flag in black-yellow and featuring the imperial-royal coats of arms of Austria and Hungary in addition to the Habsburg family coat of arms.\n\nOtto von Habsburg wrote that the funeral of Franz Joseph I of Austria in 1916 had been the most profound experience of his childhood; the 4-year old had attended the funeral dressed completely in white among all the adults dressed in black.\n\nOtto's funeral was organised by his sons, Karl von Habsburg, head of the House of Habsburg, and Georg von Habsburg. Karl von Habsburg revealed that the planning for the funeral had started 12 years earlier, and that Otto had not involved himself in it, except for expressing the wish for a ceremony in Hungary in line with the family tradition.\n\nThe Imperial Crypt of the Habsburg family is each year visited by around 200,000 people. The Crypt was constructed in accordance with the will of Empress Anna.\n\nThe sarcophagus of Otto's wife Regina, who was interred in her family crypt in the castle of Veste Heldburg in Germany in 2010, was transferred to Mariazell and then to the Imperial Crypt in Vienna at the same time. However, Regina's heart will remain in her family crypt in Veste Heldburg.\n\nThe security measures were reportedly massive. Large parts of central Vienna were closed down for public traffic. The small Austrian Green Party criticized the government for the extensive state involvement in the funeral, which made it indistinguishable from a state funeral in their opinion.\n\nThe funeral was said to have nourished Austria's important tourist industry; according to a study, the imperial Habsburg heritage is the main reason tourists visit the country.\n\nThe Malteser Hospitaldienst Austria (MHDA), an organisation which is subordinated to the Order of Malta, was responsible for providing medical assistance.\n\nSix requiems in four countries were celebrated.\n\nWhile Otto and Regina were lying in repose in the Capuchin Church, Christian, Jewish and Muslim prayers—reflecting the multicultural and multi-religious heritage of Austria-Hungary—were read on Thursday 14 July, by Bishop Stephan Turnovszky, Rabbi Steven Langnas, and Grand Mufti Mustafa Cerić, respectively. On Friday 15 July, the Jewish community organised a ceremony in the Stadttempel, Vienna's main synagogue.\n\nDuring the lying in repose on 15 July, guards in traditional uniform stood in honour on either side of the two coffins, draped in the imperial yellow-black flag. Thousands of people paid their respect, and visitors were able to write into books of condolence. In front of the coffins, a number of orders, honours and decorations that Otto received throughout his life were laid out on velvet cushions. They include the Order of the Golden Fleece, Grand Cross of the Order of Saint Stephen of Hungary, Grand Cross of the Order of Leopold, Order of the Most Holy Annunciation, Order of Saint Januarius, Order of Saint Hubert, Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour, Grand Cross of the Order of Merit, Sovereign Military Order of Malta Grand Cross Bailiff of Grace and Devotion, Grand Cross of the Order of Charles III, Grand Cross of the Order of St. Gregory the Great, and many others (for a list see here).\n\nA traditional ceremony during the funeral is when the procession of mourners arrives at the gates of the Capuchin Church, under which the Imperial Crypt lies, and the Herald knocks on the door. A Capuchin then asks \"who demands entry?\" The Herald responds with the name and title of the deceased. The Capuchin then responds \"we don't know him/her.\" The same procedure is repeated once. Only on the third attempt, when the Herald responds with \"a sinful, mortal human being\", are the gates opened and the dead Habsburg admitted into the Crypt. In 1989, Otto's mother, Zita, was first introduced with all her titles, and the second time introduced as \"Zita, Her Majesty the Empress and Queen\".\n\nUlrich-Walter Lipp, a friend of the family, was chosen to be the Herald in 2011. Otto was first introduced as \"Otto of Austria; former Crown Prince of Austria-Hungary; Prince Royal of Hungary and Bohemia, of Dalmatia, Croatia, Slavonia, Galicia, Lodomeria, and Illyria; Grand Duke of Tuscany and Cracow; Duke of Lorraine, of Salzburg, Styria, Carinthia, Carniola and Bukowina; Grand Prince of Transylvania, Margrave of Moravia; Duke of Silesia, Modena, Parma, Piacenza, Guastalla, Auschwitz and Zator, Teschen, Friuli, Dubrovnik and Zadar; Princely Count of Habsburg and Tyrol, of Kyburg, Gorizia and Gradisca; Prince of Trent and Brixen; Margrave of Upper and Lower Lusatia and Istria; Count of Hohenems, Feldkirch, Bregenz, Sonnenburg etc.; Lord of Trieste, Kotor and the Windic March, Grand Voivod of the Voivodeship of Serbia etc. etc.\" The traditional Habsburg claims to Jerusalem and Austria were omitted.\n\nThe second time he was introduced as \"Dr. Otto von Habsburg\" and a number of his civic achievements, notably as President of the Paneuropean Union and Member of the European Parliament, mentioned. \"Otto Habsburg-Lothringen\", the name Austrian authorities use when referring to him, was not used.\n\nThe third time he was introduced as \"Otto, a mortal, sinful human being!\"\n\nThe Capuchin opening the gates, finally exclaiming \"So he may come in\", was Father Gottfried Undesser, the custodian of the Imperial Crypt, born in 1933 and a Capuchin since 1951. It was also Father Gottfried who opened the gates for Empress-Queen Zita in 1989. The Capuchins have been in charge of building and maintaining the Imperial Crypt since 1622.\n\nOn Sunday 17 July 2011, Otto's heart was buried in the Benedictine Pannonhalma Archabbey, following a ceremony with vespers in Latin, and an ecumenical prayer. Archabbot Asztrik Várszegi, Reformed Bishop Gusztáv Bölcskei, Lutheran Bishop Tamás Fabinyi, and Chief Rabbi Zsolt Markovics participated, together with around hundred members of the House of Habsburg and Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén with his wife representing the Hungarian government. A silver urn containing his heart was surrounded by a wreath of flowers and leaves in the colours of the Hungarian flag—red, white and green. His sons Karl (Károly in Hungary) and Georg (György) finally carried the urn to the crypt, where it was buried under a marble slab.\n\nFather Albin, one of the monastery's monks, said that \"Hungary never expelled him personally, and he wanted to be buried in a country which still loves him.\"\n\nWith the burial of his heart, 12 days of commemoration and funeral ceremonies in several countries were concluded.\n\nHis heart urn lists his name and titles as:\n\nThe list is a selection of those whose participation is publicly known.\n\n House of Habsburg – Karl of Austria, Georg of Austria, Andrea of Austria, Monika of Austria, Michaela of Austria, Gabriela of Austria, Walburga of Austria, and others\n\n House of Wittelsbach – Prince Luitpold of Bavaria, and others\n\n\n\n House of Habsburg – Karl of Austria, Georg of Austria, Andrea of Austria, Monika of Austria, Michaela of Austria, Gabriela of Austria, Walburga of Austria, and others\n\n\n – Cardinal Christoph Schönborn participated as Pope Benedict XVI's personal representative; he will also preside over the requiem in Vienna\n\nArchbishops of central European and Balkan countries that once formed the Austro-Hungarian empire.\n\nMany dignitaries attended the funeral in Vienna on 16 July. In total, around 1,000 invited guests were present, among them many royals, nobles, heads of state and government representatives.\n\n House of Habsburg (former imperial-royal family of Austria-Hungary) – Karl of Austria, Georg of Austria, Andrea of Austria, Monika of Austria, Michaela of Austria, Gabriela of Austria, Walburga of Austria, Prince Lorenz of Belgium, Archduke of Austria-Este, and others\n\nBranches of the House of Bourbon\n\nBranches of the House of Hohenzollern\n\nBranches of the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha\n\n – Pope Benedict XVI appointed Cardinal Christoph Schönborn as his personal representative to the funeral celebrations. Schönborn presided over the requiem in Vienna, as Archbishop of Vienna.\n\n – Jerzy Buzek, Hans-Gert Pöttering, Alejo Vidal-Quadras.\n\n Teutonic Order - Hochmeister Bruno Platter\n\n House of Habsburg – Karl of Austria, Georg of Austria, Andrea of Austria, Monika of Austria, Michaela of Austria, Gabriela of Austria, Walburga of Austria, and others\n\n – President Pál Schmitt, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, and others\n\nMembers of the Diplomatic Corps and the Order of the Golden Fleece\n\nAround 300 journalists from Europe, America and Japan were accredited to cover the funeral in Vienna.\n\n – The requiem in the Munich Theatine Church on 11 July was broadcast live by Bayerischer Rundfunk (BR).\n\nOn average, the 6-hour live broadcast was watched by 413,000 people in Austria, reaching 557,000 at the most.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56217548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56217548", "title": "Eleanor Ardel Vietti", "text": "Eleanor Ardel Vietti\n\nEleanor Ardel Vietti (November 5, 1927 – disappeared May 30, 1962) was an American physician and missionary. She worked at the Buôn Ma Thuột leper colony where she was taken as a prisoner of war on May 30, 1962. She is currently the only American woman unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.\n\nVietti was born in Fort Worth, Texas and had a twin sister, Teresa J. Vietti and a younger brother, Victor. Vietti and her sister were both interested in science and medicine early on. The family lived in Bogota, Colombia until she was around fourteen. Vietti then contracted a bad strep infection and had surgery in Houston, Texas. Because of her illness, she became more religious, but also was a year behind her twin sister in school. Vietti attended San Jacinto High School (Houston, Texas). After graduation, Vietti attended Rice University and studied for a summer at Nyack Missionary College. Then she went to medical school at the University of Texas from 1950 to 1954. She interned at the South Shore Hospital in Chicago and then did a year's residency at the General Hospital of Wichita Falls, finishing in 1956.\n\nVietti entered missionary work around 1957 and the next year, went to Vietnam. She worked in Buôn Ma Thuột at a Christian and Missionary Alliance leper colony. There was a high rate of leprosy among the Montagnard people and Vietti both treated those with leprosy and worked to prevent the disease. She made house calls to people in the villages. In 1961, her sister Teresa visited the leper colony.\n\nIn April 1962, Vietti came back to the United States and visited with her family in Houston and St. Louis. She also took a course in cleft-palate repair in St. Louis. Her family wanted her to stay in the United States. The Department of State also warned Vietti about returning to the leper colony. However, Vietti chose to return to Vietnam.\n\nOn May 30, 1962, Vietti, Archie E. Mitchell and Daniel A. Gerber were kidnapped by 12 Viet Cong guerillas. Vietti's ankle was injured, so it was reported that she was not tied up by the soldiers and was limping. Vietti, Mitchell and Gerber were taken to the nurses' house, where the Viet Cong members lectured them, and also promised that Dr. Vietti would not be harmed. The three captives were taken away by car. The other nine Americans in the leper colony were left behind. It was suspected that she was taken in order to work in a Viet Cong hospital. A captured Viet Cong soldier told interrogators later in 1962 that Vietti was treating the Viet Cong wounded.\n\nIt was believed that she was being moved from village to village and was still believed alive in 1965. A report of a white woman asking for a Bible in a village came through in 1967. In 1968, the Christian and Missionary Alliance announced at their General Council that Vietti and the other 2 missionaries captured were still alive. Reports of seeing Vietti and the other two missionaries among the Montagnard villages continued into the 1970s. However, by 1991, she was listed as \"presumed dead\" on the Prisoner of War/Missing in Action list.\n\nIn 1998, Maggie O'Kane reported about Vietti and her capture on a radio special called \"The Only Woman Left Behind\". In the show, she discussed Vietti's capture, aired memories of families and friends and speculated on what had happened to Vietti. In 2008, Nyack College honored her and other alumni who were lost in Vietnam, adding their names to a special stone bench on campus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54145763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54145763", "title": "Elysium Space", "text": "Elysium Space\n\nElysium Space is a space burial company. Burial options the company offers are Earth-orbit and then reentry burnup, lunar burial, and deep-space burial beyond the Solar System. The company was the first to offer burial on the Moon.\n\nElysium Space was founded by Thomas Civeit in 2013.\n\nIn 2015, a launch aboard a USAF Super Strypi rocket failed to reach orbit. The remains will be reflown in the second launch. The remains were to have orbited for 2 years before reentering and going out in a blaze.\n\nIt will offer a service to launch the ashes of dead people into space aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket that will launch from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, United States. This rocket rideshare will launch ashes into a Sun-synchronous orbit about the Earth. The Earth orbiting ashes will eventually have its orbit decay and return to Earth as a shooting star.\n\nElysium Space launches the cremated remains aboard their Elysium Star space mausoleum satellites, a series of 1U cubesats. The Earth-orbiting satellites are designed to remain in space for 2 years before orbital decay brings them back to Earth as a shooting star, burning up in a blazing reentry.\n\nElysium Space plans to use Astrobotic's Griffin lunar lander for their lunar mausoleums.\n\nElysium Space is in the early stages of planning for deep-space burials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13141354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13141354", "title": "Eugenio Berríos", "text": "Eugenio Berríos\n\nEugenio Berríos Sagredo (November 14, 1947 – 1992) was a Chilean biochemist who worked for the DINA intelligence agency. \nBerríos was charged with carrying out \"Proyecto Andrea\" in which Pinochet ordered the production of sarin gas, a chemical weapon used by the DINA. Sarin gas leaves no trace and victims' deaths closely mimic heart attacks. Other biochemical weapons produced by Berríos included anthrax and botulism. Berríos also allegedly produced cocaine for Pinochet, who then sold it to Europe and the United States. In the late 1970s, at the height of Beagle Crisis between Chile and Argentina, Berríos is reported to have worked on a plan to poison the water supply of Buenos Aires. Wanted by the Chilean authorities for involvement in the Letelier case, he escaped to Uruguay in 1991, at the beginning of the Chilean transition to democracy, and what has been identified as his corpse was found in 1995 near Montevideo.\n\nKnown in the DINA under his alias \"Hermes\", for which he began to work in 1974, Berríos was connected to the creation of the explosive used for Orlando Letelier's car-bombing assassination in Washington, D.C. in 1976. In April 1976, Berríos synthesized sarin. He was also suspected, along with DINA agent Michael Townley, of the torture and assassination of the Spanish citizen Carmelo Soria. \n\nIn 1978, Townley, in a sworn but confidential declaration, stated that sarin gas was produced by the DINA under Berríos' direction. He added that it was used to assassinate the real state archives custodian Renato León Zenteno and the Chilean Army Corporal Manuel Leyton.\n\nFormer head of DINA Manuel Contreras declared to Chilean justice officials in 2005 that the CNI, successor of DINA, handed out monthly payments between 1978 and 1990 to the persons who had worked with Townley in Chile, all members of the far-right group \"Patria y Libertad\": Mariana Callejas (Townley's wife), Francisco Oyarzún, Gustavo Etchepare and Berríos. According to \"La Nación\", Berríos also worked with drug traffickers and Drug Enforcement Administration agents.\n\nQuestioned in March 2005 by Judge Alejandro Madrid about ex-Chilean Christian Democrat President Eduardo Frei Montalva's death, DINA agent Michael Townley acknowledged links between Colonia Dignidad, led by ex-Nazi Paul Schäfer, and DINA on one hand, and the Laboratorio de Guerra Bacteriológica del Ejército (Army Biological Warfare Laboratory) on the other hand. It is suspected that the toxin that killed Frei Montalva in a Santa Maria clinic in 1982 was created there. This new laboratory in Colonia Dignidad would have been, according to him, the continuation of the laboratory that the DINA had in Via Naranja de lo Curro, where he worked with Eugenio Berríos in the clandestine unit \"Quetropilla\". Townley would also have testified on biological experiments made upon the prisoners in Colonia Dignidad with the help of the two above-mentioned laboratories.\n\nOn October 26, 1991, a year before the \"terror archives\" were found in Paraguay, Eugenio Berríos was escorted from Chile to Uruguay by the Special Unity of the DINE (Army's Intelligence agency), in order to escape testifying before a Chilean court in the Letelier case and in the other case concerning the 1976 assassination of the Spanish diplomat and CEPAL civil servant Carmelo Soria. He had just been indicted by the magistrate Adolfo Bañados in charge of the Letelier case.\n\nThis is known as \"Operation Silencio\", which started in April 1991 in order to impede investigations by Chilean judges concerning crimes committed during Pinochet's dictatorship, with the spiriting away of Arturo Sanhueza Ross, linked to the murder of MIR leader Jecar Neghme in 1989. According to the Rettig Report, Jecar Neghme's death was carried out by Chilean intelligence agents. In September 1991, Carlos Herrera Jiménez, who killed trade-unionist Tucapel Jiménez, flew away, before Berríos who followed in October 1991. Berríos then used four different passports, Argentinian, Uruguayan, Paraguayan and Brazilian, lifting concerns about Operation Condor still being in place. In Uruguay, he was protected by members of the Chilean and Uruguayan military intelligence as part of \"La cofradia\", alleged to be the direct heir of Operation Condor. \n\nIn Uruguay, Berrios was hidden in the house of the Uruguayan Colonel Eduardo Radaelli, using the alias of \"Tulio Orellana\". Berríos, however, escaped from Radaelli's home and presented himself on 15 November 1992 to a local police office in order to claim he had been kidnapped. Uruguayan military officers Tomas Casella and Eduardo Radaelli then went to the police office to request the police to hand over Berríos, which was done. He was then never seen again.\n\nIn February 1993, Pinochet travelled to Uruguay, and the Uruguayan Tomas Casella was appointed as his aide-de-camp. Casella, Radaelli and Washington Sarli (another Uruguayan military officer) then travelled, the same year, to Chile, to attend intelligence courses, although the courses were then cancelled (according to Casella, because some countries' intelligence officers could not attend) and they were invited to pass some days, with costs paid, in the Termas de Puyehue. In a 2007 interview, Casella stated that he had first entered into contact with Berríos in March 1992 under the requests of a Chilean intelligence officer, and that he had immediately informed General Mario Aguerrondo, then head of the SID Uruguayan military intelligence agency (now retired), who allegedly ordered him to remain in contact with the Chileans.\n\nIn June 1993, an anonymous letter sent to various Uruguayan deputies denounced Berríos' presence in the country, leading them to request of President Luis Alberto Lacalle's government immediate investigations. Lacalle immediately, on June 6, 1993, dismissed the police chief of Canelones, Ramón Rivas, on charges of not having informed him of what had occurred. Three days later official investigations were initiated concerning the Berríos case. On June 9, 1993, 14 Army Generals met with the Minister of Defence Mariano Brito, and two days later, General Mario Aguerrondo was dismissed.\n\nFinally, a corpse, identified by the Uruguayan justice as that of Berrios, was found in April 1995 in a beach of El Pinar, near Montevideo, with two gunshots in the back of the neck, his murderers having tried to make the identification of his body impossible. However, forensic dentistry immediately led to his identification as Berríos. Furthermore, DNA fingerprinting was also done several years later.\n\nAccording to the daughter of Carmelo Soria, the Spanish diplomat assassinated in 1976, Chilean Eduardo Aldunate Hermann, second-in-command of the MINUSTAH United Nations force in Haiti, was also involved in the assassination of Eugenio Berríos.\n\nThree Uruguayan military officers (Tomas Casella, Washington Sarli and Eduardo Radaelli) have been extradited in April 2006 to Chile and were detained there, before being released on bail in September 2006. In October 2006, the Court of Appeal of Santiago stripped Pinochet's parliamentary immunity (who was, in 1992, head of the Chilean military), opening up the way for his judgment concerning the homicide of Berríos. Furthermore, the former directors of the DINE, Hernán Ramírez Rurange and Eugenio Covarrubias, have been charged of obstruction to justice in this case. Ramírez Rurange, several other Chilean militaries and one civilian, and the three Uruguayan officers have also been charged of sequestration, while Eugenio Covarrubias was charged with sequestration and homicide. Emilio Rojas Gómez, the former Chilean cultural attaché in Montevideo, was also charged with obstruction of justice.\n\nOn August 11, 2015, all 14 defendants were found guilty by the Supreme Court and sentenced to between five and twenty years in prison. Hernán Ramírez Rurange, sentenced to twenty years, shot and killed himself two days later.\n\nIn July 2006, after having denounced Augusto Pinochet's involvement in the cocaine trade, former DINA director Manuel Contreras asserted in a judicial document handed to Judge Claudio Pavez, presiding over the investigation concerning the 1992 assassination of Colonel Gerardo Huber, that Berríos was in fact alive and now worked for the DEA. Contreras' lawyer, Fidel Reyes, alleged that the corpse discovered in El Pinar belonged in reality to a foreigner, and that Berríos allegedly had in 2004 attended the funeral, in Chile, of one of his close relative. According to Contreras' deposition, the cocaine (which was \"black cocaine\" especially made to be undetectable) was produced by Berríos in a military installation in Talagante, and both Pinochet's son, Marco Antonio Pinochet, and the businessman Edgardo Bathich were involved in the drug trade. The money from the trade was allegedly directly put in Pinochet's bank accounts abroad.\n\nManuel Contreras' allegations concerning Berríos' alleged survival have been flatly denied by the Uruguayan judge in charge of investigating his assassination, who claims that she is \"99% sure\" of the identification of the corpse found in 1995, and added that DNA analysis had been made a few years later.\n\nThe Uruguayan film director Esteban Schroeder produced a movie, \"Matar a todos\", loosely based on Berríos' murder. The movie was adapted from the book \"99 por ciento asesinado\" written by the Uruguayan writer Pablo Vierci, and was presented in the San Sebastián International Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "875795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875795", "title": "Fortunate Isles", "text": "Fortunate Isles\n\nThe Fortunate Isles or Isles of the Blessed (, \"makárōn nêsoi\") were semi-legendary islands in the Atlantic Ocean, variously treated as a simple geographical location and as a winterless earthly paradise inhabited by the heroes of Greek mythology. The related idea of Brasil and other islands in Celtic mythology are sometimes conflated with the Greek sense of islands in the western Mediterranean: Sicily, the Aeolian Islands, the Aegadian Islands or other smaller islands of Sicily. Later on the islands were said to lie in the Western Ocean near the encircling River Oceanus; Madeira, the Canary Islands, the Azores, Cape Verde, Bermuda, and the Lesser Antilles have sometimes been cited as possible matches.\n\nAccording to Greek mythology, the islands were reserved for those who had chosen to be reincarnated thrice, and managed to be judged as especially pure enough to gain entrance to the Elysian Fields all three times. A feature of the fortunate islands is the connection with the god Cronus; the cult of Cronus had spread and connected to Sicily, in particular in the area near Agrigento where it was revered and in some areas associated with the cult of the Phoenician god Baal.\n\nFlavius Philostratus' \"Life of Apollonius of Tyana\" (v.2) says, \"And they also say that the Islands of the Blessed are to be fixed by the limits of Libya where they rise towards the uninhabited promontory.\" In this geography Libya was considered to extend westwards through Mauretania \"as far as the mouth of the river Salex, some nine hundred stadia, and beyond that point a further distance which no one can compute, because when you have passed this river Libya is a desert which no longer supports a population\".\n\nPlutarch, who refers to the \"fortunate isles\" several times in his writings, locates them firmly in the Atlantic in his \"vita\" of Sertorius. Sertorius, when struggling against a chaotic civil war in the closing years of the Roman Republic, had tidings from mariners of certain islands a few days' sail from Hispania:\nIt was from these men that Sertorius learned facts so beguiling that he made it his life's ambition to find the islands and retire there.\nPliny the Elder's \"Natural History\" adds to the obligate description—that they \"abound in fruit and birds of every kind\"—the unexpected detail \"These islands, however, are greatly annoyed by the putrefying bodies of monsters, which are constantly thrown up by the sea\".\n\nThe Isles are mentioned in Book II of \"A True History\" by the Greek satirist Lucian of Samosata. The author makes fun of the heroes residing there by giving an account of their petty squabbles as presented to the court of the magistrate, Rhadamanthus. He goes on to describe other observations of how the residents occupy their time, using every opportunity to satirise both contemporary life and Greek mythology.\n\nPtolemy used these islands as the reference for the measurement of geographical longitude and they continued to play the role of defining the prime meridian through the Middle Ages. Modern geography names these islands as Macaronesia.\n\nLucio Russo, in \"L'America dimenticata\", puts forward the bold hypothesis (supported by means of statistical methods) that the Fortunate Isles were actually the Lesser Antilles and that Hipparchus knew their longitude with remarkable precision.\n\n"}
{"id": "39494635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39494635", "title": "Gallop &amp; Ride", "text": "Gallop &amp; Ride\n\nGallop and Ride is a video game developed by Austrian studio Sproing Interactive Media GmbH and released by THQ on November 20, 2008 for the Wii.\n\nIn \"Gallop and Ride\", you play as a boy or girl who works at his or her grandfather's ranch known as the Old Mill Ranch. Grandfather gave his grandchild the ranch after him and asked to put it back up to its formal glory. So, in the game, the main objective is to renovate all facilities back up for the guests and clients visiting. The player can choose from a wide variety of outfits. But, can only choose a small portion in the beginning of the game. The player has the option to use to game controls for riding: gesture or control stick. Both are the same as for games such as . In gesture, it is somewhat similar towards real-life, with all Wii Remote movement, and in control stick, the player uses the Nunchunk for movement, and clicks on buttons on the Wii Remote for speeding up or slowing down.\n\nIn the game, you are able to do many things. You can groom your horse using brushes or a hose. You can also clean your horse's hooves using a pick and a brush. You are able to cure your horses if they get sick, or call in a veterinarian. You can breed your horses as well. You can train foals. You can feed your horses hay, oats and barley, or pellets. You can have several types of blankets and saddles for your horse. You can take it out to ride in the fields, woods, or mountains. You can train your horse in order to go through competitions. You can also have guests to stay overnight in a sort-of-like hotel and have them ride your horses. You can also massage your horses in a therapy center or put them inside a paddock to reduce stress. You can clean out the stalls in the stable. You can pick up carrots in your garden and use them for tidbits or for foal training. You can also read books that allow you to higher advance your facilities.\n\nYou can choose from 3 breeds: Friesan, Hanoverian, and Andalusian; from 7 colors: black, white, gray, bay, red, cream, and palomino; and from 6 patterns: black hair (mane and tail), solid, pinto, dapple, socks, and stripes. You can braid your horse's mane and name your horse. The gender is uncertain. The player can be either gender and any name and can choose from a wide range of outfits that can be purchased. Though the names can only have so many characters in them.\n\n"}
{"id": "9210345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9210345", "title": "Gaussian adaptation", "text": "Gaussian adaptation\n\nGaussian adaptation (GA) (also referred to as normal or natural adaptation and sometimes abbreviated as NA) is an evolutionary algorithm designed for the maximization of manufacturing yield due to statistical deviation of component values of signal processing systems. In short, GA is a stochastic adaptive process where a number of samples of an \"n\"-dimensional vector \"x\"[\"x\" = (\"x\", \"x\", ..., \"x\")] are taken from a multivariate Gaussian distribution, \"N\"(\"m\", \"M\"), having mean \"m\" and moment matrix \"M\". The samples are tested for fail or pass. The first- and second-order moments of the Gaussian restricted to the pass samples are \"m*\" and \"M*\".\n\nThe outcome of \"x\" as a pass sample is determined by a function \"s\"(\"x\"), 0 < \"s\"(\"x\") < \"q\" ≤ 1, such that \"s\"(\"x\") is the probability that x will be selected as a pass sample. The average probability of finding pass samples (yield) is\n\nThen the theorem of GA states:\n\nFor any \"s\"(\"x\") and for any value of \"P \"< \"q\", there always exist a Gaussian p. d. f. [ probability density function ] that is adapted for maximum dispersion. The necessary conditions for a local optimum are \"m\" = \"m\"* and \"M\" proportional to \"M\"*. The dual problem is also solved: \"P\" is maximized while keeping the dispersion constant (Kjellström, 1991).\nProofs of the theorem may be found in the papers by Kjellström, 1970, and Kjellström & Taxén, 1981.\n\nSince dispersion is defined as the exponential of entropy/disorder/average information it immediately follows that the theorem is valid also for those concepts. Altogether, this means that Gaussian adaptation may carry out a simultaneous maximisation of yield and average information (without any need for the yield or the average information to be defined as criterion functions).\n\nThe theorem is valid for all regions of acceptability and all Gaussian distributions. It may be used by cyclic repetition of random variation and selection (like the natural evolution). In every cycle a sufficiently large number of Gaussian distributed points are sampled and tested for membership in the region of acceptability. The centre of gravity of the Gaussian, \"m\", is then moved to the centre of gravity of the approved (selected) points, \"m\"*. Thus, the process converges to a state of equilibrium fulfilling the theorem. A solution is always approximate because the centre of gravity is always determined for a limited number of points.\n\nIt was used for the first time in 1969 as a pure optimization algorithm making the regions of acceptability smaller and smaller (in analogy to simulated annealing, Kirkpatrick 1983). Since 1970 it has been used for both ordinary optimization and yield maximization.\n\nIt has also been compared to the natural evolution of populations of living organisms. In this case \"s\"(\"x\") is the probability that the individual having an array \"x\" of phenotypes will survive by giving offspring to the next generation; a definition of individual fitness given by Hartl 1981. The yield, \"P\", is replaced by the mean fitness determined as a mean over the set of individuals in a large population.\n\nPhenotypes are often Gaussian distributed in a large population and a necessary condition for the natural evolution to be able to fulfill the theorem of Gaussian adaptation, with respect to all Gaussian quantitative characters, is that it may push the centre of gravity of the Gaussian to the centre of gravity of the selected individuals. This may be accomplished by the Hardy–Weinberg law. This is possible because the theorem of Gaussian adaptation is valid for any region of acceptability independent of the structure (Kjellström, 1996).\n\nIn this case the rules of genetic variation such as crossover, inversion, transposition etcetera may be seen as random number generators for the phenotypes. So, in this sense Gaussian adaptation may be seen as a genetic algorithm.\n\nMean fitness may be calculated provided that the distribution of parameters and the structure of the landscape is known. The real landscape is not known, but figure below shows a fictitious profile (blue) of a landscape along a line (x) in a room spanned by such parameters. The red curve is the mean based on the red bell curve at the bottom of figure. It is obtained by letting the bell curve slide along the \"x\"-axis, calculating the mean at every location. As can be seen, small peaks and pits are smoothed out. Thus, if evolution is started at A with a relatively small variance (the red bell curve), then climbing will take place on the red curve. The process may get stuck for millions of years at B or C, as long as the hollows to the right of these points remain, and the mutation rate is too small.\n\nIf the mutation rate is sufficiently high, the disorder or variance may increase and the parameter(s) may become distributed like the green bell curve. Then the climbing will take place on the green curve, which is even more smoothed out. Because the hollows to the right of B and C have now disappeared, the process may continue up to the peaks at D. But of course the landscape puts a limit on the disorder or variability. Besides — dependent on the landscape — the process may become very jerky, and if the ratio between the time spent by the process at a local peak and the time of transition to the next peak is very high, it may as well look like a punctuated equilibrium as suggested by Gould (see Ridley).\n\nThus far the theory only considers mean values of continuous distributions corresponding to an infinite number of individuals. In reality however, the number of individuals is always limited, which gives rise to an uncertainty in the estimation of \"m\" and \"M\" (the moment matrix of the Gaussian). And this may also affect the efficiency of the process. Unfortunately very little is known about this, at least theoretically.\n\nThe implementation of normal adaptation on a computer is a fairly simple task. The adaptation of m may be done by one sample (individual) at a time, for example\n\nwhere \"x\" is a pass sample, and \"a\" < 1 a suitable constant so that the inverse of a represents the number of individuals in the population.\n\n\"M\" may in principle be updated after every step \"y\" leading to a feasible point\n\nwhere \"y\" is the transpose of \"y\" and \"b\" « 1 is another suitable constant. In order to guarantee a suitable increase of average information, \"y\" should be normally distributed with moment matrix \"μ\"\"M\", where the scalar \"μ\" > 1 is used to increase average information (information entropy, disorder, diversity) at a suitable rate. But \"M\" will never be used in the calculations. Instead we use the matrix \"W\" defined by \"WW\" = \"M\".\n\nThus, we have \"y\" = \"Wg\", where \"g\" is normally distributed with the moment matrix \"μU\", and \"U\" is the unit matrix. \"W\" and \"W\" may be updated by the formulas\n\nbecause multiplication gives\n\nwhere terms including \"b\" have been neglected. Thus, \"M\" will be indirectly adapted with good approximation. In practice it will suffice to update \"W\" only\n\nThis is the formula used in a simple 2-dimensional model of a brain satisfying the Hebbian rule of associative learning; see the next section (Kjellström, 1996 and 1999).\n\nThe figure below illustrates the effect of increased average information in a Gaussian p.d.f. used to climb a mountain Crest (the two lines represent the contour line). Both the red and green cluster have equal mean fitness, about 65%, but the green cluster has a much higher average information making the green process much more efficient. The effect of this adaptation is not very salient in a 2-dimensional case, but in a high-dimensional case, the efficiency of the search process may be increased by many orders of magnitude.\n\nIn the brain the evolution of DNA-messages is supposed to be replaced by an evolution of signal patterns and the phenotypic landscape is replaced by a mental landscape, the complexity of which will hardly be second to the former. The metaphor with the mental landscape is based on the assumption that certain signal patterns give rise to a better well-being or performance. For instance, the control of a group of muscles leads to a better pronunciation of a word or performance of a piece of music.\n\nIn this simple model it is assumed that the brain consists of interconnected components that may add, multiply and delay signal values.\nThis is a basis of the theory of digital filters and neural networks consisting of components that may add, multiply and delay signalvalues and also of many brain models, Levine 1991.\n\nIn the figure below the brain stem is supposed to deliver Gaussian distributed signal patterns. This may be possible since certain neurons fire at random (Kandel et al.). The stem also constitutes a disordered structure surrounded by more ordered shells (Bergström, 1969), and according to the central limit theorem the sum of signals from many neurons may be Gaussian distributed. The triangular boxes represent synapses and the boxes with the + sign are cell kernels.\n\nIn the cortex signals are supposed to be tested for feasibility. When a signal is accepted the contact areas in the synapses are updated according to the formulas below in agreement with the Hebbian theory. The figure shows a 2-dimensional computer simulation of Gaussian adaptation according to the last formula in the preceding section.\n\n\"m\" and \"W\" are updated according to:\n\nAs can be seen this is very much like a small brain ruled by the theory of Hebbian learning (Kjellström, 1996, 1999 and 2002).\n\nGaussian adaptation as an evolutionary model of the brain obeying the Hebbian theory of associative learning offers an alternative view of free will due to the ability of the process to maximize the mean fitness of signal patterns in the brain by climbing a mental landscape in analogy with phenotypic evolution.\n\nSuch a random process gives us lots of freedom of choice, but hardly any will. An illusion of will may, however, emanate from the ability of the process to maximize mean fitness, making the process goal seeking. I. e., it prefers higher peaks in the landscape prior to lower, or better alternatives prior to worse. In this way an illusive will may appear. A similar view has been given by Zohar 1990. See also Kjellström 1999.\n\nThe efficiency of Gaussian adaptation relies on the theory of information due to Claude E. Shannon (see information content). When an event occurs with probability \"P\", then the information −log(\"P\") may be achieved. For instance, if the mean fitness is \"P\", the information gained for each individual selected for survival will be −log(\"P\") – on the average - and the work/time needed to get the information is proportional to 1/\"P\". Thus, if efficiency, E, is defined as information divided by the work/time needed to get it we have:\n\nThis function attains its maximum when \"P\" = 1/\"e\" = 0.37. The same result has been obtained by Gaines with a different method.\n\n\"E\" = 0 if \"P\" = 0, for a process with infinite mutation rate, and if \"P\" = 1, for a process with mutation rate = 0 (provided that the process is alive).\nThis measure of efficiency is valid for a large class of random search processes provided that certain conditions are at hand.\n\n1 The search should be statistically independent and equally efficient in different parameter directions. This condition may be approximately fulfilled when the moment matrix of the Gaussian has been adapted for maximum average information to some region of acceptability, because linear transformations of the whole process do not affect efficiency.\n\n2 All individuals have equal cost and the derivative at \"P\" = 1 is < 0.\n\nThen, the following theorem may be proved:\n\nAll measures of efficiency, that satisfy the conditions above, are asymptotically proportional to –\"P\" log(\"P/q\") when the number of dimensions increases, and are maximized by \"P\" = \"q\" exp(-1) (Kjellström, 1996 and 1999).\nThe figure above shows a possible efficiency function for a random search process such as Gaussian adaptation. To the left the process is most chaotic when \"P\" = 0, while there is perfect order to the right where \"P\" = 1.\n\nIn an example by Rechenberg, 1971, 1973, a random walk is pushed thru a corridor maximizing the parameter \"x\". In this case the region of acceptability is defined as a (\"n\" − 1)-dimensional interval in the parameters \"x\", \"x\", ..., \"x\", but a \"x\"-value below the last accepted will never be accepted. Since \"P\" can never exceed 0.5 in this case, the maximum speed towards higher \"x\"-values is reached for \"P\" = 0.5/\"e\" = 0.18, in agreement with the findings of Rechenberg.\n\nA point of view that also may be of interest in this context is that no definition of information (other than that sampled points inside some region of acceptability gives information about the extension of the region) is needed for the proof of the theorem. Then, because, the formula may be interpreted as information divided by the work needed to get the information, this is also an indication that −log(\"P\") is a good candidate for being a measure of information.\n\nGaussian adaptation has also been used for other purposes as for instance shadow removal by \"The Stauffer-Grimson algorithm\" which is equivalent to Gaussian adaptation as used in the section \"Computer simulation of Gaussian adaptation\" above. In both cases the maximum likelihood method is used for estimation of mean values by adaptation at one sample at a time.\n\nBut there are differences. In the Stauffer-Grimson case the information is not used for the control of a random number generator for centering, maximization of mean fitness, average information or manufacturing yield. The adaptation of the moment matrix also differs very much as compared to \"the evolution in the brain\" above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32706791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32706791", "title": "Genome instability", "text": "Genome instability\n\nGenome instability (also genetic instability or genomic instability) refers to a high frequency of mutations within the genome of a cellular lineage. These mutations can include changes in nucleic acid sequences, chromosomal rearrangements or aneuploidy. Genome instability does occur in bacteria. In multicellular organisms genome instability is central to carcinogenesis, and in humans it is also a factor in some neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or the neuromuscular disease myotonic dystrophy.\n\nThe sources of genome instability have only recently begun to be elucidated. A high frequency of externally caused DNA damage can be one source of genome instability since DNA damages can cause inaccurate translesion synthesis past the damages or errors in repair, leading to mutation. Another source of genome instability may be epigenetic or mutational reductions in expression of DNA repair genes. Because endogenous (metabolically-caused) DNA damage is very frequent, occurring on average more than 60,000 times a day in the genomes of human cells, any reduced DNA repair is likely an important source of genome instability.\n\nUsually, all cells in an individual in a given species (plant or animal) show a constant number of chromosomes, which constitute what is known as the karyotype defining this species (see also List of number of chromosomes of various organisms), although some species present a very high karyotypic variability. In humans, mutations that would change an amino acid within the protein coding region of the genome occur at an average of only 0.35 per generation (less than one mutated protein per generation).\n\nSometimes, in a species with a stable karyotype, random variations that modify the normal number of chromosomes may be observed. In other cases, there are structural alterations (chromosomal translocations, deletions ...) that modify the standard chromosomal complement. In these cases, it is indicated that the affected organism presents genome instability (also \"genetic instability\", or even \"chromosomic instability\"). The process of genome instability often leads to a situation of aneuploidy, in which the cells present a chromosomic number that is either higher or lower than the normal complement for the species.\n\nIn the cell cycle, DNA is usually most vulnerable during replication. The replisome must be able to navigate obstacles such as tightly wound chromatin with bound proteins, single and double stranded breaks which can lead to the stalling of the replication fork. Each protein or enzyme in the replisome must perform its function well to result in a perfect copy of DNA. Mutations of proteins such as DNA polymerase, ligase, can lead to impairment of replication and lead to spontaneous chromosomal exchanges. Proteins such as Tel1, Mec1 (ATR, ATM in humans) can detect single and double-stranded breaks and recruit factors such as Rmr3 helicase to stabilize the replication fork in order to prevent its collapse. Mutations in Tel1, Mec1, and Rmr3 helicase result in a significant increase of chromosomal recombination. ATR responds specifically to stalled replication forks and single-stranded breaks resulting from UV damage while ATM responds directly to double-stranded breaks. These proteins also prevent progression into mitosis by inhibiting the firing of late replication origins until the DNA breaks are fixed by phosphorylating CHK1, CHK2 which results in a signaling cascade arresting the cell in S-phase. For single stranded breaks, replication occurs until the location of the break, then the other strand is nicked to form a double stranded break, which can then be repaired by Break Induced Replication or homologous recombination using the sister chromatid as an error-free template. In addition to S-phase checkpoints, G1 and G2 checkpoints exist to check for transient DNA damage which could be caused by mutagens such as UV damage. An example is the Saccharomyces pombe gene rad9 which arrests the cells in late S/G2 phase in the presence of DNA damage caused by radiation. The yeast cells with defective rad9 failed to arrest following radiation, continued cell division and died rapidly while the cells with wild-type rad9 successfully arrested in late S/G2 phase and remained viable. The cells that arrested were able to survive due to the increased time in S/G2 phase allowing for DNA repair enzymes to function fully.\n\nThere are hotspots in the genome where DNA sequences are prone to gaps and breaks after inhibition of DNA synthesis such as in the aforementioned checkpoint arrest. These sites are called fragile sites, and can occur commonly as naturally present in most mammalian genomes or occur rarely as a result of mutations, such as DNA-repeat expansion. Rare fragile sites can lead to genetic disease such as fragile X mental retardation syndrome, myotonic dystrophy, Friedrich’s ataxia, and Huntington’s disease, most of which are caused by expansion of repeats at the DNA, RNA, or protein level. Although, seemingly harmful, these common fragile sites are conserved all the way to yeast and bacteria. These ubiquitous sites are characterized by trinucleotide repeats, most commonly CGG, CAG, GAA, and GCN. These trinucleotide repeats can form into hairpins, leading to difficulty of replication. Under replication stress, such as defective machinery or further DNA damage, DNA breaks and gaps can form at these fragile sites. Using a sister chromatid as repair is not a fool-proof backup as the surrounding DNA information of the n and n+1 repeat is virtually the same, leading to copy number variation. For example, the 16th copy of CGG might be mapped to the 13th copy of CGG in the sister chromatid since the surrounding DNA is both CGGCGGCGG…, leading to 3 extra copies of CGG in the final DNA sequence.\n\nIn both E. coli and Saccromyces pombe, transcription sites tend to have higher recombination and mutation rates. The coding or non-transcribed strand accumulates more mutations than the template strand. This is due to the fact that the coding strand is single-stranded during transcription, which is chemically more unstable than double-stranded DNA. During elongation of transcription, supercoiling can occur behind an elongating RNA polymerase, leading to single-stranded breaks. When the coding strand is single-stranded, it can also hybridize with itself, creating DNA secondary structures that can compromise replication. In E. coli, when attempting to transcribe GAA triplets such as those found in Friedrich’s ataxia, the resulting RNA and template strand can form mismatched loops between different repeats, leading the complementary segment in the coding-strand available to form its own loops which impede replication. Furthermore, replication of DNA and transcription of DNA are not temporally independent; they can occur at the same time and lead to collisions between the replication fork and RNA polymerase complex. In S. cerevisiae, Rrm3 helicase is found at highly transcribed genes in the yeast genome, which is recruited to stabilize a stalling replication fork as described above. This suggests that transcription is an obstacle to replication, which can lead to increased stress in the chromatin spanning the short distance between the unwound replication fork and transcription start site, potentially causing single-stranded DNA breaks. In yeast, proteins act as barriers at the 3’ of the transcription unit to prevent further travel of the DNA replication fork.\n\nIn some portions of the genome, variability is essential to survival. One such locale is the Ig genes. In a pre-B cell, the region consists of all V, D, and J segments. During development of the B cell, a specific V, D, and J segment is chosen to be spliced together to form the final gene, which is catalyzed by RAG1 and RAG2 recombinases. Activation-Induced Cytidine Deaminase (AID) then converts cytidine into uracil. Uracil normally does not exist in DNA, and thus the base is excised and the nick is converted into a double-stranded break which is repaired by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). This procedure is very error-prone and leads to somatic hypermutation. This genomic instability is crucial in ensuring mammalian survival against infection. V, D, J recombination can ensure millions of unique B-cell receptors; however, random repair by NHEJ introduces variation which can create a receptor that can bind with higher affinity to antigens.\n\nOf about 200 neurological and neuromuscular disorders, 15 have a clear link to an inherited or acquired defect in one of the DNA repair pathways or excessive genotoxic oxidative stress. Five of them (xeroderma pigmentosum, Cockayne's syndrome, trichothiodystrophy, Down's syndrome, and triple-A syndrome) have a defect in the DNA nucleotide excision repair pathway. Six (spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy-1, Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Down's syndrome and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) seem to result from increased oxidative stress, and the inability of the base excision repair pathway to handle the damage to DNA that this causes. Four of them (Huntington's disease, various spinocerebellar ataxias, Friedreich’s ataxia and myotonic dystrophy types 1 and 2) often have an unusual expansion of repeat sequences in DNA, likely attributable to genome instability. Four (ataxia-telangiectasia, ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder, Nijmegen breakage syndrome and Alzheimer's disease) are defective in genes involved in repairing DNA double-strand breaks. Overall, it seems that oxidative stress is a major cause of genomic instability in the brain. A particular neurological disease arises when a pathway that normally prevents oxidative stress is deficient, or a DNA repair pathway that normally repairs damage caused by oxidative stress is deficient.\n\nIn cancer, genome instability can occur prior to or as a consequence of transformation. Genome instability can refer to the accumulation of extra copies of DNA or chromosomes, chromosomal translocations, chromosomal inversions, chromosome deletions, single-strand breaks in DNA, double-strand breaks in DNA, the intercalation of foreign substances into the DNA double helix, or any abnormal changes in DNA tertiary structure that can cause either the loss of DNA, or the misexpression of genes. Situations of genome instability (as well as aneuploidy) are common in cancer cells, and they are considered a \"hallmark\" for these cells. The unpredictable nature of these events are also a main contributor to the heterogeneity observed among tumour cells.\n\nIt is currently accepted that sporadic tumors (non-familial ones) are originated due to the accumulation of several genetic errors. An average cancer of the breast or colon can have about 60 to 70 protein altering mutations, of which about 3 or 4 may be \"driver\" mutations, and the remaining ones may be \"passenger\" mutations Any genetic or epigenetic lesion increasing the mutation rate will have as a consequence an increase in the acquisition of new mutations, increasing then the probability to develop a tumor. During the process of tumorogenesis, it is known that diploid cells acquire mutations in genes responsible for maintaining genome integrity (\"caretaker genes\"), as well as in genes that are directly controlling cellular proliferation (\"gatekeeper genes\"). Genetic instability can originate due to deficiencies in DNA repair, or due to loss or gain of chromosomes, or due to large scale chromosomal reorganizations. Losing genetic stability will favour tumor development, because it favours the generation of mutants that can be selected by the environment.\n\nThe tumor microenvironment has an inhibitory effect on DNA repair pathways contributing to genomic instability, which promotes tumor survival, proliferation, and malignant transformation.\n\nThe protein coding regions of the human genome, collectively called the exome, constitutes only 1.5% of the total genome. As pointed out above, ordinarily there are only an average of 0.35 mutations in the exome per generation (parent to child) in humans. In the entire genome (including non-protein coding regions) there are only about 70 new mutations per generation in humans.\n\nThe likely major underlying cause of mutations in cancer is DNA damage. For example, in the case of lung cancer, DNA damage is caused by agents in exogenous genotoxic tobacco smoke (e.g. acrolein, formaldehyde, acrylonitrile, 1,3-butadiene, acetaldehyde, ethylene oxide and isoprene). Endogenous (metabolically-caused) DNA damage is also very frequent, occurring on average more than 60,000 times a day in the genomes of human cells (see DNA damage (naturally occurring)). Externally and endogenously caused damages may be converted into mutations by inaccurate translesion synthesis or inaccurate DNA repair (e.g. by non-homologous end joining). In addition, DNA damages can also give rise to epigenetic alterations during DNA repair. Both mutations and epigenetic alterations (epimutations) can contribute to progression to cancer.\n\nAs noted above, about 3 or 4 driver mutations and 60 passenger mutations occur in the exome (protein coding region) of a cancer. However, a much larger number of mutations occur in the non-protein-coding regions of DNA. The average number of DNA sequence mutations in the entire genome of a breast cancer tissue sample is about 20,000. In an average melanoma tissue sample (where melanomas have a higher exome mutation frequency) the total number of DNA sequence mutations is about 80,000.\n\nThe high frequency of mutations in the total genome within cancers suggests that, often, an early carcinogenic alteration may be a deficiency in DNA repair. Mutation rates substantially increase (sometimes by 100-fold) in cells defective in DNA mismatch repair or in homologous recombinational DNA repair. Also, chromosomal rearrangements and aneuploidy increase in humans defective in DNA repair gene BLM.\n\nA deficiency in DNA repair, itself, can allow DNA damages to accumulate, and error-prone translesion synthesis past some of those damages may give rise to mutations. In addition, faulty repair of these accumulated DNA damages may give rise to epigenetic alterations or epimutations. While a mutation or epimutation in a DNA repair gene, itself, would not confer a selective advantage, such a repair defect may be carried along as a passenger in a cell when the cell acquires an additional mutation/epimutation that does provide a proliferative advantage. Such cells, with both proliferative advantages and one or more DNA repair defects (causing a very high mutation rate), likely give rise to the 20,000 to 80,000 total genome mutations frequently seen in cancers.\n\nIn somatic cells, deficiencies in DNA repair sometimes arise by mutations in DNA repair genes, but much more often are due to epigenetic reductions in expression of DNA repair genes. Thus, in a sequence of 113 colorectal cancers, only four had somatic missense mutations in the DNA repair gene MGMT, while the majority of these cancers had reduced MGMT expression due to methylation of the MGMT promoter region. Five reports, listed in the article Epigenetics (see section \"DNA repair epigenetics in cancer\") presented evidence that between 40% and 90% of colorectal cancers have reduced MGMT expression due to methylation of the MGMT promoter region.\n\nSimilarly, for 119 cases of colorectal cancers classified as mismatch repair deficient and lacking DNA repair gene PMS2 expression, Pms2 was deficient in 6 due to mutations in the PMS2 gene, while in 103 cases PMS2 expression was deficient because its pairing partner MLH1 was repressed due to promoter methylation (PMS2 protein is unstable in the absence of MLH1). The other 10 cases of loss of PMS2 expression were likely due to epigenetic overexpression of the microRNA, miR-155, which down-regulates MLH1.\n\nIn cancer epigenetics (see section Frequencies of epimutations in DNA repair genes), there is a partial listing of epigenetic deficiencies found in DNA repair genes in sporadic cancers. These include frequencies of between 13–100% of epigenetic defects in genes BRCA1, WRN, FANCB, FANCF, MGMT, MLH1, MSH2, MSH4, ERCC1, XPF, NEIL1 and ATM located in cancers including breast, ovarian, colorectal and head and neck. Two or three epigenetic deficiencies in expression of ERCC1, XPF and/or PMS2 were found to occur simultaneously in the majority of the 49 colon cancers evaluated. Some of these DNA repair deficiencies can be caused by epimutations in microRNAs as summarized in the MicroRNA article section titled miRNA, DNA repair and cancer.\n\nCancers usually result from disruption of a tumor repressor or dysregulation of an oncogene. Knowing that B-cells experience DNA breaks through development can give insight to the genome of lymphomas. Many types of lymphoma are caused by chromosomal translocation, which can arise from breaks in DNA leading to incorrect joining. In Burkitt’s lymphoma, c-myc, an oncogene encoding a transcription factor, is translocated after the promoter of the immunoglobulin gene, leading dysregulation of c-myc transcription. Since immunoglobulins are essential to a lymphocyte and highly expressed to increase detection of antigens, c-myc is then also highly expressed leading to transcription of its targets which are involved in cell proliferation. Mantle cell lymphoma is characterized by fusion of cyclin D1 to the immunoglobulin locus. Cyclin D1 inhibits Rb, a tumor suppressor, leading to tumorigenesis. Follicular lymphoma results from the translocation of immunoglobulin promoter to the Bcl-2 gene, giving rise to large amounts of Bcl-2 protein which inhibits apoptosis. DNA-damaged B-cells no longer undergo apoptosis leading to further mutations which could affect driver genes leading to tumorigenesis. The location of translocation in the oncogene shares structural properties of the target regions of AID, suggesting that the oncogene was a potential target of AID, leading to a double-stranded break that was translocated to the immunoglobulin gene locus through NHEJ repair.\n"}
{"id": "9514564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9514564", "title": "Giovanni Battista Abbatessa", "text": "Giovanni Battista Abbatessa\n\nGiovanni Battista Abatessa (? – after 1651) was an Italian composer and Baroque guitarist, likely born in Bitonto (near Bari) in the Kingdom of Naples. His compositional output consists of four books of pieces for five-course Baroque guitar. While many of Abatessa’s contemporaries used the guitar as an accompaniment for the voice, Abatessa’s main focus was on the guitar as a solo instrument.\n\nAbatessa’s books contain instructions concerning the interpretation of the alphabeto tablature, the fingering of the chords, and the tuning of the guitar. The 1627 collection gives instructions regarding the execution of certain kinds of strum such as the trillo and repicco, while the 1635 book and the undated Ghirlanda di varii fiori contain a table of correspondences between alfabeto chords in different positions. The 1635 collection contains five villanellas; others are found in the 1652 book, with, however, only the words and the accompanimental chords for guitar notated. The 1652 book also explains how to tune the guitar with the harp, presumably for the simultaneous playing of Basso continuo parts.\n\n\nTyler, James. The Early Guitar: A History and Handbook. London: Music Dept., Oxford UP, 1980. Print.\n"}
{"id": "5743206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5743206", "title": "Glassing", "text": "Glassing\n\nGlassing is a physical attack using a glass or bottle as a weapon. Glassings can occur at bars or pubs where alcohol is served and such items are readily available. The most common method of glassing involves the attacker smashing an intact glass in the face of the victim. However, the glass may be smashed before the attack, and then gripped by the remaining base of the glass or neck of the bottle with the broken shards protruding outwards. Glassing is easily prevented by using containers made from plastic or tempered glass instead, but they suffer from unpleasant feel (plastic) and higher expense (for tempered glass). These alternative containers are slowly being adopted in areas with a high frequency of glassing, such as the United Kingdom and Australia. In New Zealand, a similar phenomenon is referred to as \"bottling\".\n\nCommon injuries resulting from glassings are heavy blood loss, permanent scarring, disfigurement and loss of sight through ocular injury. In the United Kingdom, there are more than 87,000 glassing attacks per year, resulting in over 5,000 injuries. Glassing is a relatively small portion of all alcohol-related violence, constituting 9% of injuries from alcohol-related violence in New South Wales, from 1999 to 2011, for instance.\n\nIn 2000, following a series of glassing attacks in Manchester, Greater Manchester Police and the Manchester Evening News launched a campaign \"Safe Glass Safe City\" promoting the use of toughened glass in pubs and clubs to prevent such attacks.\n\nAt least three states in Australia are addressing glassing incidents by introducing regulations for liquor-licensed venues.\n\nNew South Wales introduced many restrictions in 2008, including the removal of glass after midnight for high-risk venues. This has resulted in a significant reduction in the number of glassings.\n\nIn response to glassing violence, the government of Western Australia in 2011 made recommendations to the state hospitality industry on the use of tempered glass in hotels. The state government and the Australian Hotels Association created a self-regulatory program on the rollout of tempered glass in pubs, with most hotels and bars expected to change over to tempered beer glasses in six to 12 months. Royal Perth Hospital's head of plastic surgery Mark Duncan-Smith described it as an important step in protecting the public.\n\nIn relation to continuing glassing incidents despite limited glass bans in Queensland, Australia, state Liquor Licensing Minister Paul Lucas in 2011 predicted that almost all Queensland pubs and clubs would be (standard) glass-free in 10 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "16619170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16619170", "title": "Hans Anton Aalien", "text": "Hans Anton Aalien\n\nHans Anton Aalien (born 21 September 1958) is a blind skier from Norway. He won a gold medal in the disabled skiing at the 1988 Winter Olympics event in Calgary, Alberta, Canada with a time of 18 minutes, 52.2 seconds. He participated in track and field athletics at four consecutive Summer Paralympics, from 1976 to 1988, and also competed in swimming in 1976 and 1984. He won one bronze medal in athletics and a silver and a bronze in swimming. At the Winter Paralympics, he competed in cross-country skiing in 1980, 1984, and 1988, and medaled in every event he participated in. He won a total of seven golds, one silver, and one bronze winter Paralympic medal.\n\nHe was born in Elverum, Norway.\n"}
{"id": "13110480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13110480", "title": "Human spirit", "text": "Human spirit\n\nThe human spirit is a component of human philosophy, psychology, art, and knowledge - the spiritual or mental part of humanity. While the term can be used with the same meaning as \"human soul\", human spirit is sometimes used to refer to the impersonal, universal or higher component of human nature in contrast to soul or psyche which can refer to the ego or lower element. The human spirit includes our intellect, emotions, fears, passions, and creativity.\n\nIn the models of Daniel A. Helminiak and Bernard Lonergan, human spirit is considered to be the mental functions of awareness, insight, understanding, judgement and other reasoning powers. It is distinguished from the separate component of psyche which comprises the entities of emotion, images, memory and personality.\n\nJohn Teske views human spirit as a social construct representing the qualities of purpose and meaning which transcend the individual human.\n\nAccording to historian Oswald Spengler, a distinction between Spirit and Soul has been made by the West and earlier civilizations which influenced its development.\nThe human spirit can be seen as the heavenly component of human's non material makeup - the part that is impersonal or universal. Whereas souls are the personal element unique to each individual. As Spengler writes in \"The Decline of the West\":\n\nIn Christianity, the Bible identifies humanity's three basic elements: spirit, soul and body. Christians emphasise that the human spirit is the 'real person', the very core of a person's being, the essential seat of their existence. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as their Saviour, it is their human spirit that is transformed as they become 'new creatures' in Jesus Christ. The soul which is the seat of the will, mind and emotions does not get converted but needs to be renewed on a daily basis through the recommended Christian disciplines such as prayer and reading the Bible. In Islam, Muslims are viewed as having their own spirits, but one that in a sense is one with God's spirit. For Spengler, the perception of unity this idea led to was important for the emergence of the \"consensus\" that maintained harmony in Islamic culture, especially during the Golden Age of Islam.\n"}
{"id": "58570046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58570046", "title": "Jesuit Community Cemetery", "text": "Jesuit Community Cemetery\n\nThe Jesuit Community Cemetery is on the campus of Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., the final resting place for Jesuits who were affiliated with the university. It was first established in 1808 and was moved to its present location in 1854.\n\nThe Jesuit cemetery was originally established in 1808 at the southern end of Healy Hall. The first person buried there was Thomas Kelly, S.J. on August 16, 1808. With the construction of Maguire Hall, university administrators ordered the cemetery moved to its present location in 1854 so that it was not immediately next to the hall. In the course of this, the remains of 46 Jesuits were exhumed and relocated. A senior administrator wrote to university president Edward B. Bunn in 1964, proposing the idea of exhuming the bodies in the cemetery and removing them to the cemetery at Woodstock College in Maryland, as doing so would free up approximately one acre of land on the campus that could be used for building.\n\nToday, the cemetery is situated between the Edward B. Bunn S.J. Intercultural Center and Harbin Hall, in the middle of Georgetown's campus. , the cemetery is the resting place for 350 Jesuits, 17 of whom served as president of Georgetown University. It is the oldest of the cemeteries owned by the university. As with other Jesuit cemeteries around the world, all of the headstones are uniform. Many of these headstones are marked in Latin with to indicate that the decedent was a Jesuit brother, or to indicate that the decedent was a priest or scholastic.\n\nAmong the notable burials are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35821658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35821658", "title": "Joseph Diaz", "text": "Joseph Diaz\n\nJoseph Pedroza Diaz Jr. (born November 23, 1992) from South El Monte, California is an American boxer who competed in the 2012 Olympics as a bantamweight and is the current NABF Featherweight Champion.\n\nJoseph is of Mexican descent. He attended Kranz Intermediate at the age of 12-14. He is left-handed and fights southpaw. As a child he played baseball but took up boxing to learn self-defense. He is coached by his father. He attended South El Monte High School.\n\nPrior to the Olympic Trials, Joseph was the two-time reigning national champion at bantamweight that included a win over Antonio Nieves. Diaz became the first American boxer to qualify for the 2012 Olympics by becoming a quarter-finalist at the 2011 World Amateur Boxing Championships, where he defeated both 2004 Olympic silver medalist Worapoj Petchkoom of Thailand and former world championship bronze medalist Óscar Valdez of Mexico but lost to Lázaro Álvarez. Díaz was the 2011 U.S. National Champion at Featherweight at the U.S. Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Diaz fought in the 2010-11 World Series of Boxing\n\nAt the 2012 Summer Olympics he beat Pavlo Ishchenko, but ran into Alvarez in his second fight and lost again.\n\nDiaz made his professional debut in 2012 against Vincent Alfaro winning by Unanimous Decision in four rounds and also scored a knockdown in the fourth,then on February 2, 2013 Diaz would go on to fight Jose Ruiz of Puerto Rico and win by TKO on the undercard of Frankie Gomez vs Lanard Lane.\n\nOn May 9, 2015, Diaz defeated Giovanni Delgado via unanimous decision on the undercard of the Saul Alvarez vs James Kirkland fight. He stepped up competition against veteran Rene Alvarado in a fight televised on HBO Latino in July 2015 and on Dec. 18, Diaz Jr. defeated Hugo Partida and earned the NABF Featherweight Title. He has since successfully defended his title twice against Jayson Velez and Victor Proa.\n\n!Result\n!Record\n!Opponent\n!Type\n!Round, time\n!Date\n!Location\n!Notes\n"}
{"id": "34005378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34005378", "title": "Kiki Camarena", "text": "Kiki Camarena\n\nEnrique S. \"Kiki\" Camarena Salazar (July 26, 1947February 9, 1985) was a Mexican-born American undercover agent for the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) who was abducted on February 7, 1985, and then tortured and murdered, while on assignment in Mexico.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1975, Camarena served in the United States Marine Corps. After his military service he became a police officer in his hometown. Camarena was also a Special Agent on the original Imperial County Narcotic Task Force (ICNTF) while working in Calexico, California. \n\nCamarena first joined the DEA, at their Calexico, California office. In 1977, Camarena moved to the agency's Fresno office, and in 1981, he was assigned to their Guadalajara office in Mexico.\n\nIn 1984, acting on information from Camarena, 450 Mexican soldiers backed by helicopters destroyed a marijuana plantation in Allende (Chihuahua) with an estimated annual production of $8 billion known as \"Rancho Búfalo\". Camarena, who had been identified as the source of the leak, was abducted in broad daylight on February 8, 1985, by corrupt police officers working for drug lord Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo. Camarena was tortured at Gallardo's ranch over a 30-hour period, then murdered. His skull, jaw, nose, cheekbones and windpipe were crushed, his ribs were broken, and a hole was drilled into his head with a power drill. He had been injected with amphetamines and other drugs, most likely to ensure that he remained conscious while being tortured. Camarena's body was found in a rural area outside the small town of La Angostura, in the state of Michoacán, on March 5, 1985.\n\nCamarena's torture and murder prompted a swift reaction from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and launched Operation Leyenda, the largest DEA homicide investigation ever undertaken. A special unit was dispatched to coordinate the investigation in Mexico, where government officials were implicated—including Manuel Ibarra Herrera, past director of Mexican Federal Judicial Police, and Miguel Aldana Ibarra, the former director of Interpol in Mexico. Investigators soon identified Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo and his two close associates, Ernesto Fonseca Carrillo and Rafael Caro Quintero, as the primary suspects in the kidnapping. Under pressure from the U.S. government, Mexican President Miguel de la Madrid quickly apprehended Fonseca and Caro but Félix Gallardo still enjoyed political protection.\n\nThe United States government pursued a lengthy investigation of Camarena's murder. Due to the difficulty of extraditing Mexican citizens, the DEA went as far as to detain two suspects, Humberto Álvarez Machaín, the physician who allegedly prolonged Camarena's life so the torture could continue, and Javier Vásquez Velasco; both were taken by bounty hunters into the United States.\n\nDespite vigorous protests from the Mexican government, Álvarez was brought to trial in Los Angeles in 1992. After presentation of the government's case, the judge ruled that there was insufficient evidence to support a guilty verdict, and charges were dropped. Álvarez subsequently initiated a civil suit against the U.S. government, charging that his arrest had breached the U.S.–Mexico extradition treaty. The case eventually reached the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that Álvarez was not entitled to relief. The four other defendants, Vásquez Velasco, Juan Ramón Matta-Ballesteros, Juan José Bernabé Ramírez, and Rubén Zuno Arce (a brother-in-law of former President Luis Echeverría), were tried and found guilty of Camarena's kidnapping.\n\nZuno had known ties to corrupt Mexican officials, and Mexican officials were implicated in covering up the murder. Mexican police had destroyed evidence on Camarena's body.\n\nIn October 2013, two former federal agents and a self-proclaimed ex-CIA contractor told an American television network that CIA operatives were involved in Camarena's kidnapping and murder, because he was a threat to the agency's drug operations in Mexico. According to the three men, the CIA was collaborating with drug traffickers moving cocaine and marijuana to the United States, and using its share of the profits to finance Nicaraguan Contra rebels attempting to overthrow Nicaragua's Sandinista government. A CIA spokesman responded that \"it's ridiculous to suggest that the CIA had anything to do with the murder of a U.S. federal agent or the escape of his killer\".\n\nIn November 1988, \"TIME\" magazine featured Camarena on the cover. Camarena received numerous awards while with the DEA, and he posthumously received the Administrator's Award of Honor, the highest award given by the organization. In Fresno, the DEA hosts a yearly golf tournament named after him. A school, a library and a street in his home town of Calexico, California, are named after him. The nationwide annual Red Ribbon Week, which teaches school children and youths to avoid drug use, was established in his memory.\n\nIn 2004, the Enrique S. Camarena Foundation was established in Camarena's memory. Camarena's wife Mika and son Enrique Jr. serve on the all-volunteer Board of Directors together with former DEA agents, law enforcement personnel, family and friends of Camarena's, and others who share their commitment to alcohol, tobacco and other drug and violence prevention. As part of their ongoing Drug Awareness program, the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks awards an annual Enrique Camarena Award at local, state and national levels to a member of law enforcement who carries out anti-drugs work.\n\nIn 2004, the Calexico Police Department erected a memorial dedicated to Camarena. The memorial is located in the halls of the department, where Camarena honorably served.\n\nSeveral books have been written on the subject. Camarena is the subject of the book \"¿O Plata o Plomo? The abduction and murder of DEA Agent Enrique Camarena\" (2005), by retired DEA Resident Agent in Charge James H. Kuykendall. Roberto Saviano's non-fiction book \"Zero Zero Zero\" (2015) deals in part with Camarena's undercover work and his eventual fate.\n\nCamarena was married to Mika and they had three sons.\n\n\"\" (1990) is a U.S television mini-series about Camarena, starring Treat Williams and Steven Bauer,\n\nThe History Channel documentary \"Heroes Under Fire: Righteous Vendetta\" (2005) chronicles the events and features interviews with family members, DEA agents, and others involved in the investigation.\n\nIn the 2018 Netflix drama, \"\", Camarena was played by American actor Michael Peña.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48234250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48234250", "title": "Killing of Igor Kornelyuk and Anton Voloshin", "text": "Killing of Igor Kornelyuk and Anton Voloshin\n\nA Russian state television correspondent Igor Kornelyuk and sound engineer Anton Voloshin were with a group of LPR rebel separatist fighters during the ongoing war in Donbass as they came under a mortar strike launched by the Armed Forces of Ukraine, near Metalist, Slovianoserbsk Raion, Ukraine, on 17 June 2014. They were killed in the attack, along with 5 rebels. Cameraman Viktor Denisov was not injured in the attack.\n\nA Ukrainian military pilot, Nadiya Savchenko who served as instructor with a volunteer infantry unit, Aidar Battalion was taken prisoner by the rebel forces at the LPR territory, brought to Russia and convicted to 22 years of imprisonment for allegedly directing the mortar fire and illegal crossing of Russian border. After two years of imprisonment, she was released in a prisoner swap for two Russian prisoners in Ukraine.\n\nIgor Kornelyuk graduated from the Institute of Culture in St. Petersbug. Since 1998 he worked as a correspondent in \"Yamal\" and was a leader on the editorial board of children's programs. Kornelyuk was employed as correspondent for Russia state-owned broadcaster VGTRK, and spent a total of 15 years with VGTRK. Kornelyuk worked alongside Anton Voloshin, reporting on events taking place during the pro-Russian conflict in Eastern Ukraine.\n\nAfter the attack by Ukrainian Forces, Igor Kornelyuk was taken to Lugansk Regional Hospital by pro-Russian separatists. At the hospital Igor was diagnosed with having shrapnel wounds to the abdomen, legs and burns to the face. Igor would die only after 35 minutes in the emergency room. Igor Kornelyuk died on 17 June 2014 in the city of Lugansk, Ukraine. Igor Kornelyuk is survived by his wife Catherine Kornelyuk and their young daughter. Family and friends gathered in Moscow to pay final respects to Kornelyuk.\n\nAnton Voloshin was employed as a sound engineer with the Russian state-owned broadcaster VGTRK. Anton worked alongside Igor Kornelyuk, reporting on events taking place during the Pro-Russian conflict in Eastern Ukraine.\n\nAnton Voloshin was killed, 17 June 2014, at the scene of the mortar attack in Metalist, Slovianoserbsk Raion, Ukraine. At first Voloshin was presumed missing, until body remains were later identified by Viktor Denisov, a VGTRK cameraman who was not harmed in the attack.\n\nAccording to Russian media Savchenko was captured near the city of Luhansk, Ukraine on 18 June 2014, by pro-Russian separatists as an artillery spotter-operator of Mi-24 after reporting coordinates of the Russian reporters to mortar artillerists. According to the Investigative Committee of Russia, Savchenko texted the coordinates from her cell phone over to mortar artillerists. Russian media also was accusing Savchenko in tortures against prisoners of war and use of stimulants.\n\nAfter the event, the Russian prosecutors charged Ukrainian Army aviation helicopter pilot Nadiya Savchenko (sometimes transliterated as Nadezhda) for assisting in the deaths of Igor Kornelyuk and Anton Voloshin. Despite having an alibi (she was captured by the rebels one hour before the mortar attack occurred according to billing data of mobile phones), she is accused of informing Ukrainian Forces of the location of the journalists. A guilty verdict was delivered 20 March 2016, and she was sentenced the next day to 22 years. On 25 May 2016, the Ukrainian and Russian governments exchanged prisoners, and Savchenko was released and flown to Kiev while two Russian prisoners held in Ukrainian prison were released to Russia.\n\nThe deaths of both Igor Kornelyuk and Anton Voloshin add on to a growing list of journalist whom have died on the War in Donbass The region of Eastern Ukraine has been regarded as a \"trap for journalists\". Leading to many to call for action to help protect the lives of journalist in major conflict areas such as in Eastern Ukraine.\n\nDunja Mijatovic, OSCE representative on freedom of the media, stated in response to the event, \"This death is yet another horrid reminder that not enough is being done to protect journalists who risk their lives reporting from conflict zones in Ukraine\". An investigation into the event started by the Investigative Committee of Russia, stating that this event as a criminal case. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev expressed his anger toward the Ukrainian Government stating that they should be the ones held responsible for the killing. Condemning the killings as \"crime of Ukrainian forces\".\n\nIrina Bokova, director-general of UNESCO, on 19 June 2014, denounced the killing of Russian journalist Igor Kornelyuk and sound engineer Anton Voloshin. Bokova said, \"I am deeply shocked by the death of journalists Igor Kornelyuk, and Anton Voloshin. I call on all parties to respect the civilian status of journalists and let them carry out their important professional activities in safe conditions in keeping with the Geneva Convention and its Protocols.\" Ukrainian President,\n\nPresident Petro Poroshenko promised an investigation into the deaths of the journalists. In a conversation with Vladimir Putin, Poroshenko expressed his condolences to the families of the journalist.\n\nBoth Igor Kornelyuk and Anton Voloshin were awarded with a medal of courage by the Kremlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294537", "title": "Liphistiidae", "text": "Liphistiidae\n\nThe spider family Liphistiidae, recognized by Tamerlan Thorell in 1869, comprises 8 genera and about 100 species of medium-sized spiders from Southeast Asia, China, and Japan. They are among the most basal living spiders, belonging to the suborder Mesothelae. In Japan, the Kimura spider (\"Heptathela kimurai\") is well known.\n\nLiphistiidae are tube-dwelling spiders that construct rudimentary trap-doors. They spend most of their time here and are rarely seen above ground. The medium to large spiders range from eight to twenty-three millimeters long. They are characterized by their downward pointing, daggerlike chelicerae, and the segmented series of plates on the upper surface of the abdomen. The carapace is mostly flat, though it can be slightly elevated near the head. The eyes are distinctly clustered together on a single nodule. Anterior median eyes are small, but posterior median eyes are large and round. The lateral eyes are long and kidney-shaped. The distal leg segments have strong spines and three claws. Chelicerae are vertically attached to the cephalothorax. In the past, they were frequently believed to lack venom, but in 2010 it was shown that at least \"Liphistius\" species have venom glands.\n\nThey are active at night and live for many years. Although most species live in burrows, cave-dwelling species also fasten their retreats to the cave walls. Both burrows and retreats are sealed with woven doors. Trapdoor nests are generally built in shady areas with moss or sparse vegetation. Some make silk trip-lines radiating away from the burrow entrance. Adult males sometimes wander in search for females, but females rarely leave their burrows. The respiratory system consists only of book lungs, which could help explain why they are relatively inactive.\n\nThree of the \"Liphistius\" species known to exist in Malaysia are endemic to only one or two caves. The most well known is \"Liphistius batuensis\", which is found in Batu Caves. Other species that can be found in Malaysia include \"Liphistius malayanus\", \"Liphistius murphyorum\" and \"Liphistius desultor\". The Malaysian trapdoor spiders are protected by local law, though continuous threats come from loss of habitat and collection by exotic pet traders. It is believed that these species are endemic and once an isolated habitat is destroyed, the species may go extinct.\n\nAlthough they have downward pointing chelicerae like the Mygalomorphae, there is no close relationship between the two. It is thought that the common ancestor of all spiders was orthognath and that in the Opisthothelae, comprising Mygalomorphae (mostly tarantulas) and Araneomorphae (all other spiders), only the Araneomorphae changed their alignment of chelicerae, while the mygalomorphs retained this symplesiomorphic feature.\nMolecular phylogenetic studies have repeatedly shown that the family is monophyletic, at least as regards extant (living) species. The relationship between the genera is shown in the following cladogram:\n\nIn 1923, Kyukichi Kishida suggested dividing the family into two subfamilies, Liphistiinae and Heptathelinae, corresponding to the genera \"Liphistius\" and \"Heptathela\". More genera have since been added to the family, but the subfamily division has been upheld by modern phylogenetic studies. \"Liphistius\", the sole genus in the subfamily Liphistiinae, is found only in Southeast Asia (Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, Malaysia and Sumatra). The Heptathelinae are found further north: five genera in northern Vietnam and China and two genera in Japan and offshore islands (Okinawa, Ryukyu Islands).\n\n, the World Spider Catalog accepted the following extant genera:\n\nOne genus of fossil spiders, \"Cretaceothele\" , was originally placed in this family, but it was subsequently transferred to the separate family Cretaceothelidae.\nWhile some Carboniferous fossil spiders have been assigned to Mesothelae, the only fossil to be explicitly placed in the family Liphistiidae is \"Cretaceothele lata\" Wunderlich, 2015 from the Cretaceous Burmese amber of Myanmar. The fossil genus was diagnosed as having an eye-field wider than that in living species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18940307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18940307", "title": "List of countries by intentional homicide rate by decade", "text": "List of countries by intentional homicide rate by decade\n\nList of countries by homicide rate by decade per year per 100,000 inhabitants. The reliability of underlying national homicide rate data may vary. Homicide demographics are affected by changes in trauma care, leading to changed lethality of violent assaults, so the homicide rate may not necessarily indicate the overall level of societal violence.\n"}
{"id": "1769486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769486", "title": "Lunar Receiving Laboratory", "text": "Lunar Receiving Laboratory\n\nThe Lunar Receiving Laboratory (LRL) was a facility at NASA's Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center (Building 37) that was constructed to quarantine astronauts and material brought back from the Moon during the Apollo program to mitigate the risk of back-contamination. After recovery at sea, crews from Apollo 11, Apollo 12 and Apollo 14 walked from their helicopter to the Mobile Quarantine Facility on the deck of an aircraft carrier and were brought to the LRL for quarantine. Samples of rock and regolith that the astronauts collected and brought back were flown directly to the LRL and initially analyzed in glovebox vacuum chambers.\n\nThe quarantine requirement was dropped beginning with Apollo 15 and the LRL was used for study, distribution and safe storage of the lunar samples. Between 1969 and 1972, six Apollo space flight missions brought back 382 kilograms (842 pounds) of lunar rocks, core samples, pebbles, sand and dust from the lunar surface. The six space flights returned 2200 separate samples from six different exploration sites on the lunar surface. (Other lunar samples were returned to Earth by three automated Soviet spacecraft, named Luna 16, Luna 20, and Luna 24, which returned samples totaling 300 grams (approximately 3/4 pound) from three other lunar sites.)\n\nIn 1976, a portion of the samples were moved to Brooks Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas for second-site storage. In 1979, a Lunar Sample Laboratory Facility was built to serve as the chief repository for the Apollo samples. It was constructed to provide permanent storage of the lunar sample collection in a physically secure and non-contaminating environment. The facility consists of storage vaults for the samples, laboratories for sample preparation and study, a vault for sample data and records, and machinery to supply nitrogen to the cabinets in which the samples are stored and processed. The Lunar Receiving Laboratory building is currently occupied by the Life Sciences division. It contains biomedical and environment labs, and is used for experiments involving human adaptation to microgravity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41907939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41907939", "title": "Maternal somatic support after brain death", "text": "Maternal somatic support after brain death\n\nMaternal somatic support after brain death occurs when a brain dead patient is pregnant and her body is kept alive to deliver a fetus. It occurs very rarely internationally. Even among brain dead patients, in a U.S. study of 252 brain dead patients from 1990–96, only 5 (2.8%) cases involved pregnant women between 15 and 45 years of age.\n\nIn the 28-year period between 1982 and 2010, there were \"30 [reported] cases of maternal brain death (19 case reports and 1 case series).\" In 12 of those cases, a viable child was delivered via cesarean section after extended somatic support. However, according to Esmaelilzadeh, et al. there is no widely accepted protocol to manage a brain dead mother \"since only a few reported cases are found in the medical literature.\" Moreover, the mother's wishes are rarely, if ever, known, and family should be consulted in developing a care plan.\n\nThroughout their care, brain dead patients could experience a wide range of complications, including \"infection, hemodynamic instability, diabetes insipidus (DI), panhypopituitarism, poikilothermia, metabolic instability, acute respiratory distress syndrome and disseminated intravascular coagulation.\" Treating these complications is difficult since the effects of medication on the fetus's health are unknown.\n\nAccording to Esmaelilzadeh, et al., \"[a]t present, it seems that there is no clear lower limit to the gestational age which would restrict the physician's efforts to support the brain dead mother and her fetus.\" However, the older a fetus is when its mother becomes brain dead, the greater its chance for survival. Research into preterm births indicates that \"a fetus born before 24 weeks of gestation has a limited chance of survival. At 24, 28 and 32 weeks, a fetus has approximately a 20–30%, 80% and 98% likelihood of survival with a 40%, 10% and less than 2% chance of suffering from a severe handicap, respectively.\"\n\nIt is important to understand the similarities and differences between brain death and two other conditions: persistent vegetative state and coma.\n\nPatients in a persistent vegetative state \"are alive but also have severely impaired consciousness, although their eyes may open spontaneously. The eye opening may give the impression of consciousness, but there is no awareness of the environment. These patients do not acknowledge the examiner; they do not attend or track objects that are presented to them; their movements are non-purposeful; they do not speak.\" The difference between the two states is that brain death means \"death of the brainstem\" which can be clinically diagnosed and vegetative state means \"permanent and total loss of forebrain function\" which needs further investigation.\n\nPeople in comas have \"presence of brain stem responses, spontaneous breathing or non-purposeful motor responses.\" However, comas can result in brain death, or recovery or even a persistent vegetative state.\n\nSeveral laws have bearing in situations that involve maternal somatic support after brain death. The Federal Patient Self-Determination Act (PSDA) requires health care institutions to provide newly admitted adult patients with information regarding advance health care directives. The intent of this law is to make patients aware of their rights with regard to end-of-life care.\n\nState laws have also proven important in cases involving maternal somatic support. The Texas Advance Directives Act, also referred to as the Texas Futile Care Law, provides hospitals with discretion over continuing the provision of life support, and voids advance directive wishes for patients who are pregnant. This Texas law served as a point of contention in the Death of Marlise Muñoz—a situation in which end-of-life care became entangled with abortion laws and politics. Marlise Muñoz was 14 weeks pregnant when this incident occurred, and while an abortion is legal at 14 weeks in Texas, the state's law dictates that a hospital must provide life support for pregnant women. Absent from the legislation are specifics as to how the law should be applied depending on how far along a woman is in her pregnancy, as well as the definition of terminally ill versus brain dead. This Texas law does not specifically detail a hospital's obligation in the case when a pregnant woman is brain dead, thus leading to the long-drawn legal battle that ensued in the weeks following Marlise Muñoz's pulmonary embolism.\nTexas is one of several states that have laws that pertain to pregnant women and advance directives or Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) directives. Specifically, 26 states have laws that ignore advance directives when a woman is terminally ill, but pregnant. This recent situation involving Marlise Muñoz raised a host of questions related to unborn fetuses, patient and family preferences, and hospital discretion in interpreting state laws that involve advance directives.\n\nThe cost of maintaining a brain dead mother on life support depends on the number of days spent in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). One might consider that every day (after viability) that the fetus is in utero is a day in which fetal development occurs and represents one day less that the fetus would have to be in the neonatal ICU (NICU).\nA 2005 study found the average cost of medical ventilation for adults in the ICU to be $1,500 per day and long-term ICU care to be approximately $5,000 per day. Of the twelve viable children known to be delivered from brain dead mothers on prolonged somatic support between 1982 and 2010, the mean gestational age at the time of brain death was 22 weeks and the mean gestational age at delivery was 29.5 weeks, leading to an average length of somatic support for the mothers in the ICU of 7.5 weeks (52.5 days).\n\nThe cost of a cesarean section, the recommended mode of delivery for brain dead pregnant women, is roughly $4,500 for physicians' fees alone, according to the Healthcare Bluebook. Depending upon how many weeks a neonate is premature, he or she could spend anywhere between two and four months in the NICU. NICU costs generally run more than $3,500 per day.\nThe most recent peer-reviewed investigation to note the overall cost of care for a viable child delivered from a somatically supported brain dead mother focused on the case of a child delivered via cesarean section in California on the 63rd hospital day at 31 weeks gestation, to a mother who was brain dead at 22 weeks gestation in 1983. The costs for maternal care in that case were $183,081 and those for neonatal care were $34,703. The average household income in the U.S. in 1983 was $29,184. The death of Marlise Muñoz at John Peter Smith Hospital in Fort Worth, TX was the most recently publicized instance of somatic support of a brain dead pregnant woman from 2013-2014. The hospital declined to reveal how much it cost to treat Muñoz.\nAscertaining the costs of treatment for such episodes of care may be difficult given that the billing procedures of many hospitals rely on the costs listed in each hospital's chargemaster. Costs maintained on the chargemaster differ greatly from hospital to hospital and there is little transparency detailing many hospitals' chargemaster listings. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) does have a provision, Sect. 2718 (c), that requires all hospitals to publish a list of their \"standard charges\", but the Department of Health and Human Services has not issued a rule to implement that provision.\n\nIt is uncertain if government or private health insurance would pay for extended somatic support for a brain dead pregnant woman and how much of care costs a family may have to pay. In the death of Marlise Muñoz at John Peter Smith Hospital, the hospital declined to reveal who would pay for the extended medical care provided.\n\nEthical decisions to prolong somatic survival for a brain dead pregnant woman take on several views, with decisions often influenced by the gestational age of the fetus at the time the woman sustained injury. Beneficence and right to life for both the fetus and mother guide many ethical arguments. If prolonging the mother's life is likely to have a positive outcome for the fetus, it can be considered ethical.\nDrawing upon the principle of beneficence, Dillon et al. and Loewy propose the following rubric when determining whether or not to offer life support to a pregnant, brain dead woman:\n\nA second view considers the autonomy of the mother and her right to die. For example, the FIGO Committee for the Ethical Aspects of Human Reproduction and Women's Health has published Brain Death and Pregnancy, a report to help clinicians, healthcare administrators, and families evaluate the ethical considerations surrounding women's health. Within this report the committee establishes that healthcare providers are first responsible to the woman, and then to the unborn fetus. The report concludes by stating, \"Women have the right to die in dignity. The goal of fetal rescue does not exonerate healthcare givers from the duty to respect this right of the primary patient—the woman.\"\n\nA third view considers the cognizance of the mother. The mother is responsible for the well-being of her fetus as long as she recognizes its existence. When a pregnant woman becomes brain dead, the mother can no longer acknowledge the fetus; as such, the mother no longer has a moral responsibility for keeping the fetus alive. Without an advance directive stating that the woman wishes to be kept alive to save her unborn child, prolonging life is unethical.\n\nFinally, some ethicists have argued that there are no ethical dilemmas inherent in the case of a pregnant woman who is declared brain dead. They argue that because the brain dead patient is no longer alive, he or she ceases to be a patient; the continuation of ventilation in an effort to save the fetus can be considered a medical experiment that requires ethics committee or IRB-approval before a facility can perform this work.\n\nKeeping a medically declared 'brain dead' woman on life support to sustain a potentially viable fetus is a topic of considerable debate and controversy. Such circumstances involve considerable moral, ethical, biological and legal issues.\nThere is heavy discourse between biomedical and legal experts regarding whether a dead person is \"a dysfunctional incubator\" to an unborn fetus. And, further deliberation surrounds a woman's rights under the 14th Amendment to make medical decisions about her own body. There is also question about the intervening capacity of state authority in such cases, particularly in states like Texas, which prohibit medical officials from withdrawing life support from a pregnant patient.\nPublic opinion is depicted as being shaped by individual beliefs pertaining to related matters of end-of-life care, abortion, female reproductive rights and the rights of an unborn child. Personal viewpoints are also shaped by religious beliefs. Arguments have been made in favor of or against preserving the somatic function of a dead pregnant woman. These disputes are often spearheaded by activist groups that advocate one of these two positions.\nSupporters against life-sustaining efforts, when it conflicts with a woman's wishes, include pro-choice groups, like NARAL Pro-Choice America. These dispute government, state and/or religious institutional interventions to make decisions against an individual's own wishes, which they argue renders advance directives meaningless and fails to protect women.\n\nSupporters in favor of life-sustaining efforts include anti-abortion advocacy groups (e.g. Secular Pro-Life, National Black Pro-Life Coalition and Operation Rescue), as well as some legislators, who advocate protecting the life of a fetus.\n"}
{"id": "7197919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7197919", "title": "Melchior-Alphonse de Salaberry", "text": "Melchior-Alphonse de Salaberry\n\nColonel the Honourable Melchior-Alphonse de Salaberry or Melchior-Alphonse d'Irumberry de Salaberry (May 19, 1813 – March 27, 1867) was a Quebec lawyer and political figure.\n\nHe was born in Saint-Philippe-de-Laprairie, Lower Canada in 1813, the son of Charles-Michel d'Irumberry de Salaberry, the hero of the Battle of Chateauguay.\n\nHe was appointed commissioner for small causes in 1836. In 1837, he was named to the Legislative Council of Lower Canada, but never took his seat due to the Lower Canada Rebellion. In the same year, he was appointed lieutenant-colonel in the local militia and prevented the capture of Fort Chambly by the Patriotes. In 1841, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada for Rouville. He was forced to run again for his seat in 1842 after accepting the post of clerk of the Richelieu district court and was defeated by William Walker. He was admitted to the bar in 1845 and practiced law with Robert-Shore-Milnes Bouchette. In 1847, he was appointed assistant coroner of Montreal and, in 1848, assistant adjutant-general of the Lower Canada militia. He served in this last post until his death at Quebec City in 1867.\n\nMelchior-Alphonse de Salaberry married Marie-Émilie Guy, the daughter of Louis Guy, in 1846. The couple`s daughter, Miss Hermine de Salaberry was a native of Quebec, and was educated in Quebec city and in Montreal. In 1889, she was accorded a private audience with Her\nMajesty Queen Victoria at the instance of H.R.H. the Princess Louise (later Duchess of Argyll). In October 1895, Hermione unveiled the monument to Charles-Michel d'Irumberry de Salaberry, which commemorates the Battle of Chateauguay. The de Salaberry family resided at 833 Sherbrooke Street, Montreal.\n\n"}
{"id": "90194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90194", "title": "Mictlān", "text": "Mictlān\n\nMictlan () was the underworld of Aztec mythology. Most people who died went to Mictlan, although other possibilities existed (see \"Other destinations\", below). Mictlan consisted of nine distinct levels.\n\nThe journey from the first level to the ninth was difficult and took four years, but the dead were aided by the psychopomp, Xolotl. The dead had to pass many challenges, such as crossing a mountain range where the mountains crashed into each other, a field with wind that blew flesh-scraping knives, and a river of blood with fearsome jaguars.\n\nMictlan also features in the Aztec creation myth. Mictlantecuhtli set a pit to trap Quetzalcoatl. When Quetzalcoatl entered Mictlan, Mictlantecuhtli was waiting. He asked Quetzalcoatl to travel around Mictlan four times blowing a conch shell with no holes. Quetzalcoatl eventually put some bees in the conch shell to make sound. Fooled, Mictlantecuhtli showed Quetzalcoatl to the bones. But Quetzalcoatl fell into the pit and some of the bones broke. The Aztecs believed this is why people's height are different.\n\nMictlan was ruled by King Mictlantecuhtli (\"Lord of the Underworld\") and his wife, Mictecacihuatl (\"Lady of the Underworld\").\n\nOther deities in Mictlan included Cihuacoatl (who commanded Mictlan spirits called Cihuateteo), Acolmiztli, Chalmecacihuilt, Chalmecatl and Acolnahuacatl.\n\nThe nine regions of Mictlán (also known as Chiconauhmictlán) in Aztec mythology take shape within the Nahua worldview of space and time as parts of a universe composed of living forces. According to Mexica mythology, in the beginning there were two primordial gods, Omecíhuatl and Ometecuhtli, whose children became the creator gods. The names of these creator gods were Xipetótec, Tezcatlipoca, Quetzalcóatl, and Huitzilopochtli, and they inherited the art of creation from their parents. From the preexisting matter, after 600 years of inactivity Tezcatlipoca and Quetzalcóatl organized the vertical and horizontal universes, where the horizontal universe was composed of cardinal or hemispheric directions and the vertical universe was composed of two parts, a higher and a lower. The higher part was supported by four gigantic trees, growing in each corner of the Tlalocán (the central part of the universe). Such imagery is also found in the idea of a world tree, such as Yggdrasil in Norse mythology, Jian Mu in Chinese mythology or the Ashvattha fig in Hindu mythology. These trees impeded the joining of the Overworld (the higher world) and the Underworld (the lower world) to Tlaltícpac (the earth). The earth was a land formed from the body of Cipactli, the crocodilomorphic sea monster, and was a solid, living land that generated food for humankind. Cipactli was mother nature, from whom was created the surface and soil that was Tlaltícpac.\n\nThe myth recounts the following. From Cipactli's hair sprang trees, flowers and plants, from her skin sprang plains, valleys and river sediments, from her eyes came wells, caves and fountains, from her mouth sprang rivers, lakes and streams, from her nose came valleys, ranges and mesas, from her shoulders the saw-toothed mountain ranges, volcanoes and mountains. As they organized the universe horizontally and vertically, the four creator gods forged the pairs of gods who would control each area of power: the water (Tlaloc and Chalchiuhtlicue), the earth (Tlaltecuhtli and Tlalcíhuatl), fire (Xiuhtecuhtli and Chantico) and the dead (Mictlantecuhtli and Mictecacíhuatl).\n\nIn addition to Mictlan, the dead could also go to other destinations:\n\n"}
{"id": "23664487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23664487", "title": "Naseem Hamed", "text": "Naseem Hamed\n\nNaseem Hamed (; born 12 February 1974), commonly known as \"Prince\" Naseem or \"Naz\", is an English former professional boxer who competed from 1992 to 2002. He held multiple world championships at featherweight, including the WBO title from 1995 to 2000; the IBF title in 1997; and the WBC title from 1999 to 2000. He also reigned as lineal champion from 1998 to 2001; IBO champion from 2002 to 2003; and held the European bantamweight title from 1994 to 1995. Hamed is ranked as the best British featherweight boxer of all time by BoxRec. In 2015 he was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.\n\nHamed was known for his unconventional boxing antics and spectacular ring entrances which included entering the ring on a flying carpet, a lift, and a palanquin, as well as re-enacting the video of \"Michael Jackson's Thriller\", and wearing a Halloween mask. He was also known for his front somersault over the top rope into the ring, his highly athletic and hard-hitting southpaw boxing style, and formidable one-punch knockout power; having finished his career with a knockout-to-win ratio of 84%. In 2016, ESPN ranked Hamed at number 22 on its list of the top 25 pound-for-pound fighters of the last 25 years.\n\nHamed was born in Sheffield, Yorkshire, England to Yemeni parents, in 1974. A protege of Brendan Ingle's Wincobank gym, his talent and flashy southpaw style marked him out from an early age.\n\nHamed started boxing professionally at flyweight in 1992. He soon began rising through the ranks as he knocked out a series of opponents in the opening rounds. Age 20 he won the European bantamweight title, comprehensively beating the beleaguered Vincenzo Belcastro over twelve rounds. After one defence he won the WBC International super bantamweight title in 1994, overwhelming Freddy Cruz in Sheffield, whom he severely punished and stopped in six rounds. Hamed's popularity grew, his unorthodox style winning a large fan base and his boxing antics generating a large group of detractors. After signing for Frank Warren, Hamed, employing more spectacular entrances, knocked out better opposition in Enrique Angeles and Juan Polo Pérez, both within two rounds.\n\nLater in 1995, after controversially being named the WBO #1 featherweight contender (despite never having boxed at that weight), Hamed moved up to face Wales' defending WBO champion Steve Robinson. After dominating the bout and scoring a knockdown in round 5, Hamed won the title when the referee stopped the fight in round 8 after Robinson was caught with a left hook that dropped him spectacularly. The fight was held in front of Robinson's home crowd at the rugby ground, Cardiff Arms Park, with rain pouring down on the fighters and the ring. This was also the first bout where Hamed badly injured his hand, a problem that would continue for the rest of his career.\n\nHamed's next defence was in Dublin against former two-time world featherweight title holder Manuel Medina. After knocking Medina down heavily in round 2, Hamed struggled to finish the fight until finally knocking Medina down twice in the 10th round. Finally, at the end of round 11, Medina's corner withdrew him from the fight on the advice of the ringside doctor. Hamed revealed in his post-fight interview that he had fought with a heavy cold. Medina would go on to have many more tough title fights, remarkably winning versions of the featherweight world title another three times. Hamed's next opponent was the 27–0 Remigio Molina of Argentina, who was stopped in two rounds.\nIn February 1997, Hamed defeated long-time IBF champion Tom \"Boom Boom\" Johnson in eight rounds in a unification bout at the London Arena. After being constantly stunned and staggered from round 3 onwards, Johnson was finally dropped by a huge uppercut, then saved from further punishment by the referee. Hamed's first defence of both the WBO & IBF titles was a first-round KO of veteran British boxer and European champion Billy Hardy. Before the bout Hamed had correctly predicted he would win in round 1. The next defence was an easy two-round win against a hugely outclassed Juan Gerardo Carbrera. Due to boxing politics involving the IBF's mandatory challenger, Hamed was soon forced to relinquish the IBF title.\n\nIn Hamed's hometown of Sheffield in October 1997, he produced one of the best performances of his career in defending his WBO title against Jose Badillo, whose corner entered the ring to stop the fight during round 7.\n\nIn late 1997 Hamed made his heavily hyped U.S. debut. His ceremonious arrival on the British Airways Concorde was covered by multiple media outlets. There, he and former WBC title holder Kevin Kelley fought in a highly entertaining bout. This fight marks something of a watershed in Hamed's career, as he was forced, for the first time, to abandon his \"hands-down\" style of fighting throughout the entire course of the bout, given the calibre of Kelley. Nonetheless, despite suffering three knockdowns himself, Hamed put Kelley down for a third and final time to win by a fourth-round knockout. This was his first of many fights on HBO.\n\nIn 1998, Hamed enjoyed victories over former three-time WBA title holder and then-lineal champion Wilfredo Vazquez (TKO 7), former WBC bantamweight title holder Wayne McCullough (W 12), and future IBF title holder Paul Ingle (TKO 11; no relation to Hamed's then-former trainer Brendan Ingle).\n\nIn October 1999 at Joe Louis Arena, Detroit, Michigan, United States, Hamed defeated WBC featherweight champion Cesar Soto of Mexico over 12 rounds, adding the WBC title to his collection and unified the WBC & WBO titles. Hamed soon chose to relinquish his WBC title due to his commitment to being WBO champion.\n\nHad Vazquez not been stripped by the WBA of his belt (the WBA did not want their featherweight title unified with the WBO), Hamed would have had the distinction of winning all four world titles in a division, something only Riddick Bowe had achieved by that point, at heavyweight.\n\nIn March 2000 at Olympia, Kensington, London, Hamed knocked out former undefeated long-reigning IBF super bantamweight title holder, Vuyani Bungu of South Africa. The fight was ended with a single straight left hand, in one of Hamed's most impressive performances and biggest victories.\n\nHamed fought in August 2000 against Augie Sanchez at Foxwoods Resort, Mashantucket, Connecticut, United States. Sanchez is known for being the last American to defeat Floyd Mayweather as an amateur boxer.\n\nHamed successfully retained his WBO title for the fifteenth and final time against Sanchez via a devastating fourth-round knockout. Hamed broke his hand badly in the bout, and following surgery he spent half a year out of the gym, gaining 35 pounds in weight. Rather than face the unknown EBU Champion & WBO mandatory challenger István Kovács, Hamed relinquished his WBO title to pave the way for a Superfight with Marco Antonio Barrera.\n\nEight weeks prior to the fight, which took place at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas on 7 April 2001, Marco Antonio Barrera prepared to fight. Barrera had moved up a weight division. At the end of training camp he was in the best shape of his life. According to Sky Sports, Barrera had \"trained like a monk\" in Big Bear, California, while Hamed trained in Bing Crosby's old house. Emanuel Steward had arrived to oversee the last two weeks of Hamed's training, including sparring, and was worried immediately. He had seen Barrera look razor sharp only a few months before in a stoppage win in Las Vegas, and watched Hamed not take his sparring with young Mexicans seriously. The fight was also for the International Boxing Organization World featherweight title.\n\nBarrera handed Naseem Hamed his first and only loss for the lineal featherweight championship by a twelve-round decision. Before the fight, Hamed was a 3 to 1 betting favorite in Las Vegas. Hamed could not hit Barrera with his trademark lefts as Barrera circled to his left and worked both head and body. Barrera was not a fan of Hamed's antics and responded to Hamed's punches during clinches. On one occasion early in the fight, Hamed grabbed Barrera and they both fell to the ground where Barrera threw a right jab, leading to a warning from referee Joe Cortez. In the 12th and final round Barrera trapped Hamed in a full nelson and forced his head into the turnbuckle, resulting in a point deducted by referee Joe Cortez. Ultimately, Barrera threw more, harder punches and more impressive combinations than Hamed throughout the course of the fight. Barrera was awarded the victory via a unanimous decision, with the scorecards reading 115–112, 115–112, 116–111 and won the lineal and IBO featherweight titles. \n\nThe fight drew 310,000 pay-per-view buys on HBO. It was the highest-grossing featherweight bout ever in the United States.\n\nOn 18 May 2002 at London Arena, Docklands, London, Hamed returned to the ring for what turned out to be his final boxing match, against the European champion Manuel Calvo (33 wins, 4 losses, 1 draw) for the International Boxing Organization World featherweight title. Hamed was booed by the 10,000 fans as he won unconvincingly on points after 12 rounds looking sluggish and uninterested. The judges scored the fight 120-110 and 119-109 (twice). In a post-fight interview with Ian Darke, Hamed assured a quick return to the ring, which ultimately never happened. For years, Hamed did not confirm whether he had retired or not; there were talks of several fights in the UK and in the US, included Hamed's brother and manager, Riath, speaking to HBO about a potential fight with Michael Brodie.\n\nIn an interview for BBC Radio Sportsweek, Hamed said that his retirement was largely due to chronic problems with his hands, including multiple fractures as well as surgery.\n\nHamed's boxing career was seen by many experts in the sport as one of massive potential. Frank Warren, the boxing promoter, once said of Hamed: \"I think at one stage he was the most exciting fighter that I'd ever been involved with. At one stage, in the early part of his career, he could have gone on to become one of the great fighters. But that disappeared when he didn't fight as regularly as he should have done, when he was cutting corners on his training. It just didn't work out for him from that point on.\"\n\nMoreover, commentators have pointed out that Hamed's ability should have propelled him to achievements that would have given him legendary status, but that his noted dislike of the long hard training camps and long periods away from his family hindered this.\n\nAs popular lower weight fighters like Oscar De La Hoya and Kostya Tszyu moved into the mid-weight classes and the Mexican champion Julio César Chávez declined, Hamed and Arturo Gatti filled the void. Hamed's boxing antics made him the new poster-boy for lighter-weight boxers and his charisma attracted a large number of fans. In 2002 the UK public voted Hamed's victory over Kevin Kelley on the list of the 100 Greatest Sporting Moments.\n\nBritish boxing pundit Steve Bunce stated on 15 March 2008 edition of BBC panel show \"Fighting Talk\" that Hamed was the greatest British boxer of all time. \"World Boxing\", a sister publication of the more famous \"The Ring\" Magazine, ranked Hamed as the 11th greatest British boxer of all-time. \"The Ring\" also ranked Hamed as the 46th greatest puncher of all-time. Journalist Daniel Fletcher, in a 10-year anniversary commemoration of the end of Hamed's career, \"Requiem for Naseem\", referred to Hamed as \"the most talented fighter to ever live\", one of history's première featherweights and British boxers, and that while his career ended prematurely at the age of 28, he still managed to dominate his weight class for six years and boast some formidable achievements.\n\nHamed was part of the 2015 class for the International Boxing Hall of Fame. In 2016, ESPN ranked Hamed at number 22 on its list of the top 25 pound-for-pound fighters of the last 25 years.\n\nNaseem Hamed was an early inspiration for several future world champions from Britain and Ireland, including British boxers Amir Khan, James DeGale and Kell Brook, and Irish MMA fighter Conor McGregor; Hall of Fame referee Joe Cortez, who worked with McGregor in training sessions, compared McGregor's boxing style to Hamed, stating he \"had that little awkward style and he'll hit you with a punch from a different angle that you didn't see it coming from.\"\n\nHamed was referenced by hip-hop artist Nas in the song \"You Won't See Me Tonight\", with the lyrics \"I can't forget how I met you, you thought I was a boxer/ Prince Naseem, but I'm a mobster, Nas from Queens\". Hamed himself recorded a song with hip hop group Kaliphz called \"Walk Like a Champion\", which reached number 23 in the UK Singles Chart in 1996.\n\nHamed had a licensed sports fighting game, \"Prince Naseem Boxing\", published by Codemasters for the PlayStation console in 2000. A portable version of the game was also released for the Game Boy Color, developed by Virtucraft, which later in 2002 developed a Mike Tyson based follow-up, \"Mike Tyson Boxing\", for the Game Boy Advance.\n\nHamed also inspired a character called Prince Naseem in the fighting game \"Ehrgeiz\", released in 1998. While called \"Prince Naseem\" in the original Japanese version, the character's name was changed to \"Prince Doza\" in the Western versions, much like how Balrog's name was \"Mike Bison\" (based on Mike Tyson) in the original Japanese version of \"Street Fighter II\".\n\nHamed is a Muslim, and frequently recited the Takbir out loud before his fights.\n\nBy 1997, Hamed had an annual income of $14million (£) from fight purses and endorsements, ranking at number-22 on \"Forbes\" list of the world's highest-paid athletes for 1997. By March 1999, his net worth was an estimated £38million. By January 2001, Hamed had reportedly amassed a fortune of £50million ($). He earned over $48.5million from fight purses, including $8.5million from his fight against Barrera. Hamed was the second richest British boxer, after heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis.\n\nOn 2 May 2005 Hamed was involved in a 90-mph three-car collision at Ringinglow Road, Sheffield, while driving his £300,000 silver McLaren-Mercedes SLR. He was arrested on 3 May, released on bail and later charged at Sheffield Magistrates Court on 3 December.\n\nOn 31 March 2006 Hamed entered a plea of guilty and was warned he could face jail by a judge at Sheffield Crown Court. The Recorder of Sheffield, Judge Alan Goldsack, adjourned the case until 12 May to allow pre-sentence reports to be prepared. The court heard how the man in the car Hamed hit, later revealed as 38-year-old Anthony Burgin, who had attended a number of previous hearings, was unable to come to court because he was in hospital for further treatment. His wife Clare was also injured.\n\nOn 12 May the court heard in a sentencing hearing how Hamed had been anxious to impress businessman Asif Goro, who was a passenger in the McLaren-Mercedes at the time of the crash. Hamed was showing what his car could do when he crossed a solid white line at a speed of at least 90 mph and crashed head-on into a Volkswagen Golf that emerged from a dip in the road. Hamed's car then hit a second vehicle, the Ford Mondeo he had been trying to overtake. Mr. Burgin, the driver of the Volkswagen Golf, was very seriously injured, breaking every major bone in his body and suffering bruising to the brain. Hamed escaped unhurt.\n\nHamed was sentenced for 15 months after pleading guilty at an earlier hearing. He was also given a four-year driving ban. Judge Alan Goldsack told Hamed: \"I find it astonishing that the DVLA has not been prepared to cooperate with the prosecution to give them details of your earlier offences – apparently on human rights grounds.\" The DVLA's decision led to Hamed being sentenced without the judge being told he had previously been banned for a year for driving a Porsche at 110 mph on the M1 in Derbyshire. It was also revealed that Hamed had three other previous convictions for speeding offences, details of which the prosecution had to find from court records.\nHamed was granted an early release and left prison on 4 September 2006 after serving 16 weeks of the 15-month sentence. Hamed was placed under Home Detention Curfew for the remainder of his sentence, and monitored by an electronic tag.\n\nAnthony Burgin, the driver with whom Hamed collided, said: \"I am shocked that after such a serious accident Mr Hamed has been released after less than four months.\" After a recommendation from the Honours Forfeiture Committee, Hamed was later stripped of his MBE, annulled as a consequence of the conviction.\n\nThere was also a civil court case rumoured to cost Hamed up to £1 million plus legal costs, as Burgin was deemed unable ever to work again.\n\nBurgin was later arrested and charged with dangerous driving for an incident alleged to have involved Eleasha Hamed (the wife of Naseem) on 19 April 2007. Burgin pleaded not guilty, and appeared in court on 17 March 2008, following which he was cleared of charges.\n\nNaseem Hamed held the pay-per-view record in the United Kingdom up until he was surpassed by Lennox Lewis vs. Mike Tyson in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1102900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102900", "title": "Notostraca", "text": "Notostraca\n\nThe order Notostraca comprises the single family Triopsidae, containing the tadpole shrimp or shield shrimp. The two genera, \"Triops\" and \"Lepidurus\", are considered living fossils, having not changed significantly in outward form since the Triassic. They have a broad, flat carapace, which conceals the head and bears a single pair of compound eyes. The abdomen is long, appears to be segmented and bears numerous pairs of flattened legs. The telson is flanked by a pair of long, thin caudal rami. Phenotypic plasticity within taxa makes species-level identification difficult, and is further compounded by variation in the mode of reproduction. Notostracans are omnivores living on the bottom of temporary pools and shallow lakes.\n\nNotostracans are long, with a broad carapace at the front end, and a long, slender abdomen. This gives them a similar overall shape to a tadpole, from which the common name \"tadpole shrimp\" derives. The carapace is dorso-ventrally flattened, smooth, and bears no rostrum; it includes the head, and the two sessile compound eyes are located together on top of the head. The two pairs of antennae are much reduced, with the second pair sometimes missing altogether. The mouthparts comprise a pair of uniramous mandibles and no maxillipeds.\nThe trunk comprises a large number of \"body rings\", which appear to be body segments, but do not always reflect the underlying segmentation. The first eleven body rings compose the thorax and bear one pair of legs each, the last of which also bears the genital opening. In the female, it is modified to form a \"brood pouch\". The first one or two pairs of legs differ from the remainder, and probably function as sensory organs.\n\nThe remaining segments form the abdomen. The number of body rings is variable both within and between species, and the number of pairs of legs per body ring can rise as high as six. The legs become progressively smaller along the abdomen, with the last segments being legless.\n\nThe abdomen ends in a telson and a pair of long, thin, multi-articulate caudal rami. The form of the telson varies between the two genera: in \"Lepidurus\", a rounded projection extends between the caudal rami, while in \"Triops\" there is no such projection.\n\nWithin the Notostraca, and even within species, there is variation in the mode of reproduction, with some populations reproducing sexually, some showing self-fertilisation of females, and some showing a mix of the two. The frequency of males in populations is therefore highly variable. In sexual populations, the sperm leave the male's body through simple pores, there being no penis. The eggs are released by the female and then held in the cup-like brood pouch. The eggs are retained by the female only for a short time before being laid, and the larvae develop directly, without passing through a metamorphosis.\n\nNotostracans are omnivorous, eating small animals such as fishes and fairy shrimp. They are found worldwide in freshwater, brackish water or saline pools, as well as in shallow lakes, peat bogs and moorland. In Californian rice paddies, the species \"Triops longicaudatus\" is considered a pest, because it stirs up sediment, preventing light from reaching the rice seedlings.\n\nThe fossil record of Notostraca is extensive, occurring in a wide range of geological deposits, and reaching back to the Carboniferous. The lack of major morphological change since has led to Notostraca being described as a living fossil. Kazacharthra, a group known only from Triassic and Jurassic fossils from Kazakhstan and Western China, are closely related to notostracans, and may belong within the order Notostraca.\n\nThe \"central autapomorphy\" of the Notostraca is the abandonment of filter feeding in open water, and the development of a benthic lifestyle in muddy waters, taking up food from particles of sediment and preying on small animals. A number of other characteristics are correlated with this change, including the increased size of the animal compared to its relatives, and the loss of the ability to hinge the carapace; although a central keel marks the former separation into two valves, the adductor muscle is missing. Notostracans retain the plesiomorphic condition of having two separate compound eyes, which abut, but have not become united, as seen in other groups of Branchiopoda.\nThe order Notostraca is composed of a single family, Triopsidae, and only two genera, \"Triops\" and \"Lepidurus\".\n\nThe phenotypic plasticity shown by notostracan species make identification to the species level difficult. Many putative species have been described based on morphological variation, such that by the 1950s, as many as 70 species were recognised. Two important revisions – those of Linder in 1952 and Longhurst in 1955 – synonymised many taxa, and resulted in the recognition of only 11 species in the two genera. This taxonomy was accepted for decades, \"even attaining the status of dogma\". More recent studies, especially those employing molecular phylogenetics, have shown that the eleven currently recognised species conceal a greater number of reproductively isolated populations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "397028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397028", "title": "Omega Red", "text": "Omega Red\n\nOmega Red is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, most commonly in association with the X-Men. In 2009, Omega Red was ranked as IGN's 95th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nOmega Red first appeared in \"\" #4 (vol. 2, January 1992), and was created by Jim Lee and John Byrne.\n\nLittle is known about the past of Arkady Gregorivich Rossovich except that he was a serial killer born in Russia. He was captured by the Interpol agent Sean Cassidy and turned over to the KGB, which wanted to experiment and attempt to create a supersoldier similar to Captain America. Omega Red is the end result.\n\nIn another version of Omega Red's past, Arkady was a Soviet soldier stationed in a small Siberian town. He was a murderer; his crimes easily discoverable due to the town's small size and limited number of potential victims. He was caught by his fellow soldiers and summarily executed via a gunshot to the back of the head. His superiors are astonished when Arkady survives the execution, and recommend him for the aforementioned Soviet super soldier project, a brutal process; it is suggested that Arkady survives solely due to his evil and mean nature. He becomes an operative for Soviet intelligence and the KGB.\n\nThe Soviet government implanted a retractable carbonadium tentacle within each of Omega Red's arms. Carbonadium was the Soviets' attempt to recreate the artificial alloy known as adamantium, as Carbonadium is a more malleable form of adamantium. He uses them as weapons and as grappling appendages. He is able to a wrap a victim in his coils to literally drain them of their \"life\" energy. This vampiric tendency is essential to Omega Red's survival; the carbonadium implants, while great offensive weapons, slowly poisoned him and he was required to regularly drain the life energy of a person, or perhaps take small amounts from larger numbers of individuals, in order to temporarily sustain his immune system. In order to stabilize his condition, Omega Red requires the \"Carbonadium Synthesizer,\" a device that was stolen by Wolverine, Maverick, and Sabretooth during their final mission together as \"Team X\" and attempted rescue of double agent Janice Hollenbeck in the 1960s. It is because of his need for the Carbonadium Synthesizer that Omega Red has continuously sought out these three individuals over the years, believing they may know of its whereabouts. While Sabretooth and Maverick \"might\" have been aware of its location, it was eventually revealed that Wolverine actually \"does\" know where it is.\n\nOmega Red also battled John Wraith in Berlin at that time.\n\nAt some time in the past the Soviet government decided that Omega Red was too unpredictable and treacherous to be relied upon, and so needed to be put in cryogenic suspended animation until a method could be found to control him. After the fall of Communism in Russia he was revived from suspended animation by Matsu'o Tsurayaba, who led his own renegade faction of the clan of ninja known as The Hand. Omega Red became a warrior serving Matsu'o Tsurayaba and was led to believe that Wolverine knew the whereabouts of the Carbonadium Synthesizer which could save his life, and sought him out in an effort to find this device. In doing so, he came into conflict with the X-Men many times. In their first encounter in modern times, Omega Red captured Wolverine. He fought and defeated Wolverine, and brought him to Tsurayaba, Fenris, and Cornelius in Berlin. He battled the X-Men, and was wounded by Psylocke and defeated by the X-Men and Maverick but escaped. Later, Omega Red battled and fell under the mental control of the Soul Skinner in Siberia. The Soul Skinner then used him to battle Wolverine and the X-Men. Omega Red was able to subdue the team and capture Wolverine and Jubilee and was then sent to capture Colossus, who had retreated. Omega Red eluded capture by Wolverine after the Soul Skinner's death. He later fought against Chamber of Generation X, but suffered a humiliating defeat. Ultimately, Omega Red failed to eliminate Wolverine and proved to be no more loyal to the Hand than he was to the Soviet government.\n\nHe has worked for Neocommunist organizations and tried to kill a member of the Americomp organization, but was stopped by Daredevil and Black Widow.\n\nOmega Red was later employed by Russian gangster Ivan Pushkin to incite a war between the subversive terrorist organization HYDRA and the technology suppliers A. I. M.\n\nWhile working for the drug lord known as the General, Omega Red was recruited by Sabretooth to attack Wolverine's friends and family alongside Lady Deathstrike. Sabretooth had promised both Omega Red and Deathstrike information on almost every mutant on Earth, but betrayed his new henchmen by teleporting away with Wolverine, his ward Amiko, and the information.\n\nOmega Red is currently a crime lord (head of the Red Mafia) who poses as a legitimate business man, much like Wilson Fisk does in the U.S. At present, Omega Red has resumed his search for the Carbonadium Synthesizer. In \"Wolverine: Origins\" #6 and #7, Omega Red locates former Team X member, and now one of the numerous depowered mutants, Agent Zero a.k.a. Maverick, who is the only person that knows the location of the Carbonadium Synthesizer. This brings him into direct confrontation with Wolverine, who has also sought out Maverick in hopes of locating the Carbonadium Synthesizer. The result of this encounter is that Wolverine outsmarts Omega Red, landing him in the custody of S.H.I.E.L.D.\n\nMonths later it becomes known that the Red Room bought Omega Red's freedom with the hopes of using him to their own ends. Wolverine, Colossus, and Nightcrawler encounter him after he has freed himself from his master, however, and they engage in combat. Omega Red is largely impervious to Wolverine's claws; the Red Room had been experimenting on his body in an effort to enhance his healing factor. After Nightcrawler intervenes and knocks Omega Red unconscious, he is returned to S.H.I.E.L.D. custody.\n\nThanks to the enigmatic Romulus, Omega Red is transferred to a regular Russian prison to set a trap for Wolverine. Aided by Wild Child, their plan consisted of dropping Logan into molten steel. However, as Wild Child was preparing to finish the job, Omega Red interrupted him. While Wild Child and Omega Red battle each other, Logan managed to flee. A distracted Wild Child is consequently thrown into the molten steel by Omega Red after having his chest punctured.\n\nOmega Red was killed after being stabbed in the heart with the Muramasa blade by Wolverine.\n\nHe later appears in Hell attempting to attack Wolverine by binding him with his tentacles, but is quickly taken down when Wolverine grabs him by the tentacles and flips him over.\n\nThe body of Arkady Rossovich was later obtained by some Russian members of the Church of St. Mitrophan who, after a mystical ceremony, made by their magiks were able to raise Omega Red back to life. However the procedure is only temporary, as the grave will continue to call Arkady, nevertheless they reassure him that they will continue searching for a way to overcome this limitation. The limitation was eventually solved when the Russian Mafia used the abilities of X-Man Magik to restore Omega Red's to his fullest strength, but ultimately he was nevertheless defeated and delivered to the custody of S.I.C.K.L.E. (the Russia's version of S.H.I.E.L.D.).\n\nOmega Red is a mutant with superhuman strength, speed, stamina, durability, agility, and reflexes, and the ability to secrete pheromones from his body typically referred to as Death Spores. The death spores result in the weakness or death of humans in his immediate vicinity. The severity of the effect is based on the endurance, health, and relative proximity of the victims. The spores are fatal to ordinary humans within seconds, though some superhumanly powered beings can withstand exposure to them for extended periods of time.\n\nImplanted within Omega Red's arms are long retractable tendril-like coils made of carbonadium, an artificial alloy that is the former Soviet Union's attempt at creating true adamantium. Carbonadium is more malleable than adamantium and, while being vastly stronger than steel, is considerably less durable than adamantium. Carbonadium, however, is for all practical purposes virtually indestructible. Omega Red can cause the coils to shoot forward from openings in the undersides of his wrists in order to ensnare his victims. Omega Red is able to use the tentacles as highly effective offensive weapons, often brandishing them like whips during combat. The natural durability of the tentacles, combined with his physical strength, are sufficient to cause damage to most conventional materials.\n\nOmega Red also has superhuman levels of stamina sufficient to engage Wolverine in combat continuously for over eighteen hours with no signs of fatigue. His bodily tissues are harder and more resistant to certain types of injury than those of an ordinary human. While he is not invulnerable, his body can withstand great impact and blunt trauma forces that would result in severe injury or death in an ordinary human. However, his resistance to injury is considerably enhanced due to the red carbonadium armor that he wears, which has been sufficient to allow him to withstand powerful energy blasts from the likes of Chamber, and Wolverine's claws, without sustaining injury.\n\nOmega Red has the ability, and need, to drain the life force of victims with his pheromones in order to sustain his own. Omega Red can likewise ensnare his victims within his tentacles, and use the coils as a conduit for his lethal pheromones. Due to the mutant \"death factor\" and the presence of the carbonadium within his body, Omega Red must drain the life force of others on a regular basis in order to sustain his own physical health and remain active. Omega Red can use these absorbed energies to, temporarily, increase his body's healing capabilities to the point where he can fully heal from a punctured lung within a few minutes. Only a device known as the Carbonadium Synthesizer can stabilize his condition, as carbonadium is the only metal that can neutralize the \"death factor,\" thereby stabilizing it within his body.\n\nOmega Red is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant and military tactician. He was trained in various forms of armed and unarmed combat by both the Soviet government and various organizations throughout the Japanese and Russian criminal underworlds. Highly intelligent, he has quickly become highly skilled in the management of criminal organizations.\n\nFollowing the demise of Omega Red, a secret organization known as \"The White Sky\" which is specialized in growing and programming unique assassins to meet all their clients' expectations, were hired to create three \"clones\" from the remains of the original Omega Red. Each of these clones have different abilities from each other and they passionately hate X-Force just for the fact they were implanted with false memories to believe that X-Force members had killed their father.\n\nThe Omega Clan is composed by:\n\n\nWhen Wade Wilson tried to infiltrate the White Sky facility, he was discovered and battle the Omega Clan. He was quickly backed up by fellow X-Force members: Wolverine and Nightcrawler. Both of them were tortured by the three clones, until Deadpool managed to stop them by sending his own White Sky creation: Alpha Achromic.\n\nSoon after that battle, the Omega Clan revealed itself as part of Daken's Brotherhood.\n\nThe whole Brotherhood hid for a time in an underwater secret base, in order to push Evan Sabahnur, Apocalypse's clone, into the Brotherhood's own Apocalypse\n\nWhen X-Force infiltrated the base, Omega Black was the one along Daken and Blob to stop Deadpool while he was trying to extract Evan. After being captured, Wade was inspected by Sylvia in order to remove his telepathic dampening device, and once Farouk had probed his mind, Omega Black was asked to kill Wade by filling his head with cancer.\n\nIntent on doing what was asked of her, she tried to finish the job by beating him up with a wrench, only stopping when she was asked to bring Evan to see Wolverine drowning, in order to push him to wear the Celestial Armor and ascend as Apocalypse. As Daken was beating him to death to make him reveal his nature as Wolverine, Omega Black stopped him and brought the boy back to the torture room with Deadpool, and then left, while Evan wore the Celestial Armor to end this.\n\nWith the Celestial Armor on, Evan fought back and freed his friends, seemingly killing Omega Red in the process. Omega White tried to avenge his \"brother\" but Psylocke mind-controlled him in order to absorb the Shadow King's, and then erased Omega White's mind, leaving the Shadow King trapped in a brain-dead corpse. With the Brotherhood tore apart Black Omega was somehow able to escape the base. Omega White's body was later entrusted to Brian Braddock's care \n\nIt was revealed that Omega Red was able to survive Evan's attack and started a mercenary career, working for Roxxon. When he clashed with Deadpool, he tried to have revenge on him for the false memories implanted on him. After clashing with Deadpool numerous times, the mercenary convinced him that the memories of his past were false, and that just like him, Omega Red needed to realize he wouldn't be controlled by those who transformed them into monsters. Both called a truce, and Omega Red left Deadpool alone, unless he discovered he had actually murdered his family.\n\nOmega Black has since reappeared too, with the revelation that she had become a vessel for Shadow King which the Crimson Pirates were supposed to give to Tullamore Voge.\n\nIn the \"Return of Wolverine\" miniseries, Omega Red appeared as a masked sniper at a work camp owned by Soteira. A revived wolverine sees him shooting a fleeing scientist. Upon Wolverine returning fire, Omega Red shoots out the front tire of Wolverine's motorcycle. While on the ocean, Omega Red and a revived Daken attack the speedboat that Wolverine and Ana are on. Omega Red is shot off the boat by Ana using the speedboat's harpoon gun.\n\nIn the \"Age of Apocalypse\" timeline, there is a different version of Omega Red known only as Rossovich. Instead of a homicidal maniac, Rossovich appeared more sane and business-like. He had ties to the mutant underground and the black market.\n\nAfter the death of Apocalypse and the ascension of Weapon X into Weapon Omega, the heir of Apocalypse, it was mentioned that Rossovich had returned to his country where under the alias of Omega Red had built an army strong enough to overrun most of Asia and Eastern Europe with relative ease. When Weapon Omega was eventually deposed, the threat from Omega Red to the East was expected, yet the first wave never came and it never would, as Omega Red had been given the knowledge that the canister containing the Apocalypse power was now in Prophet’s possession.\n\nIn the \"Days of Future Now\" story, Omega Red is a member of X-Force.\n\nIn the Ultimate Marvel Universe, Omega Red is an enemy of Spider-Man. He is depicted as a mutant with a hatred of humans. At some point, he had been hired to attack a cargo ship belonging to Roxxon Industries as a conspiracy against its leader Donald Roxxon. After his fight with Spider-Man, he was arrested by S.H.I.E.L.D. However, he managed to escape when the Green Goblin escaped. His defeat by Spider-Man became public knowledge because of articles written by J. Jonah Jameson detailing his humiliation. Subsequently, his former clients blacklisted him. He blamed Jameson for the loss of his livelihood. When Jameson began writing articles critical of Roxxon, Omega Red went to the Daily Bugle office disguised as a janitor and ambushed Jameson in his office with the intent to do Roxxon a high-profile favor and restore his mercenary career. Unfortunately, Peter Parker happened to be in the Bugle office that day. Changing into his Spider-Man costume and bursting through Jameson's office window, he quickly subdued Omega Red, ultimately knocking him unconscious with a vending machine. His tentacles extend from the tops of his wrists instead of the bottom and appear to be organic, not artificial. He has demonstrated superhuman strength. He is later imprisoned in S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Triskelion, and freed in a breakout by Electro hired by Norman Osborn along with Kraven, and Gwen Stacy, aka Carnage.\n\nSeveral months later after the death of Spider-Man, Omega Red is seen resuming his work but is stopped by the second Spider-Man.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16244387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16244387", "title": "Paula Jean Welden", "text": "Paula Jean Welden\n\nPaula Jean Welden (October 19, 1928 – disappeared December 1, 1946) was an American college student who disappeared while walking on Vermont's Long Trail hiking route, the scene of several other unexplained disappearances around this time. The local sheriffs were criticised for their poor investigation, and this led to the creation of the Vermont State Police.\n\nPaula Welden was the eldest of four daughters of the well-known industrial engineer, architect and designer William Archibald Welden (1900–1970) and his wife Jean Douglas (b at Mount Kisco, New York, 1901–d. at Venice, Florida, 1976), née Wilson, of Brookdale Road, Stamford, Connecticut. Employed by the Revere Copper and Brass Company, W. Archibald Welden was the designer of many familiar household utensils, as well as stylish cocktail shakers and other objects. Paula was a 1945 graduate of Stamford High School.\n\nIn 1946, Welden was a sophomore at Bennington College in North Bennington, Vermont. Her college dormitory was Dewey House one of the older dormitories on the college grounds, and which remains to this day. She was an art major but, dissatisfied with the faculty and her progress, was contemplating changing her major; she had discovered a newfound love of botany. Welden, a typical student, was sorting out her own interests from those of her parents and was trying to expand her circle of friends. She and her roommate were quite close and both realized how dependent they were on one another for a social life. Paula started to befriend other students and became involved in square dancing and hiking with groups of friends from Bennington College and Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts.\n\nWelden worked part-time at the dining hall in The Commons on campus. On Sunday, December 1 she worked the lunch shift. She decided to find and walk a portion of the Long Trail, a few miles from the campus. Paula knew of the famous trail but hadn't yet had an opportunity to hike it. She tried to get some other students to join her that day, but they were busy. Paula went by herself.\n\nAfter finishing her shift in the dining hall, Welden returned to her room and changed into walking clothes. Her clothing was adequate for the weather that afternoon but not for the anticipated drop in temperature that night. She packed no bag, took no extra clothing, and did not take any extra money. From all appearances, she did not expect to be gone more than a few hours. Welden walked down the campus driveway and hitched a ride from State Route 67A near the college entrance in North Bennington to a point on State Route 9 near the Furnace Bridge between downtown Bennington and Woodford Hollow. Local contractor Louis Knapp picked her up and drove her as far as his house on Route 9, about from the Long Trail. From this point, Welden either hitchhiked or walked the rest of the way to the start of the Long Trail in Woodford Hollow.\n\nA group of hikers were walking down the trail as Welden was walking up. She approached them and asked them a few questions about the Long Trail. She continued walking in a northerly direction on the road portion of the trail now known as Harbour Road. Welden was on the Long Trail late in the afternoon and darkness was falling as she approached the end of Harbour Road. She may have continued into quickly darkening woods and it was presumed that she must have continued her Long Trail walk along the Bolles Brook valley, although there are no known confirmed sightings of her past the Fay Fuller Camp.\n\nWelden didn't return to campus. Her roommate thought she must have gone to the library to study for exams, but the next morning, Welden still hadn't returned. Once the college administrators were notified, they immediately started a search of the campus itself. The Bennington County State's Attorney was notified, and the county sheriff was brought in to help with the search. Over the next couple of days, her visit to the Long Trail was discovered when one of the hikers she had approached identified her from the photo in the \"Bennington Banner\" newspaper, where he worked.\n\nWeeks of searching ensued. The college closed for several days, and the students and faculty participated in organized searches. Hundreds of volunteers, family members, National Guard troops, students, and firefighters searched for her to no avail. Ground and air searches concentrated on the Long Trail up as far as Glastenbury Mountain (ten miles to the north), the trail's various branches, and along Vermont Route 9 from Bennington to Brattleboro. Most of those searching assumed Paula had gotten lost in the woods. When no clues were found as to her whereabouts, other theories started to be considered.\n\nAlternative theories speculated that she had been in unusually high spirits and had decided to run away to start a new life, was going to meet a secret lover and went off with him, or had become injured and suffered from amnesia. Darker theories speculated that Paula was depressed and may have committed suicide, she might have been kidnapped or murdered.\n\nAt the time of Paula's disappearance, there was no state police organization in Vermont, and the state's attorney, county sheriff and state investigator Almo Franzoni were responsible for the investigation. Paula's father pressed the investigators and the governor to bring in additional professional law enforcement help. Vermont's governor asked Connecticut's governor to lend assistance. Connecticut State Police detective Robert Rundle and state policewoman Dorothy Scoville were assigned to the case. They interviewed every person who saw, or thought they saw Paula, every person who lived along the route she took or who were simply in the vicinity of the Long Trail on that December afternoon.\n\nInvestigators discovered that one of the last people to see Paula alive was a man who lived along Harbour Road. He was in the midst of an argument with his girlfriend when she walked by. The man stormed off in a jealous rage shortly thereafter and depending on different statements he made, he went to his shack and spent the evening by himself, or he drove his truck up the travel portion of the trail (where Paula was heading). He lied to police on several occasions and was a person of interest in 1946 and again in 1952 when the case was revisited. Reportedly, he told at least two people that he knew within a hundred feet where Paula was buried but later claimed it was just idle talk. When no evidence was found that a crime had actually been committed, no body was ever discovered, and no forensic clues were identified, this avenue of the investigation ended.\n\nThe manner in which Paula's disappearance was handled was sharply criticized by Paula's father and many others. He pointed out that the lack of a statewide law enforcement organization and the lack of training of local sheriffs contributed to a poorly run investigation. Within seven months of Paula's disappearance, the Vermont legislature created the Vermont State Police.\n\nIn the same general area where Welden disappeared, at least four other unexplained vanishings were reported to have taken place between 1945 and 1950. Due to the strangeness of these events, Vermont broadcaster and author Joseph A. Citro dubbed the wilderness area northeast of Bennington \"the Bennington Triangle\" – a reference to unexplained disappearances in the Bermuda Triangle.\n\nAuthor Shirley Jackson (1916–1965) was inspired by Welden's vanishing when she wrote her novel \"Hangsaman\" (1951), as indicated by Jackson's papers in the Library of Congress. At the time of Welden's disappearance in 1946, Shirley Jackson was living in North Bennington, Vermont, where her husband was employed at Bennington College. Jackson's short story \"The Missing Girl\", included in \"Just An Ordinary Day\" (the 1996 collection of her previously unpublished/uncollected short stories), also references the Welden case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30985752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30985752", "title": "Permocalculus", "text": "Permocalculus\n\nPermocalculus is a genus of red algae known from Permian to Cretaceous strata. Closely aligned to \"Gymnocodium\", it is placed in the Gymnocodiaceae.\n"}
{"id": "52900641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52900641", "title": "Peter Bransgrove", "text": "Peter Bransgrove\n\nCharles Alfred \"Peter\" Bransgrove (April 7, 1914 -January 26, 1966) was an architect who mostly worked in Dar es Salaam but also in other parts of Tanganyika, Kenya and Uganda. Born in Kingston, Surrey, England on 7 April 1914 he was the fourth child to Sidney and Julie Bransgrove. He studied at the School of Architecture at the Regent Street Polytechnic in London and at the Royal Academy of Architecture, also in London. In 1947 he was employed as an architect for the Tanganyika Groundnut Scheme. When Peter's role in the scheme came to an end in 1948, he moved from Kongwa to Dar es Salaam and opened the first independent architectural practice in Dar es Salaam, C. A. Bransgrove & Partners. His design style was a climate-driven version of the Modernist movement.\n\nModernism in Architecture was a result of both advancement in technology and fabrication, as well as social enlightenment, that swept through the Western World soon after the First World War. Walter Gropius founded the Bauhaus, Le Corbusier published his \"ideas\" about architecture and by the end of the 1920s, Mies van der Rohe had built the Barcelona Pavilion.\n\nPeter finished primary school in 1926 and in 1927, at the age of thirteen, was enrolled into the School of Architecture at the Regent Street Polytechnic in London. From an early age he was exposed to the new architectural style of the day. It was an exciting period to be part of, with old traditional ways of designing a building opposed to the new movement of thinking sweeping Europe and North America. There would have been much discussion between those 'for' and those 'against'.\n\nHaving completed five years at the Polytechnic, Peter was employed by the architect Herbert William Matthews in 1934, located at 1 Manchester Square, London. Later (1943), in Peter's nominations papers to be accepted into the Royal Institute of British Architects, Mr Matthews writes:\n\n\"For some years he (Peter) was Principal Assistant in my office. I regard him as a very competent architect and a person of integrity and suitable for election to the RIBA.\" \n\nIn 1935, Peter was accepted into the Royal Academy of Architecture. It is quite likely that he continued to work in the office of Mr Matthews during this time. Whilst at the Royal Academy, Peter won many prizes for his student work, including:\n1935 – 1st Landseer Prize (£15) and silver medal for a set of measured drawings of any building or part of a building.\n1938 – 1st Landseer Prize (£20), silver medal and a hand-bound with tooled leather book on \"discourses\" (lectures) by Sir Joshua Reynolds for An Architectural Design.\n1939 – RA Gold medal and \"Edward Stott Travelling Studentship\" (£200), for the architectural design of a Campo Santo (holy field and Crematorium). This is the highest award given to students of Architecture.\n\nHaving completed his time at the Academy in 1939, Peter may have left his place of employment to work for various Government Departments. The war in Europe had begun and it would have been difficult to find work.\n\nIn 1942, during the Second World War, Peter was stationed in Bangalore, India as a \"Sapper\" (Royal Engineers) Captain, where he was involved in defusing bombs. On his return to England in 1944, Peter resumed his employment with Herbert William Matthews. During this time he also carried out commissions under his own name, mostly around reconstructive work of bomb affected housing.\n\nHe passed his Registration Final in London in 1944 and was accepted into the RIBA as an Associate in 1945. By 1946 he had taken up work for the Ministry of Works and Planning.\n\nAfter the war, Britain was stretched financially. All round the world they had assets that had been shipped to various theatres of war and were left idle and unused. In Tanganyika, there was a large amount of civil works machinery that was going to have to be abandoned. At the same time the Overseas Food Corporation saw the need to supply the world with more vegetable oils from nuts, but required civil engineering equipment to make it work. Hence the Tanganyika Groundnut Scheme was formed and in 1947 Peter took up the opportunity to be involved.\n\nAPPOINTMENTS\nMr. C. A. Bransgrove [A] has been appointed Chief Architect to Messrs. Pauling & Co., Ltd., Civil Engineering Contractors for the groundnut project in Tanganyika. He will be pleased to receive trade catalogues, etc., from firms interested in exporting to East Africa. His address is P.O. Kongwa, Tanganyika, East Africa.\n\nPauling & Co., Ltd. were employed by the United Africa Company to undertake ground clearance.\n\nBy 1948, either the demise of the Scheme was becoming apparent or the work for architects was complete. Whatever the reason, Peter's involvement in the Groundnut Scheme came to an end. In lieu of payment for himself and his new family to return to England, he accepted a plot of land, owned by the Overseas Food Corporation, in the suburb of Kurasini in Dar es Salaam. Here he designed and built the family house that they would live in until the completion of Luther House in 1963. The family then moved into the penthouse of Luther House, which adjoined the practice offices on the fifth floor.\n\nIn the same year Peter opened the first independent architectural practice in Dar es Salaam. C. A. Bransgrove & Partners was based in TanCott House and one of his first employees was Alf \"Tigger\" Hastings. A few years after, Hastings left the practice to set up his own office and co-founded the practice of French & Hastings. Both French and Hastings were possibly with the Royal Engineers during the war.\n\nAnother notable name to be employed by Peter was H. L. \"Sukhi\" Shah. His father Luvji Kara Shah, was the bookkeeper for C. A. Bransgrove. Sukhi joined the practice with an eye to becoming an architect. He was shipped off to England in 1952 by his father to attend the Regent Street Polytechnic and studied architecture between 1952-1958. He started his own practice on his return to Dar es Salaam in 1960.\n\nJoe Herbert Betts joined Peter as a Partner in the early days of the practice and became sole owner of C. A. Bransgrove and Partners for a further four years after Peter's death. A month after the passing of Peter, an architect by the name of Raymond Howes was met off the plane from Australia by Joe Betts to join the practice and stayed until 1971. During that time Joe and Raymond designed many buildings in Dar and other locations in Tanzania. In 1970 the practice was taken over by Jackson Hill Architects. The practice of Jackson Hill was incorporated into the firm of Covell Matthews Partnership Ltd, Tanzania in 1972.\n\nPeter was involved in many projects and building types throughout Tanganyika, Kenya and Uganda. Mostly however they were in Dar es Salaam and included high rise office blocks, low rise offices, schools, hospitals, hostels, churches, post offices, embassies and private residences.\n\nMost notably, the countries for which Peter designed houses for their Consuls were:\nAmerica: Robert A. McKinnon (Consul) and William B. Edmondson (Vice-Consul). Both houses were on Queens Drive (now Toure Drive), Oyster Bay.\nHolland: Ernst Henry van Eeghen. Queens Drive (now Toure Drive), Oyster Bay.\nBelgium: 3 houses on Upanga Rd (now Ali Hassan Mwinyi Rd), Oyster Bay.\nBritish High Commission: originally designed for Antoniou at #1 Kingsway (now Kenyatta Drive), Oyster Bay.\nItaly: originally designed for Amir Karimjee on Kingsway Drive (now 104 Kenyatta Drive), Oyster Bay. \n\nDuring the early 1960s, Peter made a number of trips to Rome to the architectural firm of Whiting Associates International, to co-design the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre in Moshi, Tanzania for the Protestant Churches in the country, known collectively as The Good Samaritan Foundation.\n\nThere is no denying that Peter's design style was a climate-driven version of the Modernist movement. Known simply as \"tropical modernism\", the term and therefore type of architecture was a direct mix of both the \"international style\" of the time and that of the location and requirement to address the heat by ensuring any breeze was unhindered through the building and at the same time deny the sun direct access. Usually based on a grid system, there was a notable lack of fanciful adornment and a strong sense of simplicity. The climate to a certain extent dictated the type of materials used and the methods employed to combat the heat and humidity.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1955 he was a member of the Dar es Salaam City Council and he also served on the Tanganyika Advisory Council for Education and the National Housing Corporation. In 1961, Peter had helped to set up the International School of Tanganyika. At the time of his death in 1966 he was chairman of the International School Board of Directors.\n\nOn 10 April 1956 Peter put forward a Patent for \"louvre blocks\" for use in building in the tropics:\n\n\"The concrete building block comprises two parallel end panels united by one or more inclined webs extending upwardly from the front edges of the panels to the rear thereof. The blocks are laid in superposed courses, to form louvres, the web having an upward extension which fits between the end panels of the block above it. Keying grooves are provided at the ends of the block.\"\n\nMany of his buildings used this concrete block for ventilation as well as preventing both direct sunlight and rain to enter.\n\nPeter has been described by current architects and researchers as a leading exponent of the Modernist style in Tanzania during that period and an architect to be admired and extolled for what he contributed during his time. \"He shaped a considerable part of the old city centre of Dar es Salaam in the fifties and sixties.\"\n\nPeter died in Nairobi Hospital on 26 January 1966, aged 51.\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nClient: British Legion\nCompletion Date: 1952\nAddress: Main Avenue (Sokoine Drive) and Said Bargash Street (Algeria Street)\nBuilding type: commercial\nBuilding usage: office building\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nVariant names: Hifadhi House (current), First Permanent Building Society of Tanganyika, Permanent House\nCompletion Date: 1961, refurbishment 1999\nAddress: Ingles Street (Azikiwe Street) and Acacia Avenue (Samora Avenue)\nBuilding type: commercial\nBuilding usage: office building/complex\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nVariant names: Luther House Hostel (Variant)\nCompletion Date: 1963\nClient: Christian Council of Tanganyika\nAddress: Main Avenue (Sokoine Drive) opposite Byatt Road (Pamba Road)\nBuilding type: commercial\nBuilding usage: office building/hotel\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nVariant names: Burton Street School, Junior European School, Bunge Primary School (Current)\nCompletion Date: 1957\nClient: The European Education Authority and the P.W.D.\nAddress: Burton Street (Shaarban Robert Road)\nBuilding type: government\nBuilding usage: education\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nVariant names: NMB Bank House (Current)\nCompletion Date: 1955\nAddress: Acacia Avenue (Samora Avenue) and Byatt Road (Pamba Road)\nBuilding type: commercial\nBuilding usage: bank offices\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nClient: Lint & Seed Marketing Board\nCompletion Date: 1958 (original 2 storey), 1962 (current, shown)\nAddress: Garden Avenue and Byatt Road (Pamba Road)\nBuilding type: commercial\nBuilding usage: office building/complex\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nClient: East African Posts and Telecommunications Corp.\nCompletion Date: 1969\nAddress: Ingles Street (Azikiwe Street)\nBuilding type: government\nBuilding usage: post office\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nVariant names: Young Women's Christian Association (Variant), YWCA Hostel (Variant)\nDesign: Joe Betts\nCompletion Date: 1969\nAddress: Ingles Street (Azikiwe Street) and Gymkhana Avenue (Ghana Street)\nClient: YWCA of Tanzania\nBuilding type: commercial\nBuilding usage: hotel\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nVariant names: Tanganyika Standard Newspaper Offices (Variant)\nCompletion Date: 1952, later additions\nAddress: Ingles Street (Maktaba Street)\nBuilding type: commercial\nBuilding usage: demolished\n\nDar es Salaam, Tanzania\nVariant names: Sultan Street Post Office (Original name)\nCompletion Date: 1956\nAddress: Sultan Street (Libya Street) and South Street\nBuilding type: government\nBuilding usage: post office\nThis article was written and compiled by Graham Hutton B.Arch., who is a grandson of C.A. \"Peter\" Bransgrove.\n\nGovernment European School, Burton Street, Dar es Salaam, now known as Bunge Primary School, Shaarban Robert Road\n"}
{"id": "6142194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6142194", "title": "Pottu Amman (Tamil militant)", "text": "Pottu Amman (Tamil militant)\n\nShanmugalingam Sivashankar (; 1962 – 18 May 2009; commonly known by the nom de guerre Pottu Amman) was a Sri Lankan Tamil rebel and leading member of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, a separatist Tamil militant organisation in Sri Lanka.\n\nSivashankar was born in 1962. He was from Nayanmaarkattu near Ariyalai in northern Ceylon. He was the son of Shanmugalingam (Shanmuganathan), a clerk working in the up-country region. He was educated at Maheswari Vidyalayam, Canagaratnam Madhya Maha Vidyalayam (Stanley College) and Jaffna Hindu College.\n\nSivashankar was a supporter of Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) MP V. Yogeswaran and once when they met Sivashankar slashed his forearm and daubed Yogeswaran's forehead with blood. Sivashankar started bleeding excessively, fainted and was taken to hospital. It is believed that he got the nickname \"Pottu\" (Tamil for tilak) from this incident.\n\nSivashankar married a woman from the Batticaloa region and had a son and daughter.\n\nSivashankar joined the militant Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 1981 along with T. Sivanesan (Soosai). He took on the nom de guerre \"Pottu\". Seniority in the LTTE resulted in his nom de guerre \"Pottu\" being suffixed by \"Amman\" (uncle). After being trained he served briefly as LTTE leader V. Prabhakaran's bodyguard. He was then sent to Tamil Nadu, India to be in charge of the shore operations in the Vedaranyam area. In 1985, whilst he was in charge of the LTTE's camp in Vedaranyam, he was abducted by rival militant group People's Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam (PLOTE). Talks mediated by a former TULF MP failed to result in Pottu Amman's release and so the LTTE's Shankar abducted PLOTE member Jotheeswaran (alias Kannan) who was later exchanged for Pottu Amman.\n\nPottu Amman returned to Sri Lanka in 1987. He was sent to the Eastern Province where he was the LTTE's associate commander for Batticaloa District. He clashed often with the ambitious Karuna Amman who wanted to eastern regional commander. One of the factors leading to Karuna's defection to the Sri Lankan government in 2004 was his rivalry with Pottu Amman. Pottu Amman was recalled to Jaffna and in October 1987, when war had erupted between the LTTE and the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF), he was sent to Tamil Nadu to co-ordinate the flow of supplies from India to Sri Lanka. He was briefly jailed in India for smuggling. He returned to Jaffna to take part in military operations against the IPKF and was briefly Jaffna commander. After being injured in the stomach he moved to the Vanni to recover.\n\nAfter recovering Pottu Amman was put in charge of the Tiger Organization Security Intelligence Service (TOSIS), the LTTE's intelligence wing, in mid 1988. Following the IPKF withdrawal in March 1990 and under Pottu Amman's leadership, TOSIS expanded greatly and became a formidable organisation, copying the tactics of Inter-Services Intelligence, Mossad and Shin Bet. As chief of TOSIS, Pottu Amman is believed to have masterminded the assassinations of Rajiv Gandhi, Ranasinghe Premadasa, Ranjan Wijeratne, Clancy Fernando and many others. He also played a key role in the unmasking of the \"conspiracy\" against LTTE leader V. Prabhakaran by deputy leader Mahattaya. Pottu Amman is believed to have tortured Mahattaya and extracted his \"confession\". In 1993 two separate divisions were created in TOSIS - National Intelligence Division and Military Intelligence Service. Pottu Amman was in charge of the National Intelligence Division as well as being in overall charge of TOSIS. He was later in charge of the LTTE's Chiruththaigal (leopard) commando division. In 1997 he was appointed military commander of Jaffna peninsula.\n\nIn March 2008 Prabhakaran, Pottu Amman and four other LTTE members were charged with the assassination of Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar in August 2005.\n\nWhat happened to Pottu Amman, like many senior LTTE members, in the final staged of the civil war in 2009 remains shrouded in mystery and prone to wild speculations and rumours. Officially Pottu Amman was killed in the early hours of 18 May 2009 as he, Colonel Letchumanan and other LTTE cadres tried to cross the Nanthi Kadal in a boat and were fired upon by Sri Lankan soldiers.\n\nAccording to the Sri Lankan military the wife of Soosai, head of the Sea Tigers, had told them during interrogation that Pottu Amman, together with Soosai, Prabhakaran and Prabhakaran's son Charles Anthony, had remained in the war zone in the final days of the war. The military claimed to have killed 18 senior LTTE members, including Pottu Amman, during the final battle of the civil war on 18 May 2009. They also claimed to have intercepted LTTE communication confirming Pottu Amman's death. The military initially claimed to have identified the body of Pottu Amman but later admitted that they weren't certain that they had found his body.\n\nIn September 2009 Deputy Solicitor-General Kapila Waidyaratne informed the Colombo High Court that Prabhakaran and Pottu Amman had been killed in May 2009 in Karaithuraipatru and that their names should be removed from those charged with Kadirgamar's assassination. Judge Kumudini Wickremasinghe approved the changes, judicially confirming Pottu Amman's death. In March 2010 the Sri Lankan government asked Interpol to remove Pottu Amman from its most wanted list. In October 2010 the charges against Prabhakaran and Pottu Amman in relation to the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi were dropped after the Central Bureau of Investigation filed a report stating that the pair were dead.\n\nThe failure of the Sri Lankan military to produce Pottu Amman's body has fueled the belief that he survived the civil war. Some have theorised that Pottu Amman escaped whilst others claim that he was captured by the Sri Lankan military and was being held captive in a secret location. In September 2014 reports appeared claiming that Pottu Amman had been arrested in Hong Kong and brought back to Sri Lanka. The Sri Lankan military dismissed the reports, saying that, although they hadn't found his body, they knew that Pottu Amman had been killed in the final stages of the civil war. In March 2016 the \"Divaina\" reported that Pottu Amman was living with his family in Tamil Nadu, India using the name \"Kuruttu\".\n"}
{"id": "20690093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20690093", "title": "SS Empire Adur", "text": "SS Empire Adur\n\nSS \"Empire Adur was a 1,479 ton steamship which was built in 1920 as the Griffdu. She was renamed Noyo in 1935 and in 1940 was sold to Thailand, being renamed Nang Suang Nawa\", being seized in 1942 and renamed \"Empire Adur\". She was sold to Thailand in 1948, reverting to \"Nang Suang Nawa\" and was lost at sea in 1955 while being towed to Hong Kong for scrapping.\n\n\"Griffdu\" was built by J F Duthie & Co, Seattle, Washington. She was the 37th and last ship built by Duthie. \"Griffdu\" was launched on 20 September 1920, and completed the following month. Her original owner was the Universal Steamship & Barge Co, Seattle. In 1925, \"Griffdu\" was sold to The Charles Nelson Co, San Francisco, serving with them for ten years. In 1935, \"Griffdu\" was sold to the Union Lumber Co, San Francisco, who renamed her \"Noyo\". She served for five years before being sold to the Thai Niyom Panich Co, (\"Thai Navigation Co Ltd\") Bangkok, who reflagged her and renamed her \"Nang Suang Nawa\". In 1942, \"Nang Suang Nawa\" was seized, and passed to the Ministry of War Transport and renamed \"Empire Adur\". She was placed under the management of the Singapore Straits Steamship Company.\n\n\"Empire Adur\" was not a popular member of convoys due to the condition of her boilers, and the fact that she would belch black smoke and flames from her funnel. The convoy escorts threatened to ask \"Empire Adur\" to leave the convoy or sink her. Another of her faults was that the nut holding the steering wheel on often came loose, with the result that the wheel came off in the helmsman's hands.\n\n\"Empire Adur\" joined Convoy KMS 21 at Gibraltar on 29 July 1943, arriving at Port Said on 9 August. \"Empire Adur\" had a final destination of Tripoli and Alexandria.\n\nIn 1948, \"Empire Adur\" was sold to the Thai Maritime Navigation Co, Bangkok and regained her former name of \"Nang Suang Nawa\". She served for a further seven years but went missing under tow by the Philippines registered tug \"Albacore\" to Hong Kong for scrapping. Both vessels were presumed lost. Her last reported position was north of the Paracel Islands at on 23 November 1955.\n\nOfficial Numbers were a forerunner to IMO Numbers.\n\n\"Griffdu\" and \"Noyo\" had the US Official Number 220755.\n\"Nang Suang Nawa\" and \"Empire Adur\" had the UK Official number 166215.\n\n\"Griffdu\" and \"Noyo\" used the Code Letters KJLP. \"Nang Suang Nawa\" used the Code Letters VSTP. \"Empire Adur\" used the Code Letters BFBW.\n\n"}
{"id": "167148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167148", "title": "Satyagraha", "text": "Satyagraha\n\nSatyagraha (; satya: \"\"truth\", graha: \"insistence\" or \"holding firmly to\"\") or holding onto truth\"\" or truth force – is a particular form of nonviolent resistance or civil resistance. Someone who practices satyagraha is a satyagrahi.\n\nThe term \"satyagraha\" was coined and developed by Mahatma Gandhi (1869–1948). He deployed satyagraha in the Indian independence movement and also during his earlier struggles in South Africa for Indian rights. Satyagraha theory influenced Martin Luther King Jr.'s and James Bevel's campaigns during the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, and many other social justice and similar movements.\n\nThe term originated in a competition in the news-sheet \"Indian Opinion\" in South Africa in 1906. Mr. Maganlal Gandhi, grandson of an uncle of Gandhi, came up with the word \"Sadagraha\" and won the prize. Subsequently, to make it clearer, Gandhi changed it to Satyagraha. \"Satyagraha\" is a tatpuruṣaya compound of the Sanskrit words \"satya\" (meaning \"truth\") and \"agraha\" (\"polite insistence\", or \"holding firmly to\"). Satya is derived from the word “sat”, which means “being”. Nothing is or exists in reality except Truth. In the context of satyagraha, Truth therefore includes a) Truth in speech, as opposed to falsehood, b) what is real, as opposed to nonexistent (asat) and c) good as opposed to evil, or bad. This was critical to Gandhi’s understanding of and faith in nonviolence: \"The world rests upon the bedrock of satya or truth. Asatya, meaning untruth, also means nonexistent, and satya or truth also means that which is. If untruth does not so much as exist, its victory is out of the question. And truth being that which is, can never be destroyed. This is the doctrine of satyagraha in a nutshell.\" \nFor Gandhi, satyagraha went far beyond mere \"passive resistance\" and became strength in practising non-violent methods. In his words:\nIn September 1935, a letter to P. K. Rao, Servants of India Society, Gandhi disputed the proposition that his idea of Civil Disobedience was adapted from the writings of Henry David Thoreau especially \"Civil Disobedience\" of 1849.\nGandhi described it as follows:\n\nGandhi distinguished between satyagraha and passive resistance in the following letter:\nIt is important to note the intrinsic connection between ahinsa and satyagraha. Satyagraha is sometimes used to refer to the whole principle of nonviolence, where it is essentially the same as ahimsa, and sometimes used in a “marked” meaning to refer specifically to direct action that is largely obstructive, for example in the form of civil disobedience.\n\nGandhi says:\nAssessing the extent to which Gandhi's ideas of satyagraha were or were not successful in the Indian independence struggle is a complex task. Judith Brown has suggested that \"this is a political strategy and technique which, for its outcomes, depends of historical specificities.\" The view taken by Gandhi differs from the idea that the goal in any conflict is necessarily to defeat the opponent or frustrate the opponent’s objectives, or to meet one’s own objectives despite the efforts of the opponent to obstruct these. In satyagraha, by contrast, “The Satyagrahi’s object is to convert, not to coerce, the wrong-doer.” The opponent must be converted, at least as far as to stop obstructing the just end, for this cooperation to take place. There are cases, to be sure, when an opponent, for e.g. a dictator, has to be unseated and one cannot wait to convert him. The satyagrahi would count this a partial success.\n\nThe theory of satyagraha sees means and ends as inseparable. The means used to obtain an end are wrapped up in and attached to that end. Therefore, it is contradictory to try to use unjust means to obtain justice or to try to use violence to obtain peace. As Gandhi wrote: “They say, 'means are, after all, means'. I would say, 'means are, after all, everything'. As the means so the end...”\n\nGandhi used an example to explain this:\nGandhi rejected the idea that injustice should, or even could, be fought against “by any means necessary” – if you use violent, coercive, unjust means, whatever ends you produce will necessarily embed that injustice. To those who preached violence and called nonviolent actionists cowards, he replied: “I do believe that, where there is only a choice between cowardice and violence, I would advise violence...I would rather have India resort to arms in order to defend her honour than that she should, in a cowardly manner, become or remain a helpless witness to her own dishonour...But I believe that nonviolence is infinitely superior to violence, forgiveness is more manly than punishment.”\n\nThe essence of satyagraha is that it seeks to eliminate antagonisms without harming the antagonists themselves, as opposed to violent resistance, which is meant to cause harm to the antagonist. A satyagrahi therefore does not seek to end or destroy the relationship with the antagonist, but instead seeks to transform or “purify” it to a higher level. A euphemism sometimes used for satyagraha is that it is a “silent force” or a “soul force” (a term also used by Martin Luther King Jr. during his famous “I Have a Dream” speech). It arms the individual with moral power rather than physical power. Satyagraha is also termed a “universal force,” as it essentially “makes no distinction between kinsmen and strangers, young and old, man and woman, friend and foe.”\n\nGandhi contrasted satyagraha (holding on to truth) with “duragraha” (holding on by force), as in protest meant more to harass than enlighten opponents. He wrote: “There must be no impatience, no barbarity, no insolence, no undue pressure. If we want to cultivate a true spirit of democracy, we cannot afford to be intolerant. Intolerance betrays want of faith in one's cause.”\n\nCivil disobedience and non-cooperation as practised under satyagraha are based on the “law of suffering”, a doctrine that the endurance of suffering is a means to an end. This end usually implies a moral upliftment or progress of an individual or society. Therefore, the non-cooperation of satyagraha is in fact a means to secure the cooperation of the opponent that is consistent with truth and justice.\n\nWhen using satyagraha in a large-scale political conflict involving civil disobedience, Gandhi believed that the satyagrahis must undergo training to ensure discipline. He wrote that it is “only when people have proved their active loyalty by obeying the many laws of the State that they acquire the right of Civil Disobedience.”\n\nHe therefore made part of the discipline that satyagrahis:\n\nThis obedience has to be not merely grudging, but extraordinary:\nGandhi envisioned satyagraha as not only a tactic to be used in acute political struggle, but as a universal solvent for injustice and harm.\n\nHe founded the Sabarmati Ashram to teach satyagraha. He asked satyagrahis to follow the following principles (Yamas described in Yoga Sutra):\nOn another occasion, he listed these rules as “essential for every Satyagrahi in India”:\n\nGandhi proposed a series of rules for satyagrahis to follow in a resistance campaign:\n\nSatyagraha theory also influenced many other movements of nonviolence and civil resistance. For example, Martin Luther King Jr. wrote in his autobiography about Gandhi's influence on his developing ideas regarding the Civil Rights Movement in the United States:\n\nIn view of the Nazi persecution of the Jews in Germany, Gandhi offered satyagraha as a method of combating oppression and genocide, stating:\n\nWhen Gandhi was criticized for these statements, he responded in another article entitled “Some Questions Answered”:\n\nIn a similar vein, anticipating a possible attack on India by Japan during World War II, Gandhi recommended satyagraha as a means of national defense (what is now sometimes called \"Civilian Based Defense (CBD) or \"social defence\"):\n\n"}
{"id": "10323784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323784", "title": "Sean Sellers", "text": "Sean Sellers\n\nSean Richard Sellers (May 18, 1969 – February 4, 1999) was an American murderer, one of 22 persons in the United States since the reinstatement of the death penalty in 1976 to be executed for a crime committed while under the age of 18, and the only one to have been executed for crime committed under the age of 17. His case drew worldwide attention due to his age as well as his jailhouse conversion to Christianity and his claim that demonic possession made him innocent of his crimes.\n\nOn March 5, 1986, Sellers killed his mother and stepfather, Vonda and Lee Bellofatto, while they were asleep in the bedroom of their Oklahoma City home. Wearing only underwear to limit blood spatter on himself, he first shot his step-father. The shot awoke his mother, whom he shot in the face. Sellers tried to disguise his guilt by arranging the crime scene to look as if an intruder had committed the killings.\n\nSellers also later confessed to the 1985 killing of a Circle K convenience store clerk who had refused to sell him beer.\n\nAt his trial, Sellers claimed he was a practicing Satanist at the time of the murders and that demonic possession (by the demon \"Ezurate\") caused him to murder his victims. In later documents, he claimed to have read \"The Satanic Bible\" by Anton Lavey \"hundreds of times\" between the ages of 15 and 16, when the crimes were committed, and in a \"Confession\" letter written from prison, he reflected on this period of his life: \"I got very involved in Satanism. I truly thought it was an honest way to live, and the rituals of it would enable me to control my life.\" His attorneys also argued Sellers was addicted to the game \"Dungeons & Dragons\", although Sellers would later write that the game had no part in his crimes and that \"using my past as a common example of the effects of the game is either irrational or fanatical.\"\n\nThe jury refused to consider either claim, and Sellers was found guilty of multiple homicides and sentenced to death in 1986. At the time, Oklahoma law did not give juries the option of giving a life sentence without the possibility of parole (that choice became available in 1987). One juror later said that the jury felt Sellers would be paroled in 7 to 14 years, and this prison term was not lengthy enough. So the jury opted for the death penalty. Other jurors denied this was part of the deliberations.\n\nSellers became a Christian while in prison. His friends started a website on his behalf, and he campaigned for clemency based on his religious conversion, age and involvement in Satanism. While on death row, Sellers made numerous appearances in the mass media, appearing on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and on a notorious segment of \"Geraldo\" about Satanism. He appeared in documentaries about Satanism and serial killers for \"48 Hours\", MSNBC, WNS NEWS and the A&E Network. Sellers married in prison on February 14, 1995, but the marriage was annulled in 1997.\n\nSellers' step-siblings doubted that his conversion to Christianity was a sincere one. Of his many surviving family members, only his step-grandfather believed his conversion to have been genuine. However, the prison chaplain believed he had truly converted.\n\nDuring his 1999 appeal to the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, Sellers contended he had multiple personality disorder (now dissociative identity disorder). The appellate court ruled that there was \"uncontroverted evidence\" of Sellers' religious conversion and that he may indeed suffer from multiple personality disorder. The panel of judges concluded that while Sellers might have been insane at the time of his crimes, the claim was made too late to be raised on appeal. Human Rights Watch condemned this decision to \"[uphold] the sentence on narrow procedural grounds\" despite the \"acknowledged 'uncontested clinical evidence' that Sellers suffers from multiple personality disorder\", adding in its letter to Governor Keating that \"No civilized society can accept the execution of a person who was a child at the time he committed his crimes and who was — and remains — afflicted with a mental disorder. Such an execution offends the most basic principles of international justice and morality.\" In its 1999 letter HR Watch observed also that since 1990, the only other countries known to have executed juvenile offenders besides the United States of America were Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Yemen.\n\nPsychiatric experts scoffed at Sellers' claim, arguing that any true mental illness would have been diagnosed soon after Sellers' arrest and not seven years later. Prison officials also cast doubt on Sellers' mental illness by saying they saw Sellers rehearsing the evidence of mental illness and receiving coaching from his attorneys. \n\nSellers made the same insanity claim to his clemency board, but the board refused to consider the issue. The board appeared to be swayed by prison officials' statements, the lengthy time delay in diagnosing the illness, and statements by Sellers' accomplice that he had seen no evidence of multiple personality. \"The only thing that worried him was getting caught\", Richard Howard wrote.\n\nSellers appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, but the court declined his appeal.\n\nTwo days before his execution, Sellers filed two more appeals. The first appeal, made in federal district court, accused the state Pardon and Parole Board of violating his civil rights. Sellers argued the pardon board's decisions were not impartial and were, instead, capricious. The appeal was denied, the issue having been considered and rejected by state courts numerous times (and recently as well). A second appeal, filed with the state Court of Criminal Appeals, claimed the state appellate court made a mistake by ruling Sellers had waived his insanity claim at trial. The state appellate court admitted it used the wrong legal justification in deciding Sellers' waiver of mental illness, but nevertheless rejected Sellers' appeal after reconsidering the case on the merits raised by Sellers' defense team.\n\nSellers' imminent execution brought condemnation from a wide variety of sources, including the European Union, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the American Bar Association and Bianca Jagger. Nearly all raised issues about his age at the time of the crimes, and many argued that his religious work from prison outweighed the state's need to execute him.\n\nSellers was executed by lethal injection on February 4, 1999 at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester, Oklahoma at 12:17 a.m., five minutes after the lethal drugs were injected. For his last meal, he had Chinese food: eggrolls, sweet-and-sour shrimp, and batter-fried shrimp. He began his final statement by addressing his step-siblings: \n\nIn the final minutes before injection Sellers sang modern Christian music, then said loudly, \"Here I come, Father; I'm coming home.\" He then turned to the Warden: \"Let's do it, Gary. Let's get it on.\" Sellers finally sang his last words: \"Set my spirit free that I might praise Thee. Set my spirit free that I might worship Thee.\"\n\nSellers's stepsiblings objected to the substance of his final remarks, that instead of apologizing or mentioning their mother, he only \"addressed the fact that we would still feel the same. It is very presumptuous that he would know how we would still feel\", said his stepsister.\n\nSellers was the first and remains the only person executed in the U.S. for a crime committed under the age of 17 since the reinstatement of the death penalty in 1976. The U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Roper v. Simmons\", later decided it was unconstitutional to execute an individual for a crime committed under the age of 18.\n\nWhile in prison, Sellers authored a book of love stories and poems titled \"Shuladore\". The book was self-published, and sold via his Web site. Under Oklahoma law, a defendant cannot \"receive any proceeds or profits from any source\" as a direct or indirect result of his crime. An Oklahoma grand jury investigated whether Sellers or his friends received profits from the sale of the book, but no indictment was forthcoming. A Christian book publisher issued Sellers' autobiography, \"Web of Darkness\", in 1999 shortly before his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31831926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31831926", "title": "Self-discovery", "text": "Self-discovery\n\nThe term \"journey of self-discovery\" refers to a travel, pilgrimage, or series of events whereby a person attempts to determine how they feel, personally, about spiritual issues\n\nA journey of self-discovery is a popular theme in literature. It is sometimes used to drive the plot of a novel, play or film.\n\nA journey of self-discovery is a popular theme in fiction. Some films use similar phrases, such as in the 2008 film \"Petals: Journey Into Self Discovery\". The 2010 film \"Eat Pray Love\" is also associated with the idea of a journey of self-discovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "23517808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23517808", "title": "Social cleansing", "text": "Social cleansing\n\nSocial cleansing () is class-based killing that consists of elimination of members of society considered \"undesirable,\" including but not limited to the homeless, criminals, street children, the elderly, sex workers, and sexual minorities. This phenomenon is caused by a combination of economic and social factors, but killings are notably present in regions with high levels of poverty and disparities of wealth. Perpetrators are usually of the same community as the victims and are often motivated by the idea that the victims are a drain on the resources of society. Efforts by national and local governments to stop these killings have been largely ineffective, and the government and police forces are often involved in the killings, especially in South America.\n\nIn African countries, social cleansing almost always takes the form of witch hunting, which is most common in areas with poor economic circumstances. Several social and economic theories exist as to why such circumstances have arisen and led to accusations of witchcraft, including warfare, natural disasters, unequal patterns of development, and larger forces of globalization. Most scholars agree that the cause of social cleansing efforts is a result of \"interaction of economic conditions and cultural factors.\" All of these theories must be linked to larger societal trends, including the devaluation and social marginalization of women as well as the placement of blame on individuals for their own economic misfortunes in lieu of recognition of global and local economic forces at play. However, several scholars have emphasized the outside groups and circumstances related to these killings to dispute the idea that they are simply a cultural norm.\n\nIn many countries, income disparities have led to social tensions and a climate of \"mutual suspicion\". The wealthy and powerful are perceived as having obtained their wealth through \"evil arts\", while the economically disadvantaged are accused of responsibility for misfortunes of the community. There is also evidence that the causes of social cleansing are linked to globalization and economic liberalization, \"to the extent that it has stripped entire populations of their means of subsistence, torn communities apart, deepened economic inequalities and forced people to compete for diminishing resources.\" Many African communities have been destabilized as communal lands have been privatized, local currency has been devalued, and public services have been eliminated.\nSometimes these larger economic trends have been linked to more specific events. For example, in Southern Zimbabwe, violent wars led certain areas to be neglected in development efforts, leading to a lack of resources and increasing disparities of wealth in these areas. In Tanzania, scholars have found positive correlations between extreme rainfall (both floods and droughts) and large negative income shocks and famine. These periods have been statistically linked to increases in murder of witches.\n\nSeveral cultural explanations for social cleansing in Africa are related to religion. One that has been offered by scholars is the presence of Pentecostalists, whose focus on the occult has been spread by the media and increased social anxiety. Pentecostalists have been recorded as preaching connections between illness and the devil, which has combined potently with existing indigenous beliefs, most notably in Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria, and Tanzania. In Tanzania, a positive correlation exists between witch killing and areas where populations practice traditional religions, where belief in witchcraft is strong. While scholars have suggested that the presence of these beliefs is important because it demonstrates that perpetrators generally do believe that their victims are practicing witchcraft, they also recognize that populations of traditional religious beliefs are often also of low socio-economic status, which supports their assertion that poverty is still the primary factor in motivating killings.\n\nThe most widespread myth about social cleansing in Latin America is that these killings are all related to drug use. However, the phenomenon is larger than the drug problem and is related to state ideology, a culture of violence, and inequitable wealth distribution. Within Colombia specifically, economic factors account for many of the reasons behind these killings, but such factors are additionally \"aggravated by external political and economic pressures from the United States\".\n\nLatin America has an extremely large number of individuals living below the poverty line, and these individuals are largely blamed for their impoverished state. Many of these individuals are in critical poverty, meaning that they do not even have the ability to secure food and shelter. This critical poverty is connected to inflation rates that has led the cost of living to increase and the minimum salary to be hardly adequate for survival. Since the 1990s, the gap between the rich and poor has widened, and funds for welfare programs and social services has decreased while funding for security forces to protect \"the haves from the have-nots\" have tripled in Colombia specifically.\n\nLatin America's history has long been plagued by political violence, which over time has morphed into class-based violence. Despite mostly formally democratic governments, the \"legacy of authoritarianism\" lingers, and the presence of \"armed actors\" is prevalent as a result of a long history of violence between military, paramilitary, and guerilla groups. The presence of this culture of violence has had various effects on the underclass in countries in Latin America. The military and especially the police have been known to use violence to harm citizens rather than protect them. Private \"vigilante\" security forces have likewise used violence against the poor with the idea of promoting law and order, especially in Colombia, Guatemala, and Peru. Though many guerilla groups are much less violent than when they originally emerged, they are a presence and an additional source of violence, especially in Colombia. Tension between political groups has led these guerilla groups, the government, and vigilante actors to suspect peasants of working with their enemy and to intimidate them into leaving land in the countryside for the city. Other poor rural residents have been forced to leave due to general violence or lack of public services. Violence at the local level is also extremely common by organized criminals such as street gangs, drug bosses, vigilante justice groups, and local civil patrols. When poor residents are forced to move to the city, they often must turn to prostitution, crime, or begging in inner-city ghettos, which puts them in an extremely vulnerable position in the presence of these violent groups. Men in particular become even more entrenched in the culture of violence as many join gangs to escape \"social exclusion and economic disadvantage\" and establish a sense of identity and masculinity. Finally, violence exists at a level even smaller than the community—the home. Children are often victims of \"physical, mental, and sexual abuse by adults member of their own families.\" In Guatemala specifically, social cleansing occurs with the \"backdrop of genocide,\" and homicide rates are still extremely high after \"three decades of armed conflict\" during the Guatemalan Civil War. Violence experienced across the region has led to an erosion of social capital, which was described by Colombians as including \"'social mistrust,' 'lack of unity,' 'fear' and 'lack of social institutions.'\" \n\nSpain, during times before colonization, demonstrates societal patterns that shaped life in Spain in terms of prejudice and discrimination. The discriminatory practice of Spanish legislation led to a certain caste system, pertaining to those with or without honor. Moreover one's reputation and the way one was treated was based on aspects such as honor, legitimacy, and the limpieza de sangre, a prejudicial marker that indicates one’s purity of blood, relating to their family timeline and deciding how society was to treat them.  “Historic meanings of honor included those cultural specific ways that Spaniards had always rationalized discrimination due to defects in birth (illegitimate, nonnoble), religion (non-Catholic), and race (nonwhite).” This discriminatory institution based on these concepts of honor, limpieza, and legitimacy, is expressed through the legislation of Spanish government at the time. An example of this is was in 1414 when Pope Benedict XIII approved the constitution of Spanish College’s San Bartolomé, which linked these concepts through the school's acceptances. Those excepted into the school had to prove they had pure blood, rather than Jewish, Moorish, or heretical heritage.\n\nThe concept of \"limpieza de sangre,\" or purity of blood, was used in societies of Spain and Portugal, originating from Iberian culture, where reputation was inherited by one's ancestors. Had there been someone found to be a race such as Jewish, a converted Jewish, or Muslim in their family timeline, it was said to be a stain on their ancestry. Consequently, one's own ancestry determined their reputation and social standing, impacting other aspects such as access to education, career, and marriage for further generations. This became known as the culture of honor, which resided in such reputational ancestry that came to define how individuals were respected.\n\nLimpieza de sangre affected life for every individual in the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, including the degree to exclusion and racial discrimination. When Europe came to colonize the \"New World\" these ethics of honor and limpieza de sangre implied that those with blood lacking purity to European standards was inferior. The Europeans were at the \"apex\" of social structure and everyone who was not identical in blood was inferior. As colonists, the presumed inferiors were the colonized and thus, due to this culture of honor, they became victims of this discrimination. While over time assimilation and miscegenation and admixture complicated this concept of social cleansing, the ideals of \"purity of blood\" prevailed, and elite was considered to be of European and Christian origins.\n\nThe conquest of indigenous people in Latin America strengthened these ideals. The vulnerability of one's identity in colonial America gave way to ones defense of honor, except for the elites and those in power, typically the colonists. As the degree of honor perceived by individuals was reputational, people felt the need to be confirmed by society or from those in good social standing through submission into the given standards that one's place holds. The pursuit of this honor leads to many disputes, as well as the fear of being rejected by society and losing one's place.\n\nDespite these long-lived standards, during post colonialism, the ideals of Latin America changed with independence and the growth of democratic values. With this, the culture of honor and respect in those with pure bloodlines changed. People began to socially include those who were previously seen as inferior.\n\nThe most common murder victim in Brazil is a young, black male living in a favela, or a Brazilian slum. These young men typically are, or are assumed to be, gang members and criminals. Violence and murder are most common in areas that are economically disadvantaged and socially marginalized. Women are often targets by association, though the effects of social cleansing and violence against women are largely absent in existing research. Killings are often in public places, with victims being beaten or shot in the street. Police groups sometimes simply enter the community in a large armoured vehicle called a \"caveirão\" and start shooting. This vehicle contributes to the \"anonymity and impunity for the perpetrators.\"\n\nSocial cleansing in Brazil is the result of a \"murky symbiosis [that] has developed between the official security forces and paramilitary and vigilante-type actors\" that carry out \"law enforcement against the 'marginal classes.'\" State actors often act against the poor \"as a form or result of exclusion and oppression.\" Gangs serve as a scapegoat for the levels of violence and lack of security in many communities. Private groups and some gangs perpetrate killings in attempts to take policing into their own hands. While some killings are a result of groups attempting to punish criminals for misdemeanors, others are a result of perceived threats of poor citizens, such as members of workers' movements.\n\nIn the 1980s, \"social cleansing\" groups started to be created. Their main mission was \"to make justice\" by killing all non-appropriate people in social terms, like prostitutes, street-living people, transvestites, and drug addicts. \n\nVictims of social cleansing in Colombia are members of society who are considered \"undesirable\" and \"disposable.\" They are economically disadvantaged, usually live on the streets, and are considered to be a burden on society, \"the cause of the country's problems, rather than a consequence of them.\"\n\nOne of these groups is street children, who are without homes due to abuse, forced displacement, or the death of their parents. Death rates for street children have been as high as six to eight children per day. Children are often shot in their sleep or stabbed to death on the streets or in the police station. A 1993 case in which a 9-year-old girl was strangled to death in Bogota brought attention to this problem and led to nominal reforms. The National Police targets street children specifically under the assumption that they are drug users and criminals. This is to some extent true, as many use drugs to relieve pain and avoid hunger and must shoplift to survive. Despite living in conditions of extreme vulnerability to \"aggression and danger,\" the National Police poses the greatest threat to street children's survival, as they drive them off the streets and target them in social cleansing.\n\nPoor criminals, drug users, and drug dealers are also common targets. From 1988 to 1993, these individuals collectively comprised 56% of social cleansing victims. These individuals are often victims of physical and sexual abuse by the police and vigilante groups known as \"comas\". One common method of killing these individuals in the city of Bogota is the Choachí run, in which victims are taken to the top of a mountain in the town of Choachí, executed, and thrown off the mountain. In some cases, they are released to attempt escape, but die by falling down the mountain or being shot at as they run. A similar method is known as \"the ride,\" in which victims are forced into a vehicle, killed, and left in a desolate area. Death squads have employed other means for killing suspected criminals, such as murdering them and then cutting off their hands and putting them in small boxes in public spaces to intimidate other criminals. Another group has been known to shoot victims and then cast their bodies into the municipal stadium.\n\nSex workers and sexual minorities are treated quite similarly in regards to social cleansing, as both are hard to identify and victims of heavy discrimination despite the fact that both homosexuality and prostitution are legal. Many female sex workers are forced into the line of work due to poverty and domestic violence. Both male and female sex workers are often harassed by the police, and males specifically are demanded to pay a \"tax\" where \"failure to pay results in beatings or imprisonment.\" In an upside-down system, encounters with dishonest police are preferable to honest police, as the dishonest will accept bribes, while the honest are more likely to kill. Sexual minorities are particularly difficult to identify, because not only do some male sex workers participate in gay sex out of economic necessity, but victims are only considered homosexual if they were dressed as females at the time of death.\n\nAnother group includes those individuals in the most extreme form of poverty. These individuals subsist by asking for money and/or collecting garbage. The police have been known to kill these victims in especially cruel ways, such as pouring gasoline on them and setting them on fire. It is also notable that at least 14 destitute individuals have been killed by security guards at one Colombian university for the use of their bodies as cadavers in the medical school.\n\nThe National Police has played a large role in carrying out class-based killings in Colombia. The police created the term \"disposable\" (Spanish: \"desechable\") to define economically disadvantaged people who are considered to have no value to society. Whether directly or through \"paramilitary clients,\" the National Police was responsible for 74% of deaths related to social cleansing in 1992. Motivations include \"security, aesthetics, economic well-being, morals, and religion.\" In regards to safety and economic well-being, rationales include the idea that the poor are or look like criminals and decrease public safety and drive customers away from businesses. Moral arguments include protection from homosexuals and prostitutes.\n\nThe distinction between death squads and paramilitary groups and the National Police is not always clear. Not only are policemen often members of these groups, but these groups typically enjoy the protection of the police. Other members include businessmen, industrialists, guerillas, and soldiers. Death squads emerged in the late 1970s, one of the first being the Black Hand, a group that murdered suspected criminals. Their reasoning behind these killings is the flawed legal system, which convicts less than 3% of criminals. Death squads and other groups believe it necessary to step in where the legal system has failed by eliminating these suspected criminals. As of 1995, there were no less than 40 of these squads operating in Colombia.\n\nThe role of the national government in Colombia has largely been complicit cooperation with the National Police. By failing to deal with crime and then also effectively granting impunity to police and military groups, the state has allowed safety issues to be addressed with violence and has perpetuated a \"cycle of crime, lack of public safety, violent response, and impunity\" due to \"terrifying inefficiency and unwillingness to hold people accountable for their acts\". While the government at least tries to protect street children through programs to put them in state-run homes, these programs often do not align with their actual needs and have largely failed. There have been limited attempts to protect those in poverty in the legal system, and one case of harassment against the poor resulted in a judge calling for their equal treatment and compensation from the offending policemen. However, the decision was not enforced.\n\nSocial cleansing and gang killings make up a large portion of the homicides in Guatemala. Since gangs typically make no effort to cover up crimes and leave bodies at the place of death, \"signs of torture,\" as well as location of the body, \"serve as indicators of the existence of social cleansing,\" according to Elizabeth Sanford. According to a study by the Human Rights Ombudsman, \"the increase in the number of women killed whose bodies bore marks of torture and other sadistic abuse accounted for 40 percent of the total increase in female murders in 2005.\" Though female victims account for 10% of all homicides, over 18% of cadavers with signs of torture indicating social cleansing were female. Furthermore, 2% of female victims of homicide are prostitutes, a common victim group of social cleansing efforts. Furthermore, young and destitute male gang members, especially those blamed for homicide of females, have been common victims of social cleansing.\nThe most common form of killing, indicated by the 305 cadavers found in 2005, is strangulation. Other common methods included victims being beaten, shot in the head, bound by their hands and feet, and in the case of female victims, sexual abuse. Victims are abducted, taken to a different location, are tortured and killed, and finally have their body dumped in a different location.\n\nPerpetrators include the Guatemalan government as well as private groups either directly or indirectly complicit with the state. Social cleansing efforts are targeted against gangs and other perceived and actual criminals, who are blamed for the high rates of homicide. The perpetrators intend to both exterminate victims and intimidate other members of the target group. Intimidation is carried out both through torture tactics used as well as propaganda including flyers and stickers that support social cleansing as a \"method of social control.\" Because perpetrators are directly or indirectly tied to the state, they naturally have impunity.\n\nThe use of \"social cleansing\" efforts to eliminate criminals and other persons deemed to be socially dangerous has its origins during the period of military dictatorship and civil war (1954-1996). During the 1960s and 70s, many state-operated paramilitary front organizations (so-called \"death squads\") emerged with the express purpose of exterminating suspected communists and other enemies of the state. These groups included the MANO, NOA, CADEG, 'Ojo por Ojo' and others. While nominally employed against political targets, the use of \"death squads\" came to be seen by the Guatemalan police forces (specifically the National Police) as a crime fighting tool, particularly after the election of Col. Arana Osorio in 1970 and the subsequent \"state of siege\". One early example of the use of \"death squads\" against non-political targets was a phantom organization called the 'Avenging Vulture', which specifically targeted criminals.\n\nThe most common victims of social cleansing efforts in Tanzania are elderly women, the majority of whom are of low socioeconomic status, but several groups of people who are considered burdens to the community, such as children, the sick, infants, and the handicapped, are also victims. These people are usually accused of witchcraft following deaths or other misfortunes in society and tend to flee, choosing homelessness over death. Those who do not flee successfully are killed violently in their homes. Sometimes those considered burdens are simply reduced to zero consumption and are starved to death. This occurs particularly among infants, who have no ability to flee or attempt to provide for themselves.\n\nVictims are typically killed by members of their own families, who blame them for economic suffering and household misfortune. Accusations and subsequent killings are often incited by death or illness in the family or the family's livestock. However, general misfortune in the form of \"failed crops, lost jobs, and bad dreams also arouse suspicion.\" While often accusations are raised to the effect of creating a scapegoat, not all forms of social cleansing are connected to witch hunting. The extreme scarcity theory suggests that some families to drive out or starve unproductive family members to provide more nutrients for other members. Many of these perpetrators are young, unemployed men who see the elderly as a burden on their potential for success. Another key perpetrator of social cleansing in Tanzania are the Sungusungu, councils of male elders that operate under the premise of promoting village security. These groups formed under the premise that the government was not able to prevent crimes such as theft, and they serve as a form of vigilante justice.\n\nAlthough the Tanzanian government has made public witchcraft accusations illegal, the efforts to stop them have been unsuccessful. Conviction levels are extremely low, as \"only seven of 1,622 individuals arrested in connection with witch killings during the 1970s and 1980s were convicted, and since then the conviction rate as apparently fallen even lower,\" according to Edward Miguel. The perception of the government and police force as unable to control crime has led groups such as Sungusungu to take matters into their own hands, though studies suggest that the police may sometimes be involved in witch killings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5494029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5494029", "title": "Syntexis libocedrii", "text": "Syntexis libocedrii\n\nSyntexis libocedrii, (also called the cedar wood wasp or incense-cedar wood wasp) is the only living species in the wood wasp family Anaxyelidae, within the Symphyta, though the family has an extensive Mesozoic fossil record. This species is thus a \"living fossil\". It has the remarkable behavior of ovipositing only in recently burnt incense-cedar (\"Calocedrus\"), red cedar (\"Thuja\") or juniper (\"Juniperus\"). The wood is often still smoldering while the wasp is laying its eggs, and the larvae develop in the wood. \"S. libocedrii\" occurs from the mountains of central California to southern British Columbia, but is very rarely seen, except by firefighters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1072514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072514", "title": "Tamagotchi Connection", "text": "Tamagotchi Connection\n\nThe Tamagotchi Connection (UK: Tamagotchi Connexion) is a virtual pet in the Tamagotchi line of digital toys from Bandai. The Tamagotchi Connection is unique from prior models in that it uses infrared technology to connect and interact with other devices and was first released in 2004, 8 years after the first Tamagotchi toy. Using the device's infrared port, the virtual pet (referred to as a Tamagotchi) can make friends with other Tamagotchis, in addition to playing games, giving and receiving presents and having a baby.\n\nVersions 1 to 4 of Tamagotchi Connection have 6 levels of friendship that can be viewed in the Friends List:\nVersions 5 and 6 have different levels.\n\nIf the Tamagotchi cannot find a partner from another device to have babies with, a matchmaker will come, allowing the Tamagotchi to have a baby with a computer-controlled Tamagotchi character. This applies to versions 1 to 4 and 6 only. Version 5 introduces a Dating Show game in which the user must play to gain a CPU partner.\n\nAll Tamagotchi Devices are capable of connecting with each other; however, a character from a newer Version will show on an older version as the mystery character known as Nazotchi.\n\nThe Tamagotchi Connection v2 introduces \"Gotchi Points\", an in-game currency used to buy shop items. Also, more games are unlocked as the Tamagotchi ages. It has 6 stages of life:\n\nAside from different games, The Tamagotchi Connection v3 makes few changes in comparison to the v2 Like the v2, the older the Tamagotchi gets, the more games it has access to, and there are still 6 stages of life.\n\nOther differences from the v2\n\nAs in previous versions, Tamagotchis play games for a certain amount of \"Gotchi Points\" and unlock more games as it ages.\nThe Tamagotchi Connection makes additional changes to gameplay instead of simply changing the games and other minor details. For example, the child and teenager can go to school and play mini-games, where an adult can get a job. Also, the \"Lamp\" menu item (allows the user to turn the \"light\" on or off) is no longer present. Instead, it is replaced with a \"Mail\" menu item where the player can check for any mail they will occasionally receive.\n\nNew to the Tamagotchi Connection with the v4 is the ability for a child or teenager Tamagotchi to go to school and an adult to go to work. The player can choose which teacher they want once the Tamagotchi reaches the Teenage stage, and will train either \"Funny Points\", \"Gorgeous Points\" and \"Spiritual Points\" through mini-games. The player also chooses what job an adult Tamagotchi gets and will unlock mini-games based on this choice.\n\nThe Connection v4.5 makes minimal changes to gameplay from the v4, short of adding new games; however, the Tamagotchi is now able to collect \"Life Points\".\n\nThis option is needed to visit the V4 online world of Tamagotchi Town. The Tamagotchi goes off the screen and a Log-In Password is provided. At Tamagotchi Town, the password is entered and Tamagotchi Town appears on-screen. In Tamagotchi Town, many things can be done, such as:\n\n\nThe Tamagotchi Connection v5 is the English version of the FamiTama and is the first Tamagotchi to be exactly the same (besides language) worldwide since the Tamagotchi Plus. It was released in Asia on January 6, 2008 in Australia on January 10, 2008 and was released worldwide later in February 2008. The v5 introduces the ability to raise families, with 3-5 parents and kids. It also has a new website that it shares with the Famitama, the \"Tama and Earth Expo\". According to the package, \"The Tamagotchis set up this expo to learn more about Earth.\" It contains a central pavilion and 4 other pavilions representing each of the main areas of the Earth. It also included a TV option where the player can use Gotchi Points to shop on the Shopping Channel, find a mate with the Dating Show, or go travelling on the Travelling Show which replaces the pause function of previous generations. There is a design flaw with the v5 which prevents it from properly connecting to the other Tamagotchis in the series.\n\nDifferences from previous versions:\n\nWhen raising a family without parents, only the TV Surfing and Tea Time games are available. Having parents unlocks the Golf Putt and Shoe Pairs games. The Tamagotchi Connection v5 also has a v5.5 variant, which brings minimal changes to the generation.\n\nThe Tamagotchi Connection v6 is the final release in the Connection series and allows the Tamagotchi to become a pop star. As the Tamagotchi ages, it will learn a musical instrument and a band manager will come once the Tamagotchi reaches 5 in-game years of age. Every Tamagotchi Connection v6 includes a guitar pick with a code for Tamatown on it.\n\nThe Tamagotchi can play all three music games, Sing A Song, Music Notes and Sound Block from birth. The Tamagotchi has a band from the teenager stage, whose members cannot be named, but the band itself can.\n\nThe Adoptive Connection Glitter Pad is the spin-off of Tamagotchi Connection that features the Glitter Pad of Maya, Rachel, Clara and Mackenzie as virtual pets. It can allows kids to become the Glitter Force. As the pet inside the Pad \"ages\",it will learn a fact about a new magical artifact and the virtual pet on the Pad beeps about four seconds,and then show the information of the artifact once the pet in the Module reaches a new stage of life. \n\nThe CPU mate would be random,the baby that is the offspring of both the mate and the pet inside the Pad,the male are mostly resembles its father,and the female are mostly resembles its mother,but has some resemblances of its father,as well a longer tail. Coco,Nuts,Tart,Coffret and Lance are hidden mates. They are very difficult to get,as well they have an unlikely chance to get one of them. More likely mates are Pop,Flappy,Cologne,Porun and Fary. when tries to get a mate,the mate will get trapped by Tamatoa or Te Kā,the player must fight one of them to get back the mate. This added RPG to the virtual pet game. The Kakamora might appears when dating or walking in tall grass or caves,the Kakamora can being chased away by tapping the screen or shout at the screen. As well at the Parent stage,the pet must fight back Tamatoa several times at Lalotai to raid jewelry from him to sell and get money,as well is the Baby Raising Points (BRP) to increases the baby' level. \nThe difference of the Adoptive Connection Glitter Pad and Tamagotchi Connection are:\n\nA similar digital pet that can interact with the Glitter Pad,can befriends the pet when both enters the Teenager phrase. Lolipop Fairy can using the artifacts that the pet discovers for its uses. The Lolipop Fairy can being raised since it was a baby together with the pet for ready to befriends at the Teenager phrase.\n\nThe Adoptive Connection Glitter Pad has 6 levels of friendship which is depends on the level,they will fall in love or not. Below is the list of Friendship Levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "54521945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54521945", "title": "Torokul Dzhanuzakov", "text": "Torokul Dzhanuzakov\n\nTorokul Dzhanuzakov (1893—1921) was a Soviet politician; the deputy chairman of the Central Electoral Committee of the Turkestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, chairman of the Commission for Refugees in 1916, one of the main organizers and leaders of the pan-Turk movement in Turkestan, a member of the secret political organization Turkestan National Union (TMB).\n\nDzhanuzakov and the outstanding statesman of Turkestan Turar Ryskulov were friends since childhood. Together they graduated from the Merke boarding school in 1909. As the best graduate, Torokul was accepted as an interpreter by the administration to the Governor-General of Turkestan.\n\nReferring to extracts from the diaries of Dmitry Furmanov, Dzhanuzakov actively participated in the uprising of 16th year and was one of its leaders.\n\nDuring Soviet times Dzhanuzakov was the initiator of the creation and chairman of the Commission for Refugees, participants of the uprising in 1916. He managed to free the local population, who suffered from the punitive operations of the tsarist regime, from taxes, to allocate huge sums of money and other means of material assistance to the population of Turkestan. Using the powers that he has, Dzhanuzakov simultaneously organizes work to investigate the most violent manifestations of the great-power attitude of the kulak population of the Chuy and Issyk-Kul valleys towards the local Kyrgyz. Thus, as a result of the investigation of the brutal murder in 1916, 537 unarmed Kyrgyz people – old men, women and children in the vicinity of the village of Belovodskoye, were sentenced to be executed by the organizers of this crime. Thanks to Dzhanuzakov's determination to implement the measures taken by the authorities to assist refugees returning from China, they immediately returned to their former owners the land occupied during and immediately after the uprising. But later, his concerns about improving the situation of his countrymen were interpreted as \"distortions of land policy\".\n\nBetween the military and political leadership of the Turkestan ASSR, there were contradictions on many issues. Especially for the first two years of the Basmachi movement there was no agreement. Political leadership allowed the criticism of the military for errors and surpluses in the fight against Basmachism in Turkestan. They consisted in a resolute resolution of the struggle against the Basmachi movement, numerous facts of arbitrariness and violence, Red Terror against ordinary people.\n\nHe attended the Congress of the Peoples of the East held in Baku in September 1920, where he had the floor and became involved in drawing up the statutes of ERK, a Muslim Socialist organisation.\n\nAt the Samarkand Turkestan National Union Congress sessions held 5–7 September, the by-laws of the society, consisting of twenty-four items, and the flag of Turkistan were approved. In the committee preparing the national flag of Turkestan, Dzhanuzakov served along with Munevver Kari and Zeki Velidi Togan and a few other individuals.\n\nIn parallel with participation in the national liberation movement, Torokul Dzhanuzakov engaged in scientific research: he collected folklore, conducted archaeographical and ethnographic researches.\n\nDzhanuzakov was shot by the Cheka authorities in 1921 when he was 28 years old. \n\nReport of the Cheka Plenipotentiary Representative in Turkestan Republic Yakov Peters to the Presidium of the Cheka of 17 November 1921: \n\n"}
{"id": "10215923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10215923", "title": "Web life", "text": "Web life\n\nWeb life is a concept, that proposes that the World Wide Web (Web) has, or could, evolve into an entity worthy of consideration as a life form in its own right; a new posthuman species consisting of just one isolated member.\nThe web life concept considers the Web not as a connected network of computers, as in common interpretations of the Internet, but rather as a sociotechnical machine capable of fusing together individuals and organisations into larger coordinated groups. It argues that unlike the technologies that have come before it, the Web is different in that its phenomenal growth and complexity are starting to outstrip our capability to control it directly, making it impossible for us to grasp its completeness in one go. A set of emergent characteristics and behaviours are now starting to appear, it suggests, that we have not programmed individually. These are apparently starting to increase in number and strength.\n\nMany writers, like Arthur C. Clark and Gregory Stock, have contemplated an \"emergent property\" such as life arising from the mass of humanity and computers. Some also refer to this using terminology like \"metaman\", \"superorganism\" or \"global brain\" but until recently few have chosen to take its potential seriously from a purely Web perspective. In fact, in 2005, when Sir Tim Berners-Lee first discussed the thinking behind web life he lightheartedly referred to it as a conspiracy in the spirit of Dan Brown's best selling novel \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\nBuilding on the concepts outlined by Fritjof Capra in his theory of living systems, the argument for the likely emergence of web life draws upon ideas from diverse areas such as Web science, swarm intelligence, technology lock-in, scale-free networks, memes, artificial life, quantum Darwinism, autocatalytic sets and the Semantic Web. The concept was first rigorously outlined in the book \"The Web's Awake\".\n\nAt its heart, web life advocates contemporary definitions of life which ask if it is relevant to differentiate between an individual organism and the entire biosphere. It is argued that a bacterium could easily mistake a person for a huge colony of one-celled organisms working in symbiosis, and therefore in the same way, a person could quite easily perceive the Web as a huge virtual colony of purposeful information-based technology.\n\n"}
