{"id": "9711126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711126", "title": "26th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "26th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 26th World Science Fiction Convention, also known as Baycon, was held August 29-September 2, 1968, at the Hotel Claremont in Berkeley, California, United States.\n\nThe Worldcon was combined with the annual West Coast Science Fantasy Conference (Westercon), sharing Guests of Honor and Chairmen. The chairmen were Bill Donaho, Alva Rogers, and J. Ben Stark. The guests of honor were Philip José Farmer (pro) and Walter J. Daugherty (fan). The toastmaster was Robert Silverberg. Total attendance was approximately 1,430.\n\n\n\nThis Worldcon was the first one that was attended by large numbers of people in the hippie subculture. A psychedelic light show was presented in the main ballroom of the hotel. Robert Silverberg gave a speech about using LSD to attain a mystical experience. Harlan Ellison read a story he had written about a hippie commune.\n\nPoul Anderson emceed a presentation by the Society for Creative Anachronism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78277", "title": "546 BC", "text": "546 BC\n\nThe year 546 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 208 \"Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 546 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7131649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7131649", "title": "Abu 'Ali Chaghani", "text": "Abu 'Ali Chaghani\n\nAbu 'Ali Ahmad Chaghani () (died 955) was the Muhtajid ruler of Chaghaniyan (939–955) and governor of Samanid Khurasan (939–945, 952–953). He was the son of Abu Bakr Muhammad.\n\nIn 939, Muhammad became ill and Abu 'Ali was assigned to succeed him in his posts. As governor of Khurasan he undertook several campaigns in northern Iran, conquering Gurgan and territory as far west as Ray from the Ziyarids, forcing the Ziyarids to acknowledge Samanid authority, and killing the Dailamite adventurer Makan ibn Kaki. After he departed for Khurasan the Buyid Rukn al-Dawla seized Ray. In 945 Abu 'Ali returned and expelled the Buyids from Ray, but they returned a year later.\n\nThat same year, 945, the Samanid amir Nuh I dismissed Abu 'Ali from the governorship of Khurasan after hearing complaints of the latter's harsh rule, and sought to replace him with a Turk, the Simjurid Ibrahim ibn Simjur. Abu 'Ali refused to accept his dismissal and rebelled. He was joined by several prominent Iranian figures such as Abu Mansur Muhammad, whom he appointed as the commander of Khurasan. Abu 'Ali also convinced a Samanid, Nuh's uncle Ibrahim ibn Ahmad, to come from Iraq and installed him as amir in Bukhara when he took the city in 947. Abu 'Ali, now having secured his position, returned to Chaghaniyan. Ibrahim, however, was unpopular with the people of Bukhara, and Nuh soon retaliated by retaking the city and blinding Ibrahim and two brothers.\n\nWhen the news of the re-capture of Bukhara arrived to Abu 'Ali, he once again marched towards Bukhara, but was defeated by an army sent by Nuh and withdrew back to Chaghaniyan. After some time, he left the region and tried to obtain support from other Samanid vassals. Meanwhile, Nuh had Chaghaniyan ravaged and its capital sacked. Another battle shortly ensured between Abu 'Ali and a Samanid army in Tukharistan, which resulted in a Samanid victory. Fortunately for Abu 'Ali, he managed to secure the support of other Samanid vassals, such as the rulers of Khuttal, and the Kumiji mountain people, and in the end made peace with Nuh, who allowed him to keep Chaghaniyan in return for sending his son Abu'l Muzaffar Abdallah as hostage to Bukhara.\n\nSome time later, Abu 'Ali was sent on an expedition to quell a rebellion near Chaghaniyan under a self-proclaimed prophet known as Mahdi. Abu 'Ali managed to successfully defeat and capture the latter and then had his head sent to Bukhara. In ca. 951/2, Abu 'Ali's son Abu'l Muzaffar Abdallah died in an accident and his corpse was shortly sent to Chaghaniyan, where he was buried.\n\nIn 952 following the death of the governor of Khurasan, Mansur ibn Qara-Tegin (Ibrahim ibn Simjur had already died in 948), 'Abu Ali was reinstated by Nuh as governor of the province. At the insistence of the Ziyarids he began a war with the Buyid Rukn al-Dawla, but was unable to take Ray and made peace. This action upset Nuh, who again removed him from the governorship. 'Abu Ali fled to the Buyids and received an investiture diploma for Khurasan from the Caliph and was even reinforced by an army under Lashkarwarz, but was unable to enforce his claim or even return to Chaghaniyan. \n\nIn 955 he and one of his sons died of the plague in Ray. Their bodies were shortly brought to Chaghanian where they were buried. A certain Muhtajid prince, Abu'l Muzaffar ibn Muhammad, probably the grandson of 'Abu Ali, was then appointed as the new ruler of Chaghaniyan. However, according to some other sources, Abu 'Ali was succeeded by his relative Abu'l-Hasan Taher.\n\n"}
{"id": "17474014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17474014", "title": "Ahtisaari Plan", "text": "Ahtisaari Plan\n\nThe Ahtisaari Plan, formally the Comprehensive Proposal for the Kosovo Status Settlement (CSP), is a status settlement proposal covering a wide range of issues related to the Kosovo status process for Kosovo.\n\nSome of the main components of the plan include the formation of the International Steering Group for Kosovo (ISG), and the International Civilian Representative for Kosovo (ICR), the European Union Special Representative (EUSR) for Kosovo, appointed by the Council of the European Union.\n\nIn early 2012 President Boris Tadić recommended his Five-Point Plan for Kosovo, essentially an upgrade of the Ahtisaari Plan. \n\nOn 10 September 2012, the International Steering Group had its final meeting and formally ended its supervision,\n\nThe proposal included provisions covering:\n\n\nWhile not yet mentioning the word \"independence,\" the it included several provisions that were widely interpreted as implying statehood for Kosovo. For example, it would give Kosovo the right to apply for membership in international organizations, create a Kosovo Security Force and adopt national symbols.\n\nMartti Ahtisaari stated, on 8 February 2007, that after a period of consultations with the parties, he would finalize his Settlement proposal for submission to the UN Security Council, when he would also elaborate on the status issue itself.\n\nIn Belgrade, Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Koštunica refused to receive Ahtisaari. Koštunica claimed that because Serbia had still not formed a new government after the January 21 parliamentary elections he had no mandate to discuss Kosovo and therefore could not meet Ahtisaari. Nevertheless, he later denounced the proposal as \"illegitimate and unacceptable\" because he alleged it \"violates the U.N. Charter ... by undermining sovereignty of U.N. member Serbia.\" President Boris Tadić did receive Ahtisaari, after which he reaffirmed his vow to never accept an independent Kosovo. Foreign Minister Vuk Drašković warned that it was \"necessary to avoid an imposed solution that could cause Serbia to become a factor of instability.\"\n\nIn Pristina, Kosovo Albanian leaders issued a statement after meeting with Ahtisaari saying they are \"convinced that the international process for the resolution of Kosovo's status led by President Ahtisaari will be concluded soon with Kosovo becoming an independent state.\"\n\nThe United States called the proposal \"fair and balanced,\" while the EU Presidency noted that Ahtisaari's proposals \"build on almost twelve months of direct talks between Belgrade and Pristina.\"\n\nOn 21 February, Ahtisaari began a period of consultations with the parties in Vienna to finalize the Settlement. He made clear that his proposal was a draft and that he would incorporate compromise solutions into the final document. After this period of consultations and further modification of the Settlement, Ahtisaari convened a high-level meeting of the parties in Vienna on March 10. After this meeting, leaders from both sides signaled a total unwillingness to compromise on their central demands (Kosovo Albanians for Kosovo's independence; Serbia for continued sovereignty over Kosovo). Concluding that there was no chance for the two sides to reconcile their positions, Ahtisaari said he intended to submit to the UN Security Council his proposed status recommendations, including an explicit recommendation for the status outcome itself, by the end of March.\n\nIn November 2008, the EU accepted the demand of Serbia not to implement the plan of Ahtisaari through EULEX.\n\nOn February 10, 2007, Kosovo Albanians protested against the Ahtisaari Plan. Two were killed and others seriously injured after Romanian Police serving in the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, UNMIK, fired rubber bullets at the demonstrators.\n"}
{"id": "11904019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11904019", "title": "Algerian legislative election, 2002", "text": "Algerian legislative election, 2002\n\nThe 2002 Algerian Legislative election was held in Algeria on 30 May 2002 to elect members of the People's National Assembly. The governing National Liberation Front (FLN) won a majority of seats in the election. The election suffered from a low turnout, violence and boycotts by some opposition parties.\n\nThe election saw 10,052 candidates standing in the election from 23 political parties. Of the candidates, 694 were female and 1,266 were independents.\n\nPresident Abdelaziz Bouteflika announced the date of the election on 20 February and the official campaign began on 9 May. The President vowed that they would be free elections and warned people against undermining them. However five opposition parties boycotted the election, the Socialist Forces Front (FFS), Rally for Culture and Democracy (RCD), Republican National Alliance (ANR), Movement of Democrats and Socialists (MDS) and the Socialist Workers' Party (PST). They claimed that previous elections in 1997 and 1999 were fraudulent and that this election would be no different.\n\nA survey carried out by Al-Watan newspaper showed that 70% would vote for one of the 3 parties in the ruling coalition, the FLN, National Rally for Democracy and the Movement of Society for Peace. The FLN of Prime Minister Ali Benflis campaigned on a platform of unifying the different social groups of Algeria such as by regional development in the south. The RND, which had won the most seats at the last election in 1997, campaigned for economic liberalisation but was undermined by the lack of a base of support or a social ideology. The leader of the RND, Ahmed Ouyahia, warned of the dangers of an Islamist victory but his concerns were dismissed by the interior minister. The opposition Workers' Party led by Louisa Hanoune campaigned against outside interference in Algeria and against privatisation.\n\nThe campaign saw widespread apathy with many people seeing the parliament as toothless and the military as remaining the main power. The FLN attempted to raise interest in the election by doing things such as creating a rap song for younger people. However the poll by El Watan showed that over a third planned not to vote and in areas such as Bab el-Oued election billboards were mostly empty. High unemployment, water and housing shortages were also seen as contributing to the apathy in the election.\n\nOn the day before the election 23 people were killed in Sendjas by the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) in continued violence from the Algerian Civil War. On polling day itself security forces were out in force in Algiers with many roadblocks to prevent terrorist attacks.\n\nIn the north eastern Kabylie region a general strike was organised and running battles took place in the regional capital Tizi Ouzou to try to prevent the election from taking place in the region. Throughout much of the area polling stations were deserted and many did not open at all.\n\nThe results saw the National Liberation Front win a clear majority of seats. The party won over triple the seats it won at the last election, going from 64 to 199 seats. The RND dropped from 156 seats to 47 in a disastrous result for the party. The moderate Islamist parties suffered a small overall decline in support, with the MSP losing half its seats but the Movement for National Reform made gains and won 43 seats.\n\nTurnout in the election was the lowest yet since independence in 1962. Only 47% of the registered voters turned out to vote, compared to 63% in the 1997 election. 25 women were elected, 18 from the FLN, and after the election the number of women ministers was increased from one to five.\n"}
{"id": "56425958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56425958", "title": "Applefest (Bayfield, Wisconsin)", "text": "Applefest (Bayfield, Wisconsin)\n\nThe Bayfield Applefest is a fall harvest festival held in October, in Bayfield, Wisconsin. Founded in 1962, it has become a destination for many people from across the Midwest, with an annual attendance of approximately 60,000 people.\n\nThe festival is a celebration of Bayfield's local heritage, especially showcasing products from the many local apple orchards and wineries. The festival offers a variety of events and attractions. The street festival features over 60 booths, offering fresh foods and local crafts. Other attractions include tours of the 14 local orchards, live music, and an amusement park.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Jim Erickson, the owner of an orchard in Bayfield, was traveling to North Dakota to deliver a shipment of apples. While in Duluth, his truck had a flat tire. While waiting for a spare to be driven up from home, many people stopped to ask about buying his fruit. After selling bushels of apples to 25 people, he started wondering why he (and other Bayfield apple growers) were traveling so far to sell their goods. Realizing an opportunity, a discussion was raised about selling the local orchard's products more locally, and the idea of Applefest was born. The attendance of the first event in 1962 was 5,000. Over they years, Applefest has continued to experience huge growth in attendance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1322683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1322683", "title": "April 9 tragedy", "text": "April 9 tragedy\n\nThe April 9 tragedy (also known as Tbilisi massacre or Tbilisi tragedy) refers to the events in Tbilisi, Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, on April 9, 1989, when an anti-Soviet (but pro-Stalin) demonstration was dispersed by the Soviet Army, resulting in 21 deaths and hundreds of injuries. April 9 is now remembered as the Day of National Unity ( \"erovnuli ertianobis dghe\"), an annual public holiday.\n\nThe anti-Soviet movement became more active in the Georgian SSR in 1988. Several strikes and meetings were organized by anti-Soviet political organizations in Tbilisi. The conflict between the Soviet government and Georgian nationalists deepened after the so-called Lykhny Assembly on March 18, 1989, when several thousand Abkhaz demanded secession from Georgia and restoration of the Union republic status of 1921–1931. In response, the anti-Soviet groups organized a series of unsanctioned meetings across the republic, claiming that the Soviet government was using Abkhaz separatism in order to oppose the pro-independence movement.\n\nThe protests reached their peak on April 4, 1989, when tens of thousands of Georgians gathered before the House of Government on Rustaveli Avenue in Tbilisi. The protesters, led by the Independence Committee (Merab Kostava, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, Giorgi Chanturia, Irakli Bathiashvili, Irakli Tsereteli and others) organized a peaceful demonstration and hunger strikes, demanding the punishment of Abkhaz secessionists and restoration of Georgian independence.\n\nLocal Soviet authorities lost control over the situation in the capital and were unable to contain the protests. First Secretary of the Georgian Communist Party Jumber Patiashvili asked USSR leadership to send troops to restore order and impose curfew.\n\nIn the evening of April 8, 1989, Colonel General Igor Rodionov, Commander of the Transcaucasus Military District, ordered his troops to mobilize. Moments before the attack by the Soviet forces, the Patriarch of Georgia Ilia II addressed the demonstrators asking them to leave Rustaveli Avenue and the vicinity of the government building due to the danger which accumulated during the day after appearance of Soviet tanks near the avenue. The demonstrators refused to disband even after the Patriarch's plea. The local Georgian militsiya (police) units were disarmed just before the operation.\n\nOn April 9, at 3:45 a.m., Soviet APCs and troops under General Igor Rodionov surrounded the demonstration area. Later, Rodionov claimed in his interview that groups of Georgian militants attacked unarmed soldiers with stones, metal chains and rods. The Soviet troops received an order from General Rodionov to disband and clear the avenue of demonstrators by any means necessary.\n\nThe Soviet detachment, armed with military batons and spades (a favorite weapon of Soviet special forces ), advanced on demonstrators moving along the Rustaveli Avenue. During the advance, the soldiers started to attack demonstrators with spades, inflicting injuries both minor and serious to anyone who was struck.\n\nOne of the victims of the attack was a 16-year-old girl who tried to get away from the advancing soldiers, but was chased down and beaten to death near the steps of the government building, receiving blows to the head and chest. She was dragged out of the area by her mother who was also attacked and wounded. This particularly violent attack was recorded on video from the balcony of a building located on the other side of the avenue. The video was used in the aftermath as evidence during Sobchak's \"Parliamentary commission on investigation of events of April 9, 1989\". Groups of Soviet soldiers were reported to chase individual victims, rather than dispersing the crowd.\n\nThe stampede following the attack resulted in the death of 19 people, among them 17 women. Autopsies conducted on the victims concluded the direct cause of death of all those who died, with \nthe exception of one case of serious skull and brain injury, was suffocation (asphyxia) caused by both the compression of the body and the inhalation of chemical substances.\n\nOfficial Soviet reports blamed the demonstrators for causing the clash, saying that the troops were attacked with sticks and knives. According to Tass, the soldiers followed orders not to use their weapons, but that extremists attacked them with pieces of metal, bricks and sticks. Tass described the demonstrators as stirring interethnic strife and calling for the overthrow of the Georgian government. President Gorbachev slammed \"actions by irresponsible persons\" for loss of life. He said that the disturbances sought to overthrow the Georgian government and stir ethnic tension in Georgia. Foreign ministry spokesman said that the clashes were sparked by \"die-hard nationalists, extremists and political adventurists who are abusing democratization to the detriment of our new policy of openness and of our very society.\" \n\nCN and CS gas were used against the demonstrators; vomiting, respiratory problems and sudden paralyses of the nervous system were reported.\n\nThe unarmed police officers attempted to evacuate the panicked group of demonstrators, however a video taken secretly by opposition journalists showed that soldiers did not allow doctors and emergency workers to help the injured people; even ambulances were attacked by the advancing soldiers Captured on film, the image of a young man beating a tank with a stick became a symbol of the Georgian anti-Soviet movement.\n\nOn April 10, the Soviet government issued a statement blaming the demonstrators for causing unrest and danger to the safety of the public. The next day, Georgian TV showed the bodies of the 19 women violently killed, demonstrating alleged brutality by the Soviet soldiers, as the faces of the deceased women were hard to identify due to the facial injuries and blows to the head. The Soviet government blamed the demonstrators for the death of the 20 people, claiming that they had trampled each other while panicking and retreating from the advancing Soviet soldiers. Ironically there was some truth in this, as Soviet troops had blocked all exists from the area except for one narrow passage, which made flight from the area difficult and induced the crush of the crowd and, possibly, some desperate defensive violence by the trapped demonstrators.\n\nA Parliamentary commission on investigation of events of April 9, 1989 in Tbilisi was launched by Anatoly Sobchak, member of Congress of People's Deputies of Soviet Union. After full investigation and inquiries, the commission confirmed the government's claim that the deaths had resulted from trampling, but another contributing factor had been the chemical substances used against the demonstrators. It condemned the military, which had caused the deaths by trying to disperse demonstrators. The commission's report made it more difficult to use military power against demonstrations of civil unrest in the Soviet Union. Sobchak's report presented a detailed account of the violence which was used against the demonstrators and recommended the full prosecution of military personnel responsible for the April 9 event.\n\nOn April 10, in protest against the crackdown, Tbilisi and the rest of Georgia went out on strike and a 40-day period of mourning was declared. People brought massive collections of flowers to the place of the killings. A state of emergency was declared, but demonstrations continued.\n\nThe government of the Georgian SSR resigned as a result of the event. Moscow claimed the demonstrators attacked first and the soldiers had to repel them. At the first Congress of People's Deputies (May–June 1989) Mikhail Gorbachev disclaimed all responsibility, shifting blame onto the army. The revelations in the liberal Soviet media, as well as the findings of the \"pro-Perestroika\" Deputy Anatoly Sobchak's commission of enquiry into the Tbilisi events, reported at the second Congress in December 1989, resulted in embarrassment for the Soviet hardliners and army leadership implicated in the event.\n\nThe April 9 tragedy radicalised Georgian opposition to Soviet power. A few months later, a session of the Supreme Council of Georgian SSR, held on November 17–18, 1989, officially condemned the occupation and annexation of Democratic Republic of Georgia by Soviet Russia in 1921.\n\nThe events of April 9 also gave rise to the so-called 'Tbilisi Syndrome'. This syndrome was characterized by the reluctance of military officers and soldiers to take any tactical decisions or even obey orders without a clear trail of responsibility to a higher authority. It arose because of the Soviet leadership's refusal to take responsibility for the orders to clear the square and the commission report's and Shevardnadze's criticism of the military in general. 'Tbilisi Syndrome' continued to spread in the coming years, especially following events in Baku and Vilnius, and contributed in 1991 to the refusal of soldiers to prevent demonstrations during the August 1991 putsch.\n\nOn March 31, 1991, Georgians voted overwhelmingly in favor of independence from the Soviet Union in a referendum. With a 90.5% turnout, approximately 99% voted in favor of independence. On April 9, the second anniversary of the tragedy, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Georgia proclaimed Georgian sovereignty and independence from the Soviet Union.\n\nA memorial to the victims of the tragedy was opened at the location of the crackdown on Rustaveli Avenue on November 23, 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51883543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51883543", "title": "BlueSky Fiji", "text": "BlueSky Fiji\n\nBlueSky Fiji is an annual international R18 music festival held in Fiji. Bluesky Fiji was founded in 2012 and is known for pioneering international music festivals in Fiji. The festival has helped establish other international music festivals in Fiji including Spring Break Fiji.\n\nBlueSky Fiji was established in 2012 by Tourism HQ. It originally took place at Sonaisali Island Resort, but in 2015 the festival moved to Mana Island, Fiji.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50491460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50491460", "title": "Buffalo Dreams Fantastic Film Festival", "text": "Buffalo Dreams Fantastic Film Festival\n\nBuffalo Dreams Fantastic Film Festival was founded by Chris Scioli and by award-winning author and filmmaker Gregory Lamberson. The festival is a ten-day celebration which showcase various films from around the world.\n\nThe mission of the festival is to screen, \"bold, original and edgy films that are well made\" and to help year-round with providing a platform for Western, NY filmmakers to screen their work. In addition to a full feature schedule, the festival is known for its shorts blocks.\n\nThe festival often partners with Lloyd Kaufman and Troma to show early screenings of Troma films.\n\nScreenwriter and film producer Roy Frumkes judged the unproduced original screenplay competition for the 2016 season.\n\nThe festival gives out awards in a number of categories including special Dreamer Awards, Filmmaker of the Year Awards, Living Legend Awards, and the Lois Weber Award, designed to recognize the achievements of contemporary female filmmakers.\n\nThe 2017 special award winners were Adrian Esposito (Filmmaker of the Year), Devi Snively (Lois Weber Award), Fred Olen Ray (Living Legend Award), Jon Keeyes (Dedication to Excellence in Filmmaking), and Christopher Olen Ray (Indie Genre Spirit Award). The 2018 special award winners were Brett Kelly (Filmmaker of the Year), Sophia Cacciola (Lois Weber Award), Michael J. Epstein (Dedication to Excellence in Independent Filmmaking), and Sam Qualiana (Indie Genre Spirit Award).\n\nThe Incident (2015)\n\nBlood of the Tribades (2016)\n\nLet Her Out (2016)\n\nNight of the Virgin (2016)\n\nTonight She Comes (2016)\n\nPost Apocalyptic Commando Shark (2018)\n\nI Dare You to Open Your Eyes (2018)\n\nJohnny Gruesome (2018)\n\nClickbait (2018)\n\nDerelicts (2018)\n\nTommy Battles the Silver Sea Dragon (2018)\n\n"}
{"id": "42677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42677", "title": "Celtic Tiger", "text": "Celtic Tiger\n\n\"Celtic Tiger\" () is a term referring to the economy of the Republic of Ireland from the mid-1990s to the late-2000s, a period of rapid real economic growth fuelled by foreign direct investment. The boom was dampened by a subsequent property bubble which resulted in a severe economic downturn.\n\nAt the start of the 1990s, Ireland was a poor country by West European standards, with high poverty, unemployment, inflation, and low growth. The Irish economy expanded at an average rate of 9.4% between 1995 and 2000 and continued to grow at an average rate of 5.9% during the following decade until 2008, when it fell into recession. Ireland's rapid growth has been described as a rare example of a Western country to match the growth of East Asian nations, i.e. the 'Four Asian Tigers'.\n\nThe economy underwent a dramatic reversal from 2008, hit hard by the European economic crisis, with GDP contracting by 14% and unemployment levels rising to 14% by 2011.\n\nThe colloquial term \"Celtic Tiger\" has been used to refer to the country itself, and to the years associated with the boom. The first recorded use of the phrase is in a 1994 Morgan Stanley report by Kevin Gardiner. The term refers to Ireland's similarity to the East Asian Tigers: Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan during their periods of rapid growth in the early 1960s and late 1990s. \"An Tíogar Ceilteach\", the Irish language version of the term, appears in the Foras na Gaeilge terminology database and has been used in government and administrative contexts since at least 2005.\n\nThe Celtic Tiger period has also been called \"The Boom\" or \"Ireland's Economic Miracle\". During that time, the country experienced a period of economic growth that transformed it from one of Western Europe's poorer countries into one of its wealthiest. The causes of Ireland's growth are the subject of some debate, but credit has been primarily given to state-driven economic development; social partnership among employers, government and trade unions; increased participation by women in the labour force; decades of investment in domestic higher education; targeting of foreign direct investment; a low corporation tax rate; an English-speaking workforce; and membership of the European Union, which provided transfer payments and export access to the Single Market.\n\nBy mid-2007, in the wake of the growing global financial crisis, the Celtic Tiger had all but died. Some critics, such as David McWilliams, who had been warning about impending collapse for some time, concluded: \"The case is clear: an economically challenged government, perniciously influenced by the interests of the housing lobby, blew it. The entire Irish episode will be studied internationally in years to come as an example of how not to do things.\"\n\nHistorian Richard Aldous stated the Celtic Tiger has now gone the \"way of the dodo\". In early 2008, many commentators thought a soft landing was likely, but by January 2009, it seemed possible the country could experience a depression. In early January 2009, \"The Irish Times\", in an editorial, declared:\n\"We have gone from the Celtic Tiger to an era of financial fear with the suddenness of a Titanic-style shipwreck, thrown from comfort, even luxury, into a cold sea of uncertainty.\" In February 2010, a report by Davy Research concluded that Ireland had \"largely wasted” its years of high income during the boom, with private enterprise investing its wealth \"in the wrong places\". It compared Ireland's growth to other small eurozone countries such as Finland and Belgium – noting that the physical wealth of those countries exceeds that of Ireland because of their \"vastly superior\" transport infrastructure, telecommunications network, and public services.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2000, GDP growth rate ranged between 7.8 and 11.5%; it then slowed to between 4.4 and 6.5% from 2001 to 2007. During that period, the Irish GDP per capita rose dramatically to equal, then eventually surpass, that of all but one state in Western Europe. Although GDP does not represent the standard of living, and the GNP remained lower than the GDP, in 2007, the GNP achieved the same level as of some other Western European countries'.\n\nMany economists credit Ireland's growth to a low corporate taxation rate (10 to 12.5% throughout the late 1990s). Since 1956, successive Irish governments have pursued low-taxation policies.\n\nSince joining the EU in 1973, Ireland has received over €17 billion in EU Structural and Cohesion Funds. These are made up of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ESF) and were used to increase investment in the education system and to build physical infrastructure. These transfer payments from members of the European Union, such as Germany and France, were as high as 4% of Ireland's gross national product (GNP). Ireland is unique among cohesion countries, having allocated up to 35% of its Structural Funds to human resource investments, compared with an average of around 25% for other cohesion fund recipients. The Irish economy's increased productive capacity is sometimes attributed to these investments, which made Ireland more attractive to high-tech businesses, though the libertarian Cato Institute has suggested that the EU transfer payments were economically inefficient and may have actually slowed growth. The conservative Heritage Foundation also attributed to transfer payments no significant role in causing growth.\n\nIreland's membership in the EU since 1973 helped the country gain access to Europe's large markets. Ireland's trade had previously been predominantly with the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the 1990s, the provision of subsidies and investment capital by Irish state organisations (such as IDA Ireland) encouraged high-profile companies, such as Dell, Intel, and Microsoft, to locate in Ireland; these companies were attracted to Ireland because of its EU membership, relatively low wages, government grants, and low tax rates. Enterprise Ireland, a state agency, provides financial, technical, and social support to start-up businesses. Additionally, the building of the International Financial Services Centre in Dublin led to the creation of 14,000 high-value jobs in the accounting, legal, and financial management sectors.\n\nIn July 2003, the government established the Science Foundation Ireland on a statutory basis to promote education for highly skilled careers, particularly in biotechnology and information and communications technology, with the additional purpose to invest in science initiatives that aim to further Ireland's knowledge economy.\n\nThe time zone difference allows Irish and British employees to work the first part of each day while US workers sleep. US firms were drawn to Ireland by cheap wage costs compared to the UK, and by the limited government intervention in business compared to other EU members, and particularly to countries in Eastern Europe. Growing stability in Northern Ireland brought about by the Good Friday Agreement further established Ireland's ability to provide a stable business environment.\n\nIrish workers can communicate effectively with Americans – especially compared to those in other low-wage, non-English-speaking EU nations, such as Portugal and Spain; this factor was vital to U.S. companies' choosing Ireland for their European headquarters. It has also been argued that the demographic dividend from the rising ratio of workers to dependents due to falling fertility, and increased female labour market participation, increased income per capita.\n\nIreland was transformed from one of the poorest countries in Western Europe to one of the wealthiest. Disposable income soared to record levels, enabling a huge rise in consumer spending with foreign holidays accounting for over 91% of total holiday expenditure in 2004. However, the gap between the highest and lowest income households widened in the five-year period to 2004-2005; in response, the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) stated in 2002: \"On balance, budgets over the past 10 to 20 years have been more favourable to high income groups than low income groups, but particularly so during periods of high growth\". Unemployment fell from 18% in the late 1980s to 4.5% by the end of 2007, and average industrial wages grew at one of the highest rates in Europe. Inflation brushed 5% per annum towards the end of the \"Tiger\" period, pushing Irish prices up to those of Nordic Europe, even though wage rates are roughly the same as in the UK. The national debt had remained constant during the boom, but the GDP to debt ratio rose, due to the dramatic rise in GDP.\n\nThe new wealth resulted in large investments in modernising Irish infrastructure and cities. The National Development Plan led to improvements in roads, and new transport services were developed, such as the Luas light rail lines, the Dublin Port Tunnel, and the extension of the Cork Suburban Rail. Local authorities enhanced city streets and built monuments such as the Spire of Dublin.\n\nIreland's trend of net emigration was reversed as the republic became a destination for immigrants. This significantly changed Irish demographics and resulted in expanding multiculturalism, particularly in the Dublin, Cork, Limerick, and Galway areas. It was estimated in 2007 that 10% of Irish residents were foreign-born; most of the new arrivals were citizens of Poland and the Baltic states, many of whom found work in the retail and service sectors. A study conducted in 2006 found that many Irish people regarded immigration as an important factor for economic progress. Within Ireland, many young people left the rural countryside to live and work in urban centres.\nMany people in Ireland believe that the growing consumerism during the boom years eroded the country's culture, with the adoption of American capitalist ideals. While Ireland's historical economic ties to the UK had often been the subject of criticism, Peader Kirby argued that the new ties to the US economy were met with a \"satisfied silence\". Nevertheless, voices on the political left have decried the \"closer to Boston than Berlin\" philosophy of the Fianna Fáil-Progressive Democrat government. Writers such as William Wall, Mike McCormick, and Gerry Murphy have satirised these developments. Growing wealth was blamed for rising crime levels among youths, particularly alcohol-related violence resulting from increased spending power. However, it was also accompanied by rapidly increased life expectancy and very high quality of life ratings; the country ranked first in \"The Economist\"'s 2005 quality of life index, dropping to 12th by 2013.\n\nThe growing success of Ireland's economy encouraged entrepreneurship and risk-taking, qualities that had been dormant during poor economic periods. However, whilst some semblance of a culture of entrepreneurship exists, foreign-owned companies account for 93% of Ireland's exports.\n\nThe Celtic Tiger's growth slowed along with the slowing in the world economy in 2002 after seven years of high growth.\n\nThe economy was adversely affected by a large reduction in investment in the worldwide information technology (IT) industry. The industry had over-expanded in the late 1990s, and its stock market equity declined sharply. Ireland was a major player in the IT industry: in 2002, it had exported US$10.4 billion worth of computer services, compared to $6.9 billion from the US. Ireland accounted for approximately 50% of all mass-market packaged software sold in Europe in 2002 (OECD, 2002; OECD, 2004).\n\nFoot and mouth disease and the 11 September 2001 attacks damaged Ireland's tourism and agricultural sectors , deterring U.S. and British tourists. Several companies moved operations to Eastern Europe and the People's Republic of China because of a rise in Irish wage costs, insurance premiums, and a general reduction in Ireland's economic competitiveness. The rising value of the Euro hit non-EMU exports, particularly those to the U.S. and the United Kingdom.\n\nAt the same time, economies globally experienced a slowdown. The US economy grew only 0.3% in April, May, and June 2002 from a year earlier, and the Federal Reserve made 11 rate cuts that year in an attempt to stimulate the US economy. The EU scarcely grew throughout the whole of 2002, and many members' governments (notably in Germany and France) lost control of public finances, causing large deficits that broke the terms of the EMU Stability and Growth Pact.\n\nThe economic downturn in Ireland was not a recession but a slowdown in the rate of economic expansion. Signs of a recovery became evident in late 2003, as US investment levels increased once again. Many senior economists have heavily criticised the government for the economic imbalance in favour of the construction industry, and the prospect of sustaining economic growth in the future.\n\nAfter the slowdown in 2001 and 2002, Irish economic growth began to accelerate again in late 2003 and 2004. Some of the media considered that an opportunity to document the return of the Celtic Tiger – occasionally referred to in the press as the \"Celtic Tiger 2\" and \"Celtic Tiger Mark 2\". In 2004, Irish growth was the highest, at 4.5%, of the EU-15 states, and a similar figure was forecast for 2005. Those rates contrast with growth rates of 1% to 3% for many other European economies, including France, Germany, and Italy. The pace of expansion in lending to households from 2003-2007 was among the highest in the euro area\n\nIn 2006, there was a surge in Foreign Direct Investment and a net increase of 3,795 in IDA supported jobs, with International and Financial Services having the highest growth rate. The reasons for the continuation of the Irish economic boom were somewhat controversial within Ireland. Some Economists, Civil Rights Activists and Social Commentators have said that the growth throughout this period was merely due to a great increase in property values, and to catch-up growth in employment in the construction sector.\n\nGlobally, the U.S. recovery boosted Ireland's economy due to Ireland's close economic ties to the US. The decline in tourism as a result of foot and mouth disease and the 11 September 2001 attacks had reversed itself. The recovery of the global information technology industry was also a factor; Ireland produced 25% of all European PCs, and Apple, Dell (whose major European manufacturing plant was in Limerick), HP, and IBM all had sizeable Irish operations.\n\nThere had been a renewed investment by multinational firms. Intel had resumed its Irish expansion, Google created an office in Dublin, Abbott Laboratories was building a new Irish facility, and Bell Labs planned to open a future facility.\nDomestically, a new state body, Science Foundation Ireland, was established to promote new science companies in Ireland Maturing funds from the SSIA government savings scheme relaxed consumers' concerns about spending and thus fueled retail sales growth.\n\nIn September 2009, Tánaiste Mary Coughlan said Ireland had lost ground in international competitiveness every year since 2000.\n\nThe return of the boom in 2004 was claimed to be primarily the result of the large construction sector's catching up with the demand caused by the first boom. The construction sector represented nearly 12% of GDP and a large proportion of employment among young, unskilled men. A number of sources, including \"The Economist,\" warned of excessive Irish property values. 2004 saw the construction of 80,000 new homes, compared to the UK's 160,000 – a nation that has 15 times Ireland's population. House prices doubled between 2000 and 2006; tax incentives were a key driver of this price rise, and the Fianna Fáil-Progressive Democrats government subsequently received substantial criticism for these policies.\n\nIn January 2009, UCD economist Morgan Kelly predicted that house prices would fall by 80% from peak to trough in real terms.\n\nRising wages, inflation, and excessive public spending led to a loss of competitiveness in the Irish economy. Irish wages were substantially above the EU average, particularly in the Dublin region, though many poorer Eastern European states had joined the EU since 2004, substantially lowering the average EU wage below its 1995 level. Low-paid sectors, such as retail and hospitality, remained below the EU-15 average, however. The pressures primarily affect unskilled, semi-skilled, and manufacturing jobs. Outsourcing of professional jobs also increased, with Poland in 2008 gaining several hundred former Irish jobs from the accountancy divisions of Philips and Dell.\n\nOne of the major challenges facing Ireland is the successful promotion of indigenous industry. Although Ireland boasted a few large international companies, such as AIB, CRH, Élan, Kerry Group, Ryanair, and Smurfit Kappa, there are few companies with over one billion euros in annual revenue. The government has charged Enterprise Ireland with the task of boosting Ireland's indigenous industry and launched a website in 2003 with the objective of streamlining and marketing the process of starting a business in Ireland.\n\nIreland relies on imported fossil fuels for over 80% of its energy. Ireland for many years in the middle twentieth century limited its dependence on external energy sources by developing its peat bogs, building various hydroelectric projects, including a dam at Ardnacrusha on the River Shannon in 1928, developing offshore gas fields, and diversifying into coal in the 1970s. As gas, peat, and hydroelectric power have been almost fully exploited in Ireland, there is a continuously increasing need for imported fossil fuels at a time of increasing concerns about security of supply and global warming. One solution is to develop alternative energy sources, including wind power and, to a lesser extent, wave power. Wind,however, is not a panacea as it needs to have conventional plants to augment it. \n\nAn offshore wind farm is currently under construction off the east coast near Arklow, and many remote locations in the west show potential for wind farm development. A report by Sustainable Energy Ireland indicated that if wind power were properly developed, Ireland could one day be exporting excess wind power if the natural difficulties of integrating wind power into the national grid are solved. Wind power by November 2009 already accounted for 15.4% of total installed generating capacity in the state. By 2020, the Irish government forecasts that 40% of the country's energy needs will come from renewable sources, well above the EU average.\n\nIreland's new wealth is unevenly distributed. The United Nations reported in 2004 that Ireland was second only to the US in inequality among Western nations. There is some opposition to the theory that Ireland's wealth has been unusually unevenly distributed, among them economist and journalist David McWilliams. He cites Eurostat figures which indicate that Ireland is just above average in terms equality by one type of measurement. However, while it is better off by this measurement than generally less developed or more free market countries like Britain, the Mediterranean, and the new accession states, Ireland is still more unequal than France, Germany, and the Scandinavian countries. Moreover, Ireland's inequality persists by other measurements. According to an ESRI report published in December 2006, Ireland's child poverty level ranks 22nd out of the 26 richest countries, and it is the 2nd most unequal country in Europe.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" in 2005 described Ireland as the \"Wild West of European finance\", a perception that helped prompt the creation of the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. Despite its mandate for stricter oversight, the agency never imposed major sanctions on any Irish institution, even though Ireland had experienced several major banking scandals in overcharging of their customers. Industry representatives disputed the idea that Ireland may be home to unchecked financial frauds. In December 2008, irregularities in directors loans that had been kept off one bank's balance sheet for eight years forced the resignation of the financial regulator. Economic commentator David McWilliams has described the collapse of Anglo Irish Bank as Ireland's Enron.\nIn an economic analysis, the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) on 24 June 2008 forecasted the possibility the Irish economy would experience marginal negative growth in 2008. This would be the first time since 1983. Outlining possible prospects for the economy for 2008, the ESRI said output of goods and services might fall that year—which would have been the Irish definition of a mild recession. It also predicted a recovery in 2009 and 2010.\n\nIn September 2008, Ireland became the first eurozone country to officially enter recession. The recession was confirmed by figures from the Central Statistics Office showing the bursting of the property bubble and a collapse in consumer spending that terminated the boom that was the Celtic Tiger. The figures show the gross domestic product (GDP), which measures the value of all the goods and services produced in the State, fell 0.8% in the second three months of 2008 compared with the same quarter of 2007. That was the second successive quarter of negative economic growth, which is the definition of a recession. The Celtic Tiger was declared dead by October 2008\n\nIn a November 2008 interview in\" Hot Press,\" in a grim assessment of where Ireland stood, then Taoiseach Brian Cowen said many people still did not realise how badly shaken the public finances were.\nBy 30 January 2009, Ireland’s government debt had become the riskiest in the euro zone, surpassing Greece’s sovereign bonds, according to credit-default swap prices. In February 2009, Taoiseach Brian Cowen said that Ireland's economy appeared on course to contract by 6.5% in 2009.\n\nFormer Taoiseach Garret FitzGerald blamed Ireland's dire economic state in 2009 on a series of \"calamitous\" government policy errors. Between the years of 2000 and 2003 the then Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy boosted public spending by 48% while cutting income tax. A second problem occurred when government policies allowed, or even encouraged, a housing bubble to develop, \"on an immense scale\". However, he wrote nothing of the impact of the European Central Bank's low interest rates which funded the property bubble and further exacerbated the overheating economy\n\nNobel laureate Paul Krugman had a bleak prediction,\n\"“As far as responding to the recession goes, Ireland appears to be really, truly without options, other than to hope for an export-led recovery, if and when the rest of the world bounces back.”\"\n\nThe International Monetary Fund in mid-April 2009 forecast a very poor outlook for Ireland. It projected that the Irish economy would contract by 8 per cent in 2009 and by 3 per cent in 2010 – and that might be on the optimistic side.\n\nUnemployment in Ireland was forecasted to rise almost 17 percent in 2010, the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) stated in a report published on 28 April 2009, however the unemployment rate in 2010 steadied at 14%. In 2012, the unemployment rate was at 14.8 percent, and in order to escape economic downfall, Ireland requested €67.5 billion ($85.7 billion) from the International Monetary Fund and members of the euro area. Taking the money meant accepting austerity: The government has cut expenditure by 15 percent over three years, consumer spending has dropped for six straight quarters, and young Irish by the thousands have emigrated to Australia and elsewhere.\n\nOn 19 November 2010, The Irish Government had begun talks on a multibillion-dollar economic assistance package with experts from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the European Union.\n\nIn mid-2011 the ratings agency Moody's proceeded to downgrade Ireland's government bond ratings to junk.\n\nThe Celtic Tiger had more than just an economic impact, impacting also Ireland's social backdrop. 2007 research by the Economic and Social Research Institute, prior to the crash, found that fears over wider social inequality, declining community life, and a more selfish, materialist approach to life were largely unfounded, and that the social impact of the Celtic Tiger had largely been positive. The economic boom led to lower levels of emigration and higher immigration than had been historically been the case, and the government at the time did acknowledge that placed a strain on some public services and Ireland's approach to integration. \n\n\nhttp://www.economist.com/media/pdf/QUALITY_OF_LIFE.pdf\n"}
{"id": "51102305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51102305", "title": "Chennaiyil Thiruvaiyaru", "text": "Chennaiyil Thiruvaiyaru\n\nChennaiyil Thiruvaiyaru is an iconic music festival, which has been conducted consecutively since 2005. It is an eight-day Carnatic music festival lasting from 18 - 25 December every year at Kamarajar Arangam,Teynampet, Chennai. Performances by leading Carnatic and Hindustani stalwarts, legends, upcoming talents, musicians, dancers, and discourses have been scheduled elaborately in this weeklong event with more than 50 enchanting shows commencing from 7:00 am to 10:00 pm daily.\n\nCarnatic musicians and Rasikas of classical music, Thiruvaiyaru is also the place to go beyond the limitation of language, religion, caste, creed, and nationality and understand their true self through music. In 2005, Lakshman Sruthi promoted a platform for Indian Classical Music festival in Chennai in the name of Chennaiyil Thiruvaiyaru this festival provides a forum for established artists as well as new talent to exhibit their musical skills.\n\nMore than 500+ artists participated in this festival every year, and its held for about 8 days.Leading exponents of Carnatic music come to perform and to pay their homage to the Great Composer Sri Tyagaraja and watched by thousands of ardent fans of classical music.\n\nThis prestigious program has been inaugurated every year by eminent personalities like ‘Bharat Ratna’ Dr.A.P.J.Abdul Kalam, Padma Bhushan Kamal Hassan. Elaborate arrangements have been made to accommodate some 500+ artists to take part and render the eternal Pancharatna Kriti in unison. For this particular program, the stage arrangement will be a replica of the Thyagaraja Aradhana Mandapam at Thiruvaiyaru. Printed copies of the kritis will be distributed to members of the audience, who can join the singing.\n\nLakshman Sruthi - The musical consortium in Chennai, is conducting this event.\n\nA food festival is also being organized, along with the musical fest, within the same premises. The food fest comprises innovative, concept-oriented food stalls, exotic cuisine, competitions, vegetable carving, ice carving, organic and bio food stalls and cookery exhibits by leading chefs.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35374156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35374156", "title": "Fameal", "text": "Fameal\n\nFameal is a general word for a food product, used by Non-governmental organizations (NGOs), in programs to feed the hungry as a part of the Agricultural Act of 1949. The food product is made up of a wheat-soy meal blend of a cornmeal-soy blend (WSB or CSB, corn soy blend). This food is distributed, often aided by volunteers, in the Caribbean and West Africa.\n\nA premade mix of fameal is extrusion cooked for usage under primitive conditions. In this form, the meal is eaten as a thin paste or thickened and made into dumplings or bread. The taste is sometimes described as \"foody\" and some consider it delicious. The cooked product can be added to soups and casseroles or made into cookies.\n\nThe general measures of fameal are:\n\n\nIn preparation, the fameal is a powder which can be mixed slowly with boiling water (three cups of water per cup of meal). Once boiling, remove heat, cover, and allow to cook for 10 minutes. Alternatively, the meal can be used as a flour replacement for baking, similar to cornbread, or as a cake mix.\n"}
{"id": "44890884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44890884", "title": "First Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece", "text": "First Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece\n\nThe First Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece, initially called the Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece and usually referred to as the first bailout package or the first memorandum, is a memorandum of understanding on financial assistance to the Hellenic Republic in order to cope with the Greek government-debt crisis.\n\nIt was signed on 3 May 2010 by the Greek Government under then-prime minister George Papandreou on one hand, and on the other hand by the European Commission on behalf of the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).\n\nOf the totaling €107.3 billion of financial assistance, €72.8 billion were disbursed by 1 March 2012, when the programme was superseded by the Second Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece comprising the undisbursed amounts of the first programme and additional €130 billion for the years 2012–14.\n\nHaving had the credit rating agencies further downgraded Greece's ability to achieve and the risk premiums on long-term Greek government bonds first record levels, the Greek government on 23 April 2010 requested official financial assistance by the European Union and the IMF.\n\nOn 1–2 May 2010, European Commission, European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), colloquially called the European troika, agreed with the Greek government in a three-year financial aid programme that was outlined in a Memorandum of Understanding.\n\nThe total amount of €110 billion would consist of €80 billion bilateral loan commitments provided by the Eurogroup and pooled by the European Commission in the Greek Loan Facility (GLF), and additional €30 billion to be provided under a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) by the IMF, which was headed at the time by Dominique Strauss-Kahn.\n\nInstrumental in determining the rates of the individual euro area countries in the €80bn of the Eurozone was the respective equity interest in the capital of the ECB, which in turn is determined every five years after the prorated share of a country in the total population and economic output in the EU. The German share of the €80bn was 28%, or about €22.4bn in three years while France paid €16.8bn.\n\nThe amount of €80 billion to be provided by the Eurogroup was later reduced by €2.7bn, as Slovakia decided not to participate in the Greek Loan Facility Agreement and as Ireland and Portugal had to step down from the facility themselves requesting financial assistance.\n\nThe Greek debt in exchange for household should be consolidated within three years, so that the budget deficit should be reduced by 2014 to below 3 percent. The minutes of the IMF Executive Board were revealed nearly four years later, and highlight amongst other items, the fear that Greek social cohesion could be at risk. The Greek private sector, it was learned in 2014, was amenable to the deal because it curtailed the practice of paying civil servants a 13th and a 14th \"month\" each year. This curtailment was impossible for the Greek government to achieve on its own because of the political pressure inherent to the system.\n\nIn May 2010 Greece received the first tranche of the bailout loans totaling €20bn. Of this total, 5.5 billion came from the IMF and 14.5 billion of Euro states.\n\nOn 13 September the second tranche of €6.5bn was disbursed. The 3rd tranche of the same amount was paid on 19 January 2011. On 16 March, 4th tranche in the amount of €10.9 billion was paid out, followed by the 5th installment on 2 July. The 6th tranche of €8bn was paid out after months of delay in early December. Of this amount, the IMF provided €2.2bn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13161833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13161833", "title": "Great Depression in Central Europe", "text": "Great Depression in Central Europe\n\nThe Great Depression severely affected Central Europe. The unemployment rate in Germany, Austria and Poland rose to 20% while output fell by 40%. By November 1949, every European country had increased tariffs or introduced import quotas. \n\nUnder the Dawes Plan, the German economy boomed in the 1920s, paying reparations and increasing domestic production. Germany's economy retracted in 1929 when Congress discontinued the Dawes Plan loans. This was not just a problem for Germany. Europe received almost $8 billion USD in American credit between 1924 and 1930 in addition to previous war time loans.\n\nGermany's Weimar Republic was hit hard by the depression as American loans to help rebuild the German economy now stopped. Unemployment soared, especially in larger cities. Repayment of the war reparations due by Germany were suspended in 1932 following the Lausanne Conference of 1932. By that time, Germany had repaid 1/8 of the reparations. People were devastated about how the Weimar Republic dealt with the economy.\n\nFalling prices and demand induced by the crisis created an additional problem in the central European banking system, where the financial system had particularly close relationships with business. In 1931, the Creditanstalt bank in Vienna collapsed, causing a financial panic across Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "53985560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53985560", "title": "Hypatia transracialism controversy", "text": "Hypatia transracialism controversy\n\nThe feminist philosophy journal became involved in a dispute in April 2017 that led to the online shaming of one of its authors, Rebecca Tuvel, a Canadian untenured assistant professor of philosophy at Rhodes College in Memphis. The journal had published a peer-reviewed article by Tuvel in which she compared aspects of the situation of Caitlyn Jenner, a trans woman, to that of Rachel Dolezal, a white woman who identifies as black. When the article was criticized on social media, scholars associated with \"Hypatia\" joined in the criticism and urged the journal to retract it. The controversy exposed a rift within the journal's editorial team and more broadly within feminism and academic philosophy.\n\nIn the article—\"In Defense of Transracialism\", published in \"Hypatia\"s spring 2017 issue on 25 April—Tuvel argued that \"[s]ince we should accept transgender individuals' decisions to change sexes, we should also accept transracial individuals' decisions to change races.\" Three days later, a small group on Facebook and Twitter began criticizing the article and attacking Tuvel. From 29 April an open letter, naming a member of \"Hypatia\"s editorial board as its point of contact, urged that the article be retracted. The article's publication had sent a message, the letter said, that \"white cis scholars may engage in speculative discussion of these themes\" without engaging \"theorists whose lives are most directly affected by transphobia and racism\".\n\nOn 1 May a post appeared on the journal's Facebook page apologizing for the article's publication, on behalf of \"a majority\" of \"Hypatia\"s associate editors. By the following day the open letter had 830 signatories, including scholars associated with \"Hypatia\" and two members of Tuvel's dissertation committee. \"Hypatia\"s editor-in-chief, Sally Scholz, and its board of directors stood by the article. When Scholz resigned in July 2017, the board decided to suspend the associate editors' authority to appoint the next editor, in response to which eight associate editors resigned. The directors set up a task force to restructure the journal's governance. In February 2018 the directors themselves were replaced.\n\nThe academic community responded with support for Tuvel. The affair exposed fault lines within philosophy about peer review, analytic versus continental philosophy, diversity within the profession, who is deemed qualified to write about people's lived experience, the pressures of social media, and how to preserve the free exchange of ideas.\n\nFounded by Azizah Y. al-Hibri in 1986 and published by John Wiley & Sons, \"Hypatia\" is owned by a non-profit corporation, Hypatia, Inc. At the time of the dispute Miriam Solomon (Temple) was president of the board of directors and Sally Scholz (Villanova) editor-in-chief. In addition to the directors and editorial staff, in April 2017 there was a 25-strong editorial board; a 10-member advisory board; 12 local editorial advisors; and a board of 10 associate editors. The associate editors, who appointed the editors-in-chief and advised on editorial policy, consisted of Linda Martín Alcoff (CUNY); Ann Cahill (Elon); Kim Hall (App State); Cressida Heyes (Alberta); Karen Jones (Melbourne); Kyoo Lee (John Jay); Mariana Ortega (John Carroll); Ásta Kristjana Sveinsdóttir (SFSU); Alison Wylie (Washington); and George Yancy (Emory).\n\nRebecca Tuvel was born in Toronto, Canada, to a Jewish family; her mother is a pharmacist and her father a dentist. Tuvel attributes her interest in justice to the loss of family members during the Holocaust; both her grandfathers were survivors. Also interested in feminist philosophy, the philosophy of race, and animal ethics, Tuvel completed her BA at McGill University in 2007, and obtained her PhD in 2014 from Vanderbilt University for a thesis entitled \"Epistemic Injustice Expanded: A Feminist, Animal Studies Approach\". In the fall of 2014 she joined Rhodes College in Memphis, Tennessee, as an assistant professor of philosophy.\n\nTuvel began writing the article after noticing the contrast, in 2015, between the reception given to Caitlyn Jenner's coming out as a trans woman in April and that given in June to Rachel Dolezal, a white woman who identifies and had been passing as black. Jenner became one of \"Glamour\" magazine's Women of the Year and appeared on the cover of \"Vanity Fair\", while Dolezal lost her position as president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People chapter in Spokane, Washington, and became, in her view, unemployable. Tuvel was not interested in the details of the cases but in their structure. She set about writing an argument in support of the position: \"Since we should accept transgender individuals' decisions to change sexes, we should also accept transracial individuals' decisions to change races.\"\n\nTuvel suggests that \"[g]enerally, we treat people wrongly when we block them from assuming the personal identity they wish to assume.\" As an example, she offers conversion to Judaism. Assuming there is no reason to block the conversion, such as the rabbi doubting the seriousness of the commitment, transition to the new identity will be accepted. Self-identification and social recognition of the new identity are the two components needed for a successful change.\n\nTuvel then argues for \"an account of race that allows for racial membership on the basis of social treatment and ... self-identification\". She maintains that race is a malleable social construct and that, while ancestry—a feature external to the body—is a highly valued determinant of race in America, its value varies elsewhere. In Brazil, for example, Tuvel suggests that Dolezal's exposure to black culture, self-identification as black, and living as someone society had accepted as black, would be enough to deem her black. From a genetic standpoint, there is no matter of fact, no \"real race\", Tuvel writes.\n\nFour objections to transracialism are addressed and rejected. The first is that a claim to be black cannot be accepted without the experience of having grown up with the suffering anti-black racism causes; Tuvel quotes the journalist Touré, who called this the \"one thing that binds black people\" That trans women are not raised with the suffering caused by sexism is not reason enough, Tuvel argues, to reject their identification as women. Following this argument, Dolezal's experience of racism while living as a black woman would be sufficient exposure.\n\nThe second objection holds that Dolezal cannot identify as black because of the importance placed on ancestry (in America, at least). No matter the genetic facts, there is intersubjective agreement that ancestry matters; it is crucial because it is regarded as crucial. Tuvel argues that this position—espoused by Cressida Heyes, the associate editor who posted the apology—holds the possibility of change \"hostage to the status quo\". How racial categorization does operate is not necessarily how it should operate.\n\nThird, there is an objection that the black community is harmed when a white individual seeks to enter that category; several commentators compared Dolezal's passing as black to the harmful practice of blackface. Tuvel distinguishes between what she calls problematic and unproblematic identification. Dolezal's self-identification is not based on a change in physical appearance alone; there is nothing obviously insulting about it; her change does not appear to be temporary; there are no questionable ends; and there is no reinforcement of harmful stereotypes. It is therefore an example of unproblematic identification, Tuvel argues.\n\nA fourth objection holds that Dolezal is engaged in a \"wrongful exercise of white privilege\". This argument holds that a white person can restore their white privilege whenever they need it; a black person is denied this ease of movement. Tuvel quotes the writer Tamara Winfrey Harris: \"I will accept Ms. Dolezal as black like me only when society can accept me as white like her.\" Tuvel writes that the same argument applies to trans women, especially before surgery; that someone could return to male privilege should not preclude their transition. She argues further than the exercise of privilege is a separate issue. That more men than women get jobs as philosophy professors does not mean we should get rid of philosophy professors; instead, we should address the inequality. Similarly, if society comes to accept transracialism, it could be made easier for all races to transition. Tuvel adds that it is hard to see how Dolezal could be accused of exercising white privilege by choosing to give it up.\n\nFinally, Tuvel asks whether, if we accept her position, we are obliged to accept any and all self-identification, such as individuals who identify as nonhuman. She repeats that two components are necessary for a successful change: self-identification and social acceptance of the new identity. It is reasonable to ask that social acceptance depend on it being possible for individuals to imagine what it is like to exist and be treated as a member of the category they seek to join. Without that, there is \"too little commonality to make the group designation meaningful\".\n\nThe paper thanks J. Baird Callicott (UNT), Andrew Forcehimes (NTU) and David Gray (UofM) for having read earlier drafts and Rhodes College for having given Tuvel a grant to fund the research; before the controversy she had intended to write a book about the ethics of changing race. Tuvel submitted the article to \"Hypatia\" on 12 February 2016, and on 26 February she presented it to a conference at the University of Waterloo. The manuscript was revised on 24 September and accepted for publication on 10 October 2016, after the standard double-anonymous peer review by at least two reviewers.\nOn 4 January 2017 Tuvel presented the paper to the American Philosophical Association (APA) Eastern Division, during a meeting chaired by Verena Erlenbusch (UofM). Scheduled commentators at the APA meeting were Kris Sealey (Fairfield), one of \"Hypatia\"s reviewers in 2016, and Tina Fernandes Botts (Fresno State). Sealey responded with a detailed rebuttal, including that the biology of race \"is really about a relationship between actual genetic ancestry (on the one hand), and the cultural and social signification of that ancestry (on the other), which then allows ancestry to mean certain things, in certain contexts, for certain groups of people. Hence, the role and predicative force of ancestry, in my racial identity, is not biological at all, but rather, social (or cultural).\" She argued further that \"the white person who attempts to shed her white identity becomes blind to the racial privilege that she cannot opt out of\", and that, while Dolezal's racial identity might be approached differently in Brazil, that does not mean that a Brazilian context can be applied to the United States.\n\nBotts was unable to attend, but she submitted a couple of paragraphs in reply to Tuvel and the panel members, arguing that the contemporary understanding of race in the United States in the 21st century is that it is an \"identity marker based in ancestry\", which unlike gender is not changeable; she called race \"externally derived\" and gender \"internally derived\". She received no response to her submission. She presented a more detailed position at a meeting at Fresno State in early March, and at the April 2017 Res Philosophica conference at Saint Louis University. \"Hypatia\" made Tuvel's article available online on 29 March 2017 and published it in their spring issue on 25 April. Botts was at the Res Philosophica conference when Tuvel's paper was published. There was support at the conference for both Botts' and Tuvel's positions. According to Botts, the \"view was articulated\" that Tuvel's ideas were out of step with recent scholarship, but that she might be onto something in calling for the right to reject one's designated race.\n\nOn Friday, 28 April 2017, Tuvel and the article came under attack on Facebook and Twitter. Tuvel was called transphobic, racist, crazy and stupid, and was accused of having engaged in \"epistemic violence\". Several feminists referred to her as a \"Becky\", a pejorative sexist term. The article was called violent, crap and \"wack shit\". Kelly Oliver, W. Alton Jones Professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt University, who chaired Tuvel's dissertation committee in 2014, made an effort on Facebook to defend Tuvel by asking for arguments rather than insults, and suggested that \"Hypatia\" invite critical responses. She was told her comments were \"unforgivable\", and that her suggestions were \"doing violence\" and triggering PTSD.\n\nAccording to Oliver, several people associated with \"Hypatia\" joined in the criticism and apologized individually for the article. A friend of Oliver's described one of the Facebook apologies as \"like something ISIS makes its captors read in a hostage video before beheading them\". Dissenters were shut down or afraid to speak up. Several people who wrote sympathetically to Tuvel in private attacked her in public. Others who posted criticism acknowledged privately that they had not read the article. A \"senior feminist philosopher\" telephoned Tuvel to remind her that she had to appeal to the \"right people\" to get tenure. Oliver writes: \"Through every medium imaginable, senior feminist scholars were pressuring, even \"threatening\", Tuvel that she wouldn't get tenure and her career would be ruined if she didn’t retract her article.\" Tuvel said that people were \"absolutely vicious\" toward her.\n\nNora Berenstain, assistant professor of philosophy at the University of Tennessee, wrote on Facebook on 29 April that the paper contained \"egregious levels of liberal white ignorance and discursive transmisogynistic violence\". Criticizing Tuvel for failing to cite women-of-color philosophers or black trans women, Berenstain objected to Tuvel's parenthetical reference to Jenner's former name (deadnaming), and her use of the terms \"transgenderism\", \"biological sex\" and \"male genitalia\". The paper's references to surgery, Berenstain wrote, objectified trans bodies, and its reference to \"a male-to-female (mtf) trans individual who could return to male privilege\" promoted \"the harmful transmisogynistic ideology that trans women have (at some point had) male privilege\".\n\nAn open letter requesting a retraction began to circulate on 29 April 2017; its point of contact was Alexis Shotwell of \"Hypatia\"s editorial board. The letter had 130 signatories by 9 am on 1 May, 520 later that day, and 830 by the afternoon of 2 May. According to Singal, the top five signatories were Elise Springer (Wesleyan), Alexis Shotwell (Carleton), Dilek Huseyinzadegan (Emory), Lori Gruen (Wesleyan), and Shannon Winnubst (Ohio State). Lisa Guenther (Vanderbilt) also signed it; Gruen and Guenther were members of Tuvel's dissertation committee in 2014.\n\nDelivered on 2 May to \"Hypatia\"s editor-in-chief, the letter urged the journal to retract the article; avoid deadnaming; open its editorial procedures to scrutiny; release a statement about how it plans to improve its review process; and undertake to involve in future \"people targeted by transphobia and racism and scholars who specialize in the related relevant subfields of philosophy\". It alleged that the article had fallen \"short of scholarly standards\":\n\nAccording to Justin Weinberg, associate professor of philosophy at the University of South Carolina, and Jesse Singal of \"New York\" magazine, most of the letter's claims were false or arguable. Regarding the term \"transgenderism\", GLAAD does caution against its use. The deadnaming consisted of Tuvel including Jenner's previous name in parentheses, a name that Jenner herself refers to, Singal wrote. Weinberg argued that it was unclear why the conversion example was deemed objectionable; it consisted of a paragraph explaining that, barring (for example) objections from the rabbi that the prospective convert is not committed to Judaism, those who wish to become Jews can do so. Weinberg also argued that Tuvel had not identified Charles Mills as a \"defender of voluntary racial identification\"; he wrote that this allegation was \"just plain false\".\n\nThe criticism that Tuvel had not cited enough women of color may be a fair point, according to Singal, but hardly sufficient to demand a retraction. Weinberg argued that Tuvel's critics had failed to point out a particular work that was both directly relevant and that had been omitted.\n\nOn 30 April 2017—two days before the open letter was delivered to \"Hypatia\"—Cressida Heyes, then one of \"Hypatia\"s 10 associate editors, posted a 1,000-word apology on her Facebook page from \"We, the members of Hypatia's Board of Associate Editors\". The post was later removed or made private. On 1 May it was reposted to \"Hypatia\"s Facebook page, this time ending with \"Sincerely, A Majority of the Hypatia's Board of Associated Editors\". The apology stated: \"We, the members of Hypatia's Board of Associate Editors, extend our profound apology to our friends and colleagues in feminist philosophy, especially transfeminists, queer feminists, and feminists of color, for the harms that the publication of the article on transracialism has caused\":\n\nTo compare ethically the lived experience of trans people (from a distinctly external perspective) primarily to a single example of a white person claiming to have adopted a black identity creates an equivalency that fails to recognize the history of racial appropriation, while also associating trans people with racial appropriation. We recognize and mourn that these harms will disproportionately fall upon those members of our community who continue to experience marginalization and discrimination due to racism and cisnormativity.\n\nIt continued that \"clearly, the article should not have been published\", and blamed the review process, which had exposed Tuvel to criticism that was \"both predictable and justifiable\". The associate editors had been asked but declined to name the anonymous reviewers.\n\nTuvel issued a statement, on 1 May 2017, in response to the associate editors' apology:\n\nI wrote this piece from a place of support for those with non-normative identities, and frustration about the ways individuals who inhabit them are so often excoriated, body-shamed, and silenced. When the case of Rachel Dolezal surfaced, I perceived a transphobic logic that lay at the heart of the constant attacks against her. My article is an effort to extend our thinking alongside transgender theories to other non-normative possibilities.\n\nCiting scholars who have adopted sympathetic positions on transracialism, including Adolph L. Reed Jr. and Melissa Harris-Perry, she argued that failing to examine the issues would \"reinforce gender and racial essentialism\". She apologized for the parenthetical reference to Jenner's previous name, which was removed from the article at her request on 4 May. She also acknowledged that \"[a] valid reproach is that my article discusses the lives of vulnerable people without sufficiently citing their own first-person experiences and views.\" Expressing concern about the personal attacks and hate mail she had received, including from commentators who had not read the article, she wrote that commentators had warned her that failing to retract the article would \"be devastating for ... [her] personally, professionally, and morally\". She argued that \"critical thought is in danger\", and that \"the last place one expects to find such calls for censorship rather than discussion is amongst philosophers\".\n\nSally Scholz, the journal's editor-in-chief, offered her support to Tuvel on 6 May, writing that \"it is utterly inappropriate for editors to repudiate an article they have accepted for publication (barring issues of plagiarism or falsification of data).\" The board of associate editors was a policy board with no role in the journal's management, she wrote, and it had acted independently in drafting and posting the letter. Scholz's position was supported by Miriam Solomon, president of Hypatia Inc.'s board of directors. Scholz, the board and the publisher, John Wiley & Sons, referred the matter to the Committee on Publication Ethics.\n\nOn 18 May the board issued a statement with a mixed message. Signed by Elizabeth Anderson, Leslie Francis (treasurer), Heidi Grasswick (secretary), Solomon (president), and Lisa Tessman (chair), it acknowledged the \"intensity of experience and convictions around matters of intersectionality\", and the \"egregious history of treatment of women of color feminists and feminists from other marginalized social positions\" within academic philosophy. Dismissing the view that objections to the article were too minor to have triggered such a strong response, the board wrote that such a view from \"outsiders\" reflects \"ignorance of the cumulative history of marginalization, disrespect, and misrepresentation of oppressed groups\". The statement continued that the associate editors had apologized without adequate consultation with the editor-in-chief and on their own behalf only. Condemning the personal attacks on Tuvel, the directors said they stood behind the editor-in-chief and that the article would not be retracted \"barring discovery of misconduct or plagiarism\". The associate editors' apology remained on \"Hypatia\"s Facebook page; on 25 May 2017 it was updated to say that it did not represent the views of the editor or board of directors.\n\nThe academic community came out in support of Tuvel, particularly on two popular philosophy blogs, Justin Weinberg's \"Daily Nous\" and Brian Leiter's \"Leiter Reports\". Leiter wrote that he had \"never seen anything like this in academic philosophy\". Mark Newman, chair of the Rhodes College philosophy department where Tuvel teaches, expressed the department's \"complete and unconditional support\" for her.\n\nThe concept of harm had been \"twisted beyond all recognition\" by the associate editors' letter, according to José Luis Bermúdez, professor of philosophy at Texas A&M University. Paul Bloom called the episode \"a bizarre and ugly attack\". Several commentators blamed social media's call-out culture for the speed with which the dispute unfolded. In the view of Suzanna Danuta Walters, editor-in-chief of the feminist journal \"Signs\", the associate editors had undermined \"the whole process of peer review and the principles of scholarly debate\". Dan Kaufman, professor of philosophy at Missouri State University, blamed the profession's \"increasing obsession with identity politics\" and \"purity-purges\". Rogers Brubaker, author of \"Trans: Gender and Race in an Age of Unsettled Identities\" (2016), described as \"epistemological insiderism\" the idea that certain issues can be covered only by particular categories of scholar, and that as a white cisgender woman Tuvel had no standing to argue about transgender or transracial issues. For Brubaker, acknowledging himself as a white cisgender man, this position means not only that certain topics are too easily closed off to particular scholars, but that scholars with lived experience are expected to focus on those topics.\nSystemic sexism within the discipline was cited. There had been tension for some time between \"Hypatia\" and women-of-color philosophers, who believed the journal did not take their work seriously, according to Tina Fernandes Botts. Botts was critical of the \"Hypatia\" peer-review process that had allowed the paper to be published. \"What you do when someone submits the paper is you find people who are experts in that area to review it,\" she told \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"to make sure that it is situated within contemporary scholarly discussions. Obviously they didn’t do that.\"\n\nSally Haslanger, later appointed co-chair of \"Hypatia\" governance task force, complained about poor working conditions and the narrow focus of philosophy journals; she wrote that there are days she can \"hardly stand the arrogance, the ignorance, the complacency, in short, the bullshit, of the profession\". The situation was not Tuvel's fault; she had been unfairly targeted, in Haslanger's view. Of 13,000 professional philosophers in the United States in 2013, she wrote, only 55 were black women and 30 percent of those were PhD students. Citing sexual-harassment complaints and figures showing that, in 2016, 75 percent of APA members identified as male and 80 percent white, Shannon Winnubst, editor of the feminist journal \"PhiloSOPHIA\" and one of the open letter's top signatories, wrote that the publication of Tuvel's article had brought \"all of the systemic problems\" of philosophy and feminist philosophy to a head. Oliver Traldi argued in \"Quillette\" that the dispute was partly attributable to the influence of continental as opposed to analytic philosophy, and the idea that philosophy should be a vehicle for social change, rather than an impartial search for truth.\n\nThe Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) reported in July 2017 that the associate editors' apology had been inappropriate, and that, when responding to an external complaint about a journal article, an internal inquiry should be held prior to a public response. The associate editors apparently refused to accept the report's conclusions. On 20 July \"Hypatia\" announced the resignation of Scholz, the editor-in-chief, and Shelley Wilcox, editor of Hypatia Reviews Online. They also announced that a task force would restructure the journal's governance, and that anyone holding an editorial or non-board position with \"Hypatia\" would be \"required to sign a statement of adherence\" to COPE guidelines.\n\nAccording to a statement from the associate editors, the board asked them, on 17 July, to resign or it would suspend the journal's governance documents, thereby removing the associate editors' authority to choose the next editor. Eight of the associate editors resigned. In a resignation letter, they argued that feminist philosophy had an ethical commitment to transform philosophy into \"a discipline that honors the perspectives and welcomes the scholarly contributions of historically marginalized groups, including people of color, trans* people, disabled people, and queer people\".\n\nSally Haslanger, Serene Khader and Yannik Thiem were named as co-chairs of the governance task force, and Ann Garry, Serene Khader, and Alison Stone were appointed as interim editors. In February 2018 the five-person board of directors was replaced. Linda Martín Alcoff and Kim Hall, two of the associate editors who resigned in July, became, respectively, president of the board of directors and chair of the search committee for the new editorial team.\n\nPeg Birmingham, editor of \"Philosophy Today\", published a symposium on Tuvel's article in the journal's Winter 2018 edition, with contributions from Chloë Taylor (Alberta), Lewis Gordon (UConn), Kris Sealey (Fairfield), Sabrina Hom (GCSU), Tina Fernandes Botts and Rebecca Tuvel. In March 2018 the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation extended a $75,000 grant to Fairfield University to develop a \"code of ethics for publishing in the field of philosophy\", naming Sealey, a member of the \"Hypatia\" governance task force, as the project lead. Referring to \"[r]ecent publishing controversies\", Amy Ferrer, executive director of the American Philosophical Association, said the aim was to \"develop guidance that scholars, editors, and publishers alike can use to ensure that they produce scholarship that meets the highest ethical and intellectual standards\".\n\n\nRelated\n\n"}
{"id": "35392804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35392804", "title": "ITV Specials", "text": "ITV Specials\n\nITV Specials are a selection of programmes which focus on some of the biggest stars in music, dance and magic. \n\nSince 24 December 2005, stars including Cheryl, Michael Flatley, the Spice Girls and Duran Duran have featured in these special programmes. They are presented by various presenters including Phillip Schofield, Christine Lampard, Paul O'Grady, Ben Shephard, Reggie Yates, Alan Titchmarsh, Fearne Cotton, Steve Jones, Holly Willoughby, Stephen Mulhern, Zoë Ball and Emma Willis.\n\nThere are six main \"types\" or \"series\" of music specials aired on ITV. The basic format remains the same for most shows. Occasionally, the star/s of the show may also present their special (such as Michael Bublé on all occasions). The first special aired was \"Best Ever Christmas Films\" on 24 December 2005, hosted by Phillip Schofield.\n\nOther specials have included \"Michael Flatley: A Night to Remember\" and \"Darcy Oake: Edge of Reality\", both presented by Christine Lampard in 2014. \n\nThere have been \"...\"Story\"\" specials such as \"The Talent Show Story\" (narrated by Victoria Wood) and \"Come on Down! The Game Show Story\" (presented and narrated by Bradley Walsh). Stephen Mulhern has presented/narrated a few specials including \"The Magic Show Story\" and \"The Saturday Night Story\", both of which aired in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "30918756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30918756", "title": "International Hot-Air Balloon Festival in Château-d'Oex", "text": "International Hot-Air Balloon Festival in Château-d'Oex\n\nThe International Hot-Air Balloon Festival in Château-d'Oex is a hot-air balloons festival that has taken place every year during nine days at the end of January in Château-d'Œx, Switzerland since 1979. It is attended by nearly a hundred balloons from over twenty countries. It is famous for taking place in a snowy valley (most of the time) and also for a unique event : the \"night-glow\" show, where all the balloons are exposed on the mountain, lit by their burners, during the evening of the 7th day.\n\n"}
{"id": "21196062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21196062", "title": "Invitations to the first inauguration of Barack Obama", "text": "Invitations to the first inauguration of Barack Obama\n\nOne million invitations to Barack Obama's inauguration were sent out in the first week of January 2009. Printed between December 11, 2008, and January 2, 2009, the invitations invited people to celebrate Barack Obama's inauguration as the forty-fourth President of the United States. The invitations have kept the same basic design of a gold seal and black script since the 1949 inauguration of Harry S. Truman, but this invitation was produced in a green manner, using recycled paper, by companies certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).\n\nThe invitations have followed the same design since those for Harry S. Truman's presidential inauguration on January 20, 1949. The invitations have a gold embossed inauguration seal at the top of the page and black-inked script using customized Shelley Alegro and Kuenstler typefaces. The invitation reads, \"The Presidential Inaugural Committee requests the honor of your presence to attend and participate in the Inauguration of Barack H. Obama as President of the United States of America and Joseph R. Biden Jr. as Vice President of the United States of America on Tuesday, the twentieth of January two thousand and nine in the city of Washington.\"\n\nInk for the invitations was supplied by Chicago company BuzzInk, and the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies selected Precise Continental of Brooklyn, New York to print the invitations. Precise Continental was selected because it is a union company, uses recycled paper, and is Forest Stewardship Council certified. The printing technique for the invitations was engraving. The design was cut into the surface of a copper plate, which was then inked and inserted into a printing press with a sheet of paper. The result is a slightly raised impression on the front of the page and a slightly indented impression on the bottom. The first plate had to be scrapped because it was engraved without the President's middle initial. The golden seal was engraved in three printing runs. The first print laid down a rough-textured basic gold shape. The second run added smoothness and shine, and the final print run added the fine details to the seal. One million invitations were printed over 20 hours every day between December 11, 2008, and January 2, 2009, with employees working in two shifts and taking breaks only on Christmas Day and New Year's Day. The invitations were printed one at a time on 11×17 sheets of paper, which were then cut in half to 8½×11 sheets.\n\nThe paper used to print the invitations on initially came from Michigan. Waste paper collected from local companies in Grand Rapids was collected by Louis Padnos Iron & Metal. It was shipped to Wisconsin, where it was turned into pulp. The Whiting Paper Mill, owned by Neenah Paper, another FSC certified company, converted the pulp into \"CLASSIC CREST Recycled 100 Natural White Papers manufactured by Neenah Paper\", which contains FSC certified fibers and is made with 100 percent renewable green energy in a completely carbon-neutral, chlorine-free process. The paper was delivered to Precise by Central National-Gottesman, another FSC certified company.\n\nPrompt Mailers of Staten Island, New York mailed the invitations, which also included a letter from the Presidential Inaugural Committee and a leaflet from the inaugural store. Between December 31, 2008, and January 7, 2009, 3,100 to 3,500 envelopes were filled and sealed every hour.\n\nInvitations were sent to the chiefs of diplomatic missions to the United States and their spouses but not to any other representatives of foreign countries. As a result, North Korea's offer to send a senior envoy was rejected. The Tuskegee Airmen were among the invited guests for the inauguration. The five-person crew of US Airways Flight 1549, including pilot Chesley Sullenberger, were also invited. Entertainment industry figures such as Beyoncé, Jay-Z, Steven Spielberg, Magic Johnson, Dustin Hoffman, Muhammad Ali, John Cusack, and Oprah Winfrey received invitations, as well as politicians such as Arnold Schwarzenegger, Governor of California; Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy; and Arizona Senator John McCain. The invitiation to Evangelical pastor Rick Warren drew some criticism.\n\nEighty-seven-year-old Sarah Obama led a group of Obama's Kenyan relatives from his father's home village of Kogelo. Other relatives traveling to Washington from Kenya as guests included Obama's aunt Maggie Obama and an uncle, Said Obama.\n\nMembers of the general public also received invitations to the inaugural ceremony. Invitations were sent to constituents, who received one of the 240,000 color-coded tickets to the inaugural ceremony distributed by House and Senate congressional members of the 111th U.S. Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "33136590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33136590", "title": "Klemperer – Ein Leben in Deutschland", "text": "Klemperer – Ein Leben in Deutschland\n\nKlemperer – Ein Leben in Deutschland is a German television series.\n\n"}
{"id": "6982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6982", "title": "List of classical music competitions", "text": "List of classical music competitions\n\nEuropean Classical music has long relied on music competitions to provide a public forum that identifies the strongest players and contributes to the establishment of their professional careers. This is a list of current competitions in classical music, with each competition and reference link given only once. Many offer competitions across a range of categories and in these cases they are listed under \"General/mixed\". Competitions with age restrictions are listed under \"Young musicians\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1014588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014588", "title": "Marktrock", "text": "Marktrock\n\nMarktrock is a music festival held each year around 15 August, in the heart of the university town of Leuven, Belgium. There is also a smaller Marktrock festival in Poperinge which is held the last Saturday of August.\n\nThe name Marktrock comes from the Dutch word , meaning market and it is held on 2 squares (4 until 24th edition) in the historical city center of Leuven: \"Oude Markt\" and \"Ladeuzeplein\". Until the 24th edition (2006) the three-day festival always had 15 August Assumption Day as its last day.\n\nIn 2004, the 22nd edition of the Marktrock festival was held in Leuven and it has grown into one of Europe's biggest urban music festivals with over 350,000 visitors each year.\n\nOn 5 February 2007 the Marktrock vzw organization announced the end of the festival. Main reasons were the raising price of quality artists and groups, the low capacity of the main stage on the \"Oude Markt\", the new and expensive legal regulations each year, the financial risk of open-air festivals and the organization refused to raise entry tickets for the \"Oude Markt\" stage again. The rain during the 2006 edition certainly didn't help either. Over the 24 years history of the original MarktRock more than 1400 artists performed at Marktrock, more than 5 million people visited the festival and it launched several Belgian artists.\n\nIn March 2007 Marktrock came under new management, which revived the festival and redesigned the 2007 edition. The free stages disappeared, replaced by two paying stages: the Oude Markt focused on local and upcoming bands, while the larger Ladeuzeplein featured established and international artists. This new setup met with significant criticism and attendance was low.\n\nFor the 2008 edition, the festival was once again revamped, bringing back the various free stages throughout the city, leaving only the Oude Markt with an entry fee. The festival still struggled to draw the crowds it used to draw.\n\nThe 2009 festival changed its approach once more, ditching both the entry fee and international acts. It secured additional funding from the city of Leuven on the condition that the festival would focus on local talent. Despite a line-up of mostly obscure bands, this edition drew an estimated 95,000 visitors, causing minor organisational problems as visitors were turned back from venues that were filled to capacity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21535089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21535089", "title": "Memorable Order of Tin Hats", "text": "Memorable Order of Tin Hats\n\nThe Memorable Order of Tin Hats (M.O.T.H.) was founded in 1927 by Charles Evenden as a brotherhood of South African former front-line soldiers. The ideal is to help fellow comrades in need, either financially or physically; and to remember all servicemen who have answered the \"Sunset Call\", both in war and peace time.\n\nAccording to the \"Dictionary of South African Biography\", one night in 1927 after he and the editor of \"The Natal Mercury\", RJ Kingston Russell, had seen a war film, Charles Evenden was persuaded to draw a cartoon on 'remembrance'. According to the Dictionary, \"The cartoon showed a tin helmet surmounted by a burning candle. Around the flames of the candle were six words – \"True Comradeship\" – \"Mutual Help\" – \"Sound Memory\"\".\n\nHowever, the official M.O.T.H. website carries a cartoon captioned \"Forgetfulness\" and this led to the founding of the Order. This is confirmed by the \"Eastern Province Herald\" which describes the cartoon as follows: \"a bullet- and shrapnel-riddled Allied helmet awash in the ocean. In the background a steamship passes over the horizon, leaving the forgotten, ghostly form of a veteran forlornly wading through the water.\"\n\n\"The concepts of \"True Comradeship\", \"Mutual Help\" and \"Sound Memory\" were to become the inspiration of a remarkable organisation of ex-front line soldiers, of all ranks, known as M.O.T.H. Evenden, as the founder of the movement and its guiding inspiration was given the title of \"Moth O\" – a position he held until his death.\"\n\nThe membership of the M.O.T.H. movement, under Evenden's vigorous direction and leadership, grew into thousands. Men and women of two world wars, of the Second Anglo Boer War (1899–1902) and even those of former enemy forces streamed into its ranks. All who were prepared to keep alive the memories of comradeship and self-sacrifice – the finer virtues that war brings forth – were welcomed and made at home in shell holes as the meeting premises are called with colourful and meaningful names of war-time memories and occasions. M.O.T.H. shell holes have been opened in Malawi, Namibia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Membership was extended to those who had participated in the South African Border War.\n\nThe shrine, located in Durban, is modelled on a Norman design from a photograph given to Evenden by Admiral Evans-of-the-Broke.\n\nIn 1948 Evenden opened Mount Memory, a monument to the missing and dead of the Second World War, in the foothills of the Drakensberg mountains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53511856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53511856", "title": "Mendelssohn on Mull Festival", "text": "Mendelssohn on Mull Festival\n\nThe Mendelssohn on Mull Festival is an annual chamber music festival held at various venues on the Isles of Mull and Iona and the surrounding area, usually during the first week in July. In 2019, the festival dates will move to 1–7 September.\n\nThe festival takes its name from a visit by the composer Felix Mendelssohn to Scotland in 1829. Although only twenty years old, Mendelssohn was already an established composer and conductor. The natural beauty of Scotland and its rich history of fact and fable delighted the young composer and inspired his Symphony No. 3, \"Scottish\".\n\nMendelssohn stayed in Tobermory on Mull en route to Staffa where he visited Fingal's Cave. The concert overture known both as \"The Hebrides\" and as \"Fingal's Cave\" was composed shortly after his visit, and was originally entitled 'The Lonely Island'. Mendelssohn sent a postcard to his family with the opening phrase of the overture written on it. In a note to his sister, Fanny Mendelssohn he said: \"In order to make you understand how extraordinarily the Hebrides affected me, I send you the following, which came into my head there.\"\n\nThe festival that now bears his name was conceived as a musical pilgrimage in commemoration of Mendelssohn's visit.\n\nThe festival was founded in 1988 by the violinist Leonard Friedman, as a week of music-making, concentrating on string chamber music, where the participants were a blend of established professionals and students, at which audiences were welcome at no cost.\n\nFollowing Friedman's death in 1994, the festival has maintained this pattern with artistic direction being provided by Levon Chilingirian (2003–2016), and the Doric String Quartet (2018 to present).\n\nThe festival is administered by a trust which organises the events and pays the expenses of the participants and professionals. Since 2016 the festival has been administered by Sound Waves SCIO.\n\n"}
{"id": "12070160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12070160", "title": "Murder of Jennifer Ann Crecente", "text": "Murder of Jennifer Ann Crecente\n\nJennifer Ann Crecente (September 9, 1987 – February 15, 2006), a victim of teen dating violence, was an 18-year-old high school student who was shot and killed in southwest Austin, Texas by Justin Crabbe, an ex-boyfriend, on February 15, 2006. Crecente's murder was the first in Austin in 2006. In response to her murder, two charitable organizations have been formed, a memorial grant created in her name, and legislation passed in Texas to prevent teen dating violence.\n\nJennifer Ann Crecente was born in 1987 in Las Cruces. Her family moved to Austin, where she attended local schools, including high school. Among her classmates at Bowie High School in Austin was Justin Crabbe, until he dropped out of school in the tenth grade.\n\nJennifer was a camp counselor at SciTrek in Atlanta and hospital volunteer in Austin. Her grandmother was a psychologist and it was a field Jennifer was considering for study.\n\nShe and Crabbe dated for a period but she had ended their relationship. Crecente was killed a few months prior to graduation.\n\nJennifer Ann Crecente's body was found at night on February 16, 2006 in a wooded area in Austin. Justin Crabbe, her ex-boyfriend, was arrested on February 18, 2006 on a charge of first-degree murder. Crabbe told police that he and a man named Richard were playing with a gun. Jennifer was about 20 to 30 feet away. The gun fired, and Jennifer fell to the ground. Crabbe did not check on Crecente to see how badly she was injured before fleeing the scene. A videotape showed Crabbe with another man purchasing ammunition at a sporting goods store. Crabbe was on parole from a prior felony conviction and could not legally purchase ammunition himself.\n\nCrabbe pleaded \"not guilty\" on September 22, 2006. He was in jail and not eligible for bail. He faced a maximum sentence of life in prison. On March 6, 2007, Crabbe's court-appointed lawyers requested to have his videotaped confession thrown out. On March 22, 2007, Judge Charles \"Charlie\" Baird denied the defense's request to throw out the videotaped confession. Judge Baird set the trial date for July 23, 2007. On July 19, 2007, it was announced that there would be no trial for Crabbe but a court appearance has been scheduled for July 27, 2007. The court appearance was cancelled without explanation.\n\nOn July 31, 2007, it was announced that Crabbe had agreed to a guilty plea and that a hearing was scheduled for August 1, 2007. The terms were not released. On August 1, 2007, Crabbe pleaded guilty to murder as part of a plea agreement. He was sentenced to 35 years in prison. Additionally, he testified before a grand jury. Crabbe's testimony resulted in a sealed indictment for Ricardo Roman. Roman was indicted on July 17, 2007 and arrested on July 31, 2007 in South Texas. On February 15, 2008, the Travis County District Attorney's office dismissed the indictment against Roman.\n\nBoth parents have founded organizations in Jennifer's honor. Organizational goals for the two organizations sometimes converge but work as individual entities:\n\nJennifer Ann's Group, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, was created by Jennifer's father Drew in February 2006 in Crecente's memory to prevent teen dating violence. The stated purpose of the organization is to \"keep Jennifer Crecente's memory alive through education and good works.\" The organization distributes educational materials to schools and organizations across the US for free and has speakers for national and regional events to talk about teen dating violence. It is also the creator of the Life.Love. Game Design Challenge, an annual video game design contest intended to educate teens and preteens about teen dating violence through online video games.\n\nJennifer's Hope was founded in August 2006 by Jennifer's mother, Elizabeth Crecente. She speaks to teens and professionals, and has had several national appearances, multiple statewide appearances, and is involved in the Austin/Travis county community drives to prevent teen dating violence and promote healthy relationships.\n\nThe Texas Psychological Foundation created The Jennifer Ann Crecente Memorial Grant in Crecente's memory. The annual grant pays $5,000 to a graduate student studying violence against women. Crecente's grandmother, Dr. Elizabeth Richeson, is a psychologist, and Crecente was considering a career in psychology.\n\nOn February 5, 2007, the Texas Legislature's State Representative Dawnna Dukes entered a bill to require school districts in Texas to create policies regarding Teen Dating Violence. This bill was created in memory of Jennifer Ann Crecente and Ortralla Mosley. Jennifer Ann's Group provided testimony on February 8, 2007 to the legislature in support of this bill. Governor Rick Perry signed the bill into law on May 18, 2007, and it immediately went into effect. Every school district in the state of Texas has to have a formal policy regarding Teen Dating Violence as a result of this legislation.\n\nOn February 15, 2007, on the one-year anniversary of Crecente's murder, Senator Eliot Shapleigh entered a bill to grant posthumous diplomas to students who died during their Senior year of high school. The bill is named \"Jennifer's Law\". On May 28, 2007 the bill was signed in the Senate and passed to Governor Rick Perry for signing. The bill was signed by the Governor on June 15, 2007 and went into effect immediately. \"Jennifer's Law\" allows the family of any Texas student who died during their Senior year of high school to request a posthumous diploma.\n\nThe Colquitt County Arts Center Theatre dedicated the 2007 production of \"Oliver!\" to Jennifer Ann Crecente. In 1998 the Arts Center had performed \"Oliver!\", and Jennifer and her father had both appeared in the production. The 2007 production is dedicated to Crecente because of her performance; in addition, the show includes a theme of dating violence.\n"}
{"id": "3972777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3972777", "title": "NIN (magazine)", "text": "NIN (magazine)\n\nNIN () is a weekly newsmagazine published in Belgrade, Serbia. Its name is an acronym for Nedeljne informativne novine (Недељне информативне новине) which roughly translates into \"Weekly Informational Newspaper\".\n\nThough a current events magazine in its essence, \"NIN\" also earned an esteemed reputation due to a long tradition of opening its pages to the best and the brightest within Serbian, and previously Yugoslav society, whether in arts, sciences, or even sports. This reputation has recently somewhat been tarnished as the magazine was forced into commercial competition with numerous political periodicals that sprung up in Serbia after the collapse of socialism. Since then, \"NIN\" has adopted a slightly more populist tone, though it is still highly regarded.\n\n, the magazine had 35 employees.\n\nIn July 2008, the magazine celebrated the release of its 3000th issue. On March 13, 2009 it was announced that majority stake in the magazine was bought by Swiss media company Ringier AG.\n\n\"NIN\" was originally started in 1935. During the late 1980s Slobodan Milošević and his followers converted major publications, including \"NIN\", into media outlets of Serbian nationalism.\n\nIn 2007 \"NIN\" was preparing for privatization. At that time the magazine's ownership structure was: 87% publicly owned (društveni kapital), 10% owned by Politika AD, and 3% owned by the employees. A 60.9% stake (70% of the public stake) in the magazine was to be auctioned off on September 29, 2007 with starting price set at RSD13.2 million (~ €170,000). However, the auction as the method of privatization for the magazine was scrapped by the Serbian Privatization Agency due to employee demands and a new tender was set for sometime during spring 2008.\n\nThe tender was actually opened on October 30, 2008 and it closed on December 19, 2008. On December 25, 2008, it was reported that companies Ringier AG and Novosti AD submitted competing offers for 61.48% stake in \"NIN\" (70% of the magazine's public stake, which is in turn 87% of the total stake).\n\nIn mid March 2009, it was announced that Ringier AG bought the majority stake in \"NIN\" for RSD57.455 million (~ €810,000). Soon afterward the magazine's headquarters moved from Cetinjska Street to Kraljice Marije Street at the same location where \"Blic\" daily (Ringier's other major asset in Serbia) has its headquarters. Sometime in April 2009, longtime editor-in-chief Slobodan Reljić was let go and replaced with Srđan Radulović, up to that point an editor at \"Blic\" daily. The change was done quietly without any press releases.\n\nIn September 2009, an open letter written by the magazine's longtime journalists to Ringier AG chairman Michael Ringier surfaced in which they are criticizing some of the moves and changes since Ringier took over.\n\nIn January every year, \"NIN\"s special jury vote on what they feel was the best novel released during the previous year and award it with \"Ninova nagrada\" (Нинова награда, \"the NIN Prize\"), which has over the years become one of the highest honours for contemporary Serbian authors. The award is also very relevant commercially as its recipients usually go on to become bestsellers.\n\nThe list of individuals who performed editor-in-chief duties at \"NIN\".\n\nColumnists for the magazine include the \"king of sugar\" businessman Miodrag Kostić.\n\n"}
{"id": "10975302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10975302", "title": "National Black Theatre Festival", "text": "National Black Theatre Festival\n\nThe National Black Theatre Festival (NBTF) was founded in 1989 by Larry Leon Hamlin in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Serving as its executive director, Hamlin’s goal in creating the Festival was \"to unite black theatre companies in America to ensure the survival of the genre into the next millennium\". Held biennially since 1989 for six days, the NBTF showcases the best in African-American theater.\n\nAs he was doing research for a magazine article in the late 1980s, Hamlin discovered a disconnect between the number of black theatre companies at that time. He concluded that a festival could serve as a method to bring these companies together, and he contacted renowned author and poet Maya Angelou for support. Together, they raised $500,000 in grants and contributions to finance the festival's operating costs.\n\nThe first Festival attracted 10,000 people and offered 30 different performances by 17 of America’s best professional black theatre companies. Its theme was \"An International Celebration and Reunion of Spirit\". Angelou served as the Festival's first chairperson, and other prominent African-American performers lent their professional and financial support. It was covered by both the national and international media with wide acclaim.\n\nThe NBTF has been successful, but not without difficulties. In 2001, the Festival faced serious financial troubles that threatened its existence. Several funding sources reduced support and the budget for the Festival was left with a $300,000 deficit. In spite of this setback, Hamlin did not cancel the festival and was able to raise enough money to compensate the loss. He believed that African-American theatre was important and was able to make his dream a success.\n\nThe NBTF brings nearly 60,000 people to Winston-Salem. In addition to over 100 theatrical performances, highlights of the Festival are the Opening Night Gala, the Readers' Theatre of New Works, the Youth/Celebrity Project, International Colloquia, the International Vendor's Market, a poetry slam, and various workshops and seminars. More than 50 celebrities can be expected to attend the Festival during its run.\n\nThe 2007 festival was the first without the direct guidance of Hamlin, who died on June 6, 2007; organizers continued preparations though his presence was missed.\n\nThe 2009 NBTF was held August 3–8, 2009, with celebrity co-chairs Ted Lange and Wendy Raquel Robinson.\n\nThe 2011 NBTF was held August 1–6, 2011, with celebrity co-chairs Lamman Rucker and T'Keyah Crystal Keymáh.\n\nThe 2013 NBTF was held July 29-August 3, 2013, with celebrity co-chairs Tonya Pinkins and Dorien Wilson\n\nThe 2015 NBTF was held August 3-8, 2015, with celebrity co-chairs Debbi Morgan and Darnell Williams.\n\nThe 2017 NBTF will be held July 31-August 5, 2017, with celebrity co-chairs Anna Maria Horsford and Obba Babatundé.\n\n"}
{"id": "7413714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7413714", "title": "Nicosia Old General Hospital", "text": "Nicosia Old General Hospital\n\nNicosia Old General Hospital was the chief hospital of Nicosia, Cyprus from 1936 to 2006. In 2006, its patients were transferred to the Nicosia New General Hospital, and it was demolished in 2010 amidst some controversy over whether it should have been preserved.\n\nThe decision for erecting a purpose built general hospital in Nicosia was taken during the British colonial administration of Cyprus in 1936. It was inaugurated on 14 April 1939 by the then British governor Richard Palmer. This coincided with the breakout of World War II and many British and Cypriot soldiers were transported there, away from the front line, for recovery. Cyprus escaped the fighting, apart from the occasional German bombing raid.\n\nThe building, designed by Polyvios Michaelides was one of the first structures in Cyprus to import the Bauhaus style of architecture from Germany and featured in the French journal \"L’Architecture d’aujourd’hui\".\n\nThe hospital served as a tertiary referral centre for most disciplines. Over time and with scientific and medical advances, it became apparent that the hospital premises were not fit for purpose. A Nicosia New General Hospital was constructed in the suburb of Latsia and was delivered in 2006. The last remaining patients were transferred over and the old hospital closed its emergency department on 8 October 2006, after 67 years of operation having treated millions of patients. It continues to run outpatients clinics and a psychiatric ward.\n\nThe fate of the old building has recently been surrounded by controversy. It lies in the centre of Nicosia on prime real estate and surrounded by dense eucalyptus woodland. The Cyprus Green Party has been campaigning for the building’s preservation, as it is considered as one of the few remaining examples of colonial architecture. Plans to demolish it and to erect a new Cyprus Museum have been criticized by the Cyprus Architects Association, that has also championed its preservation.\nThe building was finally demolished and the contractor Philippos Kameris confirmed on 15 June 2010 that the work was completed.\n"}
{"id": "27166760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27166760", "title": "Norrköping Exhibition of Art and Industry", "text": "Norrköping Exhibition of Art and Industry\n\nNorrköping Exhibition of Art and Industry () was an exhibition in Norrköping, Sweden in 1906.\n\nAt the initiative of the local industrial association \"Norrköpings Fabriksförening och Handtverksförening\" it was decided an art and industrial exhibition should be held in Norrköping between June1September15, 1906. The exhibition was opened by the Crown Prince Gustaf and was mostly held at the area south of the Sylten neighbourhood. The architect Carl Bergsten designed the exhibition's two main buildings the \"Industrihallen\" (industrial hall) that was with places for 630 exhibitiors, and the \"Konsthallen\" (art exhibition hall). He also designed the \"Jaktpaviljongen\" (hunting pavilion). Werner Northun designed the \"Maskinhallen\" (engines hall) at a total of , as well as the main restaurant seating 400 people and the \"Thaliatemplet\" theatre (500 folding chairs).\n\nThe cultural parts of the 1906 exhibition attracted huge attention when over 900 pieces of art were shown in 15 different rooms. Artists included Anna Ancher, Michael Ancher, Ivar Arosenius, Oscar Björk, John Bauer, Prince Eugen, Peder Severin Krøyer, Carl Larsson, Birger Palme, Georg Pauli, Hanna Pauli, Georg von Rosen, David Wallin, Nabot Törnros and Anders Zorn.\n\nAt the main restaurant Moa Martinson, who later became an author, worked as a pantry chef. Moa's Stairs with 80 steps are still visible. In her book \"Kungens rosor\" (\"The King's Roses\") Martinson tells about her work at the restaurant.\n"}
{"id": "32877713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32877713", "title": "Obtaining a money transfer by deception", "text": "Obtaining a money transfer by deception\n\nObtaining a money transfer by deception was formerly a statutory offence in England and Wales and Northern Ireland.\n\nThis offence was created by section 15A of the Theft Act 1968. Section 15B made supplementary provision. Both of those sections were inserted by section 1(1) of the Theft (Amendment) Act 1996.\n\nSection 15A was repealed on 15 January 2007 by sections 14(1) and (3) and 15(1) of, and paragraph 1(a)(ii) of Schedule 1 to, and Schedule 3 to, the Fraud Act 2006, subject to transitional provisions and savings in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to that Act.\n\nSection 15B was repealed on the same date by sections 14(1) and (3) and 15(1) of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to, and Schedule 3 to, the Fraud Act 2006.\n\nThe purpose of this offence was to fill the lacuna in the law identified by the decision in \"R v Preddy and Slade, R v Dhillon\". It implemented recommendations of the Law Commission.\n\nThis offence was created by section 15A of the Theft Act (Northern Ireland) 1969. Section 15B made supplementary provision. Both of those sections were inserted by article 3(1) of the Theft (Amendment) (Northern Ireland) Order 1997 (S.I. 1997/277 (N.I. 3)).\n\nSection 15A was repealed on 15 January 2007 by sections 14 and 15(1) and (4) of, and paragraph 1(c)(ii) of Schedule 1 to, and Schedule 3 to, the Fraud Act 2006, subject to transitional provisions and savings in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to that Act.\n\nSection 15B was repealed on the same date by sections 14(1) and (3) and 15(1) and (4) of, and paragraph 9 of Schedule 1 to, and Schedule 3 to, the Fraud Act 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "32113665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32113665", "title": "Old Jewish Cemetery, Wrocław", "text": "Old Jewish Cemetery, Wrocław\n\nThe Old Jewish Cemetery in Wrocław is located in the southeast part of Wrocław (formerly known as Breslau), Poland, currently along Ślężna street. The first burial took place on 17 November 1856 which back then was a village of Gabitz. The current shape of the cemetery evolved mostly during the 19th century, during the German period of the city. The cemetery area was expanded twice. In 1943 the burial ceremonies were abandoned and the necropoly was leased for five years to a gardening center. During World War II, the cemetery became a fierce battleground, the marks of which are still visible on many tombstones. After 1945 it slowly turned into ruins. It was put on the list of the city's monuments in 1975.\n\nMost of the cemetery objects were built in second half of the 19th century. They imitate various architectural styles including Ancient, the Middle Ages, Renaissance, Baroque. Great example of Ancient architecture are numerous columns located throughout the cemetery that are symbols of life and eternity. Columns imitating broken trees reflect the tragedy of fragile life and death. Tombstones are signed by bilingual inscriptions, most commonly German and Jewish.\n\nMost common symbols of Jewish culture which can be seen on tombstones are:\n\n\nOn July 30, 2010, the Jewish cemetery in Wrocław was desecrated with swastikas drawings and vulgar graffiti. In addition, some of the gravestones were broken.\n"}
{"id": "2294192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294192", "title": "OpenSym", "text": "OpenSym\n\nOpenSym is a shorthand for International Symposium on Open Collaboration, formerly International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration, also formerly WikiSym or the \"Wiki Symposium\", a conference dedicated to wiki research and practice. In 2014, the name of the conference was changed from WikiSym to OpenSym to reflect a broadening of scope from wiki and Wikipedia research and practice to open collaboration research, including wikis and Wikipedia research, but also free/libre/open source, open data, etc. research. Its proceedings are published in the ACM Digital Library.\n\nWikiSym 2005 was co-located with ACM OOPSLA 2005, held in San Diego, California, US, 14–16 October 2005. Speakers included Ward Cunningham, Jimmy Wales, Ross Mayfield and Sunir Shah. Sponsors of the event included Google. Conference chair was Dirk Riehle.\nWikiSym 2006 was co-located with ACM Hypertext 2006 from 21–23 August 2006 in Odense, Denmark. Invited speakers included Angela Beesley (\"How and Why Wikipedia Works\"), Doug Engelbart and Eugene Eric Kim (\"The Augmented Wiki\"), Mark Bernstein (\"Intimate Information: organic hypertext structure and incremental formalization for everyone's everyday tasks\"), and Ward Cunningham (\"Design Principles of Wiki: How can so little do so much?\"). Conference chair was Dirk Riehle and program chair was James Noble.\nWikiSym 2007 was co-located with OOPSLA 2007, an ACM conference, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on 21–23 October 2007. Invited speakers were Jonathan Grudin and Ward Cunningham. Conference chair was Alain Désilets and program chair was Robert Biddle.\nWikiSym 2008 was held in Porto, Portugal, in 8–10 September 2008, at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto and supported (\"in-cooperation agreement\") by the ACM. Keynotes were given by George Landow, Professor of Art and English at Brown University and Stewart Nickolas, IBM Emerging Technologies while Dan Ingalls, Sun Microsystems Laboratories gave an invited talk. The symposium chair was Ademar Aguiar and the program chair was Mark Bernstein.\nWikiSym 2009 was held in Orlando, FL, on 25–27 October 2009 at the Disney Convention Center. Keynotes were given by Fernanda Viegas and Martin Wattenberg as well as by Brion Vibber. The symposium chair was Dirk Riehle of University of Erlangen and the program chair was Amy Bruckman of Georgia Tech.\nWikiSym 2010 was held in Gdańsk, Poland on 7–9 July 2010, co-located with Wikimania. Keynote speakers were Cliff Lampe and Andrew Lih. The symposium chair was Phoebe Ayers and the program chair was J. Felipe Ortega. An open access version of the proceedings is available, in addition to the ACM proceedings.\nWikiSym 2011 was held in Mountain View on 3–5 October 2011. Keynote speakers were Cathy Casserly, CEO of Creative Commons, Jeff Heer, assistant professor from Stanford University, and Ed Chi of Google. The symposium chair was J. Felipe Ortega and the program chair was Andrea Forte.\nWikiSym 2012 was held in Linz, Austria on 27–29 August 2012.\nSetting a definition of \"open collaboration\", WikiSym + OpenSym 2013 was held in Hong Kong on 5–7 Aug 2013. The symposium general co-chair includes Ademar Aguiar and Dirk Riehle.\nThe conference in Berlin from 27–29 August featured \"multiple traditional research tracks and a community program geared towards industry and practitioner interests\".\nOpenSym 2015, the 11th International Symposium on Open Collaboration, was held in San Francisco on August 19–21, 2015. Research submissions revolved around IT-driven open innovation, open data, free/libre/open source software etc. Academic keynotes were taken by Robert J. Glushko of UC Berkeley and Anthony I. Wasserman of CMU (Silicon Valley). Industry (research) keynotes were taken by Richard P. Gabriel of IBM and Peter Norvig of Google. \n\nOpenSym 2016, the 12th International Symposium on Open Collaboration, took place in Berlin, Germany on August 17–19, 2016. Anthony I. (Tony) Wasserman served as general chair. Keynote speakers were Adam Blum, Luis Falcón Martín, Leslie Hawthorn, Bradley M. Kuhn, and Ina Schieferdecker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "811536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=811536", "title": "Paul Neumann (Attorney General)", "text": "Paul Neumann (Attorney General)\n\nPaul Neumann (1839–July 2, 1901) was a lawyer, politician, and diplomat in California and the Kingdom of Hawaii.\n\nBorn in Prussia, Neumann became a lawyer in California around 1864 and served three terms as a state senator of California.\nHe worked for fellow-German American Claus Spreckels (1828–1908), who maintained a monopoly of the refining of sugar from Hawaii in California.\nNeuman met Hawaiian royalty when they would come to California to be entertained by Spreckels. \nNeumann was the Republican Party of California's candidate for the United States House of Representatives in November 1882 for the San Francisco district.\nHowever, he was denounced by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" as being a \"sugar coated candidate\", being used by Spreckels to advance his own interests, and was defeated in the election. In 1883, Neumann came to the Hawaiian Islands to serve as legal counsel for Spreckels who was now the publisher of the \"Honolulu Advertiser\" newspaper, first in the fall for a short visit.\nHe was one of the first Jewish leaders in the Hawaiian Islands, although in later years he led a more secular life and did not raise his children in the Jewish faith.\n\nBeing from Europe, Neumann was comfortable around a monarchy, and made friends with the other Europeans in the islands.\nKing David Kalākaua and other members of the government depended on loans from Spreckels to support their lifestyles.\nWithin days of returning, Neumann was admitted to the bar and appointed as attorney general of the Kingdom of Hawaii, and a member of Kalākaua's Privy Council on December 14, 1883.\nWalter M. Gibson had been acting as attorney general, even though he had no legal training. The cabinet stayed intact until June 30, 1886, when another combination (except Gibson) was brought in, probably at the suggestion of Spreckels.\nNeumann was sometimes attacked by the conservative press for his \"bohemianism\", including playing Poker with the king, which the missionaries thought was sinful. He had been president of the Bohemian Club in San Francisco.\nCharles T. Gulick, although related to missionaries, also became a member of the Kalākaua cabinet as Minister of the Interior.\n\nIn 1884 Neumann was appointed to the House of Nobles in the kingdom legislature, and the board of health. \nHe served as envoy to Mexico in 1884, and investigated forming a consular office in San Francisco in 1885. Under the new 1887 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii, the House of Nobles became an elected office, so he lost his seat, until winning the election of 1892 for one more session.\n\nQueen Liliuokalani appointed him attorney general again on August 29, but he resigned the next day after a motion of no confidence in the legislature, when his scheme for a state lottery was heavily opposed in the legislature. On September 12 he was appointed again and served to November 1, 1892.\nNeumann became the private attorney of the queen after the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii in 1893. He was sent to Washington, DC to protest the overthrow and plead for the restoration of the monarchy. After an editorial in the \"Advertiser\" offended him, Neumann (who had a wooden leg) attacked new editor Henry Northrop Castle (son of Samuel Northrup Castle) with his cane in December 1893.\nHe defended Liliuokalani and other prisoners in a military tribunal following the failed 1895 rebellion against the Republic of Hawaii, where she was convicted of misprision of treason. He advised Liliuokalani to issue a formal abdication, which she did, and the revolutionaries were pardoned.\nWhen a circuit judge position opened up, he was passed over for the much younger William Stanley.\n\nAfter the islands were annexed to the United States in 1898, he became more resigned to the situation, and applied to be the first attorney from Hawaii to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States. He did think the Crown Lands of Hawaii had been seized illegally, a case that is still controversial.\n\nAlthough he had no government position, he was accepted in society enough to become toastmaster of the local Masonic Lodge, and president of the Hawaii Bar Association. \nHe represented many of the Chinese victims of the Great Honolulu Chinatown Fire of 1900.\nHe died July 2, 1901.\nAt his funeral he was called \"one of the most brilliant men who ever set foot on Hawaiian soil\". He was buried in Oahu Cemetery.\n\nHis daughter Eva (1871–1921) married Alfred Fowler (1860–1933) and became a friend of Ezra Pound.\nSon Edouard Neumann graduated from the United States Naval Academy (nominated by California congressman Julius Kahn), but was killed in a fire during target practice on the on April 13, 1904. Son Paul Neumann Jr. studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh and lived in London.\nNeumann's wife Elisa also moved to London, as did daughter Lily Neumann who married Robert MacDonald Bird.\nOther daughters Anita A. Neumann married Herman T. Focke in Honolulu in 1895, and Inez Sophie Neumann married William F. C. Hasson in 1891 who moved to Annapolis, Maryland.\nHis wife Elisa went to Acapulco, Mexico in 1908 to settle the estate of her mother and stepfather who had both died. On a steamer to San Francisco she died after jumping overboard.\n\n"}
{"id": "24067532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24067532", "title": "Phisoderm", "text": "Phisoderm\n\nPhisoderm is a skin detergent which assists persons who are allergic to soap and Phisohex, a detergent and sudsless cleanser which prevents the spread of infections.\nIn the 1950s both Phisoderm and Phisohex were manufactured by Winthrop Laboratories. Earlier the product was made by Fairchild Brothers & Foster. Phisoderm was developed by Dr. B. Thurber Guild (1886 \"-\" 1958), a physician and pharmaceutical manufacturer. Guild practiced medicine in Boston, Massachusetts and was a specialist in allergies. The brand is currently owned by Mentholatum.\n\nBoth Phisoderm and Phisohex were removed by drugstores and retail outlet stores when the Food and Drug Administration halted the production and distribution of products containing more than 1% of hexachlorophene, in September 1972. \n\nPhisoderm continued to be produced by Winthrop Laboratories, a division of Sterling Drug, in 1980. An over-the-counter drug, its advertising was carried out by Warren Muller Dulubowsky. By April 1989 Sterling Drug was owned by Eastman Kodak. Three Sterling brands, Haley's M-O, Philips' Milk of Magnesia, and Phisoderm, were being advertised by N.W. Ayer. In 1991 the Phisoderm account was picked up by Ammirati & Puris of New York City. When Bayer bought Sterling in 1994, Chattem acquired the Phisoderm brand by that time. In 2005, it was sold to The Mentholatum Company.\n"}
{"id": "42953182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42953182", "title": "Piraeus Municipal Theatre", "text": "Piraeus Municipal Theatre\n\nThe Piraeus Municipal Theatre is a neoclassical building built on plans by architect Ioannis Lazarimos and was opened on 9 April 1895.\n\nThe theatre has a 600-seat capacity and is located in the centremost place of the city of Piraeus.\n\n"}
{"id": "19406783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19406783", "title": "Polly (brig)", "text": "Polly (brig)\n\nPolly was an American brig that was swamped during a gale in late 1811, and spent the next six months adrift in the Atlantic Ocean. The saga of \"Polly\" was mentioned by Edgar Allan Poe in his novel \"The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket\".\n\n\"Polly\" was a 131-ton brig constructed at Pembroke, Massachusetts in 1791, probably by shipbuilders Alden Briggs, Calvin Turner and Ichabod Thomas, Jr. During her service life, the ship was home ported in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nOn December 12, 1811, \"Polly\" departed Boston with a cargo of lumber and provisions (including salted meat) bound for the Virgin Islands. The ship was commanded by Captain Casneau, and carried eight others: the mate, four seamen, an Indian cook, a passenger named Mr. Hunt, and a 12-year-old African-American slave or servant girl belonging to Hunt.\n\nThree days out, on December 15, the \"Polly\" was caught in a severe gale. The storm capsized the ship and the masts were either carried away by the storm, or cut away by the crew. Relieved of the topweight, \"Polly\" rolled back onto an even keel. The ship was completely filled with water, but the cargo of lumber kept the ship afloat. However, two people, one of whom was Hunt, were lost during the storm, and the girl was badly injured.\n\nThe survivors began to salvage the wreck for usable items. Quantities of salted pork were recovered, and the survivors ate that raw until the cook managed to start a fire twelve days after the wreck, by using two sticks rubbed together. The supplies of salted pork ran out after forty days, and the survivors were forced to eat barnacles scraped off the hull, and the occasional shark and fish. The barnacles were exhausted by mid-April, but the survivors managed to catch additional fish. Stores of fresh water ran out after eighteen days, and water was subsequently obtained from a makeshift still made out of a tea kettle, a metal pot, and a pistol. Seawater was boiled in the pot, and condensation was captured in the tea kettle.\n\nOver the next 191 days, \"Polly\" drifted across the Atlantic. The hulk was passed by over a dozen ships, but none offered assistance. Henry Howes, the first mate, was the first of the survivors to die, either 43 or 50 days after the wreck. Three other crewmen followed suit. Some references indicate the cook died at this time, while others indicate the cook survived the ordeal. By the 65th day, only two survivors remained.\n\nOn June 19, 1812, Captain Casneau and either the cook or a crewmember named Samuel Badger, were rescued by Captain Featherstone of the British ship \"Fame\", en route to London from Rio de Janeiro. The crew were picked up 600 leagues (3,330 kilometers) west of Marrakesh, having drifted over two thousand miles across the Atlantic. On July 9, the survivors were transferred to the brig \"Dromero\" and taken back to the United States.\n\nThe story of the \"Polly\" is mentioned in an in-character footnote in Chapter 13 of Edgar Allan Poe's \"The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket\". Poe's narrator, Arthur Pym, refers to the ordeal as similar to the one he experiences in the course of the narrative. Poe's source for the material may have been R. Thomas' \"Remarkable Events and Remarkable Shipwrecks\", published in 1836.\n"}
{"id": "10359369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10359369", "title": "Pontoffel Pock, Where Are You?", "text": "Pontoffel Pock, Where Are You?\n\nPontoffel Pock, Where Are You? (titled Pontoffel Pock & His Magic Piano for the sing-a-long videocasette release) is an animated musical television special written by Dr. Seuss, directed by Gerard Baldwin, produced by DePatie–Freleng Enterprises, completed in 1979 and first aired on ABC on May 2, 1980. This was one of the final cartoons done at DePatie–Freleng as the studio would be sold to Marvel Comics and become Marvel Productions in 1981. The songs are by Joe Raposo.\n\nPontoffel Pock confuses the \"Pullum\" and \"Pushum\" controls for a device that places pickles into jars, wreaking havoc at the dill pickle factory and prompting the owner to deny him of work. Now having been denied of a job, Pontoffel returns alone to his dilapidated house and wishes that he could \"get away from it all\". He is immediately visited by McGillicuddy, a representative of the \"Amalgamated Do-Gooding Fairies\" who says: \"Pontoffel Pock, your wish has been heard, and your wish has been granted.\" McGillicuddy and his fairy associates, Humboldt and Higby (and later on, Hoikendorf), give him a magical flying piano that takes him anywhere in the world. To do so, Pontoffel Pock plays these six very simple notes (C, C, C, D, D#, E) and then chooses a destination by pressing one of many differently-colored buttons, which fly him to his destination. The first place he goes to is Groogen (based on Switzerland).\n\nPontoffel recklessly flies through Groogen, scaring the locals (\"Groogenites\") out of their wits and causing a flugelhorn to get damaged. In a measure of self-defense, he is attacked by their \"Goomy Gun\", which fires multi-colored paint, that turns his piano yellow and causes its motor to lose power. He plummets downward, but at the last second Pontoffel \"twitches the Homing Pigeon Switch\" that sends him and the piano home. When he gets home, McGillicuddy at first attempts to take the piano back for Pontoffel's failure, calling him a \"show-off\" and a \"smart-aleck\", but eventually relents and gives Pontoffel a second chance.\n\nThe piano's next destination is Casbahmopolis (based on The Middle East), where Pontoffel falls in love with a girl named Neefa Feefa, a famous \"eyeball dancer\" who dislikes her job of dancing for the King and, like Pontoffel, wants to \"get away from it all\". He infiltrates the King's palace to rescue her and is pursued and surrounded by the palace guards, one of whom breaks the Homing Pigeon Switch such that Pontoffel cannot take Neefa Feefa home with him. When he decides to travel somewhere else, he loses control of the piano and Neefa Feefa slips off into the guards' clutches. Having lost his sense of direction, Pontoffel starts pushing random buttons, sending him to several different places (which are based on many \"real\" places such as the North Pole, the Congo region, Spain, Waikiki, Africa, Japan, and others, including Seuss's birthplace of Springfield, Massachusetts) in the hope of returning to her.\n\nMeanwhile, McGillicuddy gets worried, having not heard from Pontoffel in a long time, so he enlists the help of all of his fairy associates to fly all over the world, looking for him by song: \"Pontoffel Pock, Where The Heck Are You?\" Finally remembering the right button, Pontoffel goes straight to Neefa Feefa, only to crash-land into the tower where she is being kept prisoner and destroy the piano. Neefa Feefa voices a wish to \"get away from it all\", just as Pontoffel had earlier, which comes to the attention of the fairies who appear to grant her wish. They are escorted home together, and for proving himself, Pontoffel is somehow hired at the pickle factory, along with Neefa Feefa. Outside, a rainbow appears as the Fairies fly the worn-out piano away.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18172173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18172173", "title": "Sakhi Sarwar", "text": "Sakhi Sarwar\n\nSakhi Sarwar (Urdu, Saraiki, Punjabi: ) is a town in Dera Ghazi Khan District, Pakistan. It is named after a Muslim Sufi saint Syed Ahmad Sultan, also known as Sakhi Sarwar, whose tomb is situated in the vicinity.\n\nThe tomb itself was built in the 13th century in a small village named Muqam in the Sulaiman Mountains, from Dera Ghazi Khan city. It was later expanded by the Mughal king Zahir-ud-din Muhammad Babur. It is a unique building of Mughal architecture.\n\nAn \"urs\", or festival in the honour of Syed Ahmad Sultan, also locally called \"Sangh Mela\", has been celebrated for centuries during Vaisakhi (March–April), with thousands of pilgrims coming to the town from the nearby localities. Historically, followers of Syed Ahmad Sultan belonged to various religions – Max Arthur Macauliffe, a colonial office appointed in Punjab, observed in 1875 that not only Muslims but Hindus also visited the shrines during the \"urs\".\n\nOn 3 April 2011, at the annual festival (\"urs\") in the honour Syed Ahmad Sultan, a twin suicide attack left 112 dead and almost two hundred injured.\n\n"}
{"id": "20532294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20532294", "title": "Sandra Samuel", "text": "Sandra Samuel\n\nSandra Samuel (born ) is an Indian nanny who saved the life of two-year-old Moshe Holtzberg during the November 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks. Samuel saved Holtzberg when Nariman House was attacked by the terrorists. Both of Holtzberg's parents were killed in the attack. Samuel now lives in Israel after being granted honorary citizenship in 2010. She works for ALEH in Jerusalem and still has a relationship with Moshe.\n\nSamuel had been living in the Mumbai Chabad House and working for Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and his wife, Rivka, since 2003. The Holtzbergs were the Israel-born directors of the house run by the global Orthodox Jewish Chabad movement. Samuel had been the nanny caring for the Holtzbergs' son Moshe since his birth. Samuel stated that she called them \"my rabbi\" and \"my Rivki.\" When she started working there in 2003, it was expected to be a temporary job but she stated that she was \"so captivated by their generous, courageous spirits\" that she stayed on. When Moshe was born, she took the role of nanny.\n\nIn June 2008, her husband, John, a Keralite who worked as a mechanic, died suddenly in his sleep of an undiagnosed illness. She has two sons, Martin and Jackson, who were aged 18 and 25 at the time of the attack. She is a Christian. Samuel's family was originally from Goa but she lived most of her life in Mumbai.\n\nOn 26 November 2008, as the Mumbai attacks began, a group of attackers entered the Chabad house and began shooting at everyone inside. Samuel heard gunshots and locked herself in a laundry room as she heard Rivka screaming. Later, she heard Moshe calling out her name and crying. After emerging from the room and running upstairs, she found Gavriel and Rivka motionless and covered in blood with Moshe crying beside them, his pants drenched in blood. With the attackers still inside, Samuel said she grabbed Moshe and ran from the building. Later, when Indian commando teams stormed the house, it was confirmed that Gavriel and Rivka were among the 173 people killed in the attacks, and that Moshe was now an orphan.\n\nThe Chabad movement's leaders decided Moshe should not stay in India and that he would be relocated to Israel where he has family. However, the movement insisted that Samuel be allowed to come with him, because, as a Chabad spokesperson stated: \"At this point she's the only one the boy is responding to.\" Although Samuel had no passport, Moshe's grand uncle, Rabbi Yitzchak Dovid Grossman, helped arrange for her to get a visa to come to Israel with Holtzberg to help him start his new life. The Israeli government under Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni granted Samuel a special visa offering immigration status. They left India for Israel shortly after attending Moshe's parents' funeral.\n\nOn 4 December 2008, Samuel gave an interview with CNN in which she said she sees no heroism in her actions and that she wishes she could have been able to help more people, especially Moshe's parents. She also stated that she still has nightmares about the attacks. Currently, Samuel is living in Israel where she remains the caregiver for Moshe, who she says is learning to play again although he likes to have her close by. Samuel told an interviewer, \"They said it is important I am here [in Israel]. Me, I just take care of the baby.\" When asked about her plans for the future, Samuel said she would stay in Israel for as long as Moshe needs her. She stated that \"No one knows how much Moshe saw, or how much he knows. His back is bruised where terrorists hit him. Now I want to see that this baby who has been given in my care, he grows big, brave like his [dad].\" Samuel says she wants to be with Moshe until he \"grows big\" and that \"By God's grace I hope I am there to see it. That's it. All my blessings to my Moshe baby.\"\n\nSamuel later revealed that she was not supposed to be at the Chabad house that evening because she usually visited one of her sons on Wednesday evenings. She stated that \"God kept me there because God already knew what would happen.\"\n\nIn a subsequent interview, Samuel stated that Moshe Holtzberg is happy again, and that he \"is like a normal kid, just enjoying himself. He has gotten used to other people surrounding him. He loves it here. He is in very good condition, just like normal. He is having his breakfast, lunch and snacks and he sleeps very well now.\" She added that he no longer cries out for his parents: \"He is not even asking for them now because he is too happy. He loves it here. He has swings, a garden, a see-saw.\"\n\nSamuel and Holtzberg initially stayed with Rabbi Grossman after arriving in Israel. However, they later moved to Afula to live with his maternal grandparents.\n\nIn early December 2008, fifth-graders at Solomon Schecter Day School in Jericho, New York wrote individual letters to Samuel to thank her for saving Holtzberg's life. The students cited Samuel's heroism based on the Jewish tradition that \"one who saves one person saves an entire nation.\"\n\nOn 30 November 2008, the International Raoul Wallenberg Foundation, at a special session, unanimously voted to grant Sandra Samuel the Esfira Maiman Women Rescuers Medal in recognition of her bravery. The foundation stated that \"Sandra has taught us two lessons of cardinal importance. The first one is that human solidarity is agnostic to race and religion. The second lesson, not less important, is that rescuers are still very much relevant nowadays, as they were more than six decades ago.\"\n\nSamuel was awarded permanent resident status and honorary Israeli citizenship on 13 September 2010.\n\nAs of 2008, the government of Israel was reported to be considering granting Samuel the title \"Righteous among the Nations\". \n\n"}
{"id": "33057162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33057162", "title": "Soliciting to murder", "text": "Soliciting to murder\n\nSoliciting to murder\nIt shall be unlawful for any person or agent of that person to solicit another person or persons to cause the death of a human being by the act of murder in the first degree as is defined by Section 701.7 of this title. A person who is convicted, pleads guilty or pleads nolo contendere to the act of solicitation for murder in the first degree, except as provided in Section 701.7 of this title, shall be guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment in a state penal institution for not less than five (5) years nor more than life imprisonment in the State Penitentiary.\nIn common parlance, the act of soliciting to murder may be thought of as \"hiring a hitman\", though the word \"hiring\" is used loosely, and the act requires no financial transaction to qualify as such. Merely the intent to engage another in an act of murder qualifies as soliciting.\n\nThis offence is created by section 4 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 which reads:\n\nThe words omitted at the beginning were repealed by sections 5(10)(a) and 65(5) of, and Schedule 13 to, the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nThe words omitted elsewhere were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1892.\n\nThe words \"imprisonment for life\" were substituted for the words from \"be kept\" to \"years\", on 8 September 1977, by section 5(10)(b) of the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nThe following cases are relevant:\n\nSoliciting to murder is an offence against the person for the purposes of section 3 of the Visiting Forces Act 1952.\n\nSoliciting to murder is an indictable-only offence.\n\nSoliciting to murder is punishable with imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nSee the Crown Prosecution Service sentencing manual.\n\nThe following cases are relevant:\n\nAs to violent offender orders, see section 98(3) of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008.\n\nInitially, a person guilty of an offence under section 4 was liable on conviction to penal servitude for a term not more than ten and not less than three years or to be imprisoned for a term not exceeding two years, with or without hard labour.\n\nFrom 1948 to 8 September 1977, the maximum sentence was imprisonment for a term of ten years.\n\nThis offence is created by section 4 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861. The penalty was increased by article 5(1) of the Criminal Law (Northern Ireland) Order 1977 (S.I. 1977/1249 (N.I. 16)).\n\nThis offence is created by section 4 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861.\n"}
{"id": "2501928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2501928", "title": "Super Best Friends", "text": "Super Best Friends\n\n\"Super Best Friends\" is the third episode of the fifth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\", and the 68th episode of the series overall. It first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on July 4, 2001. In the episode, Stan, Kyle, Cartman and Kenny discover the magician David Blaine performing in South Park and decide to join his cult, the Blaintologists. Stan quickly finds out that the Blaintologists are not as nice as everyone thinks and tries to convince the other boys they've been brainwashed, and have forsaken their friends and families. Teaming up with Jesus, Stan calls upon the Super Best Friends, a parody of the Super Friends, to destroy Blaine and thwart the mass suicide pact he has launched.\n\nThe episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker and is rated TV-MA in the United States. It depicts several religious figures, including Muhammad, whose appearance at the time of the original airing caused little to no controversy. Following Islamists' death threats regarding Muhammad's portrayal in the 2010 episode titled \"201\", the South Park Studios website no longer streams \"Super Best Friends\", nor is it available for streaming or purchase from online stores. The episode has been replaced on the South Park Studios with a notice: \"We apologize that South Park Studios cannot stream Super Best Friends.\" The episode was also featured in syndication, but was permanently removed after the threats. It is one of three episodes which are unavailable on Hulu, along with season 14's \"200\" and the aforementioned \"201.\"\n\nIn 2013, fans voted \"Super Best Friends\" as the best episode of Season 5.\n\nDavid Blaine visits South Park, impressing the town's residents, including Kyle, Stan, Cartman, and Kenny, with his street magic. Mesmerized, the boys join the cult of \"Blaintology,\" hoping to learn more about magic. Stan becomes progressively more disturbed by the cult and soon leaves, but Kyle refuses to join him, and so Stan asks Jesus for help. Meanwhile, Kyle and Cartman go door to door in a recruitment drive, sporting nametags labeled \"Elder Kyle\" and \"Elder Cartman.\"\n\nJesus appears at Blaine's show in Denver, and challenges him by performing the miracle of the loaves and fish... after requesting that everybody in the audience turn around; Blaine manages to win the crowd with much more powerful enchantments. Jesus promptly requires the assistance of the Super Best Friends: a group of major religious figures including Muhammad, Buddha, Moses, Joseph Smith, Krishna, Laozi and \"Sea Man\", an Aquaman-like character. They are dedicated to defending the world against evil (except for Buddha, who \"doesn't really believe in evil\").\n\nThe Blaintologists, meanwhile, petition the government for tax-exempt status. Their request is denied, and all the Blaintologists are told that they are to commit mass suicide in Washington, D.C. Kyle is shown to have escaped the cult's control, but when he tries to convince Cartman that they should flee, Cartman reports him, and Kyle is imprisoned in a glass bubble and forced to participate at the mass suicide. When word about the mass suicide reaches the Super Best Friends, they consult Moses (previously seen in \"Jewbilee\") for advice.\n\nIn D.C., the Blaintologists begin to drown themselves in the Reflecting Pool even though it is only approximately a foot deep, while Cartman installs a hose in Kyle's glass bubble to fill it with water, so as to drown him. The Super Best Friends arrive at the scene, to which Blaine responds by animating the statue of Abraham Lincoln to fight them.\n\nMeanwhile, Stan searches for his friends, first finding Kenny drowned in the pool and shouting \"Oh my God! They killed Kenny!\", to which Kyle replies \"You bastards!\"; they alternately repeat their catchphrases in Marco Polo fashion to find each other. In order to defeat the Abraham Lincoln statue, the Super Best Friends create a giant animated John Wilkes Booth statue, which shoots it in the head, causing it to fall over and shatter Kyle's prison. Afterwards, Joseph Smith uses his ice powers to freeze the reflecting pool so as to prevent more suicides.\n\nIt is revealed that Cartman has not managed to kill himself, as he keeps coming up for air. Blaine curses the Super Best Friends for ruining his plans and flies away in a rocket ship. Stan finally announces that any religion which forces people to relinquish their money or control over their lives is really a cult. After his speech, Kyle reconciles with Stan, they amuse themselves with kicking a taunting Cartman in the testicles, and the episode ends with the Super Best Friends flying away.\n\nIn the DVD commentary, Parker states that the episode's references to real-life magician David Blaine and \"Blaintology\" were allusions to Scientology.\n\nIn 2005, cartoon depictions of Muhammad became more controversial during the \"Jyllands-Posten\" Muhammad cartoons controversy. The creators of \"South Park\" returned to this theme in later episodes, parodying censorship attempts and portraying Muhammad again in the 2006 episodes \"Cartoon Wars Part I\" and \"Cartoon Wars Part II\" and again in the 2010 episode \"200\". Further controversy ensued, and one group, \"Revolution Muslim\", warned that South Park's creators would \"probably wind up like Theo van Gogh\". Around this time, the original \"Super Best Friends\" episode was removed from the South Park Studios website.\n\n\"Super Best Friends\", along with the fourteen other episodes from \"South Park: the Complete Fifth Season\", were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on February 22, 2005. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode.\n\nThe episode was included in the re-release of the fifth season on Blu-ray, released on December 5, 2017. This was the first time the episode was made available in HD, as the episode was not released alongside the rest of the season when it debuted in HD on iTunes in 2011. The episode is shown in its original presentation, without Muhammad's image being obscured as in later episodes of the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "74673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74673", "title": "Telemachus", "text": "Telemachus\n\nTelemachus ( ; Ancient Greek: Τηλέμαχος \"Tēlemakhos\", literally \"far-fighter\") is a figure in Greek mythology, the son of Odysseus and Penelope, and a central character in Homer's \"Odyssey\". The first four books of the \"Odyssey\" focus on Telemachus's journeys in search of news about his father, who has yet to return home from the Trojan War, and are traditionally given the title the \"Telemachy\".\n\nTelemachus's name in Greek means \"far from battle\", or perhaps \"fighting from afar\", as a bowman does.\n\nIn Homer's \"Odyssey\", Telemachus, under the instructions of Athena (who accompanies him during the quest), spends the first four books trying to gain knowledge of his father, Odysseus, who left for Troy when Telemachus was still an infant. At the outset of Telemachus' journey, Odysseus had been absent from his home at Ithaca for twenty years due to the Trojan War and the intervention of Poseidon. During his absence, Odysseus' house has been occupied by hordes of suitors seeking the hand of Penelope. Telemachus first visits Nestor and is well received by the old man who regales him with stories of his father's glory. Telemachus then departs with Nestor's son Peisistratus, who accompanies him to the halls of Menelaus and his wife Helen. Whilst there, Telemachus is again treated as an honored guest as Menelaus and Helen tell complementary yet contradictory stories of his father's exploits at Troy.\n\nTelemachus focuses on his father's return to Ithaca in Book XV. He visits Eumaeus, the swineherd, who happens to be hosting a disguised Odysseus. After Odysseus reveals himself to Telemachus due to Athena's advice, the two men plan the downfall of the suitors. Telemachus then returns to the palace to keep an eye on the suitors and to await his father as the beggar.\n\nWhen Penelope challenges the suitors to string Odysseus' bow and shoot an arrow through the handle-holes of twelve axeheads, Telemachus is the first to attempt the task. He would have completed the task, nearly stringing the bow on his fourth attempt; however, Odysseus subtly stops him before he can finish his attempt. Following the suitors' failure at this task, Odysseus reveals himself and he and Telemachus bring swift and bloody death to the suitors.\n\nThe \"Telegony\" was a short two-book epic poem recounting the life and death of Odysseus after the events of the \"Odyssey\". In this mythological postscript, Odysseus is accidentally killed by Telegonus, his unknown son by the goddess Circe. After Odysseus' death, Telemachus returns to Aeaea with Telegonus and Penelope, and there marries Circe.\n\nFrom the \"Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology\":Telemachus: The son of Odysseus and Penelope (Hom. Od. i. 216). He was still an infant at the time when his father went to Troy, and in his absence of nearly twenty years he grew up to manhood. After the gods in council had determined that Odysseus should return home from the island of Ogygia, Athena, assuming the appearance of Mentes, king of the Taphians, went to Ithaca, and advised Telemachus to eject the troublesome suitors of his mother from his house, and to go to Pylos and Sparta, to gather information concerning his father. Telemachus followed the advice, but the suitors refused to quit his house; and Athena, in the form of Mentes, accompanied Telemachus to Pylos. There they were hospitably received by Nestor, who also sent his own son to conduct Telemachus to Sparta. Menelaus again kindly received him, and communicated to him the prophecy of Proteus concerning Odysseus (Hom. Od. i.–iv.).From Sparta Telemachus returned home; and on his arrival there, he found his father, with the swineherd Eumaeus. But as Athena had metamorphosed him into a beggar, Telemachus did not recognise his father until the latter disclosed to him who he was. Father and son now agreed to punish the suitors; and when they were slain or dispersed, Telemachus accompanied his father to the aged Laertes. (Hom. Od. xv.–xxiv.; comp. Odysseus.)In the post-Homeric traditions, we read that Palamedes, when endeavouring to persuade Odysseus to join the Greeks against Troy, and the latter feigned idiocy, placed the infant Telemachus before the plough with which Odysseus was ploughing (Hygin. Fab. 95; Serv. ad Aen. ii. 81; Tzetz. ad Lycoph. 384; Aelian, V. H. xiii. 12.).According to some accounts, Telemachus became the father of Perseptolis either by Polycaste, the daughter of Nestor, or by Nausicaa, the daughter of Alcinous (Eustath. ad Hom. p. 1796; Dict. Cret. vi. 6.). Others relate that he was induced by Athena to marry Circe, and became by her the father of Latinus (Hygin. Fab. 127; comp. Telegonus), or that he married Cassiphone, a daughter of Circe, but in a quarrel with his mother-in-law he slew her, for which in his turn he was killed by Cassiphone (Tzetz. ad Lycoph. 808.). He is also said to have had a daughter called Roma, who married Aeneas (Serv. ad Aen. i. 273.).One account states that Odysseus, in consequence of a prophecy that his son was dangerous to him, sent him away from Ithaca. Servius (ad Aen. x. 167) makes Telemachus the founder of the town of Clusium in Etruria.\n\nIn \"Contest of Homer and Hesiod\", it is alleged that the Roman Emperor Hadrian asked the Delphic Oracle about Homer's birthplace and parentage. The Oracle replied that Homer came from Ithaca and that Telemachus was his father by Epicasta, daughter of Nestor.\n\nAccording to Aristotle and Dictys of Crete, Telemachus married Nausicaa, King Alcinous' daughter, and fathered a son named Perseptolis or Ptoliporthus.\n\nTelemachus is the subject of François Fénelon's \"The Adventures of Telemachus, Son of Ulysses\" (1699), a scathing attack on the monarchy of France.\n\nTelemachus was the subject of numerous operas throughout the eighteenth century, most based on Fénelon's version. Among the most famous of these operas were André Cardinal Destouches's \"Télémaque\" (1714), Alessandro Scarlatti's \"Telemaco\" (1718), Gluck's \"Telemaco, ossia L'isola di Circe\" (1765), Giuseppe Gazzaniga's \"Gli errori di Telemaco\" (1776), Jean-François Le Sueur's \"Télémaque dans l'île de Calypso ou Le triomphe de la sagesse\" (1796), Simon Mayr's \"Telemaco nell'isola di Calipso\" (1797), and Fernando Sor's \"Telemaco nell'isola di Calipso\" (1797).\n\nTelemachus is one of the main characters in \"Ulysses\", a 1706 play by Nicholas Rowe.\n\nTelemachus is featured in the 1833 poem (published in 1842) \"Ulysses\" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.\n\nIn the 1922 novel \"Ulysses\" by James Joyce, Stephen Dedalus is generally regarded as corresponding to Telemachus.\n\n\"Telemachus\" is the title of Book Three of Thomas Wolfe's autobiographical novel \"Of Time and the River\" (1935).\n\nJoseph Brodsky published the poem \"Odysseus to Telemachus\" in 1972.\n\nTelemachus is a frequent character in the poetry of Louise Glück.\n\nTelemachus was the name of Carole King's cat and is pictured on the cover of her album \"Tapestry\".\n\nTelemachus appears as the son of Ulysses in the 1981 French-Japanese animated television series \"Ulysses 31\".\n\nTelemachus is a major character in Madeline Miller's novel \"Circe\". He eventually marries and has children with Circe.\n\nTelemachus is the title of a poem by American poet Ocean Vuong \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22326630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326630", "title": "Triplemanía II-A", "text": "Triplemanía II-A\n\nTriplemanía II-A a major \"lucha libre\", or professional wrestling event Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) that took place at the Aguascalientes baseball stadium on April 26, 1994. The show was the first of three Triplemanía II shows held in 1994 with two subsequent shows held in May. 1994 was the first year AAA held multiple Triplemanía shows in a year, a tradition they would continue through 1997, after which Triplemanía became a single annual event. The annual Triplemanía show(s) are AAA's biggest show of the year, serving as the culmination of major storylines and feature wrestlers from all over the world competing in what has been described as AAA's version of WrestleMania or their Super Bowl event.\n\nIn the main event of the first Triplemanía II show was a \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or bet match, where both Heavy Metal and Jerry Estrada \"bet\" their hair on the outcome of the match. The main event originally ended in a disqualification loss for Heavy Metal, which seemed like he was going to be shaved bald. Moments later AAA owner and booker Antonio Peña came to ringside and restarted the match, with Heavy Metal winning the match and the hair of Jerry Estrada. On the under-card the team known as \"Los Payasos\" (Spanish for \"The Clowns\"; Coco Rojo, Coco Verde and Coco Amarillo) defeated \"Los Hermanos Dinamita\" (Cien Caras, Máscara Año 2000 and Universo 2000) to win the Mexican National Trios Championship. The show featured six additional matches with AAA wrestlers as well as the Japanese Tiger Mask III from New Japan Pro Wrestling.\n\nAAA founder Antonio Peña had originally envisioned the Triplemanía series as three shows held over the summer, but for the first year AAA only held 1 show, Triplemanía I. In 1994 AAA announced that they would hold three Triplemanía shows, building the storylines into its climax at the third and final Triplemanía II show. The first Triplemanía II show would take place in the outdoor baseball stadium in Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes on April 26, the second show, \"Triplemanía II-B\", would be at the Estadio Olímpico Benito Juárez in Zapopan, Jalisco on May 15 and the third and final Triplemanía II show, Triplemanía II-C, would happen at the El Toro bullfighting arena in Tijuana, Baja California on May 27, 1994. Peña decided that Konnan and Jake Roberts, who were slated to main event Triplemanía II-C would not face off at Triplemanía II-A, making it more special when they actually fought on the later Triplemanía shows.\n\nThe Triplemanía show featured eight professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nDuring the fifth match of the night cameras showed wrestlers Miguel Pérez, Jr. and Chicano Power in the crowd, holding up a Puerto Rican flag while heckling Konnan. At one point during the match Konnan's partner Máscara Sagrada had to prevent him from jumping into the crowd to go after the two heckling wrestlers.\n\nAAA's main storyline post Triplemanía II-A and for more or less the entire year that followed was \"Los Gringos Locos\" and their storyline war with all of AAA. The next chapter came at Triplemanía II-B where Black Cat was unmasked after losing a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" to Máscara Sagrada. The main event of Triplemanía II-B saw Miguel Pérez Jr. debut as part of \"Los Gringos Locos\", following up on his appearance in the crowd during Triplemanía II-A. Pérez, Roberts and Love Machine would lose to Konnan, Aguayo and Cien Caras. That match served as a preview to Triplemanía II-C's main event between Konnan and Jake Roberts where Konnan finally ended the storyline with Roberts that had started a year earlier. The \"Los Gringos Locos\" storyline carried AAA into their subsequent major shows \"Night of Champions\" and later on their first ever pay-per-view (PPV) AAA When Worlds Collide that was driven by the feud between \"a Pareja del Terror\" (Eddy Guerrero and Love Machine) facing off against El Hijo del Santo and Octagón in a \"Luchas de Apuestas\" match where Guerrero and Love Machine ended up losing their hair. 19 days afterwards Love Machine, real name Art Barr, dies of unknown causes. The popularity of Konnan in the wake of his victory over Jake Robers made his turn to the \"rudo\" side months later ever more shocking, with Konnan attacking his longtime friend Perro Aguayo during a match and joining \"Los Gringos Locos\" instead. As When Worlds Collide Aguayo defeated Konnan in a steel cage match.\n\n\"Los Payasos\" winning the Mexican National Trios Championship would be one of the last victories in the trios' \"Undefeated Streak\" \"Los Payasos\" lost the Mexican National Trios Championship to the team of Ángel Azteca, El Hijo del Santo and Super Muñeco on May 22, 1994. \"Los Payasos\" and \"Los Hermanos Dinamita\" in what became a non-title rematch at Triplemanía II-C which tool place inside a steel cage match. At the show \"Los Hermanos Dinamita\" were able to hand \"Los Payasos their second loss ever.\n\nNJPW representative Tiger Mask III also competed at the next Triplemanía II show, teaming with fellow NJPW representative Jushin Thunder Liger and AAA representatives El Hijo del Santo and Octagón, defeating the team of La Parka, Psicosis, Blue Panther, and Eddy Guerrero at Triplemanía II-B Afterwards Tiger Mask II and Jushin Thunder Liger returned to Japan but AAA and NJPW would work together repeatedly over the years until NJPW began partnering with Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) in Mexico. At that point AAA began working with both All Japan Pro Wrestling and Pro Wrestling Noah and has toured Japan on more than one occasion.\n\nJohn Molinario, who writes about wrestling for the Canadian Online Explorer, wrote that the main event \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match was considered the best match on the show and stated that \"Fans and critics were blown away by the show, thinking that there was no way the remaining two shows could possibly match its quality\".\n"}
{"id": "46760982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46760982", "title": "Twenty-first-century fundraising walks in Tasmania", "text": "Twenty-first-century fundraising walks in Tasmania\n\nTasmania has been since it was settled by Europeans, traversed in many ways, and in most cases un-recorded.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, some people have created and recorded their journeys around the island as 'events' for publicity and fund raising, with most walks mentioned here in the latter category.\n\nA north–south crossing of Australia may also include walking around Tasmania, known as a 'traversal crossing'.\n\nHistorically, the sheer volume of people walking or traversing the island in a number of ways is not traceable. Some noted nineteenth-century ventures around the island before proper roads included such ventures of the walks of Thomas Bather Moore and the Walk to the West, which involved substantial logistic issues due to terrain and lack of support.\n\nThe claims of these ventures in no way should be considered 'firsts', as in most cases earlier walks of substantially more difficult circumstances were never recorded in this manner. Also most walks and walkers are on made roads.\n\nKelvyn Charles Yong-Hyeon Linton and his father Christopher Neil Linton walked across Tasmania, in 2015 to raise funds for mood disorders. They backpacked the entire coastal route, although they did accept some offers of food and hospitality along the way. Kelvyn was 14 years old at the time, making him the youngest person to have walked across Tasmania, at that time. This was also the first father-son team to complete the journey. His father went on to complete a walk around the perimeter of Tasmania, becoming the first person to do so.\n\nHardy James \"Jimmy\" Harrington walked around Tasmania, in 2014 to raise funds for child cancer. He left Melbourne on the Spirit of Tasmania to Devonport on 2 May, departing Devonport toward Hobart on 3 May. His route took him through Deloraine to Launceston, through the Epping Forest to Ross, to Oatlands, past Bagdad and into Hobart on 9 May. He then rested in Hobart a day then went back to Devonport and departed once again on the Spirit of Tasmania back to Melbourne (11 May). James was 20 years old at the time.\n\nScott Loxley walked across Tasmania, in 2013 to raise funds for he Monash Children's Hospital. He left Melbourne on the Spirit of Tasmania to Devonport on 2 November departing Devonport toward Hobart on 3 November. His route took him through Deloraine to Launceston, down the through the Epping Forest to Ross, to Oatlands, past Bagdad and into Hobart on 22 November.\nb\n\nJohn Olsen has walked across Australia twice, between the northern and southern-most points, and the western and eastern-most points. His first crossing included crossing Tasmania.\n\nHis first journey commenced in 2004. John walked 5,622 km unsupported from Cape York to Tasmania in 167 days, and raised a little over $10,000 for a charity working with children with cerebral palsy. On 18 June 2008, John Olsen undertook his second walk, walking from Steep Point, to Cape Byron. He travelled a distance 4752 km, raising $130,000 for the Australian Lions Children’s Mobility Foundation (ALCMF) and the Australian Leukodystrophy Support Group Inc (ALDS). The disparity in distance is due to John walking back to his home in Geelong after reaching Cape Byron. Both the ALCMF and ALDS help children with progressive degenerative brain disease, which gives rise to mobility problems. The progress of John’s second journey was broadcast by Ian McNamara’s ABC radio’s ‘Australia All Over’ program on Sundays. John completed the walk in 200 days, finishing on 3 January 2009.\n\nJohn’s accomplishment was recognised by Sensis when they depicted him on the cover of the local (Geelong and Colac) Yellow and White Pages directories for 2010/2011\n\nAndrew \"Cad\" Cadigan finished a solo walk from Sydney back to Sydney in June 2012. He walked unassisted via Tasmania, Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Perth, Broome, Darwin, Townsville, and Brisbane. Cadigan undertook the walk in honour of Chris Simpson, a friend who had died from complications related to myelodysplasia, and raised over $65,000 - $25,000 for The Cancer Council and $40,000 for the Leukemia Foundation. Shortly after completing the walk, whilst holidaying and recuperating in Thailand, Cadigan suffered head injuries in a motorcycle accident, and later died in hospital in Sydney, on 5 October 2012. A book, written by his author father Neil, about his walk and tragic death was released in 2014. The Leukemia Foundation has struck a research PHD into myelodysplasia, named in honour of Cadigan and Simpson, with a trust called Cad's Cause continuing to raise funds.\n\nColin Ricketts walked around Australia raising money for kids with cancer. He departed Adelaide on 4 January 2005, returning 15,430 km and 379 days later on 17 January 2006. He pushed a three-wheel baby-jogger named 'Wilson' and followed National Highway 1 in an anti-clockwise direction. Colin incorporated a Tasmania crossing from Hobart to Devonport as part of his walk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11373901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11373901", "title": "Victorian Rally Championship", "text": "Victorian Rally Championship\n\nThe Victorian Rally Championship was the evolution series of car rallies in Victoria, Australia. Prior to 1972, car rallies/trials relied heavily on the ability of a navigator to read a map and direct their driver over a planned course covering shire roads and forest tracks at night.\n\nIn 1972 the series evolved in line with the improvement of forest tracks, and the population of properties along Shire roads – into a more driver-oriented event.\n\nRoute instructions became comprehensive, making it easier for a crew to avoid getting lost, and results were effectively determined by how fast the drivers drove on the generally narrow forest roads.\n\nSince 1990, many of these events have been held during daylight hours – making the competition more attractive to spectators.\n\nWinners of the Victorian Rally Championship and the preceding Victorian Trials Championship are as follows:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Driver and navigator were not from the same crew.\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> Victorian Rally Championship introduced; previously, this was known as the Victorian Trials Championship.\n\nSince 2003, there has been a separate Two Wheel Drive Championship contested as part of the Annual Championships.\nWinners of the Victorian 2WD Rally Championship are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "6996285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6996285", "title": "Whoop-Up Days", "text": "Whoop-Up Days\n\nWhoop-Up Days is an annual non-profit festival, exhibition and rodeo held in Lethbridge, Alberta, for five days in the last full week of August.\n\nThe event includes a 4-km parade through downtown, daily concerts, bull riding, a rodeo, an indoor and outdoor trade show, entertainment on the free stage, a midway, HobbyWorld and citywide pancake breakfasts. In 2007, a record-breaking attendance at the event numbered 69,964. The previous record was set in 2006 when 67,590 visitors attended.\n\nEconomic impact from the fair amounts to roughly $2.5 million spent by event operations, locals and 13,000 visitors.\n\nWhoop-Up Days takes place at the Exhibition Park, which is on the eastern edge of the city. Permanent structures at the site include a 10,664 m² (114,787 ft²) pavilion complex (main, north, west and south pavilions, and Saddle Room), Heritage Hall, Pioneer Park, a grandstand, and a racetrack.\n\nThe first fair was held on 5 October 1897 at the agricultural grounds in Queen Victoria Park (renamed in 1955 to Gyro Park). It included stage presentations, traveling shows and horse racing.\n\nIn 1904, eight years before the Calgary Stampede, the first large-scale rodeo was staged as part of Whoop-Up Days.\n\nIn 1912, the festival was moved to its current location east of Henderson Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47290014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47290014", "title": "Willard Fuller", "text": "Willard Fuller\n\nWillard Fuller (1915-2009) was an American faith healer and proponent of psychic dentistry.\n\nFuller was born in Grant Parish, Louisiana. In 1946 he graduated in theology at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. He formed his own healing ministry known as the Lively Stones World Healing Fellowship. He worked in Palatka, Florida.\n\nIt was alleged that Fuller could cause dental fillings to appear spontaneously, change silver into golden fillings, straighten crooked teeth or produce new teeth. However, magicians and skeptics have found these claims dubious, unsupported by any solid evidence. One dentist examined some patients of Fuller. In one case miraculous gold fillings turned out to be tobacco stains. In another case a female patient who reported a miraculous new silver filling admitted she had forgotten that the filling was already there.\n\nScience writer Kurt Butler has written:\n\nAs explained by James Randi in \"The Faith Healers\", he convinces many that the miracles happen because people aren't very observant about their own teeth, regular amalgam can appear yellowish with a dim flashlight, and because they want to believe. When they later realize that no miracle occurred, Fuller's circus has left town or they are too embarrassed to complain, or they blame their lack of faith for the fading and erasure of the miracle.\" \n\nFuller was once convicted of fraud in Australia for practicing dentistry without a license.\n\nScience writer Terence Hines has written that Fuller was \"nothing more than a practitioner of sleight of hand.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39487677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39487677", "title": "William R. Purnell", "text": "William R. Purnell\n\nRear Admiral William Reynolds Purnell (6 September 1886 – 3 March 1955) was an officer in the United States Navy who served in World War I and World War II. A 1908 graduate of the United States Naval Academy, he captained destroyers during World War I. He was awarded the Navy Cross for his role in protecting convoys against German submarines as commander of the .\n\nHe was promoted to rear admiral in November 1941. During World War II, he was chief of staff of the ill-fated Asiatic Fleet at the start of the Pacific War. He later served as Assistant Chief of Naval Operations for Materiel. He was the navy representative on the Joint Committee on New Weapons and Equipment, and, from September 1942, the navy representative on the Military Policy Committee, the three-man committee that oversaw the Manhattan Project. Purnell helped coordinate its activities with those of the navy. In 1945, he travelled to Tinian as the representative of the Military Policy Committee, and coordinated preparations for the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki with senior army and navy commanders in the Pacific. He retired from the navy in 1946 and died in 1955.\n\nWilliam Reynolds Purnell was born in Bowling Green, Missouri, on 6 September 1886. In 1908, he graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. He was commissioned as an ensign in 1910. During World War I, he commanded the destroyers , , , and . For his services, he was awarded the Navy Cross. His citation read:\n\nIn January 1917, while he was serving on the \"Rowan\", he married Ada Dodge Curtiss, the daughter of Walter Phelps Dodge and the ex-wife of Gerald S. Curtiss. They had one son, William Reynolds Purnell, Jr.\n\nAfter the war, he commanded the tanker from 1934 to 1936. Alternating duty afloat with service ashore, he then became secretary to the General Board. He commanded the cruiser from January to December 1939.\n\nPurnell became Chief of Staff of Admiral Thomas C. Hart's Asiatic Fleet. Purnell represented the United States at a planning conference in Singapore in April 1941 at which American, British, Dutch, Australian, and New Zealand commanders attempted to coordinate their plans for an increasingly likely war with Japan. He was promoted to rear admiral in November 1941. On 7 December, Purnell played golf with Hart. War broke out the next morning. The Japanese advanced quickly and the Asiatic Fleet moved from the Philippines to Java in January. As the Japanese closed in on Java, Purnell flew to Broome on 25 February.\n\nIn Australia, Purnell became chief of staff to Vice Admiral William A. Glassford, the commander of US Naval Forces, Southwest Pacific. When Glassford departed in May 1942, Purnell took his place. He too left Australia in June 1942, for duty in Washington, D.C., in the Office of the Commander in Chief, United States Fleet, Admiral Ernest J. King. For his services, he was awarded the Navy Distinguished Service Medal. His citation read:\nPurnell became Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Materiel. He was also the navy representative on the Joint Committee on New Weapons and Equipment, and, from September 1942, the navy representative on the Military Policy Committee, the three-man committee that oversaw the Manhattan Project. Purnell helped coordinate the activities of the Manhattan Project with those of the navy, particularly the navy's thermal diffusion research, and he helped provide scientists and technicians from the navy for the project.\n\nIn February 1945, Purnell arranged for Commander Frederick Ashworth to go to Guam to brief Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz on the project. He provided Ashworth with a letter from King stressing the project's importance and the need for secrecy. Ashworth selected a base site for the Manhattan Project's operations. He inspected facilities on Guam and Tinian, and chose the latter.\n\nTinian's harbor suffered from congestion due to extensive base development work, and ships sometimes took months to unload. The director of the Manhattan Project, Major General Leslie R. Groves, Jr., went to Purnell, who arranged for an order from King to Nimitz stating that all shipments related to the Manhattan Project and the 509th Composite Group had to be unloaded immediately on arrival, regardless of the consequent disruption to the port's operations.\nProblems like this underlined the value of having high-ranking officers on hand to deal with local commanders to make decisions on the spot if necessary. In drawing up an organization for command of the Manhattan Project's operations, Groves and Purnell agreed that Purnell should to be present on Tinian as both the representative of the Military Policy Committee and the personal representative of Admiral King. He was joined by Brigadier General Thomas F. Farrell, the Manhattan Project's Deputy for Operations, and the two shared responsibility for coordinating the Manhattan Project's activities with the senior army and navy commanders in the Pacific. Along with Captain William S. Parsons, the director of Project Alberta, they formed what became informally known as the \"Tinian Joint Chiefs\".\n\nPurnell was the first proponent of the idea that two atomic attacks, one following quickly after the other, would be required to end the war. This was something that Groves and Purnell discussed a number of times. \"I knew that with him and Farrell on the ground at Tinian,\" Groves wrote. \"There would be no unnecessary delay in exploiting our success\" after the bombing of Hiroshima. The main difficulty with the second mission, then scheduled for 11 August, was the weather, which was predicted to be good until 9 August but bad for at least five days starting on 10 August. Parsons agreed to work the assembly team around the clock to get the Fat Man bomb ready by the evening of 8 August.\n\nBefore Major Charles Sweeney took off on the mission, Purnell took him aside and asked him if he knew how much the bomb cost. Sweeney did not know; Purnell told him it was about $2 billion. He then asked if Sweeney knew how much his aircraft was worth. This Sweeney did know; over half a million dollars. Purnell then told him: \"I'd suggest you keep those relative values in mind for this mission.\"\nAfter the war, Purnell served as a member of the Army-Navy Evaluation Board during Operation Crossroads. He retired from the navy in October 1946, and moved to Palo Alto, California, where he died on 5 March 1955. He was buried in Golden Gate National Cemetery. He was survived by his wife, Ada Dodge Purnell, and his son, William R. Purnell, Jr.\n\n"}
{"id": "32927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32927", "title": "World War II", "text": "World War II\n\nWorld War II (often abbreviated to WWII or WW2), also known as the Second World War, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945. The vast majority of the world's countries—including all the great powers—eventually formed two opposing military alliances: the Allies and the Axis. A state of total war emerged, directly involving more than 100 million people from over 30 countries. The major participants threw their entire economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities behind the war effort, blurring the distinction between civilian and military resources. World War II was the deadliest conflict in human history, marked by 50 to 85 million fatalities, most of whom were civilians in the Soviet Union and China. It included massacres, the genocide of the Holocaust, strategic bombing, premeditated death from starvation and disease, and the only use of nuclear weapons in war.\n\nJapan, which aimed to dominate Asia and the Pacific, was at war with China by 1937, though neither side had declared war on the other. World War II is generally said to have begun on 1 September 1939, with the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations on Germany by France and the United Kingdom. From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, Germany conquered or controlled much of continental Europe, and formed the Axis alliance with Italy and Japan. Under the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact of August 1939, Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories of their European neighbours, Poland, Finland, Romania and the Baltic states. Following the onset of campaigns in North Africa and East Africa, and the fall of France in mid 1940, the war continued primarily between the European Axis powers and the British Empire. War in the Balkans, the aerial Battle of Britain, the Blitz, and the long Battle of the Atlantic followed. On 22 June 1941, the European Axis powers launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, opening the largest land theatre of war in history. This Eastern Front trapped the Axis, most crucially the German Wehrmacht, into a war of attrition. In December 1941, Japan launched a surprise attack on the United States and European colonies in the Pacific Ocean. Following an immediate U.S. declaration of war against Japan, supported by one from Great Britain, the European Axis powers quickly declared war on the U.S. in solidarity with their Japanese ally. Rapid Japanese conquests over much of the Western Pacific ensued, perceived by many in Asia as liberation from Western dominance and resulting in the support of several armies from defeated territories.\n\nThe Axis advance in the Pacific halted in 1942 when Japan lost the critical Battle of Midway; later, Germany and Italy were defeated in North Africa and then, decisively, at Stalingrad in the Soviet Union. Key setbacks in 1943, which included a series of German defeats on the Eastern Front, the Allied invasions of Sicily and Italy, and Allied victories in the Pacific, cost the Axis its initiative and forced it into strategic retreat on all fronts. In 1944, the Western Allies invaded German-occupied France, while the Soviet Union regained its territorial losses and turned toward Germany and its allies. During 1944 and 1945 the Japanese suffered major reverses in mainland Asia in South Central China and Burma, while the Allies crippled the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.\n\nThe war in Europe concluded with an invasion of Germany by the Western Allies and the Soviet Union, culminating in the capture of Berlin by Soviet troops, the suicide of Adolf Hitler and the German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945. Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945 and the refusal of Japan to surrender under its terms, the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on 6 and 9 August respectively. With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent, the possibility of additional atomic bombings, the Soviet entry into the war against Japan and its invasion of Manchuria, Japan announced its intention to surrender on 15 August 1945, cementing total victory in Asia for the Allies. Tribunals were set up by fiat by the Allies and war crimes trials were conducted in the wake of the war both against the Germans and the Japanese.\n\nWorld War II changed the political alignment and social structure of the globe. The United Nations (UN) was established to foster international co-operation and prevent future conflicts; the victorious great powers—China, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States—became the permanent members of its Security Council. The Soviet Union and United States emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage for the nearly half-century long Cold War. In the wake of European devastation, the influence of its great powers waned, triggering the decolonisation of Africa and Asia. Most countries whose industries had been damaged moved towards economic recovery and expansion. Political integration, especially in Europe, emerged as an effort to end pre-war enmities and create a common identity.\n\nThe start of the war in Europe is generally held to be 1 September 1939, beginning with the German invasion of Poland; the United Kingdom and France declared war on Germany two days later. The dates for the beginning of war in the Pacific include the start of the Second Sino-Japanese War on 7 July 1937, or even the Japanese invasion of Manchuria on 19 September 1931.\n\nOthers follow the British historian A. J. P. Taylor, who held that the Sino-Japanese War and war in Europe and its colonies occurred simultaneously, and the two wars merged in 1941. This article uses the conventional dating. Other starting dates sometimes used for World War II include the Italian invasion of Abyssinia on 3 October 1935. The British historian Antony Beevor views the beginning of World War II as the Battles of Khalkhin Gol fought between Japan and the forces of Mongolia and the Soviet Union from May to September 1939.\n\nThe exact date of the war's end is also not universally agreed upon. It was generally accepted at the time that the war ended with the armistice of 14 August 1945 (V-J Day), rather than the formal surrender of Japan, which was on 2 September 1945 that officially ended the war in Asia. A peace treaty with Japan was signed in 1951. A treaty regarding Germany's future allowed the reunification of East and West Germany to take place in 1990 and resolved most post-World War II issues. No formal peace treaty between Japan and the Soviet Union was ever signed.\n\nWorld War I had radically altered the political European map, with the defeat of the Central Powers—including Austria-Hungary, Germany, Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire—and the 1917 Bolshevik seizure of power in Russia, which eventually led to the founding of the Soviet Union. Meanwhile, the victorious Allies of World War I, such as France, Belgium, Italy, Romania and Greece, gained territory, and new nation-states were created out of the collapse of Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman and Russian Empires.\n\nTo prevent a future world war, the League of Nations was created during the 1919 Paris Peace Conference. The organisation's primary goals were to prevent armed conflict through collective security, military and naval disarmament, and settling international disputes through peaceful negotiations and arbitration.\n\nDespite strong pacifist sentiment after World War I, its aftermath still caused irredentist and revanchist nationalism in several European states. These sentiments were especially marked in Germany because of the significant territorial, colonial, and financial losses incurred by the Treaty of Versailles. Under the treaty, Germany lost around 13 percent of its home territory and all of its overseas possessions, while German annexation of other states was prohibited, reparations were imposed, and limits were placed on the size and capability of the country's armed forces.\n\nThe German Empire was dissolved in the German Revolution of 1918–1919, and a democratic government, later known as the Weimar Republic, was created. The interwar period saw strife between supporters of the new republic and hardline opponents on both the right and left. Italy, as an Entente ally, had made some post-war territorial gains; however, Italian nationalists were angered that the promises made by the United Kingdom and France to secure Italian entrance into the war were not fulfilled in the peace settlement. From 1922 to 1925, the Fascist movement led by Benito Mussolini seized power in Italy with a nationalist, totalitarian, and class collaborationist agenda that abolished representative democracy, repressed socialist, left-wing and liberal forces, and pursued an aggressive expansionist foreign policy aimed at making Italy a world power, promising the creation of a \"New Roman Empire\".\n\nAdolf Hitler, after an unsuccessful attempt to overthrow the German government in 1923, eventually became the Chancellor of Germany in 1933. He abolished democracy, espousing a radical, racially motivated revision of the world order, and soon began a massive rearmament campaign. Meanwhile, France, to secure its alliance, allowed Italy a free hand in Ethiopia, which Italy desired as a colonial possession. The situation was aggravated in early 1935 when the Territory of the Saar Basin was legally reunited with Germany and Hitler repudiated the Treaty of Versailles, accelerated his rearmament programme, and introduced conscription.\n\nThe United Kingdom, France and Italy formed the Stresa Front in April 1935 in order to contain Germany, a key step towards military globalization; however, that June, the United Kingdom made an independent naval agreement with Germany, easing prior restrictions. The Soviet Union, concerned by Germany's goals of capturing vast areas of Eastern Europe, drafted a treaty of mutual assistance with France. Before taking effect though, the Franco-Soviet pact was required to go through the bureaucracy of the League of Nations, which rendered it essentially toothless. The United States, concerned with events in Europe and Asia, passed the Neutrality Act in August of the same year.\n\nHitler defied the Versailles and Locarno treaties by remilitarising the Rhineland in March 1936, encountering little opposition due to appeasement. In October 1936, Germany and Italy formed the Rome–Berlin Axis. A month later, Germany and Japan signed the Anti-Comintern Pact, which Italy would join in the following year.\n\nThe Kuomintang (KMT) party in China launched a unification campaign against regional warlords and nominally unified China in the mid-1920s, but was soon embroiled in a civil war against its former Chinese Communist Party allies and new regional warlords. In 1931, an increasingly militaristic Empire of Japan, which had long sought influence in China as the first step of what its government saw as the country's right to rule Asia, used the Mukden Incident as a pretext to launch an invasion of Manchuria and establish the puppet state of Manchukuo.\n\nToo weak to resist Japan, China appealed to the League of Nations for help. Japan withdrew from the League of Nations after being condemned for its incursion into Manchuria. The two nations then fought several battles, in Shanghai, Rehe and Hebei, until the Tanggu Truce was signed in 1933. Thereafter, Chinese volunteer forces continued the resistance to Japanese aggression in Manchuria, and Chahar and Suiyuan. After the 1936 Xi'an Incident, the Kuomintang and communist forces agreed on a ceasefire to present a united front to oppose Japan.\n\nThe Second Italo–Ethiopian War was a brief colonial war that began in October 1935 and ended in May 1936. The war began with the invasion of the Ethiopian Empire (also known as Abyssinia) by the armed forces of the Kingdom of Italy (\"Regno d'Italia\"), which was launched from Italian Somaliland and Eritrea. The war resulted in the military occupation of Ethiopia and its annexation into the newly created colony of Italian East Africa (\"Africa Orientale Italiana\", or AOI); in addition it exposed the weakness of the League of Nations as a force to preserve peace. Both Italy and Ethiopia were member nations, but the League did little when the former clearly violated Article X of the League's Covenant. The United Kingdom and France supported imposing sanctions on Italy for the invasion, but they were not fully enforced and failed to end the Italian invasion. Italy subsequently dropped its objections to Germany's goal of absorbing Austria.\n\nWhen civil war broke out in Spain, Hitler and Mussolini lent military support to the Nationalist rebels, led by General Francisco Franco. The Soviet Union supported the existing government, the Spanish Republic. Over 30,000 foreign volunteers, known as the International Brigades, also fought against the Nationalists. Both Germany and the Soviet Union used this proxy war as an opportunity to test in combat their most advanced weapons and tactics. The Nationalists won the civil war in April 1939; Franco, now dictator, remained officially neutral during World War II but generally favoured the Axis. His greatest collaboration with Germany was the sending of volunteers to fight on the Eastern Front.\n\nIn July 1937, Japan captured the former Chinese imperial capital of Peking after instigating the Marco Polo Bridge Incident, which culminated in the Japanese campaign to invade all of China. The Soviets quickly signed a non-aggression pact with China to lend materiel support, effectively ending China's prior co-operation with Germany. From September to November, the Japanese attacked Taiyuan, engaged the Kuomintang Army around Xinkou, and fought Communist forces in Pingxingguan. Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek deployed his best army to defend Shanghai, but, after three months of fighting, Shanghai fell. The Japanese continued to push the Chinese forces back, capturing the capital Nanking in December 1937. After the fall of Nanking, tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of Chinese civilians and disarmed combatants were murdered by the Japanese.\n\nIn March 1938, Nationalist Chinese forces won their first major victory at Taierzhuang but then the city of Xuzhou was taken by Japanese in May. In June 1938, Chinese forces stalled the Japanese advance by flooding the Yellow River; this manoeuvre bought time for the Chinese to prepare their defences at Wuhan, but the city was taken by October. Japanese military victories did not bring about the collapse of Chinese resistance that Japan had hoped to achieve; instead the Chinese government relocated inland to Chongqing and continued the war.\n\nIn the mid-to-late 1930s, Japanese forces in Manchukuo had sporadic border clashes with the Soviet Union and Mongolia. The Japanese doctrine of Hokushin-ron, which emphasised Japan's expansion northward, was favoured by the Imperial Army during this time. With the Japanese defeat at Khalkin Gol in 1939, the ongoing Second Sino-Japanese War and ally Nazi Germany pursuing neutrality with the Soviets, this policy would prove difficult to maintain. Japan and the Soviet Union eventually signed a Neutrality Pact in April 1941, and Japan adopted the doctrine of Nanshin-ron, promoted by the Navy, which took its focus southward, eventually leading to its war with the United States and the Western Allies.\n\nIn Europe, Germany and Italy were becoming more aggressive. In March 1938, Germany annexed Austria, again provoking little response from other European powers. Encouraged, Hitler began pressing German claims on the Sudetenland, an area of Czechoslovakia with a predominantly ethnic German population. Soon the United Kingdom and France followed the counsel of British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and conceded this territory to Germany in the Munich Agreement, which was made against the wishes of the Czechoslovak government, in exchange for a promise of no further territorial demands. Soon afterwards, Germany and Italy forced Czechoslovakia to cede additional territory to Hungary, and Poland annexed Czechoslovakia's Zaolzie region.\n\nAlthough all of Germany's stated demands had been satisfied by the agreement, privately Hitler was furious that British interference had prevented him from seizing all of Czechoslovakia in one operation. In subsequent speeches Hitler attacked British and Jewish \"war-mongers\" and in January 1939 secretly ordered a major build-up of the German navy to challenge British naval supremacy. In March 1939, Germany invaded the remainder of Czechoslovakia and subsequently split it into the German Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia and a pro-German client state, the Slovak Republic. Hitler also delivered the 20 March 1939 ultimatum to Lithuania, forcing the concession of the Klaipėda Region.\n\nGreatly alarmed and with Hitler making further demands on the Free City of Danzig, the United Kingdom and France guaranteed their support for Polish independence; when Italy conquered Albania in April 1939, the same guarantee was extended to Romania and Greece. Shortly after the Franco-British pledge to Poland, Germany and Italy formalised their own alliance with the Pact of Steel. Hitler accused the United Kingdom and Poland of trying to \"encircle\" Germany and renounced the Anglo-German Naval Agreement and the German–Polish Non-Aggression Pact.\n\nThe situation reached a general crisis in late August as German troops continued to mobilise against the Polish border. In August 23, when tripartite negotiations about a military alliance between France, the United Kingdom and Soviet Union stalled, the Soviet Union signed a non-aggression pact with Germany. This pact had a secret protocol that defined German and Soviet \"spheres of influence\" (western Poland and Lithuania for Germany; eastern Poland, Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Bessarabia for the Soviet Union), and raised the question of continuing Polish independence. The pact neutralized the possibility of Soviet opposition to a campaign against Poland and assured that Germany would not have to face the prospect of a two-front war, as it had in World War I. Immediately after that, Hitler ordered the attack to proceed on 26 August, but upon hearing that the United Kingdom had concluded a formal mutual assistance pact with Poland, and that Italy would maintain neutrality, he decided to delay it.\n\nIn response to British requests for direct negotiations to avoid war, Germany made demands on Poland, which only served as a pretext to worsen relations. On 29 August, Hitler demanded that a Polish plenipotentiary immediately travel to Berlin to negotiate the handover of Danzig, and to allow a plebiscite in the Polish Corridor in which the German minority would vote on secession. The Poles refused to comply with the German demands, and on the night of 30–31 August in a violent meeting with the British ambassador Neville Henderson, Ribbentrop declared that Germany considered its claims rejected.\n\nOn 1 September 1939, Germany invaded Poland after having staged several false flag border incidents as a pretext to initiate the attack. The Battle of Westerplatte is often described as the first battle of the war. The United Kingdom responded with an ultimatum to Germany to cease military operations, and on 3 September, after the ultimatum was ignored, France, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand declared war on Germany. This alliance was joined by South Africa (6 September) and Canada (10 September). The alliance provided no direct military support to Poland, outside of a cautious French probe into the Saarland. The Western Allies also began a naval blockade of Germany, which aimed to damage the country's economy and war effort. Germany responded by ordering U-boat warfare against Allied merchant and warships, which would later escalate into the Battle of the Atlantic.\n\nOn 8 September, German troops reached the suburbs of Warsaw. The Polish counter offensive to the west halted the German advance for several days, but it was outflanked and encircled by the \"Wehrmacht\". Remnants of the Polish army broke through to besieged Warsaw. On 17 September 1939, after signing a cease-fire with Japan, the Soviets invaded Eastern Poland under a pretext that the Polish state had ostensibly ceased to exist. On 27 September, the Warsaw garrison surrendered to the Germans, and the last large operational unit of the Polish Army surrendered on 6 October. Despite the military defeat, the Polish government never surrendered. A significant part of Polish military personnel evacuated to Romania and the Baltic countries; many of them would fight against the Axis in other theatres of the war. The Polish government in exile also established an Underground State and a resistance movement; in particular the Polish partisan Home Army would grow to become one of the war's largest resistance movements.\n\nGermany annexed the western and occupied the central part of Poland, and the Soviet Union annexed its eastern part; small shares of Polish territory were transferred to Lithuania and Slovakia. On 6 October, Hitler made a public peace overture to the United Kingdom and France, but said that the future of Poland was to be determined exclusively by Germany and the Soviet Union. The proposal was rejected, and Hitler ordered an immediate offensive against France, which would be postponed until the spring of 1940 due to bad weather.\n\nThe Soviet Union forced the Baltic countries—Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the states that were in the Soviet \"sphere of influence\" under the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact—to sign \"mutual assistance pacts\" that stipulated stationing Soviet troops in these countries. Soon after, significant Soviet military contingents were moved there. Finland refused to sign a similar pact and rejected ceding part of its territory to the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union invaded Finland in November 1939, and the Soviet Union was expelled from the League of Nations. Despite overwhelming numerical superiority, Soviet military success was modest, and the Finno-Soviet war ended in March 1940 with minimal Finnish concessions.\n\nIn June 1940, the Soviet Union forcibly annexed Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and the disputed Romanian regions of Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina and Hertza. Meanwhile, Nazi-Soviet political rapprochement and economic co-operation gradually stalled, and both states began preparations for war.\n\nIn April 1940, Germany invaded Denmark and Norway to protect shipments of iron ore from Sweden, which the Allies were attempting to cut off. Denmark capitulated after a few hours, and Norway was conquered within two months despite Allied support. British discontent over the Norwegian campaign led to the appointment of Winston Churchill as Prime Minister on 10May 1940.\n\nOn the same day, Germany launched an offensive against France. To circumvent the strong Maginot Line fortifications on the Franco-German border, Germany directed its attack at the neutral nations of Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg. The Germans carried out a flanking manoeuvre through the Ardennes region, which was mistakenly perceived by Allies as an impenetrable natural barrier against armoured vehicles. By successfully implementing new blitzkrieg tactics, the \"Wehrmacht\" rapidly advanced to the Channel and cut off the Allied forces in Belgium, trapping the bulk of the Allied armies in a cauldron on the Franco-Belgian border near Lille. The United Kingdom was able to evacuate a significant number of Allied troops from the continent by early June, although abandoning almost all of their equipment.\n\nOn 10 June, Italy invaded France, declaring war on both France and the United Kingdom. The Germans turned south against the weakened French army, and Paris fell to them on 14June. Eight days later France signed an armistice with Germany; it was divided into German and Italian occupation zones, and an unoccupied rump state under the Vichy Regime, which, though officially neutral, was generally aligned with Germany. France kept its fleet, which the United Kingdom attacked on 3July in an attempt to prevent its seizure by Germany.\n\nThe Battle of Britain began in early July with Luftwaffe attacks on shipping and harbours. The United Kingdom rejected Hitler's ultimatum, and the German air superiority campaign started in August but failed to defeat RAF Fighter Command. Due to this the proposed German invasion of Britain was postponed indefinitely on 17September. The German strategic bombing offensive intensified with night attacks on London and other cities in the Blitz, but failed to significantly disrupt the British war effort and largely ended in May 1941.\n\nUsing newly captured French ports, the German Navy enjoyed success against an over-extended Royal Navy, using U-boats against British shipping in the Atlantic. The British Home Fleet scored a significant victory on 27May 1941 by sinking the German battleship \"Bismarck\".\n\nIn November 1939, the United States was taking measures to assist China and the Western Allies, and amended the Neutrality Act to allow \"cash and carry\" purchases by the Allies. In 1940, following the German capture of Paris, the size of the United States Navy was significantly increased. In September the United States further agreed to a trade of American destroyers for British bases. Still, a large majority of the American public continued to oppose any direct military intervention in the conflict well into 1941. In December 1940 Roosevelt accused Hitler of planning world conquest and ruled out any negotiations as useless, calling for the United States to become an \"arsenal of democracy\" and promoting Lend-Lease programmes of aid to support the British war effort. The United States started strategic planning to prepare for a full-scale offensive against Germany.\n\nAt the end of September 1940, the Tripartite Pact formally united Japan, Italy and Germany as the Axis Powers. The Tripartite Pact stipulated that any country, with the exception of the Soviet Union, which attacked any Axis Power would be forced to go to war against all three. The Axis expanded in November 1940 when Hungary, Slovakia and Romania joined. Romania and Hungary would make major contributions to the Axis war against the Soviet Union, in Romania's case partially to recapture territory ceded to the Soviet Union.\n\nIn early June 1940 the Italian \"Regia aeronautica\" attacked and besieged Malta, a British possession. In late summer through early autumn Italy conquered British Somaliland and made an incursion into British-held Egypt. In October Italy attacked Greece, but the attack was repulsed with heavy Italian casualties; the campaign ended within days with minor territorial changes. Germany started preparation for an invasion of the Balkans to assist Italy, to prevent the British from gaining a foothold there, which would be a potential threat for Romanian oil fields, and to strike against the British dominance of the Mediterranean.\n\nIn December 1940, British Empire forces began counter-offensives against Italian forces in Egypt and Italian East Africa. The offensives were highly successful; by early February 1941 Italy had lost control of eastern Libya, and large numbers of Italian troops had been taken prisoner. The Italian Navy also suffered significant defeats, with the Royal Navy putting three Italian battleships out of commission by a carrier attack at Taranto and neutralising several more warships at the Battle of Cape Matapan.\n\nItalian defeats prompted Germany to deploy an expeditionary force to North Africa, and at the end of March 1941 Rommel's Afrika Korps launched an offensive which drove back the Commonwealth forces. In under a month, Axis forces advanced to western Egypt and besieged the port of Tobruk.\n\nBy late March 1941 Bulgaria and Yugoslavia signed the Tripartite Pact. However, the Yugoslav government was overthrown two days later by pro-British nationalists. Germany responded with simultaneous invasions of both Yugoslavia and Greece, commencing on 6 April 1941; both nations were forced to surrender within the month. The airborne invasion of the Greek island of Crete at the end of May completed the German conquest of the Balkans. Although the Axis victory was swift, bitter and large-scale partisan warfare subsequently broke out against the Axis occupation of Yugoslavia, which continued until the end of the war.\n\nIn the Middle East, in May Commonwealth forces quashed an uprising in Iraq which had been supported by German aircraft from bases within Vichy-controlled Syria. Between June and July they invaded and occupied the French possessions Syria and Lebanon, with the assistance of the Free French.\n\nWith the situation in Europe and Asia relatively stable, Germany, Japan, and the Soviet Union made preparations. With the Soviets wary of mounting tensions with Germany and the Japanese planning to take advantage of the European War by seizing resource-rich European possessions in Southeast Asia, the two powers signed the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact in April 1941. By contrast, the Germans were steadily making preparations for an attack on the Soviet Union, massing forces on the Soviet border.\n\nHitler believed that the United Kingdom's refusal to end the war was based on the hope that the United States and the Soviet Union would enter the war against Germany sooner or later. He therefore decided to try to strengthen Germany's relations with the Soviets, or failing that to attack and eliminate them as a factor. In November 1940, negotiations took place to determine if the Soviet Union would join the Tripartite Pact. The Soviets showed some interest, but asked for concessions from Finland, Bulgaria, Turkey, and Japan that Germany considered unacceptable. On 18 December 1940, Hitler issued the directive to prepare for an invasion of the Soviet Union.\n\nOn 22 June 1941, Germany, supported by Italy and Romania, invaded the Soviet Union in Operation Barbarossa, with Germany accusing the Soviets of plotting against them. They were joined shortly by Finland and Hungary. The primary targets of this surprise offensive were the Baltic region, Moscow and Ukraine, with the ultimate goal of ending the 1941 campaign near the Arkhangelsk-Astrakhan line, from the Caspian to the White Seas. Hitler's objectives were to eliminate the Soviet Union as a military power, exterminate Communism, generate \"Lebensraum\" (\"living space\") by dispossessing the native population and guarantee access to the strategic resources needed to defeat Germany's remaining rivals.\n\nAlthough the Red Army was preparing for strategic counter-offensives before the war, \"Barbarossa\" forced the Soviet supreme command to adopt a strategic defence. During the summer, the Axis made significant gains into Soviet territory, inflicting immense losses in both personnel and materiel. By the middle of August, however, the German Army High Command decided to suspend the offensive of a considerably depleted Army Group Centre, and to divert the 2nd Panzer Group to reinforce troops advancing towards central Ukraine and Leningrad. The Kiev offensive was overwhelmingly successful, resulting in encirclement and elimination of four Soviet armies, and made possible further advance into Crimea and industrially developed Eastern Ukraine (the First Battle of Kharkov).\n\nThe diversion of three quarters of the Axis troops and the majority of their air forces from France and the central Mediterranean to the Eastern Front prompted the United Kingdom to reconsider its grand strategy. In July, the UK and the Soviet Union formed a military alliance against Germany The British and Soviets invaded neutral Iran to secure the Persian Corridor and Iran's oil fields. In August, the United Kingdom and the United States jointly issued the Atlantic Charter.\n\nBy October Axis operational objectives in Ukraine and the Baltic region were achieved, with only the sieges of Leningrad and Sevastopol continuing. A major offensive against Moscow was renewed; after two months of fierce battles in increasingly harsh weather the German army almost reached the outer suburbs of Moscow, where the exhausted troops were forced to suspend their offensive. Large territorial gains were made by Axis forces, but their campaign had failed to achieve its main objectives: two key cities remained in Soviet hands, the Soviet capability to resist was not broken, and the Soviet Union retained a considerable part of its military potential. The \"blitzkrieg\" phase of the war in Europe had ended.\n\nBy early December, freshly mobilised reserves allowed the Soviets to achieve numerical parity with Axis troops. This, as well as intelligence data which established that a minimal number of Soviet troops in the East would be sufficient to deter any attack by the Japanese Kwantung Army, allowed the Soviets to begin a massive counter-offensive that started on 5 December all along the front and pushed German troops west.\n\nIn 1939, the United States had renounced its trade treaty with Japan, and beginning with an aviation gasoline ban in July 1940, Japan became subject to increasing economic pressure. During this time, Japan launched its first attack against Changsha, a strategically important Chinese city, but was repulsed by late September. Despite several offensives by both sides, the war between China and Japan was stalemated by 1940. To increase pressure on China by blocking supply routes, and to better position Japanese forces in the event of a war with the Western powers, Japan invaded and occupied northern Indochina. Afterwards, the United States embargoed iron, steel and mechanical parts against Japan.\n\nChinese nationalist forces launched a large-scale counter-offensive in early 1940. In August, Chinese communists launched an offensive in Central China; in retaliation, Japan instituted harsh measures in occupied areas to reduce human and material resources for the communists. Continued antipathy between Chinese communist and nationalist forces culminated in armed clashes in January 1941, effectively ending their co-operation. In March, the Japanese 11th army attacked the headquarters of the Chinese 19th army but was repulsed during Battle of Shanggao. In September, Japan attempted to take the city of Changsha again and clashed with Chinese nationalist forces.\n\nGerman successes in Europe encouraged Japan to increase pressure on European governments in Southeast Asia. The Dutch government agreed to provide Japan some oil supplies from the Dutch East Indies, but negotiations for additional access to their resources ended in failure in June 1941. In July 1941 Japan sent troops to southern Indochina, thus threatening British and Dutch possessions in the Far East. The United States, United Kingdom and other Western governments reacted to this move with a freeze on Japanese assets and a total oil embargo. At the same time, Japan was planning an invasion of the Soviet Far East, intending to capitalise off the German invasion in the west, but abandoned the operation after the sanctions.\n\nSince early 1941 the United States and Japan had been engaged in negotiations in an attempt to improve their strained relations and end the war in China. During these negotiations Japan advanced a number of proposals which were dismissed by the Americans as inadequate. At the same time the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands engaged in secret discussions for the joint defence of their territories, in the event of a Japanese attack against any of them. Roosevelt reinforced the Philippines (an American protectorate scheduled for independence in 1946) and warned Japan that the United States would react to Japanese attacks against any \"neighboring countries\".\n\nFrustrated at the lack of progress and feeling the pinch of the American-British-Dutch sanctions, Japan prepared for war. On 20 November a new government under Hideki Tojo presented an interim proposal as its final offer. It called for the end of American aid to China and for lifting the embargo on the supply of oil and other resources to Japan. In exchange Japan promised not to launch any attacks in Southeast Asia and to withdraw its forces from southern Indochina. The American counter-proposal of 26 November required that Japan evacuate all of China without conditions and conclude non-aggression pacts with all Pacific powers. That meant Japan was essentially forced to choose between abandoning its ambitions in China, or seizing the natural resources it needed in the Dutch East Indies by force; the Japanese military did not consider the former an option, and many officers considered the oil embargo an unspoken declaration of war.\n\nJapan planned to rapidly seize European colonies in Asia to create a large defensive perimeter stretching into the Central Pacific. The Japanese would then be free to exploit the resources of Southeast Asia while exhausting the over-stretched Allies by fighting a defensive war. To prevent American intervention while securing the perimeter, it was further planned to neutralise the United States Pacific Fleet and the American military presence in the Philippines from the outset. On 7 December 1941 (8 December in Asian time zones), Japan attacked British and American holdings with near-simultaneous offensives against Southeast Asia and the Central Pacific. These included an attack on the American fleets at Pearl Harbor and the Philippines, landings in Thailand and Malaya, and the Battle of Hong Kong.\n\nThese attacks led the United States, United Kingdom, China, Australia and several other states to formally declare war on Japan, whereas the Soviet Union, being heavily involved in large-scale hostilities with European Axis countries, maintained its neutrality agreement with Japan. Germany, followed by the other Axis states, declared war on the United States in solidarity with Japan, citing as justification the American attacks on German war vessels that had been ordered by Roosevelt.\n\nOn 1 January 1942, the Allied Big Four—the Soviet Union, China, the United Kingdom and the United States—and 22 smaller or exiled governments issued the Declaration by United Nations, thereby affirming the Atlantic Charter, and agreeing to not to sign a separate peace with the Axis powers.\n\nDuring 1942, Allied officials debated on the appropriate grand strategy to pursue. All agreed that defeating Germany was the primary objective. The Americans favoured a straightforward, large-scale attack on Germany through France. The Soviets were also demanding a second front. The British, on the other hand, argued that military operations should target peripheral areas to wear out German strength, leading to increasing demoralisation, and bolster resistance forces. Germany itself would be subject to a heavy bombing campaign. An offensive against Germany would then be launched primarily by Allied armour without using large-scale armies. Eventually, the British persuaded the Americans that a landing in France was infeasible in 1942 and they should instead focus on driving the Axis out of North Africa.\n\nAt the Casablanca Conference in early 1943, the Allies reiterated the statements issued in the 1942 Declaration by the United Nations, and demanded the unconditional surrender of their enemies. The British and Americans agreed to continue to press the initiative in the Mediterranean by invading Sicily to fully secure the Mediterranean supply routes. Although the British argued for further operations in the Balkans to bring Turkey into the war, in May 1943, the Americans extracted a British commitment to limit Allied operations in the Mediterranean to an invasion of the Italian mainland and to invade France in 1944.\n\nBy the end of April 1942, Japan and its ally Thailand had almost fully conquered Burma, Malaya, the Dutch East Indies, Singapore, and Rabaul, inflicting severe losses on Allied troops and taking a large number of prisoners. Despite stubborn resistance by Filipino and US forces, the Philippine Commonwealth was eventually captured in May 1942, forcing its government into exile. On 16 April, in Burma, 7,000 British soldiers were encircled by the Japanese 33rd Division during the Battle of Yenangyaung and rescued by the Chinese 38th Division. Japanese forces also achieved naval victories in the South China Sea, Java Sea and Indian Ocean, and bombed the Allied naval base at Darwin, Australia. In January 1942, the only Allied success against Japan was a Chinese victory at Changsha. These easy victories over unprepared US and European opponents left Japan overconfident, as well as overextended.\n\nIn early May 1942, Japan initiated operations to capture Port Moresby by amphibious assault and thus sever communications and supply lines between the United States and Australia. The planned invasion was thwarted when an Allied task force, centred on two American fleet carriers, fought Japanese naval forces to a draw in the Battle of the Coral Sea. Japan's next plan, motivated by the earlier Doolittle Raid, was to seize Midway Atoll and lure American carriers into battle to be eliminated; as a diversion, Japan would also send forces to occupy the Aleutian Islands in Alaska. In mid-May, Japan started the Zhejiang-Jiangxi Campaign in China, with the goal of inflicting retribution on the Chinese who aided the surviving American airmen in the Doolittle Raid by destroying air bases and fighting against the Chinese 23rd and 32nd Army Groups. In early June, Japan put its operations into action, but the Americans, having broken Japanese naval codes in late May, were fully aware of the plans and order of battle, and used this knowledge to achieve a decisive victory at Midway over the Imperial Japanese Navy.\n\nWith its capacity for aggressive action greatly diminished as a result of the Midway battle, Japan chose to focus on a belated attempt to capture Port Moresby by an overland campaign in the Territory of Papua. The Americans planned a counter-attack against Japanese positions in the southern Solomon Islands, primarily Guadalcanal, as a first step towards capturing Rabaul, the main Japanese base in Southeast Asia.\n\nBoth plans started in July, but by mid-September, the Battle for Guadalcanal took priority for the Japanese, and troops in New Guinea were ordered to withdraw from the Port Moresby area to the northern part of the island, where they faced Australian and United States troops in the Battle of Buna-Gona. Guadalcanal soon became a focal point for both sides with heavy commitments of troops and ships in the battle for Guadalcanal. By the start of 1943, the Japanese were defeated on the island and withdrew their troops. In Burma, Commonwealth forces mounted two operations. The first, an offensive into the Arakan region in late 1942, went disastrously, forcing a retreat back to India by May 1943. The second was the insertion of irregular forces behind Japanese front-lines in February which, by the end of April, had achieved mixed results.\n\nDespite considerable losses, in early 1942 Germany and its allies stopped a major Soviet offensive in central and southern Russia, keeping most territorial gains they had achieved during the previous year. In May the Germans defeated Soviet offensives in the Kerch Peninsula and at Kharkov, and then launched their main summer offensive against southern Russia in June 1942, to seize the oil fields of the Caucasus and occupy Kuban steppe, while maintaining positions on the northern and central areas of the front. The Germans split Army Group South into two groups: Army Group A advanced to the lower Don River and struck south-east to the Caucasus, while Army Group B headed towards the Volga River. The Soviets decided to make their stand at Stalingrad on the Volga.\n\nBy mid-November, the Germans had nearly taken Stalingrad in bitter street fighting. The Soviets began their second winter counter-offensive, starting with an encirclement of German forces at Stalingrad, and an assault on the Rzhev salient near Moscow, though the latter failed disastrously. By early February 1943, the German Army had taken tremendous losses; German troops at Stalingrad had been forced to surrender, and the front-line had been pushed back beyond its position before the summer offensive. In mid-February, after the Soviet push had tapered off, the Germans launched another attack on Kharkov, creating a salient in their front line around the Soviet city of Kursk.\n\nExploiting poor American naval command decisions, the German navy ravaged Allied shipping off the American Atlantic coast. By November 1941, Commonwealth forces had launched a counter-offensive, Operation Crusader, in North Africa, and reclaimed all the gains the Germans and Italians had made. In North Africa, the Germans launched an offensive in January, pushing the British back to positions at the Gazala Line by early February, followed by a temporary lull in combat which Germany used to prepare for their upcoming offensives. Concerns the Japanese might use bases in Vichy-held Madagascar caused the British to invade the island in early May 1942. An Axis offensive in Libya forced an Allied retreat deep inside Egypt until Axis forces were stopped at El Alamein. On the Continent, raids of Allied commandos on strategic targets, culminating in the disastrous Dieppe Raid, demonstrated the Western Allies' inability to launch an invasion of continental Europe without much better preparation, equipment, and operational security.\n\nIn August 1942, the Allies succeeded in repelling a second attack against El Alamein and, at a high cost, managed to deliver desperately needed supplies to the besieged Malta. A few months later, the Allies commenced an attack of their own in Egypt, dislodging the Axis forces and beginning a drive west across Libya. This attack was followed up shortly after by Anglo-American landings in French North Africa, which resulted in the region joining the Allies. Hitler responded to the French colony's defection by ordering the occupation of Vichy France; although Vichy forces did not resist this violation of the armistice, they managed to scuttle their fleet to prevent its capture by German forces. The Axis forces in Africa withdrew into Tunisia, which was conquered by the Allies in May 1943.\n\nIn June 1943 the British and Americans began a strategic bombing campaign against Germany with a goal to disrupt the war economy, reduce morale, and \"de-house\" the civilian population. The firebombing of Hamburg was among the first attacks in this campaign, inflicting significant casualties and considerable losses on infrastructure of this important industrial center.\n\nAfter the Guadalcanal Campaign, the Allies initiated several operations against Japan in the Pacific. In May 1943, Canadian and US forces were sent to eliminate Japanese forces from the Aleutians. Soon after, the United States, with support from Australian and New Zealand forces, began major operations to isolate Rabaul by capturing surrounding islands, and breach the Japanese Central Pacific perimeter at the Gilbert and Marshall Islands. By the end of March 1944, the Allies had completed both of these objectives, and had also neutralised the major Japanese base at Truk in the Caroline Islands. In April, the Allies launched an operation to retake Western New Guinea.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, both the Germans and the Soviets spent the spring and early summer of 1943 preparing for large offensives in central Russia. On 4 July 1943, Germany attacked Soviet forces around the Kursk Bulge. Within a week, German forces had exhausted themselves against the Soviets' deeply echeloned and well-constructed defences, and for the first time in the war Hitler cancelled the operation before it had achieved tactical or operational success. This decision was partially affected by the Western Allies' invasion of Sicily launched on 9 July, which, combined with previous Italian failures, resulted in the ousting and arrest of Mussolini later that month.\n\nOn 12 July 1943, the Soviets launched their own counter-offensives, thereby dispelling any chance of German victory or even stalemate in the east. The Soviet victory at Kursk marked the end of German superiority, giving the Soviet Union the initiative on the Eastern Front. The Germans tried to stabilise their eastern front along the hastily fortified Panther–Wotan line, but the Soviets broke through it at Smolensk and by the Lower Dnieper Offensives.\n\nOn 3 September 1943, the Western Allies invaded the Italian mainland, following Italy's armistice with the Allies. Germany with the help of fascists responded by disarming Italian forces that were in many places without superior orders, seizing military control of Italian areas, and creating a series of defensive lines. German special forces then rescued Mussolini, who then soon established a new client state in German-occupied Italy named the Italian Social Republic, causing an Italian civil war. The Western Allies fought through several lines until reaching the main German defensive line in mid-November.\n\nGerman operations in the Atlantic also suffered. By May 1943, as Allied counter-measures became increasingly effective, the resulting sizeable German submarine losses forced a temporary halt of the German Atlantic naval campaign. In November 1943, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill met with Chiang Kai-shek in Cairo and then with Joseph Stalin in Tehran. The former conference determined the post-war return of Japanese territory and the military planning for the Burma Campaign, while the latter included agreement that the Western Allies would invade Europe in 1944 and that the Soviet Union would declare war on Japan within three months of Germany's defeat.\n\nFrom November 1943, during the seven-week Battle of Changde, the Chinese forced Japan to fight a costly war of attrition, while awaiting Allied relief. In January 1944, the Allies launched a series of attacks in Italy against the line at Monte Cassino and tried to outflank it with landings at Anzio.\n\nOn 27 January 1944, Soviet troops launched a major offensive that expelled German forces from the Leningrad region, thereby ending the longest and most lethal siege in history. The following Soviet offensive was halted on the pre-war Estonian border by the German Army Group North aided by Estonians hoping to re-establish national independence. This delay slowed subsequent Soviet operations in the Baltic Sea region. By late May 1944, the Soviets had liberated Crimea, largely expelled Axis forces from Ukraine, and made incursions into Romania, which were repulsed by the Axis troops. The Allied offensives in Italy had succeeded and, at the expense of allowing several German divisions to retreat, on 4 June, Rome was captured.\nThe Allies had mixed success in mainland Asia. In March 1944, the Japanese launched the first of two invasions, an operation against British positions in Assam, India, and soon besieged Commonwealth positions at Imphal and Kohima. In May 1944, British forces mounted a counter-offensive that drove Japanese troops back to Burma, and Chinese forces that had invaded northern Burma in late 1943 besieged Japanese troops in Myitkyina. The second Japanese invasion of China aimed to destroy China's main fighting forces, secure railways between Japanese-held territory and capture Allied airfields. By June, the Japanese had conquered the province of Henan and begun a new attack on Changsha in the Hunan province.\n\nOn 6 June 1944 (known as D-Day), after three years of Soviet pressure, the Western Allies invaded northern France. After reassigning several Allied divisions from Italy, they also attacked southern France. These landings were successful, and led to the defeat of the German Army units in France. Paris was liberated on 25 August by the local resistance assisted by the Free French Forces, both led by General Charles de Gaulle, and the Western Allies continued to push back German forces in western Europe during the latter part of the year. An attempt to advance into northern Germany spearheaded by a major airborne operation in the Netherlands failed. After that, the Western Allies slowly pushed into Germany, but failed to cross the Ruhr river in a large offensive. In Italy, Allied advance also slowed due to the last major German defensive line.\n\nOn 22 June, the Soviets launched a strategic offensive in Belarus (\"Operation Bagration\") that destroyed the German Army Group Centre almost completely. Soon after that, another Soviet strategic offensive forced German troops from Western Ukraine and Eastern Poland. The Soviet advance prompted resistance forces in Poland to initiate several uprisings against the German occupation. However, the largest of these, in Warsaw and a national uprising in Slovakia, did not receive Soviet support and were subsequently suppressed by the Germans. The Red Army's strategic offensive in eastern Romania cut off and destroyed the considerable German troops there and triggered a successful coup d'état in Romania and in Bulgaria, followed by those countries' shift to the Allied side.\n\nIn September 1944, Soviet troops advanced into Yugoslavia and forced the rapid withdrawal of German Army Groups E and F in Greece, Albania and Yugoslavia to rescue them from being cut off. By this point, the Communist-led Partisans under Marshal Josip Broz Tito, who had led an increasingly successful guerrilla campaign against the occupation since 1941, controlled much of the territory of Yugoslavia and engaged in delaying efforts against German forces further south. In northern Serbia, the Red Army, with limited support from Bulgarian forces, assisted the Partisans in a joint liberation of the capital city of Belgrade on 20 October. A few days later, the Soviets launched a massive assault against German-occupied Hungary that lasted until the fall of Budapest in February 1945. Unlike impressive Soviet victories in the Balkans, bitter Finnish resistance to the Soviet offensive in the Karelian Isthmus denied the Soviets occupation of Finland and led to a Soviet-Finnish armistice on relatively mild conditions, although Finland was forced to fight their former allies.\n\nBy the start of July 1944, Commonwealth forces in Southeast Asia had repelled the Japanese sieges in Assam, pushing the Japanese back to the Chindwin River while the Chinese captured Myitkyina. In September 1944, Chinese force captured the Mount Song to reopen the Burma Road. In China, the Japanese had more successes, having finally captured Changsha in mid-June and the city of Hengyang by early August. Soon after, they invaded the province of Guangxi, winning major engagements against Chinese forces at Guilin and Liuzhou by the end of November and successfully linking up their forces in China and Indochina by mid-December.\n\nIn the Pacific, US forces continued to press back the Japanese perimeter. In mid-June 1944, they began their offensive against the Mariana and Palau islands, and decisively defeated Japanese forces in the Battle of the Philippine Sea. These defeats led to the resignation of the Japanese Prime Minister, Hideki Tojo, and provided the United States with air bases to launch intensive heavy bomber attacks on the Japanese home islands. In late October, American forces invaded the Filipino island of Leyte; soon after, Allied naval forces scored another large victory in the Battle of Leyte Gulf, one of the largest naval battles in history.\n\nOn 16 December 1944, Germany made a last attempt on the Western Front by using most of its remaining reserves to launch a massive counter-offensive in the Ardennes and along the French–German border to split the Western Allies, encircle large portions of Western Allied troops and capture their primary supply port at Antwerp to prompt a political settlement. By January, the offensive had been repulsed with no strategic objectives fulfilled. In Italy, the Western Allies remained stalemated at the German defensive line. In mid-January 1945, the Soviets and Poles attacked in Poland, pushing from the Vistula to the Oder river in Germany, and overran East Prussia. On 4 February, Soviet, British and US leaders met for the Yalta Conference. They agreed on the occupation of post-war Germany, and on when the Soviet Union would join the war against Japan.\n\nIn February, the Soviets entered Silesia and Pomerania, while Western Allies entered western Germany and closed to the Rhine river. By March, the Western Allies crossed the Rhine north and south of the Ruhr, encircling the German Army Group B. In early March, in attempts to protect her last oil reserves in Hungary and to retake Budapest, Germany launched the last major offensive, that was directed against Soviet troops near the lake Balaton. It two weeks, the offensive had been repulsed, the Soviets advanced to Vienna, and captured the city. In early April, Soviet troops captured Königsberg, while the Western Allies finally pushed forward in Italy and swept across western Germany capturing Hamburg and Nuremberg. American and Soviet forces met at the Elbe river on 25 April, leaving several unoccupied pockets in southern Germany and around Berlin.\n\nSoviet and Polish forces stormed and captured Berlin in late April. In Italy, German forces surrendered on 29 April. On 30 April, the Reichstag was captured, signalling the military defeat of Nazi Germany, Berlin garrison surrendered on 2 May.\n\nSeveral changes in leadership occurred during this period. On 12 April, President Roosevelt died and was succeeded by Harry S. Truman. Benito Mussolini was killed by Italian partisans on 28 April. Two days later, Hitler committed suicide in besieged Berlin, and he was succeeded by Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz.\n\nTotal and unconditional surrender was signed on 7 and 8 May, to be effective by the end of 8 May. German Army Group Centre resisted in Prague until 11 May.\n\nIn the Pacific theatre, American forces accompanied by the forces of the Philippine Commonwealth advanced in the Philippines, clearing Leyte by the end of April 1945. They landed on Luzon in January 1945 and recaptured Manila in March. Fighting continued on Luzon, Mindanao, and other islands of the Philippines until the end of the war. Meanwhile, the United States Army Air Forces launched a massive firebombing campaign of strategic cities in Japan in an effort to destroy Japanese war industry and civilian morale. A devastating bombing raid of 9–10 March was the deadliest conventional bombing raid in the history. \n\nIn May 1945, Australian troops landed in Borneo, over-running the oilfields there. British, American, and Chinese forces defeated the Japanese in northern Burma in March, and the British pushed on to reach Rangoon by 3 May. Chinese forces started a counterattack in the Battle of West Hunan that occurred between 6 April and 7 June 1945. American naval and amphibious forces also moved towards Japan, taking Iwo Jima by March, and Okinawa by the end of June. At the same time, American submarines cut off Japanese imports, drastically reducing Japan's ability to supply its overseas forces.\n\nOn 11 July, Allied leaders met in Potsdam, Germany. They confirmed earlier agreements about Germany, and reiterated the demand for unconditional surrender of Japan, specifically stating that \"the alternative for Japan is prompt and utter destruction\". During this conference, the United Kingdom held its general election, and Clement Attlee replaced Churchill as Prime Minister.\n\nThe Allied call for unconditional surrender was rejected by the Japanese government, which believed it would be capable of negotiating for more favourable surrender terms. In early August, the USAAF dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Between the two bombings, the Soviets, pursuant to the Yalta agreement, invaded Japanese-held Manchuria and quickly defeated the Kwantung Army, which was the largest Japanese fighting force, thereby persuading previously adamant Imperial Army leaders to accept surrender terms. The Red Army also captured the southern part of Sakhalin Island and the Kuril Islands. On 15 August 1945, Japan surrendered, with the surrender documents finally signed at Tokyo Bay on the deck of the American battleship USS \"Missouri\" on 2 September 1945, ending the war.\n\nThe Allies established occupation administrations in Austria and Germany. The former became a neutral state, non-aligned with any political bloc. The latter was divided into western and eastern occupation zones controlled by the Western Allies and the Soviet Union. A denazification programme in Germany led to the prosecution of Nazi war criminals in the Nuremberg trials and the removal of ex-Nazis from power, although this policy moved towards amnesty and re-integration of ex-Nazis into West German society.\n\nGermany lost a quarter of its pre-war (1937) territory. Among the eastern territories, Silesia, Neumark and most of Pomerania were taken over by Poland, and East Prussia was divided between Poland and the Soviet Union, followed by the expulsion to Germany of the nine million Germans from these provinces, as well as three million Germans from the Sudetenland in Czechoslovakia. By the 1950s, one-fifth of West Germans were refugees from the east. The Soviet Union also took over the Polish provinces east of the Curzon line, from which 2 million Poles were expelled; north-east Romania, parts of eastern Finland, and the three Baltic states were incorporated into the Soviet Union.\n\nIn an effort to maintain world peace, the Allies formed the United Nations, which officially came into existence on 24 October 1945, and adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 as a common standard for all member nations. The great powers that were the victors of the war—France, China, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and the United States—became the permanent members of the UN's Security Council. The five permanent members remain so to the present, although there have been two seat changes, between the Republic of China and the People's Republic of China in 1971, and between the Soviet Union and its successor state, the Russian Federation, following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. The alliance between the Western Allies and the Soviet Union had begun to deteriorate even before the war was over.\n\nGermany had been \"de facto\" divided, and two independent states, the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic, were created within the borders of Allied and Soviet occupation zones. The rest of Europe was also divided into Western and Soviet spheres of influence. Most eastern and central European countries fell into the Soviet sphere, which led to establishment of Communist-led regimes, with full or partial support of the Soviet occupation authorities. As a result, East Germany, Poland, Hungary, Romania, Czechoslovakia, and Albania became Soviet satellite states. Communist Yugoslavia conducted a fully independent policy, causing tension with the Soviet Union.\n\nPost-war division of the world was formalised by two international military alliances, the United States-led NATO and the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact. The long period of political tensions and military competition between them, the Cold War, would be accompanied by an unprecedented arms race and proxy wars.\n\nIn Asia, the United States led the occupation of Japan and administrated Japan's former islands in the Western Pacific, while the Soviets annexed Sakhalin and the Kuril Islands. Korea, formerly under Japanese rule, was divided and occupied by the Soviet Union in the North and the United States in the South between 1945 and 1948. Separate republics emerged on both sides of the 38th parallel in 1948, each claiming to be the legitimate government for all of Korea, which led ultimately to the Korean War.\n\nIn China, nationalist and communist forces resumed the civil war in June 1946. Communist forces were victorious and established the People's Republic of China on the mainland, while nationalist forces retreated to Taiwan in 1949. In the Middle East, the Arab rejection of the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine and the creation of Israel marked the escalation of the Arab–Israeli conflict. While European powers attempted to retain some or all of their colonial empires, their losses of prestige and resources during the war rendered this unsuccessful, leading to decolonisation.\n\nThe global economy suffered heavily from the war, although participating nations were affected differently. The United States emerged much richer than any other nation, leading to a baby boom, and by 1950 its gross domestic product per person was much higher than that of any of the other powers, and it dominated the world economy. The UK and US pursued a policy of industrial disarmament in Western Germany in the years 1945–1948. Because of international trade interdependencies this led to European economic stagnation and delayed European recovery for several years.\n\nRecovery began with the mid-1948 currency reform in Western Germany, and was sped up by the liberalisation of European economic policy that the Marshall Plan (1948–1951) both directly and indirectly caused. The post-1948 West German recovery has been called the German economic miracle. Italy also experienced an economic boom and the French economy rebounded. By contrast, the United Kingdom was in a state of economic ruin, and although receiving a quarter of the total Marshall Plan assistance, more than any other European country, it continued in relative economic decline for decades.\n\nThe Soviet Union, despite enormous human and material losses, also experienced rapid increase in production in the immediate post-war era. Japan experienced incredibly rapid economic growth, becoming one of the most powerful economies in the world by the 1980s. China returned to its pre-war industrial production by 1952.\n\nEstimates for the total number of casualties in the war vary, because many deaths went unrecorded. Most suggest that some 60 million people died in the war, including about 20 million military personnel and 40 million civilians.\nMany of the civilians died because of deliberate genocide, massacres, mass-bombings, disease, and starvation.\n\nThe Soviet Union lost around 27 million people during the war, 8.7 million military and 19 million civilian deaths. A quarter of the people in the Soviet Union were wounded or killed. Germany sustained 5.3 million military losses, mostly on the Eastern Front and during the final battles in Germany.\n\nOf the total number of deaths in World War II, approximately 85 per cent—mostly Soviet and Chinese—were on the Allied side. Many of these deaths were caused by war crimes committed by German and Japanese forces in occupied territories. An estimated 11 to 17 million civilians died as a direct or as an indirect result of Nazi racist policies, including mass killing of around 6 million Jews, along with Roma, homosexuals, at least 1.9 million ethnic Poles and millions of other Slavs (including Russians, Ukrainians and Belarusians), and other ethnic and minority groups. Between 1941 and 1945, over 200,000 ethnic Serbs, along with gypsies and Jews, were persecuted and murdered by the Axis-aligned Croatian Ustaše in Yugoslavia. Also, over 100,000 Poles were massacred by the Ukrainian Insurgent Army in the Volhynia massacres, between 1943 and 1945.\n\nIn Asia and the Pacific, between 3 million and more than 10 million civilians, mostly Chinese (estimated at 7.5 million), were killed by the Japanese occupation forces. The most infamous Japanese atrocity was the Nanking Massacre, in which fifty to three hundred thousand Chinese civilians were raped and murdered. Mitsuyoshi Himeta reported that 2.7 million casualties occurred during the \"Sankō Sakusen\". General Yasuji Okamura implemented the policy in Heipei and Shantung.\n\nAxis forces employed biological and chemical weapons. The Imperial Japanese Army used a variety of such weapons during its invasion and occupation of China (\"see Unit 731\") and in early conflicts against the Soviets. Both the Germans and Japanese tested such weapons against civilians, and sometimes on prisoners of war.\n\nThe Soviet Union was responsible for the Katyn massacre of 22,000 Polish officers, and the imprisonment or execution of thousands of political prisoners by the NKVD, along with mass civilian deportations to Siberia, in the Baltic states and eastern Poland annexed by the Red Army.\n\nThe mass-bombing of cities in Europe and Asia has often been called a war crime, although no positive or specific customary international humanitarian law with respect to aerial warfare existed before or during World War II. The USAAF firebombed a total of 67 Japanese cities, killing 393,000 civilians and destroying 65% of built-up areas.\n\nThe German government led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party was responsible for the Holocaust (killing approximately 6 million Jews), as well as for killing 2.7 million ethnic Poles and 4 million others who were deemed \"unworthy of life\" (including the disabled and mentally ill, Soviet prisoners of war, Romani, homosexuals, Freemasons, and Jehovah's Witnesses) as part of a programme of deliberate extermination. Soviet POWs were kept in especially unbearable conditions, and, although their extermination was not an official goal, 3.6 million Soviet POWs out of 5.7 died in Nazi camps during the war. In addition to concentration camps, death camps were created in Nazi Germany to exterminate people at an industrial scale. Nazi Germany extensively used forced labourers; about 12 million Europeans from German occupied countries were used as a slave work force in German agriculture and war economy.\n\nThe Soviet Gulag became a \"de facto\" system of deadly camps during 1942–43, when wartime privation and hunger caused numerous deaths of inmates, including foreign citizens of Poland and other countries occupied in 1939–40 by the Soviet Union, as well as Axis POWs. By the end of the war, most Soviet POWs liberated from Nazi camps and many repatriated civilians were detained in special filtration camps where they were subjected to NKVD evaluation, and a significant part of them was sent to the Gulag as real or perceived Nazi collaborators.\n\nJapanese prisoner-of-war camps, many of which were used as labour camps, also had high death rates. The International Military Tribunal for the Far East found the death rate of Western prisoners was 27.1 per cent (for American POWs, 37 per cent), seven times that of POWs under the Germans and Italians. While 37,583 prisoners from the UK, 28,500 from the Netherlands, and 14,473 from the United States were released after the surrender of Japan, the number of Chinese released was only 56.\n\nAt least five million Chinese civilians from northern China and Manchukuo were enslaved between 1935 and 1941 by the East Asia Development Board, or \"Kōain\", for work in mines and war industries. After 1942, the number reached 10 million. In Java, between 4 and 10 million \"rōmusha\" (Japanese: \"manual labourers\"), were forced to work by the Japanese military. About 270,000 of these Javanese labourers were sent to other Japanese-held areas in South East Asia, and only 52,000 were repatriated to Java.\n\nIn Europe, occupation came under two forms. In Western, Northern, and Central Europe (France, Norway, Denmark, the Low Countries, and the annexed portions of Czechoslovakia) Germany established economic policies through which it collected roughly 69.5 billion reichmarks (27.8 billion US dollars) by the end of the war; this figure does not include the sizeable plunder of industrial products, military equipment, raw materials and other goods. Thus, the income from occupied nations was over 40 per cent of the income Germany collected from taxation, a figure which increased to nearly 40 per cent of total German income as the war went on.\n\nIn the East, the intended gains of \"Lebensraum\" were never attained as fluctuating front-lines and Soviet scorched earth policies denied resources to the German invaders. Unlike in the West, the Nazi racial policy encouraged extreme brutality against what it considered to be the \"inferior people\" of Slavic descent; most German advances were thus followed by mass executions. Although resistance groups formed in most occupied territories, they did not significantly hamper German operations in either the East or the West until late 1943.\n\nIn Asia, Japan termed nations under its occupation as being part of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, essentially a Japanese hegemony which it claimed was for purposes of liberating colonised peoples. Although Japanese forces were originally welcomed as liberators from European domination in some territories, their excessive brutality turned local public opinion against them within weeks. During Japan's initial conquest it captured of oil (~5.5×10 tonnes) left behind by retreating Allied forces, and by 1943 was able to get production in the Dutch East Indies up to , 76 per cent of its 1940 output rate.\n\nIn Europe, before the outbreak of the war, the Allies had significant advantages in both population and economics. In 1938, the Western Allies (United Kingdom, France, Poland and British Dominions) had a 30 per cent larger population and a 30 per cent higher gross domestic product than the European Axis powers (Germany and Italy); if colonies are included, it then gives the Allies more than a 5:1 advantage in population and nearly 2:1 advantage in GDP. In Asia at the same time, China had roughly six times the population of Japan, but only an 89 per cent higher GDP; this is reduced to three times the population and only a 38 per cent higher GDP if Japanese colonies are included.\n\nThe United States provided about two-thirds of all the ordnance used by the Allies in terms of warships, transports, warplanes, artillery, tanks, trucks, and ammunition. Though the Allies' economic and population advantages were largely mitigated during the initial rapid blitzkrieg attacks of Germany and Japan, they became the decisive factor by 1942, after the United States and Soviet Union joined the Allies, as the war largely settled into one of attrition. While the Allies' ability to out-produce the Axis is often attributed to the Allies having more access to natural resources, other factors, such as Germany and Japan's reluctance to employ women in the labour force, Allied strategic bombing, and Germany's late shift to a war economy contributed significantly. Additionally, neither Germany nor Japan planned to fight a protracted war, and were not equipped to do so. To improve their production, Germany and Japan used millions of slave labourers; Germany used about 12 million people, mostly from Eastern Europe, while Japan used more than 18 million people in Far East Asia.\n\nAircraft were used for reconnaissance, as fighters, bombers, and ground-support, and each role was advanced considerably. Innovation included airlift (the capability to quickly move limited high-priority supplies, equipment, and personnel); and of strategic bombing (the bombing of enemy industrial and population centres to destroy the enemy's ability to wage war). Anti-aircraft weaponry also advanced, including defences such as radar and surface-to-air artillery. The use of the jet aircraft was pioneered and, though late introduction meant it had little impact, it led to jets becoming standard in air forces worldwide. Although guided missiles were being developed, they were not advanced enough to reliably target aircraft until some years after the war.\n\nAdvances were made in nearly every aspect of naval warfare, most notably with aircraft carriers and submarines. Although aeronautical warfare had relatively little success at the start of the war, actions at Taranto, Pearl Harbor, and the Coral Sea established the carrier as the dominant capital ship in place of the battleship. In the Atlantic, escort carriers proved to be a vital part of Allied convoys, increasing the effective protection radius and helping to close the Mid-Atlantic gap. Carriers were also more economical than battleships because of the relatively low cost of aircraft and their not requiring to be as heavily armoured. Submarines, which had proved to be an effective weapon during the First World War, were anticipated by all sides to be important in the second. The British focused development on anti-submarine weaponry and tactics, such as sonar and convoys, while Germany focused on improving its offensive capability, with designs such as the Type VII submarine and wolfpack tactics. Gradually, improving Allied technologies such as the Leigh light, hedgehog, squid, and homing torpedoes proved victorious.\n\nLand warfare changed from the static front lines of trench warfare of World War I, which had relied on improved artillery that outmatched the speed of both infantry and cavalry, to increased mobility and combined arms. The tank, which had been used predominantly for infantry support in the First World War, had evolved into the primary weapon. In the late 1930s, tank design was considerably more advanced than it had been during World War I, and advances continued throughout the war with increases in speed, armour and firepower. At the start of the war, most commanders thought enemy tanks should be met by tanks with superior specifications. This idea was challenged by the poor performance of the relatively light early tank guns against armour, and German doctrine of avoiding tank-versus-tank combat. This, along with Germany's use of combined arms, were among the key elements of their highly successful blitzkrieg tactics across Poland and France. Many means of destroying tanks, including indirect artillery, anti-tank guns (both towed and self-propelled), mines, short-ranged infantry antitank weapons, and other tanks were used. Even with large-scale mechanisation, infantry remained the backbone of all forces, and throughout the war, most infantry were equipped similarly to World War I. The portable machine gun spread, a notable example being the German MG34, and various submachine guns which were suited to close combat in urban and jungle settings. The assault rifle, a late war development incorporating many features of the rifle and submachine gun, became the standard postwar infantry weapon for most armed forces.\n\nMost major belligerents attempted to solve the problems of complexity and security involved in using large codebooks for cryptography by designing ciphering machines, the most well known being the German Enigma machine. Development of SIGINT (\"sig\"nals \"int\"elligence) and cryptanalysis enabled the countering process of decryption. Notable examples were the Allied decryption of Japanese naval codes and British Ultra, a pioneering method for decoding Enigma benefiting from information given to the United Kingdom by the Polish Cipher Bureau, which had been decoding early versions of Enigma before the war. Another aspect of military intelligence was the use of deception, which the Allies used to great effect, such as in operations Mincemeat and Bodyguard.\n\nOther technological and engineering feats achieved during, or as a result of, the war include the world's first programmable computers (Z3, Colossus, and ENIAC), guided missiles and modern rockets, the Manhattan Project's development of nuclear weapons, operations research and the development of artificial harbours and oil pipelines under the English Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "49071493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49071493", "title": "Yahya ibn Zikrawayh", "text": "Yahya ibn Zikrawayh\n\nYahya ibn Zikrawayh, also known under his assumed name Sahib al-Naqa (\"Master of the She-camel\"), was a Qarmatian leader in the Syrian Desert in the early years of the 10th century.\n\nYahya was the eldest son of the Qarmatian leader Zikrawayh ibn Mihrawayh, and a descendant of the seventh Isma'ili imam, Muhammad ibn Isma'il. His name made direct allusion to John the Baptist (known as Yahya ibn Zakariyya in Islam), but he also assumed the title of \"Sahib al-Naqa\" (\"Master of the She-camel\") and claimed to be the awaited Mahdi under the name \"Muhammad ibn Abdallah\". Along with his brother Husayn Yahya established a base of operations at Palmyra. The brothers were successful in gaining the support of many local Bedouin—especially from the Banu Kalb, thus acquiring a potent military force. \n\nFrom this base they began launching raids against the Abbasid and Tulunid provinces of Syria, with devastating effect. In 902, the Qarmatians defeated the Tulunids under Tughj ibn Juff near Raqqa, and laid siege to Damascus. The city was successfully held by Tughj, and Yahya was killed. Leadership passed to his brother, who assumed the title \"Man with the Mole\", and led the Qarmatians until his defeat, capture and execution after the Battle of Hama in November 903. \n\nZikrawayh, the brothers' father, also rebelled in 906 near Kufa but was killed in the next year during an attack on the \"hajj\" caravan. With these defeats, the Qarmatian movement virtually ceased to exist in the Syrian Desert, although their counterparts in Bahrayn remained an active threat for several decades to come.\n\n"}
