{"id": "39155757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39155757", "title": "2013 PDC-E", "text": "2013 PDC-E\n\n2013 PDC-E is a fictitious near earth object developed by Don Yeomans and others as the target of a table top emergency response drill at the International Academy of Astronautics 2013 Planetary Defense Conference. The drill was intended to give astronomers and other experts in asteroid and comet impact studies practice in responding to a hypothetical immanent impact with global consequences.\n\nThe name 2013 PDC-E is a parody on minor planet naming conventions, \"PDC\" for Planetary Defense Conference, \"-E\" for exercise.\n\nThe object is modeled after 2012 DA14. It is notionally a 300-meter-diameter stony asteroid that is part of the Aten dynamical family in 2013, when it is hypothetically observed by the Pan-STARRS telescope at a magnitude of 22.5. It migrates to the Apollo dynamical family over time. 2013 PDC-E is predicted in the exercise to pass through a dynamical keyhole of 1.2 km diameter in 2023 with a probability of 8%. If it did, it would strike Earth in 2028 with an impact velocity of 12.4 km/s, and an impact energy of approximately 700 megatons.\n\n"}
{"id": "23661668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23661668", "title": "Adam's Peak", "text": "Adam's Peak\n\nAdam's Peak is a tall conical mountain located in central Sri Lanka. It is well known for the Sri Pada, i.e., \"sacred footprint\", a rock formation near the summit, which in Buddhist tradition is held to be the footprint of the Buddha, in Hindu tradition that of Shiva and in Islamic and Christian tradition that of Adam, or that of St. Thomas.\n\nThe mountain is located in the southern reaches of the Central Highlands in the Ratnapura District and Nuwara Eliya district of the Sabaragamuwa Province and Central Province —lying about 40 km northeast of the city of Ratnapura and 32 km southwest of the city of Hatton. The surrounding region is largely forested hills, with no mountain of comparable size nearby. The region along the mountain is a wildlife reserve, housing many species varying from elephants to leopards, and including many endemic species.\n\nAdam's Peak is important as a watershed. The districts to the south and the east of Adam's Peak yield precious stones—emeralds, rubies and sapphires, for which the island has been famous, and which earned for its ancient name of Ratnadvipa.\n\nAccess to the mountain is possible by 6 trails: Ratnapura-Palabaddala, Hatton-Nallathanni, Kuruwita-Erathna, Murraywatte, Mookuwatte and Malimboda. The Nallathanni & Palabaddala routes are most favored by those undertaking the climb, while the Kuruwita-Erathna trail is used less often; these trails are linked to major cities or town by bus, accounting for their popular use. The Murraywatte, Mookuwatte and Malimboda routes are hardly used, but do intersect with the Palabaddala road midway through the ascent. The usual route taken by most pilgrims is ascent via Hatton and descent via Ratnapura; although the Hatton trail is the steepest, it is also shorter than any of the other trails by approximately five kilometers.\n\nOnce one of the starting 'nodes' of Palabadalla, Nallathanni or Erathna are reached, the rest of the ascent is done on foot through the forested mountainside on the steps built into it. The greater part of the track leading from the base to the summit consists of thousands of steps built in cement or rough stones. The trails are illuminated with electric light, making night-time ascent possible and safe to do even when accompanied by children. Rest stops and wayside shops along the trails serve refreshments and supplies.\n\nWhilst there are many ancient monuments on the mountain, there is an important Peace Pagoda located halfway up, built by Nipponzan Myohoji in 1978.\n\nDue to its significance to the various people that inhabit the country, the mountain is referred to by a variety of names.\n\nThe often used \"Sri Pada\" is derived from Sanskrit, used by the Sinhalese people in a religious context; this name also has meaning in Pāli, and may be translated roughly as \"the sacred foot\". It refers to the footprint-shaped mark at the summit, which is believed by Buddhists to be that of the Buddha. Christian and Islamic traditions assert that it is the footprint of Adam, left when first setting foot on Earth after having been cast out of paradise, giving it the name \"Adam's Peak\". Hindu tradition refers to the footprint as that of the Hindu deity Shiva, and thus names the mountain \"Shiva padam\" (Shiva's foot) in Tamil. Tamils may also use the name \"Shivanolipatha Malai\" to refer to the mountain.\n\nAnother Sinhala name for the mountain is \"Samanalakanda\", which refers either to the deity Saman, who is said to live upon the mountain, or to the butterflies (\"samanalayā\") that frequent the mountain during their annual migrations to the region. The name Sri Paada, however, is the more commonly used.\n\nOther local and historic names include \"Ratnagiri\" (\"jewelled hill\"), \"Samantakuta\" (\"Peak of Saman\"), \"Svargarohanam\" (\"the climb to heaven\"), \"Mount Rohana\" and other variations on the root \"Rohana\".\n\nSri Pada is first mentioned (as `Samanthakuta') in the Deepawamsa, the earliest Pali chronicle, (4th century), and also in the 5th century chronicle Mahawamsa, where it is stated that the Buddha visited the mountain peak. The chronicle \"Rajavaliya\" states that the King Valagamba (1st century BCE) had taken refuge in the forests of Adam's Peak against invaders from India, and later returned to Anuradhapura. The Mahawamsa again mentions the visit of King Vijayabahu I (1058–1114) to the mountain. The famous Chinese pilgrim and Buddhist traveler Fa Hien stayed in Sri Lanka in 411–12 CE and mentions Sri Pada although it is not made clear whether he actually visited it.\n\nThe Italian merchant Marco Polo in his \"Travels\" of 1298 CE noted that Adam's Peak was an important place of pilgrimage but did not mention a footprint in the rock. The Arab traveler Ibn Battuta climbed to the summit of the mountain which he called \"Sarandīb\" in 1344 CE. In his description he mentions a stairway and iron stanchions with chains to help the pilgrims. John Davy brother of the noted chemist Sir Humphry Davy visited the peak in 1817. He recorded observing an oversized foot print carved in stone and ornamented with a single margin of brass and studded with gems.\n\nIt is revered as a holy site by Buddhists, Hindus, some Muslims and Christians. It has specific qualities that cause it to stand out and be noticed; including its dominant and outstanding profile, and the boulder at the peak that contains an indentation resembling a footprint. As the 1910, Encyclopædia Britannica notes\n\n\"For a long period Sri Pada was supposed to be the highest mountain in Ceylon, but actual survey makes it only 7353 ft. above sea-level. This elevation is chiefly remarkable as the resort of pilgrims from all parts of the East. The hollow in the lofty rock that crowns the summit is said by the Buddhists of Buddha, by the Hindus to be the footstep of Siva, by some Muslims of Adam, whilst the Portuguese Christians were divided between the conflicting claims of St Thomas and the eunuch of Candace, queen of Ethiopia. The footstep is covered by a handsome roof, and is guarded by the priests of a rich monastery half-way up the mountain, who maintain a shrine on the summit of the peak.\"\nIt is an important pilgrimage site, especially for Buddhists. Pilgrims walk up the mountain, following a variety of difficult routes up thousands of steps. The journey takes several hours at least.\n\nThe mountain is most often scaled from December to May. During other months it is hard to climb the mountain due to very heavy rain, extreme wind, and thick mist.The peak pilgrimage season is in April, and the goal is to be on top of the mountain at sunrise, when the distinctive shape of the mountain casts a triangular shadow on the surrounding plain and can be seen to move quickly downward as the sun rises.\n\nFor Buddhists, the footprint mark is the left foot of the Buddha, left behind when Buddha visited Sri Lanka, as a symbol for worship at the invitation of Buddhist God Saman.\n\nTamil Hindus consider it as the footprint of Lord Shiva. It is also fabled that the mountain is the legendary mount Trikuta the capital of Ravana during the Ramayana times from where he ruled Lanka.\n\nSome Muslims and Christians in Sri Lanka ascribe it to where Adam, the first Ancestor, set foot as he was exiled from the Garden of Eden . The legends of Adam are connected to the idea that Sri Lanka was the original Eden, and in the Muslim tradition that Adam was 30 ft tall.\n\nA shrine to Saman, a Buddhist \"deity\" (People who have spent spiritual life during their life on earth and done pacificism service to regions are deified by Sri Lankan Buddhists) charged with protecting the mountain top, can be found near the footprint.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48541887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48541887", "title": "Birds of the World: Recommended English Names", "text": "Birds of the World: Recommended English Names\n\nBirds of the World: Recommended English Names is a paperback book, written by Frank Gill and Minturn Wright on behalf of the International Ornithologists' Union. The book is an attempt to produce a standardized set of English names for all bird species, and it is the product of a project set in motion at the 1990 International Ornithological Congress. It is supplemented by a website, the IOC World Bird List, giving updates to the published material.\n\nAn 11-page introduction deals with a number of issues which relate to the naming of birds. This is followed by a systematic list, from pages 12 to 211, and a 46-page index. The family sequence is that of the third edition of the \"Howard and Moore Complete Checklist of the Birds of the World\". The book's cover is illustrated with a photo of a helmet vanga, a bird endemic to Madagascar.\n\nSince the pioneering work of Linnaeus, species of organisms have had recognized scientific names in Latin, Greek, or a modernized derivative of one or both of those languages. In most groups of organisms, the scientific names are sufficient, enjoying widespread use among academics and amateurs alike. By contrast, non-scientific (vernacular) names for birds are extensively used in scientific communication as well as in the large community of amateur enthusiasts. However, vernacular names change frequently and often vary from place to place. Consequently, there is a need to have a degree of consistency in the vernacular names used around the world.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the American Ornithologists' Union (AOU) made an attempt to standardize the English names of birds; its effort covered the United States and Canada. This work's most recent edition, the seventh, covers North America as far south as Panama, but this omits some 80% of the world's species and is still sometimes controversial. A number of authors have come up with lists of birds of the world, but none had as its primary goal the standardization of names. As a result, the field of English names of birds was left \"a swirling sea of polylexy and polysemy, where one bird may have many names and one name may apply to many birds.\"\n\nIn the late 1980s, the International Ornithological Congress (IOC) sought to reach consensus in standardized vernacular names for commonly used languages. Standardized names were published for French in 1993 and Spanish in 1995. English names proved particularly challenging: the task took more than fifteen years. Even so, the authors acknowledged that reaching complete global consensus on names and spelling is unlikely, and they presented this work as a first phase of an ongoing process.\n\nThe English names project began in 1990, when the IOC appointed a committee of prominent ornithologists, chaired by Burt L. Monroe, Jr., to consider the issue. The work \"proved to be more difficult and time-consuming\" than expected. Monroe's death brought the project to a halt. Not until 1994 was the project revived, by Gill and Walter Bock. Gill invited Wright to become recording secretary and organizer of the process; the two were named co-chairs of the revitalized committee.\n\nThe standardization effort was undertaken by a committee of the IOC (the Standing Committee on English Names), with regional subcommittees. The Standing Committee was co-chaired by Frank Gill, a professional ornithologist with worldwide research interests and experience, and Minturn Wright, a lawyer and international birder with an interest in nomenclature; these two were the authors of the book and supervised the overall task. G. Stuart Keith, Christopher Perrins, Nigel Redman, Robert S. Ridgely, Stephen M. Russell, Peter G. Ryan, and Richard Schodde served as regional chairs. David B. Donsker was taxonomic editor.\n\nTwenty-eight committee members worked to formulate the rules and apply them to the task: Per Alström, Mark Beaman, Aldo Berutti, Clive Barlow, David Bishop, Murray Bruce, Paul Coopmans, W. Richard J. Dean, Brian Gill, Simon Harrap, Steven Hilty, Steve N. G. Howell, Tim Inskipp, Michael Irwin, Kenn Kaufman, G. Stuart Keith, Ben King, David Parkin, Christopher Perrins, H. Douglas Pratt, Nigel Redman, Peter G. Ryan, Robert S. Ridgley, Phillip Round, Stephen M. Russell, Richard Schodde, Donald Turner, and Harrison B. Tordoff. The committee members received abundant assistance from others as well. As the authors noted, the compilation of the list was an all-volunteer effort.\n\nAs part of the name standardization, it was also necessary to develop a set of rules for spelling, capitalization, the use of derivative names, and the like. While the rules occupy several pages of the book, they may be briefly summarized:\n\n\nThe committee began consideration of each species's name with reference to existing usage: if a name was in long-standing or widespread usage, it was not changed simply to correct a perceived inaccuracy. Names using such widespread words as \"warbler\" for multiple groups of unrelated species were let stand. Local names, however, were dropped in favor of already-established formal names. Names that were seen as offensive to a \"substantial\" group of people were changed. Many old geographical names were also updated. A strong preference for English words in names was expressed, although long-standing terms from other languages were generally left standing. The most important criterion was that each species was to have only one English name throughout the world, which was to be different from all other names.\n\nThe result, published in 2006, was a 199-page list of species, arranged taxonomically, and a 46-page index, giving both English and scientific names, primarily of genera and families. The taxonomy generally follows the lines set out in the third edition of Howard and Moore's \"Checklist of Birds of the World\". A compact disk bundled with the book contains spreadsheet files that list all 10,068 species and provide additional information on their ranges.\n\nAs the authors acknowledged, \"Passions about bird names run high.\" Reviews of the book were generally favorable. Ted Floyd, editor of \"Birding\" magazine, called the book \"[a] very valuable resource.\"\nS.N.G. Howell called the work a \"handy little book\" and \"a good starting point [which] deserves serious consideration by persons interested in communicating\" about birds, although the review mentions the inconsistency between this list and the AOU's names.\nRick Wright, while acknowledging that \"[c]onsistency is a slippery goal,\" called the list \"a spectacularly useful resource for anyone who writes, reads, or thinks about birds outside of his or her own region\" and concluded that \"the committee and the editors are to be congratulated for producing a useful and useable (sic) work.\"\n\nHowever, the American Ornithologists' Union (AOU) castigated the authors for not using the AOU's guidelines and policies, particularly in the treatment of hyphens. The AOU argued that \"hyphens in compound group names indicate relationships and separate the members of the groups from less closely related forms,\" stating as examples that the hyphen in \"Whistling-Ducks\" distinguishes this bird from other ducks and the hyphen in \"Storm-Petrels\" separates it from other petrels in the family Procellariidae.\nThe authors felt the need to respond. They pointed out that hyphens are not used in this fashion in fields such as herpetology and suggested that \"well-intentioned hyphenation practices misrepresent phylogenetic relationships too often to be helpful.\" They repeated their recommendation that hyphens should be used \"sparingly,\" and urged their fellow ornithologists to \"work together to simplify the use of hyphens as one small step towards improved standardization of English bird names.\" Capitalization presented another dispute, and still has not reached a uniform resolution.\n\nThe book sold well, but it quickly became apparent that revisions would be needed, particularly as new species were described. Although the authors stressed that their work was \"a first edition\", in 2009, the IOC decided not to supplement the book with a revised print edition. Instead, the list of English names is now published electronically on the \"IOC World Bird List\" website. A page on the website tabulates the spread of the list.\n\n"}
{"id": "46978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46978", "title": "Castalia", "text": "Castalia\n\nCastalia (; Ancient Greek: Κασταλία), in Greek mythology, was a nymph whom Apollo transformed into a fountain at Delphi, at the base of Mount Parnassos, or at Mount Helicon. Castalia could inspire the genius of poetry to those who drank her waters or listened to their quiet sound; the sacred water was also used to clean the Delphian temples. Apollo consecrated Castalia to the Muses (\"Castaliae Musae\").\n\nThe 20th century German writer Hermann Hesse used Castalia as inspiration for the name of the futuristic fictional utopia in his 1943 magnum opus, \"The Glass Bead Game\". Castalia is home to an austere order of intellectuals with a twofold mission: to run boarding schools for boys, and to nurture and play the Glass Bead Game.\n\n"}
{"id": "33353328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33353328", "title": "Church of St. George of Samatya", "text": "Church of St. George of Samatya\n\nSaint George of Samatya or Surp Kevork (Armenian: \"Սամաթիոյ Սուրբ Գէորգ Եկեղեցի\"; Turkish name: \"Sulu Manastır\", meaning: \"Water Monastery\") is an Armenian church in Istanbul.\n\nThe edifice, built between 1866 and 1887, has been erected above the substructure of a Byzantine church and monastery built in the eleventh century. The complex, dedicated to St. Mary Peribleptos (, \"Monì tis Theotókou tis Perivléptou\") was one of the most important Greek Orthodox monasteries in Constantinople. After the Ottoman conquest of the city in 1453 it was ceded to the Armenian community in Istanbul, and became for a period the seat of the Armenian Patriarchate of Constantinople.\n\nThe church is located in Istanbul, in the district of Fatih, in the neighbourhood of Kocamustafapaşa (historically Samatya), at \"Marmara Caddesi 79\". It lies inside the walled city, at a short distance from the shore of the Sea of Marmara. The building is protected by a high wall, and surrounded by other edifices.\n\nIn the fifth century on this place stood the church of \"Hagios Stephanos en tais Aurelianai\". This church was located near the \"Helenianai Palace\" and the monastery of St. Dalmatios, close to an abundant water source (). From this source, still existing, originates the Turkish name of the complex (\"Water Monastery\").\n\nNot far from these buildings and from the sea walls, on a small plateau on the southern slope of the seventh hill of Constantinople, in the \"Xerolophos\" quartier, Byzantine Emperor Romanos III Argyros (r. 1028–1034) founded a large monastery dedicated to the \"Theotokos Peribleptos\" after his unlucky expedition to Syria. The appellation, meaning \"conspicuous\", \"easy to see\", originates from its dominating and isolated position. The Emperor spent a great deal of money to erect the building, and was harshly criticized for that. Romanos was buried here in 1034. Emperor Nikephoros III Botaneiates (r. 1078–1081) repaired the complex in 1080. After his deposition, Nikephoros was obliged by his successor, Alexios I Komnenos (r. 1081–1118) to become a monk here, and was buried in the church as well.\n\nIn the 11th-12th centuries, it was usual for the court to come to the Peribleptos each year to celebrate the candlemas. After the Latin sack of 1204, the church remained for a short time under Greek control, but was later given to Venetian Benedictine monks. After the end of the Latin Empire, Michael VIII Palaiologos (r. 1261–1282) restored the church and added in the refectory a mosaic representing himself with his wife Theodora and their son Constantine. This mosaic was destroyed in the great fire of Samatya in 1782.\n\nAt the end of the thirteenth century a young monk of the monastery, Hylarion, sent to Elegmoi in Bythinia to look after the possessions of the monastery, found the region ravaged by the Turks. He successfully organised the population against the raiders and after confronting them made the area safe again, but that caused a great scandal in Constantinople, since monks were not allowed to fight. After he was forced to go back to the capital, the Turkish pillaging started again, until the inhabitants of Elegmoi sent a petition to Constantinople asking for his return. At the end the Hegumen of the monastery was forced to give his consent.\n\nThe building was damaged in 1402 by fire and lighting. In 1422, Emperor Manuel II Palaiologos (r. 1391–1425) lived in this monastery during an epidemic and the siege of the city by the Ottoman Sultan Murad II.\n\nImmediately after the Conquest of Constantinople in 1453, the church continued to belong to the Greek Orthodox Church. According to Müller-Wiener, between 1461 and 1480 (the resettling of Armenians in Samatya occurred in 1458/862 AH), Sultan Mehmed II (r. 1444–46, 1451–81) ceded the church to the Armenian community, and until 1643/44 the complex was the seat of the Armenian Patriarchate of Constantinople. Other sources report that the building was given to the Armenians in 1643 because of the intercession of an Armenian woman, named Şivekâr, who was a favourite of Sultan Ibrahim I (r. 1640–1648). During this period several churches were built here. By the middle of the seventeenth century the only Byzantine building still visible was the refectory.\n\nIn 1722 the complex was renovated by the Armenian architect Meldon, but in 1782 everything was destroyed by the great fire of Samatya. The reconstruction took place in 1804.\n\nBetween 1866 and 1887 (after another fire in 1877), the church was rebuilt as endowment of Michael Hagopian, and only the foundations of the Byzantine church and remains of the source building were kept in place. Moreover, two large schools were built near the church.\n\nSpanish ambassador Ruy Gonzáles de Clavijo (practically the only extant source about the complex in the Byzantine period), who visited Constantinople in 1402, writes that the plan of St. Mary was a central one, with a square nave surmounted by a dome with an atrium and side rooms, similar to the contemporary churches of Hosios Loukas and Daphni Monastery in Greece. The hemispherical dome – decorated with a mosaic – rested upon eight columns of polychrome Jasper which sustained four squinches. These made a transition from the octagonal base to the square defined by the walls. Recent excavations confirmed the description of Clavijo. The church, whose walls and floor were also covered with jasper slabs, contained several imperial tombs, placed in two side rooms. Its outer walls were richly decorated with paintings representing towns and castles which were endowed to the monastery. A large refectory adorned with a fresco depicting the Last Supper, rooms for the monks, gardens and vineyards were part of the complex. In the church were also exhibited several relics, among them the body of Saint Gregory.\n\nThe present church is a rectangular building, whose sides are about twenty and thirty meters long. It is oriented in SW – NE direction. The church has an apse on the NE side and a Bell-gable. The interior is covered with a Barrel Vault and is lavishly decorated. Over the Ayazma, considered to be one of the most beautiful in Istanbul, is built a chapel dedicated to Saint John the Forerunner.\n\n"}
{"id": "58696633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58696633", "title": "Claire Parkinson", "text": "Claire Parkinson\n\nClaire L. Parkinson is an American Earth scientist and climatologist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. \n\nParkinson has a B.A. in mathematics from Wellesley College, where she was elected to both Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi, and a Ph.D. in geography/climatology from Ohio State University. \n\nParkinson is a climatologist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. Her research emphasis has been on polar sea ice and its connections to the rest of the climate system and to climate change, with a particular emphasis on satellite remote sensing. This work has involved satellite data set generation and analysis, including the determination of decreases in Arctic sea ice coverage since the 1970s and examination of their regional and interannual variabilities and impacts, plus the quantification and analysis of the very different time series of sea ice changes in the Antarctic. Dr. Parkinson is the Project Scientist for the Aqua satellite mission, which launched in May 2002 and continues to transmit data on many atmospheric, ocean, land, and ice variables. The Aqua data have been used in thousands of research publications by scientists worldwide and in numerous practical applications, including weather forecasting and forest fire detection. \n\nParkinson has developed a computer model of sea ice, has done field work in both the Arctic and the Antarctic. She has authored more than 100 scientific publications and author or editor of 15 books, among them she is the lead author of an atlas of Arctic sea ice from satellite data and a coauthor of two other sea ice atlases. She wrote an introductory book on examining the Earth with satellite imagery, has coauthored a university textbook on climate modeling, has coedited two books on satellite observations related to global change, and is lead editor of the 2000 Earth Observing System Data Products Handbook, Vol. 2 and of the 2006 NASA Earth Science Reference Handbook . In 2010 she published a book titled \"Coming Climate Crisis? Consider the Past, Beware the Big Fix\" about climate change and her concerns regarding potentially dangerous proposed geoengineering projects. She has done considerable outreach to children and the general public, serving as the sole science advisor to the photographic exhibit “Antarctica On Thin Ice” that opened at the United Nations Headquarters in New York City on December 17, 2007. She is active in promoting women in science, including leading an effort that produced a book on Women of Goddard: Careers in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics and a set of six related posters . Parkinson is also interested in history, and has written a book on the history of western science from 1202 to 1930, \"Breakthroughs: A Chronology of Great Achievements in Science and Mathematics,\" published by G. K. Hall, Boston in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "66722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66722", "title": "Deciduous", "text": "Deciduous\n\nIn the fields of horticulture and botany, the term deciduous (/dɪˈsɪdʒuəs/) means \"falling off at maturity\" and \"tending to fall off\", in reference to trees and shrubs that seasonally shed leaves, usually in the autumn; to the shedding of petals, after flowering; and to the shedding of ripe fruit.\n\nGenerally, the term \"deciduous\" means \"the dropping of a part that is no longer needed\" and the \"falling away [of a part] after its purpose is finished\". In plants, it is the result of natural processes. \"Deciduous\" has a similar meaning when referring to animal parts, such as deciduous antlers in deer, deciduous teeth (baby teeth) in some mammals (including humans); or decidua, the uterine lining that sheds off after birth.\n\nWood from deciduous trees is used in a variety of ways in several industries including lumber for furniture, construction and flooring (oak), ornamental, bowling pins and baseball bats (maple) and furniture, cabinets, plywood and paneling (birch).\n\nIn botany and horticulture, deciduous plants, including trees, shrubs and herbaceous perennials, are those that lose all of their leaves for part of the year. This process is called abscission. In some cases leaf loss coincides with winter—namely in temperate or polar climates. In other parts of the world, including tropical, subtropical, and arid regions, plants lose their leaves during the dry season or other seasons, depending on variations in rainfall.\n\nThe converse of deciduous is evergreen, where foliage is shed on a different schedule from deciduous trees, therefore appearing to remain green year round. Plants that are intermediate may be called semi-deciduous; they lose old foliage as new growth begins. Other plants are semi-evergreen and lose their leaves before the next growing season, retaining some during winter or dry periods. Some trees, including a few species of oak, have desiccated leaves that remain on the tree through winter; these dry persistent leaves are called marcescent leaves and are dropped in the spring as new growth begins.\n\nMany deciduous plants flower during the period when they are leafless, as this increases the effectiveness of pollination. The absence of leaves improves wind transmission of pollen for wind-pollinated plants and increases the visibility of the flowers to insects in insect-pollinated plants. This strategy is not without risks, as the flowers can be damaged by frost or, in dry season regions, result in water stress on the plant. Nevertheless, there is much less branch and trunk breakage from glaze ice storms when leafless, and plants can reduce water loss due to the reduction in availability of liquid water during cold winter days.\n\nLeaf drop or abscission involves complex physiological signals and changes within plants. The process of photosynthesis steadily degrades the supply of chlorophylls in foliage; plants normally replenish chlorophylls during the summer months. When autumn arrives and the days are shorter or when plants are drought-stressed, deciduous trees decrease chlorophyll pigment production, allowing other pigments present in the leaf to become apparent, resulting in non-green colored foliage. The brightest leaf colors are produced when days grow short and nights are cool, but remain above freezing. These other pigments include carotenoids that are yellow, brown, and orange. Anthocyanin pigments produce red and purple colors, though they are not always present in the leaves. Rather, they are produced in the foliage in late summer, when sugars are trapped in the leaves after the process of abscission begins. Parts of the world that have showy displays of bright autumn colors are limited to locations where days become short and nights are cool. In other parts of the world, the leaves of deciduous trees simply fall off without turning the bright colors produced from the accumulation of anthocyanin pigments.\nThe beginnings of leaf drop starts when an abscission layer is formed between the leaf petiole and the stem. This layer is formed in the spring during active new growth of the leaf; it consists of layers of cells that can separate from each other. The cells are sensitive to a plant hormone called auxin that is produced by the leaf and other parts of the plant. When auxin coming from the leaf is produced at a rate consistent with that from the body of the plant, the cells of the abscission layer remain connected; in autumn, or when under stress, the auxin flow from the leaf decreases or stops, triggering cellular elongation within the abscission layer. The elongation of these cells break the connection between the different cell layers, allowing the leaf to break away from the plant. It also forms a layer that seals the break, so the plant does not lose sap.\n\nA number of deciduous plants remove nitrogen and carbon from the foliage before they are shed and store them in the form of proteins in the vacuoles of parenchyma cells in the roots and the inner bark. In the spring, these proteins are used as a nitrogen source during the growth of new leaves or flowers.\n\nPlants with deciduous foliage have advantages and disadvantages compared to plants with evergreen foliage. Since deciduous plants lose their leaves to conserve water or to better survive winter weather conditions, they must regrow new foliage during the next suitable growing season; this uses resources which evergreens do not need to expend. Evergreens suffer greater water loss during the winter and they also can experience greater predation pressure, especially when small. Losing leaves in winter may reduce damage from insects; repairing leaves and keeping them functional may be more costly than just losing and regrowing them. Removing leaves also reduces cavitation which can damage xylem vessels in plants. This then allows deciduous plants to have xylem vessels with larger diameters and therefore a greater rate of transpiration (and hence CO uptake as this occurs when stomata are open) during the summer growth period.\n\nThe deciduous characteristic has developed repeatedly among woody plants. Trees include maple, many oaks and nothofagus, elm, aspen, and birch, among others, as well as a number of coniferous genera, such as larch and \"Metasequoia\". Deciduous shrubs include honeysuckle, viburnum, and many others. Most temperate woody vines are also deciduous, including grapes, poison ivy, Virginia creeper, wisteria, etc. The characteristic is useful in plant identification; for instance in parts of Southern California and the American Southeast, deciduous and evergreen oak species may grow side by side.\n\nPeriods of leaf fall often coincide with seasons: winter in the case of cool-climate plants or the dry-season in the case of tropical plants, however there are no deciduous species among tree-like monocotyledonous plants, e.g. palms, yuccas, and dracaenas. The hydrangea hirta is a deciduous woody shrub found in Japan.\n\nForests where a majority of the trees lose their foliage at the end of the typical growing season are called deciduous forests. These forests are found in many areas worldwide and have distinctive ecosystems, understory growth, and soil dynamics.\n\nTwo distinctive types of deciduous forest are found growing around the world.\n\nTemperate deciduous forest biomes are plant communities distributed in North and South America, Asia, Southern slopes of the Himalayas, Europe and for cultivation purposes in Oceania. They have formed under climatic conditions which have great seasonable temperature variability with growth occurring during warm summers and leaf drop in autumn and dormancy during cold winters. These seasonally distinctive communities have diverse life forms that are impacted greatly by the seasonality of their climate, mainly temperature and precipitation rates. These varying and regionally different ecological conditions produce distinctive forest plant communities in different regions.\n\nTropical and subtropical deciduous forest biomes have developed in response not to seasonal temperature variations but to seasonal rainfall patterns. During prolonged dry periods the foliage is dropped to conserve water and prevent death from drought. Leaf drop is not seasonally dependent as it is in temperate climates, and can occur any time of year and varies by region of the world. Even within a small local area there can be variations in the timing and duration of leaf drop; different sides of the same mountain and areas that have high water tables or areas along streams and rivers can produce a patchwork of leafy and leafless trees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3001849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3001849", "title": "Energy Community", "text": "Energy Community\n\nThe Energy Community, also referred to in the past as the Energy Community of South East Europe is an international organisation established between the European Union (EU) and a number of third countries to extend the EU internal energy market to Southeast Europe and beyond. With their signatures, the Contracting Parties commit themselves to implement the relevant EU energy \"acquis communautaire\", to develop an adequate regulatory framework and to liberalise their energy markets in line with the \"acquis\" under the Treaty.\n\nThe Energy Community aims at establishing a Pan-European energy market by extending the energy \"acquis\" of the European Union to the territories of third countries. The Energy Community legal framework covers legislation in the fields of energy, environment, and competition of the EU legislation.\n\nAfter entry into force, the treaty \"acquis\" has been extended on several occasions. It now also includes legislation in relation to security of supply, energy efficiency, oil, renewable energy and statistics. In line with the update at the EU level, the Energy Community transposes and implements the EU's Third Energy Package since September 2011.\n\nTimetable for implementation of the treaty is the following:\n\nParties to the Energy Community Treaty are the European Union and nine Contracting Parties (date of ratification):\nAfter having obtained the observer status, Moldova and Ukraine formally expressed their interest in full membership. Mandated by the Ministerial Council, the European Commission had the first round of formal negotiations with Moldova and Ukraine in late 2008. After three negotiation rounds, the technical negotiations were concluded in 2009. The Ministerial Council, however, made the membership conditional on legislative amendments. In concrete terms, it requested both countries to revise their gas laws and to align them with the EU's Gas Directive 2003/55/EC. Whilst Moldova became a full-fledged member as of 1 May 2010, Ukraine officially acceded to the Energy Community on 1 February 2011. Georgia applied for full membership in 2014 and joined the organization as a fully-fledged member on 1 July 2017.\n\nAny other neighbouring third country can obtain an observer status upon approval of a reasoned request by the Ministerial Council. A separate Procedural Act regulates the rights and obligations of the observers to the Treaty. The observers to the treaty are: \nPursuant to the treaty, any EU member state may obtain the status of a participant. In doing so, the EU member state has the right to attend the Ministerial Council, the Permanent High Level Group, the Regulatory Board and the fora and participate in the discussions in these bodies. This privilege is used by 20 EU member states, namely\n\nFollowing their accession to the European Union, three of the original treaty signatories, Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania, have matured from a Contracting Party to a Participant.\n\nThe main institutions established by the treaty are:\n\nThe Ministerial Council is the principal decision-making institution of the Energy Community. It takes the key policy decisions and adopts the Energy Community's rules and procedures. The Ministerial Council is composed of one representative from each Contracting Party, usually the Minister responsible for energy, and of two representatives from the European Union, the European Commissioner for Energy and a high-level representative of the Presidency of the European Union.\n\nFollowing a decision in December 2009, the Ministerial Council meets once a year. Moreover, the Presidency of the Council is held in turn by each contracting party for a term of 12 months. For the period of 1 January to 31 December 2018, Macedonia holds the presidency in office and chairs the key institutional meetings.\nThe Permanent High Level Group brings together senior officials from each Contracting Party and two representatives of the European Commission. It ensures the continuity of and follow-up to the political meetings by the ministers and decides, in certain cases, on implementing measures.\n\nThe Regulatory Board is composed of high level representatives from the national energy regulatory agencies of the Energy Community Contracting Parties, Observers and Participants. It advises the Energy Community Ministerial Council and Permanent High Level Group (PHLG) on details of statutory, technical and regulatory rules and makes recommendations in the case of cross-border disputes between regulators. The Board can take regulatory measures when empowered by the Energy Community Ministerial Council.\n\nThe Board is currently chaired by its President (2018-2019), Mr Giorgi Pangani, Commissioner at Georgian National Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The European Union, represented by the European Commission, acts as Vice-President and is assisted by the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER). The Regulatory Board meets in Athens. Its work is supported by the Energy Community Secretariat.\n\nThe fora have the task to advise the Energy Community. Chaired by the European Commission, a forum brings together all interested stakeholders from the industry, regulators, industry associations and consumers. Their conclusions, agreed by consensus, are addressed to the Permanent High Level Group.\n\nThe establishment of the fora reflects the process leading to the creation of the Energy Community. The Athens Electricity Forum, previously known as South East Europe Energy Regulation Forum, met for the first time in 2002. The terms governing the Gas Forum were established in 2006. It was decided that the Gas Forum shall convene in Slovenia. The first Social Forum took place in November 2008. At its December 2008 meeting, the Ministerial Council decided to adopt oil stock legislation and to establish the Oil Forum. The first Oil Forum convened in 2009 in Belgrade, Serbia.\n\nThe day-to-day activities of the Energy Community are administered by the Secretariat. The Secretariat assists the Contracting Parties in their implementation of the acquis. The Secretariat supports the Contracting Parties in the drafting of legislation and conducts expert missions when requested by the national authorities. The Secretariat organizes annually over 60 events, including institutional meetings and expert workshops.\n\nEach year the Secretariat submits an Annual Implementation Report to the Ministerial Council of the Energy Community, which assesses the compliance of each Contracting Party with respect to its obligations under the treaty. If a Contracting Party fails to comply with its treaty obligations, the Secretariat may open an infringement procedure.\nMoreover, the Secretariat is responsible for ensuring that the Energy Community budget – to which all Parties contribute – is correctly spent and accounted for. As of 2017, the Secretariat has 31 staff members holding 19 nationalities. Since 1 December 2012, the Director of the Secretariat is Mr Janez Kopač (2012 - 2019). The Secretariat has its seat in Vienna, Austria.\n\nRepresented by the European Commission, the European Union holds the permanent Vice-Presidency of the Energy Community. The European Commission assists the Presidency in the chairing of the Permanent High Level Group and the Ministerial Council and the preparation of agendas of all institutional meetings. At the annual Ministerial Council meeting, the European Commission is represented by the Commissioner for Energy. The European Union is the largest contributor to the Energy Community budget. Its contribution is nearly 95 percent.\n\nThe roots of the Energy Community Treaty go back to the South-East Europe Regional Energy Market for electricity and natural gas formed originally in the framework of the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe through the Athens Memorandum. To this end, the \"establishment of the Energy Community represents a very important political step in a key economic sector before the accession of the SEE countries to the EU\". The institutional setting of the Energy Community shows great parallels to the structures of the European Union. \"It was in the negotiations for this treaty that the Commission \"reproduced\" the institutions that were created by the founding fathers of the European Communities and reproduced its own institutions outside its borders\". On the occasion of the signing of the Treaty, the European Commission stated that \"the Energy Community Treaty is consciously modelled on the European Steel and Coal Community that was the genesis for the European Union\".\n\nThe 'Athens Memorandum' refers to the memorandum of understanding of 2002 and its revision of 2003, signed in Athens. It was proposed by the European Union and it outlined the principles and the institutional necessities for regional electricity market development in South East Europe. Following intense discussions, an agreement was reached at the first South East Europe Electricity Regulation Forum in June 2002. The signing of the memorandum took place in November 2002 by Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Macedonia, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, and Turkey.\n\nThe 2003 revision added natural gas to the scope of work. Under the Athens Memorandum a South-East Europe Regional Energy Market (SEEREM) was envisioned to form part of the EU's internal energy market. The Athens Memorandum also set up a number of institutions, which collectively are known as the 'Athens Process'. In 2004, the Athens Forum meeting decided to name the process 'Energy Community'. at the same time the location of future institutions was agreed.\n\nIn May 2004, the European Union opened negotiations with the countries of the south-eastern European region to conclude a legal agreement. The negotiations took place between the European Community on one side, and Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Macedonia, Republic of Montenegro, Serbia, Romania, Turkey and UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo on the other side. The treaty establishing the Energy Community was signed in Athens, Greece, on 25 October 2005 . Signature of the treaty was approved by the European Parliament on 29 May 2006. The treaty subsequently entered into force on 1 July 2006.\n\nIn October 2013, the Energy Community Ministerial Council unilaterally decided to extend the duration of the treaty by ten years, to 2026. On this occasion, the Ministerial Council also established a High Level Reflection Group, which was mandated to assess the adequacy of the institutional set up and working methods of the Energy Community in achieving the objectives of the Treaty. The Reflection Group published on 11 June 2014 its final report “\"An Energy Community for the Future\"”, outlining recommendations on how the Energy Community could be improved. A roadmap has been adopted as to how these proposals should be taken forward.\n\nThe treaty has been criticised by the European Public Service Union as it lacks a social dimension. The Energy Community \"acquis\" makes an explicit reference to public service obligations and customer protection. Whilst the Treaty may lack a legally binding \"acquis\" on social dialogue, the Contracting Parties have a legally binding obligation to foster social dimension within the process. In October 2007, the Parties signed the Memorandum of Understanding on Social Issues in the context of Energy Community. The Memorandum recognises that economic development and social progress are mutually linked and should go hand in hand. It also spells out the importance and the necessity to involve social partners in the reform process. Ukraine and Moldova signed the Declaration of Memorandum of Understanding on Social Issues in October 2011.\n\nEnvironmental organisations from south-eastern Europe criticised the process in December 2008 as they believed that the ECSEE contains insufficient safeguard mechanisms to ensure that the well-intentioned promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy is not drowned out by the promotion of large and often environmentally harmful coal and hydropower plants. The Energy Community Ministerial Council decided to establish a task force in energy efficiency in 2007. The Energy Community Energy Efficiency Task Force has been operational since January 2008. It now operates under its fifth mandate (2017-2018). In 2009 the ministers also adopted the core EU energy efficiency \"acquis\". In the area of renewable energy the discussion to adopt the EU renewable energy directive started already in 2008. The Ministerial Council established a renewable energy task force in 2009 and adopted the Directive 2009/28/EC with binding renewable energy targets for 2020 in October 2012. In October 2015, the ministers decided to re-establish the renewable energy task force. The Energy Community Task Force on Environment has been operational since Spring 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19453002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19453002", "title": "Energy in Senegal", "text": "Energy in Senegal\n\nSenegal's major source of electricity is mostly diesel and gas, with an installed capacity of 633 MW.\n\nFollowing institutional reform in 1998, Senegal's electricity sector was split into three entities: Senelec, the national utility, the Agency for Rural Electrification (Agence Sénégalaise d'Electrification Rurale, ASER) and the Electricity Regulatory Board (Commission de Régulation au Secteur de l'Electricité, CRSE).\n\nElectricity generation, mainly on a Build-Own-Operate (BOO) basis, is open to the private sector. Senelec, the sole buyer, signs power purchase contracts with independent power producers (IPPs).\n\nSenegal's major source of electricity is mostly diesel and gas, with an installed capacity of 633 MW.\n\n\nSenelec is dealing with a chronic electricity production gap. which has worsened due to growing demand for electricity – the average demand increase during 2005-2009 is estimated at 7%, representing an electricity consumption of 1.933 TWh in 2005 to an estimated 2.66 TWh in 2009. The company is experiencing declining reliability of aging power plants.\n\nSenegal's GDP growth was hindered in 2007 by frequent electricity outages, which caused a slowdown of the economic and manufacturing activities. The GDP growth rate decreased to 2.1% in 2006 from 5.5% in 2005. According to local reports, the outages have contributed to the closure of many small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the food processing, textile and tourism sectors. Larger companies are reporting declines in output averaging 30%.\n\nSenegal is committed to shifting from a diesel-based power generation to cheaper energy sources. Senegal has thus put an option on the coal technology. The recent bid to build-own and operate a 125 MW coal-fired Sendou power station was awarded to a consortium of companies headed by the Swedish operator Nykomb Synergetics. In addition, Senegal has embarked on an aggressive effort to produce significant quantities of biofuels, initially to run electricity generation units, and has a pilot project using sugarcane-based ethanol.\n\n"}
{"id": "4208339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4208339", "title": "European Energy Exchange", "text": "European Energy Exchange\n\nEuropean Energy Exchange AG, Germany's energy exchange, is the leading energy exchange in Central Europe. It develops, operates and connects secure, liquid and transparent markets for energy and related products. On the EEX spot and derivatives markets, power, natural gas, emission allowances, coal and guarantees of origin are traded.\n\nThe European Energy Exchange is located in Leipzig. The current EEX emerged as a result of a merger between LPX Leipzig Power Exchange and the Frankfurt-based EEX in 2002. Deutsche Börse Group’s derivatives business unit Eurex acquired the majority share in the EEX in March 2011. Eurex Zürich AG controls 62.91% voting share and 75.05% stock share.\n\nEEX operates market platforms for trading in electric energy, natural gas, emission allowances and coal. EEX holds 50% of the European Power Exchange EPEX SPOT located in Paris which operates short-term trading in power for Germany, Austria, France and Switzerland. EEX's subsidiary EEX Power Derivatives GmbH offers a platform for German and French power derivatives trading.\n\nEEX currently holds shares in the following companies:\n\nEEX announced that it reached agreement to acquire US-based Nodal Exchange.\n\nIn 2013, the trading of electricity on the EEX Power Derivatives Market amounted to 1,263.9 TWh (terawatt hours) compared with 931.4 TWh in 2012. In the year 2013, a total of 346 TWh was traded on the Power Spot Markets of EPEX SPOT (2012: 339 TWh). In the field of natural gas the volume traded on the EEX amounted to 110 TWh, an increase of 46 percent compared with the previous year (2012: 75.5 TWh). The volume in trading in emission allowances amounted to 850.3 million tonnes in 2013 in total (previous year: 254.6 million tonnes.\n\nThe spot market for electricity is operated by EPEX SPOT, a joint venture owned by German EEX AG and the French Powernext SAS (its 100% daughter). On each day of the year, EPEX SPOT operates day-ahead auctions for three market areas: Germany/Austria, France and Switzerland. The physical delivery of power takes place on the next day. EPEX SPOT provides also an intraday market for Germany and France. This market can be used to satisfy short-term needs of electricity or to sell short-term over capacities. Participants in the market can buy up to 45 minutes before every hour electricity for the specific hour. This market operates 24/7 without exceptions. The electricity for the next day can be traded from 15:00 onwards.\n\nIn 2011, EEX introduced 24/7 trading on the Natural Gas Spot Market. On the Spot Market, companies can trade natural gas on a continuous basis for the current day (within day), one day and two days in advance as well as for the following weekend. Since the launch of 24/7 trading EEX has also offered continuous trading with a minimum lot size of 1 MW (in addition to the 10 MW contracts). Short term gas quantities can be traded on the exchange for delivery in the market areas GASPOOL, NetConnect Germany (NCG) and the Dutch Title Transfer Facility (TTF) area.\n\nEEX offers also a spot market for EU allowances. Since 2005, EEX operates both spot and derivatives markets in emission allowances. EEX has offered trading of emission allowances on the basis of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) since 2005. EEX currently runs a secondary market for continuous trading on a Spot and Derivatives basis for EU ETS allowances (EUA, EUAA) and Kyoto credits (CER, ERU). As of March 26, 2008, it is possible to trade CER Futures on the EEX (Certified Emission Reductions), global emission credits in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol. On 14 April 2008 EEX and Eurex launched trading of options on EUA Futures. Since January 2010 EEX AG runs the auctioning of the Emission Allowances issued by the Federal Ministry of the Environment. All trading participants admitted to trading in emission allowances on EEX are able to take part in the auction without any further preconditions regarding licensing. From the very beginning, this also included all trading participants taking part in the existing Eurex cooperation on the Derivatives Market. In addition, EEX also carries out the EUA auctions for further countries (Poland, Hungary). The European Energy Exchange (EEX) has won the tendering procedure for the transitory auctioning platform for the EUA auctioned off by Germany for the third emissions trading period in February 2012 and it was chosen as cooperation exchange for the NER30 program of the European Investment Bank (EIB). As of 30 April 2012, emission allowances for the aviation industry (EU Aviation Allowances – EUAA) will also be offered for trading. Furthermore, Futures on Emission Reduction Units (ERU) will be launched at the end of April. In March, EEX extended the futures on Certified Emission Reductions (CER) for all maturities of the third trading period.\n\nParticipants on the EEX can trade power contracts (weeks, months, quarters, years) up to 6 years in the future. The Power Futures are financially settled contracts, but they can be physically delivered in Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands and Italy (Coming). Besides electricity also natural gas futures (market areas GASPOOL and NCG), financial coal futures and a broad range of derivatives (Futures on EUA, CER, EUAA and ERU) can be traded at the EEX-Derivatives market.\n\nFurthermore, Guarantees of Origin (GoOs) are tradable on the EEX derivatives market. GoOs are certificates which confirm that a given Megawatt Hour of power has been generated from renewable resources. These are exclusively issued for disclosure and transparency purposes and they are cancelled upon use. Trading in Guarantees of Origin on EEX is not connected with the delivery of power. Guarantees of Origin can be traded up to three years into the future. There are two maturities per year. EEX offers three products on the Derivatives Market:\n\nClearing and settlement of all exchange transactions is done by the European Commodity Clearing AG (ECC). ECC was founded in 2006 with the transfer of the EEX clearing activities to this subsidiary. Specialised on the physical delivery of energy products, ECC is dedicated clearing provider for six exchanges: European Energy Exchange (EEX), Central European Gas Hub AG (CEGH), EPEX SPOT, Hungarian Power Exchange (HUPX), POWER EXCHANGE CENTRAL EUROPE, and Powernext. Furthermore, EEX and ECC provide the service of Trade Registration. This service enables the trading participants and the trade registration participants to conclude transactions through registration by mutual agreement or to have over-the-counter transactions registered.\n\nEEX operates \"Transparency in Energy Markets”, the neutral platform for energy market data which fulfils the statutory publication requirements and implements the market participants’ voluntary commitments. The platform was established by EEX and the four German transmission system operators and launched in October 2009. In 2011, the Austrian transmission system operator Austrian Power Grid AG joined the cooperation. EEX is in charge of the operation of the platform, which comprises plausibility checking, anonymisation, aggregation and publication of the data reported.\n\nOn 2 September 2014, the European Energy Exchange (EEX) launched its new transparency site. At www.eex-transparency.com, visitors can gain access to comprehensive fundamental data and relevant information for wholesale energy trading. The website is a further development of the existing platform “Transparency in Energy Market” and contains information about capacity, utilization and availability of facilities for the production of electricity as well as new information on the storage of electricity and natural gas consumption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52952954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52952954", "title": "F Cygni", "text": "F Cygni\n\nThe Bayer designation f Cygni is shared by two stars in the constellation Cygnus:\n"}
{"id": "3994331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3994331", "title": "Flue-gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion", "text": "Flue-gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion\n\nFlue-gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion refers to the combustion-product gas resulting from the burning of fossil fuels. Most fossil fuels are combusted with ambient air (as differentiated from combustion with pure oxygen). Since ambient air contains about 79 volume percent gaseous nitrogen (N), which is essentially non-combustible, the largest part of the flue gas from most fossil-fuel combustion is uncombusted nitrogen. Carbon dioxide (), the next largest part of flue gas, can be as much as 10−25 volume percent or more of the flue gas. This is closely followed in volume by water vapor (HO) created by the combustion of the hydrogen in the fuel with atmospheric oxygen. Much of the 'smoke' seen pouring from flue gas stacks is this water vapor forming a cloud as it contacts cool air.\n\nA typical flue gas from the combustion of fossil fuels contains very small amounts of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO) and particulate matter. The nitrogen oxides are derived from the nitrogen in the ambient air as well as from any nitrogen-containing compounds in the fossil fuel. The sulfur dioxide is derived from any sulfur-containing compounds in the fuels. The particulate matter is composed of very small particles of solid materials and very small liquid droplets which give flue gases their smoky appearance.\n\nThe steam generators in large power plants and the process furnaces in large refineries, petrochemical and chemical plants, and incinerators burn considerable amounts of fossil fuels and therefore emit large amounts of flue gas to the ambient atmosphere. The table below presents the total amounts of flue gas typically generated by the burning of fossil fuels such as natural gas, fuel oil and coal. The data were obtained by stoichiometric\ncalculations.\n\nIt is of interest to note that the total amount of wet flue gas generated by coal combustion is only 10 percent higher than the flue gas generated by natural-gas combustion (the ratio for dry flue gas is higher).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23092863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23092863", "title": "Fractional anisotropy", "text": "Fractional anisotropy\n\nFractional anisotropy (FA) is a scalar value between zero and one that describes the degree of anisotropy of a diffusion process. A value of zero means that diffusion is isotropic, i.e. it is unrestricted (or equally restricted) in all directions. A value of one means that diffusion occurs only along one axis and is fully restricted along all other directions. FA is a measure often used in diffusion imaging where it is thought to reflect fiber density, axonal diameter, and myelination in white matter. The FA is an extension of the concept of eccentricity of conic sections in 3 dimensions, normalized to the unit range.\n\nA Diffusion Ellipsoid is completely represented by the Diffusion Tensor, D. FA is calculated from the eigenvalues (formula_1) of the diffusion tensor. The eigenvectors formula_2 give the directions in which the ellipsoid has major axes, and the corresponding eigenvalues formula_3 give the magnitude of the peak in that direction.\n\nwith formula_5 being the mean value of the eigenvalues.\n\nAn equivalent formula for FA is\n\nwhich is further equivalent to:\n\nwhere R is the \"normalized\" diffusion tensor:\n\nNote that if all the eigenvalues are equal, which happens for isotropic (spherical) diffusion, as in free water, the FA is . The FA can reach a maximum value of (this rarely happens in real data), in which case D has only one nonzero eigenvalue and the ellipsoid reduces to a line in the direction of that eigenvector. This means that the diffusion is confined to that direction alone.\n\nThis can be visualized with an ellipsoid, which is defined by the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of D. The FA of a sphere is \"0\" since the diffusion is isotropic, and there is equal probability of diffusion in all directions. The eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the Diffusion Tensor give a complete representation of the diffusion process. FA quantifies the pointedness of the ellipsoid, but does not give information about which direction it is pointing to.\n\nNote that the FA of most liquids, including water, is unless the diffusion process is being constrained by structures such as network of fibers. The measured FA may depend on the effective length scale of the diffusion measurement. If the diffusion process is not constrained on the scale being measured (the constraints are too far apart) or the constraints switch direction on a smaller scale than the measured one, then the measured FA will be attenuated. For example, the brain can be thought of as a fluid permeated by many fibers (nerve axons). However, in most parts the fibers go in all directions, and thus although they constrain the diffusion the FA is . In some regions, such as the corpus callosum the fibers are aligned over a large enough scale (on the order of a mm) for their directions to mostly agree within the resolution element of a magnetic resonance image, and it is these regions that stand out in an FA image. Liquid crystals can also exhibit anisotropic diffusion because the needle or plate-like shapes of their molecules affect how they slide over one another. When the FA is 0 the tensor nature of D is often ignored, and it is called the diffusion constant.\n\nA drawback of the Diffusion Tensor model is that it can account only for Gaussian diffusion processes, which has been found to be inadequate in accurately representing the true diffusion process in the human brain. Due to this, higher order models using spherical harmonics and Orientation Distribution Functions (ODF) have been used to define newer and richer estimates of the anisotropy, called Generalized Fractional Anisotropy. GFA computations use samples of the ODF to evaluate the anisotropy in diffusion. They can also be easily calculated by using the Spherical Harmonic coefficients of the ODF model.\n"}
{"id": "25967724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25967724", "title": "Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea", "text": "Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea\n\nFramework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea is a regional convention signed by the official representatives of the five littoral Caspian states: Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russian Federation and Turkmenistan in Tehran (Iran) on 4 November 2003. The Framework Convention, also called Tehran Convention, entered into force on 12 August 2006.\n\nThe objective of this convention is “the protection of the Caspian environment from all sources of pollution including the protection, preservation, restoration and sustainable and rational use of the biological resources of the Caspian Sea”.\n\nIn accordance with Articles 7 - 11 of the Convention the Parties undertake an obligation to take measures to prevent, reduce and control pollution from the land-based sources, seabed activities, vessels, as well as pollution from other human activities including land reclamation and associated coastal dredging and construction of dams.\n\nConvention also provides for appropriate measures to prevent the introduction into the Caspian Sea and to control and combat invasive alien species, which threaten ecosystems, habitats or species.\n\nThe Parties also take preventive, preparedness and response measures to protect the environment and human beings from consequences of natural and man-made environmental emergencies, cooperate in setting up early warning systems and ensure the availability of adequate equipment and qualified personnel for combatting environmental emergencies. The Parties also agree to carry out environmental impact assessments of hazardous activities capable of causing environmental emergencies or adverse effects on environment within their jurisdiction.\n\nThe Parties also undertake to ensure the protection, preservation, restoration and rational use of marine biological resources in the Caspian Sea; strive to maintain or restore populations of marine species at levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield; prevent over-exploitation of marine resources and protect endemic, rare and endangered marine species and vulnerable ecosystems.\n\nThe 2003 Convention also provides for cooperation of the Parties in environmental monitoring, developing harmonised discharge and emission standards, conducting environmental research and development and exchanging environmental information.\n\nA regularly convened Conference of the Parties and Secretariat were established by the Tehran Convention.\n\nTo date, the following four Protocols to the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea were drafted by Secretariat and discussed at the meetings of the Conference of the Parties:\n\n\nThe Protocol Concerning Regional Preparedness, Response and Co-operation in Combating Oil Pollution Incidents was adopted in Aktau, Kazakhstan on August 12, 2011.\n\nThe Protocol for the Protection of the Caspian Sea against Pollution from Land-based Sources and Activities was signed in Moscow, Russian Federation, on December 12, 2012 at the 4th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Tehran Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "90771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90771", "title": "Grand Bois (loa)", "text": "Grand Bois (loa)\n\nGrand Bois (meaning \"great wood\", also Grans Bwa, Bran Bwa, Ganga-Bois) is an elemental, nature-oriented loa closely associated with trees, plants and herbs in Haitian Vodou. Offerings to him include leaves and herbs, honey, and spiced rum. As a Petro Loa and Loa of the wilderness he can be fierce and unpredictable in some aspects. \n\nGrand Bois, Maitre Carrefour (Master Crossroads), and Baron Cimetière (Baron Cemetery) form the Triad of Magicians. They represent the journey of life: \"Grand Bois\" represents the rich earth that you spring from and the dark woods you stumble through, \"Maitre Carrefour\" represents the various roads and paths you choose to travel on, and \"Baron Cimitère\" represents the end of the trip. \n\nGrand Bois is represented by Saint Sebastian as his Catholic counterpart. His colors are commonly shades of green (sometimes including red in some Houses).\n\n"}
{"id": "17183079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17183079", "title": "IMS-1", "text": "IMS-1\n\nIMS-1 is an Earth observation satellite in a sun-synchronous orbit. The satellite which is the fourteenth satellite in the Indian Remote Sensing (IRS) satellite series has been built, launched and maintained by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). IMS-1 is the first satellite to use ISRO's Indian Mini Satellite bus.\n\nIt was launched by the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle - C9 on April 28, 2008 along with the Cartosat-2A and eight nano research satellites belonging to research facilities in Canada, Denmark, Germany, Japan and the Netherlands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3265794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3265794", "title": "Institute of Nuclear and New Energy Technology", "text": "Institute of Nuclear and New Energy Technology\n\nThe Institute of Nuclear and New Energy Technology (INET; ) is an important energy research institute located in Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. The current Institute director is Zhang Zuoyi (张作义).\n\nIt was founded in 1960 as a top nuclear research centre. It is located in the northern suburbs of Beijing near Changping tiger village.\n\nIn 1964, Tsinghua University researchers developed an independently designed reactor, completed the power pile shield experiment. The department made the most important contribution for the Chinese nuclear power industry as they develop nuclear fuel post-processing technologies.\n\nInstitute of Nuclear and New Energy Technology covers approximately 740,000 square meters in total. The actual floor space 100,000 square meters, have one floor space 5,000 square meters scientific researches in the school use the office building—to be able the branch building.\n\nThe institute is equipped with 17 laboratories, 14 laboratories, and the courtyard manages the enterprise and the production workshop. Has one double reactor core of the swimming pool type reactor, one shell type low temperature heating experiment reactor, one high temperature air cooled experiment piles, one set of 900 megawatt water-cooled reactors nuclear power stations simulator.\n\nThe institute offers 11 disciplines. It also offers nuclear power science and security as a discipline for domestic leading key discipline. The institute teaching and administrative staff consist of 470 people, include Chinese Academy of Science academician 1 person. It also has 20 experts, 34 people PhD postgraduate, 58 full-time professors, 104 associate professor.\n\nAfter 30 years, the institute has achieved ten national key scientific researches task, yields one batch of important scientific researches results. It has been awarded 160 achievements win the ministries and commissions level science and technology achievement prize, 18 achievements win the national level prize. It has also been awarded 139 patents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57399167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57399167", "title": "Irazú (satellite)", "text": "Irazú (satellite)\n\nIrazú is the first Costa Rican satellite to be launched into space. The nano satellite was launched into space on 2 April 2018, onboard a Falcon 9 rocket headed for the International Space Station. It is expected to orbit the earth for six months with the function of monitoring carbon, humidity, and temperature levels in Costa Rican forests. Funds for the launch of satellite was provided, in a significant part, through a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign. \n\nThe design, development, and financing of the Irazú satellite involved the Central American Association for Aeronautics (ACAE), based in Costa Rica, and engineers from the Costa Rica Institute of Technology. Fifteen professors and students from Costa Rica Institute of Technology and from the National Training Institute worked on the project. \n\nThe 10-centimeter square \"nano\" satellite will monitor temperature, humidity, and carbon dioxide fixation with the purpose of climate change analysis. Building the satellite from its individual component took six months and required an additional six months for testing. After the initial testing period, Irazú was sent to Japan where it was further tested at the Kyushu Institute of Technology. It was later sent to the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency for onward delivery to NASA. \n\nThe total cost of the project was US$500,000 with much of the money coming from ACAE. The Costa Rica Institute of Technology was tasked to provide the final $75,000 needed to complete the last stages of construction, testing and deployment into space. The institute turned to crowdfunding to raise the expected amount. Through Kickstarter, about 800 donors from all over the world helped to raise the funds needed.\n\nOn 2 April 2018, the satellite was carried to the International Space Station (ISS) onboard a Falcon 9 rocket with help from NASA. It was deployed from the space station into its orbit from the KIBO satellite deployment module on 11 May 2018. Its launch coincided with two other satellites namely Ubakusat and 1KUNS-PF. All three satellites were deployed into space from the ISS by Japanese astronaut Norishige Kanai through the Kibo module. The satellite orbits the Earth at a height of about above the earth and will be in service for six months.\n\nIrazú communicates with two earth stations: the experimental station at San Carlos, and the monitoring station on the central Campus of Costa Rica Institute of Technology in Cartago. At the monitoring station, information will be relayed from space concerning the level of tree growth in the country. The data will be used to determine the approximate carbon fixation rate of Costa Rican forests.\n"}
{"id": "47910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47910", "title": "Jordan River", "text": "Jordan River\n\nThe Jordan River (also River Jordan; \"Nahar ha-Yarden, ,\" \"Nahr al-Urdunn\", Ancient Greek: Ιορδάνης, \"Iordànes\") is a river in the Middle East that flows roughly north to south through the Sea of Galilee (Hebrew: כנרת Kinneret, Arabic: Bohayrat Tabaraya, meaning Lake of Tiberias) and on to the Dead Sea. Jordan and the Golan Heights border the river to the east, while the West Bank and Israel lie to its west. Both Jordan and the West Bank take their names from the river.\n\nThe river has a major significance in Judaism and Christianity since many believe that the Israelites crossed it into the Promised Land and that Jesus of Nazareth was baptised by John the Baptist in it.\n\nThe Jordan River has an upper course from its sources to the Sea of Galilee, and a lower course south of the Sea of Galilee down to the Dead Sea. In traditional terminology, the upper course (or most of it) is commonly referred to as passing through the \"Hula Valley\", as opposed to \"Upper Jordan Valley\"; the Sea of Galilee through which the river passes is a separate entity; and the term Jordan Valley is reserved for the lower course.\n\nOver its upper course, the river drops rapidly in a run to the once large and swampy Lake Hula, which is slightly above sea level. Exiting the now much diminished lake, it goes through an even steeper drop over the down to the Sea of Galilee, which it enters at its northern end. The Jordan deposits much of the silt it is carrying within the lake, which it leaves again near its southern tip. At that point the river is situated about 210 metres below sea level. The last -long section follows what is commonly termed the \"Jordan Valley\", which has less gradient (the total drop is another 210 metres) so that the river meanders before entering the Dead Sea, a terminal lake about 422 metres below sea level with no outlet. Two major tributaries enter from the east during this last section: the Yarmouk River and Zarqa River.\n\nIts section north of the Sea of Galilee is within the boundaries of Israel, and forms the western boundary of the Golan Heights. South of the lake, it forms the border between the Kingdom of Jordan (to the east), and Israel (to the west).\n\nThe streams coming together to create the River Jordan in its upper basin are, west to east:\nSouth of the Sea of Galilee the Jordan River receives the waters of further tributaries, the main ones being\nSmaller tributaries in this segment are\n\nWhile several hypotheses for the origin of the river's name have been proposed, the most accepted is that it comes from Semitic Yard|on 'flow down' <√ירד reflecting the river's declivity. Cognates of the word are found in Aramaic, Hebrew, and other Semitic languages. The first recorded use of the name appears as \"Yārdon\" in Anastasi I, an ancient Egyptian papyrus that probably dates to the time of Rameses II. Early Arab chronicles referred to the river as \"Al-Urdunn\".\n\nIn the 19th century the River Jordan and the Dead Sea were explored by boat primarily by Christopher Costigan in 1835, Thomas Howard Molyneux in 1847, William Francis Lynch in 1848, and John MacGregor in 1869. The full text of W. F. Lynch's 1849 book \"\" is available online.\nIn 1964, Israel began operating a pumping station that diverts water from the Sea of Galilee to the National Water Carrier. Also in 1964, Jordan constructed a channel that diverted water from the Yarmouk River, another main tributary of the Jordan River to the East Ghor Canal. Syria has also built reservoirs that catch the Yarmouk's waters. Environmentalists blame Israel, Jordan and Syria for extensive damage to the Jordan River ecosystem.\n\nIn modern times, the waters are 70% to 90% used for human purposes and the flow is greatly reduced. Because of this and the high evaporation rate of the Dead Sea, as well as industrial extraction of salts through evaporation ponds, the sea is shrinking. All the shallow waters of the southern end of the sea have been drained in modern times and are now salt flats.\n\nA small section of the northernmost portion of the Lower Jordan, the first ca. below the Sea of Galilee, has been kept pristine for baptism and local tourism. Most polluted is the 100-kilometre downstream stretch—a meandering stream from above the confluence with the Yarmouk to the Dead Sea. Environmentalists say the practice of letting sewage and brackish water flow into the river has almost destroyed its ecosystem. Rescuing the Jordan could take decades, according to environmentalists. In 2007, Friends of the Earth Middle East (FoEME) named the Jordan River as one of the world's 100 most endangered ecological sites, due in part to lack of cooperation between Israel and neighboring Arab states. The same environmentalist organization had said in a report that the Jordan River could dry up by 2011 unless the decay was stopped. The flow rate of the Jordan River once was 1.3 billion cubic metres per year; as of 2010, just 20 to 30 million cubic metres per year flow into the Dead Sea.\n\nRecent literature shows the role of power asymmetries and of discourses and narratives in shaping hydropolitics along the Jordan River Basin.\n\nRoute 90, part of which is named after Rehavam Zeevi, connects the northern and southern tips of the Israeli-occupied West Bank and parallels the Jordan River on the western side.\n\nThere are two border crossings between Israel and Jordan which cross the river over bridges. The northern one, Jordan River Crossing or Sheikh Hussein Bridge is near Beit She'an; the southern one, Allenby Bridge (also King Hussein Bridge), is near Jericho.\n\nFrom the bridges crossing the river within Israel, the most famous one is the Bnot Ya'akov Bridge (Hebrew: Gesher Bnot Ya'akov, \"Daughters of Jacob Bridge\").\n\nAnother closed bridge is the King Abdullah Bridge south of the Allenby Bridge.\n\nThe waters of the Jordan River are the second largest water resource for Israel, desalination of sea water from the Mediterranean being the first. Israel's National Water Carrier, completed in 1964, delivers water from the Sea of Galilee to the Israeli coastal plain.\n\nJordan receives of water from the river, a quantity which is regulated by the 1994 peace treaty with Israel. In the past, one of the main water resources in Jordan was the Jordan River, with a flow of 1.3 billion m3 per year (BCM/yr). However, after Israel built the National Water Carrier in 1953 and diverted water from Lake Tiberias to Israel’s coastal plains and southern desert, the flow of the Lower Jordan River dropped significantly. The 50 MCM/yr that Israel provides from Lake Tiberias as part of the 1994 peace treaty was meant to compensate for this loss. A 2010 study found that the Lower Jordan River has been reduced to 2% of its historic flow. Water quality has also deteriorated sharply, with high levels of salinity and pollution from agricultural fertilizer and untreated wastewater upstream in Israel and the West Bank.\n\nConflict about the waters of the Jordan River was a contributing factor to the Six-Day War when, starting in 1965, Syria attempted to divert some of its headwaters in collaboration with Lebanon and Jordan. The diversion works would have reduced the water availability for Israel's carrier by about 35%, and Israel's overall water supply by about 11%.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible the Jordan is referred to as the source of fertility of a large plain (\"Kikkar ha-Yarden\"), said to be watered like \"the garden of the LORD\" (Genesis ). There is no regular description of the Jordan in the Bible; only scattered and indefinite references to it are given. Jacob crossed it and its tributary, the Jabbok (the modern Al-Zarqa), on his way back from Haran (, ). It is noted as the line of demarcation between the \"two tribes and the half tribe\" settled to the east (Numbers ) and the \"nine tribes and the half tribe of Manasseh\" that, led by Joshua, settled to the west (, passim). \n\nOpposite Jericho, it was called \"the Jordan of Jericho\" (; ). The Jordan has a number of fords, and one of them is famous as the place where many Ephraimites were slain by Jephthah (Judges ). It seems that these are the same fords mentioned as being near Beth-barah, where Gideon lay in wait for the Midianites (). In the plain of the Jordan, between Succoth and Zarthan, is the clay ground where Solomon had his brass-foundries (1 Kings ). In the Jordan valley is portrayed as a woodland region. Biblical commentator Albert Barnes suggested that \"trees were rare in most parts of Palestine, but plentiful in the Jordan Valley\".\n\nIn biblical history, the Jordan appears as the scene of several miracles, the first taking place when the Jordan, near Jericho, was crossed by the Israelites under Joshua (). Later the two tribes and the half tribe that settled east of the Jordan built a large altar on its banks as \"a witness\" between them and the other tribes (, , et seq.). The Jordan was crossed by Elijah and Elisha on dry ground (, ). The prophet and wonder-worker Elisha performed two miracles at the Jordan: he healed Naaman's leprosy by having him bathe in its waters (), and he made an axe head lost by one of the \"children of the prophets\" float, by throwing a piece of wood into the water ().\n\nThe New Testament states that John the Baptist baptised unto repentance in the Jordan (–; Mark; Luke ; John). These acts of Baptism are also reported as having taken place at Bethabara ().\n\nJesus came to be baptised by him there (; ; , ). The Jordan is also where John the Baptist bore record of Jesus as the Son of God and Lamb of God ().\n\nThe prophecy of Isaiah regarding the Messiah which names the Jordan () is also reported in .\n\nThe New Testament speaks several times about Jesus crossing the Jordan during his ministry (; ), and of believers crossing the Jordan to come hear him preach and to be healed of their diseases (; ). When his enemies sought to capture him, Jesus took refuge at Jordan in the place John had first baptised ().\n\nEvidence from scriptures and archaeological findings has concluded that the site called Al-Maghtas on the Jordanian side is the most accurate location for the Baptism of Jesus and the ministry of John. This has led to choosing Al-Maghtas as a UNESCO World Heritage site, which took place in 2015.\n\nThe Jordan is a frequent symbol in folk, gospel, and spiritual music, and in poetic and literary works.\n\nBecause, according to Jewish tradition, the Israelites made a difficult and hazardous journey from slavery in Egypt to freedom in the Promised Land, the Jordan can refer to freedom. The actual crossing is the final step of the journey, which is then complete.\n\nBecause of the baptism of Jesus, water from the Jordan is employed for the christening of heirs and princes in several Christian royal houses, such as the cases of Prince George of Cambridge, Simeon of Bulgaria and James Ogilvy.\n\nThe baptism of Jesus is referred to in a hymn by the reformer Martin Luther, \"\" (1541), base for a cantata by Johann Sebastian Bach, (1724).\n\nThe Jordan River, due primarily to its rich spiritual importance, has provided inspiration for countless songs, hymns, and stories, including the traditional African-American spiritual/folk songs \"Michael Row the Boat Ashore\", \"Deep River\", and \"Roll, Jordan, Roll\". It is mentioned in the songs \"Eve of Destruction\", \"Will You Be There\", and \"The Wayfaring Stranger\" and in \"Ol' Man River\" from the musical \"Show Boat\". \"The Far Side Banks of Jordan\" by Johnny Cash and June Carter Cash on June's Grammy Award-winning studio album, \"Press On\", mentions the Jordan River as well as the Promised Land. Jordan River is also the subject of roots reggae artist Burning Spear's song of the same title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223693", "title": "Lambay Island", "text": "Lambay Island\n\nLambay, sometimes referred to as Lambay Island (; called in ) lies in the Irish Sea off the coast of north County Dublin in Ireland. It is offshore from the headland at Portrane and is the easternmost point of the province of Leinster.\n\nSimilarly named places are Lamba in the Faroe Islands and Lamba in Shetland.\n\nPtolemy's \"Geography\" (2nd century AD) described an island called Εδρου (\"Edrou\"). PIE *\"sed\"- ‘to sit, settle’ had descendants in many languages,\nincluding Greek ἑδρα (\"hedra\") ‘sitting place’ whose many specific uses included ‘base for ships’.\n\nLambay Island is the largest island off the east coast of Ireland and is about 2.5 square kilometres (240 hectares or 593.1 acres) in size. Its highest point rises to 127 metres (416.7 feet). There are steep cliffs on the northern, eastern, and southern sides of the island, with a more low-lying western shore. The geology is dominated by igneous rocks, with shales and limestones. There are a small number of wells and streams.\n\nThere is a private harbour on the western shore, and there are a small number of buildings nearby including a bothy, coastguard cottages and a real tennis court.\n\nA small late 16th-century fort with battlemented gables, possibly incorporating a 15th-century blockhouse, on the island was transformed by Sir Edwin Lutyens into a romantic castle for the Hon. Cecil Baring, afterwards 3rd Lord Revelstoke. Baring had been working in the USA when he fell in love with the wife of one of his co-directors. She divorced her husband and married Baring. He bought the island for £5,250 in 1904 as a place to escape to with his beautiful young wife, Maude Louise Lorillard, the daughter of Pierre Lorillard, the first American to win The Derby. The story of their early life on the island inspired Julian Slade’s musical \"Free as Air\".\n\nLutyens made the old fort habitable and built a quadrangle of kitchens, bathrooms and extra bedrooms adjoining it, with roofs of grey Dutch pantiles sweeping down almost to the ground. He also built a circular curtain wall or enceinte surrounding the castle and its garden, with an impressive bastioned gateway; this wall serves the practical purpose of a wind break, enabling trees and plants to grow inside it – which would not grow outside. Everything is of a silvery grey stone. The rooms in the castle have vaulted ceilings and stone fireplaces; there is a stone staircase with many curves and an underground gallery in the new quadrangle which might have been conceived by Piranesi. According to the Revelstoke records on the island, Lambay Castle is also the location where Michael Powell wrote his screenplay for Black Narcissus (1947).\n\nLutyens also designed the approach from the harbour, with curved step-like terraces reminiscent of the now-vanished Ripetta in Rome and a series of ellipses, circles being a long-standing symbol of welcome and also of wholeness. Characteristically, having ascended those Baroque steps, one has to cross an open field to come to the curtain wall, the entrance gateway not being at first visible; so there is a sense of expectancy.\n\nClose to the harbour is the White House, a largely horse-shoe shaped house with high roofs and whitewashed walls, which Lutyens designed in the 1930s for Lord Revelstoke's daughters Daphne and Calypso and their families, while the castle and island were left to his only son Rupert Baring. On a small cliff-top near the White House is an old Catholic chapel, with a portico of tapering stone columns (also added by Lutyens) and a barrel vaulted ceiling. Inside are various religious symbols and artefacts made by members of the family, including the little stain-glass window.\n\nThe island supports one of the largest and most important seabird colonies in Ireland, with over 50,000 common guillemots, 5,000 kittiwakes, 3,500 razorbills, 2,500 pairs of herring gulls, as well as smaller numbers of puffins, Manx shearwaters, fulmars, greylag geese and many other species.\n\nAmong the mammals of the island are Atlantic Great grey seals (Ireland's only east coast colony ), which pup on the island itself; wild red-necked wallabies (introduced by Rupert Baring in the 1950s, augmented by a surplus from Dublin Zoo in the 1980s, numbering perhaps around 100 in 2017), and introduced fallow deer (a herd of about 200). There is also a herd of farmed cattle on the island. Rockabill and Lambay islands are the best places in County Dublin to see harbour porpoises.\n\nThe island is still privately owned by the Baring family trust. The medieval castle is the only Lutyens-designed home, together with the Liria Palace in Madrid, which is still in the occupation and ownership of the original family that commissioned it. Alex Baring (7th Baron Revelstoke) is currently in occupation. The farm has accepted WWOOFers as volunteers in the past. The estate includes domestic extensions to the old Castle, a row of Coastguard cottages, the Bothy, the White House (family guesthouse), a harbour and boathouse and a distinctive open-air real tennis court, the only one remaining in Ireland (there was one in the old University College Dublin complex on Earlsfort Terrace). There is also the farm with cottages, and the Chapel is located on an isolated promontory. All architecture was either designed or renovated by Sir Edwin Lutyens.\n\nDue to its deep surrounding waters, the island attracts scuba divers and fishermen, as well as lobster-potters. The island is accessible by invitation only, mainly from Malahide Marina and occasionally Rogerstown Pier, Rush and Skerries Harbour all north of Dublin.\n\nThe island was important in the Neolithic period in Ireland as a ground stone axe quarrying and production site. Two outcrops of andesite, or \"Lambay porphyry\" as it is more commonly known, were utilised. The quarry site is unusual in Ireland for being the only Neolithic stone axe quarry with evidence for all stages of production, from quarrying to final polishing.\n\nThe ancient Roman writer Pliny and the ancient Greek Ptolemy knew about the island and referred to it as \"Limnus\" or \"Limni\". Its Irish name, \"Reachra\", was eventually joined by a Norse name based on the root word \"ey\" for island. The name \"Lambey\" probably originated with the practice of sending over ewes to the island in spring to lamb in a predator-free environment. The belief that the fore part of the name in Norse is from the word \"lamb\" makes perfect sense, but may be a later rationalisation for a name based on whatever the name of the island was at the time of Pliny and Ptolemy and the word \"ey\". The Irish name for the nearby coastal area of Portrane, \"Port Reachrainn\", originated from its position facing the island.\n\nA number of Iron Age burials were discovered on the island in 1927 during works on the island's harbour. The finds included a number of Romano-British items, and the site has been interpreted as evidence for the arrival of a small group of refugees from Brigantia, fleeing the Romans from 71 to 74.\n\nSt. Columba is said to have established a monastic settlement on Lambay  530 AD, and Ireland's Viking age began with a raid on this settlement. The raid, marked by the pillaging of the island's church and the burning of its buildings, took place in 795. (\"The burning of Reachrainn by plunderers; and its shrines were broken and plundered.\") \nSurveying in the 20th century found remains of an enclosure to the south of the present chapel, and suggestions of a connected moated site (the present chapel was renovated by Sir Edwin Lutyens in the early 20th century).\n\nSitric, a Danish King of Dublin, granted Lambay to Christ Church Cathedral, and in 1181 Prince John granted it to the Archbishops of Dublin. This was reconfirmed by King Edward in 1337 and by King Richard in 1394. A later archbishop gave the rents of the island to the nuns of Grace Dieu for the upkeep of their monastery and school. He also gave the tithes of the Lambay rabbits to the nuns and at that time the rabbit taxes were worth 100 shillings a year.\n\nIn 1467, it was provided by statute that the Earl of Worcester, then Lord Deputy, be granted Lambay to build a fortress for England's protection against the Spaniards, French and Scots. Worcester paid the Archbishop of Dublin 40 shillings per annum and though he had a licence to build a castle on Lambay it is not certain that it was actually built.\n\nDuring the reformation, Archbishop Brown granted the Island to John Challoner for a rent of £6.13.4. The conditions were that Challoner would within six years build a village, castle and harbour for the benefit of fishermen and as a protection against smugglers. He was to inhabit Lambay \"with a colony of honest men\". He was a very active man who worked four mines for silver and copper and bred falcons on the island's many cliffs.\n\nChalloner still owned Lambay in Elizabethan times but in 1611 the island was granted to Sir William Ussher and his heirs. James Ussher, later the Anglican Archbishop of Armagh, lived on Lambay in 1626 but by 1650 he was resident in London. He was highly respected by Cromwell and today lies buried in Westminster Abbey. The Ussher family held the island for 200 years. In the 17th century there was some exploratory lead or copper mining.\n\nDuring the Williamite war in Ireland, the island was used as an internment camp for Irish soldiers. More than one thousand of them were imprisoned there after the Battle of Aughrim in 1691 and some died of wounds and starvation.\n\nIn 1805, the leasehold of Lambay was inherited by Sir William Wolseley, and in 1814 it was acquired by the Talbot family of Malahide. In 1860 the existing farmers were removed and replaced with English and Scottish tenants.\n\nHaving sold nearby Portrane House, Count James Consedine bought Lambay in 1888, developing the island for hunting. In turn, the Baring family of banking fame bought Lambay Island in 1904 for £5,250 pounds (depending on different sources). Cecil Baring hired Sir Edwin Lutyens to work on renovation of the island's main residence, the 15th Century fort, and surrounds. Lutyens became a firm friend of the island and continued to return there throughout his life, adding to his architectural designs and renovations over the course of 30 years or so. Cecil Baring became Lord Revelstoke in 1929 and died in 1934. He and his beloved wife Maude Lorillard are buried in the family Mausoleum on Lambay, along with their son Rupert Baring and grandsons John and James Baring. The Mausoleum, also designed by Lutyens, forms part of the circular rampart wall around the Castle and is engraved with a poem Cecil wrote in memory of Maude when she died.\n\nThe island has claimed a number of shipwrecks, one of the most notable of which was RMS \"Tayleur\". One of the largest merchant ships of her day, she struck the island on 21 January 1854 just hours into her maiden voyage from Liverpool to Perth, Australia and sank with the loss of 380 lives.\n\nLambay was the landing site of the winners of the 1921 Gordon Bennett Gas Balloon Race. The pilots were Captains Armbruster and Ansermier, both Swiss. They took off from Brussels, Belgium, and flew 756 kilometres with a maximum altitude of 3,600 metres during their flight of 27 hours and 23 minutes.\n\nLambay Island was Protestant majority until the early 20th century.\n\nThe table below reports data on Lambay's population taken from \"Discover the Islands of Ireland\" (Alex Ritsema, Collins Press, 1999) and the Census of Ireland. Census data in Ireland before 1841 are not considered complete and/or reliable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "531385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531385", "title": "Lee wave", "text": "Lee wave\n\nIn meteorology, lee waves are atmospheric stationary waves. The most common form is mountain waves, which are atmospheric internal gravity waves. These were discovered in 1933 by two German glider pilots, Hans Deutschmann and Wolf Hirth, above the Krkonoše.\nThey are periodic changes of atmospheric pressure, temperature and orthometric height in a current of air caused by vertical displacement, for example orographic lift when the wind blows over a mountain or mountain range. They can also be caused by the surface wind blowing over an escarpment or plateau, or even by upper winds deflected over a thermal updraft or cloud street.\n\nThe vertical motion forces periodic changes in speed and direction of the air within this air current. They always occur in groups on the lee side of the terrain that triggers them. Sometimes, mountain waves can help to enhance precipitation amounts downwind of mountain ranges. Usually a turbulent vortex, with its axis of rotation parallel to the mountain range, is generated around the first trough; this is called a rotor. The strongest lee waves are produced when the lapse rate shows a stable layer above the obstruction, with an unstable layer above and below.\n\nLee waves are a form of internal gravity waves produced when stably stratified flow is forced over an obstacle. This disturbance elevates air parcels above their level of neutral buoyancy. Buoyancy restoring forces therefore act to excite vertical oscillation of the perturbed air parcels at the Brunt-Väisäla frequency, which for the atmosphere is:\n\nformula_1, where formula_2 is the vertical profile of potential temperature.\n\nOscillations tilted off the vertical axis at an angle of formula_3 will occur at a lower frequency of formula_4. These air parcel oscillations occur in concert, parallel to the wave fronts (lines of constant phase). These wave fronts represent extrema in the perturbed pressure field (i.e., lines of lowest and highest pressure), while the areas between wave fronts represent extrema in the perturbed buoyancy field (i.e., areas most rapidly gaining or losing buoyancy).\n\nEnergy is transmitted along the wave fronts (parallel to air parcel oscillations), which is the direction of the wave group velocity. In contrast, the phase propagation (or phase speed) of the waves points perpendicular to energy transmission (or group velocity).\n\nBoth lee waves and the rotor may be indicated by specific wave cloud formations if there is sufficient moisture in the atmosphere, and sufficient vertical displacement to cool the air to the dew point. Waves may also form in dry air without cloud markers. Wave clouds do not move downwind as clouds usually do, but remain fixed in position relative to the obstruction that forms them.\n\n\nLee waves provide a possibility for gliders to gain altitude or fly long distances when soaring. World record wave flight performances for speed, distance or altitude have been made in the lee of the Sierra Nevada, Alps, Patagonic Andes, and Southern Alps mountain ranges. The Perlan Project is working to demonstrate the viability of climbing above the tropopause in an unpowered glider using lee waves, making the transition into stratospheric standing waves. They did this for the first time on August 30, 2006 in Argentina, climbing to an altitude of . The Mountain Wave Project of the Organisation Scientifique et Technique du Vol à Voile focusses on analysis and classification of lee waves and associated rotors.\n\nThe conditions favoring strong lee waves suitable for soaring are:\n\n\nThe rotor turbulence may be harmful for other small aircraft such as balloons, hang gliders and paragliders. It can even be a hazard for large aircraft; the phenomenon is believed responsible for many aviation accidents and incidents, including the in-flight breakup of BOAC Flight 911, a Boeing 707, near Mt. Fuji, Japan in 1966, and the in-flight separation of an engine on an Evergreen International Airlines Boeing 747 cargo jet near Anchorage, Alaska in 1993.\n\nThe rising air of the wave, which allows gliders to climb to great heights, can also result in high altitude upset in jet aircraft trying to maintain level cruising flight in lee waves. Rising, descending or turbulent air in or above the lee waves can cause overspeed or stall, resulting in mach tuck and loss of control, especially when the aircraft is operated near the \"coffin corner\".\n\nThere are a variety of distinctive types of waves which form under different atmospheric conditions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44972331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44972331", "title": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2015", "text": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2015\n\nBelow is the list of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2015.\n\nA list of known near-Earth asteroid close approaches less than 1 lunar distance (384,400 km or 0.00256 AU) from Earth in 2015.\n\nNote this data does not include any of the 43 objects that collided with earth in 2015, none of which were discovered in advance, but were recorded by sensors designed to detect detonation of nuclear devices (of the 43 objects detected, 2 had an impact energy greater than that of a 1 kiloton device) .\n\nAn example list of near-Earth asteroids that passed more than 1 lunar distance (384,400 km or 0.00256 AU) from Earth in 2015.\n\nThe number of asteroids listed here are significantly less than those of asteroids approaching Earth for several reasons:\n\nThese factors combined severely limit the amount of Moon-approaching asteroids, to a level many times lower than the detected asteroids to pass just as close to Earth instead.\n\n"}
{"id": "1654614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654614", "title": "List of edible seeds", "text": "List of edible seeds\n\nAn edible seed is a seed that is suitable for human or animal consumption. Of the six major plant parts, seeds are the dominant source of human calories and protein. A wide variety of plant species provide edible seeds; most are angiosperms, while a few are gymnosperms. As a global food source, the most important edible seeds by weight are cereals, followed by legumes and then nuts.\n\nCereals and legumes correspond with the botanical families Poaceae and Fabaceae, respectively, while nuts, pseudocereals, and other seeds form polyphylic groups based on their culinary roles.\n\nA cereal, also called a cereal grain or simply a grain, is the edible seed of a grass, a plant in the Poaceae family. Cereals can be consumed in a variety of ways, all of which require husking and cooking, including whole, rolled, puffed, or ground into flour. Many cereals are present or past staple foods, providing a large fraction of the calories in the places in which they are eaten. Today, cereals provide almost half of all calories consumed in the world.\n\nOther grasses with edible seeds include:\n\nA pseudocereal, or pseudocereal grain, is the edible seed of a pseudocereal, one of a polyphylic group of plants that produce seeds that resemble those of cereals. Pseudocereals are used in many of the same ways as cereals.\n\nA legume, or pulse, is the edible seed of a legume, a plant in the Fabaceae family. Legumes can be divided into grams, which do not split, and dals, which split.\n\nAlthough some beans can be consumed raw, some need to be heated before consumption. In certain cultures, beans that need heating are initially prepared as a seed cake. Beans that need heating include: \n\nAccording to the botanical definition, nuts are a particular kind of fruit. Chestnuts, hazelnuts, and acorns are examples of nuts under this definition. In culinary terms, however, the term is used more broadly to include fruits that are not botanically qualified as nuts, but that have a similar appearance and culinary role. Examples of culinary nuts include almonds, coconuts, and cashews.\n\n\nEdible gymnosperm seeds that resembles nuts include:\n\n\nOther edible seeds that do not neatly fit into the above categories include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19717114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19717114", "title": "List of mountains of Switzerland", "text": "List of mountains of Switzerland\n\nThis page contains a sortable table listing all major mountains and hills of Switzerland. The table includes all summits that have a topographic prominence of at least , regardless of absolute height or other merit, ranking them by height and prominence. For a list of mountains with lower prominence, see List of mountains of Switzerland above 3000 m and List of mountains of Switzerland above 3600 m. For a list of mountains including topographic isolation, see List of most isolated mountains of Switzerland.\n\nAlong with the lakes, mountains constitute a major natural feature of Switzerland with most of the cantons having summits exceeding and three of them having summits exceeding . The two main mountain ranges are the Alps (south and east) and the Jura (north and west), separated by the Swiss Plateau which also includes a large number of hills. Topographically, the three most important summits of Switzerland are those of Monte Rosa (most elevated), the Finsteraarhorn (most prominent) and Piz Bernina (most isolated).\n\nThe Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme defines a summit in the Alps as independent, if the connecting ridge between it and a higher summit drops at least 30 m (a prominence/drop of 30 m, with the lowest point referred to as the \"key col\"). There are over 4400 such summits exceeding 2000 m in Switzerland. In order for a peak to qualify as an independent mountain, traditionally a prominence of at least 300 m, or 10 times the aforementioned criterion value, has been used. Inclusion based on prominence is expedient for its objectivity and verifiability, but has its drawbacks. For example, an impressive mountain peak dominating a valley may be connected via long high ridges to a barely higher hidden summit. Among the better-known peaks absent from this list are Fletschhorn (Lagginhorn), Mont Blanc de Cheilon (Ruinette), Nadelhorn and Täschhorn (Dom), Piz d'Err (Piz Calderas), Piz Badile (Piz Cengalo) and Piz Palü (Piz Zupò).\n\nAll mountain heights and prominences on the list are from the largest-scale maps available.\nHowever, heights sometime conflict on different scales. For example, the Fletschhorn is indicated to be 3993, 3982, and 3984.5 m high on the 1:100'000, 1:50'000 and 1:25'000 Swisstopo map, respectively. The (rounded) elevation given by the largest scale map is always used in this table.\nAlso, the deepest points in connecting ridges are not always survey points with spot elevations, so that heights have to be estimated from contour lines. For example, maps often provide heights for the place where a route passes over a ridge rather than for the lowest point of that pass.\n\nFinally, many height indications on these maps may be not up-to-date, while glacier and firn melt has decreased the height of both peaks and key cols, quite dramatically. For example, until 2009, the Col des Maisons Blanches which lies on the Corbassière Glacier was measured to be 3,418 m, while the more recent maps (2012) show it to be 3,404 m high. This is the key col for the Combin de Corbassière (3,716 m), which, thanks to the retreat of the glacier, now appears on the list with a prominence of 312 m.\n\nThe list contains 451 mountains with a prominence higher than 300 m, among which 24 are above 4000 m, 64 above 3500 m, 208 above 3000 m, 321 above 2500 m, 384 above 2000 m, 417 above 1500 m and 443 above 1000 m. The average and median heights are respectively 2812 and 2956 m. Eight summits (sometimes called ultra-prominent peaks) have a prominence exceeding 1500 m, they are found in seven cantons. The great majority of the summits are located in the Alps, the other being located in the Jura Mountains. On average, each summit is the culminating point of an area corresponding to 91.5 km, which is equivalent in term of density to approximately 1.09 summits per 100 km.\n\nThese 451 major summits are found in 22 different cantons. 3 cantons (Valais, Bern and Graubünden) have summits above 4000 m, 9 cantons have summits above 3000 m, 15 cantons have summits above 2000 m and 21 cantons have summits above 1000 m. Two cantons have more than 100 summits: Graubünden (152) and Valais (104), while eleven cantons have less than 10 summits. 82 of the summits are on cantonal borders, 2 of which being tripoints (Brienzer Rothorn and Säntis). A number of mountains (e.g. Titlis, Chasseral, Lägern) straddle borders as well, but have their summit on one side of the border. In the list, only the exact location of the culminating point of the mountain is considered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11747405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11747405", "title": "List of oil and gas fields of the North Sea", "text": "List of oil and gas fields of the North Sea\n\nThis list of oil and gas fields of the North Sea contains links to oil and natural gas reservoirs beneath the North Sea. In terms of the oil industry, \"North Sea oil\" often refers to a larger geographical set, including areas such as the Norwegian Sea and the UK \"Atlantic Margin\" (west of Shetland) which are not, strictly speaking, part of the North Sea. The UK list includes facilities in the Irish Sea.\n\nSouth to north.\n\n\n\nOnshore oil and gas resources in the UK are located in a number of provinces corresponding to prospective sedimentary basins. Provinces and Basins (from south to north) include the Wessex-Channel Basin, Weald Basin, Worcester Basin, Cheshire Basin, East Midlands Province, West Lancashire Basin, NE England Province, Northumberland-Solway Basin, Midland Valley of Scotland, and the Orcadian Basin. A list of current and historic UK onshore oil and gas fields is given in the table below.\nThe UK continental shelf (UKCS) comprises six geographical and geological oil, gas and condensate regions: Southern North Sea (principally gas fields); Central North Sea (oil, condensate and gas fields); Moray Firth (oil and associated gas fields); Northern North Sea (oil and associated gas fields); West of Shetland (oil and associated gas); and the Irish Sea/Liverpool Bay (oil and gas). The fields and installations in the following list are allocated to regions corresponding to the Oil and Gas Authority's listings.\n\nInstallation Identification\n\nOil and gas field names follow themes chosen by the companies who originally developed them. An offshore installation on the UK Continental Shelf may comprise a single integrated platform or two or more bridge-linked platforms. Installations are identified by a large black-on-yellow sign on the installation. This may give the name of the original or current owner or operator, the field name, and a set of numbers and letters, e.g. Shell/Esso Leman 49/26A. The numbers identify the Quadrant and Block where the installation is located, e.g. 49/26 is in Quadrant 49 Block 26. The first letter is a sequential letter (A, B, C, D, etc.) identifying each installation within a field. For installations in the Southern North Sea the second and subsequent letters may designate a platform's function, e.g. the Leman 49/26A complex comprises four bridge-linked platforms 49/26AP (Production), 49/26AD1 (Drilling 1), 49/26AD2 (Drilling 2), and 49/26AK (Compression). Common designations are:\n\nNote: Drilling refers to the original function of the platform to support well drilling operations. No Southern North Sea installation has permanent drilling facilities.\n\nOn some installations the letters simply provide a unique two letter identity, e.g.Tethys TN, Viscount VO.\n\nThe Southern North Sea (SNS) comprises gas (plus associated condensate) fields. Themed field names comprise groups of fields that are geographically, operationally or commercially linked. Names are based on:\nA full listing of UK Southern North Sea gas fields is given in the table below.\n\nThe SNS fields are serviced from Easington, Lowestoft, Hartlepool, Yarmouth, Skegness, Norwich airport and Humberside airport.\n\nThe Central North Sea comprises oil, condensate and gas fields. They are serviced from Aberdeen and Hartlepool\nThese fields are in Quadrants 11 to 16. Serviced from Aberdeen\nLocated in Quadrants 204, 205 and 206, these fields are serviced from Aberdeen and Lerwick\nServiced from Aberdeen and Scasta airport\n\nThese UK fields are located in two main areas of the eastern Irish Sea: Morecambe Bay and Liverpool Bay. Although not part of the North Sea they are on the UK Continental Shelf. The fields are serviced from Liverpool, Blackpool and Morecambe.\n\n\n\nNo onshore developments\n\nOffshore development is abundant. Of the 19 fields, 15 are operated by Maersk Oil and Gas as part of the Dansk Undergrunds Consortium, with the remaining 4 operated by DONG Energy (3) and Hess (1).\n\nNo onshore developments - (Oslo Graben oil seeps??)\n\nServiced from Stavanger, Bergen, Kristiansund\n\nCentral North Sea\n\n\nNorthern North Sea\n\nAssociated - not North Sea\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591812", "title": "List of stars in Piscis Austrinus", "text": "List of stars in Piscis Austrinus\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Piscis Austrinus, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52793708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52793708", "title": "M Carinae", "text": "M Carinae\n\nThe Bayer designations m Carinae and M Carinae are distinct.\n\n"}
{"id": "40377748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40377748", "title": "McNulty rhyolite", "text": "McNulty rhyolite\n\nFound in a single location on the earth’s surface, McNulty rhyolite is a comparatively rare gem rock (geology) quality U.S. variety of rhyolite rock. McNulty rhyolite appears in the official U.S. Department of Interior, United States Geological Survey \"Lexicon of Geological Names of the United States\".\n\nRhyolite is an igneous, volcanic rock of felsic. It often resembles granite and has the same basic mineral makeup; however, rhyolite’s origin is extrusive and not plutonic. Because it is so rich in silica, its melts or lavas, unlike those of basalt, are highly viscous. In volcanic extrusion, rhyolite tends not to flow, but, rather to plug expanding gases until thrown off in eruption in release of the pent up force of the expansion. In the U.S. today, rhyolites are most commonly found in the west and southwest. Unlike granite, some few varieties of rhyolite, like McNulty rhyolite, are coveted by lapidaries as gem rocks, because of their identifying mineral aggregates, interesting colors and flow banding. Other examples of varieties of rhyolite, suitable for use as gem rock (though both far, far more common than McNulty rhyolite), are “Wonderstone” and “Hichoryite”, which are together found in Mexico, Nevada, Utah and New Mexico.\n\nMcNulty rhyolite (as per S.F. Simmons 1898) or McNulty Gulch rhyolite (as per W. Cross 1886), described by Cross as “Light-colored; numerous slightly pinkish quartz crystals, white glassy feldspars, and brown blotlte leaves, with subordinate ashen gray ground mass btw. them.”, is found only in McNulty Gulch in Colorado, United States. McNulty Gulch is a feature of granite porphyry near Leadville, Colorado in the U.S. Ten Mile Mining District. The igneous rhyolites of McNulty Gulch formed in the mountain of Colorado’s Ten Mile Mining District later than the diorite and Lincoln porphyry there but earlier than the once rich silver ore deposits of the district’s Grand Union or Silver Bowl mine. McNulty Gulch is an integral part of the western United States’ and Colorado’s gold rush history, being the 1861 site of one of the earliest gold finds in Colorado. The first commercial gold placers in Colorado were only discovered by George A. Jackson in nearby areas of Colorado 2 years earlier in 1858. These discoveries precipitated a rush of prospectors into the surrounding mountains and the Colorado Gold Rush commenced. During 1858-67, Colorado produced about $14,924,000 in placer gold and about $10 million in lode gold at mid 19th century values.\n\nIn the United States Geological Survey description of the Ten Mile District Quadrangle, McNulty rhyolite rock is described thus “McNulty rhyolite. This is a fine-grained porphyritic rhyolite, light gray in color, with many small white feldspars and locally some small smoky quartz crystals. It is probably allied to the nevadite in time of eruption, or it may be later. It cuts both the Lincoln and the Quail diorite-porphyry. It occurs in small irregular masses in McNulty Gulch, and extends southward beyond the present quadrangle. In one mass above the Railroad Boy tunnel (45)* are small drusy cavities containing little tablets of tridymite.” \n\n ‘’Chris Mineral Collecting Site’’ A Guide to Rock Types\n"}
{"id": "24823442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24823442", "title": "Natural History Museum of Zimbabwe", "text": "Natural History Museum of Zimbabwe\n\nThe Natural History Museum of Zimbabwe is located in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, on Leopold Takawira Avenue.\n\nOfficially opened in 1964, the museum contains exhibits illustrating the history, mineral wealth and wildlife of Zimbabwe, including the second largest mounted elephant in the world.\n"}
{"id": "1470623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470623", "title": "Neoarchean", "text": "Neoarchean\n\n\"Not to be confused with archaea, in spite of biological discussion commonly alluding to the only life forms of that era, e.g. microbes\"\n\nThe Neoarchean (; also spelled Neoarchaean) is a geologic era within the Archaean Eon. \n\nThe Neoarchean spans the period from —the period being defined chronometrically and not referenced to a specific level in a rock section on Earth. \n\nDuring this era, oxygenic photosynthesis first evolved, releasing an abundance of oxygen, that first reacted with minerals and afterward was free to react with greenhouse gases of the atmosphere, leaving the Earth's surface free to radiate its energy to space. This is known as the oxygen catastrophe which was to happen later in the Paleoproterozoic from a poisonous buildup of oxygen in the atmosphere, released by these oxygen producing photoautotrophs, which evolved earlier in the Neoarchean.\n\nDuring this era, the supercontinent Kenorland formed at about .\n"}
{"id": "23601279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23601279", "title": "Ocean Power Technologies", "text": "Ocean Power Technologies\n\nOcean Power Technologies (O.P.T.) is a US-owned renewable energy company, providing power generation devices, services and related equipment for the extraction of energy from ocean waves. The company's PowerBuoy technology is scalable to hundreds of megawatts and the generated energy from Wave Power is supplied to the grid via submarine cables. Projects are now underway around the world.\n\nOcean Power Technologies Australasia Pty Ltd, OPTA is an Australian-owned subsidiary of Ocean Power Technologies Inc (OPT), currently engaged in wave power projects in Australia.\n\nOcean Power Technologies Limited is the UK-based wholly owned subsidiary.\n\n\n\n\nThe company's primary product is the PowerBuoy wave generation system. It uses a \"smart,\" oceangoing buoy to capture and convert wave energy into low-cost, clean electricity.\n\nThe USP is an electrical power aggregator from up to ten offshore power generation devices, be they wind, wave power or other, into one common interconnection point for transmission to the onshore power grid. \nThe USP can likewise be configured to supply onshore power to offshore devices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53766712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53766712", "title": "Patagonian grasslands", "text": "Patagonian grasslands\n\nThe Patagonian grasslands (NT0804) is an ecoregion in the south of Chile, Argentina and the Falkland Islands. The grasslands are home to diverse fauna, including several rare or endemic species of birds. There are few protected areas. The grasslands are threatened by overgrazing by sheep, which supply high-quality merino wool. Efforts are being made to develop sustainable grazing practices to avoid desertification.\n\nThe Patagonian grasslands extend across eastern Tierra del Fuego in Chile and Argentina from near the southern cone, and cover part of Santa Cruz Province just north of the Strait of Magellan up to the Gallegos River.\nThey also include the Falkland Islands.\nTo the north the grasslands adjoin the Patagonian steppe ecoregion.\nTo the west they adjoin the Magellanic subpolar forests ecoregion.\n\nThe ecoregion in South America is divided into a northern mainland section and southern Tierra del Fuego Island section by the Strait of Magellan.\nThe grasslands cover terrain of low mountains, plateaus and plains.\nThe soils are rich, with high levels of organic material.\nAverage annual rainfall is .\nMean temperatures in the far south of Tierra del Fuego are , but temperatures may fall below .\n\nThe ecoregion holds important wetlands including the Tero marsh and lagoons, Rio Pelque marsh, Lago Argentino, Puerto Bandera lagoons, Lake Viedma, Meseta del Tobiana lagoons and Escarchados lagoons. \nIn the coastal region important wetlands include Río Santa Cruz, Monte León, Río Coig, Ría Gallegos, Cabo Vígenes, Bahía San Sebastián, Río Grande, Mitre Peninsula, Beagle Canal and Isla of the Estados.\n\nThe Patagonian Grasslands are in the neotropical realm, in the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome.\n\nThe northern part of the ecoregion is covered by tundra grasslands.\nIn the center there are high latitude Andean meadows and in the far south there are deciduous thickets.\nOn the Falkland Islands there are swamp forests.\n\nThe vegetation is mostly grass-steppe with scattered shrubs.\nSpecies include \"Festuca pallescens\", \"Senecio patagonicus\" and \"Plantago maritima\". \nSpecies found in saline soils near the sea include \"Atriplex reichei\" and \"Lepidophyllum cupressiforme\". \nCommon genera include Adesmia, Anarthrophyllum, Berberis, Chuquiraga, Lycium, Mulinum, Schinus and Verbena.\nThe dominant species in the steppe of Tierra del Fuego is the perennial grass \"Festuca gracillima\".\nOther grasses include \"Poa atropidiformis\", Trisetum species and \"Hordeum comosum\". \nThe most common plant in the valley floors and plains is \"Hordeum comosum\", interspersed with \"Alopecurus antarticus\", \"Phleum conmutatus\", \"Poa pratensis\" and Agrosti species.\n\nThe region holds very diverse fauna.\nMammals include Patagonian mara (\"Dolichotis patagonum\"), southern viscacha (\"Lagidium viscacia\"), Wolffsohn's viscacha (\"Lagidium wolffsohni\"), Patagonian weasel (\"Lyncodon patagonicus\"), Humboldt's hog-nosed skunk (\"Conepatus humboldtii\"), cougar (\"Puma concolor\"), Falkland Islands wolf (\"Dusicyon australis\") and guanaco (\"Lama guanicoe\").\nThreatened species include Patagonian mara (\"Dolichotis patagonum\"), guanaco, South American gray fox (\"Lycalopex griseus\") and South American fur seal (\"Arctocephalus australis\").\n\nBird include Darwin's rhea (\"Rhea pennata\"), Patagonian tinamou (\"Tinamotis ingoufi\"), black-chested buzzard-eagle (\"Geranoaetus melanoleucus\"), peregrine falcon (\"Falco peregrinus\"), band-winged nightjar (\"Systellura longirostris\"), Patagonian mockingbird (\"Mimus patagonicus\") and Patagonian yellow finch (\"Sicalis lebruni\").\nEndemic birds found north of the strait include hooded grebe (\"Podiceps gallardoi\"), Magellanic plover (\"Pluvianellus socialis\"), chocolate-vented tyrant (\"Neoxolmis rufiventris\"), white-bridled finch (\"Melanodera melanodera\"), short-billed miner (\"Geositta antarctica\"), ruddy-headed goose (\"Chloephaga rubidiceps\") and striated caracara (\"Phalcoboenus australis\").\nThe striated caracara (\"Phalcoboenus australis\") and blackish cinclodes (\"Cinclodes antarcticus\") are found in Tierra del Fuego. \nEndemic birds in the Falklands are the Falkland steamer duck (\"Tachyeres brachypterus\") and Cobb's wren (\"Troglodytes cobbi\"). \nThe Falklands are also important for seabirds such as gentoo penguin (\"Pygoscelis papua\").\n\nThe World Wildlife Fund gives the ecoregion a status of \"Vulnerable\".\nFew people live in the ecoregion.\nHowever, grazing livestock and introduced animals have destroyed the natural grassland, particularly tussock grass.\nWhere the sparse vegetation has been damaged the soil is exposed to erosion.\nOvergrazing by merino sheep is turning the grassland into a desert.\nIn the past Guanacos were the only large grazing animal, and imposed little stress on the semi-arid grasslands.\nCommercial sheep farming, which began at the end of the 19th century, has had a drastic impact.\nPalatable grasses have been progressively eliminated, replaced by unpalatable woody plants.\n\nThe natural tussock grass is an important resource for endemic birds.\nThree birds species at risk are the critically endangered hooded grebe (\"Podiceps gallardoi\"), the rare ruddy-headed goose (\"Chloephaga rubidiceps\") and the near threatened striated caracara (\"Phalcoboenus australis\"), which has suffered from over-hunting.\n\nThe ecoregion has few protected areas.\nThey include Dicky Private Wildlife Reserve (\"Refugio Privado de Vida Silvestre Dicky\") and Magallanes National Reserve on the mainland, and Reserva Costa Atlántica in Tierra del Fuego.\nThe Patagonian Grasslands of Argentina Conservation Project, organized by The Nature Conservancy, is trying to develop sustainable grazing practices in partnership with scientists and landowners, but it is a challenge to find economic incentives.\nAn Argentine company has worked with The Nature Conservancy to develop protocols and measurements for sustainable grazing, which can be used in branding clothes made of Patagonian wool. The theory, which is controversial, is that if sheep are moved frequently to emulate herds of wild animals avoiding predators they may actually help regenerate the grasslands.\nThe decisions on where and how fast to move them depend on many ecological factors, and some academics are skeptical about whether real benefits can be achieved.\n\n"}
{"id": "12310667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12310667", "title": "Point bar", "text": "Point bar\n\nA point bar is a depositional feature made of alluvium that accumulates on the inside bend of streams and rivers below the slip-off slope. Point bars are found in abundance in mature or meandering streams. They are crescent-shaped and located on the inside of a stream bend, being very similar to, though often smaller than, towheads, or river islands. \n\nPoint bars are composed of sediment that is well sorted and typically reflects the overall capacity of the stream. They also have a very gentle \"slope\" and an elevation very close to water level. Since they are low-lying, they are often overtaken by floods and can accumulate driftwood and other debris during times of high water levels. Due to their near flat topography and the fact that the water speed is slow in the shallows of the point bar they are popular rest stops for boaters and rafters. However, camping on a point bar can be dangerous as a flash flood that raises the stream level by as little as a few inches (centimetres) can overwhelm a campsite in moments.\n\nA point bar is an area of deposition whereas a cut bank is an area of erosion.\n\nPoint bars are formed as the secondary flow of the stream sweeps and rolls sand, gravel and small stones laterally across the floor of the stream and up the shallow sloping floor of the point bar.\n\nAny fluid, including water in a stream, can only flow around a bend in vortex flow. In vortex flow the speed of the fluid is fastest where the radius of the flow is smallest, and slowest where the radius is greatest. (Tropical cyclones, tornadoes, and the spinning motion of water as it escapes down a drain are all visible examples of vortex flow.) In the case of water flowing around a bend in a stream the secondary flow in the boundary layer along the floor of the stream does not flow parallel to the banks of the stream but flows partly across the floor of the stream toward the inside of the stream (where the radius of curvature is smallest). This movement of the boundary layer is capable of sweeping and rolling loose particles including sand, gravel, small stones and other submerged objects along the floor of the stream toward the point bar.\n\nThis can be demonstrated at home. Partly fill a circular bowl or cup with water and sprinkle a little sand, rice or sugar into the water. Set the water in circular motion with a hand or spoon. The secondary flow will quickly sweep the solid particles into a neat pile in the center of the bowl or cup. The primary flow (the vortex) might be expected to sweep the solid particles to the perimeter of the bowl or cup, but instead the secondary flow along the floor of the bowl or cup sweeps the particles toward the center.\n\nWhere a stream is following a straight course the slower boundary layer along the floor of the stream is also following the same straight course. It sweeps and rolls sand, gravel and polished stones downstream, along the floor of the stream. However, as the stream enters a bend and vortex flow commences as the primary flow, a secondary flow also commences and flows partly across the floor of the stream toward the convex bank (the bank with the smaller radius). Sand, gravel and polished stones that have travelled with the stream for a great distance where the stream was following a straight course may finally come to rest in the point bar of the first stream bend.\n\nDue to the circular path of a stream around a bend the surface of the water is slightly higher near the concave bank (the bank with the larger radius) than near the convex bank. This slight slope on the water surface of the stream causes a slightly greater water pressure on the floor of the stream near the concave bank than near the convex bank. This pressure gradient drives the slower boundary layer across the floor of the stream toward the convex bank. The pressure gradient is capable of driving the boundary layer up the shallow sloping floor of the point bar, causing sand, gravel and polished stones to be swept and rolled up-hill.\n\nThe concave bank is often a cut bank and an area of erosion. The eroded material is swept and rolled across the floor of the stream by the secondary flow and may be deposited on the point bar only a small distance downstream from its original location in the concave bank.\n\nThe point bar typically has a gently sloping floor with shallow water. The shallow water is mostly the accumulated boundary layer and does not have a fast speed. However, in the deepest parts of the stream where the stream is flowing freely, vortex flow prevails and the stream is flowing fastest where the radius of the bend is smallest, and slowest where the radius is greatest. The shallows around the point bar can become treacherous when the stream is rising. As the water depth increases over the shallows of the point bar, the vortex flow can extend closer toward the convex bank and the water speed at any point can increase dramatically in response to only a small increase in water depth.\n\nAn old fallacy exists regarding the formation of point bars and oxbow lakes which suggests they are formed by the deposition (dropping) of a watercourse's suspended load claiming the velocity and energy of the stream \"decreases\" toward the inside of a bend. This fallacy relies on the erroneous notion that the momentum of the water is \"always\" slowest on the inside of the bend (where the radius is smallest) and fastest on the outside of the bend (where the radius is greatest), which ignores its increased angular momentum.\n\nMass deposition of suspended solids rarely occurs on one bank save in tidal estuaries; instead, vortex flow being faster on the inner bank compensates for the greater height and therefore mass of water flowing downstream along the concave bank, and the rough, shallow bed usually provides per liter of water above more agitation to maintain any suspended particles. Any relatively steady gradient open flow not met with complex interactions with contrary flows, such as tides, or major obstacles, flows around a bend in a simple model of vortex flow, with relatively few variables and coefficients. \n\nAll point bars typically have a gently sloping floor with shallow water. Clearly a higher proportion of the water in very shallow water does much more work to overcome friction above and below (especially in a countervailing breeze) which lowers its speed, see Bernouilli's principle. It is probably this close-quarters observation which led early geographers to believe in deposition by sedimentation of suspended matter rather than close-to-bed secondary currents.\n\nIn a steady-gradient section of a watercourse, sedimentation may occur where the water is saturated and the shallow bank has high flow resistance but does not agitate the suspension. Similarly, the fallacy has scant explanation as to why deposition occurs at a stream bend, and little or none occurs where the stream is following a straight course, with exception of a steep slope (river gradient) where the river has formed a natural cut or waterfall and may then deposit some of its load at the point of meeting a less steep section e.g. great meander.\n\nIn the settled low-gradient parts of a meandering watercourse the water speed is slow, turbulence is low, and the water is not capable of holding coarse sand and gravel in suspension. In contrast, point bars comprise coarse sand, gravel, polished stones and other submerged objects. These materials have not been carried in suspension and then dropped on the point bar – they have been swept and rolled into place by the secondary flow that exists across the floor/bed in the vicinity of a stream bend, which will be intensified if there is reflection particularly from an irregular, scoured opposing bank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29081224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29081224", "title": "Protection of the Arctic Marine Environment", "text": "Protection of the Arctic Marine Environment\n\nThe Protection of the Arctic Marine Environment Working Group (PAME) is a subdivision of the Arctic Council. It is one of the six working groups that comprises the Council.\n\nPAME was founded as part of the 1991 Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy and its work continued by the 1996 Ottawa Charter that also established the Arctic Council. PAME's headquarters are located in Akureyri, Iceland.\n\nPAME deals with all Arctic Council activities that are related to the sustainable development of the Arctic region and the protection of the environment. It monitors the evolution of global and regional policies concerning the Arctic and the growth of traffic in the region. Where necessary, it makes recommendations for improvements. PAME works on projects that are approved every two years by the Arctic Council. These include polar action programmes and guidelines to make companies and nations worldwide aware of the possible consequences of their land or sea-based activities on the vulnerable Arctic marine environment.\n\nIn 2009 the working group released a major report on Arctic marine shipping, the Arctic Marine Shipping Assessment, which analyses current and future trends in Arctic transport. PAME was asked to conduct this research after the 2004 Arctic Climate Impact Assessment had concluded that \"Reduced sea ice is very likely to increase marine transport and access to resources\".\n\nPAME's objectives were outlined in a 2009 meeting:\n\n\n1. https://archive.is/20080511222501/http://arctic-council.org/working_group/pame\n\n2. http://www.pame.is\n"}
{"id": "53811398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53811398", "title": "Santa Marta páramo", "text": "Santa Marta páramo\n\nThe Santa Marta páramo (NT1007) is an ecoregion containing páramo (high moorland) vegetation above the treeline in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta mountain range on the Caribbean coast of Colombia. The isolated position of the range has allowed unique species to evolve. Some are related to those found in Central America and the Caribbean coastal areas, and some to species from the Andes. The habitat is relatively stable, but has been drastically changed from the original by long-term human activity.\n\nThe Santa Marta páramo has an area of .\nIt covers the upper levels of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in the north of Colombia.\nThis is a roughly triangular massif with its north side parallel to the Caribbean sea, the southwest side facing the swamps of the Ciénaga Grande de Santa Marta and the southeast side facing the Serranía del Perijá mountains across the Cesar and Ranchería river valleys.\nThe ecoregion is surrounded by the Santa Marta montane forests ecoregion, which in turn is surrounded by the Sinú Valley dry forests and Guajira-Baranquilla xeric scrub ecoregions.\n\nThe Santa Marta páramo is the most northern section of páramo (high moor) in South America.\nThe isolated Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta has an elevation of .\nThe páramo is found between the treeline around and the snowline around , with some variations due to differences in slope, rainfall and exposure to the wind and sun. The area is almost all granodiorite from the Jurassic period.\n\nThe Köppen climate classification is \"Cwb\": warm temperate, winter dry, warm summer.\nWhere the Northern Andean páramo is generally humid throughout the year with moisture delivered in the form of rain, clouds and fog as air masses are lifted up over the mountains, the Santa Marta páramo is similar to the Costa Rican páramo and Cordillera de Merida páramo, where the northeast trade winds create a distinct dry season.\nMoist air currents rise every day and produce mist and rain.\nMost rain falls in May and September.\n\nAt a sample location at coordinates mean monthly temperatures ranged from in January to in June.\nYearly average temperature was about , with average minimum of and maximum of .\nAverage total rainfall was about .\nMean monthly rainfall varied from in January to in May, falling back to in July and rising again to in October.\n\nThe Santa Marta páramo ecoregion is in the neotropical realm, in the montane grasslands and shrublands biome.\nThe ecoregion is part of the Northern Andean Paramo global ecoregion, which also includes the Cordillera Central páramo, Cordillera de Merida páramo and Northern Andean páramo terrestrial ecoregions.\nThe plants and animals are adapted to the cold, dry conditions of the high peaks.\nThere is a high level of local endemism, particularly on the more isolated peaks.\nThe Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta has been designated a Biosphere Reserve due to the endemic plants and animals, particularly at the higher levels.\n\nThe Andes began to rise in the Miocene epoch, but in the north did not reach their present height until the Pliocene during a period of strong volcanic activity between four and five million years ago.\nThis was the period when land rose above the tree line and the protopáramo vegetation was formed with new species of the \"Poaceae\", \"Cyperaceae\", \"Asteraceae\", \"Ericaceae\" and other families. \nDuring the later parts of the Quaternary epoch there were alternating glacial and interglacial periods, with short, cold and dry periods alternating with warmer and more humid periods.\nThe páramo belts moved lower and joined together in the cold periods, and moved higher into unconnected enclaves when the temperatures rose.\nThe result is a mix of species of tropical and boreal origin with genera that are found in most páramos, but many endemic species in the individual páramos.\n\nThe Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta páramo is isolated and has a unique composition of flora and fauna.\nThe isolation has given time for endemic species to evolve including the Castenedia and Raouliopsis genera.\nThe species evolved from warm tropical species adapted to moist conditions and from Andean species that migrated along the eastern cordillera of Colombia.\nThe flora is closer to the flora of the Cordillera de Merida páramo and the Cordillera de la Costa montane forests than to the Northern Andean páramo.\nIt is descended from flora growing on land that was lifted to intermediate elevations in the early and middle Cenozoic, and that differentiated when the land was lifted to high elevations during the Pliocene and Pleistocene.\n\nA 2013 analysis of the páramo units in Colombia evaluated similarities between their endemic flora.\nIt found that the units naturally formed into five biogeographical provinces:\nThe definition of the Páramos del Norte province differs from the traditional grouping, where the Santa Marta páramo is treated as a separate ecoregion and the Perijá páramo is included in the Cordillera Oriental province. The flora of these two is closer to the Páramos de Chirripó of Central America than to the rest of the Northern Andean páramo, despite their being separated by the Cesar River valley.\n\nThe páramo contains high altitude tussock grassland, thicket, bogs and marshes.\nVegetation on the northern side receives more rain and is rougher than the vegetation on the southern side, which is protected from the trade winds.\n125 species of angiosperms have been recorded that are endemic to the Sierra Nevada, of which 61 are found only in the páramo.\n135 genera of vascular plants have been recorded.\n\"Raouliopsis\" and \"Obtegomeria\" are endemic.\n\"Pentacalia\" has 8 of its 11 endemic species that grow only in the páramo.\n\"Diplostephium\" has 9 of its 10 endemic species that grow only in the páramo.\nOther genera with species endemic to the páramo include \"Micropleura\", \"Niphogetum\", \"Perissocaelum\" and \"Cotopaxia\".\n\nThe vegetation has strips of typical páramo vegetation formations.\nThe lowest \"subpáramo\" strip along the Andean forest margin is more shrubby.\nFlora include \"Calamagrostis effusa\", \"Arcytophyllum nitidum\", \"Stevia lucida\", \"Escallonia myrtilloides\", \"Hesperomeles lanuginosa\".\nThe central strip of true páramo has more open shrublands with low shrubs.\nOpen areas contain \"Acaena cylindrostachya\", \"Castilleja fissifolia\" and \"Lupinus carrikeri\". \nShrubs found in protected valleys and rocky slopes include \"Lachemilla polylepis\", \"Simplocos nivalis\" and \"Obtegomeria caerulescens\".\nSwamps and the margins of glacial lakes have clumps of \"Azorella crenata\" and rosettes of \"Hypochaeris sessiliflora\".\nWater plants include \"Callitriche nubigena\" and \"Ranunculus limoseloides\". \nThe upper \"superpáramo\" has scattered tussocks of grass.\nThere are patches of \"Raouliopsis seifrizii\" and \"Draba sanctae-marthae\".\nAreas shielded from the wind hold \"Valeriana karstenii\" and \"Perissocaelum purdiei\".\n\nEndemic mammals include subspecies of the red brocket (\"Mazama americana carrikeri\"), and the cougar (\"Puma concolor bangsi\").\nEndangered amphibians include \"Atelopus arsyecue\", Guajira stubfoot toad (\"Atelopus carrikeri\") and Boulenger's backpack frog (\"Cryptobatrachus boulengeri\").\nBirds include the Andean condor (\"Vultur gryphus\"), rufous-collared sparrow (\"Zonotrichia capensis\") and Jameson's snipe (\"Gallinago jamesoni\").\nEndangered birds include the Santa Marta bush tyrant (\"Myiotheretes pernix\") and black-backed thornbill (\"Ramphomicron dorsale\").\n\nThe World Wildlife Fund gives a status of \"Relatively Stable/Intact\".\nThe páramo is expanding as the Andean forest at lower levels is cleared and the glaciers recede in the upper areas.\nThe ecoregion is protected by the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta National Park.\nThe growing populations of Kogi, Arsario and Arhuaco indigenous people have reserves that cover parts of the páramo and have special rights within the park.\nThey graze large herds of cattle and sheep up to elevations of , and hunt cougars and condors to protect their livestock.\nThey extract wood for fuel and building.\nIn the subpáramo they have expanded the scrublands by burning and grow potatoes and onions.\nThese changes reduce biodiversity, change the balance of vegetation and increase erosion.\n\n"}
{"id": "15141981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15141981", "title": "Scandinavian hydrogen highway partnership", "text": "Scandinavian hydrogen highway partnership\n\nThe Scandinavian hydrogen highway partnership is a collaboration started in June 2006 to connect the hydrogen highways hydrogen link network (Denmark), Hyfuture (Sweden) and Hynor (Norway). \n\nThe planned highway is part of the hydrogen infrastructure, there are several hydrogen re-fueling stations planned along the route.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "440906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440906", "title": "Seiche", "text": "Seiche\n\nA seiche ( ) is a standing wave in an enclosed or partially enclosed body of water. Seiches and seiche-related phenomena have been observed on lakes, reservoirs, swimming pools, bays, harbours and seas. The key requirement for formation of a seiche is that the body of water be at least partially bounded, allowing the formation of the standing wave.\n\nThe term was promoted by the Swiss hydrologist François-Alphonse Forel in 1890, who was the first to make scientific observations of the effect in Lake Geneva, Switzerland. The word originates in a Swiss French dialect word that means \"to sway back and forth\", which had apparently long been used in the region to describe oscillations in alpine lakes.\n\nSeiches in harbours can be caused by \"long period\" or \"infragravity waves\", which are due to subharmonic nonlinear wave interaction with the wind waves, having periods longer than the accompanying wind-generated waves.\nSeiches are often imperceptible to the naked eye, and observers in boats on the surface may not notice that a seiche is occurring due to the extremely long wavelengths.\n\nThe effect is caused by resonances in a body of water that has been disturbed by one or more factors, most often meteorological effects (wind and atmospheric pressure variations), seismic activity, or tsunamis. Gravity always seeks to restore the horizontal surface of a body of liquid water, as this represents the configuration in which the water is in hydrostatic equilibrium.\n\nVertical harmonic motion results, producing an impulse that travels the length of the basin at a velocity that depends on the depth of the water. The impulse is reflected back from the end of the basin, generating interference. Repeated reflections produce standing waves with one or more nodes, or points, that experience no vertical motion. The frequency of the oscillation is determined by the size of the basin, its depth and contours, and the water temperature.\n\nThe longest natural period of a seiche is the period associated with the fundamental resonance for the body of water—corresponding to the longest standing wave. For a surface seiche in an enclosed rectangular body of water this can be estimated using Merian's formula:\n\nwhere \"T\" is the longest natural period, \"L\" is the length, \"h\" the average depth of the body of water, and \"g\" the acceleration of gravity.\n\nHigher order harmonics are also observed. The period of the second harmonic will be half the natural period, the period of the third harmonic will be a third of the natural period, and so forth.\n\nSeiches have been observed on both lakes and seas. The key requirement is that the body of water be partially constrained to allow formation of standing waves. Regularity of geometry is not required; even harbours with exceedingly irregular shapes are routinely observed to oscillate with very stable frequencies.\n\nLow rhythmic seiches are almost always present on larger lakes. They are usually unnoticeable among the common wave patterns, except during periods of unusual calm. Harbours, bays, and estuaries are often prone to small seiches with amplitudes of a few centimetres and periods of a few minutes.\n\nAmong other lakes well known for their regular seiches is New Zealand's Lake Wakatipu, which varies its surface height at Queenstown by 20 centimetres in a 27-minute cycle. Seiches can also form in semi-enclosed seas; the North Sea often experiences a lengthwise seiche with a period of about 36 hours.\nThe National Weather Service issues low water advisories for portions of the Great Lakes when seiches of 2 feet or greater are likely to occur. Lake Erie is particularly prone to wind-caused seiches because of its shallowness and its elongation on a northeast-southwest axis, which frequently matches the direction of prevailing winds and therefore maximises the fetch of those winds. These can lead to extreme seiches of up to between the ends of the lake.\n\nThe effect is similar to a storm surge like that caused by hurricanes along ocean coasts, but the seiche effect can cause oscillation back and forth across the lake for some time. In 1954, Hurricane Hazel piled up water along the northwestern Lake Ontario shoreline near Toronto, causing extensive flooding, and established a seiche that subsequently caused flooding along the south shore.\n\nLake seiches can occur very quickly: on July 13, 1995, a large seiche on Lake Superior caused the water level to fall and then rise again by three feet (one metre) within fifteen minutes, leaving some boats hanging from the docks on their mooring lines when the water retreated. The same storm system that caused the 1995 seiche on Lake Superior produced a similar effect in Lake Huron, in which the water level at Port Huron changed by over two hours. On Lake Michigan, eight fishermen were swept away from piers at Montrose and North Avenue Beaches and drowned when a seiche hit the Chicago waterfront on June 26, 1954.\n\nLakes in seismically active areas, such as Lake Tahoe in California/Nevada, are significantly at risk from seiches. Geological evidence indicates that the shores of Lake Tahoe may have been hit by seiches and tsunamis as much as high in prehistoric times, and local researchers have called for the risk to be factored into emergency plans for the region.\n\nEarthquake-generated seiches can be observed thousands of miles away from the epicentre of a quake. Swimming pools are especially prone to seiches caused by earthquakes, as the ground tremors often match the resonant frequencies of small bodies of water. The 1994 Northridge earthquake in California caused swimming pools to overflow across southern California. The massive Good Friday earthquake that hit Alaska in 1964 caused seiches in swimming pools as far away as Puerto Rico. The earthquake that hit Lisbon, Portugal in 1755 caused seiches 2,000 miles (3,000 km) away in Loch Lomond, Loch Long, Loch Katrine and Loch Ness in Scotland and in canals in Sweden. The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake caused seiches in standing water bodies in many Indian states as well as in Bangladesh, Nepal and northern Thailand. Seiches were again observed in Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal in India as well as in many locations in Bangladesh during the 2005 Kashmir earthquake.\n\nThe 1950 Chayu-Upper Assam earthquake is known to have generated seiches as far away as Norway and southern England. Other earthquakes in the Indian sub-continent known to have generated seiches include the 1803 Kumaon-Barahat, 1819 Allah Bund, 1842 Central Bengal, 1905 Kangra, 1930 Dhubri, 1934 Nepal-Bihar, 2001 Bhuj, 2005 Nias, 2005 Teresa Island earthquakes. The February 27, 2010 Chile earthquake produced a seiche on Lake Pontchartrain, Louisiana with a height of around 0.5 feet. The 2010 Sierra El Mayor earthquake produced large seiches that quickly became an internet phenomenon.\n\nSeiches up to at least 1.8 m (6 feet) were observed in Sognefjorden, Norway during the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake.\n\nSeiches have been observed in seas such as the Adriatic Sea and the Baltic Sea. This results in the flooding of Venice and St. Petersburg, respectively, as both cities are constructed on former marshland. In St. Petersburg, seiche-induced flooding is common along the Neva River in the autumn. The seiche is driven by a low pressure region in the North Atlantic moving onshore, giving rise to cyclonic lows on the Baltic Sea. The low pressure of the cyclone draws greater-than-normal quantities of water into the virtually land-locked Baltic. As the cyclone continues inland, long, low-frequency seiche waves with wavelengths up to several hundred kilometres are established in the Baltic. When the waves reach the narrow and shallow Neva Bay, they become much higher — ultimately flooding the Neva embankments. Similar phenomena are observed at Venice, resulting in the MOSE Project, a system of 79 mobile barriers designed to protect the three entrances to the Venetian Lagoon.\n\nNagasaki Bay is a typical area in Japan where seiches have been observed from time to time, most often in the spring — especially in March. On 31 March 1979, the Nagasaki tide station recorded a maximum water-level displacement of , at that location due to the seiche. The maximum water-level displacement in the whole bay during this seiche event is assumed to have reached , at the bottom of the bay. Seiches in Western Kyushu — including Nagasaki Bay — are often induced by a low in the atmospheric pressure passing South of Kyushu island. Seiches in Nagasaki Bay have a period of about 30 to 40 minutes. Locally, is called . The word of \"abiki\" is considered to have been derived from , which literally means: the dragging-away () of a fishing net (). Seiches not only cause damage to the local fishery but also may result in flooding of the coast around the bay, as well as in the destruction of port facilities.\n\nSeiches can also be induced by tsunami, a wave train (series of waves) generated in a body of water by a pulsating or abrupt disturbance that vertically displaces the water column. On occasion, tsunamis can produce seiches as a result of local geographic peculiarities. For instance, the tsunami that hit Hawaii in 1946 had a fifteen-minute interval between wave fronts. The natural resonant period of Hilo Bay is about thirty minutes. That meant that every second wave was in phase with the motion of Hilo Bay, creating a seiche in the bay. As a result, Hilo suffered worse damage than any other place in Hawaii, with the tsunami/seiche reaching a height of 26 feet along the Hilo Bayfront, killing 96 people in the city alone. Seiche waves may continue for several days after a tsunami.\n\nTide-generated internal solitary waves (solitons) can excite coastal seiches at the following locations: Magueyes Island in Puerto Rico,\n\nPuerto Princesa in Palawan Island,\n\nTrincomalee Bay in Sri Lanka,\nand in the Bay of Fundy in eastern Canada, where seiches cause some of the highest recorded tidal fluctuations in the world.\nA dynamical mechanism exists for the generation of coastal seiches by deep-sea internal waves. These waves can generate a sufficient current at the shelf break to excite coastal seiches.\n\nAlthough the bulk of the technical literature addresses surface seiches, which are readily observed, seiches are also observed beneath the lake surface acting along the thermocline in constrained bodies of water.\n\nIn analogy with the Merian formula, the expected period of the internal wave can be expressed as:\n\nwhere \"T\" is the natural period, \"L\" is the length of the water body, formula_4 the average thicknesses of the two layers separated by stratification (e.g. epilimnion and hypolimnion), formula_5 the densities of these two same layers and \"g\" the acceleration of gravity.\n\nEngineers consider seiche phenomena in the design of flood protection works (e.g., Saint Petersburg Dam), reservoirs and dams (e.g., Grand Coulee Dam), potable water storage basins, harbours and even spent nuclear fuel storage basins.\n\n\nGeneral\nRelationship to aquatic \"monsters\"\n"}
{"id": "939752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939752", "title": "Steven M. Newman", "text": "Steven M. Newman\n\nSteven M. Newman (born May 31, 1954) is an American world trekker, public speaker, freelance writer, author, and adjunct professor. From April 1983 to April 1987, he walked solo around the world and became popularly known as “The Worldwalker.” The author or co-author of three books, he has given over 2,300 speeches to universities, schools, churches, companies, and other groups. The longest hiking trail in Ohio’s state park system, the Steven Newman Worldwalker Perimeter Trail, has been permanently renamed after him, and he has been honored with that state’s highest award, as well as with a doctorate in humanities. In 2012 he signed his third multiyear shoe and sportswear endorsement contract that will pay him royalties until he reaches the age of 70 with the company Aqua Two.\n\nNewman was born in the village of Bethel, Ohio, to Bethel native Edwin Newman, who is of English and Scottish descent, and Mary Kennedy from Buffalo, New York, who is of Irish descent. His father, a salesman, met Mary, a nurse, when they chanced upon each other in an elevator at the University of Cincinnati. Mary was at that time a nurse for the singer Lena Horne. They married and lived in Bethel until Steven’s birth, at which time they moved to Florida for several years before returning to Bethel.\n\nSteven lived in Titusville, Florida and Jacksonville, Florida until the finish of the fourth grade. His parents moved back to Ohio then, and he attended public schools in Bethel through grade 12. In high school he became well known for his ultra-long running feats and was given the nickname of “Bebe” (after a famous Kenyan marathoner of that time). He also took the opportunity during those years to hitchhike (without his parents’ permission) to several distant points across the USA. He graduated with a BS in Journalism from Ohio University in 1972. While at OU, he ran cross country, was successful in orienteering, participated in the ROTC program for three years, and took many English classes. He paid his way through college by working each summer as a uranium prospector in the wilds of Wyoming’s Red Desert. His boss was former Republican congressman John Wold, and the project Newman worked on (often alone with only his red collie Charley as a companion) was highly experimental in nature and shrouded in some secrecy.\n\nWithin a few months of graduating from Ohio University, Newman started working (at $150 a week) as a reporter for the \"Casper Star-Tribune\", Wyoming’s largest newspaper. After a couple years he quit the newspaper (now at a salary of around $180 a week) to pursue freelance writing and to prepare for a goal he had had since he was nine: a walk around the world, documenting his encounters with the various cultures. After five years of prep that included strenuous hikes and camping in the West, saving $25,000 from roustabouting on small drilling rigs, poring over hundreds of topographical maps in the Casper, Wyoming and New York City, New York public libraries, and visiting embassies in Washington, DC, he returned to Bethel to begin what would eventually be officially recognized as the first documented solo walk around the world.\n\nSteven’s first book advance (for \"Letters From Steven\") was for $500. His next three book advances (including the paperback version of one of his two other books) would each be for six figures. The most popular of his books, \"Worldwalk\", was published internationally and selected as a Main Selection for America’s oldest and most prestigious book club. His walk around the world was recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records and led to thousands of speech invitations and many honors. A one-hour documentary about the Worldwalk was done by film director Brian Doubleday and shown on several PBS stations across the USA.\n\nIn the years since his solo backpacking trek around the world, Newman has walked the lengths of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. His exploits have also resulted in sponsor-paid trips to other nations such as China, where in 2012 he visited 14 cities, lectured at China’s most prestigious university (Peking University), and signed a 12-year endorsement contract. Another company in Japan also markets apparel with Newman’s name and well-known stickman logo on them.\n\nPresently Newman does extensive traveling to other parts of the world (including, in Bolivia in 2012, a hike the length of the Choro Trail and a wild mountain bike ride with a book fan, Julian Cook, down the “Road of Death”). He and his wife, Darci, reside on nearly 25 acres along the Ohio River on a heavily forested hillside known as Worldwalker Hill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53089821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53089821", "title": "Tau Lupi", "text": "Tau Lupi\n\nThe Bayer designation τ Lupi (Tau Lupi) is shared by two star systems in the constellation Lupus:\n"}
{"id": "4769408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4769408", "title": "Thames Measurement", "text": "Thames Measurement\n\nThames Measurement, also known as Thames Tonnage, is a system for measuring ships and boats. It was created in 1855 as a variation of Builder's Old Measurement by the Royal Thames Yacht Club, and was designed for small vessels, such as yachts. It was originally used for calculating the port dues for yachts; the formula was also used in some early handicapping systems for yacht racing.\n\nThe calculation of Thames Tonnage uses the following formula:\n\nwhere:\n\nThis can be simplified as:\n\n"}
{"id": "22632319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22632319", "title": "The Heat and Warmth Fund", "text": "The Heat and Warmth Fund\n\nThe Heat And Warmth Fund (THAW) is an independent 501(c)(3) non-profit agency that provides low-income individuals and families throughout Michigan with emergency energy assistance and advocates for long-term solutions to energy issues. It is Michigan's statewide utility assistance provider of last resort.\n\nSince its founding in 1985, THAW has provided more than $145 million in assistance to more than 200,000 Michigan households. \n\nTHAW press release is a dead link\n\n"}
{"id": "16840689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16840689", "title": "Thermal capillary wave", "text": "Thermal capillary wave\n\nThermal motion is able to produce capillary waves at the molecular scale. At this scale,\ngravity and hydrodynamics can be neglected, and only the surface tension contribution is\nrelevant.\n\nCapillary wave theory (CWT) is a classic account of how thermal fluctuations distort an interface.\nIt starts from some intrinsic surface formula_1that is distorted. Its energy will be\nproportional to its area:\n\nwhere the first equality is the area in this (the Monge) representation, and the second\napplies for small values of the derivatives (surfaces not too rough). The constant of proportionality, formula_3, is the surface tension.\n\nBy performing a Fourier analysis treatment, normal modes are easily found. Each contributes an energy proportional to the square of its amplitude; therefore, according to classical statistical mechanics, equipartition holds, and the mean energy of each mode will be formula_4. Surprisingly, this result leads to a divergent surface (the width of the interface is bound to diverge with its area). This divergence is nevertheless very mild: even for displacements on the order of meters the deviation of the surface is comparable to the size of the molecules. Moreover, the introduction of an external field removes the divergence: the action of gravity is sufficient to keep the width fluctuation on the order of one molecular diameter for areas larger than about 1 mm2 (Ref. 2).\n\n"}
{"id": "9824816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9824816", "title": "Thirteener", "text": "Thirteener\n\nIn mountaineering in the United States, a thirteener is a mountain that exceeds above mean sea level, similar to the more familiar \"fourteeners,\" which exceed . In most instances, \"thirteeners\" refers only to those peaks between 13,000 and 13,999 feet in elevation.\n\nThe importance of thirteeners is greatest in Colorado, which has the majority of such peaks in North America with over 600 of them. Despite the large number of peaks, over 20 peak baggers have reported climbing all of Colorado's thirteeners. Thirteeners are also significant in states whose highpoints fall between 13,000 and 13,999 feet. Regarding whether or not peaks in excess of 13,999 feet should be considered as \"thirteeners\", this article will count them as such for statistical purposes, but concentrate its focus on those peaks less than 14,000 feet since the higher peaks are already covered in the fourteeners list.\n\nNot all summits over 13,000 feet qualify as thirteeners, but only those summits that mountaineers consider to be independent. Objective standards for independence include topographic prominence and isolation (distance from a higher summit), or a combination. However thirteener lists do not always consistently use such objective rules. A rule commonly used by mountaineers in the contiguous United States is that a peak must have at least of prominence to qualify. According to the Mountaineering Club of Alaska, it is standard in Alaska to use a prominence rule rather than a 300-foot rule. These are the standards applied for the lists below.\nThirteeners are found in nine U.S. states. This table summarizes their numbers based on each state's prominence criteria:\n\nBy the most detailed count, Colorado has 637 peaks that exceed and meet the prominence criteria, of which 53 are fourteeners. The highest of them less than 14,000 feet are as follows (the rank includes higher peaks):\nGrizzly Peak is not only the name of Colorado's highest thirteener, but the state has four other Grizzly Peaks plus one Grizzly Mountain on the list:\n\nOther notable Colorado thirteeners include:\n\nCalifornia has the second greatest number of thirteeners with 149 of them, of which 12 are fourteeners. The highest under 14,000 feet are as follows (the rank includes higher peaks):\n\nOther notable California thirteeners include:\n\nAlaska has at least 41 thirteeners that meet its more stringent prominence criteria of 500 ft, of which 20 are also fourteeners. Different sources list varying numbers of 13,000+ ft peaks in the state, mainly because many of the peaks (especially those that are sub-peaks of a higher mountain) are unnamed and have no spot elevations given on the USGS topographical maps. Using a 300' interpolated prominence criterion, there are 61 13,000+ ft peaks in Alaska. The following list may miss a few peaks that should be included:\n\nWyoming has 34 thirteeners with at least 300 ft of prominence, but no fourteeners. 30 of the 34 are located in the rugged and remote Wind River Range. The highest of them are:\n\nOther notable Wyoming thirteeners include: \n\nUtah has 17 thirteeners with at least 300 ft of prominence, but no fourteeners. All of them are located in the remote Uinta Mountains near the Wyoming border. The highest of the thirteeners are:\n\nNew Mexico has 3 thirteeners, all located within about of each other in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains.\n\nHawaii has two thirteeners, the great shield volcanoes which comprise the bulk of the Big Island of Hawaii.\n\nNevada has only a single thirteener that meets the threshold for inclusion, Wheeler Peak in Great Basin National Park with an impressive of prominence. However, the highest point in the state is Boundary Peak, which is a sub-peak of California's Montgomery Peak with only of prominence.\nMount Rainier is the only mountain in Washington state that exceeds , and it has two summits that meet the prominence criteria, both of which are included on the list of fourteeners.\n\n"}
{"id": "31940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31940", "title": "United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea", "text": "United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), also called the Law of the Sea Convention or the Law of the Sea treaty, is the international agreement that resulted from the third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS III), which took place between 1973 and 1982. The Law of the Sea Convention defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with respect to their use of the world's oceans, establishing guidelines for businesses, the environment, and the management of marine natural resources. The Convention, concluded in 1982, replaced four 1958 treaties. UNCLOS came into force in 1994, a year after Guyana became the 60th nation to ratify the treaty. , 167 countries and the European Union have joined in the Convention. It is uncertain as to what extent the Convention codifies customary international law.\n\nWhile the Secretary-General of the United Nations receives instruments of ratification and accession and the UN provides support for meetings of states party to the Convention, the UN has no direct operational role in the implementation of the Convention. There is, however, a role played by organizations such as the International Maritime Organization, the International Whaling Commission, and the International Seabed Authority (ISA). (The ISA was established by the UN Convention.)\n\nUNCLOS replaces the older 'freedom of the seas' concept, dating from the 17th century: national rights were limited to a specified belt of water extending from a nation's coastlines, usually (Three-mile limit), according to the 'cannon shot' rule developed by the Dutch jurist Cornelius van Bynkershoek. All waters beyond national boundaries were considered international waters: free to all nations, but belonging to none of them (the \"mare liberum\" principle promulgated by Hugo Grotius).\n\nIn the early 20th century, some nations expressed their desire to extend national claims: to include mineral resources, to protect fish stocks, and to provide the means to enforce pollution controls. (The League of Nations called a 1930 conference at The Hague, but no agreements resulted.) Using the customary international law principle of a nation's right to protect its natural resources, President Harry S. Truman in 1945 extended United States control to all the natural resources of its continental shelf. Other nations were quick to follow suit. Between 1946 and 1950, Chile, Peru, and Ecuador extended their rights to a distance of to cover their Humboldt Current fishing grounds. Other nations extended their territorial seas to .\n\nBy 1967, only 25 nations still used the old limit, while 66 nations had set a territorial limit and eight had set a limit. , only two countries still use the limit: Jordan and Palau. That limit is also used in certain Australian islands, an area of Belize, some Japanese straits, certain areas of Papua New Guinea, and a few British Overseas Territories, such as Anguilla.\n\nIn 1956, the United Nations held its first Conference on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS I) at Geneva, Switzerland. UNCLOS I resulted in four treaties concluded in 1958:\n\n\nAlthough UNCLOS I was considered a success, it left open the important issue of breadth of territorial waters.\n\nIn 1960, the United Nations held the second Conference on the Law of the Sea (\"UNCLOS II\"); however, the six-week Geneva conference did not result in any new agreements. Generally speaking, developing nations and third world countries participated only as clients, allies, or dependents of the United States or the Soviet Union, with no significant voice of their own.\n\nThe issue of varying claims of territorial waters was raised in the UN in 1967 by Arvid Pardo of Malta, and in 1973 the \"Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea\" was convened in New York. In an attempt to reduce the possibility of groups of nation-states dominating the negotiations, the conference used a consensus process rather than majority vote. With more than 160 nations participating, the conference lasted until 1982. The resulting convention came into force on 16 November 1994, one year after the 60th state, Guyana, ratified the treaty.\n\nThe convention introduced a number of provisions. The most significant issues covered were setting limits, navigation, archipelagic status and transit regimes, exclusive economic zones (EEZs), continental shelf jurisdiction, deep seabed mining, the exploitation regime, protection of the marine environment, scientific research, and settlement of disputes.\n\nThe convention set the limit of various areas, measured from a carefully defined baseline. (Normally, a sea baseline follows the low-water line, but when the coastline is deeply indented, has fringing islands or is highly unstable, straight baselines may be used.) The areas are as follows:\n\n\nAside from its provisions defining ocean boundaries, the convention establishes general obligations for safeguarding the marine environment and protecting freedom of scientific research on the high seas, and also creates an innovative legal regime for controlling mineral resource exploitation in deep seabed areas beyond national jurisdiction, through an International Seabed Authority and the Common heritage of mankind principle.\n\nLandlocked states are given a right of access to and from the sea, without taxation of traffic through transit states.\n\nPart XI of the Convention provides for a regime relating to minerals on the seabed outside any state's territorial waters or EEZ (Exclusive Economic Zones). It establishes an International Seabed Authority (ISA) to authorize seabed exploration and mining and collect and distribute the seabed mining royalty.\n\nThe United States objected to the provisions of Part XI of the Convention on several grounds, arguing that the treaty was unfavorable to American economic and security interests. Due to Part XI, the United States refused to ratify the UNCLOS, although it expressed agreement with the remaining provisions of the Convention.\n\nFrom 1982 to 1990, the United States accepted all but Part XI as customary international law, while attempting to establish an alternative regime for exploitation of the minerals of the deep seabed. An agreement was made with other seabed mining nations and licenses were granted to four international consortia. Concurrently, the Preparatory Commission was established to prepare for the eventual coming into force of the Convention-recognized claims by applicants, sponsored by signatories of the Convention. Overlaps between the two groups were resolved, but a decline in the demand for minerals from the seabed made the seabed regime significantly less relevant. In addition, the decline of Socialism and the fall of Communism in the late 1980s had removed much of the support for some of the more contentious Part XI provisions.\n\nIn 1990, consultations were begun between signatories and non-signatories (including the United States) over the possibility of modifying the Convention to allow the industrialized countries to join the Convention. The resulting 1994 Agreement on Implementation was adopted as a binding international Convention. It mandated that key articles, including those on limitation of seabed production and mandatory technology transfer, would not be applied, that the United States, if it became a member, would be guaranteed a seat on the Council of the International Seabed Authority, and finally, that voting would be done in groups, with each group able to block decisions on substantive matters. The 1994 Agreement also established a Finance Committee that would originate the financial decisions of the Authority, to which the largest donors would automatically be members and in which decisions would be made by consensus.\n\nOn 1 February 2011, the Seabed Disputes Chamber of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) issued an advisory opinion concerning the legal responsibilities and obligations of States Parties to the Convention with respect to the sponsorship of activities in the Area in accordance with Part XI of the Convention and the 1994 Agreement. The advisory opinion was issued in response to a formal request made by the International Seabed Authority following two prior applications the Authority's Legal and Technical Commission had received from the Republics of Nauru and Tonga regarding proposed activities (a plan of work to explore for polymetallic nodules) to be undertaken in the Area by two State-sponsored contractors – Nauru Ocean Resources Inc. (sponsored by the Republic of Nauru) and Tonga Offshore Mining Ltd. (sponsored by the Kingdom of Tonga). The advisory opinion set forth the international legal responsibilities and obligations of Sponsoring States AND the Authority to ensure that sponsored activities do not harm the marine environment, consistent with the applicable provisions of UNCLOS Part XI, Authority regulations, ITLOS case law, other international environmental treaties, and Principle 15 of the UN Rio Declaration.\n\nThe convention was opened for signature on 10 December 1982 and entered into force on 16 November 1994 upon deposition of the 60th instrument of ratification. The convention has been ratified by 168 parties, which includes 167 states (164 member states of the United Nations plus the UN Observer state Palestine, as well as the Cook Islands, Niue and the European Union).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342646", "title": "United States National Grassland", "text": "United States National Grassland\n\nNational Grassland is a classification of protected and managed federal lands in the United States authorized by Title III of the Bankhead–Jones Farm Tenant Act of 1937. For administrative purposes, they are essentially identical to United States National Forests, except that grasslands are areas primarily consisting of prairie. Like National Forests, National Grasslands may be open for hunting, grazing, mineral extraction, recreation and other uses. Various National Grasslands are typically administered in conjunction with nearby National Forests. \n\nAll but three National Grasslands are on or at the edge of the Great Plains. Those three are in southeastern Idaho, northeastern California, and central Oregon. The three National Grasslands in North Dakota, together with one in northwestern South Dakota, are administered jointly as the Dakota Prairie Grasslands. National Grasslands are generally much smaller than National Forests. Whereas a typical National Forest would be about , the average Grassland size is . The largest National Grassland, the Little Missouri National Grassland in North Dakota, covers , which is approximately the median size of a National Forest. As of September 30, 2007, the total area of all 20 National Grasslands was .\n\nThe catastrophic Dust Bowl of the 1930s led to the creation of the Soil Conservation Service in 1933. This and subsequent federal laws paved the way for establishing national grasslands.\n\n"}
{"id": "20301497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20301497", "title": "Veil of Isis", "text": "Veil of Isis\n\nThe veil of Isis is a metaphor and allegorical artistic motif in which nature is personified as the goddess Isis covered by a veil or mantle, representing the inaccessibility of nature's secrets. It is often combined with a related motif, in which nature is portrayed as a goddess with multiple breasts who represents Isis, Artemis, or a combination of both.\n\nThe motif was based on a statue of Isis, or of the goddess Neith who was sometimes equated with her, in the Egyptian city of Sais mentioned by the Greco-Roman authors Plutarch and Proclus. They claimed the statue bore an inscription saying \"I am all that has been and is and shall be; and no mortal has ever lifted my mantle.\" Illustrations of Isis with her veil being lifted were popular from the late 17th to the early 19th century, often as allegorical representations of Enlightenment science and philosophy uncovering nature's secrets. Authors at the end of the 18th century, foreshadowing the Romantic movement, began using the lifting of Isis's veil as a metaphor for revealing awe-inspiring truth. Helena Blavatsky, in \"Isis Unveiled\" in 1877, used the metaphor for the spiritual truths that her Theosophical belief system hoped to discover, and modern ceremonial magic includes a ritual called the Rending of the Veil to bring the magician to a higher state of spiritual awareness.\n\nThe first mention of the veil of Isis appears in \"On Isis and Osiris\", a philosophical interpretation of ancient Egyptian religion by Plutarch, a Greek writer in the late first and early second centuries CE. He wrote of a seated statue of a goddess in the Egyptian city of Sais that bore the inscription \"I am all that has been and is and shall be; and no mortal has ever lifted my garment.\" Plutarch called the garment a \"peplos\"; the word is translated in English as \"mantle\" or \"veil\". Plutarch identified the goddess as \"Athena, whom [the Egyptians] consider to be Isis.\" Sais was the cult center of the goddess Neith, whom the Greeks compared to their goddess Athena and was thus the goddess that Plutarch spoke of. In Plutarch's time Isis was the preeminent goddess in Egyptian religion and was frequently syncretized with Neith, which is why Plutarch equated the two. More than 300 years after Plutarch, the Neoplatonist philosopher Proclus wrote of the same statue in Book I of his \"Commentaries on Plato's \"Timaeus\"\". In this version, the garment is a \"chiton\", \"no mortal\" is replaced by \"no one\", and a third statement is added: \"The fruit of my womb was the sun\".\n\nProclus said the statue was in the \"adyton\" of a temple at Sais, but the inner areas of Egyptian temples were not accessible to anyone but priests, and it is unlikely that a statue of a deity would have been permanently veiled; priests saw the cult image of the god every day when performing temple rites. However, a statue in a temple's courtyards or halls could have borne an inscription similar to the one Plutarch and Proclus related. The first part of the inscription—\"I am all that has been and is and shall be\"—means the goddess encompasses everything. This claim was commonly made of creator gods such as Ra or Amun in Egyptian religion; if the same was said about Isis, it reflected her increased status in Greco-Roman times, in which she was often said to be the creator of the world. The second part—\"no one has ever lifted my mantle\"—implies that the goddess was virginal, a claim that was occasionally made of Isis in Greco-Roman times but conflicted with the long-standing belief that she and her husband Osiris conceived their son Horus. Proclus's version suggests that the goddess conceived and gave birth to the sun without the participation of a male deity, which would reflect Egyptian myths about Neith as the mother of the sun god Ra. Another possible explanation, suggested by the Egyptologist Jan Assmann, is that the latter part of the Egyptian inscription said \"There is nobody except me\", proclaiming that the all-encompassing goddess was unique, and was mistranslated into Greek as \"there is nobody who opened [or: uncovered] my face.\"\n\nSeveral other sources influenced the motif of the veiled Isis. One was a tradition that linked Isis with nature and the goddess Artemis. European art has a long tradition of personifying nature as a motherly figure. Starting in the 16th century, this motif was influenced by the iconography of the goddess Artemis of Ephesus (also known under the name of her Roman equivalent, Diana). The Ephesian Artemis was depicted with round protuberances on her chest that may originally have been jewelry but came to be interpreted as breasts. Isis was sometimes compared with Artemis, and the Roman writer Macrobius, in the fourth century CE, wrote, \"Isis is the earth or nature that is under the sun. That is why the goddess's entire body bristles with a multitude of breasts placed close to one another [as in the case of Artemis of Ephesus], because all things are nourished by earth or by nature.\" Thus, the 16th-century artists represented nature as Isis-Artemis with multiple breasts.\n\nA second influence was a tradition that nature is mysterious. It goes back to an aphorism by the Greek philosopher Heraclitus in the late sixth or early fifth century BCE, which is traditionally translated as \"Nature loves to hide.\" Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\" in the 1590s personified nature as a woman with a veil, though without a direct connection to Isis, although Isis appears elsewhere in the work. Several illustrators in the 17th century used the anonymous woman with a veil in the same way. In the 1650s, Athanasius Kircher's \"Oedipus Aegyptiacus\" explicitly explained Isis's veil as an emblem of the secrets of nature.\n\nThe frontispiece to Gerhard Blasius's 1681 book \"Anatome Animalum\", engraved by Jan Luyken, was the first depiction of a many-breasted Isis-Artemis figure with her veil being removed. It shows a personification of science removing the veil, as an allegory for the way science uncovers nature's secrets. This metaphor was reused in the frontispieces of many of Antonie van Leeuwenhoek's works, and then in illustrations to other scientific works throughout the 18th century. In some cases the veiled figure is a statue, reminiscent of the original statue of Artemis at Ephesus, while in others it is a living woman. The motif was sometimes elaborated with other metaphors, so that, for example, in the frontispiece to \"The Philosophy of Nature\" by Jean-Baptiste-Claude Delisle de Sales, Nature unveils herself to a philosopher as he overthrows Despotism and Superstition. The unveiling of the Isis-figure thus expressed the hope, prevalent during the Age of Enlightenment, that philosophy and science would triumph over unreason to uncover nature's deepest truths. This motif continued beyond the Enlightenment into the 19th century. An example is Louis-Ernest Barrias's 1899 sculpture \"Nature Unveiling Herself Before Science\", in which the multiple breasts are omitted and the Isis-figure wears a scarab on her gown that hints at her Egyptian background.\n\nAnother interpretation of Isis's veil emerged in the late 18th century, in keeping with the Romantic movement that was developing at the time, in which nature constitutes an awe-inspiring mystery rather than prosaic knowledge.\n\nThis interpretation was influenced by the ancient mystery initiations dedicated to Isis that were performed in the Greco-Roman world. Although these rites were developed in Hellenistic or Roman times, under the influence of earlier Greco-Roman mystery rites, both classical authors and 18th-century scholars assumed them to have been age-old features of ancient Egyptian religion. Many Freemasons, members of a European fraternal organization that attained its modern form in the early 18th century, adopted Egyptian motifs and came to believe their rituals could be traced back to the mysteries of Isis. One Freemason in the 1780s, Karl Leonhard Reinhold, tried to reconcile Freemasonry's traditional origin story, which traces Freemasonry back to ancient Israel, with its enthusiasm for Egyptian themes. To do so, he interpreted the first statement on the statue at Sais, \"I am all that has been and is and shall be,\" as a declaration of pantheism, in which nature and divinity are identical. Reinhold claimed the public face of Egyptian religion was polytheistic, but the Egyptian mysteries were designed to reveal the deeper, pantheistic truth to elite initiates. He also said the statement \"I am that I am\", spoken by the Jewish God in the Book of Exodus, meant the same as the Saite inscription and indicated that Judaism was a descendant of the ancient Egyptian belief system. Under the influence of Reinhold's interpretation, other Freemasons came to see the veiled Isis as a symbol of an impenetrable enigma, representing truth and being as well as nature, a deity that, as Assmann puts it, was regarded as \"too all-encompassing to have a name.\"\n\nImmanuel Kant connected the motif of Isis's veil with his concept of the sublime, saying, \"Perhaps no one has said anything more sublime, or expressed a thought more sublimely, than in that inscription on the temple of Isis (Mother Nature).\" According to Kant, the sublime evoked both wonder and terror, and these emotions appeared frequently in the works of late 18th and early 19th-century authors using the motif of the veil. The ecstatic nature of ancient mystery rites themselves contributed to the focus on emotions. Friedrich Schiller, for instance, wrote an essay on Egyptian and Jewish religion that mostly copied Reinhold's work but put a new emphasis on the emotional buildup that surrounded the mysteries. He said it prepared the initiate to confront the awe-inspiring power of nature at the climax of the rite. Similarly, a frontispiece by Henry Fuseli, made for Erasmus Darwin's poem \"The Temple of Nature\" in 1803, explicitly shows the unveiling of a statue of Isis as the climax of the initiation.\n\nHelena Blavatsky's 1877 book \"Isis Unveiled\", one of the foundational texts for the esoteric belief system of Theosophy, used the metaphor of the veil as its title. Isis is not prominent in the book, but in it Blavatsky said that philosophers try to lift the veil of Isis, or nature, but see only her physical forms. She added, \"The soul within escapes their view; and the Divine Mother has no answer for them,\" implying that theosophy will reveal truths about nature that science and philosophy cannot.\n\nThe \"Parting of the Veil\", \"Piercing of the Veil\", \"Rending of the Veil\" or \"Lifting of the Veil\" refers, in the Western mystery tradition and contemporary witchcraft, to opening the \"veil\" of matter, thus gaining entry to a state of spiritual awareness in which the mysteries of nature are revealed. In ceremonial magic, the Sign of the Rending of the Veil is a symbolic gesture performed by the magician with the intention of creating such an opening. It is performed starting with the arms extended forwards and hands flat against each other (either palm to palm or back to back), then spreading the hands apart with a rending motion until the arms point out to both sides and the body is in a T shape. After the working is complete, the magician will typically perform the corresponding Sign of the Closing of the Veil, which has the same movements in reverse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46731696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46731696", "title": "Western Pacific Naval Symposium", "text": "Western Pacific Naval Symposium\n\nThe Western Pacific Naval Symposium are a series of biennial meetings of the Pacific nations to discuss naval matters held on even numbered years. A WPNS workshop is held on odd numbered years in between the symposiums.\n\nAt the International Seapower Symposium in 1987 agreement was reached \"to establish a forum where leaders of regional navies could meet to discuss cooperative initiatives\". The first meeting was held in 1988.\n\nMember countries as of 2010: Australia, Brunei, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, France, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, People's Republic of China, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Russia, Singapore, Thailand, Tonga, United States of America, Vietnam. Observers: Bangladesh, India, Mexico, Peru, The United Kingdom. \n\nAt the 2014 WPNS, agreement was reached on the Code for Unplanned Encounters at Sea.\n"}
{"id": "48954986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48954986", "title": "Wind power in Uruguay", "text": "Wind power in Uruguay\n\nWind power in Uruguay generates a rapidly growing proportion of the country's electricity mix. Overall, the majority of Uruguayan electricity generation is derived from hydroelectric sources.\n\nIn 2016, the country’s total installed wind power capacity surpassed 1,000 MW. As of 2016, this figure comprised 17 percent of the country’s overall electricity generation, marking a sudden increase in the overall share from the 2 percent all alternative renewable energy sources made up in 2012. In July 2018 UTE, the country's power plants and transmission administrator, announced that record electricity demand was being met entirely by renewable sources, of which wind power comprised 34 percent.\n\nThe national government has supported this nascent but fast-moving wind power transformation by providing a policy environment of incentives like feed-in tariffs and utility-scale bidding. The former helped incentivize small-scale installations, while the latter enabled large-scale projects. \n\nIn 2008, the Uruguayan government set a target of 15% joint participation in the national electricity grid by a number of alternative renewable sources, namely biomass, wind power, and mini-hydro. Wind power alone far surpassed that proportion in the several years following the setting of that goal. Electricity generation auctions, first put forward in 2006, have been a primary vehicle for larger-scale deployment of mini-hydro and wind power deployment over the past decade.\n\nSome analysts have credited Uruguay's ability to leverage UNDP funding to create reliable policy frameworks that would eventually encourage greater standalone private investment in the sector. \n\nIts proximity to Argentina and Brazil make for relatively easy electricity trade between the countries, and in 2016 Uruguay began exporting excess wind power generation to neighboring Argentina. The two countries' state-operated utilities had previously sold electricity bilaterally, but the 2016 wind power sales marked the first Uruguayan-Argentine electricity trade between private companies. Meanwhile, along the Uruguayan border with Brazil, wind power projects are being approached through a binational partnership with Brazilian utility Eletrobras.\n\nThere are about 30 wind farms in Uruguay:\n\n"}
{"id": "7095889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7095889", "title": "World's longest hot dog", "text": "World's longest hot dog\n\nThe current world's longest meat hot dog record holder measured and was manufactured by Novex of Paraguay in 2011. Sara Lee Corp. made a hot dog, long, in commemoration of the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. \"Guinness World Records\" does not reflect this record in any of its publications as of 2006. Speculation surrounding the 1996-foot record is that although the hot dog was most likely continuous, the bun (an integral part of the hot dog unit) was not. Since October 2017 the town Flensburg, in Germany claimed to have manufactured the World's longest hot dog with .\n\nOn July 15, 2011, a hot dog measuring and weighing approximately was made by Ochsi to obtain the world record. The hot dog bun weighed approximately and was made by Myriam Products. International media were on hand, and supporting documents have been verified by Johanna Hessling, of Guinness. The hot dog was made as the central part of a media event surrounding the 2011 Expo in Asuncion, Paraguay. After the official measurement, the hot dog was cut up and eaten by those present.\n\nOn October 3, 2017 was by local authorities in Flensburg on the seabridge of the suburb Glücksburg a U-shaped hot dog measured with . After the official measurement, the hot dog was also cut up and eaten by those present.\n\n\nCreating a long hot dog is not much of a feat. This is because the hot dog is structurally quite sound, and remarkably flexible. In the August 2006 record breaking attempt, the hot dog was manufactured by Shizuoka Meat Producers, and wound into a large plastic barrel which was easily transported inside a delivery van.\n\nThe limiting factor for breaking this type of record is the bun. The bun, in order to remain in one continuous unit, needs to be baked in its final form. For the All-Japan Bread Association, this meant the connection of the longest conveyor belt possible with the equipment available to them. The dough was assembled in half-meter sections, then pressed together to create a longer tube of dough, which was then fed through the ovens via conveyor, and carried away from the ovens by another conveyor. The key was to make sure that the already-cooked bun did not move at a faster rate than the bun behind it because this would cause the bun to pull apart. The wiener was fed through the oven at the same time to cook it. There also needed to be space outside the oven to store the bun and wiener until the entire bun had been baked. To allow for enough room for this to happen, the ovens and prep area were set up outside the ballroom of the Akasaka Prince Hotel on the loading dock, and the bun and wiener were fed into the ballroom along the conveyor as they exited the oven.\n\nUpon completion, the bun was sliced down the middle by bakers, and spectators were asked to don rubber gloves and first lift the wiener in one piece for photos, and then insert it into the bun. After being topped with mustard and ketchup, the completed hot dog was lifted by the assembled spectators off the conveyor for photos. Finally, the official measurement was completed, and the wiener was in length, with the bun coming in at in length. After photos and video of the official measurement were completed, the hot dog was cut into sections and the assembled spectators each had a piece. However, this only used about of the hot dog.\n"}
{"id": "8303898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8303898", "title": "World Curling Rankings", "text": "World Curling Rankings\n\nThe World Curling Rankings system is designed to track and list the amount of success achieved by each member association of the World Curling Federation (WCF) in a given curling season. The system, which was implemented in December 2006, is similar to the ranking system used by FIFA. The events taken into account when calculating each nation's score include the Winter Olympics, the World Curling Championships, the European Curling Championships, and the Pacific Curling Championships. The system was developed by Patrick Hürlimann, who is a former Olympic champion and was the vice president of the WCF from 2010 to 2012.\n\nThe points are calculated for each nation based on performance during the last six curling seasons. Results in seasons prior to the current season are scaled by the following factors:\nPoints are allocated based on the final rankings of each nation at an eligible event.\n\nThe points distributions are given for each event as follows:\n\nAll nations that qualify for the World Curling Championships receive 50 points, regardless of final ranking in regional events, if applicable.\n\nNations in the European or Pacific Curling Championships that do not qualify for the World Championships receive less than 50 points. Based on their final ranking in the tournament, nations receive 49 or fewer points, in decrements of 1 point.\n\n"}
