{"id": "35005710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35005710", "title": "5Rhythms", "text": "5Rhythms\n\n5Rhythms is a movement meditation practice devised by Gabrielle Roth in the late 1970s. It draws from indigenous and world traditions using tenets of shamanistic, ecstatic, mystical and eastern philosophy. It also draws from Gestalt therapy, the human potential movement and transpersonal psychology.\nFundamental to the practice is the idea that everything is energy, and moves in waves, patterns and rhythms.\n\nRoth describes the practice as a soul journey, and says that by moving the body, releasing the heart, and freeing the mind, one can connect to the essence of the soul, the source of inspiration in which an individual has unlimited possibility and potential.\n\nThe practice of the 5Rhythms is said by Gabrielle Roth to put the body in motion in order to still the mind. The five rhythms (in order) are Flowing, Staccato, Chaos, Lyrical and Stillness. The 5Rhythms, when danced in sequence, are known as a \"Wave.\" A typical Wave takes about an hour to dance.\n\nLonger workshops may, according to \"The Dancing Path\", explore emotion, the cycle of life, the ego, relationships and spiritual vision.\n\nThe work is taught through a series of maps that explore the terrain of the inner and outer worlds of individuals, their relationships to others and the space around them. The maps offer a soul journey by exploring embodiment, emotions, the life cycle, the psyche, and the archetypes. The rhythms offer understanding of people's innate powers – being, loving, knowing, seeing and healing.\n\nThe first map, \"Waves\" teaches embodiment of the five distinct rhythms. To embody the rhythms means to access the deep internal wisdom that human bodies contain. The \"Heartbeat\" map teaches how people have embodied and how they express the emotions of fear, anger, sadness, joy and compassion; while the \"Cycles\" map provides insight and understanding about how one has internalized conditioning and relationships throughout the life cycle, specifically in the stages of birth, childhood, puberty, maturity and death. Insight and understanding of the ego is delivered through the psyche map, \"Mirrors\".\n\nRoth drew a circular \"Medicine Mandala\" that related each rhythm to an emotion, a stage of life, a way of perceiving, and an aspect of the self.\n\nRoth founded \"The Moving Center\" in New York in 1977 as a base for her workshops, and to train and develop teachers. \"5Rhythms Global\" was founded in 2013 as the international Institute training 5Rhythms teachers worldwide. The 5Rhythms Teachers Association was founded in 2007 as a professional association serving the continuing education of accredited 5Rhythms teachers. The 5Rhythms movement spread worldwide, and in 2017 there were 396 certified teachers and SpaceHolders in 50+ countries. 5Rhythms also forms part of the Open Floor movement practice designed by Andrea Juhan.\n\nCharlotte Macleod, writing in the \"London Evening Standard\" in 2009, describes dancing the 5Rhythms as a kind of antidote to life in a large city, and how she was attracted to a dance class by a video of Thom Yorke. The class leaves her \"mentally and physically refreshed, and oddly connected to the other dancers.\" The dance was \"a kind of moving meditation\" for her.\n\nChristine Ottery, writing in \"The Guardian\" in 2011, states that \"ecstatic dancing has an image problem\" and \"encompasses everything from large global movements such as 5Rhythms and Biodanza to local drum'n'dance meet-ups\". She suggests that readers may \"find 5 Rhythms a good place to start\", and does so herself: \"Nervously, I stretch and warm my muscles. As the rhythms take off, I shake off my shyness.\" She dances in different ways, alone or with partners. \"My body is expressing itself - it's utter abandonment and a complete high.\"\n\nJed Lipinski, writing in \"The New York Times\" in 2010, notes that 5Rhythms is suitable for all ages, unlike some other forms of dance and movement. He observes that \"At a recent 5Rhythms class ... in Manhattan, more than 100 people were gleefully writhing and leaping to tribal drumming courtesy of Ms. Roth's husband, Robert Ansell... Dancers occasionally released guttural howls, as if exorcising the demons of the workweek.\"\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" writes of 5Rhythms in 2007 that \"I love it precisely because it isn't based on learned steps. Instead, the idea is to find your own dance by moving your body in whatever way you fancy. For those of us keen to improve our fitness, it can also be an energetic aerobic workout.\"\n\nAcademics working in mental health and other fields are starting to carry out research about the 5Rhythms. The Mental Health Foundation, a UK charity published the 'Dancing for Living Report' describing a group of women's experience of 5Rhythms dance and the effects on their emotional wellbeing. The 5Rhythms have been the subject of a number of PhD theses.\n\nThe British TV sitcom \"Peep Show\" featured an episode (\"Dance Class\") where the two principal male characters attend a 'Rainbow Rhythms' class which invites its participants to interpretatively dance 'colours', featuring guidance and a closing circle reminiscent of a 5Rhythms class.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11959486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11959486", "title": "ANobii", "text": "ANobii\n\naNobii is a social networking site aimed at readers. Its website was launched in 2006 by . It was acquired by the publisher Mondadori in 2014 from a venture backed by HMV Group, HarperCollins, Penguin and Random House. \n\nThe service allows individuals to catalogue their books and rate, review and discuss them with other readers. The service is available via the aNobii website and iPhone and Android apps. The apps allow individuals to barcode scan books and read both community and expert reviews.\n\naNobii has readers in over 20 countries, but is most popular in Italy. \n\nOn 2 March 2011 it was announced that in 2010 aNobii had been acquired by a UK startup led by HMV Group and supported by HarperCollins, Penguin and The Random House Group and that the company is working on a new version of the website with possibility to buy books and most of all ebooks.\n\nOn 12 June 2012 it was announced that HMV had sold its interest to UK supermarket company Sainsbury's for £1.\n\nIn January 2013, it was announced that beta.anobii.com will be known as eBooks by Sainsbury's from 20 February 2013. Anobii.com will continue to exist as a social network for book lovers.\n\nIn January 2014, aNobii Ltd was sold to the Italian publisher Arnoldo Mondadori Editore.\n\nThe word “aNobii” comes from \"Anobium Punctatum\", the Latin name for the most common bookworm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7788714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7788714", "title": "Abadeh rug", "text": "Abadeh rug\n\nAn Abaadeh carpet is a type of Persian carpet made in the town of Abadeh in Iran.\n\nThe rugs are named after the city of Abadeh, halfway between Isfahan and Shiraz in Iran, where these rugs are made. They were traditionally sold to the Qashqai people in their north/south seasonal migration.\n\nThe rugs often feature a large diamond pattern in the centre, with smaller ones in the corners also.\n"}
{"id": "29564581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29564581", "title": "Aircraft design process", "text": "Aircraft design process\n\nThe aircraft design process is the engineering design process by which aircraft are designed. These depend on many factors such as customer and manufacturer demand, safety protocols, physical and economic constraints etc. For some types of aircraft the design process is regulated by national airworthiness authorities. This article deals with powered aircraft such as airplanes and helicopter designs.\n\nAircraft design is a compromise between many competing factors and constraints and accounts for existing designs and market requirements to produce the best aircraft.\n\nThe design process starts with the aircraft's intended purpose. Commercial airliners are designed for carrying a passenger or cargo payload, long range and greater fuel efficiency where as fighter jets are designed to perform high speed maneuvers and provide close support to ground troops. Some aircraft have specific missions, for instance, amphibious airplanes have a unique design that allows them to operate from both land and water, some fighters, like the Harrier Jump Jet, have VTOL (Vertical Take-off and Landing) ability, helicopters have the ability to hover over an area for a period of time.\n\nThe purpose may be to fit a specific requirement, e.g. as in the historical case of a British Air Ministry specification, or fill a perceived \"gap in the market\"; that is, a class or design of aircraft which does not yet exist, but for which there would be significant demand.\n\nAnother important factor that influences the design of the aircraft are the regulations put forth by national airworthiness authorities.\n\nAirports may also impose limits on aircraft, for instance, the maximum wingspan allowed for a conventional aircraft is 80 m to prevent collisions between aircraft while taxiing.\n\nBudget limitations, market requirements and competition set constraints on the design process and comprise the non-technical influences on aircraft design along with environmental factors. Competition leads to companies striving for better efficiency in the design without compromising performance and incorporating new techniques and technology.\n\nIn the 1950s and ’60s, unattainable project goals were regularly set, but then abandoned, whereas today troubled programs like the Boeing 787 and the Lockheed Martin F-35 have proven far more costly and complex to develop than expected.\nMore advanced and integrated design tools have been developed. Model-based systems engineering predicts potentially problematic interactions, while computational analysis and optimization allows designers to explore more options early in the process. Increasing automation in engineering and manufacturing allows faster and cheaper develoment.\nTechnology advances from materials to manufacturing enable more complex design variations like multifunction parts. Once impossible to design or construct, these can now be 3D printed, but they have yet to prove their utility in applications like the Northrop Grumman B-21 or the re-engined A320neo and 737 MAX. Airbus and Boeing also recognize the economic limits, that the next airliner generation cannot cost more than the previous ones did.\n\nAn increase in the number of aircraft also means greater carbon emissions. Environmental scientists have voiced concern over the main kinds of pollution associated with aircraft, mainly noise and emissions. Aircraft engines have been historically notorious for creating noise pollution and the expansion of airways over already congested and polluted cities have drawn heavy criticism, making it necessary to have environmental policies for aircraft noise. Noise also arises from the airframe, where the airflow directions are changed. Improved noise regulations have forced designers to create quieter engines and airframes. Emissions from aircraft include particulates, carbon dioxide (CO), Sulfur dioxide(SO), Carbon monoxide (CO), various oxides of nitrates and unburnt hydrocarbons. To combat the pollution, ICAO set recommendations in 1981 to control aircraft emissions. Newer, environmentally friendly fuels have been developed and the use of recyclable materials in manufacturing have helped reduce the ecological impact due to aircraft. Environmental limitations also affect airfield compatibility. Airports around the world have been built to suit the topography of the particular region. Space limitations, pavement design, runway end safety areas and the unique location of airport are some of the airport factors that influence aircraft design. However changes in aircraft design also influence airfield design as well, for instance, the recent introduction of new large aircraft (NLAs) such as the superjumbo Airbus A380, have led to airports worldwide redesigning their facilities to accommodate its large size and service requirements.\n\nThe high speeds, fuel tanks, atmospheric conditions at cruise altitudes, natural hazards (thunderstorms, hail and bird strikes) and human error are some of the many hazards that pose a threat to air travel.\n\nAirworthiness is the standard by which aircraft are determined fit to fly. The responsibility for airworthiness lies with national aviation regulatory bodies, manufacturers, as well as owners and operators.\n\nThe International Civil Aviation Organization sets international standards and recommended practices for national authorities to base their regulations on The national regulatory authorities set standards for airworthiness, issue certificates to manufacturers and operators and the standards of personnel training. Every country has its own regulatory body such as the Federal Aviation Authority in USA, DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) in India, etc.\n\nThe aircraft manufacturer makes sure that the aircraft meets existing design standards, defines the operating limitations and maintenance schedules and provides support and maintenance throughout the operational life of the aircraft. The aviation operators include the passenger and cargo airliners, air forces and owners of private aircraft. They agree to comply with the regulations set by the regulatory bodies, understand the limitations of the aircraft as specified by the manufacturer, report defects and assist the manufacturers in keeping up the airworthiness standards.\n\nMost of the design criticisms these days are built on crashworthiness. Even with the greatest attention to airworthiness, accidents still occur. Crashworthiness is the qualitative evaluation of how aircraft survive an accident. The main objective is to protect the passengers or valuable cargo from the damage caused by an accident. In the case of airliners the stressed skin of the pressurized fuselage provides this feature, but in the event of a nose or tail impact, large bending moments build all the way through the fuselage, causing fractures in the shell, causing the fuselage to break up into smaller sections. So the passenger aircraft are designed in such a way that seating arrangements are away from areas likely to be intruded in an accident, such as near a propeller, engine nacelle undercarriage etc. The interior of the cabin is also fitted with safety features such as oxygen masks that drop down in the event of loss of cabin pressure, lockable luggage compartments, safety belts, lifejackets, emergency doors and luminous floor strips. Aircraft are sometimes designed with emergency water landing in mind, for instance the Airbus A330 has a 'ditching' switch that closes valves and openings beneath the aircraft slowing the ingress of water.\n\nAircraft designers normally rough-out the initial design with consideration of all the constraints on their design. Historically design teams used to be small, usually headed by a Chief Designer who knows all the design requirements and objectives and coordinated the team accordingly. As time progressed, the complexity of military and airline aircraft also grew. Modern military and airline design projects are of such a large scale that every design aspect is tackled by different teams and then brought together. In general aviation a large number of light aircraft are designed and built by amateur hobbyists and enthusiasts.\n\nIn the early years of aircraft design, designers generally used analytical theory to do the various engineering calculations that go into the design process along with a lot of experimentation. These calculations were labour-intensive and time-consuming. In the 1940s, several engineers started looking for ways to automate and simplify the calculation process and many relations and semi-empirical formulas were developed. Even after simplification, the calculations continued to be extensive. With the invention of the computer, engineers realized that a majority of the calculations could be automated, but the lack of design visualization and the huge amount of experimentation involved kept the field of aircraft design stagnant. With the rise of programming languages, engineers could now write programs that were tailored to design an aircraft. Originally this was done with mainframe computers and used low-level programming languages that required the user to be fluent in the language and know the architecture of the computer. With the introduction of personal computers, design programs began employing a more user-friendly approach.\n\nThe main aspects of aircraft design are:\n\nAll aircraft designs involve compromises of these factors to achieve the design mission.\n\nThe wing of a fixed-wing aircraft provides the lift necessary for flight. Wing geometry affects every aspect of an aircraft’s flight. The wing area will usually be dictated by the desired stalling speed but the overall shape of the planform and other detail aspects may be influenced by wing layout factors. The wing can be mounted to the fuselage in high, low and middle positions. The wing design depends on many parameters such as selection of aspect ratio, taper ratio, sweepback angle, thickness ratio, section profile, washout and dihedral. The cross-sectional shape of the wing is its airfoil. The construction of the wing starts with the rib which defines the airfoil shape. Ribs can be made of wood, metal, plastic or even composites.\n\nThe wing must be designed and tested to ensure it can withstand the maximum loads imposed by maneuvering, and by atmospheric gusts.\n\nThe fuselage is the part of the aircraft that contains the cockpit, passenger cabin or cargo hold.\n\nAircraft propulsion may be achieved by specially designed aircraft engines, adapted auto, motorcycle or snowmobile engines, electric engines or even human muscle power. The main parameters of engine design are:\n\nThe thrust provided by the engine must balance the drag at cruise speed and be greater than the drag to allow acceleration. The engine requirement varies with the type of aircraft. For instance, commercial airliners spend more time in cruise speed and need more engine efficiency. High-performance fighter jets need very high acceleration and therefore have very high thrust requirements.\n\nThe weight of the aircraft is the common factor that links all aspects of aircraft design such as aerodynamics, structure, and propulsion, all together. An aircraft's weight is derived from various factors such as empty weight, payload, useful load, etc. The various weights are used to then calculate the center of mass of the entire aircraft. The center of mass must fit within the established limits set by the manufacturer.\n\nThe aircraft structure focuses not only on strength, stiffness, durability (fatigue), fracture toughness, stability, but also on fail-safety, corrosion resistance, maintainability and ease of manufacturing. The structure must be able to withstand the stresses caused by cabin pressurization, if fitted, turbulence and engine or rotor vibrations.\n\nThe design of any aircraft starts out in three phases\n\nThe first design step, involves sketching a variety of possible aircraft configurations that meet the required design specifications. By drawing a set of configurations, designers seek to reach the design configuration that satisfactorily meets all requirements as well as go hand in hand with factors such as aerodynamics, propulsion, flight performance, structural and control systems. This is called design optimization. Fundamental aspects such as fuselage shape, wing configuration and location, engine size and type are all determined at this stage. Constraints to design like those mentioned above are all taken into account at this stage as well. The final product is a conceptual layout of the aircraft configuration on paper or computer screen, to be reviewed by engineers and other designers.\n\nThe design configuration arrived at in the conceptual design phase is then tweaked and remodeled to fit into the design parameters. In this phase, wind tunnel testing and computational fluid dynamic calculations of the flow field around the aircraft are done. Major structural and control analysis is also carried out in this phase. Aerodynamic flaws and structural instabilities if any are corrected and the final design is drawn and finalized. Then after the finalization of the design lies the key decision with the manufacturer or individual designing it whether to actually go ahead with the production of the aircraft. At this point several designs, though perfectly capable of flight and performance, might have been opted out of production due to their being economically nonviable.\n\nThis phase simply deals with the fabrication aspect of the aircraft to be manufactured. It determines the number, design and location of ribs, spars, sections and other structural elements. All aerodynamic, structural, propulsion, control and performance aspects have already been covered in the preliminary design phase and only the manufacturing remains. Flight simulators for aircraft are also developed at this stage.\n\nAn existing aircraft program can be developed for performance and economy gains by stretching the fuselage, increasing the MTOW, enhancing the aerodynamics, installing new engines, new wings or new avionics.\nFor a 9,100 nmi long range at Mach 0.8/FL360, a 10% lower TSFC saves 13% of fuel, a 10% L/D increase saves 12%, a 10% lower OEW saves 6% and all combined saves 28%.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2836732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2836732", "title": "Anita Stewart", "text": "Anita Stewart\n\nAnita Stewart (February 7, 1895 – May 4, 1961) was an American actress and film producer of the early silent film era.\n\nStewart was born in Brooklyn, New York as Anna Marie Stewart on February 7, 1895. Her two siblings, George and Lucille Lee, also acted in films.\n\nStewart began her acting career in 1911 while still attending Erasmus Hall High School in extra and bit parts for the Vitagraph film studios at their New York City location.\n\nStewart was one of the earliest film actresses to achieve public recognition in the nascent medium of motion pictures and achieved a great deal of acclaim early in her acting career. Among her earlier popular roles were 1911's enormous box office hit adaptation of \"A Tale of Two Cities\", directed by William J.Humphrey, and having an all-star cast including Maurice Costello, Florence Turner, Norma Talmadge and John Bunny, as well as roles in 1913's \"The Forgotten Latchkey\" and \"The White Feather\".\n\nIn 1917, she married Rudolph Cameron and became the sister-in-law of film director and actor Ralph Ince, who began giving the young actress more prominent roles in films for Vitagraph. Throughout the 1910s and into the early 1920s, Anita Stewart was one of the silent screen's most popular actresses and was often paired in romantic roles with real-life husband, actor Rudolph Cameron. Stewart was also featured opposite such screen legends as Mae Busch and Barbara La Marr. \nHer two siblings, George and Lucille Lee, also acted in films.\n\nStewart left her lucrative Vitagraph Studios career in 1918 to accept a contract with fledgling film mogul Louis B. Mayer by the terms of which she would head her own production company at the Mayer studios in Los Angeles. It was alleged that Stewart was recovering from an illness in a Los Angeles hospital when Mayer convinced her to leave Vitagraph for an undisclosed but exorbitant sum of money. Between 1918 and 1919 Stewart produced seven moderately successful vehicles, starring in all of them. Throughout the 1920s, Stewart continue to be featured in prominent roles in silent films.\n\nFollowing Stewart's divorce from Cameron in 1928, Stewart married George Peabody Converse the following year. Like many of her silent film contemporaries, Stewart found the transition to sound film extremely difficult. After making just one musical short in 1932, \"The Hollywood Handicap\", Stewart retired from the screen.\n\nStewart authored the murder mystery novel \"The Devil's Toy\", which was published in New York in 1935 by E. P. Dutton. Though the book's dust jacket traded on the author's Hollywood connection, the plot concerned the killing of a stage actor and was set in San Francisco.\n\nOn May 4, 1961, Stewart died of a heart attack in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nFor her contribution to motion picture industry as an actress, Anita Stewart was given a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6724 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n"}
{"id": "371810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371810", "title": "Antonin Mercié", "text": "Antonin Mercié\n\nMarius Jean Antonin Mercié (Toulouse October 30, 1845December 12, 1916 Paris), was a French sculptor and painter.\n\nMercié entered the École des Beaux-Arts, Paris, and studied under Alexandre Falguière and François Jouffroy, and in 1868 gained the Grand Prix de Rome at the age of 23. His first great popular successes were the \"David\" and \"Gloria Victis\", which was shown and received the Medal of Honour of the Paris Salon. The bronze was subsequently placed in the Square Montholon.\n\nThe bronze \"David\" was one of his most popular works. The Biblical hero is depicted naked with the head of Goliath at his feet like Donatello's David, but with a turbanned head and sheathing his long sword. Numerous reproductions exist, most of which incorporate a loincloth that covers David's genitalia but not his buttocks. The lifesize original is in the Musée d'Orsay.\n\nMercié was appointed Professor of Drawing and Sculpture at the École des Beaux-Arts, and was elected a member of the Académie française in 1891, after being awarded the biennial prize of the Institute of 800 in 1887. He was subsequently elected to grand officier of the Légion d'honneur, and in 1913 became the president of the \"Société des artistes français\". Marie-Antoinette Demagnez was among his many students at the École des Beaux-Arts. He died in Paris on December 12, 1916.\n\n\"The Genius of the Arts\" (1877), a relief, is in the Tuileries, in substitution for Antoine-Louis Barye's Napoleon III. A similar work for the tomb of Jules Michelet (1879; designed with architect Jean-Louis Pascal) is in Père Lachaise Cemetery, and in the same year Mercié produced the statue of \"Arago\" with accompanying reliefs, now erected at Perpignan.\n\nIn 1882 he repeated his great patriotic success of 1874 with a group \"Quand Même!\", replicas of which have been set up at Belfort and in the garden of the Tuileries. \"Le Souvenir\" (1885), a marble statue for the tomb of Mme Charles Ferry, is one of his most beautiful works. \"Regret\", for the tomb of Alexandre Cabanel, was produced in 1892, along with \"William Tell\", subsequently at Lausanne.\n\nMercié also designed the monuments to Jean-Louis-Ernest Meissonier (1895), erected in the Jardin de l'Infante in the Louvre, and Louis Faidherbe (1896) at Lille, a statue of Adolphe Thiers set up at St Germain-en-Laye, the monument to Paul Baudry at Père Lachaise, and that of Louis-Philippe and Queen Amélie for their tomb at Dreux. His stone group of \"Justice\" is at the Hôtel de Ville, Paris.\n\nNumerous other statues, portrait busts, and medallions came from the sculptor's hand, which gained him a medal of honor at the Paris Exhibition (1878) and the grand prix at that of 1889. Among the paintings exhibited by the artist are a Venus, to which was awarded a medal in 1883, \"Leda\" (1884), and \"Michelangelo studying Anatomy\" (1885), his most dramatic work in this medium.\n\nMercié is known in America primarily for three monuments: the 1890 Robert E. Lee equestrian bronze on Monument Avenue in Richmond, Virginia (the Robert E. Lee Monument); his 1891 collaboration with former teacher Alexandre Falguière on the statue of the Marquis de Lafayette in Lafayette Square, Washington, D.C., and for the 1911 Francis Scott Key Monument, Baltimore, Maryland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31119539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31119539", "title": "Art of Mesopotamia", "text": "Art of Mesopotamia\n\nThe art of Mesopotamia has survived in the archaeological record from early hunter-gatherer societies (10th millennium BC) on to the Bronze Age cultures of the Sumerian, Akkadian, Babylonian and Assyrian empires. These empires were later replaced in the Iron Age by the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian empires. Widely considered to be the cradle of civilization, Mesopotamia brought significant cultural developments, including the oldest examples of writing. \nThe art of Mesopotamia rivalled that of Ancient Egypt as the most grand, sophisticated and elaborate in western Eurasia from the 4th millennium BC until the Persian Achaemenid Empire conquered the region in the 6th century BC. The main emphasis was on various, very durable, forms of sculpture in stone and clay; little painting has survived, but what has suggests that, with some exceptions, painting was mainly used for geometrical and plant-based decorative schemes, though most sculptures were also painted. Cylinder seals have survived in large numbers, many including complex and detailed scenes despite their small size. \n\nMesopotamian art survives in a number of forms: cylinder seals, relatively small figures in the round, and reliefs of various sizes, including cheap plaques of moulded pottery for the home, some religious and some apparently not. Favourite subjects include deities, alone or with worshippers, and animals in several types of scenes: repeated in rows, single, fighting each other or a human, confronted animals by themselves or flanking a human or god in the Master of Animals motif, or a Tree of Life.\n\nStone stelae, votive offerings, or ones probably commemorating victories and showing feasts, are also found from temples, which unlike more official ones lack inscriptions that would explain them; the fragmentary Stele of the Vultures is an early example of the inscribed type, and the Assyrian Black Obelisk of Shalmaneser III a large and well preserved late one.\n\nThe Protoliterate or Uruk period, named after the city of Uruk in southern Mesopotamia, (ca. 4000 to 3100 BC) existed from the protohistoric Chalcolithic to Early Bronze Age period, following the Ubaid period and succeeded by the Jemdet Nasr period generally dated to 3100–2900 BC. It saw the emergence of urban life in Mesopotamia, and the beginnings of Sumerian civilization, and also the first \"great creative age\" of Mesopotamian art. Slightly earlier, the northern city of Tell Brak, today in Syria, also saw urbanization, and the development of a temple with regional significance. This is called the Eye Temple after the many \"eye idols\", in fact votive offerings, found there, a type distinctive to this site. The stone Tell Brak Head, 7 inches high, shows a simplified face; similar heads are in gypsum. These were evidently fitted to bodies that have not survived, probably of wood. Like temples further south, the Eye Temple was decorated with cone mosaics made up of clay cylinders some four inches long, differently coloured to create simple patterns.\n\nSignificant works from the southern cities in Sumer proper are the Warka Vase and Uruk Trough, with complex multi-figured scenes of humans and animals, and the Mask of Warka. This is a more realistic head than the Tell Brak examples, like them made to top a wooden body; what survives of this is only the basic framework, to which coloured inlays, gold leaf hair, paint and jewellery were added. The Guennol Lioness is an exceptionally powerful small figurine of a lion-headed monster, perhaps from the start of the next period.\n\nThere are a number of stone or alabaster vessels carved in deep relief, and stone friezes of animals, both designed for temples, where the vessels held offerings. Cylinder seals are already complex and very finely executed and, as later, seem to have been an influence on larger works. Animals shown are often representations of the gods, another continuing feature of Mesopotamian art. The end of the period, despite being a time of considerable economic expansion, saw a decline in the quality of art, perhaps as demand outstripped the supply of artists.\n\nThe Early Dynastic Period is generally dated to 2900–2350 BC. While continuing many earlier trends, its art is marked by an emphasis on figures of worshippers and priests making offerings, and social scenes of worship, war and court life. Copper becomes a significant medium for sculpture, probably despite most works having later being recycled for their metal. Few if any copper sculptures are as large as the Tell al-'Ubaid Lintel, which is 2.59 metres wide and 1.07 metres high. \nMany masterpieces have also been found at the Royal Cemetery at Ur (c. 2650 BC), including the two figures of a \"Ram in a Thicket\", the \"Copper Bull\" and a bull's head on one of the Lyres of Ur. The so-called Standard of Ur, actually an inlaid box or set of panels of uncertain function, is finely inlaid with partly figurative designs.\n\nA group of 12 temple statues known as the Tell Asmar Hoard, now split up, show gods, priests and donor worshippers at different sizes, but all in the same highly simplified style. All have greatly enlarged inlaid eyes, but the tallest figure, the main cult image depicting the local god, has enormous eyes that give it a \"fierce power\". Later in the period this geometric style was replaced by a strongly contrasting one giving \"a detailed rendering of the physical peculiarities of the subject\"; \"Instead of sharply contrasting, clearly articulated masses, we see fluid transitions and infinitely modulated surfaces\".\n\nThe Akkadian Empire was the first to control not only all Mesopotamia, but other territories in the Levant, from about 2271 to 2154 BC. The Akkadians were not Sumerian, and spoke a Semitic language. In art there was a great emphasis on the kings of the dynasty, alongside much that continued earlier Sumerian art. In large works and small ones such as seals, the degree of realism was considerably increased, but the seals show a \"grim world of cruel conflict, of danger and uncertainty, a world in which man is subjected without appeal to the incomprehensible acts of distant and fearful divinities who he must serve but cannot love. This sombre mood ... remained characteristic of Mesopotamian art...\"\n\nKing Naram-Sin's famous Victory Stele depicts him as a god-king (symbolized by his horned helmet) climbing a mountain above his soldiers, and his enemies, the defeated Lullubi. The strongest indication that the stele is depicting a campaign to Cilicia is evidenced by the booty—a metal vessel—carried by one of Naram-Sin's soldiers. Completely foreign to Mesopotamia, the vessel closely resembles Anatolian crafts from Troy and Cilicia. These vessels—ceramic or metal—were produced during the Early Bronze III Period, which is around the time of Naram-Sin's rule. Although the stele was broken off at the top when it was stolen and carried off by the Elamite forces of Shutruk-Nakhunte, it still strikingly reveals the pride, glory, and divinity of Naram-Sin. The application of hierarchical scale is used to emphasize Naram-Sin’s relative size to the mountain before him and obvious enlarged stature compared to the subjects below him, differentiating class status between Naram-Sin, Akkadian soldiers, and Lullabi enemies, which also reiterates the warrior as the a mighty protagonist. However the more traditional horizontal frames are visible on smaller broken pieces. The stele seems to break from traditional Akkadian art style of layered registers by using successive diagonal tiers in step-like processions of Naram-Sin's soldiers up the hillside to communicate the story to viewers. It is six feet and seven inches tall, and made from pink sandstone. From the same reign, the bare legs and lower torso of the copper Bassetki Statue show an unprecedented level of realism, as does the imposing bronze head of a bearded ruler (Louvre).\n\nAmong other artworks from the Akkadian Period is “Head of a Man,” a life-size, bronze bust found in Nineveh or modern day Ninua, Iraq. Experts speculate that the artwork reflects a generalized person rather than a specific individual and is suspected to represent Sargon himself because the piece is thought to date to the time of his rule. The intricate curling and patterning of the beard and the complex hairstyle suggests royalty, power, and wealth from an ideal male in society. Aside from its aesthetic traits, this piece is spectacular because it is the earliest hollow-cast sculpture item known to use the lost-wax casting process. There is deliberate damage on the left side of the face and eye, indicating that the bust was intentionally slashed at a later period to demonstrate political iconoclasm. By selectively disfiguring the head, the offender uses symbolism to exhibit defeat and humiliation from a ruler once mightily portrayed. From one perspective, the gouged eyes and butched ears might have served to literally depict the individual’s physical state from an actual mutilation used as political punishment. Although it is unclear of who did this or where it occurred, experts speculate that this happened during one of the chaotic revolts during the Akkadian period.\n\nThe political history of this period of nearly 1300 years is complicated, including the Neo-Sumerian art of the Third Dynasty of Ur, the Isin-Larsa Period and First Babylonian Dynasty or Old Babylonian period, an interlude under the rule of the Kassites, and other periods. It ended with the decisive advent of the Neo-Assyrian Empire under Adad-nirari II, whose reign began in 911 BC. Life was often unstable, and non-Sumerian invasions a recurring theme. During the period Babylon became a great city, which was often the seat of the dominant power. The period was not one of great artistic development, these invaders failing to bring new artistic impetus, and much religious art was rather self-consciously conservative, perhaps in a deliberate assertion of Sumerian values. The quality of execution is often lower than in preceding and later periods. \n\nGudea, ruler of Lagash (reign ca. 2144 to 2124 BC), was a great patron of new temples early in the period, and an unprecedented 26 statues of Gudea, mostly rather small, have survived from temples, beautifully executed, mostly in \"costly and very hard diorite\" stone. These exude a confident serenity. The northern Royal Palace of Mari produced a number of important objects from before about 1800 BC, including the Statue of Iddi-Ilum, and the most extensive remains of Mesopotamian palace frescos. \n\nThe Burney Relief is an unusual, elaborate, and relatively large (20 x 15 inches) terracotta plaque of a naked winged goddess with the feet of a bird of prey, and attendant owls and lions. It comes from the 18th or 19th centuries BC, and may also be moulded. Similar pieces, small statues or reliefs of deities, were made for altars in homes or small wayside shrines, and small moulded terracotta ones were probably available as souvenirs from temples.\n\nThis was generally not a period of the highest quality for cylinder seal images; at different times the inscription took prominence over the image, and the variety of scenes shown reduced, with the \"presentation scene\" of a king before a god, or an official before a seated king, becoming the norm at times. Especially from the Kassite period several stone kudurru stelae survive, mostly taken up with inscriptions recording grants of land, boundary lines, and other official records, but often with figures and emblems of the gods or the king as well; a land grant by Meli-Shipak II is an example.\n\nAn Assyrian artistic style distinct from that of Babylonian art, which was the dominant contemporary art in Mesopotamia, began to emerge c. 1500 BC, well before their empire included Sumer, and lasted until the fall of Nineveh in 612 BC.\nThe conquest of the whole of Mesopotamia and much surrounding territory by the Neo-Assyrian Empire created a larger and wealthier state than the region had known before, and very grandiose art in palaces and public places, no doubt partly intended to match the splendour of the art of the neighbouring Egyptian empire. From around 879 BC the Assyrians developed a style of extremely large schemes of very finely detailed narrative low reliefs in stone or gypsum alabaster, originally painted, for palaces. The precisely delineated reliefs concern royal affairs, chiefly hunting and war making. Predominance is given to animal forms, particularly horses and lions, which are magnificently represented in great detail. \n\nHuman figures are comparatively rigid and static but are also minutely detailed, as in triumphal scenes of sieges, battles, and individual combat. Among the best known Assyrian reliefs are the famous \"Lion Hunt of Ashurbanipal\" scenes in alabaster, and the Lachish reliefs showing a war campaign in Palestine, both of which are of the 7th century BC, from Nineveh and now in the British Museum. Reliefs were also carved into rock faces, as at Shikaft-e Gulgul, a style which the Persians continued.\n\nThe Assyrians produced relatively little sculpture in the round, with the partial exception of colossal human-headed \"lamassu\" guardian figures, with the bodies of lions or bulls, which are sculpted in high relief on two sides of a rectangular block, with the heads effectively in the round (and often also five legs, so that both views seem complete). These marked fortified royal gateways, an architectural form common throughout Asia Minor. The Assyrian form of the winged genie, winged spirits with bearded human heads seen in reliefs, influenced Ancient Greek art, which in its \"orientalizing period\" added various winged mythological beasts including the Chimera, griffin and winged horses (Pegasus) and men (Talos).\n\nEven before dominating the region the Assyrians had continued the cylinder seal tradition with designs which are often exceptionally energetic and refined. At Nimrud the carved Nimrud ivories and bronze bowls were found that are decorated in the Assyrian style but were produced in several parts of the Near East including many by Phoenician and Aramaean artisans.\n\nThe famous Ishtar Gate, part of which is now reconstructed in the Pergamon Museum in Berlin, was the main entrance into Babylon, built in about 575 BC by Nebuchadnezzar II, the king of the Neo-Babylonian who exiled the Jews; the empire lasted from 626 BC to 539 BC. The walls surrounding the entrance way are decorated with rows of large relief animals in glazed brick, which has therefore retained its colours. Lions, dragons and bulls are represented. The gate was part of a much larger scheme for a processional way into the city, from which there are sections in many other museums. Large wooden gates throughout the period were strengthened and decorated with large horizontal metal bands, often decorated with reliefs, several of which have survived, such as the various Balawat Gates.\n\nOther traditional types of art continued to be produced, and the Neo-Babylonians were very keen to stress their ancient heritage. Many sophisticated and finely carved seals survive. After Mesopotamia fell to the Persian Achaemenid Empire, which had much simpler artistic traditions, Mesopotamian art was, with Ancient Greek art, the main influence on the cosmopolitan Achaemenid style that emerged, and many ancient elements were retained in the area even in the Hellenistic art that succeeded the conquest of the region by Alexander the Great.\n\nBy some margin, the most important collections are those of (in no particular order) the Louvre Museum, the British Museum and the National Museum of Iraq. The last was extensively looted after the breakdown of law and order following the 2003 invasion of Iraq, but the most important objects have largely been recovered. Several other museums have good collections, especially of the very numerous cylinder seals. Syrian museums have important collections from sites in modern Syria. The reconstructed Ishtar Gate in Berlin is arguably the most spectacular single work in a museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46294636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46294636", "title": "Bliss point (food)", "text": "Bliss point (food)\n\nIn the formulation of food products, the bliss point is the amount of an ingredient such as salt, sugar, or fat which optimizes tastiness. Pioneering work on the bliss point was carried out by American market researcher and psychophysicist Howard Moskowitz, known for his successful work in product creation and optimization for foods ranging from spaghetti sauce to soft drinks. Moskowitz describes the bliss point as \"that sensory profile where you like food the most.\n\nThe bliss point for salt, sugar, or fat is a range within which perception is that there is neither too much nor too little, but the \"just right\" amount of saltiness, sweetness, or richness. The human body has evolved to favor foods delivering these tastes: the brain responds with a \"reward\" in the form of a jolt of endorphins, remembers what we did to get that reward, and makes us want to do it again, an effect run by dopamine, the neurotransmitter. Combinations of sugar, fat, and salt act synergistically, and are more rewarding than any one alone. In food product optimization, the goal is to include two or three of these nutrients at their bliss point.\n\n"}
{"id": "24312436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24312436", "title": "Copywriting agency", "text": "Copywriting agency\n\nA copywriting agency is a business that provides writing and editing services to businesses and other organizations. Like individual copywriters, copywriting agencies may offer writing on a for-hire or per-project basis.\n\nIn addition, because copywriting agencies often offer the services of many staff members, they may offer a broader range of services than can individuals. These services include but not limited to writing, editing, content or marketing consulting, branding, naming, scriptwriting, speechwriting, information architecture, print and web design and layout, software development, social networking consulting and implementation, and project management. An agency may also partner with other businesses—for example, design or advertising firms—or with in-house client teams. Depending on the project, agency staff may work onsite with the client, from the agency offices, or virtually from any location.\n\nCopywriting agencies may be designed on an employee model, with full- or part-time employees providing services to clients. Others may work with a regular team of trusted contractors, while still others function more like middlemen, connecting clients and editorial freelancers and taking a cut of the proceeds from each project.\n\nBusiness and nonprofit clients often hire copywriting agencies for larger projects that fall outside of existing skills and time or staffing needs, or for projects that require expertise in a specific discipline or area of knowledge. Many agencies specialize in one or more industries—doing work for clients, for example, in publishing, finance, technology, biotechnology, medicine, agriculture, the environment, engineering, government, the military, education, the arts, or the nonprofit world. Others employ writers, editors, etc. with varying specialties, so as to work for a variety of clients.\n\nAllowing for overall economic trends, job prospects for both individual copywriters and copywriting agencies expanded during the 1990s and 2000s, for reasons including an increased need for production and editing of online contentand an increase in business outsourcing and freelancing. As of 2012, employment for freelance writers is expected to continue to grow.\n\nApostrophe Copywriters"}
{"id": "52998967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52998967", "title": "Cultural Center of the Philippines Complex", "text": "Cultural Center of the Philippines Complex\n\nThe Cultural Center of the Philippines Complex, also known as CCP Complex, is an owned by The Cultural Center of the Philippines (CCP) located along Roxas Boulevard in Metro Manila, Philippines, most of which fall under the jurisdiction of the city of Pasay. \n\nDevelopment of the complex was stalled until 2000, when the Philippine Supreme Court ruled with finality the CCP's ownership of some of prime real estate in the complex. The property is of land, with the rest being occupied by the Government Service Insurance System, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, and the Privatization and Management Office. It is part of Bay City (formerly Boulevard 2000) that spans of reclaimed land along Manila Bay which is occupied by the SM Central Business Park, Philippine National Bank's Financial Center Area, and PAGCOR's Entertainment City, among others. \n\nThe complex is bounded by the Manila Bay to the north and west, the Philippine Navy headquarters to the northeast, Roxas Boulevard to the east, and Jose Diokno Boulevard to the south. It is divided into two zones: the Art Zone, and the Commercial and Entertainment Zone. It features several brutalist structures designed in the 1960s and 1970s by Leandro Locsin, such as the Tanghalang Pambansa, the Philippine International Convention Center, and the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila. Other locators in the complex include the Coconut Palace, the Manila Film Center and Star City amusement park.\n\nThe Tanghalang Pambansa () is the flagship venue and principal offices of the Cultural Center of the Philippines. Formally called the Theater of Performing Arts, it houses three major performing arts venues, one theater for film screenings, galleries, a museum and the center's library and archives. \n\n\nDesigned by National Artist for Architecture Leandro Locsin, its design was based and expanded upon the unconstructed Philippine-American Friendship Center. The \"Tangahalan\" is a primary example of the architect's signature style known as the floating volume, a trait can be seen in structures indigenous to the Philippines such as the nipa hut. Being a work of a National Artist, the brutalist structure is qualified to be an important cultural landmark as stipulated in Republic Act No. 10066.\n\nThe Tanghalang Francisco Balagtas, more commonly known by its original name of Folk Arts Theater, is a covered proscenium amphitheater is where popular concerts are usually staged. It has a seating capacity of 8,458 in ten sections. The building was originally built to seat an audience of 10,000 and was commissioned by then First Lady Imelda Marcos in 1974 for the Miss Universe Pageant, which was to be held in Manila. The theater was built in record time of seventy-seven days in time for the pageant and was designed by Leandro V. Locsin.\n\nIt was host to many popular musical acts of the 1980s onwards, including Puerto Rican group Menudo, British pop group 5ive, Janet Jackson, Gary Valenciano and Jay R. The Folk Arts Theater is also used as a site by different religious groups. Day by Day Christian Ministries, a large international religious organization, has leased the area since 2005. They have dedicated the Theatre as \"Bulwagan ng Panginoón\" (). The building is expected to be torn down in the future, subject to the development of the Complex.\n\nThe CCP Complex is also home to the following:\n\nThe Cultural Center of the Philippines was conceived in 1966 when Ferdinand Marcos issued Executive Order No. 60, establishing its board and arranging for his wife Imelda to become chair of its Board of Directors.\n\nThe Philippine-American Culture Foundation provided a Ninety Thousand Peso Grant for its construction and additional funds were taken from the Cultural Development Fund and the Special Fund for Education. It soon became the premier symbol of what would be called Imelda's edifice complex.\n\nA comprehensive master plan for the development of the complex was unveiled in 2003. The plan would divide the CCP Complex into six clusters, each of which will be anchored by a major building. First, the Promenade, which will tentatively be named after Lucresia Reyes-Urtula, will include retail and other mixed-use facilities, as well as dock facilities. The second cluster will be the Arts Sanctuary, which will serve as the complex's cultural core. To be anchored by the Tanghalang Pambansa, it will contain a new performing arts theater, the artists' center, a bandstand, the CCP's Production Design Center, as well as other open areas.\n\nThe third cluster, the Green Zone will contain a mix of museums, parks with commercial and office spaces. Fourth, the Creative Hub cluster, containing spaces for creative industries. Fifth, The Arts Living Room, envisioned to be a high-density, high-rise area that will house condominiums and similar residential projects. The final cluster, the Breezeway, will be located by low-rise, low-density commercial structures with seafront entertainment facilities. Covered walkways, plazas, and bicycle lanes are planned to connect the various buildings and clusters to ensure a pedestrian-centered design. The master plan is envisioned to be completed in four phases, from 2004 to 2014; ₱5 billion will be needed for the plan's first five years, and another ₱8 billion for the plan's latter half. A design contest was held in 2005 to design the first two clusters. Three firms won for their concepts; Syndicated Architects, Manalang-Tayag-Ilano Architects, and JPA Buensalido Design. The concepts of each winner will then be presented to prospective investors and stakeholders for approval.\n\nIn 2011, Leandro V. Locsin Partners, Architects won the design contest for the Artists' Center and Performing Arts Theater, the two buildings that will anchor the Promenade and Arts Sanctuary Clusters respectively. The proposed Artists' Center will house offices and rehearsal spaces for the CCP's resident companies, a black box theater and rooms for educational programs. The winning design is akin to a traditional Badjao village or a mangrove forest, with rooms and pavilions supported by slim pilotis. The proposed Performing Arts Theater will contain a 1,000 seat conventional proscenium theater and a black box that will seat 300-500 people. In contrast with the \"Tanghalang Pambansa's\" massive travertine block, the façade of the new theater will be dominated by its main seating bowl clad in reflective material, evoking a wave rising out of the sea. On January 19, 2016, construction of a new black box theater started with the aim of eventually integrating the new structure into the proposed Performing Arts Theater. Estimated to cost ₱50 million, the new theater will be three to four times bigger than the Tanghalang Huseng Batute, the current black box facility of the CCP.\n"}
{"id": "21017151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21017151", "title": "Diana of Dobson's", "text": "Diana of Dobson's\n\nDiana of Dobson's is a 1908 feminist play by Cicely Hamilton. It was revived at the Orange Tree Theatre at Richmond in 2007, with a cast including Edward Bennett.\n\nDiana is an under-paid worker in an Edwardian department store in Clapham and, when she inherits £300 unexpectedly, she spends it on a holiday at a holiday resort in Switzerland. Pretending to be a wealthy widow, she finds herself pursued by an impecunious ex-guardsman and his predatory aunt.\n"}
{"id": "34341725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34341725", "title": "Dorothy Gordon (Australian actress)", "text": "Dorothy Gordon (Australian actress)\n\nDorothy Hetty Fosbery Jenner , also known as Dorothy Gordon (1 March 1891 – 24 March 1985) was an Australian actress, journalist, and radio broadcaster. She worked as an actress in Hollywood, played the lead in the Australian film \"Hills of Hate\" (1926) and did art direction on \"For the Term of His Natural Life\" (1927). She is best known for her long career as a columnist and radio commentator under the name Andrea. She was a POW in Hong Kong during World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7886", "title": "Drew Barrymore", "text": "Drew Barrymore\n\nDrew Blythe Barrymore (born February 22, 1975) is an American actress, producer, director, author, model and entrepreneur. She is a member of the Barrymore family of actors, and the granddaughter of John Barrymore. She achieved fame as a child actress with her role in \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" (1982). She is the recipient of several accolades, including a Golden Globe, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a BAFTA nomination.\n\nFollowing a highly publicized childhood marked by drug and alcohol abuse, Barrymore released an autobiography, \"Little Girl Lost\", in 1991. She went on to appear in a string of successful films throughout the decade, including \"Poison Ivy\" (1992), \"Boys on the Side\" (1995), \"Mad Love\" (1995), \"Scream\" (1996), \"Ever After\" (1998) and \"The Wedding Singer\" (1998). The latter was her first collaboration with Adam Sandler; they have since starred together in \"50 First Dates\" (2004) and \"Blended\" (2014).\n\nHer other films include \"Never Been Kissed\" (1999), \"Charlie's Angels\" (2000), \"Donnie Darko\" (2001), \"Riding in Cars with Boys\" (2001), \"Confessions of a Dangerous Mind\" (2002), \"Fever Pitch\" (2005), \"Music and Lyrics\" (2007), \"Going the Distance\" (2010), \"Big Miracle\" (2012) and \"Miss You Already\" (2015). Barrymore made her directorial debut with \"Whip It\" (2009), in which she also starred, and received a SAG Award and a Golden Globe for her performance in \"Grey Gardens\" (2009). She currently stars on the Netflix series \"Santa Clarita Diet\".\n\nIn 1995, Barrymore and Nancy Juvonen formed the production company Flower Films. The pair have produced several projects in which Barrymore has starred. In 2013, Barrymore launched a range of cosmetics under the Flower banner, which has grown to include lines in makeup, perfume and eyewear. Her other business ventures include a range of wines and a clothing line. In 2015, she released her second memoir, \"Wildflower\". Barrymore received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2004.\n\nBarrymore was born in Culver City, California, to actor John Barrymore and aspiring actress Jaid (born Ildikó Jaid Makó). Jaid was born in a displaced persons camp in Brannenburg, West Germany, to Hungarian World War II refugees. Barrymore is one of four children with a half-brother, John, who is also an actor. Her parents divorced in 1984, when she was 9 years old.\n\nShe was born into an acting family. All of her paternal great-grandparents—Maurice and Georgie Drew Barrymore, Maurice and Mae Costello ( Altschuk)—as well as her paternal grandparents, John Barrymore and Dolores Costello, were actors, with John being arguably the most acclaimed actor of his generation. Barrymore is a niece of Diana Barrymore, a grandniece of Lionel Barrymore, Ethel Barrymore, and Helene Costello, and a great-great-granddaughter of Irish-born John and English-born Louisa Lane Drew, all of whom were also actors. She was a great-grandniece of Broadway idol John Drew Jr. and silent film actor, writer, and director Sidney Drew.\n\nHer godmothers are actress Sophia Loren and Lee Strasberg's widow, Anna Strasberg; Barrymore described her relationship with the latter as one that \"would become so important to me as a kid because she was so kind and nurturing.\" Her godfather is director Steven Spielberg.\n\nHer first name, Drew, was the maiden name of her paternal great-grandmother, Georgie Drew, and her middle name, Blythe, was the surname of the family first used by her great-grandfather, Maurice Barrymore. Barrymore recounted in her 1991 autobiography, \"Little Girl Lost\", early memories of her abusive father, who left the family when Barrymore was 6 months old. They never had anything resembling a significant relationship and seldom spoke to each other.\n\nBarrymore grew up on Poinsettia Place in West Hollywood until the age of 7, when she moved to Sherman Oaks. In her 2015 memoir, \"Wildflower\", she says she talks \"like a valley girl\" because she grew up in Sherman Oaks. She moved back to West Hollywood upon becoming emancipated at 14. Barrymore attended elementary school at Fountain Day School in West Hollywood and Country School.\n\nIn the wake of her sudden stardom, Barrymore endured a notoriously troubled childhood. She was already a regular at the racy Studio 54 as a young girl, smoking cigarettes at the age of 9, drinking alcohol at age 11, smoking marijuana at age 12, and snorting cocaine at age 13. Her nightlife and constant partying became a popular subject with the media. She was in rehab at the age of 14, and spent 18 months in an institution for the mentally ill. A suicide attempt, also at 14, put her back in rehab, followed by a three-month stay with singer David Crosby (of rock group Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young) and his wife. The stay was precipitated, Crosby said, because she \"needed to be around some people that were committed to sobriety.\" Barrymore later described this period of her life in her autobiography, \"Little Girl Lost.\" After a successful juvenile court petition for emancipation, she moved into her own apartment at the age of 15.\n\nBarrymore's professional career began at 11 months, when she auditioned for a dog food commercial. She was nipped by her canine co-star, to which she merely laughed and was hired for the job. After her film debut with a small role in \"Altered States\" (1980), she played Gertie in \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" (1982), directed by Steven Spielberg. He felt that she had the right imagination for her role after she impressed him with a story that she led a punk rock band. \"E.T.\" is the highest-grossing film of the 1980s and made her one of the most famous child stars of the time. For her work, she won a Young Artist Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nIn the 1984 horror film adaptation of Stephen King's 1980 eponymous novel \"Firestarter,\" Barrymore played a girl with pyrokinesis who becomes the target of a secret government agency known as The Shop. The same year, she played a young girl divorcing her famous parents in \"Irreconcilable Differences\", for which she was nominated for her first Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress. In a review in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", Roger Ebert stated, \"Barrymore is the right actress for this role precisely because she approaches it with such grave calm.\"\n\nShe endured a troubled youth and continued to act intermittently during the decade. She starred in the 1985 anthology horror film \"Cat's Eye,\" written again by Stephen King. The film received positive reviews and Barrymore was nominated for a Young Artist Award for Best Leading Young Actress. She starred alongside Jeff Bridges and Alice Krige in the 1989 romantic comedy \"See You in the Morning.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" criticized \"the fashionable phoniness\" of the film, but positively singled out Barrymore for her performance. After her twelve-day rehab treatment at ASAP, Barrymore starred in \"Far from Home\" (1989), as a teenager who gets stranded with her father in the small town in a remote part of the desert. The film went largely unnoticed by audiences and received negative reviews from critics, who dismissed the sexual portrayal of her role.\n\nIn the early 1990s, her rebelliousness played itself out on screen and in print. Barrymore forged an image as a manipulative teenage seductress, beginning with \"Poison Ivy\" (1992), which was a box office failure, but was popular on video and cable. Her character, Ivy, was ranked at #6 on the list of the top 26 \"bad girls\" of all time by \"Entertainment Weekly\". In 1992, Barrymore posed nude for the cover of the July issue of \"Interview\" magazine with her then-fiancé, actor Jamie Walters, as well as appearing nude in pictures inside the issue.\n\nIn the crime thriller \"Guncrazy\" (1992), Barrymore starred as a teenager who kills her sexually abusive stepfather after he teaches her how to use a gun. \"Variety\" remarked that she \"pulls off impressively\" her character, and Barrymore was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for her performance. In 1993, she took on the role of the younger sister of a murdered ballerina in \"No Place to Hide\" and starred as a writer followed by what is apparently her evil twin in \"Doppelganger\". Both thrillers were panned by critics and failed to find an audience. She appeared in the Western comedy \"Bad Girls\" (1994), which follows four former prostitutes on the run following a justifiable homicide and prison escape. Roger Ebert, in his review for the film, wrote for \"Chicago Sun-Times\": \"What a good idea, to make a Western about four tough women. And what a sad movie.\"\n\nWhen she was 19, she posed nude for the January 1995 issue of \"Playboy\". Steven Spielberg, who is also her godfather, gave her a quilt for her 20th birthday with a note that read, \"Cover yourself up.\" Enclosed were copies of her \"Playboy\" pictures, with the pictures altered by his art department so that she appeared fully clothed. During her appearance on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", Barrymore climbed onto David Letterman's desk and bared her breasts to him, her back to the camera, in celebration of his birthday. She modeled in a series of Guess? jeans ads during this time.\n\nIn \"Boys on the Side\" (1995), Barrymore played a pregnant girl who wants to escape from her abusive boyfriend. The film went little-seen in theaters but was positively received by critics. In the same year, she briefly appeared in Joel Schumacher's film \"Batman Forever\", as Sugar, a moll to Two-Face (Tommy Lee Jones). In 1996, she made a brief but notable appearance in Wes Craven's slasher \"Scream\". Barrymore read the film's script and was interested in being involved, approaching the production team herself to request a role. The producers were quick to take advantage of her unexpected interest, and signed her to play the lead role of Sidney Prescott, but when she was faced with unexpected commitments, she instead played the smaller role of Casey Becker. \"Scream\" was released to critical acclaim and made an impressive US$173 million worldwide. By the mid- and late 1990s, Barrymore re-established her image and continued to be a highly bankable star.\n\nIn \"The Wedding Singer\" (1998), Barrymore played Julia Sullivan, the love interest of Robbie Hart (Adam Sandler). \"Variety\" found the film to be a \"spirited, funny and warm saga\" that serves them up \"in a new way that enhances their most winning qualities\". Budgeted at US$18 million, the film grossed US$123.3 million internationally. Barrymore starred in two other 1998 film releases, \"Home Fries\" and \"Ever After\". \"Home Fries\" saw her play a pregnant woman unknowingly falling for the stepson of the deceased father of her baby. In the romantic drama \"Ever After\", inspired by the fairy tale Cinderella, she took on the leading role; the film, which made US$98 million globally, served as a reminder, according to Roger Ebert, of how well Barrymore \"can hold the screen and involve us in her characters\".\n\nBarrymore voiced the title role of an anthropomorphic Jack Russell terrier in the television Christmas special \"Olive, the Other Reindeer\", for which she was nominated for an Primetime Emmy. After Barrymore and Nancy Juvonen established Flower Films in 1995, she produced the company's first film, \"Never Been Kissed\" (1999), in which she also starred as an insecure copyeditor for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" enrolling in high school as part of assigned research. While reviews from critics were mixed, \"CNN\" noted: \"There are two words which describe why this film works: Drew Barrymore. Her comedic timing and willingness to go all out in her quest for a laugh combine to make \"Never Been Kissed\" a gratifying movie-going experience\". The film was a commercial success, grossing US$84.5 million.\n\nIn \"Charlie's Angels\" (2000), Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu played the trio of investigators in Los Angeles. The film was a major box office success and helped solidify the standing between Barrymore and the company. Barrymore starred in \"Riding in Cars with Boys\" (2001), as a teenage mother in a failed marriage with the drug-addicted father (based on Beverly Donofrio's real-life story). When the production of Richard Kelly's \"Donnie Darko\" was threatened, Barrymore stepped forward with financing from the company, and played the title character's English teacher. Although the film was less than successful at the box office in the wake of 9/11, it reached cult status after the DVD release, inspiring numerous websites devoted to unraveling the plot twists and meanings.\n\nIn 2002, Barrymore starred with Sam Rockwell and Julia Roberts in George Clooney's directorial debut \"Confessions of a Dangerous Mind\", based on the autobiography of television producer Chuck Barris. In 2003, she reprised her role as Dylan Sanders in \"\", and starred with Ben Stiller in \"Duplex\". Flower Films and Adam Sandler's Happy Madison Productions produced \"50 First Dates\" (2004), in which Barrymore took on the role of woman with short-term memory loss and the love interest of a marine veterinarian (Sandler). Summing up Barrymore's appeal, Roger Ebert, in his review for the film, remarked that Barrymore displayed a \"smiling, coy sincerity,\" in what he described as a \"ingratiating and lovable\" film. \"50 First Dates\" was a commercial success; it made US$120.9 million in North America and US$196.4 million worldwide.\n\nIn the American adaptation of the 1997 eponymous British remake \"Fever Pitch\" (2005), Barrymore played the love interest of an immature school teacher (Jimmy Fallon). The film grossed a modest US$50 million worldwide and was favorably by reviewers who felt it \"has enough charm and on-screen chemistry between [Fallon and Barrymore] to make it a solid hit\". She and Hugh Grant starred in \"Music and Lyrics\", which focuses on the relationship that evolves between a former pop music idol and an aspiring writer as they struggle to compose a song for a reigning pop diva. The romantic comedy, released in February 2007, received largely positive reviews, with \"The Washington Post\" finding the two to be \"great together\" in it. The film was a commercial success, grossing US$145 million globally.\nBarrymore starred in Curtis Hanson's little-seen poker-themed film \"Lucky You\" later in 2007, as an aspiring singer and the subject of affections of a talented poker player, and also reunited with \"Never Been Kissed\" director Raja Gosnell for the commercial hit \"Beverly Hills Chihuahua\" (2008), in which she voiced the titular character, a richly pampered pet who gets dognapped in Mexico and has to escape from an evil Doberman.\n\nIn 2009, Barrymore starred in the ensemble comedy \"He's Just Not That Into You\", which garnered mixed reviews from critics, who observed her limited time on screen, while it grossed US$178 million worldwide. She played the lead role of Edith Bouvier Beale, the daughter of Edith Ewing Bouvier Beale (Jessica Lange), in the HBO film \"Grey Gardens\", directed by Michael Sucsy and based on the 1975 documentary of the same name. The television film was a huge success, winning five Primetime Emmy Awards and two Golden Globe Awards. \"Rolling Stone\" writer Peter Travels found Barrymore to be a \"revelation\" in her role. Barrymore received a nomination for the 2009 Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie. She won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Miniseries or Television Film and won the Screen Actors Guild for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries award.\n\nBarrymore made her directorial debut with the sports dramedy \"Whip It\" (2009); she also starred opposite Ellen Page and Marcia Gay Harden in the film, about a high-schooler (Page) who ditches the teen beauty pageant scene so she participate in an Austin roller derby league. Barrymore worked with screenwriter Shauna Cross for months on script revisions, with Barrymore pushing her to \"avoid her story's tidier prospects, to make things 'more raw and open ended.'\" While the film found limited box office receipts, it was favorably received; according to review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, critics agreed that her \"directorial debut has enough charm, energy, and good-natured humor to transcend its many cliches\". For her venture, Barrymore garnered nominations for a Bronze Horse at the Stockholm Film Festival and for the EDA Female Focus Award at the 2009 Alliance of Women Film Journalists. In \"Everybody's Fine\", her last 2009 film release, Barrymore played the daughter of a recently widowed retiree (Robert De Niro). The drama flopped at the box office, but Stephen Holden for \"The New York Times\" considered Barrymore \"as ingenuous as ever\" in what he described as a \"small role\".\n\nIn 2010, Barrymore starred with Justin Long in Nanette Burstein's \"Going the Distance\". The film follows a couple dealing the ups and downs of a long-distance relationship, while commuting between New York City and San Francisco. It garnered generally mixed reviews by critics, who summed it as \"timelier and a little more honest than most romantic comedies\", and budgeted at US$32 million, the film made US$40 million at the worldwide box office.\n\nOn August 2, 2011, Barrymore directed the music video for the song \"Our Deal,\" for the band Best Coast, which features Chloë Grace Moretz, Miranda Cosgrove, Tyler Posey, Donald Glover, Shailene Woodley and Alia Shawkat. Barrymore starred with John Krasinski in the drama \"Big Miracle\" (2012), which covers Operation Breakthrough, the 1988 international effort to rescue gray whales from being trapped in ice near Point Barrow, Alaska. The film saw her play Rachel Krameron, based on Greenpeace activist Cindy Lowry. Despite a positive critical reception, the film flopped at the box office.\n\nIn \"Blended\" (2014), Barrymore played Lauren Reynolds, a recently divorced woman ending up on a family resort with Jim Friedman (Sandler). Film critic James Berardinelli dismissed the \"hit-and-miss humor\" of the story and wrote that \"as [Sandler and Barrymore] are concerned, the third time is definitely not the charm\", as part of an overall lukewarm critical response. The film, however, ultimately grossed US$128 million worldwide. She and Toni Collette starred in \"Miss You Already\" (2015), as two long-time friends whose relationship is put to the test when one starts a family and the other becomes ill. Reviewers embraced the film, while it received a limited theatrical release.\n\nSince February 2017, Barrymore has starred in the Netflix television series \"Santa Clarita Diet\", portraying a family wife who, after experiencing a physical transformation into a zombie, starts craving human flesh. Along with co-star Timothy Olyphant, Barrymore also serves as an executive producer on the single-camera series, which was favorably received upon its premiere; \"Rolling Stone\" felt that \"much of [the series' laughs] comes down to the uncrushable Drew Barrymore charm\" and furthermore remarked: \"The show is a welcome comeback for Barrymore, the eternally beloved grunge-era wild thing—it's not just her big move into TV, but her first high-profile performance anywhere in years. In a way, it circles back to the roles she was doing in the early [90s], playing deadly vixens in flicks like \"Guncrazy\" or \"Doppelganger\"\". A second season was released in March 2018, and a third one is slated for 2019.\n\nBarrymore is set to star in Jamie Babbit's romance film, \"The Stand-In\".\n\nBarrymore became a CoverGirl Cosmetics' model and spokeswoman in 2007. In February 2015, she remained one of the faces of CoverGirl, alongside Queen Latifah and Taylor Swift. The company partnered with her because \"she emulates the iconic image of CoverGirl with her fresh, natural beauty and energetic yet authentic spirit,\" said Esi Eggleston Bracey, vice president and general manager of CoverGirl Cosmetics North America. She brought not only her personality into this endorsement but also her creative side, as she also helped create the ads. She was No. 1 in \"People\"'s annual 100 Most Beautiful People list in 2007. Later, she was named the new face for the Gucci jewelry line. As a model, Barrymore signed a contract with IMG Models New York City. She also was a spokeswoman for Crocs.\n\nBarrymore launched a women's fashion line in fall 2017 in conjunction with Amazon.com called Dear Drew, which featured a pop-up shop in New York City that opened in November.\n\nIn May 2007, Barrymore was named Ambassador Against Hunger for the United Nations World Food Programme and later donated $1 million to the cause. As a guest photographer for a magazine series called \"They Shoot New York,\" she appeared on the cover holding a Pentax K1000 film camera. She expressed hopes of exposing her work in a gallery one day, as she had documented the most recent decade of her life with a Pentax camera.\n\nAt age 16 in 1991, Barrymore became engaged to Leland Hayward, namesake and grandson of Hollywood producer Leland Hayward. The engagement was called off a few months later. Barrymore was engaged to and lived with musician and actor Jamie Walters from 1992 to 1993.\n\nShe married her first husband, Welsh-born Los Angeles bar owner Jeremy Thomas on March 20, 1994. She filed for divorce from him less than two months later.\n\nIn late 1994, Barrymore began dating Hole guitarist Eric Erlandson, followed by MTV host and comedian Tom Green in 1999; she and Green were engaged in July 2000 and married a year later. Together, they starred in \"Charlie's Angels\" and Green's directorial film debut \"Freddy Got Fingered\". Green filed for divorce in December 2001, which was finalized on October 15, 2002.\n\nIn 2002, she began dating The Strokes drummer Fabrizio Moretti shortly after they met at a concert. Their five-year relationship ended in January 2007. She began dating Justin Long, but they broke up in July 2008. While filming \"Going the Distance,\" Barrymore and Long reunited in 2009, but broke up again the next year.\"\"\n\nIn early 2011, Barrymore began dating art consultant Will Kopelman, the son of former Chanel CEO Arie Kopelman. The couple announced their engagement in January 2012, and married on June 2, 2012, in Montecito, California. Four days later, the couple's wedding image appeared on the cover of \"People\" magazine. Barrymore and Kopelman have two daughters: Olive Barrymore Kopelman (born 2012) and Frankie Barrymore Kopelman (born 2014). On April 2, 2016, Barrymore and Kopelman released a statement confirming they had separated and intended to divorce. On July 15, 2016, Barrymore officially filed for divorce, which was finalized on August 3, 2016.\n\nBarrymore has two songs named after her, written by SZA and Bryce Vine.\n\nBarrymore said in an interview with Contact Music in 2003 that she had always considered herself bisexual.\n\nBarrymore is the godmother of Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love's daughter, Frances Bean Cobain.\n\nIn 1999, Barrymore was honored by the Young Artist Foundation with its Former Child Star \"Lifetime Achievement\" Award commemorating her outstanding achievements within the film industry as a child actress. For her contributions to the film industry, Barrymore received a motion pictures star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2004. Her star is located at 6925 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nBarrymore's films compiled a worldwide box office gross that stood at over US$2.3 billion. According to \"The Hollywood Reporter\"s annual Star Salary Top 10, she was tied for eighth place on the top ten list of actresses' salaries, commanding 10 to 12 million dollars per film for 2006. Barrymore became the youngest person to have hosted \"Saturday Night Live\" having hosted on November 20, 1982, at 7 years of age, a record that remained unbroken . On February 3, 2007, Barrymore hosted \"SNL\" for the fifth time, making her the second female host (after Candice Bergen) in the show's history to do so. She hosted again on October 10, 2009, becoming the first female to host six times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43042010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43042010", "title": "Eltingville (comics)", "text": "Eltingville (comics)\n\nEltingville (also referred to as The Eltingville Club) is the name given to a series of comics created by Evan Dorkin. The series ran in his comic books \"Dork\" and \"House of Fun\" before it received a two-issue run through Dark Horse Comics in 2014. \"Eltingville\" was adapted into a pilot for Cartoon Network's Adult Swim programming block in 2002, but was not picked up for an official series. The series has won three Eisner Awards, beginning with the 1995 story \"Bring Me the Head of Boba Fett\". Of the series' title, Dorkin chose to name the series \"Eltingville\" after Eltingville, Staten Island, where he worked off and on in a comic book store for six years.\n\nThe \"Eltingville\" comics surround a group of four teen boys (Bill, Pete, Josh, and Jerry) in Eltingville, Staten Island that are interested in various different elements of geek culture, with each character showing a specific interest in one area. Dorkin has described the characters as \"four older teenagers who are fans, and they’re possibly some of the worst fans who have ever lived.\" The series places the characters in various scenarios that Dorkin utilizes to parody common stereotypes and situations that he or others have come across in comic book and geek fandom.\n\n\n\nThe first \"Eltingville\" story was an untitled strip that ran in the first issue of \"Instant Piano\" in 1994. Dorkin initially intended for the strip to be a one-shot, but chose to continue writing \"Eltingville\" themed stories due to reader response and his own enjoyment of the comic. Following stories were published through various different publications such as \"Dork\", \"House of Fun\", and \"Dark Horse Presents\". \"Eltingville\" was published in the United Kingdom in \"Deadline\" as well as in Spain, where strips ran in the Spanish language magazine \"El Vibora\" and a collection of the strips were published in 2007 as \"El Club Eltingville De Comics, Ciencia-Ficcion, Fantasia, Terror y Juegos de Rol\".\n\n\n\n\nDorkin came up with the idea for \"Eltingville\" after witnessing comic book publisher and author Dan Vado receive abuse while he was working with DC Comics. Vado killed off the popular character Ice while writing \"Justice League America\", which caused various fans to send him death threats and hate mail. He published the first strip in \"Instant Piano\" in 1994 and ended up writing follow up stories in the \"Eltingville\" world over a period of 20 years. The \"Eltingville\" characters are an exaggerated portrayal of several people that Dorkin knows and also draws on Dorkin's own likes and experiences as a fan, retailer, and professional. They are meant to portray the fanbase that does not \"change or evolve\" to embrace changes in geek culture such as the \"increasing acceptance and swell of fandom\", as they see their fandom as making up their entire identity and being.\n\nDorkin has received both praise and backlash from readers over his description of comic book readers and the geek fandom. Of \"Eltingville's\" humor, he has stated that \"The humor is supposed to hit close to home, \"Eltingville\"'s a joke but it's supposed to be an uncomfortable one, it's not about cuddly, cute, awkward fans, it's always been about the unsocial, self-absorbed, arrogant little tyrants that make fandom a less fun place, the idiots who make death threats to creators and rape threats against women writing about sexism in the video game industry, who flip out about the casting of an actor playing a fictional character, who argue the most ridiculous points of trivia as if they honestly matter in the scheme of things, who put fantasy above reality and don't know how to behave like credible human beings and go bonkers if they're called on that behavior. Most fan aren't like that, but in all aspects of life the trolls are the loudest and the proudest and they really junk the joint up.\"\n\nIn October 2001 work completed on an animated adaptation of the \"Eltingville\" stories, entitled \"Welcome to Eltingville\". The pilot episode aired in 2002 as part of Cartoon Network's late night programming block Adult Swim and adapted the story \"Bring Me the Head of Boba Fett\". Critical response for the pilot episode was positive, but the pilot was not picked up for a full series. Dorkin has stated that if he could have done the pilot over again, that he would have delegated more work and that he would have chosen a different story to animate for the episode, as it would have shown a wider perspective for the series and characters.\n"}
{"id": "4339310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4339310", "title": "Expulsion from the Garden of Eden", "text": "Expulsion from the Garden of Eden\n\nThe Expulsion from the Garden of Eden () is a fresco by the Italian Early Renaissance artist Masaccio. The fresco is a single scene from the cycle painted around 1425 by Masaccio, Masolino and others on the walls of the Brancacci Chapel in the church of Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence. It depicts the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the garden of Eden, from the biblical Book of Genesis chapter 3, albeit with a few differences from the canonical account.\n\nMany possible sources of inspiration have been pointed out that Masaccio may have drawn from. For Adam, possible references include numerous sculptures of Marsyas (from Greek Mythology) and certain crucifix done by Donatello.\n\nFor Eve, art analysts usually point to different versions of Venus Pudica, such as \"Prudence\" by Giovanni Pisano.\n\nThree centuries after the fresco was painted, Cosimo III de' Medici, in line with contemporary ideas of decorum, ordered that fig leaves be added to conceal the genitals of the figures. These were eventually removed in the 1980s when the painting was fully restored and cleaned.\nMasaccio provided a large inspiration to the more famous Renaissance painter Michelangelo, due to the fact that Michelangelo's teacher, Domenico Ghirlandaio, looked almost exclusively to him for inspiration for his religious scenes. Ghirlandaio also imitated various designs done by Masaccio. This influence is most visible in Michelangelo's \"The Fall of Man and the Expulsion from the Garden of Eden\" on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.\n\nThe main points in this painting that deviate from the account as it appears in Genesis:\n\n\nHowever, since artists often followed the studio tradition, painting from previous versions of a scene--and so learning from and absorbing other artists' expressive inventions into their own work--any responsible iconographic study would founder in the shallows of literal expectation if the painting were only judged by its adherence to these details and therefore seen to be successful only if it functioned as a simple illustration for the scene. \n\nMasaccio's evocation of Eve's howling, deeply felt pain in particular explores the meaning of the expulsion on a previously unexamined, more personal level.\n\nIn 2nd Temple Jewish texts, however, Adam is described as glorious (\"Sirach\" 49, \"&c.\"), and in both some Rabbinic and Christian Patristic sources, there is a long tradition of reading the Hebrew word for \"skin\" as \"light\" (there is only one slight difference in the vowels between the two words), and taking the Genesis 3:21 words about God clothing the pair in the Pluperfect sense, such as Sebastian Brock has shown is done in the Syriac tradition. In Rabbinic sources there are several times when Adam is compared and contrasted with Moses, particularly in terms of Moses' luminosity after ascending the mountain, and at least one text where Moses claims that his glory is greater than Adam's, because he did not lose his glory (Deuteronomy Rabbah 11:3); Genesis Rabbah 20:12 notes that Rabbi Meir had a scroll that had \"light\" instead of skin. The same tradition is found in Ephrem the Syrian, who, in his \"Hymns on Paradise\" 6, talks about Christ clothing the faithful in the robe that Adam lost with the transgression. The Canon of St. Andrew of Crete has the cantor liken himself to Adam, and say \"I have found myself stripped naked of God\". The Venerable Bede, in his commentary \"On Genesis\", has similar comments: \"having lost the glory of innocence by their transgression, they claimed for themselves the garment of an excuse\". The \"stripped of divinity/glory/innocence/honor motif is thus found in the Latin, Greek, and Syriac traditions of the Church. It seems quite possible that these artists were working within this very old tradition that stretches across traditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "442147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442147", "title": "F. R. Leavis", "text": "F. R. Leavis\n\nFrank Raymond \"F. R.\" Leavis (14 July 1895 – 14 April 1978) was a British literary critic of the early-to-mid-twentieth century. He taught for much of his career at Downing College, Cambridge, and later at the University of York.\n\nFrank Raymond Leavis was born in Cambridge in 1895, about a decade after T. S. Eliot, James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence and Ezra Pound, literary figures whose reputations he would later contribute to enhancing. His father, Harry Leavis, a cultured man, ran a shop in Cambridge which sold pianos and other musical instruments, and his son was to retain a respect for him throughout his life. Leavis was educated at a fee-paying independent school (in English terms a minor public school), The Perse School, whose headmaster was Dr. W. H. D. Rouse. Rouse was a classicist and known for his \"direct method\", a practice which required teachers to carry on classroom conversations with their pupils in Latin and classical Greek. Though he had some fluency in foreign languages, Leavis felt that his native language was the only one on which he was able to speak with authority. His extensive reading in the classical languages is not therefore strongly evident in his critical publications.\n\nLeavis had won a scholarship from the Perse School to Emmanuel College, Cambridge to read History. Britain declared war on Germany soon after he matriculated, when he was nineteen. Leavis left Cambridge after his first year as an undergraduate and joined the Friends' Ambulance Unit (FAU) at York in 1915. After the introduction of conscription in 1916, when his brother Ralph also joined the FAU , he benefited from the blanket recognition of the members of the Friends' Ambulance Unit as conscientious objectors. Leavis is quoted as saying: \"But after the Bloody Somme there could be no question for anyone who knew what modern war was like of joining the army.\"\n\nHe worked in France behind the Western Front, carrying a copy of Milton's poems with him. His wartime experiences had a lasting effect on him, making him prone to insomnia. He maintained that exposure to poison gas retained in the clothes of soldiers who had been gassed damaged his physical health, particularly his digestion.\n\nLeavis was slow to recover from the war, and he was later to refer to it as \"the great hiatus\". He said: \"The war, to put it egotistically, was bad luck for us.\"\n\nOn his return from the war in 1919 Leavis changed his field of study to English and became a pupil in the newly founded English School at Cambridge. Despite graduating with first-class honours, Leavis was not seen as a strong candidate for a research fellowship and instead embarked on a PhD, then an unusual career move for an aspiring academic. In 1924, Leavis presented a thesis on \"The Relationship of Journalism to Literature\", which \"studied the rise and earlier development of the press in England\". This work contributed to his lifelong concern with the way in which the ethos of a periodical can both reflect and mould the cultural aspirations of a wider public. In 1927, Leavis was appointed as a probationary lecturer for the university, and, when his first substantial publications began to appear a few years later, their style was very much influenced by the demands of teaching.\n\nIn 1929 Leavis married one of his students, Queenie Roth, and this union resulted in a productive collaboration which yielded many major critical works. 1932 was an 'annus mirabilis' for them, when Leavis published \"New Bearings in English Poetry\", his wife published \"Fiction and the Reading Public\", and the quarterly periodical \"Scrutiny\" was founded. A small publishing house, The Minority Press, was founded by Gordon Fraser, another of Leavis' students, in 1930, and served for several years as an additional outlet for the work of Leavis and some of his students. In 1931 Leavis was appointed director of studies in English at Downing College where he was to teach for the next thirty years. He soon founded \"Scrutiny\", the critical quarterly that he edited until 1953, using it as a vehicle for the new Cambridge criticism, upholding rigorous intellectual standards and attacking the dilettante elitism he believed to characterise the Bloomsbury Group. \"Scrutiny\" provided a forum for (on occasion) identifying important contemporary work and (more commonly) reviewing the traditional canon by serious criteria. This criticism was informed by a teacher's concern to present the essential to students, taking into consideration time constraints and a limited range of experience.\n\n\"New Bearings in English Poetry\" was the first major volume of criticism Leavis was to publish, and it provides insight into his own critical positions. He has been frequently (but often erroneously) associated with the American school of New Critics, a group which advocated close reading and detailed textual analysis of poetry over, or even instead of, an interest in the mind and personality of the poet, sources, the history of ideas and political and social implications. Although there are undoubtedly similarities between Leavis's approach to criticism and that of the New Critics (most particularly in that both take the work of art itself as the primary focus of critical discussion), Leavis is ultimately distinguishable from them, since he never adopted (and was explicitly hostile to) a theory of the poem as a self-contained and self-sufficient aesthetic and formal artifact, isolated from the society, culture and tradition from which it emerged. \"New Bearings\", devoted principally to Gerard Manley Hopkins, William Butler Yeats, T. S. Eliot, and Ezra Pound, was an attempt to identify the essential new achievements in modern poetry. It also discussed at length and praised the work of Ronald Bottrall, whose importance was not to be confirmed by readers and critics.\n\nIn 1933 Leavis published \"For Continuity\", which was a selection of \"Scrutiny\" essays. This publication, along with \"Culture and the Environment\" (a joint effort with Denys Thompson), stressed the importance of an informed and discriminating, highly trained intellectual elite whose existence within university English departments would help preserve the cultural continuity of English life and literature. In \"Education and the University\" (1943), Leavis argued that ‘there is a prior cultural achievement of language; language is not a detachable instrument of thought and communication. It is the historical embodiment of its community’s assumptions and aspirations at levels which are so subliminal much of the time that language is their only index'.\n\nLeavis is sometimes seen as having contributed to the mythos of Merrie England with his notion of the \"organic community\", by which he seems to have meant a community with a deeply rooted and locally self-sufficient culture that he claimed to have existed in the villages of 17th and 18th century England and which was destroyed by the machine and mass culture introduced by the industrial revolution. Historians of the era have suggested that the idea was based on a misreading of history and that such communities had never existed. No historians of Early Modern Britain have supported the notion of the organic community.\n\nIn 1948, Leavis focused his attention on fiction and made his general statement about the English novel in \"The Great Tradition\" where he traced this claimed tradition through Jane Austen, George Eliot, Henry James, and Joseph Conrad. Contentiously, Leavis, and his followers, excluded major authors such as Charles Dickens, Laurence Sterne and Thomas Hardy from his canon, characterising Dickens as a \"mere entertainer\", but eventually, following the revaluation of Dickens by Edmund Wilson and George Orwell, Leavis changed his position, publishing \"Dickens the Novelist\" in 1970. The Leavisites' downgrading of Hardy may have damaged Leavis's own authority.\n\nIn 1950, in the introduction to \"Mill on Bentham and Coleridge\", a publication he edited, Leavis set out the historical importance of utilitarian thought. Leavis found Bentham to epitomize the scientific drift of culture and social thinking, which was in his view the enemy of the holistic, humane understanding he championed.\n\n\"The Common Pursuit\", another collection of his essays from \"Scrutiny\", was published in 1952. Outside his work on English poetry and the novel, this is Leavis’s best-known and most influential work. A decade later Leavis was to earn much notoriety when he delivered his Richmond lecture, \"Two Cultures? The Significance of C. P. Snow\" at Downing College. Leavis vigorously attacked Snow's suggestion, from a 1959 lecture and book by C. P. Snow (see \"The Two Cultures\"), that practitioners of the scientific and humanistic disciplines should have some significant understanding of each other, and that a lack of knowledge of twentieth-century physics was comparable to an ignorance of Shakespeare. Leavis's \"ad hominem\" attacks on Snow's intelligence and abilities were widely decried in the British press by public figures such as Lord Boothby and Lionel Trilling.\n\nLeavis introduced the idea of the \"third realm\" as a name for the method of existence of literature; works which are not private like a dream or public in the sense of something that can be tripped over, but exist in human minds as a work of collaborative re-constitution. The notion of the \"third realm\" has not received much attention subsequently. \n\nIn 1964 he resigned his fellowship at Downing; however, he took up visiting professorships at the University of Bristol, the University of Wales and the University of York. His final volumes of criticism were \"Nor Shall My Sword\" (1972), \"The Living Principle\" (1975) and \"Thought, Words and Creativity\" (1976). These later works are notable for their more discursive treatment of the issues he had debated with René Wellek in the 1930s.\n\nLeavis died in 1978, at the age of 82, having been made a Companion of Honour in the previous New Year Honours. His wife, Queenie D. Leavis, died in 1981. He features as a main character, played by Sir Ian Holm, in the 1991 BBC TV feature, \"The Last Romantics\". The story focuses on his relationship with his mentor, Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch and the students. More recently, in a revival of interest in his work, he has been the subject of a series of conferences at the University of York and at Downing College, Cambridge.\n\nAs Leavis continued his career he became increasingly dogmatic, belligerent and paranoid, and Martin Seymour-Smith found him (and his disciples) to be \"fanatic and rancid in manner\". Leavis' conduct led to a breach with T S Eliot who wrote\n\nLeavis' uncompromising zeal in promoting his views of literature drew mockery from quarters of the literary world involved in imaginative writing. In a letter that Edith Sitwell wrote to Pamela Hansford Johnson in 1959 she described Leavis as \"a tiresome, whining, pettyfogging little pipsqueak\". Leavis (as \"Simon Lacerous\") and Scrutiny (as \"Thumbscrew\") were satirized by Frederick Crews in the chapter \"Another Book to Cross off your List\" of his lampoon of literary criticism theory \"The Pooh Perplex A Student Casebook\". In her novel \"Possession\", A. S. Byatt (who was herself taught by Leavis) wrote of one of her characters (Blackadder) \"Leavis did to Blackadder what he did to serious students: he showed him the terrible, the magnificent importance and urgency of English literature and simultaneously deprived him of any confidence in his own capacity to contribute to or change it.\" Tom Sharpe, in his novel \"The Great Pursuit\", depicts a ludicrous series of events ending in the hero teaching Leavisite criticism as a religion in the American Bible Belt. Leavis also appears as \"Looseleaf\" in Clive James's \"Peregrine Prykke\". In his autobiography The Fry Chronicles, Stephen Fry described Leavis as a \"sanctimonious prick of only parochial significance\" and said that Leavis had an \"intense suspicious propensity to explode in wrath and anathematize anyone who dared disagree with him\". Fry notes:\n\nIn \"The Rise and Fall of the English Man of Letters\" (1969), John Gross wrote of Leavis's \"faintly comic air of having triumphantly demonstrated what has merely been strenuously asserted\".\n\nLeavis' proponents claimed that he introduced a \"seriousness\" into English studies, and some English and American university departments were shaped very much by Leavis’s example and ideas. Leavis appeared to possess a very clear idea of literary criticism and he was well known for his decisive and often provocative, and idiosyncratic, judgements. Leavis insisted that valuation was the principal concern of criticism, and that it must ensure that English literature should be a living reality operating as an informing spirit in society, and that criticism should involve the shaping of contemporary sensibility.\n\nLeavis's criticism is difficult to directly classify, but it can be grouped into four chronological stages. The first is that of his early publications and essays including \"New Bearings in English Poetry\" (1932) and \"Revaluation\" (1936). Here he was concerned primarily with reexamining poetry from the seventeenth to twentieth centuries, and this was accomplished under the strong influence of T. S. Eliot. Also during this early period Leavis sketched out his views about university education.\n\nHe then turned his attention to fiction and the novel, producing \"The Great Tradition\" (1948) and \"D. H. Lawrence, Novelist\" (1955). Following this period Leavis pursued an increasingly complex treatment of literary, educational and social issues. Though the hub of his work remained literature, his perspective for commentary was noticeably broadening, and this was most visible in \"Nor Shall my Sword\" (1972).\n\nTwo of his last publications embodied the critical sentiments of his final years; \"The Living Principle: ‘English’ as a Discipline of Thought\" (1975), and \"Thought, Words and Creativity: Art and Thought in Lawrence\" (1976). Although these later works have been sometimes called \"philosophy\", it has been argued that there is no abstract or theoretical context to justify such a description. In discussing the nature of language and value, Leavis implicitly treats the sceptical questioning that philosophical reflection starts from as an irrelevance from his standpoint as a literary critic - a position set out in his famous early exchange with René Wellek (reprinted in 'The Common Pursuit'). \n\nThough his achievements as a critic of fiction were impressive, Leavis is often viewed as having been a better critic of poetry than of the novel. In \"New Bearings in English Poetry\" Leavis attacked the Victorian poetical ideal, suggesting that nineteenth-century poetry sought the consciously ‘poetical’ and showed a separation of thought and feeling and a divorce from the real world. The influence of T. S. Eliot is easily identifiable in his criticism of Victorian poetry, and Leavis acknowledged this, saying in \"The Common Pursuit\" that, \"It was Mr. Eliot who made us fully conscious of the weakness of that tradition\" . In his later publication \"Revaluation\", the dependence on Eliot was still very much present, but Leavis demonstrated an individual critical sense operating in such a way as to place him among the distinguished modern critics.\n\nThe early reception of T. S. Eliot and Ezra Pound's poetry, and also the reading of Gerard Manley Hopkins, were considerably enhanced by Leavis's proclamation of their greatness. His criticism of John Milton, on the other hand, had no great impact on Milton's popular esteem. Many of his finest analyses of poems were reprinted in the late work, \"The Living Principle\".\n\nAs a critic of the novel, Leavis’s main tenet stated that great novelists show an intense moral interest in life, and that this moral interest determines the nature of their form in fiction. Authors within this \"tradition\" were all characterised by a serious or responsible attitude to the moral complexity of life and included Jane Austen, George Eliot, Henry James, Joseph Conrad, and D. H. Lawrence, but excluded Thomas Hardy and Charles Dickens. In \"The Great Tradition\" Leavis attempted to set out his conception of the proper relation between form/composition and moral interest/art and life. This proved to be a contentious issue in the critical world, as Leavis refused to separate art from life, or the aesthetic or formal from the moral. He insisted that the great novelist’s preoccupation with form was a matter of responsibility towards a rich moral interest, and that works of art with a limited formal concern would always be of lesser quality.\n\nLeavis was one of the earliest detractors of the BBC. He accused the Corporation's coverage of English literature of lacking impartiality, and of vulgarising the literary taste of British society. In\n1931, Leavis took issue with a BBC series of book discussions presented by\nHarold Nicolson, claiming that Nicolson's programmes lacked the \"sensitiveness of intelligence\" which Leavis believed good literary criticism required. Throughout his career, Leavis constantly took issue with the BBC's motives and actions, even once jokingly referring to his \"anti-BBC complex\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1025688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1025688", "title": "Hellmouth", "text": "Hellmouth\n\nHellmouth is the entrance to Hell envisaged as the gaping mouth of a huge monster, an image which first appears in Anglo-Saxon art, and then spread all over Europe, remaining very common in depictions of the \"Last Judgment\" and \"Harrowing of Hell\" until the end of the Middle Ages, and still sometimes used during the Renaissance and after. It enjoyed something of a revival in polemical popular prints after the Protestant Reformation, when figures from the opposite side would be shown disappearing into the mouth. A notable late appearance is in the two versions of a painting by El Greco of about 1578. Political cartoons still showed Napoleon leading his troops into one.\n\nMedieval theatre often had a hellmouth prop or mechanical device which was used to attempt to scare the audience by vividly dramatizing an entrance to Hell. These seem often to have featured a battlemented castle entrance, in painting usually associated with Heaven.\n\nThe oldest example of an animal Hellmouth known to Meyer Schapiro was an ivory carving of c. 800 in the Victoria and Albert Museum, and he says most examples before the 12th century are English. Many show the Harrowing of Hell, which appealed to Anglo-Saxon taste, as a successful military raid by Christ. Schapiro speculates that the image may have drawn from the pagan myth of the Crack of Doom, with the mouth that of the wolf-monster Fenrir, slain by Vidar, who is used as a symbol of Christ on the Gosforth Cross and other pieces of Anglo-Scandinavian art. In the assimilation of Christianised Viking populations in northern England, the Church was surprisingly ready to allow the association of pagan mythological images with Christian ones, in hogback grave markers for example.\n\nIn the Anglo-Saxon Vercelli Homilies (4:46-8) Satan is likened to a dragon swallowing the damned:\n\n\"... ne cumaþ þa næfre of þæra wyrma seaðe & of þæs dracan ceolan\nþe is Satan nemned.\" - \"[they] never come out of the pit of snakes and of the throat of the dragon which is called Satan.\"\n\nThe whale-monster Leviathan (translated from Hebrew, Job 41:1, \"wreathed animal\") has been equated with this description, although this is hard to confirm in the earliest appearances. However, in \"The Whale\", an Old English poem from the Exeter Book, the mouth of Hell is compared to a whale's mouth: \nThe whale has another trick: when he is hungry, he opens his mouth and a sweet smell comes out. The fish are tricked by the smell and they enter into his mouth. Suddenly the whale’s jaws close.\n\nLikewise, any man who lets himself be tricked by a sweet smell and led to sin will go into hell, opened by the devil — if he has followed the pleasures of the body and not those of the spirit. When the devil has brought them to hell, he clashes together the jaws, the gates of hell. No one can get out from them, just as no fish can escape from the mouth of the whale. \n\nLater in the Middle Ages the classical Cerberus also became associated with the image, although it is hardly likely that the Anglo-Saxons had him in mind.\n\nSatan himself is often shown sitting in Hell eating the damned, but according to G.D. Schmidt this is a separate image, and the Hellmouth should not be considered to be the mouth of Satan, although Hofmann is inclined to disagree with this. The Hellmouth never bites the damned, remaining wide open, ready for more.\n\nIn late medieval works by Hieronymous Bosch and his followers, where the wide interior of Hell is shown, there is often a Hellmouth leading to some special compartment.\n\n"}
{"id": "64689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64689", "title": "Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec", "text": "Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec\n\nHenri Marie Raymond de Toulouse-Lautrec-Monfa (24 November 1864 – 9 September 1901), also known as Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec (), was a French painter, printmaker, draughtsman, caricaturist, and illustrator whose immersion in the colourful and theatrical life of Paris in the late 19th century allowed him to produce a collection of enticing, elegant, and provocative images of the modern, sometimes decadent, affairs of those times.\n\nToulouse-Lautrec is among the best-known painters of the Post-Impressionist period, with Paul Cézanne, Vincent van Gogh, and Paul Gauguin.\n\nIn a 2005 auction at Christie's auction house, \"La Blanchisseuse\", his early painting of a young laundress, sold for US$22.4 million and set a new record for the artist for a price at auction.\n\nHenri Marie Raymond de Toulouse-Lautrec-Monfa was born at the Hôtel du Bosc in Albi, Tarn, in the Midi-Pyrénées region of France, the firstborn child of Alphonse Charles \"Comte\" de Toulouse-Lautrec-Monfa (1838–1913) and his wife Adèle Zoë Tapié de Celeyran (1841–1930). The last part of his name means he was a member of an aristocratic family (descendants of the Counts of Toulouse and Odet de Foix, Vicomte de Lautrec and the Viscounts of Montfa, a village and commune of the Tarn department of southern France, close to the cities of Castres and Toulouse). His younger brother was born in 1867, but died the following year. If he had outlived his father, Toulouse-Lautrec would have succeeded to the family title of \"Comte\".\n\nAfter the death of his brother, Toulouse-Lautrec's parents separated and a nanny eventually took care of him. At the age of eight, Toulouse-Lautrec went to live with his mother in Paris where he drew sketches and caricatures in his exercise workbooks. The family quickly realized that his talents lay in drawing and painting. A friend of his father, René Princeteau, visited sometimes to give informal lessons. Some of Toulouse-Lautrec's early paintings are of horses, a speciality of Princeteau, and a subject Lautrec revisited in his \"Circus Paintings\".\n\nIn 1875, Toulouse-Lautrec returned to Albi because his mother had concerns about his health. He took thermal baths at Amélie-les-Bains, and his mother consulted doctors in the hope of finding a way to improve her son's growth and development.\n\nToulouse-Lautrec's parents, the \"Comte\" and \"Comtesse\", were first cousins (his grandmothers were sisters), and he suffered from congenital health conditions sometimes attributed to a family history of inbreeding.\n\nAt the age of 13, Toulouse-Lautrec fractured his right femur. At 14, he fractured his left. The breaks did not heal properly. Modern physicians attribute this to an unknown genetic disorder, possibly pycnodysostosis (sometimes known as Toulouse-Lautrec Syndrome), or a variant disorder along the lines of osteopetrosis, achondroplasia, or osteogenesis imperfecta. Rickets aggravated by praecox virilism has also been suggested. Afterwards, his legs ceased to grow, so that as an adult he was extremely short (). He developed an adult-sized torso, while retaining his child-sized legs. Additionally, he is reported to have had hypertrophied genitals.\n\nPhysically unable to participate in many activities enjoyed by males his age, Toulouse-Lautrec immersed himself in art. He became an important Post-Impressionist painter, art nouveau illustrator, and lithographer, and, through his works, recorded many details of the late-19th-century bohemian lifestyle in Paris. Toulouse-Lautrec contributed a number of illustrations to the magazine \"Le Rire\" during the mid-1890s.\n\nAfter initially failing college entrance exams, he passed his second attempt and completed his studies.\n\nDuring a stay in Nice, France, his progress in painting and drawing impressed Princeteau, who persuaded Toulouse-Lautrec's parents to let him return to Paris and study under the portrait painter Léon Bonnat. Toulouse-Lautrec's mother had high ambitions and, with the aim of her son becoming a fashionable and respected painter, used their family's influence to get him into Bonnat's studio. He was drawn to Montmartre, the area of Paris famous for its bohemian lifestyle and the haunt of artists, writers, and philosophers. Studying with Bonnat placed Toulouse-Lautrec in the heart of Montmartre, an area he rarely left over the next 20 years.\n\nAfter Bonnat took a new job, Toulouse-Lautrec moved to the studio of Fernand Cormon in 1882 and studied for a further five years and established the group of friends he kept for the rest of his life. At this time he met Émile Bernard and Vincent van Gogh. Cormon, whose instruction was more relaxed than Bonnat's, allowed his pupils to roam Paris, looking for subjects to paint. During this period, Toulouse-Lautrec had his first encounter with a prostitute (reputedly sponsored by his friends), which led him to paint his first painting of a prostitute in Montmartre, a woman rumoured to be Marie-Charlet.\n\nWith his studies finished, in 1887 he participated in an exposition in Toulouse using the pseudonym \"Tréclau\", the verlan of the family name \"Lautrec\". He later exhibited in Paris with Van Gogh and Louis Anquetin. The Belgian critic Octave Maus invited him to present eleven pieces at the Vingt (the Twenties) exhibition in Brussels in February. Van Gogh's brother Theo bought \"Poudre de Riz\" (Rice Powder) for 150 francs for the Goupil & Cie gallery.\n\nFrom 1889 until 1894, Toulouse-Lautrec took part in the Independent Artists' Salon () on a regular basis. He made several landscapes of Montmartre. Tucked deep into Montmartre in the garden of Monsieur Pere Foret, Toulouse-Lautrec executed a series of pleasant plein-air paintings of Carmen Gaudin, the same red-headed model who appears in \"The Laundress\" (1888).\n\nWhen the Moulin Rouge cabaret opened, Toulouse-Lautrec was commissioned to produce a series of posters. His mother had left Paris and, though he had a regular income from his family, making posters offered him a living of his own. Other artists looked down on the work, but he ignored them. The cabaret reserved a seat for him and displayed his paintings. Among the well-known works that he painted for the Moulin Rouge and other Parisian nightclubs are depictions of the singer Yvette Guilbert; the dancer Louise Weber, better known as La Goulue (The Glutton) who created the French can-can; and the much subtler dancer Jane Avril.\n\nHenri de Toulouse-Lautrec's family were Anglophiles, and though he was not as fluent as he pretended to be, he spoke English well enough. He travelled to London where he was commissioned by the J. & E. Bella company to make a poster advertising their confetti (which was banned after the 1892 Mardi Gras) and the bicycle advert \"La Chaîne Simpson\".\n\nWhile in London, he met and befriended Oscar Wilde. When Wilde faced imprisonment in Britain, Toulouse-Lautrec became a very vocal supporter of him and his portrait of Oscar Wilde was painted the same year as Wilde's trial.\n\nToulouse-Lautrec was mocked for his short stature and physical appearance, which led him to abuse alcohol.\n\nHe initially only drank beer and wine, but his tastes expanded into hard liquor, namely absinthe. The Earthquake cocktail \"(Tremblement de Terre)\" is attributed to Toulouse-Lautrec: a potent mixture containing half absinthe and half cognac in a wine goblet. To ensure he was never without alcohol, he hollowed out his cane (which he needed to walk, owing to his underdeveloped legs) and filled it with liquor.\n\nIn addition to his growing alcoholism, Toulouse-Lautrec also frequented prostitutes. He was fascinated by their lifestyle and the lifestyle of the \"urban underclass\" and incorporated those characters into his paintings. Fellow painter Édouard Vuillard later said that while Toulouse-Lautrec did engage in sex with prostitutes, \"the real reasons for his behavior were moral ones ... Lautrec was too proud to submit to his lot, as a physical freak, an aristocrat cut off from his kind by his grotesque appearance. He found an affinity between his own condition and the moral penury of the prostitute.\"\n\nA fine and hospitable cook, Toulouse-Lautrec built up a collection of favourite recipes – some original, some adapted – which were posthumously published by his friend and dealer Maurice Joyant as \"L'Art de la Cuisine\". The book was republished in English translation in 1966 as \"The Art of Cuisine\" – a tribute to his inventive (and wide-ranging) cooking.\n\nBy February 1899, Toulouse-Lautrec's alcoholism began to take its toll and he collapsed from exhaustion and the effects of alcoholism. His family had him committed to Folie Saint-James, a sanatorium in Neuilly-sur-Seine for three months. While he was committed, he drew 39 circus portraits. After his release, he returned to the Paris studio for a time and then traveled throughout France. His physical and mental health began to decline rapidly owing to alcoholism and syphilis, which he reportedly contracted from Rosa La Rouge, a prostitute who was the subject of several of his paintings.\n\nOn 9 September 1901, at the age of 36, he died from complications due to alcoholism and syphilis at his mother's estate, Château Malromé in Saint-André-du-Bois. He is buried in Cimetière de Verdelais, Gironde, a few kilometres from the estate. His last words reportedly were \"Le vieux con!\" (\"the old fool\"), his goodbye to his father, though another version has been suggested, in which he used the word \"hallali\", a term used by huntsmen at the moment the hounds kill their prey: \"Je savais, Papa, que vous ne manqueriez pas l'hallali\" (\"I knew, papa, that you wouldn't miss the death.\").\n\nAfter Toulouse-Lautrec's death, his mother, Adèle \"Comtesse\" de Toulouse-Lautrec-Monfa, and his art dealer, Maurice Joyant, continued promoting his artwork. His mother contributed funds for a museum to be created in Albi, his birthplace, to show his works. This Musée Toulouse-Lautrec owns the largest collection of his works.\n\nIn his less-than-20-year career, Toulouse-Lautrec created:\nHis debt to the Impressionists, particularly the more figurative painters like Manet and Degas, is apparent, for within his works, one can draw parallels to the detached barmaid at \"A Bar at the Folies-Bergère\" by Manet and the behind-the-scenes ballet dancers of Degas. His style was also influenced by the classical Japanese woodprints which became popular in art circles in Paris.\n\nHe excelled at depicting people in their working environments, with the colour and movement of the gaudy nightlife present but the glamour stripped away. He was a master at painting crowd scenes where each figure was highly individualized. At the time they were painted, the individual figures in his larger paintings could be identified by silhouette \"alone\", and the names of many of these characters have been recorded. His treatment of his subject matter, whether as portraits, in scenes of Parisian nightlife, or as intimate studies, has been described as alternately \"sympathetic\" and \"dispassionate\".\n\nToulouse-Lautrec's skilled depiction of people relied on his painterly style, which is highly linear and emphasizes contour. He often applied paint in long, thin brushstrokes which would leave much of the board underneath showing through. Many of his works may be best described as \"drawings in coloured paint\".\n\nOn 20 August 2018 Toulouse-Lautrec was the featured artist on the BBC television programme \"Fake or Fortune?\". Researchers attempted to discover whether two sketchbooks were created by him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46381749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46381749", "title": "Hill West Architects", "text": "Hill West Architects\n\nHill West Architects (formerly Goldstein, Hill & West Architects) is a New York City based architecture firm which works on the planning and design of high-rise residential and hospitality buildings, retail structures and multi-use complexes. They have participated in the design of prominent structures in the New York City metropolitan area. The firm was founded in 2009 by Alan Goldstein, L. Stephen Hill and David West. Its clients have included Extell Development Company, The Witkoff Group, The Trump Organization, Silverstein Properties, Tishman Speyer and The Lightstone Group.\n\nThe co-founders of Hill West are members of the American Institute of Architects. In 2017, the firm's name was changed from Goldstein, Hill & West Architects to Hill West Architects. The decision to rebrand and rename reflects the retirement of longtime partner, Alan Goldstein, who co-founded Goldstein, Hill & West in 2008.\n\nLead Architect\n\nArchitect\n\n\nExecutive Architect\n\nIn February 2014, Hill West launched Whitehall Interiors NYC, a New York City-based, affiliated interior design firm focused on the creation of interiors for residential and commercial properties. The firm's projects have included the lobby renovation of The Feil Organization's 7 Penn Plaza and 488 Madison Avenue.\n\nNotable projects include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24135873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24135873", "title": "Hip-hop theater", "text": "Hip-hop theater\n\nHip-hop theater is a form of theater that presents contemporary stories through the use of one or more of the four elements of hip-hop culture—b-boying, graffiti writing, MCing (rapping), and DJing. Other cultural markers of hip-hop such as spoken word, beatboxing, and hip-hop dance can be included as well although they are not always present. What is most important is the language of the theatrical piece and the plot's relevance to the world. Danny Hoch, founder of the Hip-Hop Theater Festival, further defines it as such: \"Hip-hop theatre must fit into the realm of theatrical performance, and it must be \"by, about and for\" the hip-hop generation, participants in hip-hop culture, or both.\"\n\nHip-hop theater productions appear in a wide range of platforms including single performances, week-long festivals, and traveling repertory companies. Marc Bamuthi Joseph is an award-winning spoken word poet and dancer who has been commissioned several times to create and direct single hip-hop theater works. British choreographer Jonzi D is the artistic director of the London-based Breakin' Convention, a week long hip-hop theater festival. Rennie Harris, Mourad Merzouki, and Victor Quijada are artistic directors who run hip-hop theater companies in the U.S., France, and Canada respectively. The Rock Steady Crew, Magnificent Force, and the Rhythm Technicians pioneered this theatrical genre which started in the United States.\n\nThough hip-hop culture has managed to establish itself on film, on television, in fashion, in music, and in the dance industry, it has not gained the same momentum in theater. Stage productions are few in number but growing. The first hip-hop stage shows were 1990's off Broadway musical \"So! What Happens Now?\" and 1995's \"Jam on the Groove\" which were co-authored, co-directed, and co-choreographed by Jorge \"Popmaster Fabel\" Pabon and Steffan \"Mr. Wiggles\" Clemente. Rock Steady Crew, Magnificent Force, and the Rhythm Technicians performed in both shows. Aside from the pioneers in New York City was Lorenzo \"Rennie\" Harris' Puremovement (RHPM) hip-hop theater company which Harris founded in 1992 in Philadelphia. The company has toured all over the world showcasing its original works such as \"March of the Antmen\", \"P-Funk\", \"Endangered Species\", \"Facing Mekka\", and \"Rome & Jewels\". RHPM also organizes the annual Illadelph Legends Festival which brings together the pioneers—the people who were b-boying, locking, and popping in the 1970s when these styles were developed—and respected practitioners of hip-hop dance to teach master classes, give lecture demonstrations, and participate in panel discussions.\n\nOther hip-hop theater companies were founded in the 1990s. Compagnie Käfig is a French hip-hop theater company of mostly Algerian descent founded in 1995 by Mourad Merzouki. Their performances mix standard b-boying, locking, and popping with capoeira, mime, and gymnastics. They use the same fusion in music by mixing rap music with classical music and Andalusian guitar. While on tour in the U.S. they performed at Jacob's Pillow in Massachusetts and at the Joyce Theater in New York. Bintou Dembélé performed at the Joyce Theater in New York with Mourad Merzouki's Compagnie Käfig in 2002. That same year she created her own dance company, which she describes as being mainly inspired by Pina Bausch's notion of 'danced theater'.\n\nThe Groovaloos are a hip-hop theater company based in Los Angeles that was founded by Bradley \"Shooz\" Rapier. They started out in 1999 as a dance crew and eventually developed a stage show called \"Groovaloo\" that is a series of stories based on the true life experiences of the dancers. Company members include Edmundo \"Poe One\" Loayza, Rynan \"Kid Rainen\" Paguio from JabbaWockeeZ, and Teresa \"Rag Doll\" Espinosa from Beat Freaks.\n\nRUBBERBANDance Group (RBDG) was founded in 2002 in Montreal by Los Angeles native Victor Quijada. Quijada first started dancing as a b-boy in Baldwin Park, California. He studied modern dance in high school and after graduating went on to become a professional dancer under Twyla Tharp and Les Grands Ballets Canadiens de Montréal. He started RBDG after leaving the Montreal ballet. \"The New York Times\" called the style of dance his company performs \"post hip-hop\" because it's a fusion of hip-hop dance and ballet.\n\nMarc Bamuthi Joseph is an award-winning spoken word poet and playwright who frequently directs independent hip-hop theater productions. Some of his works include \"Word Becomes Flesh\", \"De/Cipher\", and \"No Man's Land\". He collaborated with Rennie Harris in 2007 to create \"Scourge\", a play about Haiti's social-economic struggles. Joseph directed the play while Harris served as the choreographer. In 2008, he created \"the break/s\" which is based on the book \"Can't Stop Won't Stop\" by Jeff Chang.\n\nOther solo hip-hop theater artists include Sarah Jones who headlined the first Hip-Hop Theater Festival and award-winning playwright Will \"Power\" Wylie who collaborated with Danny Hock on his one-man play \"Flow\". Also, West Coast feminist writer/performer Aya de Leon whose award-winning show \"Thieves in the Temple: The Reclaiming of Hip Hop\" focused on fighting sexism and consumerism in hip hop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19682205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19682205", "title": "Huoheian", "text": "Huoheian\n\nHuǒhēiàn (Chinese: ) is an ancient Chinese system of aesthetics believed to serve as the philosophical yang to fengshui's yin. It was originally described as an art of only theoretical use, although it was eventually adopted as the \"de facto\" alternative to fengshui.\n\n\"Huǒhēiàn\" translate as \"fire and darkness\" in English. This name refers to a passage from the \"Book of Burial\" of Guo Pu of the Jin Dynasty:\n\nQi vapors in the fire, and is lost in the darkness.\nUnlike fengshui, \"huǒhēiàn\" values diagonal and non-orthogonal arrangements, closed spaces, corners, dim lighting, blocked pathways, and jade statuettes of snakes (a trademark of the art).\n\nEarly practitioners of the aethetic system were considered cruel, brash, and unpleasing to human tastes in their creations. However, like the dark motifs of Gothic architecture (believed by some to be a Western analogy of sorts), \"huǒhēiàn\" grew to mainstream acceptance at various points in Chinese history. The mixing of the grandiose and unseen blended to give many a feelings of mystery and excitement.\n\nThe art of \"huǒhēiàn\" countermands many of fengshui's stylistic imperatives, such as screen walls facing the main entrance of the house, talismans to ward off evil, and elevated landscapes to the anterior of the house. Additionally, \"huǒhēiàn\" enjoins against the presence of ponds, pools, wells, or indeed water sources of any kind. In fact, this prohibition was the origin of the now-canonical Chinese rock garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "3854546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3854546", "title": "Iroquois Park", "text": "Iroquois Park\n\nIroquois Park is a 739-acre (3.0 km²) municipal park in Louisville, Kentucky, United States. It was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, who also designed Louisville's Cherokee Park and Shawnee Park, at what were then the edges of the city. Located south of downtown, Iroquois Park was promoted as \"Louisville's Yellowstone\". It is built on a large knob covered with old growth forest, and its most prominent feature are the scenic viewpoints atop the hill.\n\nThe summit of Iroquois Park presents an all-at-once vista of the city of Louisville, seen from the south. A bronze plaque at the site demonstrates the plan of the city's park and parkway system as planned and executed by Olmsted's firm.\n\nThe park features an amphitheater, basketball courts, 18-hole golf course, a disc golf course and a riding stable. Louisville Metro Parks and partner companies stage concerts, musicals, and other shows each summer at Iroquois Amphitheater.\n\nIroquois Park was one of the three major suburban parks created in the late 19th century in Louisville. In 1889, Mayor Charles Donald Jacob purchased Burnt Knob, a 313-acre (1.3 km²) tract of land 4 miles (6 km) south of the city, for $9,000, and was reimbursed by the city treasurer without approval from the city council or public referendum, meaning the original purchase was probably illegal. Jacob also negotiated with landowners between the city and the then-rural park to acquire the right of way for a 150-foot (46 m) wide \"Grand Boulevard\", today's Southern Parkway, which still leads to the park.\n\nThe move was controversial at first and called \"Jacob's Folly\" by political opponents after early improvements were washed away by rain in the Spring of 1889. In 1890 control over the park, then called Jacob's Park, was given to the Board of Park Commissioners. Frederick Law Olmsted was invited to tour the park, and gave an influential speech at the Pendennis Club on May 20, 1891, and signed a contract to design the city's park system two days later. Work was soon underway on the park, by then renamed Iroquois, which Olmsted envisioned as \"providing the grandeur of the forest depths in the dim seclusion of which you may wander musingly for hours\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58614707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58614707", "title": "Jason Wirth", "text": "Jason Wirth\n\nJason Martin Wirth is an American philosopher and professor of philosophy at Seattle University. He was the Theiline Pigott McCone Chair in Humanities from 2014 to 2016. He won The Torch Bearer Award in 2018. Wirth is known for his research on environmental philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1146374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146374", "title": "Lalique", "text": "Lalique\n\nLalique is a French glassmaker, founded by renowned glassmaker and jeweller René Lalique in 1888. Lalique is best known for producing glass art, including perfume bottles, vases, and hood ornaments during the early twentieth century. Following the death of René, Lalique transitioned to producing lead glass (crystal) works during the 1950s while under the direction of René's son, Marc Lalique. Since 2010, Lalique has been owned by Swiss company Art and Fragrance.\n\nRené Lalique (1860-1945) began his career as a jewellery apprentice at the age of 16, and by 1881 he was a freelance designer for many of the best-known Parisian jewellers. In 1885, he opened his own workshop on Place Gaillon in Paris, the former workshop of Jules Destape. In 1887, Lalique opened a business on Rue du Quatre-Septembre, and registered the \"RL\" mark the following year. In 1890, he opened a shop in the Opera District of Paris. Within a decade, Lalique was amongst the best-known Parisian jewellers.\nIn 1905, Lalique opened a new shop at Place Vendôme which exhibited not only jewellery, but glass works as well. It was close to the shop of renowned perfumer François Coty; in 1907, Lalique began producing ornate perfume bottles for Coty. The production of glass objects began at his country villa in 1902, and continued there until at least 1912. The first Lalique glassworks opened in 1909 in a rented facility in Combs-la-Ville, which Lalique later purchased in 1913. In December 1912, Lalique hosted an exhibition of Lalique Glass—as his glass would come to be known—at the Place Vendôme shop. During the First World War, the glassworks produced mundane items in support of the war effort. In 1919, work began on a new production facility in Wingen-sur-Moder, which opened in 1921. From 1925-1931, Lalique produced 29 models of hood ornaments; a mermaid statuette first produced in 1920 was also later sold as a hood ornament. During the 1920s and 1930s, Lalique was amongst the world's most renowned glassmakers.\n\nRené Lalique died in 1945. His son Marc Lalique took over the business, operating initially as \"M.Lalique\" and later as \"Cristal Lalique\". Under Marc's leadership, the company transitioned from producing its famous Lalique Glass to producing lead glass, commonly known as \"crystal\". Marie-Claude Lalique took control of the company following Marc's death in 1977. It was sold to Pochet in 1994 and to a partnership of Art & Fragrance and the holding company Financière Saint-Germain in 2008. Since 2010, Cristal Lalique has been wholly owned by Art & Fragrance.\n\nToday, Lalique produces an array of luxury products in five main categories: jewellery, decorative items, interior design, perfumes, and art. The company is best known for the production of artistic glass works, primarily using crystal (lead glass) since the mid-twentieth century. The addition of perfumes (in 1992) and non-glass decorative items and art (since 2011) are recent additions to Lalique's product line. Reproductions of designs by René Lalique have increased since 2009.\n\nFrom its founding until the 1900s-1910s, Lalique was one of France's foremost Art Nouveau jewellery designers. In the first two decades of the twentieth century, Lalique transitioned into one of the world's most renowned makers of artistic glass objects. During the first half of the twentieth century, Lalique produced perfume bottles, vases (about 300 designs), hood ornaments (30 designs), and decorative glass works, such as inkwells, bookends, and paperweights. Lalique also designed several interiors, incorporating copious amounts of glass, including interiors for: the SS \"Paris\", the SS \"Ile de France\", the SS \"Normandie\", Orient Express railroad cars, Peace Hotel (Shanghai), Oviatt Building (Los Angeles), and St Matthew's Church (Jersey).\n\nThe company's sole production facility is the \"Cristallerie Lalique\" in Wingen-sur-Moder. It was opened in 1921 as the \"Verrerie d'Alsace\" (Alsace Glassworks) and given its present name in 1962. \n"}
{"id": "45578282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45578282", "title": "Leslee Udwin", "text": "Leslee Udwin\n\nLeslee Udwin (born 1957) is a British filmmaker, actress, director, producer and human rights activist.\n\nShe was born in Savyon, Israel, to a European Jewish family with roots in England, Germany and Lithuania. At the age of about nine she went with her family to South Africa where they spent the next ten years. Her parents were religious Jews, but at the age of about thirteen, she rebelled against Judaism, particularly the morning prayer called Shacharit, in which men say, \"I thank God that he did not make me a woman\".\n\nWhile her father wanted her to be a lawyer, Udwin supported herself working in theatre and teaching while at university; in her first year she was raped, a fact she told nobody about at the time. She began her career as an actress at the Space Theatre in Cape Town, one of the only two integrated (‘multi-cultural’) theatres in South Africa, playing in the \"Duchess of Malfi\" and Stephen Poliakoff’s \"Hitting Town\". Not wishing to work in ‘whites-only’ theatres, her work possibilities in South Africa were limited, so she moved to London at age twenty-one. There she acted in plays at the Royal Court, National Theatre, Royal Shakespeare Company and Cheek By Jowl playing roles like Lady Macbeth, Isobel in \"The Mayor of Zalamea\", Masha in Chekhov's \"Three Sisters\", Nora in \"A Doll's House\", etc. On screen she appeared in the BBC Shakespeare Series production of \"The Merchant of Venice\" (1980). In 1989 she set a legal precedent in the High Court of England against a criminal landlord Nicholas van Hoogstraten who harassed her and her fellow tenants in their rent act protected apartment block in West London. She then turned her real life two and a half year battle against Hoogstraten and its victorious outcome into a drama documentary \"Sitting Targets\" (1989) for the BBC drama series \"Screen Two\", feeling that this optimistic story should inspire as many people as possible; this was her first experience behind the camera.\n\nAfter ten years as an actress she wanted more: \"It was an exciting career, but working as an actress was not enough for me – I began to want to choose and not just interpret the stories being told.\" This led her to become a producer.\nShe started her production company, Assassin Films, in 1989. Her well-known productions include the films \"East is East\" (1999), \"Mrs Ratcliffe's Revolution\" (2007), and \"West is West\" (2010), and the documentary \"India's Daughter\" (2015).\n\nLeslee is no stranger to successful campaigning films. \"Who Bombed Birmingham?\" (1990, starring John Hurt) for HBO and Granada TV, directly led to the release of the ‘Birmingham Six’ after 17 years of wrongful imprisonment. The morning after the broadcast Margaret Thatcher stood up in the House of Commons, seething with rage shouting, \"We will not have trial by television in this country.\" Her feature film \"East is East\" (35 prestigious awards worldwide, including British Oscar for Best Film) did much to promote tolerance and the celebration of diversity as between the Asian and British communities and has become a classic film taught in schools across Europe. Her documentary \"India's Daughter\", has been critically acclaimed around the globe, won 32 awards (including the Peabody Award and the Amnesty International Media Award for Best Documentary 2016) and sparked a global movement to end violence against women and girls.\n\nThe searing insights yielded by the 2½ year journey making \"India’s Daughter\", led Leslee to found UK-and-US-based Not for Profit global education initiative ThinkEqual, of which she is the CEO.\nLeslee was voted by the \"NY Times\" the No 2 Most Impactful Woman of 2015 (second to Hillary Clinton), and has been awarded the prestigious Swedish Anna Lindh Human Rights Prize (previously won by Madeleine Albright) in 2015. She has also been named Safe’s Global Hero of 2015, and a Global Thinker by \"Foreign Policy\".\n\nShe lives in London, UK when not on assignments in places such as Copenhagen and India.\n\n\"India's Daughter\" was banned by the Indian government who were alerted to its 'undesirable nature' by a number of Indian feminists including Indira Jaisingh, Urvashi Bhutalia, Vrinder Grover, Kavita Krishnan, Dr Devaki Jain. The BJP government accused Udwin of \"a conspiracy to shame India\" and wish to \"decimate its tourist industry\". Udwin listed statistics at the end of the documentary to draw attention to the fact that violence against women and girls is a global pandemic to which no country is immune. She has said she believes the reason for the ban is \"India's current obsession with nationalism and image which makes it reluctant to look in the mirror\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4541242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4541242", "title": "List of postmodern critics", "text": "List of postmodern critics\n\nThis is a list of postmodern literary critics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Early critics important to postmodernism\":\n\n\"General\":\n"}
{"id": "4275789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4275789", "title": "List of works by De Es Schwertberger", "text": "List of works by De Es Schwertberger\n\nThis article is a list of work by De Es Schwertberger (b.1942), an Austrian artist, painter, and modeller.\n\nDe Es Schwertberger's works have been exhibited in the following one-person exhibits, group shows, and portfolios:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2457043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457043", "title": "Lists of Jews associated with literature and journalism", "text": "Lists of Jews associated with literature and journalism\n\nJewish writers by country:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24505146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24505146", "title": "Marsha Bemko", "text": "Marsha Bemko\n\nMarsha Bemko is an American television producer. She is the executive producer of the PBS series \"Antiques Roadshow\". In addition to \"Antiques Roadshow\", Bemko is also executive producer for PBS's antiques series \"Market Warriors\".\n\nBemko's television career spans 30 years. Prior to joining \"Roadshow\" as a senior producer in 1999, Bemko worked on a variety of public affairs programs for PBS. She was WGBH's coordinating producer for national programming and the series producer for \"Culture Shock\" (1999), a historical series about censorship in the arts and freedom of expression. Bemko served as coordinating producer for \"Discovering Women\" (1995), a series about six women scientists. She worked in a variety of production capacities for the award-winning \"Frontline\" public affairs series beginning in 1982.\n\nBemko's professional background also includes stints as director of marketing for the Boston Marketing Services Group and as a reporter for the Springfield Newspapers.\n\nIn addition to her role as executive producer of \"Antiques Roadshow\", Bemko is a sought-after lecturer, appearing across the country at the invitation of community organizations, colleges, business groups, and public television stations, including WGBH where she has mentored aspiring producers as part of the CPB/WGBH Producers Workshop. Bemko also writes for the \"Antiques Roadshow Insider\", a WGBH-licensed newsletter, and she has served on the Opening Night Committee of the Winter Antiques Show. \n\nBemko is a 1977 graduate of Westfield State College and serves on the Westfield State College Foundation Board of Directors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8906152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8906152", "title": "Mizuhiki", "text": "Mizuhiki\n\nMizuhiki (水引) is an ancient Japanese art form that uses a special cord. \n\nThe cord is created from rice paper, that is tightly wound, starched to give it stiffness, and then colored. The ways of coloring include brightly colored Mylar (a very thin plastic), thin strands of silk, or simply painted. The art form was used to tie up the hair of the samurai.\n\nCurrently there are several forms. The traditional decoration, given away at Japanese occasions, such as weddings, births, and funerals take the forms of animals or boats. Different animals are created for different meanings, including cranes, frogs, fish, dragons, and turtles are among the most popular. The other traditional way the art is done is in decorating cards with little colored knots, similarly to how people in western cultures use a ribbon and bow. A third way is being developed that uses the ancient art for a more modern purpose, jewelry.\n\n"}
{"id": "26134495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26134495", "title": "Palazzo Rinaldi", "text": "Palazzo Rinaldi\n\nPalazzo Rinaldi Artists' Residency is a family run artists' residency and writers' retreat set in a historical property dating back from 1822. Located in the hilltop village of Noepoli, in the Pollino National Park (Basilicata region of Southern Italy), it is open to professional artists of all disciplines.\n\nSince 2008 the residency has been working closely with the small local community by regularly running summer events in the village to promote interaction with its international residents. These have included exhibitions, public workshops, talks, performances and film screenings:\n\nA member of Res Artis, Palazzo Rinaldi was selected as one of 'Ten Of The Best Creative Getaways' by AOL Travel UK (2011) and one of Italy's 'Extraordinary Place to Stay' by the Gazzetta Italiana.\n\n"}
{"id": "58776640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58776640", "title": "Peter Alward", "text": "Peter Alward\n\nPeter Wallace Brannen Alward is a Canadian philosopher and Professor and Head of Philosophy Department at the University of Saskatchewan. He is known for his works on philosophy of fiction, philosophy of art and environmental philosophy.\nIn 2016 Alward was awarded Tenured Professor Essay Prize by The Canadian Philosophical Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11176257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11176257", "title": "Pinacoteca Civica Fortunato Duranti", "text": "Pinacoteca Civica Fortunato Duranti\n\nThe 19th-century painter Fortunato Duranti donated hundreds of items or art and furniture, he had collected to the town of Montefortino, Italy. The remainder of the collection is displayed in a pinacoteca.\n"}
{"id": "3908644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3908644", "title": "Political views on the Macedonian language", "text": "Political views on the Macedonian language\n\nThe existence and distinctiveness of the Macedonian language is disputed among linguists and common people from Macedonia and its neighboring countries. The Eastern South Slavic varieties indigenous to the current Republic of Macedonia are part of dialectal continuum which stretches from Croatian, Bosnian and Serbian Shtokavian dialect through Torlakian on the northwest, to western and eastern Bulgarian dialects on the East, and the Macedonian language, like Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian, is a standardized form of (some of) these dialects.\n\nBulgarian ethnos in Macedonia existed long before the earliest articulations of the idea that Macedonian Slavs might form a separate ethnic group from the Bulgarians in Danubian Bulgaria and Thrace. Throughout the period of Ottoman rule, the Slav-speaking people of the geographic regions of Moesia, Thrace and Macedonia referred to their language as Bulgarian and called themselves Bulgarians. For instance, the Serbian researcher St. Verković who was a long term teacher in Macedonia, sent by the Serbian government with special assimilatory mission wrote in the preface of his collection of Bulgarian folk songs: \"I named these songs Bulgarian, and not Slavic because today when you ask any Macedonian Slav: Who are you? he immediately answers: I am Bulgarian and call my language Bulgarian...\" The name \"Bulgarian\" for various Macedonian dialects can be seen from early vernacular texts such as the four-language dictionary of Daniil of Moschopole, the early works of Kiril Pejchinovich and Ioakim Kurchovski and some vernacular gospels written in the Greek alphabet. These written works influenced by or completely written in the Bulgarian vernacular were registered in Macedonia in the 18th and beginning of the 19th century and their authors referred to their language as Bulgarian. The first samples of Bulgarian speech and the first grammar of modern Bulgarian language were written by the leading Serbian literator Vuk Karadjić on the basis of the Macedonian Razlog dialect. In those early years the re-emerging Bulgarian written language was still heavily influenced by Church Slavonic forms so dialectical differences were not very prominent between the Eastern and Western regions. Indeed, in those early years many Bulgarian activists sometimes even communicated in Greek in their writing.\n\nWhen the Bulgarian national movement got under way in the second quarter of the 19th century some cities in Macedonia were among the first to demand education in Bulgarian and Bulgarian-speaking clerics for their churches. By the 1860s however, it was clear that the Central Balkan regions of Bulgaria were assuming leadership in linguistic and literary affairs. This was to a large extent due to the fact that the affluent towns on both sides of the Central Balkan range were able to produce more intellectuals educated in Europe than the relatively more backward other Bulgarian regions. Consequently, when the idea that the vernacular rather than Church Slavonic should be represented in the written language gained preponderance, it was the dialects of the Central Balkan region between Veliko Tarnovo and Plovdiv that were most represented.\n\nSome prominent Bulgarian educators from Macedonia like Parteniy Zografski and Kuzman Shapkarev called for a stronger representation of Macedonian dialects in the Bulgarian literary language but their advice was not heeded at the time and sometimes met with hostility. In the article \"\" by Petko Rachev Slaveykov, published on 18 January 1871 in the \"Makedoniya\" newspaper in Constantinople, Macedonism was criticized, his adherents were named Macedonists, and this is the earliest surviving indirect reference to it, although Slaveykov never used the word \"Macedonism\".The term's first recorded use is from 1887 by Stojan Novaković to describe Macedonism as a potential ally for the Serbian strategy to expand its territory toward Macedonia, whose population was regarded by almost all neutral sources as Bulgarian at the time.\nThe consternation of certain Macedonians with what they saw as the domineering attitude of Northern Bulgarians towards their vernacular was later deftly exploited by the Serbian state, which had begun to fear the rise of Bulgarian nationalism in Macedonia.\n\nUp until 1912/18 it was the standard Bulgarian language that most Macedonians learned (and taught) in the Exarchate schools. All activists and leaders of the Macedonian movement, including those of the left, used standard Bulgarian in documents, press publications, correspondence and memoirs and nothing indicates they viewed it as a foreign language. This is characteristic even of the members of IMRO (United) well into the 1920s and 1930s, when the idea of a distinct Macedonian nation was taking shape.\n\nFrom the 1930s onwards the Bulgarian Communist Party and the Comintern sought to foster a separate Macedonian nationality as a means of achieving autonomy for Macedonia within a Balkan federation. Consequently, it was Bulgarian-educated Macedonians who were the first to develop a distinct Macedonian language, culture and literature. When Socialist Macedonia was formed as part of Federal Yugoslavia, these Bulgarian-trained cadres got into a conflict over the language with the more Serbian-leaning activists, who had been working within the Yugoslav Communist Party. Since the latter held most of the political power, they managed to impose their views on the direction the new language was to follow, much to the dismay of the former group. Dennis P. Hupchick, American professor of history, states that \"the obviously plagiarized historical argument of the Macedonian nationalists for a separate Macedonian ethnicity could be supported only by linguistic reality, and that worked against them until the 1940s. Until a modern Macedonian literary language was mandated by the socialist-led partisan movement from Macedonia in 1944, most outside observers and linguists agreed with the Bulgarians in considering the vernacular spoken by the Macedonian Slavs as a western dialect of Bulgarian\".\n\nAfter 1944 the communist-dominated government sought to create a Bulgarian-Yugoslav federation (see Balkan Communist Federation) and part of this entailed giving \"cultural autonomy\" to the Pirin region. Consequently, Bulgarian communists recognised the Macedonian language as distinct from Bulgarian. After the Tito-Stalin split in 1948, those plans were abandoned. This date also coincided with the first claims of Bulgarian linguists as to the Serbianisation of the Macedonian language. Officially Bulgaria continued to support the idea of a Macedonian unification and a Macedonian nation but within the framework of a Balkan Federation and not within Yugoslavia. However, a reversal in the Macedonisation policy was already announced in the secret April plenum of the BCP in 1956 and openly proclaimed in the plenum of 1963. 1958 was the first time that a \"serious challenge\" to the Macedonian position was launched by Bulgaria. These developments led to violent polemics between Yugoslav and Bulgarian scholars and sometimes reflected on the bilateral relations of the two countries.\n\nAccording to the Macedonian view, now prevalent and official in the books in Republic of Macedonia, Macedonian was the first official language of the Slavs, thanks to the St. Cyril and St. Methodius's introduction of Slavic literacy language through the Glagolitic script, that was based on Southern Macedonian dialect from the neighbourhood of Thessaloniki, the home of the two saints. Later on, Macedonia fell under the rule of Bulgarians, and the Byzantines regarded all Slavic Macedonians as Bulgarians. According to a minority view, supported in the Republic of Macedonia, Tsar Samuil's realm in the early Middle Ages was allegedly the first Macedonian Slavic state. However, Krste Misirkov, who allegedly set the principles of the Macedonian literary language in the late 19th century, stated: \"We speak a Bulgarian language and we believed with Bulgaria is our strong power.\"\n\nDuring the time of the Ottoman Empire, Serbia, Macedonia, Bulgaria, and Greece were all under Ottoman reign. During the nineteenth century, the primary source of identity was religion. Because Slavs in the geographical regions of Macedonia and Bulgaria were both Orthodox Christian and the Greek Orthodox Church was attempting to Hellenize the population, Macedonian and Bulgarian intellectuals banded together to establish a Slavic literary language in opposition to Greek. Two competing centers of literacy rose at the beginning of the nineteenth century: southwestern Macedonia and northeastern Bulgaria. These centers were different enough at every linguistic level to be competing to become the literary language. When the Bulgarian Exarchate was recognized as a millet on par with the Greek millet (on religious grounds), the designation Bulgarian was still a religious term, in opposition to Greek, and the language began to be standardized on the basis of the Bulgarian center of literacy. Intellectuals from the Macedonian center of literacy felt that their dialects were being excluded from the literary Bulgarian language. By the time the Bulgarian state gained independence in 1878, the population of Macedonia and Bulgaria was subjected to conflicting claims from the Serbian, Bulgarian, and Greek states and churches, which provided education, and a distinct Macedonian national identity was written about in print. By 1903, a separate Macedonian identity and language is solidified in the works of Krste Petkov Misirkov, who advocates for a distinct Macedonian literary language.\n\nAlthough Bulgaria was the first country to recognize the independence of the Republic of Macedonia, most of its academics, as well as the general public, regard the language spoken there as a form of Bulgarian. However, after years of diplomatic impasse caused by an academic dispute, in 1999 the government in Sofia solved the problem with the Macedonian Language under the formula: \"the official language of the country (Republic of Macedonia) in accordance with its constitution\".\n\nMost Bulgarian linguists consider the Slavic dialects spoken in the region of Macedonia as a part of the Bulgarian dialect area. Numerous shared features of these dialects with Bulgarian are cited as proof. Bulgarian scholars also claim that the overwhelming majority of the Macedonian population had no conscience of a Macedonian language separate from Bulgarian prior to 1945. Russian scholars cite the early references to the language in Slavic literature from the middle of 10th century to the end of 19th century as \"bulgarski\" or \"bolgarski\" as proof of that claim. From that, the conclusion is drawn that modern standard Macedonian is not a language separate from Bulgarian either but just another written \"norm\" based on a set of Bulgarian dialects. See dialect and dialect continuum to assess the validity of these arguments.\n\nMoreover, Bulgarian linguists assert that the Macedonian and Yugoslav linguists who were involved in codifying the new language artificially introduced differences from literary Bulgarian to bring it closer to Serbian. They are also said to have resorted to falsifications and deliberate misinterpretations of history and documents in order to further the claim that there was a consciousness of a separate Macedonian ethnicity before 1944. Although the original aim of the codifiers of Macedonian was to distance it from both Bulgarian and Serbian, Bulgarians today view the standard Macedonian language as heavily Serbianised, especially with regards to its vocabulary. Bulgarian scholars such as Kosta Tsrnushanov claim there are several ways in which standard Macedonian was influenced by Serbian. Venko Markovski, writer, poet and Communist politician from Macedonia, who in 1945 participated in the Commission for the \"Creation of the Macedonian Alphabet\" and once wrote in the Macedonian language and published what was the first contemporary book written in standardized Macedonian, stated in an interview for Bulgarian National Television only seven days prior to his death, that ethnic Macedonians and the Macedonian language do not exist and that they were a result of Comintern manipulation. Part of Bulgarian scholars and people hold the view that Macedonian is one of three \"norms\" of the Bulgarian language, the other two being standard Bulgarian and the language of the Banat Bulgarians. This formulation was detailed in 1978 in a document of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences entitled \"The Unity of the Bulgarian Language Today and in the Past\". Although Bulgaria was the first country to recognize the independence of the Republic of Macedonia, it has refused to recognise the existence of a separate Macedonian ethnicity and a separate Macedonian language. This was a major obstacle to the development of diplomatic relations between the two countries until a compromise solution was worked out in 1999.\n\nSerbia officially recognises the Macedonian Language as separate language to Bulgarian. In the 2002 census c.26,000 people declared themselves as Macedonians.\n\nFrom the Greek point of view, there can be only one meaning for the term \"Macedonia\", and that is in reference to ancient Macedon and the modern Greek region of Macedonia. It follows that the term cannot properly be used for a Slavic language.\n\nDemetrius Andreas Floudas, Senior Associate of Hughes Hall, Cambridge, explains that it was only in 1944 that Josip Broz Tito, in order to increase his regional influence, gave to the southernmost province of Yugoslavia (hitherto officially known as Vardarska banovina) the new name of People's Republic of Macedonia. At the same time, in a \"political master-stroke\", the local language - which was until\nthen held to be a western Bulgarian dialect - was unilaterally christened \"Macedonian\" and became one of Yugoslavia's official\nlanguages. Greece similarly rejects the name \"Republic of Macedonia\", seeing it as an implicit territorial claim on the whole of the region.\n\nBooks have been published in Greece which purport to expose the artificial character of the Macedonian language. Some Greeks believe that the Slavic dialects spoken in Greek Macedonia are actually a mixture of Slavic and Greek (\"see Slavic language (Greece)\").\n\nLinguists outside of Macedonia and Bulgaria subscribe either to a pro-Macedonian or a pro-Bulgarian view.\n\nIllustrating the pro-Macedonian view is Horace Lunt, a Harvard professor, who wrote the first English language grammar of the Macedonian language in the early 1950s: \"Bulgarian scholars, who argue that the concept of a Macedonian language was unknown before World War II, or who continue to claim that a Macedonian language does not exist look not only dishonest, but silly, while Greek scholars who make similar claims are displaying arrogant ignorance of their Slavic neighbours\"; (Lunt 1984:110, 120). Similarly, Loring Danforth, professor of Anthropology at Bates College in Lewiston, Maine, addresses the stance of linguists, who attribute the origin of the Macedonian language to their will, stressing that all languages in the standardisation process have a certain political and historical context to them and the fact that Macedonian language had a political context in which it was standardised doesn't mean it's not a language.\n\nIllustrating the pro-Bulgarian view, Italian linguist Vittore Pisani stated \"the Macedonian language is actually an artifact produced for primarily political reasons\". German linguist Friedrich Scholz, argues that the Macedonian national consciousness and from that conscientious promotion of Macedonian as a written language, first appears just in the beginning of our century and is strengthened particularly during in the years between the two world wars. Austrian linguist Otto Kronsteiner, states that the Macedonian linguists artificially introduced differences from the literary Bulgarian language to bring Macedonian closer to Serbian, jesting that the Macedonian language is a Bulgarian one, but written on a Serbian typewriter. \n"}
{"id": "18765250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18765250", "title": "Richard Edwards (fashion company)", "text": "Richard Edwards (fashion company)\n\nRichard Edwards was a fashion design company in operation from 1993 to 2002 and was based in New York City. \n\nIt was founded by Richard Bengtsson and Edward Pavlick. \n\nIn 1995 they won the Council of Fashion Designers of America's (CFDA) Perry Ellis award for best new menswear.\n"}
{"id": "299259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299259", "title": "Roman currency", "text": "Roman currency\n\nRoman currency for most of Roman history consisted of gold, silver, bronze, orichalcum and copper coinage. (See: Roman metallurgy) From its introduction to the Republic, during the third century BC, well into Imperial times, Roman currency saw many changes in form, denomination, and composition. A persistent feature was the inflationary debasement and replacement of coins over the centuries. Notable examples of this followed the reforms of Diocletian. This trend continued into Byzantine times.\n\nBecause of the economic power and longevity of the Roman state, Roman currency served was widely used throughout western Eurasia and northern Africa from classical times into the Middle Ages. It served as a model for the currencies of the Muslim caliphates and the European states during the Middle Ages and the Modern Era. Roman currency names survive today in many countries today, e.g. the Arabic dinar (from the \"denarius\" coin), the Peruvian sol (from the \"solidus\" coin), the British pound and Mexican peso (both translations of the Roman \"libra\"), etc.\n\nThe manufacture of coins in the Roman culture, dating from about the 4th century BC, significantly influenced later development of coin minting in Europe. The origin of the word \"mint\" is ascribed to the manufacture of silver coin at Rome in 269 BC at the temple of Juno Moneta. This goddess became the personification of money, and her name was applied both to money and to its place of manufacture. Roman mints were spread widely across the Empire, and were sometimes used for propaganda purposes. The populace often learned of a new Roman Emperor when coins appeared with the new Emperor's portrait. Some of the emperors who ruled only for a short time made sure that a coin bore their image; Quietus, for example, ruled only part of the Roman Empire from 260 to 261 AD, and yet he issued two coins bearing his image. The Romans cast their larger copper coins in clay moulds carrying distinctive markings, not because they did not know about striking, but because it was not suitable for such large masses of metal.\n\nRoman adoption of metallic commodity money was a late development in monetary history. Bullion bars and ingots were used as money in Mesopotamia since the 7th millennium BC; and Greeks in Asia Minor had pioneered the use of coinage (which they employed in addition to other more primitive, monetary mediums of exchange) as early as the 7th century BC. Coinage proper was only introduced by the Roman Republican government c. 300 BC. The greatest city of the Magna Graecia region in southern Italy, and several other Italian cities, already had a long tradition of using coinage by this time and produced them in large quantities during the 4th century BC to pay for their wars against the inland Italian groups encroaching on their territory. For these reasons, the Romans would have certainly known about coinage systems long before their government actually introduced them.\n\nThe reason behind Rome's adoption of coinage was likely cultural. The Romans had no pressing economic need, but they wanted to emulate Greek culture; they considered the institution of minted money a significant feature of that culture. However, Roman coinage initially saw very limited use.\n\nThe type of money introduced by Rome was unlike that found elsewhere in the ancient Mediterranean. It combined a number of uncommon elements. One example is the large bronze bullion, the ' (Latin for \"struck bronze\"). It measured about and weighed around , being made out of a highly leaded tin bronze. Although similar metal currency bars had been produced in Italy and northern Etruscan areas, these had been made of ', an unrefined metal with a high iron content.\n\nAlong with the \"aes signatum\", the Roman state also issued a series of bronze and silver coins that emulated the styles of those produced in Greek cities. Produced using the manner of manufacture then utilised in Greek Naples, the designs of these early coins were also heavily influenced by Greek designs.\n\nThe designs on the coinage of the Republican period displayed a \"solid conservatism\", usually illustrating mythical scenes or personifications of various gods and goddesses.\n\nIn 27 BC, the Roman Republic came to an end as Augustus (63 BC – 14 AD) ascended to the throne as the first emperor. Taking autocratic power, it soon became recognized that there was a link between the emperor's sovereignty and the production of coinage.\n\nThe imagery on coins took an important step when Julius Caesar issued coins bearing his own portrait. While moneyers had earlier issued coins with portraits of ancestors, Caesar's was the first Roman coinage to feature the portrait of a living individual. The tradition continued following Caesar's assassination, although the imperators from time to time also produced coins featuring the traditional deities and personifications found on earlier coins. The image of the Roman emperor took on a special importance in the centuries that followed, because during the empire, the emperor embodied the state and its policies. The names of moneyers continued to appear on the coins until the middle of Augustus' reign. Although the duty of moneyers during the Empire is not known, since the position was not abolished, it is believed that they still had some influence over the imagery of the coins.\n\nThe main focus of the imagery during the empire was on the portrait of the emperor. Coins were an important means of disseminating this image throughout the empire. Coins often attempted to make the emperor appear god-like through associating the emperor with attributes normally seen in divinities, or emphasizing the special relationship between the emperor and a particular deity by producing a preponderance of coins depicting that deity. During his campaign against Pompey, Caesar issued a variety of types that featured images of either Venus or Aeneas, attempting to associate himself with his divine ancestors. An example of an emperor who went to an extreme in proclaiming divine status was Commodus. In 192 A.D., he issued a series of coins depicting his bust clad in a lion-skin (the usual depiction of Hercules) on the obverse, and an inscription proclaiming that he was the Roman incarnation of Hercules on the reverse. Although Commodus was excessive in his depiction of his image, this extreme case is indicative of the objective of many emperors in the exploitation of their portraits. While the emperor is by far the most frequent portrait on the obverse of coins, heirs apparent, predecessors, and other family members, such as empresses, were also featured. To aid in succession, the legitimacy of an heir was affirmed by producing coins for that successor. This was done from the time of Augustus till the end of the empire.\n\nFeaturing the portrait of an individual on a coin, which became legal in 44 BC, caused the coin to be viewed as embodying the attributes of the individual portrayed. Dio wrote that following the death of Caligula the Senate demonetized his coinage, and ordered that they be melted. Regardless of whether or not this actually occurred, it demonstrates the importance and meaning that was attached to the imagery on a coin. The philosopher Epictetus jokingly wrote: \"Whose image does this sestertius carry? Trajan's? Give it to me. Nero's? Throw it away, it is unacceptable, it is rotten.\" Although the writer did not seriously expect people to get rid of their coins, this quotation demonstrates that the Romans attached a moral value to the images on their coins. Unlike the obverse, which during the imperial period almost always featured a portrait, the reverse was far more varied in its depiction. During the late Republic there were often political messages to the imagery, especially during the periods of civil war. However, by the middle of the Empire, although there were types that made important statements, and some that were overtly political or propagandistic in nature, the majority of the types were stock images of personifications or deities. While some images can be related to the policy or actions of a particular emperor, many of the choices seem arbitrary and the personifications and deities were so prosaic that their names were often omitted, as they were readily recognizable by their appearance and attributes alone.\n\nIt can be argued that within this backdrop of mostly indistinguishable types, exceptions would be far more pronounced. Atypical reverses are usually seen during and after periods of war, at which time emperors make various claims of liberation, subjugation, and pacification. Some of these reverse images can clearly be classified as propaganda. An example struck by emperor Philip in 244 features a legend proclaiming the establishment of peace with Persia; in truth, Rome had been forced to pay large sums in tribute to the Persians.\n\nAlthough it is difficult to make accurate generalizations about reverse imagery, as this was something that varied by emperor, some trends do exist. An example is reverse types of the military emperors during the second half of the third century, where virtually all of the types were the common and standard personifications and deities. A possible explanation for the lack of originality is that these emperors were attempting to present conservative images to establish their legitimacy, something that many of these emperors lacked. Although these emperors relied on traditional reverse types, their portraits often emphasized their authority through stern gazes, and even featured the bust of the emperor clad in armor.\n\nUnlike most modern coins, Roman coins had (at least in the early centuries) significant intrinsic value. However, while the gold and silver issues contained precious metals, the value of a coin was slightly higher than its precious metal content, so they were not, strictly speaking, bullion. Also, over the course of time the purity and weight of the silver coins were reduced. Estimates of the value of the denarius range from 1.6 to 2.85 times its metal content, thought to equal the purchasing power of 10 modern British Pound Sterling (US$15.50) at the beginning of the Roman Empire to around 18 Pound Sterling (US$28) by its end (comparing bread, wine and meat prices) and, over the same period, around one to three days' pay for a Legionary.\n\nThe coinage system that existed in Egypt until the time of Diocletian's monetary reform was a closed system based upon the heavily debased tetradrachm. Although the value of these tetradrachmas can be reckoned as being equivalent in value to the denarius, their precious metal content was always much lower. Clearly, not all coins that circulated contained precious metals, as the value of these coins was too great to be convenient for everyday purchases. A dichotomy existed between the coins with an intrinsic value and those with only a token value. This is reflected in the infrequent and inadequate production of bronze coinage during the Republic, where from the time of Sulla till the time of Augustus no bronze coins were minted at all; even during the periods when bronze coins were produced, their workmanship was sometimes very crude and of low quality.\n\nThe type of coins issued changed under the coinage reform of Diocletian, the heavily debased antoninianus (double denarius) was replaced with a variety of new denominations, and a new range of imagery was introduced that attempted to convey different ideas. The new government set up by Diocletian was a tetrarchy, or rule by four, with each emperor receiving a separate territory to rule.\n\nThe new imagery includes a large, stern portrait that is representative of the emperor. This image was not meant to show the actual portrait of a particular emperor, but was instead a character that embodied the power that the emperor possessed. The reverse type was equally universal, featuring the spirit (or genius) of the Romans. The introduction of a new type of government and a new system of coinage represents an attempt by Diocletian to return peace and security to Rome, after the previous century of constant warfare and uncertainty.\n\nDiocletian characterizes the emperor as an interchangeable authority figure by depicting him with a generalized image. He tries to emphasize unity amongst the Romans by featuring the spirit of Romans (Sutherland 254). The reverse types of coins of the late Empire emphasized general themes, and discontinued the more specific personifications depicted previously. The reverse types featured legends that proclaimed the glory of Rome, the glory of the army, victory against the \"barbarians\", the restoration of happy times, and the greatness of the emperor.\n\nThese general types persisted even after the adoption of Christianity as the state religion of the Roman Empire. Muted Christian imagery, such as standards that featured Christograms (the chi-rho monogram for Jesus Christ's name in Greek) were introduced, but with a few rare exceptions, there were no explicitly Christian themes. From the time of Constantine until the \"end\" of the Roman Empire, coins featured indistinguishable, idealized portraits and general proclamations of greatness.\n\nAlthough the denarius remained the backbone of the Roman economy from its introduction in 211 BC until it ceased to be normally minted in the middle of the third century, the purity and weight of the coin slowly, but inexorably, decreased. The problem of debasement in the Roman economy appears to be pervasive, although the severity of the debasement often paralleled the strength or weakness of the Empire. While it is not clear why debasement was such a common occurrence for the Romans, it's believed that it was caused by several factors, including a lack of precious metals and inadequacies in state finances. When introduced, the denarius contained nearly pure silver at a theoretical weight of approximately 4.5 grams.\n\nThe theoretical standard, although not usually met in practice, remained fairly stable throughout the Republic, with the notable exception of times of war. The large number of coins required to raise an army and pay for supplies often necessitated the debasement of the coinage. An example of this is the denarii that were struck by Mark Antony to pay his army during his battles against Octavian. These coins, slightly smaller in diameter than a normal denarius, were made of noticeably debased silver. The obverse features a galley and the name Antony, while the reverse features the name of the particular legion that each issue was intended for (hoard evidence shows that these coins remained in circulation over 200 years after they were minted, due to their lower silver content). The coinage of the Julio-Claudians remained stable at 4 grams of silver, until the debasement of Nero in 64, when the silver content was reduced to 3.8 grams, perhaps due to the cost of rebuilding the city after fire consumed a considerable portion of Rome.\n\nThe denarius continued to decline slowly in purity, with a notable reduction instituted by Septimius Severus. This was followed by the introduction of a double denarius piece, differentiated from the denarius by the radiate crown worn by the emperor. The coin is commonly called the antoninianus by numismatists after the emperor Caracalla, who introduced the coin in early in 215. Although nominally valued at two denarii, the antoninianus never contained more than 1.6 times the amount of silver of the denarius. The profit of minting a coin valued at two denarii, but weighing only about one and a half times as much is obvious; the reaction to these coins by the public is unknown. As the number of antoniniani minted increased, the number of denarii minted decreased, until the denarius ceased to be minted in significant quantities by the middle of the third century. Again, coinage saw its greatest debasement during times of war and uncertainty. The second half of the third century was rife with this war and uncertainty, and the silver content of the antonianus fell to only 2%, losing almost any appearance of being silver. During this time the aureus remained slightly more stable, before it too became smaller and more base (lower gold content and higher base metal content) before Diocletian's reform.\n\nThe decline in the silver content to the point where coins contained virtually no silver at all was countered by the monetary reform of Aurelian in 274. The standard for silver in the antonianus was set at twenty parts copper to one part silver, and the coins were noticeably marked as containing that amount (XXI in Latin or KA in Greek). Despite the reform of Aurelian, silver content continued to decline, until the monetary reform of Diocletian. In addition to establishing the tetrarchy, Diocletian devised the following system of denominations: an aureus struck at the standard of 60 to the pound, a new silver coin struck at the old Neronian standard known as the argenteus, and a new large bronze coin that contained two percent silver.\n\nDiocletian issued an Edict on Maximum Prices in 301, which attempted to establish the legal maximum prices that could be charged for goods and services. The attempt to establish maximum prices was an exercise in futility as maximum prices were impossible to enforce. The Edict was reckoned in terms of denarii, although no such coin had been struck for over 50 years (it is believed that the bronze \"follis\" was valued at 12.5 denarii). Like earlier reforms, this too eroded and was replaced by an uncertain coinage consisting mostly of gold and bronze. The exact relationship and denomination of the bronze issues of a variety of sizes is not known, and is believed to have fluctuated heavily on the market.\n\nThe exact reason that Roman coinage sustained constant debasement is not known, but the most common theories involve inflation, trade with India, which drained silver from the Mediterranean world, and inadequacies in state finances. It is clear from papyri that the pay of the Roman soldier increased from 900 sestertii a year under Augustus to 2000 sestertii a year under Septimius Severus and the price of grain more than tripled indicating that fall in real wages and a moderate inflation occurred during this time.\n\nAnother reason for debasement was lack of raw metal with which to produce coins. Italy itself contains no large or reliable mines for precious metals; therefore the precious metals for coinage had to be obtained elsewhere. The majority of the precious metals that Rome obtained during its period of expansion arrived in the form of war booty from defeated territories, and subsequent tribute and taxes by new-conquered lands. When Rome ceased to expand, the precious metals for coinage then came from newly mined silver, such as from Greece and Spain, and from melting older coins.\n\nWithout a constant influx of precious metals from an outside source, and with the expense of continual wars, it would seem reasonable that coins might be debased to increase the amount that the government could spend. A simpler possible explanation for the debasement of coinage is that it allowed the state to spend more than it had. By decreasing the amount of silver in its coins, Rome could produce more coins and \"stretch\" its budget. As time progressed, the trade deficit of the west, because of its buying of grain and other commodities, led to a currency drainage in Rome.\n\nEach row of the following table shows the value of the boldface coin in the first column in relation to the coins in the other columns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47033459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47033459", "title": "Shahsevan rug", "text": "Shahsevan rug\n\nShahsevan rug or Shahsevan Kilim is the Iranian Style, handmade by the Shahsevans in the Azerbaiajn region of Iran.\n"}
{"id": "35156860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35156860", "title": "Sotheby's Institute of Art", "text": "Sotheby's Institute of Art\n\nSotheby's Institute of Art is an institution of higher education devoted to the study of art and its markets with campuses in London, New York City and Los Angeles. The Institute offers full-time accredited master's degrees, as well as a range of postgraduate certificates, summer, semester and online courses, public programmes and executive education.\n\nThe Institute runs full-time master's degree programs in Art Business, Contemporary Art, Fine and Decorative Art, East Asian Art and Contemporary Design.\nAt the London campus, master's degrees are awarded by the University of Manchester a Russell Group university. In New York, master's degrees are granted through the Regents of the State of New York and accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design. In Los Angeles, the master's in Art Business and Arts Management degrees are awarded by Claremont Graduate University.\n\nSotheby's Institute London is situated in Bedford Square, Bloomsbury a well-preserved Georgian square with a private central garden, built between 1775 and 1783. The New York campus is located in the Art Deco landmark, the General Electric Building in midtown Manhattan and the institute in Los Angeles is located at Claremont Graduate University \n\nOriginally conceived as a training program for connoisseurship by Sotheby's auction house in 1969, Sotheby's Institute of Art aims to provide students with education on the business of art while exploring both the scholarly and practical sides of the art world.\n\nIn 1995, Sotheby's Institute of Art – London was granted the status of an Affiliated Institution of the University of Manchester's Department of Art History and Archaeology. At the end of 2002, Sotheby's sold its Institute to a US-based information and educational services firm, Cambridge Information Group (CIG), which retains the Sotheby's name. Sotheby's Institute continues to have strong links with Sotheby's auction house, having members on the Sotheby's Institute of Art - London advisory board and students having access to internships, auctions and exhibitions at Sotheby's.\n\nIn September 2006, the Institute broadened its course offerings in New York and in 2010 the New York Institute received degree-granting authority from the Regents of the State of New York. It has been an accredited member of the National Association of Schools of Art and Design since 1989. In 2013 Sotheby's Institute announced a partnership with the Peter F. Drucker and Masatoshi Ito Graduate School of Management at Claremont Graduate University, establishing a new master's degree in Art Business. Jonathan T.D. Neil is the Director of this Los Angeles campus. The Institute also began offering courses in mainland China in 2013 and in March 2014 announced a partnership with Tsinghua University to offer a six-week international field study programme with a professional certificate.\n\nThe libraries on the London, New York and Los Angeles campuses collectively contain\nmore than 3 million volumes, 350 databases, 70 print subscriptions, and 126 serials—all of which are academic in nature and related to art and the art market.\n\nSotheby's Institute of Art was founded by Sotheby's auction house in London in 1969. Initially, the Institute served as a training program for auction house employees and provided lessons in connoisseurship. Auction house experts and professionals often serve as Sotheby's Institute of Art faculty and guest speakers. \n\nNew York students can apply to Sotheby’s Floater Program (a six-month full-time, paid position at the auction house) or to the Sotheby’s Museum Network (a platform created by Sotheby’s in 2016 to connect audiences with cultural institutions and other art world employers). \n\nThe Kiddell Collection (also known as \"The Black Museum\") is an accumulation of fakes, forgeries, and reproductions, built up over a number of decades by Sotheby’s Auction House former Director, Jim Kiddell. It is now on permanent loan to Sotheby’s Institute of Art in London. Originally formed as a pedagogical handling tool for auction house specialists, the Collection today continues to support student enquiry. The Kiddell Collection is emblematic for the kind of in-situ access students have during their studies. \n\n"}
{"id": "1051143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1051143", "title": "Stanislaus Joyce", "text": "Stanislaus Joyce\n\nJohn Stanislaus Joyce (December 17, 1884 – June 16, 1955) was an Irish teacher, scholar, diarist and writer who lived for many years in Trieste. He was the younger brother of James Joyce. He was generally known as Stanislaus Joyce to distinguish him from his father, who shared the same name.\n\nBorn in County Dublin, Stanislaus was considered a \"whetstone\" by his more famous brother, who shared his ideas and his books with him. He was three years younger than James, and a constant boyhood companion. Stanislaus rebelled against his native Ireland as his brother had done, and, in 1905, he joined James's household in Trieste on Via Caterina, 1.\n\nJoyce worked as an English-language teacher in the Berlitz School alongside his brother. In 1903, he had already begun to keep a diary that recorded his own thoughts on philosophical and literary matter as well as those of his brother; he later resumed this diary in Trieste. This \"Book of Days\", as he called it, sheds light on James Joyce's life between the years 1906 and 1909. The diary indicates that Stanislaus, truly \"his brother's keeper\", was called upon to rescue his brother from financial difficulties time and time again. After 1908, he maintained his own address, although he may have lived with his brother again for a time in 1909. \nArrested as a subversive on December 28, 1914, at the beginning of World War I, he was interned by the Austrians at Katzenau, near Linz. After his release, he moved in with his sister Eileen's family. Stanislaus took his brother's teaching position at Trieste's Scuola Superiore di Commercio \"Revoltella\" in 1920; this school later became assimilated into the University of Trieste and he continued on as a non-tenured professor of English until his death. Due to his anti-Fascist views, Stanislaus moved to Florence sometime in 1941, where he may have been protected from the Germans by various wealthy Italian and American families.\n\nJoyce later published \"Recollections of James Joyce\" (1950); published after his death on June 16 (\"Bloomsday\") were \"My Brother's Keeper\" (1957), \"Dublin Diary\" (1962), and \"Complete Dublin Diary\" (1971). In the 1950s, Stanislaus had also assisted Richard Ellmann, his brother's biographer, with Ellmann's monumental \"James Joyce\" (1959). Hel also wrote an introduction for the translated version of Italo Svevo's \"As A Man Grows Older\".\n\nStanislaus often fought with his brother, as well as with his brother's wife Nora Barnacle, but they shared a common literary philosophy despite the fact that Stanislaus had received less advanced schooling than his brother. Stanislaus, however, channelled these instincts into sober academic study rather than wild flights of literary fancy. Of his brother, Stanislaus wrote, \n\nOn 13 August 1928 Stanislaus married Nelly Lichtensteiger. They had one son, James, who was born in February 1943.\n\nStanislaus died in the Free Territory of Trieste, and is buried in Trieste at the \"Via della Pace\" cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1068218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068218", "title": "Strategy guide", "text": "Strategy guide\n\nStrategy guides are instruction books that contain hints or complete solutions to specific video games. The line between strategy guides and walkthroughs is somewhat blurred, with the former often containing or being written around the latter. Strategy guides are often published in print, both in book form and also as articles within video game magazines. In cases of exceptionally popular game titles, guides may be sold through more mainstream publication channels, such as bookstores or even newsstands. Some publishers also sell E-Book versions on their websites.\n\nStrategy guides marketed as \"official\" are written by game distributors themselves or licensed to a specialty publishing house; Prima Games (a division of Random House) and Piggyback Interactive (a division of Simon & Schuster) specialise in writing official guides for various companies. There are also a number of publishers who make unlicensed, \"unofficial\" strategy guides, and many of today's mainstream publishers began by making such guides.\n\nThe contents of a strategy guide varies between game genres. Typically, the guides contain:\n\nIn order to be released at the same time as the game, commercial strategy guides are often based on a pre-release version of the game, rather than the final retail version; BradyGames' guide for \"\", for instance, included some misplaced item locations and a slightly different map, which made some directions impossible to follow. BradyGames rectifies such mistakes by offering free errata pages for download from their website.\n\nStrategy guides are sometimes published before the game itself is published. This can be risky because there is always the chance that a game will end up not being released. In January 2001, Prima published a guide () for the Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\", which was canceled late in development when Sega discontinued the console.\n\nOnline strategy guides and FAQs are hosted at sites such as GameFAQs and IGN FAQs, though much of this content is user generated and not published by the company. A number of other sites contain strategy guides, and videos in a number of niche areas, such as Role Playing Games or First Person Shooters. These sites may attract a more limited set of viewers, but can include more depth of content. Video-sharing sites such as YouTube have given rise to video walkthroughs using programs such as Fraps, which allows players to more easily mirror the strategies being described. These videos are re-posted to a number of sites.\n\nVideo game wikis are used as both strategy guides and documentation. Content is generated and edited completely by users. Wikis allow for information to updated if a developer introduced a new patch to the game. Wiki farms such as Fandom and Gamepedia host a large number of unofficial video game wikis while wikis can be integrated into the overall site such as IGN Wikis. While most wikis are considered unofficial and not supported by the developer, some developers may choose to do so for various reasons. These reasons may include resolving copyright issues and real world trading that may be found on unofficial wikis. For example, ArenaNet hosts an official wiki for \"Guild Wars\" and \"Guild Wars 2\", citing that \"it's often more complete and useful than the documentation that ArenaNet generates internally.\" Information on the wiki is integrated into the game, allowing players to access information from in game. Although the wiki is hosted by ArenaNet, the site is run and moderated by the community and contributions are released under GNU Free Document License (GDFL) similar to sites such as Wikipedia.\n\nAside from the quality of the content, the community aspect of fan walkthroughs is significant. One perspective argues that walkthroughs are shared stories for gamers and game fans. In creating walkthroughs, gamers actively create meaning for the games. This is similar to activities of traditional media such as books, films and television (e.g., Fan Fiction).\n\nThe increasing availability of free online FAQs and walkthroughs has taken away some of the demand for commercial strategy guides, although there is still a large market for them. Print guides often feature extensive picture-by-picture walkthroughs, maps, and game art, none of which is possible in the plain-text works hosted by prominent sites such as GameFAQs. Some newer sites allow strategy guides to be hosted in formats that allow pictures and videos, which further undercuts the advantages of print strategy guides.\n\nSome publishers have tried combining their printed books with the Internet. In 2000, the \"Final Fantasy IX Official Strategy Guide\" was published by BradyGames, but much of the information was contained on Square's PlayOnline website. This seemed like a good way to promote PlayOnline, while creating a guide that would have updatable content, but it was widely panned. Players saw no need of buying a book if a significant part of the content was online; and there was no point paying for online content from one site, if it was available for free on another site. As a result, Square abandoned the online strategy guide concept and released complete printed guides for future games.\n\nSome companies will, at times, make mistakes in the book about the game itself, such as stating that \"Character A\" has a relationship with \"Character B\", despite there being no relationship. In a strategy guide for \"Diddy Kong Racing\" they referred to characters with terms such as \"The Dinosaur\" and \"The Octopus\" instead of their names.\n\nGames journalist and guide writer Alan Emrich has severely criticized recent strategy guides for:\n\nThe faults, he says, are mainly caused by the game publishers' and guide publishers' haste to get their products on to the market; \"[previously] strategy guides were published after a game was released so that they could be accurate, even to the point of including information changes from late game 'patch' releases. The \"Master of Orion\" official strategy guide that Tom Hughes and I wrote is just that kind of book.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25259078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25259078", "title": "The Image Expedition", "text": "The Image Expedition\n\nThe Image Expedition is an American not-for-profit organization that produces multi-platform projects, which serve to photograph and document indigenous ways of life that are at risk of disappearing. Their projects use fine art photography, museum-quality exhibitions, digital video, websites, and explanatory text.\n\nThe Image Expedition was founded in 1990 by Daniel Lorenzetti, funded in part by a grant which Lorenzetti had recently been awarded by the South Florida Cultural Consortium's Visual Artist Fellowship. The editorial director of the Image Expedition is Daniel's wife, Linda Rice Lorenzetti, whose writing has been published in \"The Adventure of Food: True Stories of Eating Everything\" (Travelers' Tales, 1999), and \"The Birth of Coffee\" (Random House, 2001).\n\nThe Image Expedition states that they are committed to respecting and not imposing upon the cultures that they visit. Daniel Lorenzetti has said, \"As Americans, we can't pretend to understand many of these people's lives. We can only observe them.\"\n\nThe main goal of the organization is to create 'visual artifacts' — \"words and images that document ancient sites, unusual occupations and traditional ways of life, many disappearing in the digital age.\" Examples of visual artifacts preserved by the Image Expedition range from cricket sellers in Beijing's public markets, to the Mingangkabau in Indonesia — one of the last existing matrilineal cultures, to duckherders in Burma, to public human cremation in Bali, to name a few.\n\nThe Image Expedition's pilot project was a one-month trip to Ecuador in 1990, during which they documented diverse communities within the country, from the Andes mountains to the Amazon basin. In 1995 the team traveled to document rural areas of China, Yemen, Cambodia, and Burma. In 1996 the team spent two months photographing and gathering stories from Indonesia, specifically the islands of Bali, Java, Sumatra, Kalimatan and Sulawesi. All of the above research culminated in the publication of \"Collecting Visual Artifacts\", published by IX/Lighthouse Press in 1998.\n\nResearch for their second project, The Birth of Coffee, began in 1996. The aim of this project is to help the average coffee-drinker to be aware of the difficult process that laborers must endure in order to grow and produce coffee. A book of their findings from this expedition, \"The Birth of Coffee\", was published by Random House in 2001.\n\nThe Image Expedition's work has been made possible by donations from the following sponsors:\nContinental Airlines (provides tickets), Starwood/Sheraton hotels (provides accommodations), Magellan (supplied GPS device), Olympus America (supplies cameras), Ilford (supplies film and paper), Print File (donates photographic and archival supplies), Royal Robbins (supplies travel clothing), Imacon (supplies scanners), Winsor and Newton (supplies easels), Eagle Creek (supplies luggage), Lonely Planet (supplies travel guides), and Dell (supplies laptops).\n\nThe Image Expedition's photographs are in the permanent collections of the Victoria and Albert Museum (London, England), the Corcoran Gallery of Art (Washington, D.C.), and the Santa Barbara Museum of Art (Santa Barbara, CA).\n\n"}
{"id": "9354260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9354260", "title": "The Playwrights' Center", "text": "The Playwrights' Center\n\nThe Playwrights' Center is a non-profit theatre organization focused on both supporting playwrights and promoting new plays to production at theaters across the country. Its mission is to champion \"playwrights and new plays to build upon a living theater that demands new and innovative work.\" It is located in the Seward neighborhood of Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\nThe Playwrights' Center was founded in 1971 by a group of University of Minnesota undergraduate and graduate students, including Greg Almquist, Erik Brogger, Tom Dunn, Barbara Field, Gar Hildenbrand, and Jon Jackoway. These playwrights conceived of the Playwrights' Center (initially called the Minnesota Playwriting Laboratory) as a place where writers could have the opportunity to hear their work read aloud by professional actors, to hear comments and criticism from peers and audience members, and to develop their scripts with the help of artistic collaborators and working professionals. After becoming a not-for-profit company in 1973, the founders held a series of play readings, discussion series, and one-acts performed at various venues in the Twin Cities. The focus was on a continued playwriting conversation and aiding works-in-progress. These ideals continued to be the mainstay of the center as membership expanded. In 1979, the center moved into the Olivet Lutheran Church in south Minneapolis, which remains its home today.\n\nSince its founding, the Center has grown into a national resource for script development, and currently provides a range of services for writers at all stages of their careers. Jeremy Cohen serves as the producing artistic director, and the center is further supported by a full staff, an eighteen-member board of directors and a national advisory board of theater professionals. Members of the Playwrights' Center include nationally distinguished artists such as August Wilson, Lee Blessing, Ping Chong, Paula Vogel, and Jeffrey Hatcher, Suzan-Lori Parks, Jordan Harrison, Carlyle Brown, Craig Lucas, Melanie Marnich, and Kira Obolensky. The work of Center playwrights has won every major recognition the field offers, including two Pulitzers and the Tony Award, and has been seen nationwide on such stages as Yale Repertory Theatre, Woolly Mammoth, the Guthrie Theater, Goodman Theatre, and many others.\n\nRecent partners have included Tectonic Theater Project, Mixed Blood Theatre, Actors Theatre of Louisville, The Public Theater (NY), Oregon Shakespeare Festival, Ten Thousand Things Theater Company, Berkeley Rep, Marin Theatre Company, Seattle Repertory Theatre, and others. The Center also collaborates with local cultural institutions as the Walker Art Center and Minnesota History Center to develop theater that deepens their programming.\n\nThe Ruth Easton New Play Series is a uniquely intimate and accessible way to experience the thrill of raw new work. It gives selected Core Writers 20 hours with collaborators to workshop their script—to write, rewrite, experiment, and shape their work. Each year a handful of plays are selected from the Core Writers for development in The Ruth Easton Series. With funding from the Ruth Easton Lab, the plays receive a director, a designer who works with the playwright on one design element of his or her work, rehearsal time, and, if the playwright chooses, a two public readings of the play which are free for everyone. In the 2014-2015 Ruth Easton Series the names of the plays and playwrights as well as the dates of public readings are:\n\n\nThe Playwrights’ Center invites committed professional playwrights to apply for the Core Writer Program. Created in recognition of the particular needs of emerging and established writers, the program offers significant resources intended to further a playwright's career and is available to writers nationally.\n\nPlaywrights who have benefited from the Core Writer program include Christina Anderson, Trista Baldwin, Lee Blessing, Carlyle Brown, Lonnie Carter, Constance Congdon, Marcus Gardley, Jeffrey Hatcher, Sherry Kramer, Carson Kreitzer, Melanie Marnich, Winter Miller, Gregory Moss, Qui Nguyen, Kira Obolensky, and Elaine Romero.\n\nThe Core Writer program gives 25-30 of the most exciting playwrights from across the country the time and tools to develop new work for the stage. All Core Writers receive play development workshops at the Center, in collaboration with prominent directors, actors, dramaturgs, and designers. Selected work by Core Writers makes up our formal season of public readings: the PlayLabs Festival and the Ruth Easton New Play Series. Core Writers are also promoted by the Center and provided opportunities through an extensive network of colleges and universities, cultural institutions, and producing theaters.\n\nEach term is three years; Core Writers may re-apply for additional terms.\n\nSchools participating in the New Plays on Campus program may nominate students to become Playwrights’ Center Core Apprentices, a unique and high-profile opportunity. In partnership with the Kennedy Center American College Theater Festival, the Core Apprentice program provides student playwrights with such benefits as a year of mentorship with a professional playwright and a full workshop of a new play at the Playwrights’ Center. Five student playwrights are selected each year to be “Core Apprentices”.\n\nPlayLabs is an annual new play festival that occurs during a two-week span in October and is the largest development event of the Playwrights' Center's season. Each playwright is paired with a director, designer, and cast of actors. The selected plays receive 30 hours of rehearsal and two readings with allocated writing and revision time. All readings are free to the public. The festival extends beyond the readings including a Jerome Fellows showcase, a panel discussion, and a festival celebration. According to The Playwrights' Center 2005 annual report, seventy four percent of Playlabs playwrights go on to receive professional productions or further development opportunities.\n\n\nThe Many Voices Fellowship was created in 1994 in partnership with the Jerome Foundation in order to create a home for early-career playwrights of color who would provide the American theater scene with diverse voices and aesthetics. Since that time, the Many Voices program has provided 140 fellowships for some 100 emerging playwrights of color, offering class instruction, play development workshops, and mentoring opportunities.\n\n\n\nThe Playwrights Center offers private membership for an annual fee of $50. Member benefits include:\n\nWorkhaus Collective became The Playwrights' Center's company in residence in 2008. Workhaus Collective is a Twins-Cities based organizations of nationally recognized playwrights that produces the work of its members and aims to \"communicate directly with [their] audiences with shows that are adventurous and event-driven.\"\n\nThe Unit Collective is a community of playwrights in the Twin Cities committed to developing and promoting under-represented new work. The collective holds Minneapolis Madness, a monthly development event, at The Playwrights' Center to test new work. Their mission is to \"create Theatre/er that reflects who we are and the world in which we live. Through the quality of the shared experience we make the invisible audience visible.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "515983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515983", "title": "The Theory of Moral Sentiments", "text": "The Theory of Moral Sentiments\n\nThe Theory of Moral Sentiments is a 1759 book by Adam Smith. It provided the ethical, philosophical, psychological, and methodological underpinnings to Smith's later works, including \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776), \"Essays on Philosophical Subjects\" (1795), and \"Lectures on Justice, Police, Revenue, and Arms\" (1763) (first published in 1896).\n\nBroadly speaking, Smith followed the views of his mentor, Francis Hutcheson of the University of Glasgow, who divided moral philosophy into four parts: Ethics and Virtue; Private rights and Natural liberty; Familial rights (called Economics); and State and Individual rights (called Politics).\n\nHutcheson had abandoned the psychological view of moral philosophy, claiming that motives were too fickle to be used as a basis for a philosophical system. Instead, he hypothesised a dedicated \"sixth sense\" to explain morality. This idea, to be taken up by David Hume (see Hume's \"A Treatise of Human Nature\"), claimed that man is pleased by utility.\n\nSmith rejected his teacher's reliance on this special sense. Starting in about 1741, Smith set on the task of using Hume's \"experimental method\" (appealing to human experience) to replace the specific \"moral sense\" with a pluralistic approach to morality based on a multitude of psychological motives. \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\" begins with the following assertion:\n\nHow selfish soever man may be supposed, there are evidently some principles in his nature, which interest him in the fortunes of others, and render their happiness necessary to him, though he derives nothing from it, except the pleasure of seeing it. Of this kind is pity or compassion, the emotion we feel for the misery of others, when we either see it, or are made to conceive it in a very lively manner. That we often derive sorrow from the sorrows of others, is a matter of fact too obvious to require any instances to prove it; for this sentiment, like all the other original passions of human nature, is by no means confined to the virtuous or the humane, though they perhaps may feel it with the most exquisite sensibility. The greatest ruffian, the most hardened violator of the laws of society, is not altogether without it.\n\nSmith departed from the \"moral sense\" tradition of Shaftesbury, Hutcheson, and Hume, as the principle of sympathy takes the place of that organ. \"Sympathy\" was the term Smith used for the feeling of these moral sentiments. It was the feeling with the passions of others. It operated through a logic of mirroring, in which a spectator imaginatively reconstructed the experience of the person he watches:\n\nAs we have no immediate experience of what other men feel, we can form no idea of the manner in which they are affected, but by conceiving what we ourselves should feel in the like situation. Though our brother is on the rack, as long as we ourselves are at our ease, our senses will never inform us of what he suffers. They never did, and never can, carry us beyond our own person, and it is by the imagination only that we can form any conception of what are his sensations. Neither can that faculty help us to this any other way, than by representing to us what would be our own, if we were in his case. It is the impressions of our own senses only, not those of his, which our imaginations copy. By the imagination, we place ourselves in his situation.\n\nHowever, Smith rejected the idea that Man was capable of forming moral judgements beyond a limited sphere of activity, again centered around his own self-interest:\n\nThe administration of the great system of the universe ... the care of the universal happiness of all rational and sensible beings, is the business of God and not of man. To man is allotted a much humbler department, but one much more suitable to the weakness of his powers, and to the narrowness of his comprehension: the care of his own happiness, of that of his family, his friends, his country... But though we are ... endowed with a very strong desire of those ends, it has been entrusted to the slow and uncertain determinations of our reason to find out the proper means of bringing them about. Nature has directed us to the greater part of these by original and immediate instincts. Hunger, thirst, the passion which unites the two sexes, and the dread of pain, prompt us to apply those means for their own sakes, and without any consideration of their tendency to those beneficent ends which the great Director of nature intended to produce by them.\n\nThe rich only select from the heap what is most precious and agreeable. They consume little more than the poor, and in spite of their natural selfishness and rapacity, though they mean only their own conveniency, though the sole end which they propose from the labours of all the thousands whom they employ, be the gratification of their own vain and insatiable desires, they divide with the poor the produce of all their improvements. They are led by an invisible hand to make nearly the same distribution of the necessaries of life, which would have been made, had the earth been divided into equal portions among all its inhabitants, and thus without intending it, without knowing it, advance the interest of the society, and afford means to the multiplication of the species.\n\nIn a published lecture, Vernon L. Smith further argued that \"Theory of Moral Sentiments\" and \"Wealth of Nations\" together encompassed:\n\"one behavioral axiom, 'the propensity to truck, barter, and exchange one thing for another,' where the objects of trade I will interpret to include not only goods, but also gifts, assistance, and favors out of sympathy ... whether it is goods or favors that are exchanged, they bestow gains from trade that humans seek relentlessly in all social transactions. Thus, Adam Smith's single axiom, broadly interpreted ... is sufficient to characterize a major portion of the human social and cultural enterprise. It explains why human nature appears to be simultaneously self-regarding and other-regarding.\"\nConsists of 7 parts:\n\nPart one of \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\" consists of three sections:\n\nSection 1 consists of 5 chapters:\n\nAccording to Smith people have a natural tendency to care about the well-being of others for no other reason than the pleasure one gets from seeing them happy. He calls this sympathy, defining it \"our fellow-feeling with any passion whatsoever\" (p. 5). He argues that this occurs under either of two conditions:\n\nAlthough this is apparently true, he follows to argue that this tendency lies even in \"the greatest ruffian, the most hardened violator of the laws of society\" (p. 2).\n\nSmith also proposes several variables that can moderate the extent of sympathy, noting that the \"situation\" that is the cause of the passion is a large determinant of our response:\nAn important point put forth by Smith is that the degree to which we sympathize, or \"tremble and shudder at the thought of what he feels\", is proportional to the degree of vividness in our observation or the description of the event.\nWhen observing the anger of another person, for example, we are unlikely to sympathize with this person because we \"are unacquainted with his provocation\" and as a result cannot imagine what it is like to feel what he feels. Further, since we can see the \"fear and resentment\" of those who are the targets of the person's anger we are likely to sympathize and take side with them. Thus, sympathetic responses are often conditional on—or their magnitude is determined by—the causes of the emotion in the person being sympathized with.\nSpecifically, emotions such as joy and grief tell us about the \"good or bad fortune\" of the person we are observing them in, whereas anger tells us about the bad fortune with respect to another person. It is the difference between intrapersonal emotions, such as joy and grief, and interpersonal emotions, such as anger, that causes the difference in sympathy, according to Smith. That is, intrapersonal emotions trigger at least some sympathy without the need for context whereas interpersonal emotions are dependent on context.\n\nHe also proposes a natural 'motor' response to seeing the actions of others: If we see a knife hacking off a person's leg we wince away, if we see someone dance we move in the same ways, we feel the injuries of others as if we had them ourselves.\n\nSmith makes clear that we sympathize not only with the misery of others but also the joy; he states that observing an emotional state through the \"looks and gestures\" in another person is enough to initiate that emotional state in ourselves. Furthermore, we are generally insensitive to the \"real\" situation of the other person; we are instead sensitive to how we would feel ourselves if we were in the situation of the other person. For example, a mother with a suffering baby feels \"the most complete image of misery and distress\" while the child merely feels \"the uneasiness of the present instant\" (p. 8).\n\nSmith continues by arguing that people feel pleasure from the presence of \"others\" with the same emotions as one's \"self\", and displeasure in the presence of those with \"contrary\" emotions. Smith argues that this pleasure is not the result of self-interest: that others are more likely to assist oneself if they are in a similar emotional state. Smith also makes the case that pleasure from mutual sympathy is not derived merely from a heightening of the original felt emotion amplified by the other person. Smith further notes that people get more pleasure from the mutual sympathy of negative emotions than positive emotions; we feel \"more anxious to communicate to our friends\" (p. 13) our negative emotions.\n\nSmith proposes that mutual sympathy heightens the original emotion and \"disburdens\" the person of sorrow. This is a 'relief' model of mutual sympathy, where mutual sympathy heightens the sorrow but also produces pleasure from relief \"because the sweetness of his sympathy more than compensates the bitterness of that sorrow\" (p. 14). In contrast, mocking or joking about their sorrow is the \"cruelest insult\" one can inflict on another person:\n\nTo seem to not be affected by the joy of our companions is but want of politeness; but to not wear a serious countentance when they tell us their afflictions, is real and gross inhumanity (p. 14).\n\nHe makes clear that mutual sympathy of negative emotions is a necessary condition for friendship, whereas mutual sympathy of positive emotions is desirable but not required. This is due to the \"healing consolation of mutual sympathy\" that a friend is 'required' to provide in response to \"grief and resentment\", as if not doing so would be akin to a failure to help the physically \"wounded\".\n\nNot only do we get pleasure from the sympathy of others, but we also obtain pleasure from being able to successfully sympathize with others, and discomfort from failing to do so. Sympathizing is pleasurable, failing to sympathize is aversive. Smith also makes the case that failing to sympathize with another person may not be aversive to ourselves but we may find the emotion of the other person unfounded and blame them, as when another person experiences great happiness or sadness in response to an event that we think should not warrant such a response.\n\nSmith presents the argument that approval or disapproval of the feelings of others is completely determined by whether we sympathize or fail to sympathize with their emotions. Specifically, if we sympathize with the feelings of another we judge that their feelings are just, and if we do not sympathize we judge that their feelings are unjust.\n\nThis holds in matters of opinion also, as Smith flatly states that we judge the opinions of others as correct or incorrect merely by determining whether they agree with our own opinions. Smith also cites a few examples where our judgment is not in line with our emotions and sympathy, as when we judge the sorrow of a stranger who has lost her mother as being justified even though we know nothing about the stranger and do not sympathize ourselves. However, according to Smith these non-emotional judgments are not independent from sympathy in that although we do not feel sympathy we do recognize that sympathy would be appropriate and lead us to this judgment and thus deem the judgment as correct.\n\n\"Utopian\" or Ideal Political Systems: ”The man of system . . . is apt to be very wise in his own conceit; and is often so enamoured with the supposed beauty of his own ideal plan of government, that he cannot suffer the smallest deviation from any part of it.\nHe goes on to establish it completely and in all its parts, without any regard either to the great interests, or to the strong prejudices which may oppose it.\nHe seems to imagine that he can arrange the different members of a great society with as much ease as the hand arranges the different pieces upon a chess-board.\nHe does not consider that the pieces upon the chess-board have no other principle of motion besides that which the hand impresses upon them; but that, in the great chess-board of human society, every single piece has a principle of motion of its own, altogether different from that which the legislature might choose to impress upon it.\nIf those two principles coincide and act in the same direction, the game of human society will go on easily and harmoniously, and is very likely to be happy and successful.\nIf they are opposite or different, the game will go on miserably, and the society must be at all times in the highest degree of disorder.”\n\n— Adam Smith, \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\", 1759\n\nNext, Smith puts forth that not only are the consequences of one's actions judged and used to determine whether one is just or unjust in committing them, but also whether one's sentiments justified the action that brought about the consequences. Thus, sympathy plays a role in determining judgments of the actions of others in that if we sympathize with the affections that brought about the action we are more likely to judge the action as just, and vice versa:\nIf upon bringing the case home to our own breast we find that the sentiments which it gives occasion to, coincide and tally with our own, we necessarily approve of them as proportioned and suitable to their objects; if otherwise, we necessarily disapprove of them, as extravagant and out of proportion (p. 20).\nSmith delineates two conditions under which we judge the \"propriety or impropriety of the sentiments of another person\":\n\nWhen one's sentiments coincide with another person's when the object is considered alone, then we judge that their sentiment is justified. Smith lists objects that are in one of two domains: science and taste. Smith argues that sympathy does not play a role in judgments of these objects; differences in judgment arise only due to difference in attention or mental acuity between people. When the judgment of another person agrees with us on these types of objects it is not notable; however, when another person's judgment differs from us, we assume that they have some special ability to discern characteristics of the object we have not already noticed, and thus view their judgment with special approbation called \"admiration\".\n\nSmith continues by noting that we assign value to judgments not based on usefulness (utility) but on similarity to our own judgment, and we attribute to those judgments which are in line with our own the qualities of correctness or truth in science, and justness or delicateness in taste. Thus, the utility of a judgment is \"plainly an afterthought\" and \"not what first recommends them to our approbation\" (p. 24).\n\nOf objects that fall into the second category, such as the misfortune of oneself or another person, Smith argues that there is no common starting point for judgment but are vastly more important in maintaining social relations. Judgments of the first kind are irrelevant as long as one is able to share a sympathetic sentiment with another person; people may converse in total disagreement about objects of the first kind as long as each person appreciates the sentiments of the other to a reasonable degree. However, people become intolerable to each other when they have no feeling or sympathy for the misfortunes or resentment of the other: \"You are confounded at my violence and passion, and I am enraged at your cold insensibility and want of feelings\" (p. 26).\n\nAnother important point Smith makes is that our sympathy will never reach the degree or \"violence\" of the person who experiences it, as our own \"safety\" and comfort as well as separation from the offending object constantly \"intrude\" on our efforts to induce a sympathetic state in ourselves. Thus, sympathy is never enough, as the \"sole consolation\" for the sufferer is \"to see the emotions of their hearts, in every respect, beat time to his own, in the violent and disagreeable passions\" (p. 28). Therefore, the original sufferer is likely to dampen her feelings to be in \"concord\" with the degree of sentiment expressible by the other person, who feels only due to the ability of one's imagination. It is this which is \"sufficient for the harmony of society\" (p. 28). Not only does the person dampen her expression of suffering for the purpose of sympathizing, but she also takes the perspective of the other person who is not suffering, thus slowly changing her perspective and allowing the calmness of the other person and reduction of violence of the sentiment to improve her spirits.\n\nAs a friend is likely to engage in more sympathy than a stranger, a friend actually slows the reduction in our sorrows because we do not temper our feelings out of sympathizing with the perspective of the friend to the degree that we reduce our sentiments in the presence of acquaintances, or a group of acquaintances. This gradual tempering of our sorrows from the repeated perspective-taking of someone in a more calm state make \"society and conversation...the most powerful remedies for restoring the mind to its tranquility\" (p. 29).\n\nSmith starts to use an important new distinction in this section and late in the previous section:\n\nThese two people have two different sets of virtues. The person principally concerned, in \"bring[ing] down emotions to what the spectator can go along with\" (p. 30), demonstrates \"self-denial\" and \"self-government\" whereas the spectator displays \"the candid condescension and indulgent humanity\" of \"enter[ing]into the sentiments of the person principally concerned.\"\n\nSmith returns to anger and how we find \"detestable...the insolence and brutality\" of the person principally concerned but \"admire...the indignation which they naturally call forth in that of the impartial spectator\" (p. 32). Smith concludes that the \"perfection\" of human nature is this mutual sympathy, or \"love our neighbor as we love ourself\" by \"feeling much for others and little for ourself\" and to indulge in \"benevolent affections\" (p. 32). Smith makes clear that it is this ability to \"self-command\" our \"ungovernable passions\" through sympathizing with others that is virtuous.\n\nSmith further distinguishes between virtue and propriety:\n\n\nSmith starts off by noting that the spectator can sympathize only with passions of medium \"pitch\". However, this medium level at which the spectator can sympathize depends on what \"passion\" or emotion is being expressed; with some emotions even the most justified expression of cannot be tolerated at a high level of fervor, at others sympathy in the spectator is not bounded by magnitude of expression even though the emotion is not as well justified. Again, Smith emphasizes that specific passions will be considered appropriate or inappropriate to varying degrees depending on the degree to which the spectator is able to sympathize, and that it is the purpose of this section to specify which passions evoke sympathy and which do not and therefore which are deemed appropriate and not appropriate.\n\nSince it is not possible to sympathize with bodily states or \"appetites which take their origin in the body\" it is improper to display them to others, according to Smith. One example is \"eating voraciously\" when hungry, as the impartial spectator can sympathize a little bit if there is a vivid description and good cause for this hunger, but not to a great extent as hunger itself cannot be induced from mere description. Smith also includes sex as a passion of the body that is considered indecent in the expression of others, although he does make note that to fail to treat a woman with more \"gaiety, pleasantry, and attention\" would also be improper of a man (p. 39). To express pain is also considered unbecoming.\n\nSmith believes the cause of lack of sympathy for these bodily passions is that \"we cannot enter into them\" ourselves (p. 40). Temperance, by Smith's account, is to have control over bodily passions.\n\nOn the contrary, passions of the imagination, such as loss of love or ambition, are easy to sympathize with because our imagination can conform to the shape of the sufferer, whereas our body cannot do such a thing to the body of the sufferer. Pain is fleeting and the harm only lasts as long as the violence is inflicted, whereas an insult lasts to harm for longer duration because our \"imagination\" keeps mulling it over. Likewise, bodily pain that induces fear, such as a cut, wound or fracture, evoke sympathy because of the danger that they imply for ourselves; that is, sympathy is activated chiefly through \"imagining\" what it would be like for us.\n\nPassions which \"take their origins from a particular turn or habit of the imagination\" are \"little sympathized with\". These include love, as we are unlikely to enter into our own feeling of love in response to that of another person and thus unlikely to sympathize. He further states that love is \"always laughed at, because we cannot enter into it\" ourselves.\n\nInstead of inspiring love in ourselves, and thus sympathy, love makes the impartial spectator sensitive to the situation and emotions that may arise from the gain or loss of love. Again this is because it is easy to imagine \"hoping\" for love or \"dreading\" loss of love but not the actual experience of it, and that the \"happy passion, upon this account, interests us much less than the fearful and the melancholy\" of losing happiness (p. 49). Thus, love inspires sympathy for not for love itself but for the anticipation of emotions from gaining or losing it.\n\nSmith, however, finds love \"ridiculous\" but \"not naturally odious\" (p. 50). Thus, we sympathize with the \"humaneness, generosity, kindness, friendship, and esteem\" (p. 50) of love. However, as these secondary emotions are excessive in love, one should not express them but in moderate tones according to Smith, as:\n\nAll these are objects which we cannot expect should interest our companions in the same degree in which they interest us.\n\nFailing to do so makes bad company, and therefore those with specific interests and \"love\" of hobbies should keep their passions to those with kindred spirits (\"A philosopher is company to a philosopher only\" (p. 51)) or to themselves.\n\nSmith talks of hatred and resentment next, as \"unsocial passions.\" According to Smith these are passions of imagination, but sympathy is only likely to be evoked in the impartial spectator when they are expressed in moderate tones. Because these passions regard two people, namely the offended (resentful or angry person) and the offender, our sympathies are naturally drawn between these two. Specifically, although we sympathize with the offended person, we fear that the offended person may do harm to the offender, and thus also fear for and sympathize with the danger that faces the offender.\n\nThe impartial spectator sympathizes with the offended person in a manner, as emphasized previously, such that the greatest sympathy occurs when the offended person expresses anger or resentment in a temperate manner. Specifically, if the offended person seems just and temperate in coping with the offense, then this magnifies the misdeed done to the offended in the mind of the spectator, increasing sympathy. Although excess anger does not beget sympathy, neither does too little anger, as this may signal fear or uncaring on the part of the offended. This lack of response is just as despicable to the impartial spectator as is the excesses of anger.\n\nHowever, in general, any expression of anger is improper in the presence of others. This is because the \"immediate effects [of anger] are disagreeable\" just as the knives of surgery are disagreeable for art, as the immediate effect of surgery is unpleasant even though long-term effect is justified. Likewise, even when anger is justly provoked, it is disagreeable. According to Smith, this explains why we reserve sympathy until we know the cause of the anger or resentment, since, if the emotion is not justified by the action of another person, then the immediate disagreeableness and threat to the other person (and by sympathy to ourselves) overwhelm any sympathy that the spectator may have for the offended. In response to expressions of anger, hatred, or resentment, it is likely that the impartial spectator will not feel anger in sympathy with the offended but instead anger \"toward\" the offended for expressing such an aversive. Smith believes that there is some form of natural optimality to the aversiveness of these emotions, as it reduces the propagation of ill will among people, and thus increases the probability of functional societies.\n\nSmith also puts forth that anger, hatred, and resentment are disagreeable to the offended mostly because of the idea of being offended rather than the actual offense itself. He remarks that we are likely able to do without what was taken from us, but it is the imagination which angers us at the thought of having something taken. Smith closes this section by remarking that the impartial spectator will not sympathize with us unless we are willing to endure harms, with the goal of maintaining positive social relations and humanity, with equanimity, as long as it does not put us in a situation of being \"exposed to perpetual insults\" (p. 59). It is only \"with reluctance, from necessity, and in consequence of great and repeated provocations\" (p. 60) that we should take revenge on others. Smith makes clear that we should take very good care to not act on the passions of anger, hatred, resentment, for purely social reasons, and instead imagine what the impartial spectator would deem appropriate, and base our action \"solely\" on a cold calculation.\n\nThe social emotions such as \"generosity, humanity, kindness, compassion, mutual friendship and esteem\" are considered overwhelmingly with approbation by the impartial spectator. The agreeableness of the \"benevolent\" sentiments leads to full sympathy on the part of the spectator with both the person concerned and the object of these emotions and are not felt as aversive to the spectator if they are in excess.\n\nThe final set of passions, or \"selfish passions\", are grief and joy, which Smith considers to be not so aversive as the unsocial passions of anger and resentment, but not so benevolent as the social passions such as generosity and humanity. Smith makes clear in this passage that the impartial spectator is unsympathetic to the unsocial emotions because they put the offended and the offender in opposition to each other, sympathetic to the social emotions because they join the lover and beloved in unison, and feels somewhere in between with the selfish passions as they are either good or bad for only one person and are not disagreeable but not so magnificent as the social emotions.\n\nOf grief and joy, Smith notes that small joys and great grief are assured to be returned with sympathy from the impartial spectator, but not other degrees of these emotions. Great joy is likely to be met with envy, so modesty is prudent for someone who has come upon great fortune or else suffer the consequences of envy and disapprobation. This is appropriate as the spectator appreciates the lucky individual's \"sympathy with our envy and aversion to his happiness\" especially because this shows concern for the inability of the spectator to reciprocate the sympathy toward the happiness of the lucky individual. According to Smith, this modesty wears on the sympathy of both the lucky individual and the old friends of the lucky individual and they soon part ways; likewise, the lucky individual may acquire new friends of higher rank to whom he must also be modest, apologizing for the \"mortification\" of now being their equal:\n\nHe generally grows weary too soon, and is provoked, by the sullen and suspicious pride of the one, and by the saucy contempt of the other, to treat the first with neglect, and the second with petulance, till at last he grows habitually insolent, and forfeits the esteem of them all... those sudden changes of fortune seldom contribute much to happiness (p. 66).\n\nThe solution is to ascend social rank by gradual steps, with the path cleared for one by approbation \"before\" one takes the next step, giving people time to adjust, and thus avoiding any \"jealousy in those he overtakes, or any envy in those he leaves behind\" (p. 66).\n\nSmall joys of everyday life are met with sympathy and approbation according to Smith. These \"frivolous nothings which fill up the void of human life\" (p. 67) divert attention and help us forget problems, reconciling us as with a lost friend.\n\nThe opposite is true for grief, with small grief triggering no sympathy in the impartial spectator, but large grief with much sympathy. Small griefs are likely, and appropriately, turned into joke and mockery by the sufferer, as the sufferer knows how complaining about small grievances to the impartial spectator will evoke ridicule in the heart of the spectator, and thus the sufferer sympathizes with this, mocking himself to some degree.\n\nOf the effects of prosperity and adversity upon the judgment of mankind with regard to the propriety of action; and why it is more easy to obtain their approbation in the one state than in the other\n\nSmith argues that two principles, custom and fashion, pervasively influence judgment. These are based on the modern psychological concept of associativity: Stimuli presented closely in time or space become mentally linked over time and repeated exposure. In Smith's own words:\n\nWhen two objects have frequently been seen together, the imagination requires a habit of passing easily from one to the other. If the first is to appear, we lay our account that the second is to follow. Of their own accord they put us in mind of one another, and the attention glides easily along them. (p. 1)\n\nRegarding custom, Smith argues that approbation occurs when stimuli are presented according to how one is accustomed to viewing them and disapprobation occurs when they are presented in a way that one is not accustomed to. Thus, Smith argues for social relativity of judgment meaning that beauty and correctness are determined more by what one has previously been exposed to rather than an absolute principle. Although Smith places greater weight on this social determination he does not discount absolute principles completely, instead he argues that evaluations are rarely inconsistent with custom, therefore giving greater weight to customs than absolutes:\n\nI cannot, however, be induced to believe that our sense of external beauty is founded altogether on custom...But though I cannot admit that custom is the sole principle of beauty, yet I can so far allow the truth of this ingenious system as to grant, that there is scarce any one external form to please, if quite contrary to custom...(p.14-15).\nSmith continues by arguing that fashion is a particular \"species\" of custom. Fashion is specifically the association of stimuli with people of high rank, for example, a certain type of clothes with a notable person such as a king or a renowned artist. This is because the \"graceful, easy, and commanding manners of the great\" (p. 3) person are frequently associated with the other aspects of the person of high rank (e.g., clothes, manners), thus bestowing upon the other aspects the \"graceful\" quality of the person. In this way objects become fashionable. Smith includes not only clothes and furniture in the sphere of fashion, but also taste, music, poetry, architecture, and physical beauty.\n\nSmith also points out that people should be relatively reluctant to change styles from what they are accustomed to even if a new style is equal to or slightly better than current fashion: \"A man would be ridiculous who should appear in public with a suit of clothes quite different from those which are commonly worn, though the new dress be ever so graceful or convenient\" (p. 7).\n\nPhysical beauty, according to Smith, is also determined by the principle of custom. He argues that each \"class\" of things has a \"peculiar conformation which is approved of\" and that the beauty of each member of a class is determined by the extent to which it has the most \"usual\" manifestation of that \"conformation\":\n\nThus, in the human form, the beauty of each feature lies in a certain middle, equally removed from a variety of other forms that are ugly. (p. 10-11).\nSmith argues that the influence of custom is reduced in the sphere of moral judgment. Specifically, he argues that there are \"bad\" things that no custom can bring approbation to:\n\nBut the characters and conduct of a Nero, or a Claudius, are what no custom will ever reconcile us to, what no fashion will ever render agreeable; but the one will always be the object of dread and hatred; the other of scorn and derision. (p. 15-16).\n\nSmith further argues for a \"natural\" right and wrong, and that custom amplifies the moral sentiments when one's customs are consistent with nature, but dampens moral sentiments when one's customs are inconsistent with nature.\n\nFashion also has an effect on moral sentiment. The vices of people of high rank, such as the licentiousness of Charles VIII, are associated with the \"freedom and independency, with frankness, generosity, humanity, and politeness\" of the \"superiors\" and thus the vices are endued with these characteristics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368995", "title": "Tincture (heraldry)", "text": "Tincture (heraldry)\n\nTinctures constitute the limited palette of colours and patterns used in heraldry. The need to define, depict, and correctly blazon the various tinctures is one of the most important aspects of heraldic art and design.\n\nThe use of these tinctures dates back to the formative period of European heraldry, in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, but the range of tinctures and the manner of depicting and describing them has evolved over time, as new variations and practices have developed.\n\nThe basic scheme and rules of applying the heraldic tinctures dates to the formative period of heraldry, during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. By the time of the earliest coloured heraldic illustrations, in the mid-thirteenth century, the use of two metals, five colours, and two furs had become standardized, and ever since that time, the great majority of heraldic art has employed these nine tinctures.\n\nOver time, variations on these basic tinctures were developed, particularly with respect to the furs, although the authorities differ as to whether these should be considered separate tinctures, or merely varieties of existing ones. Two additional colours appeared, and were generally accepted by heraldic writers, although they remained scarce, and were eventually termed \"stains\", from the belief that they were used to signify some dishonour on the part of the bearer. The practice of depicting certain charges as they appear in nature, termed \"proper\", was established by the seventeenth century. Other colours have appeared occasionally since the eighteenth century, especially in continental heraldry, but their use is infrequent, and they have never been regarded as particularly heraldic, or numbered among the tinctures that form the basis of heraldic design.\n\nThe frequency with which different tinctures have been used over time has been much observed, but little studied. There are, however, some general trends of note, both with respect to the passage of time, and noted preferences from one region to another.\n\nIn medieval heraldry, gules was by far the most common tincture, followed by the metals argent and or, at least one of which necessarily appeared on the majority of arms (see below). Among the colours, sable was the second most common, followed by azure; vert, although present from the formative period of heraldic design, was relatively scarce. Over time, the popularity of azure increased above that of sable, while gules, still the most common, became less dominant. A survey of French arms granted during the seventeenth century reveals a distinct split between the trends for the arms granted to nobles and commoners. Among nobles, gules remained the most common tincture, closely followed by or, then by argent and azure at nearly equal levels; sable was a very distant fifth choice, while vert remained scarce. Among commoners, azure was easily the most common tincture, followed by or, and only then by gules, argent, and sable, which was used more by commoners than among the nobility; vert, however, was even scarcer in common arms. Purpure is so scarce in French heraldry that some authorities do not regard it as a \"real heraldic tincture\".\n\nOn the whole, French heraldry is known for its use of azure and or, while English heraldry is characterized by heavy use of gules and argent, and unlike French heraldry, it has always made regular use of vert, and occasional, if not extensive, use of purpure. German heraldry is known for its extensive use of or and sable. German and Nordic heraldry rarely make use of purpure or ermine, except in mantling, pavilions, and the lining of crowns and caps. In fact, furs occur infrequently in German and Nordic heraldry.\nThe colours and patterns of the heraldic palette are divided into three groups, usually known as \"metals\", \"colours\", and \"furs\".\n\nThe metals are \"or\" and \"argent\", representing gold and silver, respectively, although in practice they are often depicted as yellow and white.\n\nOr derives its name from the Latin \"aurum\", \"gold\". It may be depicted using either yellow or metallic gold, at the artist's discretion; \"yellow\" has no separate existence in heraldry, and is never used to represent any tincture other than or.\n\nArgent is similarly derived from the Latin \"argentum\", \"silver\". Although sometimes depicted as metallic silver or faint grey, it is more often represented by white, in part because of the tendency for silver paint to oxidize and darken over time, and in part because of the pleasing effect of white against a contrasting colour. Notwithstanding the widespread use of white for argent, some heraldic authorities have suggested the existence of white as a distinct heraldic colour.\n\nFive colours have been recognized since the earliest days of heraldry. These are: \"gules\", or red; \"sable\", or black; \"azure\", or blue; \"vert\", or green; and \"purpure\", or purple.\n\nGules is of uncertain derivation; outside of the heraldic context, the modern French word refers to the mouth of an animal.\n\nSable is named for a type of marten, known for its dark, luxuriant fur.\n\nAzure comes through the Arabic \"lāzaward\", from the Persian \"lāžavard\"\nboth referring to the blue mineral lapis lazuli, used to produce blue pigments.\n\nVert is from Latin \"viridis\", \"green\". The alternative name in French, \"sinople\", is derived from the ancient city of Sinope in Asia Minor, which was famous for its pigments.\n\nPurpure is from Latin \"purpura\", in turn from Greek \"porphyra\", the dye known as Tyrian purple. This expensive dye, known from antiquity, produced a much redder purple than the modern heraldic colour; and in fact earlier depictions of purpure are far redder than recent ones. As a heraldic colour, purpure may have originated as a variation of gules.\n\nTwo more were eventually acknowledged by most heraldic authorities: \"sanguine\" or \"murrey\", a dark red or mulberry colour, and \"tenné\", an orange or dark yellow to brownish colour. These were termed \"stains\" by some of the more influential heraldic writers, and supposed to represent some sort of dishonour on the part of the bearer; but in fact there is no evidence that they were ever so employed, and they probably originated as mere variations of existing colours. Nevertheless, the belief that they represented stains upon the honour of an armiger served to prevent them receiving widespread use, and it is only in recent times that they have begun to appear on a regular basis.\n\nSanguine or Murrey, from Latin \"sanguineus\", \"blood red\", and Greek \"morum\", \"mulberry\", one of the two so-called \"stains\" in British armory, is a dark red or mulberry colour, between gules and purpure in hue. It probably originated as a mere variation of one of those two colours, and may in fact represent the original hue of \"purpure\", which is now treated as a much bluer colour than when it first appeared in heraldry. Although long shunned in the belief that it represented some dishonour on the part of the bearer, it has found some use in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.\n\nTenné or tenny, from Latin \"tannare\", \"to tan\", is the second of the so-called \"stains\". It is most often depicted as orange, but sometimes as tawny yellow or brown. In earlier times it was occasionally used in continental heraldry, but in England largely confined to livery.\n\nThe use of heraldic furs alongside the metals and colours dates to the beginning of the art. In this earliest period, there were only two furs, ermine and vair. Ermine represents the fur of the stoat, a type of weasel, in its white winter coat, when it is called an ermine. Vair represents the winter coat of the red squirrel, which is blue-grey above and white below. These furs were commonly used to line the cloaks and robes of the nobility. Both ermine and vair give the appearance of being a combination of metal and colour, but in heraldic convention they are considered a separate class of tincture that is neither metal nor colour. Over time, several variations of ermine and vair have appeared, together with three additional furs typically encountered in continental heraldry, known as \"plumeté\", \"papelonné\", and \"kürsch\", the origins of which are more mysterious, but which probably began as variations of vair.\n\nErmine is normally depicted as a white field powdered with black spots, known as \"ermine spots\", representing the ermine's black tail. The use of white instead of silver is normal, even when silver is available, since this is how the fur naturally appears; but occasionally silver is used to depict ermine. Traditionally, ermine has been used to line the cloaks and robes of various nobles, as well as the \"chapeaux\" and caps of maintenance worn by peers, and used to line crowns; these appear beneath many crests in place of a torse.\n\nThere is considerable variation in the shape of ermine spots; in the oldest depictions, they were drawn realistically, as long, tapering points; in modern times they are typically drawn as arrowheads, usually topped by three small dots; but as with other details, the form used is left to the heraldic artist. Ermine spots are considered part of the tincture known as ermine, rather than charges; but the same shape can also be used as a charge upon other tinctures. In English heraldry, a single ermine spot has been used as a mark of difference when, by royal licence, one person assumes the names and arms of another, in the absence of any blood relationship. Ermine spots are normally depicted upright, except on a bend, when they are depicted bendwise.\n\nBritish armory recognizes three variations of ermine. A black field powdered with white ermine spots is termed \"ermines\" ; a gold field with black ermine spots is \"erminois\", and a black field with gold ermine spots is \"pean\". These are not regarded as separate furs, but merely variations of ermine. Neither erminois nor pean are known by distinctive names outside of British armory; instead they are regarded as a field semé of ermine spots. In French heraldry, erminois would be blazoned \"d'Or, semé d'hermines de sable\", while pean would be \"de Sable, semé d'hermines d'or\". Especially in continental heraldry, a field of any tincture may be semé of ermine spots, producing a pattern indistinguishable from ermine, except by virtue of the tinctures used; but these should be treated as other fields semé, rather than heraldic furs.\n\nVair derives its name from Latin \"varius\", \"variegated\". It is usually depicted as a series of alternating shapes, conventionally known as panes or \"vair bells\", of argent and azure, arranged in horizontal rows, so that the panes of one tincture form the upper part of the row, while those of the opposite tincture are on the bottom. Succeeding rows are staggered, so that the bases of the panes making up each row are opposite those of the other tincture in the rows above and below. As with ermine, the argent panes may be depicted as either white or silver; silver is used more often with vair than with ermine, but the natural fur is white. In the earliest period of heraldry, vair was depicted by alternating straight and wavy or nebuly lines; today this form is known as \"vair ondé\" or \"vair ancien\" (Ger. \"Wolkenfeh\", \"cloud vair\"). Through a series of intermediate forms, the panes evolved their modern shape, consisting entirely of straight lines and sharp angles; but the heraldic artist is normally at liberty to use any of these forms.\n\nTraditionally vair was produced in three sizes, and each size came to be depicted in armory. A field consisting of only three rows, representing the largest size, was termed \"gros vair\" or \"beffroi\" (from the same root as the English word \"belfry\"); vair of four rows was simply \"vair\", while if there were six rows, representing the smallest size, it was \"menu-vair\" (whence the English word \"miniver\"). This distinction is not generally observed in English heraldry, and is not strictly observed in continental heraldry, although in French heraldry it is customary to specify the number of rows if there are more than four.\n\nThere are several varieties of vair consisting entirely of alternate arrangements of the rows. The most familiar is \"counter-vair\" (Fr. \"contre vair\"), in which succeeding rows are reversed instead of staggered, so that the bases of the panes of each tincture are opposite those of the same tincture in adjoining rows. Less common is \"vair in pale\" (Fr. \"vair en pal\" or \"vair appointé\", Ger. \"Pfahlfeh\"), in which the panes of each tincture are arranged in vertical columns. In German heraldry one finds \"Stürzpfahlfeh\", or reversed vair in pale. \"Vair in bend\" (Fr. \"vair en bande\") and \"vair in bend sinister\" (Fr. \"vair en barre\"), in which the panes are arranged in diagonal rows, is found in continental heraldry. \"Vair in point\" (Fr. \"vair en pointe\", Ger. \"Wogenfeh\", \"wave vair\") is formed by reversing alternate rows, as in counter-vair, and then displacing them by half the width of a pane, forming an undulating pattern across adjoining rows. German heraldry also uses a form called \"Wechselfeh\", or \"alternate vair\", in which each pane is divided in half along a vertical line, one side being argent and the other azure.\n\nWhen the pattern of vair is used with other colours, the field is termed \"vairé\" or \"vairy\" of the tinctures used. Normally vairé consists of one metal and one colour, although ermine or one of its variants is sometimes used, with an ermine spot appearing in each pane of that tincture. Vairé of four colours (Ger. \"Buntfeh\", \"gay-coloured\" or \"checked vair\") is also known, usually consisting of two metals and two colours.\n\nAnother type of variation is known as \"potent\" (Ger. \"Sturzkrückenfeh\", \"upside-down crutch vair\"). In this form, the familiar \"vair bell\" is replaced by a T-shaped figure, known as a \"potent\" due to its resemblance to a crutch. The appearance of this shape is thought by some authorities to have originated from crude draftsmanship, although others regard it as an old and perfectly acceptable variation. A regularly encountered variation of potent is \"counter-potent\" or \"potent-counter-potent\" (Ger. \"Gegensturzkrückenfeh\"), which is produced in the same fashion as counter-vair; \"potent in point\" (Ger. \"Verschobenes Gegensturzkrückenfeh\", \"displaced counter-potent\") is also found. There is no reason why one could not have \"potent in pale\", \"potent in bend\", \"alternate potent\", or \"potent of four colours\". The same pattern using other tinctures than argent and azure is termed \"potenté\" or \"potenty\" of those colours.\n\nThree other furs sometimes encountered in continental heraldry are thought to be derived from vair: in \"plumeté\" or \"plumetty\", the panes are depicted as feathers; and in \"papelonné\" or \"papellony\" they are depicted as scales, resembling those of a butterfly's wings, whence the name is derived. In German heraldry there is a fur known as \"Kürsch\", or \"vair bellies\", consisting of panes depicted hairy and brown. Here the phrase \"vair bellies\" may be a misnomer, as the belly of the red squirrel is always white, although its summer coat is indeed reddish brown.\n\nSeveral other tinctures are occasionally met with, usually in continental heraldry:\n\n\nThe heraldic scholar A. C. Fox-Davies proposed that, in some circumstances, \"white\" should be considered a heraldic colour, distinct from argent. In a number of instances, a label or collar blazoned as \"white\" rather than \"argent\" appears on a supporter blazoned argent \"or\" or. The use of \"white\" in place of \"argent\" would be consistent with the practice of heraldic blazon that discourages repeating the name of a tincture in describing a coat of arms, but if it were merely intended as a synonym of \"argent\", this placement would clearly violate the rule against placing metal on metal or colour on colour (see below). This difficulty is avoided if \"white\" is considered a colour in this particular instance, rather than a synonym of \"argent\". This interpretation has neither been accepted nor refuted by any heraldic authority, but a counter-argument is that the labels are not intended to represent a heraldic tincture, but are in fact white labels proper.\n\nOther exceptional colours have occasionally appeared during the twentieth and twenty-first centuries:\n\nThe arms of the Jewish Autonomous Region in Russia have a field of \"aquamarine\", which is emblazoned more as a kind of dark green than a true aquamarine colour.\n\nThe Canadian Heraldic Authority granted arms containing \"rose\" as a colour in 1997. In 2002, the Authority granted arms including \"copper\", treated as a metal, to the municipality of Whitehorse, Yukon.\n\n\"Ochre\", both red and yellow, appears in South African heraldry; the national coat of arms, adopted in 2000, includes \"red ochre\", while (yellow) ochre appears in the arms of the University of Transkei.\n\nIn the United States, heraldry is not governed by any official authority; but the United States Army, which makes extensive use of heraldry, does have its own authority, the United States Army Institute of Heraldry. The armorial designs of the Institute of Heraldry include a number of novel tinctures, including \"buff\" (employed variously as either a metal or a colour), and \"horizon blue\". \"Silver gray\" has appeared in the heraldry of both the Army and the Air Force. \"Bronze\" appears as a colour in the arms of the Special Troops Battalion of the 2nd Brigade, 1st Cavalry Division. There seems to be some confusion about the colour \"crimson\", as in some cases it is treated as a separate tincture, while in others it is used to specify the shade of gules to be employed by the artist. Differing from most heraldic practice, the Institute of Heraldry often specifies the exact shades to be used in depicting various arms.\n\nA charge that is coloured as it naturally appears is blazoned \"proper\" (Fr. \"propre\"), or \"the colour of nature\". Strictly speaking, proper is not a tincture in itself, and if, as is sometimes the case, a charge is meant to be depicted in particular colours that are not apparent from the word \"proper\" alone, they may be specified in whatever detail is necessary. Certain charges are considered \"proper\" when portrayed with particular colours, even though a range of different colours is found in nature; for instance, a popinjay proper is green, even though wild parrots occur in a variety of colours. In some cases, a charge depicted in a particular set of colours may be referred to as \"proper\", even though it consists entirely of heraldic tinctures; a rose proper, whether red or white, is barbed vert and seeded or.\n\nThe most extensive use of non-heraldic colours is probably associated with \"landscape heraldry\", a common feature of British and German armory during the latter part of the eighteenth century, and the early part of the nineteenth. Although rarely used for the field itself, landscapes were often granted as augmentations, typically depicting a fortress successfully captured or defended, or a particular ship, or a battle in which the armiger to whom the augmentation was granted was involved. Such landscapes, usually appearing on a chief, might be blazoned with great particularity as to the things portrayed and the colours used to portray them. Officially, these landscapes appeared on a field of argent, but it was common, and perhaps expected, for the artist to add further details, such as the sky and clouds, by which the field might be wholly obscured. The use of landscapes in heraldry fell out of fashion during the Victorian era, when heraldic scholars and artists began looking to earlier and simpler periods of armorial design for inspiration.\n\nIn the English-speaking world, heraldic terminology is based largely on that of British armory, which in turn is based on Norman French. With respect to the heraldic tinctures, French heraldry, which is often cited by heraldic authors, uses similar terminology; while German heraldry, also highly influential, uses a different vocabulary; it calls the colours by their everyday names.\n\nIn its original sense, \"tincture\" refers only to the group conventionally referred to as \"colours\". But as the word \"colour\" seems inapplicable to the heraldic furs, and no other term clearly encompasses all three classes, the word \"tincture\" has come to be used in this broader sense, while \"colour\" has acquired the more restricted sense originally given to \"tincture\". Thus, when consulting various heraldic authorities, care must be taken to determine which meaning each term is given.\n\nIn most heraldic tradition, the various metals and colours have no fixed appearance, hue, or shade. The heraldic artist is free to choose a lighter or darker blue or green, a deeper or brighter red; to choose between depicting or with yellow or any of various gold paints, to depict argent as white or silver. Recently the College of Arms explained, \"there are no fixed shades for heraldic colours. If the official description of a coat of arms gives its tinctures as Gules (red), Azure (blue) and Argent (white or silver) then, as long as the blue is not too light and the red not too orange, purple or pink, it is up to the artist to decide which particular shades they think are appropriate.\"\n\nMost heraldic authors do not capitalize the names of the various tinctures, although a few do (sometimes inconsistently), and some who do not capitalize the other tinctures recommend capitalizing \"or\" in order to avoid confusion with the conjunction. However, there are relatively few occasions in which the conjunction \"or\" would appear in the blazon of a coat of arms; and if properly worded, which meaning is intended should be readily apparent from the context. Another convention has been to capitalize only the first word or the first tincture appearing in the blazon, but no other words. In the elaborate calligraphy appearing on most grants of arms, all of the tinctures are capitalized, as indeed are the names of the charges; but this is purely a matter of decorative style, and in no way does the manner of capitalization used in the original grant affect how the arms may be described on other occasions.\n\nA long-standing heraldic tradition has been to avoid repeating the names of tinctures multiple times in any given blazon. If it is possible to mention multiple charges of the same tincture at once, followed by the name of the tincture, then this problem is avoided; but when it is impossible to combine elements of the same tincture in this manner, more creative descriptions may be used. For example, instead of \"gules, on a fess or between three chess-rooks argent, a lion passant gules, armed and langued argent\", one might say, \"gules, on a fess or between three chess-rooks argent, a lion passant \"of the field\", armed and langued \"of the third\".\" Similar phrases include \"of the last\" and \"of the like\". Alternately, descriptions such as \"gold\" and \"silver\" might be substituted for \"or\" and \"argent\" on a subsequent occurrence. Another rule of blazon relating to tinctures suggests the placing of a comma after each occurrence of a tincture.\n\nIn recent years, the College of Arms has regularly dispensed with many of these practices, believing them to cause confusion; and in new grants of arms, the names of tinctures are repeated on each instance that they occur. The names of all tinctures and charges are capitalized, although the word \"proper\", indicating the colour of nature, is not; and internal commas are entirely omitted.\n\nThe first so-called \"rule\" of heraldry is the rule of tincture: \"metal should not be placed upon metal, nor colour upon colour\", for the sake of contrast.\n\nThe main duty of a heraldic device is to be recognized, and the dark colours or light metals are supposed to be too difficult to distinguish if they are placed on top of other dark or light colours, particularly in poor light. Though this is the practical genesis of the rule, the rule is technical and appearance is not used in determining whether arms conform to the rule. Another reason sometimes given to justify this rule is that it was difficult to paint with enamel (colour) over enamel, or with metal over metal.\n\nThis \"rule\" has at times been followed so pedantically that arms that violate it were called \"armes fausses\" (false arms) or \"armes à enquérir\" (arms of enquiry); any violation was presumed to be intentional, to the point that one was supposed to enquire how it came to pass. One of the most famous \"armes à enquérir\" (often said to be the only example) was the shield of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, which had gold crosses on silver. This use of metal on metal, that is to say white and gold together, is seen on the arms of the King of Jerusalem, the flag and arms of the Vatican, and the bishop's mitre in the arms of Andorra. It indicates the exceptional holy and special status of the Coat of Arms. An example of \"colour on colour\" is the arms of Albania, with its sable two-headed eagle on a gules field.\n\nThe \"rule of tincture\" has had an influence reaching far beyond heraldry. It has been applied to the design of flags, so that the flag of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach was modified to conform to the rule.\n\nWhen a charge or group of charges is placed across a division line, variation, or ordinary, it may be \"counterchanged\" (Fr. \"contre-changé\", but modern \"de l'un en l'autre\", Ger. \"verwechselte Farben\" or \"verschränkte Farben\"), meaning that the charges are divided the same way as the field upon which they rest, with the colours reversed.\n\nIn the municipal arms of Behnsdorf, Saxony-Anhalt, seen at right, the field is divided with the left half white (argent) and the right half green (vert), and the counterchanged tree is green where it lies on the white part of the field, and white where it lies on the green part.\n\nThe flag of Maryland is another example of counterchanging. The only U.S. state flag to be directly based on English heraldry, it is the arms of George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore, who founded the colony of Maryland in 1632. In the 1st and 4th quarters, the field is divided into six vertical bands of gold (or) and black (sable) with a diagonal band (a bend) in which the colours are reversed (i.e., the bend is counterchanged). The 2nd and 3rd quarters are themselves quartered between white (argent) and red (gules) with a counterchanged cross bottony that is red where it lies on the white part of the field and white where it lies on the red part of the field.\n\nCounterchanging is rare in early heraldry; early examples from German heraldry are found in the late fifteenth-century Wernigerode Armorial; it becomes more frequently applied from the seventeenth century onward, especially with the substantial number of newly-created coats of arms, of which some notable examples include Baron Baltimore (1624), Nightingale baronets (1628), Barrett-Lennard baronets (1801), Verney baronets (1818), and Baron Alvingham (1929).\n\nIn Scottish heraldry, charges are sometimes blazoned as counterchanged of different colours from the field; for instance, \"per fess gules and azure, a sun in splendour counterchanged or and of the first.\" A more typical blazon for this would be \"per fess gules and azure, a sun in splendour per fess or and of the first\".\n\nThe term \"countercoloured\" is sometimes used in place of \"counterchanged\". The arms of the Fenwick baronets were originally blazoned as \"silver, a chief gules with six martlets countercoloured\". In this case, three martlets argent rest on a chief gules, while three martlets gules rest on the argent field. Some heraldic authorities regard the use of this term as erroneous.\n\nDuring the first half of the seventeenth century, the proliferation of the printing press coupled with the persistence of difficulties in and expense of colour printing prompted the development of a number of systems of hatching for the purpose of depicting heraldic designs without the use of colour. Intended chiefly for printing and engraving, the system which eventually gained widespread acceptance was that of Silvestro de Petra Sancta, a Jesuit priest and heraldic scholar, originally published in 1638.\n\nIn Petra Sancta's method, illustrated in the table above, a separate hatching represents each metal and colour, while the furs are treated as combinations of metal and colour. Argent is represented by a plain field, while or is represented by a field strewn with dots. Gules is represented by vertical lines, azure by horizontal lines, and sable by a combination of horizontal and vertical lines. Diagonal lines running from dexter chief to sinister base represent vert, while purpure is the reverse, represented by diagonal lines running from sinister chief to dexter base. Sanguine is represented by diagonal lines running in each direction, while tenné is represented by a combination of horizontal lines and diagonal lines running from sinister chief to dexter base.\n\nNine additional hatchings, published by Marcus Vulson de la Colombière in 1639, were intended to represent other colours, although none of them correspond with regular heraldic tinctures, and they have never been used in British armory. A combination of vertical lines with diagonal lines running from dexter chief to sinister base represents brown; blood red is represented by vertical lines combined with diagonal lines running from sinister chief to dexter base; earth-colour by horizontal and vertical lines combined with diagonal lines running from dexter chief to sinister base; iron-grey by diagonal lines running in each direction (the same as sanguine in Petra Sancta's system); water-colour by broken horizontal lines; flesh-colour by broken vertical lines; ashen-grey by a combination of broken horizontal and broken diagonal lines; orange by broken vertical lines interspersed with dots; and the colour of nature by zig-zag lines running from dexter chief to sinister base.\n\nBefore the use of hatching to depict individual heraldic tinctures, it was common to \"trick\" heraldic designs when colours were unavailable. The arms would be drawn in outline, and the tinctures written in abbreviated form: \"O\" or \"or\" for or; \"A\", \"ar\", or \"arg\" for argent, \"G\" or \"gu\" for gules; \"S\" or \"sa\" for sable; \"Az\" or \"B\" for azure (\"B\" for \"blue\" being used in older trickings to avoid confusion between \"ar\" and \"az\"); \"Vt\" for vert, \"Purp\" for purpure, and \"Pr\" for proper. Although most records of the College of Arms are in colour, the practice of tricking is used in all other cases, even after the widespread adoption of hatching for printing and engraving arms.\n\nFrench heraldry also uses tricking to depict heraldic tinctures, using \"O\" for or; \"A\" for argent; \"G\" for gules; \"S\" for sable; \"B\" for bleu (to avoid confusing azur with argent); \"V\" for vert (to avoid confusing sinople with sable); \"P\" for purpure or pourpre; and \"Pr\" for propre.\n\nIn German heraldry, \"G\" is used for gelb (gold); \"W\" for weiss (white); \"R\" for rot (red); \"S\" for schwarz (black); \"B\" for blau (blue); and \"Gr\", or a shape like an upright leaf, for grün (green); German heraldry makes little use of purpure, but in its place allows \"Br\" for braun (brown). These abbreviations may be either capitalized or lowercase.\nThat was a time when heraldry was ruled by allegorical and astrological views. All this was in connection with the ancient lore of sympathies, which examined sympathies and antipathies among the stars, minerals, animals, plants, and people. Some additional tinctures were also designed by astrological symbols.\n\nThe Babylonians, according to the lore of sympathies, had great esteem for gems, semi-precious stones and scarce minerals. They saw them as the concentrates of cosmic powers. Pliny the Elder stressed several times that he wrote his work to reveal this universal law (i. e. the lore of sympathies). This doctrine was taken over by the Medieval medicine, pharmacy, alchemy, heraldry etc. During the 1350s, the work of Bartolo de Sassoferrato (1313/1314-1357) linked Or to the sun, Azure to the element air, and Gules to the element fire. Between 1382 and 1387 he was followed by Honoré Bonet (c. 1340-c. 1410), a heraldist from Provence. In his work \"Arbre des Batailles\" (1387) Bonet declares that the metal gold is the noblest in the world because, due to its very nature, is bright and shining and full of virtues.\n\nDuring the late medieval period and Renaissance, there was an occasional practice of blazoning tinctures by gemstones, or by references to the seven classical \"planets\" (including Sun and Moon).\n\nThe work of Bonet was thoroughly studied by the 15th century Burgundian heraldists and Jean Courtois (†1436) called Sicily Herald. In his work \"Le Blason des Couleurs\" (1414), Courtois developed a heraldic system consisting of the tinctures, planets and carbuncles (furthermore, the virtues, metals, months, the zodiac, and weekdays among others). He was familiar with the \"Etymologies\" of Isidore of Seville, and also he gave the names of the tinctures in Greek. However, his main contribution was the development of gemstone-planetary blazon. The system that Bonet developed was as a mix of the colour-gemstone-planet: or topaz the sun, argent pearl the moon, gules ruby the Mars, sable diamond the Saturn, azure sapphire the Jupiter, vert emerald the Venus, purpure amethyst the Mercury, tenné jacinth the dragon's head, sanguine/murrey sardonyx the dragon's tail.\n\nTenné and Sanguine were the stains used in the abatements of arms which were dishonorable charges placed upon the coats of arms of malefactors. Dragon's head and dragon's tail were in use from the late ancient times. While the dragon's head (called also Anabibazon in astronomy and astrology) symbolizes a light colour (tenné), dragon‘s tail (called also Catabibazon) symbolizes a dark colour (sanguine) which in miniature corresponds to transmutation, provided by alchemists. The purpose of this process is to produce the philosopher's stone. During the process, as a result of the successive reactions, the materia prima will get transformed to a darker and more reddish one from the light coloured material. In the astrology dragon‘s head is connected to good luck, while dragon‘s tail is linked to unlucky events. All these indicate that the then contemporary heraldry was strongly under the influences of magical views and alchemistic ideas, which in turn were connected to the lore of the sympathies between the colours, planets, gemstones, metals, virtues etc. (The odd terminology of colours used by Heraldus Britannus, as mentioned by Spener, can partly reflect the view of alchemy: aurum–cytrine, argentum–aspre, rubeus–coccine, caeruleus– veneto, Niger–mauro, viridis–prasino, and purpureus–oiscy.)\n\nThe work of Jean Courtois was diffused in manuscripts and later became one of the first books printed in French. Shortly it was published in England as well, but without much impact. However, during the Tudor and Stuart dynasties (1485–1702), it appeared in the then heraldry manuals. In his book \"Traité du blason\" (1465), Clément Prinsault deals with the relation of colours to the virtues, the seven planets, the 12 celestial signs, gemstones, weekdays, the three elements etc. This book is one of the earliest writings on heraldry that is available today.\n\nThe English historian and heraldist Sir Henry Spelman (1564–1641) applied in his 1654 book titled \"Aspilogia\" the symbols of the planets to designate tinctures (presented in the table). Sir John Ferne (†1609) enumerates as many as 14 different methods of blazon: 1. by colours, 2. by planets, 3. by precious stones, 4. by virtues, 5. by celestial signs, 6. by the months of the year, 7. by the days of the week, 8. by the ages of man, 9. by flowers, 10. by the elements, 11. by the seasons of the year, 12. by the complexions of man, 13. by numbers, 14. by metals. Though today its practice is considered absurd, it was an organic part of the then heraldic view.\n\nApart from the main tinctures, there also existed English and other language tricking abbreviations for some other tinctures (such as Proper – ppr, pp, Ermine – er etc.). To designate carnation (carnea tinctura), the then contemporary heraldry applied the zodiac sign of Leo in reverse (), and the German heraldry used trefoil to designate colours above the seven main tinctures („qui ultimus color alibi signo trifolii ♣ pinguitur“). Spener also maintained (1717. p. 113), the tenné and sanguine were designated by the zodiac sign of Leo (). Besides the planetary sign of Venus, Rudolphi also refers to trefoil ( ) as a designation of colour vert. He also assigned the specific lengthy variants of astrological signs dragon's head and dragon's tail to the tinctures orange and carnation, respectively( ). Furthermore, the tincture Purpure being abbreviated by the letter p. (de: Purpur), and the grey by the letter a. (Asche-Farb). The astrological signs of the ascending and descending nodes (dragon's head and dragon's tail:   were also derived from the zodiac sign of Leo that was highly esteemed in the Renaissance age astrology.\n\nSo, besides these seven principal tinctures, there soon emerged some additional colours, which were also symbolized by the planetary symbols, gemstones, weekdays etc. Thus, a system of nine tinctures was developed. In general, it was said that the great magnates – the dukes, the earls, and the barons – were to have their arms blazoned by gemstones, and that the princes, the kings and the emperors were to have their arms blazoned by the planets. However, the Austrian troubadour and herald Peter Suchenwirt (c. 1320-1395) used gemstones to designate the tinctures even earlier (c. 1355) to describe the coat of arms of the Hungarian king Louis the Great (1342–1382). In his poem titled \"Turnier von Nantheiz\" (c. 1258) Konrad von Würzburg (c. 1230 -1287) also mentioned some coat of arms made of gemstones. In his blazon on the arms of the king of England (lines 310-320) we can learn that his escutheion was covered with Arabian gold and his leopards were made of rubies; finally, to the end of his work (1040) we can also read about further precious stones applied on coat of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "6327802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327802", "title": "Tony Shafrazi", "text": "Tony Shafrazi\n\nTony Shafrazi born May 8th, 1943, is the owner of the Shafrazi Art Gallery in New York, who deals artwork by artists such as Francis Bacon, Keith Haring, and David LaChapelle.\n\nShafrazi was born in Abadan, Iran to Christian Armenian parents who divorced when he was two. At the age of 13, his father – an oil-company executive – and stepmother took Shafrazi to England and left him to study there. He first went to a vicarage in Bilston, then to boarding school in Whittlebury and later Hammersmith College of Art & Building. He attended the Royal College of Art from 1963 to 1967 before coming to New York in 1969, where he lectured at several universities, including the School of Visual Arts.\n\nOn February 28, 1974, Shafrazi spray-painted Picasso's painting \"Guernica\", which hung in the Museum of Modern Art, with the words \"KILL LIES ALL\" in foot-high letters. When a guard finally grabbed him, Shafrazi shouted, \"Call the curator. I am an artist.\" The paint was easily removed as the painting was heavily varnished. It is believed that Shafrazi was protesting the announcement, the day before, of the release on bail of U.S. lieutenant William Calley. Calley, then under house arrest following his conviction, in 1971, for his part in the My Lai massacre in Vietnam, had petitioned for habeas corpus; he had initially been sentenced to life imprisonment. Although his appeal was overturned in June, he was finally released from U.S. Army custody later in the year after having received a limited pardon from Richard Nixon. Shafrazi was a member of the Art Workers' Coalition, which in 1970 had staged a protest at MoMA by unfurling a copy of the famous My Lai protest poster \"And babies\" in front of the \"Guernica\" painting, which itself depicts the tragedies of war and the suffering it inflicts upon innocent civilians. Shafrazi was later given five years' probation, without a trial.\n\nIn regard to his 1974 vandalism of the painting, he gave the following statement to \"Art in America\" in December 1980: \"I wanted to bring the art absolutely up to date, to retrieve it from art history and give it life. Maybe that's why the \"Guernica\" action remains so difficult to deal with. I tried to trespass beyond that invisible barrier that no one is allowed to cross; I wanted to dwell within the act of the painting's creation, get involved with the making of the work, put my hand within it and by that act encourage the individual viewer to challenge it, deal with it and thus see it in its dynamic raw state as it was being made, not as a piece of history.\"\n\nIn 1976, only a few years after the spray painting incident, Shafrazi returned to his homeland and became the art advisor to the Shah of Iran and Kamran Diba, then director of the Teheran Museum of Contemporary Art. Shafrazi went to about 15 of the top New York dealers at the time — including Leo Castelli, Ileana Sonnabend, Paula Cooper, John Weber, and Irving Blum — and helped assemble a 20th-century art collection on the Shah's behalf within four years. As he did so his power expanded in the art market. The museum Shafrazi had constructed in Tehran to house this collection epitomized the Shah's modern Iranian state, thus the collection was predominantly Western: from Impressionism to Abstract Expressionism, Pop and Conceptual Art, including works by Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, and Willem de Kooning.\n\nIn 1978, Shafrazi briefly opened his own commercial gallery in a small Tehran shopfront but closed it because of conditions in the country leading up to the 1979 Revolution.\n\nResettling in New York after the Shah was deposed, Shafrazi converted his rented apartment into a makeshift gallery where he slept on a small loft bed at night. In 1979, he opened his first New York gallery, and within a few years he had made his reputation handling talents like Donald Baechler and then-hot graffiti artists like Jean-Michel Basquiat, Keith Haring, and Kenny Scharf and also European artists like Brian Clarke, Enzo Cucchi, Hervé Di Rosa and Jean-Charles Blais. In 1990, he opened a new 13,000-square-foot gallery at 119 Wooster Street, with an exhibition entitled \"American Masters of the 60's\" and including Carl Andre, Tom Wesselmann, Jasper Johns, Donald Judd, Frank Stella, and Andy Warhol.\n\nIn 1999, the Francis Bacon estate chose Shafrazi as its United States representative. In 2004, the gallery opened another space on 26th Street with a large show of paintings by Picasso, Francis Bacon and Jean-Michel Basquiat.,\n\nA longtime friend of Stephanie Seymour and Peter Brant, Shafrazi was best man at their 1995 wedding in a chapel on an estate outside Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "58447057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58447057", "title": "Werner's Nomenclature of Colours", "text": "Werner's Nomenclature of Colours\n\nWerner's Nomenclature of Colours is a book of named colour samples compiled by Abraham Gottlob Werner, and subsequently amended by Patrick Syme. The book, first published in 1814, was used by Charles Darwin in his scientific observations. Werner's \"Nomenclature\" can be viewed as a predecessor of modern named colour systems such as Pantone.\n"}
{"id": "41903329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41903329", "title": "World Art Day", "text": "World Art Day\n\n\"World Art Day\" (Rittik Day) is an international celebration of the fine arts which was declared by the International Association of Art (IAA) in order to promote awareness of creative activity worldwide.\n\nA proposal was put forward at the 17th General Assembly of the International Association of Art in Guadalajara to declare April 15 as World Art Day, with the first celebration held in 2012. This proposal was sponsored by Bedri Baykam of Turkey and co-signed by Rosa Maria Burillo Velasco of Mexico, Anne Pourny of France, Liu Dawei of China, Christos Symeonides of Cyprus, Anders Liden of Sweden, Kan Irie of Japan, Pavel Kral of Slovakia, Dev Chooramun of Mauritius, and Hilde Rognskog of Norway. It was accepted unanimously by the General Assembly.\n\nThe date was decided in honor of the birthday of Leonardo da Vinci. Da Vinci was chosen as a symbol world peace, freedom of expression, tolerance, brotherhood and multiculturalism as well as art’s importance to other fields.\n\nThe first World Art Day on April 15, 2012 was supported by all IAA national committees and 150 artists, including those of France, Sweden, Slovakia, South Africa, Cyprus and Venezuela, but the intention of the event is universal. Events varied from special museum hours to conferences and more. For example Venezuela held outdoor art exhibitions with paintings, sculptures, prints, video and more, as well as a Florentine cooking demonstration in honor of Da Vinci.\n\nMore events were held in 2013 all over the world including the Mbombela municipal art museum in South Africa. However, there was controversy at celebrations in Sweden when the Swedish minister of Culture, Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth, cut into the genitals of a cake representing a black African woman. The performance art was meant to be a statement against genital mutilation but many found the depiction racist.\n\nWorld Art Day has also been supported online, especially by the Google Art Project.\n"}
