{"id": "9678007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9678007", "title": "Ad tracking", "text": "Ad tracking\n\nAd tracking, also known as post-testing or ad effectiveness tracking, is in-market research that monitors a brand’s performance including brand and advertising awareness, product trial and usage, and attitudes about the brand versus their competition.\n\nDepending on the speed of the purchase cycle in the category, tracking can be done continuously (a few interviews every week) or it can be “pulsed,” with interviews conducted in widely spaced waves (ex. every three or six months). Interviews can either be conducted with separate, matched samples of consumers, or with a single (longitudinal) panel that is interviewed over time.\n\nSince the researcher has information on when the ads launched, the length of each advertising flight, the money spent, and when the interviews were conducted, the results of ad tracking can provide information on the effects of advertising.\n\nThe purpose of ad tracking is generally to provide a measure of the combined effect of the media weight or spending level, the effectiveness of the media buy or targeting, and the quality of the advertising executions or creative.\n\nAdvertisers use the results of ad tracking to estimate the return on investment (ROI) of advertising, and to refine advertising plans. Sometimes, tracking data are used to provide inputs to Marketing Mix Models which marketing science statisticians build to estimate the role of advertising, as compared to pricing, distribution and other marketplace variables on sales of the brand.\n\nToday, most ad tracking studies are conducted via the Internet. Some ad tracking studies are conducted continuously and others are conducted at specific points in time (typically before the advertising appears in market, and then again after the advertising has been running for some period of time). The two approaches use different types of analyses, although both start by measuring advertising awareness. Typically, the respondent is either shown a brief portion of a commercial or a few memorable still images from the TV ad. Other media typically are cued using either branded or de-branded visual of the ad. Then, respondents answer three significant questions.\n\nThe continuous tracking design analyzes advertising awareness over time, in relation to ad spending; separately, this design tracks brand awareness, and then develops indices of effectiveness based on the strength of the correlations between ad spending and brand awareness.\n\nThe most popular alternate approach to the continuous tracking design is the Communicants System longitudinal design, in which the same people are interviewed at two points in time. Changes in brand measures (for example, brand purchasing and future purchase intentions) exhibited among those who have seen the advertising are compared to the changes in brand measures that occurred among those unaware of advertising. By means of this method, the researchers can isolate those marketplace changes that were produced by advertising versus those that would have occurred without advertising.\n\nThere are several different tools to track online ads: banner ads, ppc ads, pop-up ads, and other types. Several online advertising companies such as Google offer their own ad tracking service (Google Analytics) in order to effectively use their service to generate a positive ROI. Third-party ad tracking services are commonly used by affiliate marketers. Affiliate marketers are frequently unable to have access to the order page and therefore are unable to use a 3rd-party tool. Many different companies have created tools to effectively track their commissions in order to optimize their profit potential. The information provided will show the marketer which advertising methods are generating income and which are not and allows him to effectively allocate his budget.\n\nHere is a list of some of the data a post-test might provide: \n\n"}
{"id": "7305808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7305808", "title": "Ambassador Hotel (Jacksonville)", "text": "Ambassador Hotel (Jacksonville)\n\nThe 310 West Church Street Apartments, also known as the Ambassador Hotel, is a historic building located at 420 North Julia Street in Jacksonville, Florida, United States. On April 7, 1983, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe structure is a brick, six-story building designed in the Georgian Revival architectural style containing Beaux-Arts elements. It opened as the upscale 310 West Church Street Apartments in 1924. Designed by Hentz, Reid and Adler architects, the building was designed in an \"H\"-shape to provide windows in all of the units. The main entrance is fronted by large rusticated ashlar stonework, set with a scroll keystone.\n\nAfter twenty years of use, it was converted into a hotel. Its name subsequently changed several times: it was the Three-Ten Hotel in 1944, the Hotel Southland in 1947, the Griner Hotel in 1949 and in 1955, the Ambassador Hotel. In 1970, the building was purchased by Sam Easton, now a principal in the Jacksonville real estate firm Easton Sanderson & Company.\n\nOver the years the hotel fell into disrepair as Jacksonville's downtown went into decline. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1983, but this did not significantly improve its fortunes. It was converted into a low-rent single room occupancy, with rooms rented by the week. It closed in 1998.\n\nIn 2005, Jacksonville businessman Lamonte Carter initiated plans to purchase and restore 310 West Church Street. He had encountered the building when he happened to park in front of it on his way to an appointment. He contacted Easton, who had halted a plan to renovate the surrounding block after construction stalled on the Duval County Courthouse, located nearby. Carter's plan for 310 West Church, which would cost an estimated $8 million in private equity, government grants, and low-interest loans, involved converting the ground floor to commercial space and turning the top five floors into 50 unit apartments. Carter hoped the renovation will lead to a further collaboration with Easton to renovate the block.\n\nSubsequently, the historic property was acquired by Axis Hotels LLC, which announced plans in 2018 to turn the building into a 4- or 5-star boutique hotel with 100 rooms and a rooftop bar. Axis also purchased the adjacent former Marine National Bank building at 404 North Julia Street, which the company plans to demolish to construct a 200-unit apartment building with 15,000 square feet of retail space.\n"}
{"id": "32383745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32383745", "title": "American Association of Christian Counselors", "text": "American Association of Christian Counselors\n\nThe American Association of Christian Counselors, Inc. (AACC) is the largest organization of Christian counselors in the world.\n\nIt is a corporation headquartered in Forest, Virginia, United States. AACC, as it is often called, creates the largest gathering of Christian counselors once per year in North America with annual conferences that often exceed 5,000 attendees. Speakers for these events include, Dr. Henry Cloud, Dr. John Townsend, Gary Smalley, Larry Crabb, T.D. Jakes, Ron Hawkins, John Trent, Emmerson Eggrich, Joni Tada, Arch Harte, John Eldredge, and a host of other popular Christian writers. AACC is under the direction of Dr. Tim Clinton and celebrates their 25th anniversary as a professional trade association in 2011. They were previously headquartered in Fairfax, Virginia. It has about nearly 50,000 members. It publishes two journals: \"Christian Counseling Today\" and \"Marriage and Family: A Christian Journal\". It has adopted a code of ethics used for Christian counseling. In 2014 AACC amended its code of ethics to eliminate the promotion of conversion therapy for homosexuals and encouraged them to be celibate instead.\n"}
{"id": "22820700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22820700", "title": "Andreas Vgenopoulos", "text": "Andreas Vgenopoulos\n\nAndreas Vgenopoulos (10 December 1953 − 5 Νovember 2016) was the chairman of Marfin Investment Group and was a major shareholder of Panathinaikos FC. Vgenopoulos resigned from Panathinaikos in June 2010 citing differences with Giannis Vardinogiannis. His departure disappointed the fans of Panathinaikos. Vgenopoulos owned 1% of Marfin Popular Bank and 1,5% of the Marfin Investment Group. He had also been a Greek champion of Panathinaikos' Fencing department.\n\nVgenopoulos graduated from University of Athens with a degree in Law and from Long Island University (U.S.) with an MBA.\n\nVgenopoulos was a shareholder of Panathinaikos FC until June 2010, owning 20% of the club's shares. He was also a member of the board of directors of the club alongside Giannis Vardinogiannis and Pavlos Giannakopoulos. Panathinaikos is now owned by \"Panathinaiki Symmahia\" (Panthenaic Alliance) with Giannis Alafouzos as president.\n\nVgenopoulos was also the chairman of Olympic Air, the oldest Greek airline. Marfin Investment Group (MIG) bought the company from the Greek government on 1 October 2009. During the last three years, Mr. Vgenopoulos' MIG fund has seen the wealth deteriorate, it is reported that it has lost 95% of its value. Mr. Vgenopoulos is in the process of selling Olympic to Aegean.\n\n"}
{"id": "17986530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17986530", "title": "Arthur John Burns", "text": "Arthur John Burns\n\nArthur John Burns (22 October 1830 – 15 September 1901) was a prominent early settler of Otago, New Zealand, a member of the Otago Provincial Council, a member of the New Zealand House of Representatives and founder of the Mosgiel Woollen Company, Dunedin.\n\nBurns was born in Monkton, South Ayrshire, Scotland. He was the only son and eldest child of Thomas Burns and Clementina Grant and the great-nephew of the poet Robert Burns. He came to Otago with his father in the \"Philip Laing\" arriving in Port Chalmers on 15 April 1848.\n\nHe played a prominent part in provincial affairs and was a member of the Provincial Council from 1855 to 1859 and again from 1863 to 1870. On three occasions, he served on the Executive Council of the Otago Province. He was also a member of the New Zealand House of Representatives on three occasions; Bruce 1865–1866, Caversham 1866–1870 when he resigned, and Roslyn 1875–1878 when he resigned. He vigorously opposed the abolition of the provinces in 1876.\n\nOn 6 April 1861 he married Sarah Scott Dickson, with whom he had 11 children.\n\nHe founded the Mosgiel Woollen Company in 1871 in an area on the western outskirts of Dunedin. Burns named the town Mosgiel after his great-uncle Robert Burns's Mossgiel farm in Ayrshire, Scotland. He imported skilled labour and specialised equipment from Great Britain to begin large scale clothmaking in 1873. This mill formed the backbone of the Mosgiel economy for decades.\n\nBurns died on 15 September 1901 and is memorialised in the names of two schools - Arthur Burns School in Mosgiel and the Arthur Burns Early Learning Centre. Arthur Burns School in Mosgiel has since been amalgamated with two other primary schools in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40841632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40841632", "title": "Azizan Zainul Abidin", "text": "Azizan Zainul Abidin\n\nTun Azizan bin Zainul Abidin (28 May 1935 - 14 July 2004) was a Malaysian corporate figure and president of the Putrajaya Corporation and of Petronas.\n\nAzizan was born on May 28, 1935, in Air Itam, Penang. He had 3 children with his wife Noor Ainne Chen Teh: Amir Hamzah Azizan, Norizan Azizan and Ikhwan Azizan and 7 grand children\n\nIn 1960 he joined the Ministry of Education, becoming senior private secretary to the Second Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tun Abdul Razak Hussein (1971-1974). In 1988, he retired as chief secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs.\n\nAzizan joined Petronas as Petronas President and Chief Executive Officer, holding the position from February 1988 to February 1995. In addition, he was a chairman of Malaysia Airlines, Putrajaya Corporation, KLCC Holdings (M) Sdn Bhd, Petronas Carigali Sdn Bhd, MTBE Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Petronas Trading Limited, Malaysia LNG Sdn Bhd and Suria KLCC Sdn Bhd.\n\nHe is remembered for his work in developing Putrajaya, the Federal Government Administrative Centre.\n\nHe was appointed Pro-Chancellor of Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM) and a member of the World Economic Forum; Kuala Lumpur hosted the forum in 2002. He was Chairman of the ASEAN-Canada Business Council, Treasurer of the Crime Prevention Foundation and a Member of the Management Improvement Commission of the Royal Malaysian Police.\n\nAzizan died on July 14, 2004, at the age of 68, and was buried at the Muslim Cemetery in Taman Selatan, Putrajaya.\n\nOn June 5, 2010, five years after his death, he was posthumously awarded the Malaysian federal highest award, the Seri Setia Mahkota Malaysia (SSM), which carries the title \"Tun\" in conjunction with the birthday of the 13th Yang di-Pertuan Agong, Tuanku Mizan Zainal Abidin, at Istana Negara, Kuala Lumpur.\n\nHe also received the Order of the Commander of the Legion of Honour from the French government in October 2003, the Norwegian government award for \"outstanding contribution to quality \" in management in 1992 and the Vietnam Friendship Medal by the government in September 2001.\n\n\nA cargo ship converted by Petronas for use in the Eastern Sabah Security Zone is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "3221453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3221453", "title": "Buck passing", "text": "Buck passing\n\nBuck passing, or passing the buck, is the act of attributing to another person or group, one's own responsibility. It is often used to refer to a strategy in power politics whereby a state tries to get another state to deter or possibly fight an aggressor state while it remains on the sidelines.\n\nThe expression is said to have originated from poker, in which a marker or counter (such as a knife with a buckhorn handle during the American Frontier era) was used to indicate the person whose turn it was to deal. If the player did not wish to deal he could pass the responsibility by passing the \"buck\", as the counter came to be called, to the next player.\n\nAnother less common but arguably less fanciful attribution is to the French expression \"\", meaning \"scapegoat\", whereby passing the \"bouc\" is equivalent to passing the blame or onus. The terms \"bouc émissaire\" and \"scapegoat\" both originate from an Old Testament (Lev. 16:6–10) reference to an animal that was ritually made to carry the burden of sins, after which the \"buck\" was sent or \"passed\" into the wilderness to expiate them.\n\nPassing the buck in international relations theory involves the tendency of nation-states to refuse to confront a growing threat in the hopes that another state will. The most notable example of this was the refusal of the United Kingdom, United States, France, or the Soviet Union to effectively confront Nazi Germany during the 1930s. With the Munich Agreement, France and the United Kingdom successfully avoided armed confrontation with Germany, passing the buck to the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union then passed the buck back to the western powers by signing the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.\n\nSimilarly, John Mearsheimer argues that the delay of the Normandy invasion shows that a buck passing state can shift the balance of power in its favor: \"There is no question that the United States benefited greatly from delaying the Normandy invasion until late in the war, when both the German and the Soviet armies were battered and worn down. Not surprisingly, Joseph Stalin believed that the United Kingdom and the United States were purposely allowing Germany and the Soviet Union to bleed each other white, so that those offshore balancers [the United States and the United Kingdom] could dominate postwar Europe.\"\n\n\"The buck stops here\" is a phrase that was popularized by U.S. President Harry S. Truman, who kept a sign with that phrase on his desk in the Oval Office. The phrase refers to the notion that the President has to make the decisions and accept the ultimate responsibility for those decisions. Truman received the sign as a gift from a prison warden who was also an avid poker player. It is also the motto of the U.S. Naval Aircraft Carrier USS \"Harry S. Truman\" (CVN-75).\n\nPresident Jimmy Carter arranged to borrow the sign from the Harry S. Truman Presidential Library and Museum. Footage from Carter's \"Address to the Nation on Energy\" shows the sign on the desk during his administration.\n\nThe reverse of the sign reads, \"I'm from Missouri.\" This is a reference to Truman's home state, as well as Willard Duncan Vandiver's statement, \"I'm from Missouri. You've got to show me\".\n"}
{"id": "10425639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10425639", "title": "CMD Group", "text": "CMD Group\n\nCMD Group, formerly Reed Construction Data and Construction Market Data, is a provider of business information for the North American construction industry. CMD is owned by Warburg Pincus (51%) and Reed Business Information (49%). Its historical roots lie in Construction Market Data, founded in 1982 to publish construction leads and market data. In 2000, London-based Reed Elsevier purchased this original CMD Group, transitioning the company to Reed Construction Data.\n\nIn October 2014 private equity firm Warburg Pincus in New York purchased a majority stake in the company, and Reed Construction Data changed its name to CMD. The Norcross, Ga.-based provider of North American construction data said the new name is a nod to the company’s original name: Construction Market Data. The new brand includes an updated logo and website.\n\nThe company tracks data on hundreds of thousands of projects per year, providing coverage of construction projects in both the United States and Canada. The company provides monthly analysis and data for all aspects of the construction industry. CMD also provides a detailed view of construction activity, including historical data, current-year projections and a five-year forecast. Their research helps customers forecast to find those market segments experiencing the greatest growth and plan tactical marketing strategies.\n\nIn October 2009, Reed Construction Data (which is now Construction Market Data a division of ConstructCONNECT) filed suit in federal court against McGraw-Hill Construction, charging that the company's Dodge Report had unlawfully accessed confidential and trade secret information from Reed since 2002 by using a series of fake companies to pose as Reed customers.\nThe lawsuit, filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, seeks an unspecified amount in lost profits and punitive damages, trial by jury, and injunctive relief as a result of Dodge’s misuse of proprietary construction project information, and that Dodge allegedly manipulated the information to create misleading comparisons between Dodge’s and Reed’s products and services in an effort to mislead the marketplace.\n\nIn 2016, CMD Group became a part of ConstructConnect as part of a merger with iSqFt, BidClerk, Construction Data.\n\n"}
{"id": "45150748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45150748", "title": "Customer knowledge", "text": "Customer knowledge\n\nCustomer knowledge (CK) is the combination of experience, value and insight information which is needed, created and absorbed during the transaction and exchange between the customers and enterprise.\nCampbell (2003) defines customer knowledge as: \"organized and structured information about the customer as a result of systematic processing\". According to Mitussis et al. (2006), customer knowledge is identified as one of the more complex types of knowledge, since customer knowledge can be captured from different sources and channels.\n\nVarious classifications exist:\nGebert et al. (2002), classified customer knowledge from an organization's perspective into three types:\n\nThe same categorization of customer knowledge has been made by others such as Bueren et al. (2005) and Feng and Tian (2005). In another categorization, Crié and Micheaux (2006) divide customer knowledge into two types, namely: \"Behavioural\" (or Quantitative) and \"Attitudinal\" (or Qualitative). Behavioral knowledge is easy to acquire and is basically quantitative by nature; that is, containing a customer transactional relations with the company. On the other hand, attitudinal knowledge is difficult to acquire because it deals with a customer's state of mind; but meanwhile it is an important factor for enhancement of customer knowledge because they are directly related to a customer's thoughts and insights.\n\n\nJournals:\n"}
{"id": "47963492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47963492", "title": "Darío Straschnoy", "text": "Darío Straschnoy\n\nDario Straschnoy is an Argentine communications executive, Chairman of Untold_ and CEO of The Juju. He is recognized for his work as President and partner of Young & Rubicam's Argentine office. \n\nDario Straschnoy began his advertising career after studying Psychology at Buenos Aires University. At the end of high school, he worked at his father's glassware and when he was 20 years old, he began his own business: publishing classified ads.\n\nIn 1988, when he was part of Funes, Straschnoy & Dreyfus agency, he partnered with the multinational agency Young & Rubicam and assumed the presidency. Years later, in 2000, the company was bought and absorbed by WPP, one of the largest groups of communication services worldwide.\n\nYoung & Rubicam, one of the largest advertising agencies in the world, was founded in Philadelphia in 1923 and currently has 465 offices in 90 countries.\n\nThe agency came to Argentina in 1979 and Darío Straschnoy was the President from 1988 until the end of 2013.\n\nHe developed and was responsible of all the operations of Young & Rubicam group in Argentina, composed of four companies: Young & Rubicam, Wunderman, MEC and Burson Marsteller.\n\nThe company was responsible of very successful local advertising campaigns, such as the couple of Marcos and Claudia from Banco Galicia, which began in 2009 and still continues. They were also the creators of the controversial spot secretly filmed in Falkland Islands for the Argentine government, because of its participation at the London Olympic Games 2012.\n\nDuring his tenure at Young & Rubicam he worked for prestigious brands such as Danone, Quilmes beer, Visa and Tulipán condoms. Also, for fifteen years, he was in charge of advertising APSA -owner of the Argentine shoppings Alto Palermo, Abasto and Alto Avellaneda, among others, the cell phone company Movistar, the candy factory Arcor, DirecTV, \"El Cronista\" newspaper, Farmacity chain, \"Olé\" sports newspaper, the stereo and appliances Musimundo, the sports TV channel TyCSports and Monsanto, among others.\n\nUnder the leadership of Straschnoy, Young & Rubicam won awards at the major festivals worldwide, including more than twenty five Cannes Lions.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, it was chosen as the best advertising agency of the year in the Jerry Goldenberg Awards for Excellence in Communications and in 2011 it was the most awarded in Effie Awards.\n\nThe same year it was awarded Agency of the Year and received a ‘Lápiz de Platino’ Award ('Silver Pencil' Award). Under Straschnoy’s leadership, the agency won twenty ‘Lápiz de Platino’, seven of them where at TV category, five of which were as the best agency.\n\nAlso, they have more than fifty awards in different festivals such as Clio Awards, Wave Rio, San Sebastian, FIAP, Buenos Anuncios, Clarin Awards (Grand Prix), El Ojo de Iberoamerica, The Sun, New York and London Festival, among others.\n\nOn the other hand, Young & Rubicam won eleven Martín Fierro awards in the 'Best Advertising Notice' shortlist.\n\nThe agency also ranked first in the Global Ranking of Advertising Agencies, whose name is AgencyScope, which is conducted by the Spanish Consulting Group.\n\nCurrently, Straschnoy is the Chairman of Untold_, an ecosystem of communications professionals. He is also the CEO of The Juju, Untold_'s creative agency. He founded Carlos y Darío in early 2014, along with publicist Carlos Baccetti – founder of Latin American agency Agulla & Baccetti- a month after leaving Young & Rubicam.. The company quickly grew and was joined by other communications companies in what became Untold_. The company has offices in Buenos Aires, Sao Paulo, Medellín, New York City and Bogotá.\n\nSince its beginnings, the agency works with companies such as DirecTV and Quaker regionally, wines Álamos and Bravío from Catena Zapata winery, V Energy Drink, Toddy cookies by PepsiCo, the daily business \"El Cronista Comercial\", Noticias magazine from Perfil publishing, Industrial Bank and GranDT by \"Clarin\".\n\nFor Toddy cookies, Carlos y Darío filmed the first campaign created in collaboration with the followers of the brand in social networks like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat and Periscope, in a live basis. These commercials were broadcast on TV.\n\nAs for recognition, the agency won two ‘Lápiz de Oro’ at Mix Media category for the film \"Death in Buenos Aires\" campaign and its performance on social networks at Toddy cookies campaign. In addition, in 2015 it won its first Silver Young Lion in Cannes at ‘Print’ category.\n\nDarío Straschnoy was chosen as one of the men with the best reputation in the country by Merco ranking and consulting Villafañe y Asociados. In 2011, for example, he was ranked 29 and in 2013 he was the only employer in advertising industry that integrated the ranking. \n\nIn 1997 he won the Konex Award and was recognized as one of the top five advertisers of that decade. Ten years later, in 2007, he was part of the jury that chose the best advertisers of the past decade.\n\n"}
{"id": "17732209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17732209", "title": "Dolly Aglay", "text": "Dolly Aglay\n\nDolores “Dolly” Aglay-Elona (c.1967 – May 26, 2008) was a Filipino business and financial journalist who worked for the Manila news bureau of Reuters News Agency and the Philippine Star during her career.\n\nAglay joined Reuters as a business reporter in 1995. She had previously also worked as a business reporter for the Philippine Star. Aglay specialized in reporting on commodity stories, such as food pricing, while reporting for Reuters.\n\nDolly Aglay died of cancer, which she had been battling for almost 3 years, in Manila on May 26, 2008, at the age of 41. According to her husband, Philippine Star reporter Mel Elona, she had been disappointed that she could not report as actively on her stories while being treated for her illness. She \"kept talking about missing out on one of the biggest commodities stories of recent years in the Philippines, the rise in rice prices over the past few months.\"\n\nAglay was buried at Heritage Memorial Park in Manila on Sunday, June 1, 2008. She was survived by her husband, journalist Melchor “Mel” Elona, and their two children, Julian and Fides. She was also survived by her parents, Pastor Sr. and Maximiana, and her siblings, Josephine, Jane and Pastor Jr.\n\nIn 2009, Mel married his former fianceé and long-time friend, editor and short story author, May Alcalde, and now lives with her, their daughter Margarita, and Julian and Fides.\n"}
{"id": "39574897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39574897", "title": "Dulcie Boling", "text": "Dulcie Boling\n\nDulcie Boling (born Elizabeth Dulcie Boling on 29 March 1936) is an Australian businessperson and magazine editor.She was born in Kyrabram, Victoria in Australia. She was editor of New Idea magazine from 1977 to 1993. Boling was a senior executive of Southdown Press, which later became Pacific Magazines.She served as the chairperson and executive chairman of Southdown Press and Chief Executive Magazines of PMP Limited from 1992-1993.\n\nAustralian actor Rachel Griffiths played Boling in the Australian Broadcasting Corporation television mini-series \"\", a sequel to \"\".\n"}
{"id": "19817937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19817937", "title": "Eliana Benador", "text": "Eliana Benador\n\nEliana Benador (also Eleana Benador) is a Swiss-American public relations consultant, global strategist, and a publicist for American and Middle Eastern neo-conservatives. Through the development of Benador Associates, Benador was promoted national security policies advocated by the Bush administration concerning Iraqi regime change, the Iraq War, and hard-line attitudes toward Iran. As of 2007, Benador had closed Benador Associates and opened a new firm, Benador Public Relations.\n\nBenador studied linguistics, psychology and political science at the Sorbonne and the Université Catholique de Lille. Following university, she worked as an editor for the Peruvian Times and as a translator at the United Nations in Vienna. In 2000, Benador joined the Middle East Forum, an American conservative think tank, to work as the associate director of, and in charge of the expansion of, the Middle East Forum in New York, and she also was the media liaison of its founder Daniel Pipes. Benador left the MEF after eighteen months because of conflicts with Pipes. According to Pipes, they came to a mutual and amicable \"understanding that she would do better on her own.\"\n\nIn October 2001, Benador began her own public relations firm, Benador & Associates. After signing former C.I.A. director James Woolsey and \"Daily News\" columnist A.M. Rosenthal, Benador's firm built a clientele of American neo-conservatives. Benador was criticized for \"acting as a kind of public-relations firm for the war.\"\n\nIn January 2011, Benador was appointed Goodwill Ambassador of the Shomron (Samaria) Liaison Office in the U.S. and Europe. In that capacity, she addressed the Rally in Support of Israel across the Israel Consulate in New York City, offering proportional comparison by population of the United States to the numbers of Israeli victims of terrorist attacks; according to Benador the 1,200 Israelis victimized from 2000 to 2010 would correspond to 50,297 Americans, while the 8,342 wounded would compare to 350,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43688015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43688015", "title": "FSN analysis", "text": "FSN analysis\n\nIn FSN analysis, items are classified according to their rate of consumption. The items are classified broadly into three groups: F – means Fast moving, S – means Slow moving, N – means Non-moving. The FSN analysis is conducted generally on the following basis:\nFSN analysis helps a company in identification of the following\n"}
{"id": "41858031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41858031", "title": "Fishing license", "text": "Fishing license\n\nA fishing license (US), fishing licence or fishing permit is a regulatory or legal mechanism to control fishing. Licensing is one mechanism of fisheries management and may be required for either commercial or recreational fishing.\n\nIn 1765, the Chinese Qing dynasty government required all fishing boat operators to obtain a fishing license under the \"aojia\" system that regulated coastal populations. The Dan boat people of Guangdong had to acquire a fishing license as early as 1729. The wooden license issued by the government was to be displayed on the bow or stern of a boat. The information on the license consisted of the name and age of the boat's owner, the ship's status as either a fishing or commercial vessel, the home port of the boat, crew and family members on board, the date the license was issued, and the registration number of the license.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, licenses or permits may be required by a government, a property owner, or both.\n\nThe government requires a rod licence for anyone over the age of 12 who fishes in England, Wales or the Border Esk area in Scotland for salmon, trout, freshwater fish, smelt or eels. In addition, anyone who fishes in a non-estuarine stream, lake, or canal needs a permit from the owner of the fishing rights to the water body, which might be a local angling club, a landowner with riparian rights, or an organization such as the Canal & River Trust.\n\nIn Ireland, rights to fish in non-tidal freshwater also are owned either by the government or by private entities such as angling club. The ownership of fishing rights in Ireland derives from the confiscation of lands by the British Crown in the 17th century; the boundaries of fishing rights areas typically follow the boundaries of estates granted by the Crown.\n\nThe U.S. state of Oregon instituted a requirement for commercial fishing licenses in 1899, the same year that the state's sturgeon fishery had collapsed due to over-harvesting. Oregon began requiring recreational fishing licenses in 1901. Indiana began issuing hunting licenses in 1901 and added fishing privileges to its hunting license in 1913. The state of Pennsylvania first issued recreational fishing licenses in 1919. Licenses were required only for nonresidents, and only 50 licenses were issued that first year. In 1922, when the state first required licenses for state residents, over 2,700 nonresident licenses and over 200,000 resident licenses were sold.\n\nSome countries don't require a license for recreational sea fishing, provided that certain rules in regard to fish size, numbers and total catch are followed.\n\nRecreational fishing in the sea does not require a license in certain spots. Size limits need to be followed. Also need to have a freshwater permit when fishing on certain seadocks\n\nSea angling and spear fishing without diving equipment is allowed with no licence. Multiple species including seals, dolphins and turtles are protected.\n\nEstonians have a life-long right to fish with one simple hand line in waters owned by the state and local governments, provided that regulations about species, sizes and seasons are followed.\n\nNo license is necessary for recreational sea fishing. There are many detailed regulations about fish species, size limits, fishing methods and prohibited areas.\n\nSea fishing from the coast and from the boat is free for both residents and visitors, although there are minimum fish rules and other regulations.\n\nFor fishing in public waters no license is necessary. Foreign citizens are allowed to fish without license only with hand gear. License free fishing is legal along the sea coast (in many cases also on private land along the coast) and in Sweden's five largest lakes – Vänern, Vättern, Hjälmaren, Mälaren and Storsjön.\n\nFishing licence for sea fishing is not required in most of the places in the United Kingdom. For salmon and sea trout game licence is required regardless of location. In places where saltwater and freshwater cross over the regulations are complicated and licence may be required.\n\n"}
{"id": "8788317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8788317", "title": "Food marketing", "text": "Food marketing\n\nFood marketing brings together the food producer and the consumer through a chain of marketing activities.\n\nThe marketing of even a single food product can be a complicated process involving many producers and companies. The food marketing system is the largest direct and indirect nongovernment employer in the United States.\n\nPomeranz & Adler, 2015, define food marketing is defined as a chain of marketing activities that take place within the food system between a food organisation and the consumer. This has the potential to be a complicated procedure, as there are many processes that are used prior to the sale the food product. These include food processing, wholesaling, retailing, food service and transport. Due to these many processes, a multitude of organisations have to be involved in the sale of one food product. For example, approximately fifty-six organisations are involved in the making of one can of chicken noodle soup. These organisations not only include the processors who make the ingredients for the product, but also involve the companies who manufacture the cans, print the labels and transport the product. Therefore, on a global scale, the food marketing industry is one of the largest direct and indirect employers.\n\nFor Schaffner & Schroder, 1998, food marketing is the act of communicating to the consumer through a range of marketing techniques in order to add value to a food product and persuade the consumer to purchase. This includes all activities that occur in between the completion of a product through to the purchasing process of consumers. Food marketing systems differ worldwide due to the level of development in the particular country, economically and technologically (Kaynak, 1999). Understanding and interpreting a particular countries food marketing techniques also requires taking into account the socio-economic, cultural, legal-political and technological environment of that country (Kaynak, 1999).\n\nThere are three historical phases of food marketing: the fragmentation phase (before 1870–1880), the unification phase (1880–1950), and the segmentation phase (1950 and later).\n\nIn the fragmentation phase, the United States was divided into numerous geographic fragments because transporting food was expensive, leaving most production, distribution, and selling locally based.\n\nIn the unification phase, distribution was made possible by railroads, coordination of sales forces was made possible by the telegraph and telephone, and product consistency was made possible by advances in manufacturing. This new distribution system was led by meat processors such as Armour and Swift in midwestern cities and by companies such as Heinz, Quaker Oats, Campbell Soup, and Coca-Cola, which sold their brands nationally. Advertising in print media and direct marketing through demonstrations at stores and public venues were among the prime marketing tools. The initial Crisco campaign, in 1911, was an example.\n\nIn the segmentation phase (1950 and later) radio, television and internet advertising made it possible for a wider range of competing products to focus on different benefits and images and thus appeal to different demographic and psychographic markets. Distribution via the new national road system strengthened national brands.\n\nThe four components of food marketing are often called the \"four Ps\" of the marketing mix because they relate to product, price, promotion, and place. One reason food manufacturers receive the largest percentage of the retail food dollar is that they provide the most differentiating, value-added service. The money that manufacturers invest in developing, pricing, promotion, and placing their products helps differentiate a food product on the basis of both quality and brand-name recognition. Overall, the marketing mix can add value to a food organisation's product.\n\nIn deciding what type of new food products a consumer would most prefer, a manufacturer can either try to develop a new food product or try to modify or extend an existing food. For example, a sweet, flavored yogurt drink would be a new product, but milk in a new flavor (such as chocolate strawberry) would be an extension of an existing product. There are three steps to both developing and extending: generate ideas, screen ideas for feasibility, and test ideas for appeal. Only after these steps will a food product make it to national market. Of one hundred new food product ideas that are considered, only six make it to a supermarket shelf.\n\nThe food industry faces numerous marketing decisions. Money can be invested in brand building (through advertising and other forms of promotion) to increase either quantity demanded or the price consumers are willing to pay for a product. Coca-Cola, for example, spends a great deal of money both on perfecting its formula and on promoting the brand. This allows Coke to charge more for its product than can makers of regional and smaller brands.\nManufacturers may be able to leverage their existing brand names by developing new product lines. For example, Heinz started out as a brand for pickles but branched out into ketchup. Some brand extensions may involve a risk of damage to the original brand if the quality is not good enough. Coca Cola, for example, refused to apply the Coke name to a diet drink back when artificial sweeteners had a significantly less attractive taste. Coke created Tab Cola, but only when aspartame (NutraSweet) was approved for use in soft drinks did Coca Cola come out with a Diet Coke.\nManufacturers that have invested a great deal of money in brands may have developed a certain level of consumer brand loyalty—that is, a tendency for consumers to continue to buy a preferred brand even when an attractive offer is made by competitors. For loyalty to be present, it is not enough to merely observe that the consumer buys the same brand consistently. The consumer, to be brand loyal, must be able to actively resist promotional efforts by competitors. A brand loyal consumer will continue to buy the preferred brand even if a competing product is improved, offers a price promotion or premium, or receives preferred display space. Some consumers have multi-brand loyalty. Here, a consumer switches between a few preferred brands. The consumer may either alternate for variety or may, as a rule of thumb, buy whichever one of the preferred brands is on sale. This consumer, however, would not switch to other brands on sale. Brand loyalty is, of course, a matter of degree. Some consumers will not switch for a moderate discount, but would switch for a large one or will occasionally buy another brand for convenience or variety.\n\nThe product of the marketing mix refers to the goods and/or services that the organisation will offer to the consumer. An organisation can achieve this by either creating a new food product, or by modifying or improving an existing food product. For example, an organic almond yoghurt drink would be considered a new product, whereas a chocolate flavoured milk drink would be an extension of an existing product (Helm & Gritsch, 2014). The three steps to develop and extend a food product include generating ideas, analysing the ideas for feasibility and testing ideas for demand. Once these steps have successfully been completed, the food product can then be manufactured to the food market.\n\nIn profitably pricing the food, the manufacturer must keep in mind that the retailer adds approximately 50 percent to the price of a wholesale product. For example, a frozen food sold in a retail store for $4.50 generates an income of $3.00 for the manufacturer. This money has to pay for the cost of producing, packaging, shipping, storing, and selling the product.\n\nPrice encompasses the amount of money paid by the consumer in order to purchase the food product. When pricing the food products, the manufacturer must bear in mind that the retailer will add a particular percentage to the price on the wholesale product. This percentage amount differs globally. The percentage is used to pay for the cost of producing, packaging, shipping, storing and selling the food product. For example, the purchasing of a food product in a supermarket selling for $3.50 generates an income of $2.20 for the manufacturer.\n\nPromoting a food to consumers is done out of store, in store, and on package. Advertisements on television and in magazines are attempts to persuade consumers to think favorably about a product, so that they go to the store to purchase the product. In addition to advertising, promotions can also include Sunday newspaper ads that offer coupons such as cents-off and buy-one-get-one-free offers.\n\nPromotion of the marketing mix is defined as the actions used to communicate a food product's features and benefits; therefore, persuading the consumer to purchase the product. There are multiple avenues used to promote a food product to consumers. Some examples are out-of-store, in-store and on the packaging (Helm & Gritsch, 2014). Food advertisements on television are used to attract the consumer, persuading them to go to the store and purchase that food product. Additionally, promotions in magazines and newspapers may offer coupons for food products (Frechette, 2015).\n\nPlace refers to the distribution and warehousing efforts necessary to move a food from the manufacturer to a location where a consumer can buy it. It can also refer to where the product is located in a retail outlet (e.g., the end of an aisle; the top, bottom, or middle shelf; in a special display case, etc.).\n\nThe food marketing system in the United States is an amazingly flexible one. Consumer focus helps marketers anticipate the demands of consumers, and production focus helps them respond to changes in the market. The result is a system that meets and influences the ever-changing demands of consumers.\n\nPlace refers to the activities that organisations go about in order to make its food product available to its consumers. This encompasses the distribution necessary to move a food product from the manufacturer to a location where it can be purchased by the consumer. Product location in a store is also a definition of place in the marketing mix. For example, a particular place in an aisle, a shelf or a display in a supermarket (Helm & Gritsch, 2014).\n\nIn order to market its food products, an organisation must first understand whether its product will satisfy the consumer's needs better than competitors do (Noori, 2015). In order to achieve this, an organisation must understand the four types of segmentation.\n\nAn organisation must understand where it is marketing its food products to in a geographical sense (Schlanger & Maas, 2013). Clarifying this will help an organisation to grasp which food products will satisfy the needs of a particular consumer culture (Adeigbe, Baldwin, Gallion, Grier & Ramirez, 2015). For example, researching whether the consumer lives in America or Asia; or, whether the consumer lives in a city or a rural area (Schlanger & Maas, 2013). By understanding these aspects, the organisation will be able to identify that a consumers' food needs differ depending on where they live.\n\nA food organisation must understand the demographic segment that it will be marketing towards (David, Schramm-Kelin, Rank & Wanger, 2015). Factors that must be considered are a consumer's age, gender, education, social class, income, religion and ethnicity (Quinn & Dibb, 2010). All of these aspects can impact whether the consumer will prefer one food product over another.\n\nA food organisation must understand its consumer psychographic. Factors such as lifestyle, personalities, opinions, activities and interests of its potential consumers must considered (Schlanger & Maas, 2013). Identifying these aspects can help an organisation to improve its food products.\n\nA food organisation must understand how its consumers may behave towards a food product (David, Schramm-Kelin, Rank & Wanger, 2015). For example, information researching the benefits sought, frequency of food purchase, attitude towards the food product and nutritional knowledge of the product are all beneficial (Noori, 2015).\n\nIn recent years, food marketing has been criticised by professionals as being a major factor in contributing to childhood obesity. Nestle (2006) suggests that food marketing purposely targets children who are easily influenced at such a young age to eat high-sugar drinks and food with little nutritional benefit. The fact that areas of food marketing are linked to obesity is concerning, as well as how easy it is to market to children and affect their food choices. Television and print media still stand as the traditional communication channels for food marketing, but other popular approaches are also more prevalent these days. These include the Internet, toys, packaging, video games, blockbuster films, character licensing of children's toys and celebrity advertising (McGinnis, Appleton Gootman, & Kraak, 2006). The employment of these food marketing strategies are growing, and are said to be partly responsible for swelling rates of childhood obesity (Cartere, 2009).\n\nProduct placement in children's films and television shows gives food marketers more power to get children familiar with their brand and to directly interact with this market segment (Cartere, 2009). The power brands have through food marketing on television is significant because television audiences automatically are more enticed in an advertisement as it is playing in front of them, forming stronger predispositions for brands (Kline, 2010). Accusations come into play when this saturation happens as children are not equipped with adequate knowledge to make smart nutritional choices, and food marketing is therefore sometimes blamed for children's unhealthy lifestyles (Kline, 2010). Children are a fast expanding market segment, firstly because they yield influence over their parents buying, but also because they are future consumers themselves (Cartere, 2009). Food marketers capitalize on the fact most children trouble their parents for a product they have seen on television until they receive it, giving children high bargaining power. According to McGinnis et al. (2006), by the time children are two years old, the majority can identify brands in supermarkets and demand them by name. It has been argued that marketers also portray some foods to children as exclusive only to them, implying children know better about their nutrition than their parents. This has in turn seen trends of children disregarding parental advice and taking it upon themselves to pick and choose what they eat.\n\nFood marketers also use appealing packaging to attract children to their product through bright colours, including toys in schemes (McDonald's Happy Meals with a toy included is an example) and utilising famous television or film characters to spark interest (Cartere, 2009). In terms of packaging, brands will also change the size of products to entice children. Large companies have further been criticised of contributing to obesity through supplying schools with branded sponsorships and sports merchandise such as rugby balls that flaunt a company's logo (Cartere, 2009). Food marketers are criticised further than being responsible for child obesity rates, and are said to not have children's long-term physical wellbeing in mind when they aim to rapidly create brand name association among children (Frechette, 2015).\n\nIt has been shown through Frechette's (2015) studies that in recent years, as children and teenagers have become more exposed to technological advances, they have become more susceptible to unhealthy food marketing commercial messages from food organisations (Cairns, Angus, Hastings & Caraher, 2013). Harris, Pomeranz, Lobstein, & Brownell (2009) suggest that food marketers have been using child-targeting marketing practices in order to persuade children to eat unhealthy or poorly suitable foods. Organisations achieve this through direct and indirect marketing tactics on television adverts, games, social media and food packaging (Freeman, Kelly, Baur, Chapman, Chapman, Gill & King, 2014). These tactics have an explicit effect on children's consumption patterns, diet-related health, nutritional knowledge, purchase behaviour and preferences (Vandevijvere & Swinburn, 2015). Overall, it has been found that food marketing is one of the leading contributors to an increase in childhood obesity (Schor & Ford, 2007). This is increasingly becoming a global issue.\n\nIn order to prevent the current unhealthy food marketing culture, Sacks, Mialon, Vandevijvere, Trevena, Snowdon, Crino & Swinburn (2015) believe that there are methods and policies that should be put into place by governments. Firstly, parents should be informed of the nutritional values of the foods that they are giving to their children (Grier, Mensinger, Huang, Kumanyika & Stettler, 2007). For example, an easy-to-read nutritional label on food packaging that provides the nutrient values and their definitions (Nikolova & Inman, 2015). This will create healthier food environments for families around the world (Sacks et al., 2015). Secondly, parents could restrict which advertisements that their children are exposed to (Newman & Oates, 2014). For example, parents could use ad-blocking applications or limit television watching time (Thaichon & Quach, 2016). Through the implementation of these strategies, governments can contribute in decreasing the rates of childhood obesity through food marketing.\n\nIn order to persuade consumers to buy food products, organisations may present misleading nutritional information on its food products (Schermel, Emrich, Arcand, Wong & L'abbé, 2013). It has become more prevalent that food organisations are not entirely transparent in regard to what is contained in its food products. For example, saturated fats, sodium and added sugars (Harris, LoDolce & Schwartz, 2015). Wording such as \"less sugar\", \"fat free\" and \"all natural\" lead consumers to believe that the foods they are consuming are healthy (Nikolova & Inman, 2015). Sacks et al. (2015) discusses that in order to prevent misleading food advertising, governments should implement policies regarding the placement of verified nutritional values on food packaging.\n\nFood marketing not only involves the marketing of products to consumers, but the reasons why consumers purchase these items and the factors influencing such choices (Sahay, Stough, Sohal, & Goyal, 2006). Demographics, values and attitudes, incentives, and price willingness to pay are all elements that drive buyer selection in the marketing of food.\n\nFirstly, food marketers must be aware that the attitudes and values of their target market play a significant role in what they choose to buy. For example, in terms of the green brand market, consumers will first be environmentally conscious and therefore intend to buy such products. Once a product has been marketed to a consumer, they need to feel that they are contributing to the preservation of the environment to purchase something (Kapuge, 2016). Consumers that have concern for the environment tend to alter their behavior to be more environmentally friendly. Values and attitudes have been found to be the driving force of sustainable purchasing behavior (Kapuge, 2016). Marketers need to convey to their consumer market through information that some items have adverse effects on the environment. Brands need to also relay the values of food marketing to customers when communicating with them (Sahay et al., 2006).\n\nIn relation to knowledge and beliefs in variables affecting food marketing decisions, it has been suggested that someone's understanding of products helps anticipate their ecologically friendly actions (Nikolova & Inman, 2015). Because a persons awareness of information can cause them to make more informed or less informed decisions about products shows knowledge is a major factor in consumer buying choices. When strategists are food marketing, it is important to create binding relationships with potential customers through understanding their beliefs and awareness about the marketed product (Nikolova & Inman, 2015).\n\nDemographics play a large role in determining the background of consumers and how food marketing operates. Such as age allows a brand to market its food towards certain age groups according to their wants. Education also comes into play because often education is associated with people buying better food (Sahay et al., 2006). Income alike sees if people have more disposable income to spend on good products. Gender further allows food marketers to target women especially because women have been found to do the majority of food shopping in families (Sahay et al., 2006).\n\nSignage conveys a lot about a brand, for example what type of food they sell, the ingredients, where it was made and the cost of the products. Signage precisely communicates with the buyer and is an essential way to affect feelings and brain processes of a person (Remar, Campbell, & DiPietro, 2016). Findings show that certain digital signposting of a brand influences consumer perception and behavior towards a product, meaning food marketing strategies like this are very effective in brand positioning (Nikolova & Inman, 2015).\n\nLastly, consumer price willingness to pay is another tool used in food marketing to track how much a person is prepared to pay for a product. Marketers can take note of people's readiness to pay to see if they would indeed buy their product (Remar et al., 2016). Studies have shown that consumers are prepared to spend more on an item if it is environmentally friendly and portrays them as having sustainable behavior in society (Remar et al., 2016). Additionally, it has been explored that consumers will for example pay substantially more (almost 50%) for food produce that is said to be grown locally as opposed to grown in the wider country or imported (Remar et al., 2016). This is vital information when it comes to food marketing and helps companies make informed decisions about their food marketing strategies.\n\nCorporate spending on sponsorship worldwide grew 5.1% in 2015 reaching $57.5 billion, with the biggest spenders on sponsorships being food and beverage giants PepsiCo and Coca-Cola, spending $350m and $290m respectively. Professional sporting events are primary targets for food companies when utilising sponsorship as a form a marketing communication, however sports organisations are increasingly demanding high prices for access to their exploitable marketing rights. Food and beverage company MillerCoors were willing to spend $3.8m for a 30-second commercial during Super Bowl XLVII. Global food brand have also been seen to increase their marketing effort through sponsorships of amateur sporting events. In 2010 Yum! Brands paid $13.5m to name a university basketball stadium the ‘bucket’, creating the KFC stadium, similarly Papa John’s purchased the naming rights of a college stadium for $5M. Food companies are also investing millions into individual athletes in return for accesses to their exploitable commercial potential. Peyton Manning reportedly earns $10M per year from sponsorship alone, with the highest percentage of sponsorship coming from Papa John’s and Gatorade; similarly Kobe Bryant’s sponsorship from McDonald's was reportedly worth $12M.\n\nWith regards to marketing according to Liaw and Tam (2015), ethics deals with moral principles behind the operation of marketing. The main ethical issue surrounding sponsorship being utilised as a form of marketing communication by food companies is the sponsorship of sport from perceived unhealthy food and beverage companies, such as McDonald's and Coca-Cola’s sponsorship of the Olympics.[19] Although different in many ways, similarities have been drawn between the marketing practices of tobacco companies and the food industry. At major sporting events, customers are exposed to a multitude of food-related sponsorship, with sponsorship associated with products classed as unhealthy twice as common as those classed as healthy (32.7% versus 15.5%). Sponsorships of sport from food or beverage companies that are perceived as unhealthy pose great health concern, often being cited as a contributing factor leading to an energy-dense and nutrient poor diet.\n\nOther ethical concerns with sponsorship being used as a marketing tactic by food companies include; the specific targeting of youths, sponsorship from alcohol brands and the misconceptions created through sponsorships by energy drink brands such as Red Bull.\n\nSocial media platforms are an effective way for food marketers to enter or attract a market. 'Social media' refers to websites such as Facebook and Twitter, and apps such as Instagram and Facebook. These websites allow users to upload and share content such as information, pictures, opinions and recommendations with the touch of a button. Food companies use unique marketing techniques designed to connect with the consumer such as running competitions, holding free giveaways and creating interactive games and apps. (Freeman et al., 2014) The benefits of these techniques are distinctive to social media platforms, as they interact and engage with the consumer on a level that other traditional media platforms are not capable. (Freeman et al., 2014) Studies have shown that adolescents' share food images on Instagram and that many of these contain brand-related details such as logos (Holmberg et al., 2016).\n\nA study of supermarket catalogues distributed globally has also yielded information which supports the claim that food advertising is contributing to rising global obesity levels, especially in countries where the advertising is more prominent, consistent and persuasive. The study concluded with the findings that supermarket catalogues have a major influence on the purchasing decisions and patterns of consumers. (Charlton et al., 2015) For example, countries with the most consistent, regular catalogues filled with unhealthy foods were among those testing highest for obesity as well. The study also noted that India and The Philippines were the only countries analysed that advertised a vast majority of healthy foods over unhealthy options. (Charlton et al., 2015).\n\nProduct placement is another food marketing technique that draws the consumer in and encourages them to purchase. Vending machines and pop-up sample booths are model examples of product placement techniques used by food marketers. Vending machines provide convenience to the consumer as they are usually stationed in areas with no larger food options nearby, such as university campuses and gyms. Consumers using vending machines will usually pay a slightly higher price for the item, and will usually not be concerned as the price difference accounts for the convenience provided to them.\n\nThere are no set worldwide food marketing laws or legislation, therefore countries have the option to adopt their own legislation with regards to food marketing standards. (Restrict Food Marketing, 2016). These standards are usually based on the values, culture and ethics of the particular country (Kaynak, 1999). Many countries worldwide have created laws in order to limit food marketing towards children with the goal of reducing rising obesity levels. (Restrict Food Marketing, 2016). Obesity has been proven to have increased significantly with a link to the increase of food marketing and advertising in society. (Dibb & Lobstein, 2005).\n\nFollowing a 'call out' from the Worldwide Health Organisation in 2006, many countries adopted to change marketing laws and legislation in order to protect children from persuasive advertisements directly targeted at them. These advertisements are strategically designed with special techniques in order to attract the children's attention.\n\nThe Chilean Government has taken some of the most drastic steps in 2012 by approving the 'Law of Nutritional Composition of Food and Advertising'. (Restrict Food Marketing, 2016). This law gives strict guidelines for food marketers, allowing no high in saturated fat, sodium and sugar products to be advertised to under 14 year olds or through television or websites with an audience or more than 20% children. (Restrict Food Marketing, 2016). Iran has also taken similar actions, having banned the advertisement of all soft drinks since 2004. Iran's Ministry of Health and Medical Education has also prepared a document in 2015 containing 24 items in which they hope to prohibit the advertising of in future. (Restrict Food Marketing, 2016). Dibb and Lobstein acknowledge that traditional media outlets only account for approximately 20% of a food marketer's budget, therefore children are still highly exposed to influential advertising in shopping malls and grocery stores, vending machines, sponsored toys, contests etc. (Dibb & Lobstein, 2005).\n\nIn addition to Iran and Chile's more extensive legislation's, over 30 countries worldwide have all adopted some form of legislation to protect children and reduce their exposure to advertisements. Some of these countries include Australia, Europe, Canada, Malaysia and Korea. An example of the type of clauses in the legislation's include prohibiting the use of certain marketing techniques such as using cartoon characters, which can be used to access a child's mind and gain their attention. Using physiological techniques such as this can be ethically wrong as well as illegal in some countries.\n\nAdvertising to children at a young age is a well-established food marketing technique designed to encourage brand preference and holds many ethical dilemmas. Previous studies have concluded that children can recognize and mentally picture brand logos at the age of just six months old, and will verbally request brands at the age of 3 years. (As reported by The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood). Marketing professor James McNeal acknowledged \"The Drool Factor\" – a study which recognized the fact that babies naturally stare down at their bibs while drooling to see where their drool lands. Customizing baby bibs with brand logos has become an effective way for food marketers to imprint their brand into the child's lifestyle, targeting them at a vulnerable young age resulting in brand recognition from the child. As a result, when the child is older they will continue to reciprocate warm, fond feelings towards the brand when encountering it in society. This is seen as unethical in many countries and is why organisations such as 'The Campaign for a Commercial-free Childhood' exist and what they aim to reduce.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38280955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38280955", "title": "Gap Inc.", "text": "Gap Inc.\n\nThe Gap, Inc., commonly known as Gap Inc. or Gap, (stylized as GAP) is an American worldwide clothing and accessories retailer.\n\nIt was founded in 1969 by Donald Fisher and Doris F. Fisher and is headquartered in San Francisco, California. The company operates five primary divisions: Gap (the namesake banner), Banana Republic, Old Navy, Intermix, Weddington Way, and Athleta. Gap Inc. is the largest specialty retailer in the United States, and is 3rd in total international locations, behind Inditex Group and H&M. As of September 2008, the company has approximately 135,000 employees and operates 3,727 stores worldwide, of which 2,406 are located in the U.S.\n\nThe Fisher family remains deeply involved in the company, collectively owning much of its stock. Donald Fisher served as Chairman of the Board until 2004, playing a role in the ouster of then-CEO Millard Drexler in 2002, and remained on the board until his death on September 27, 2009. Fisher's wife and their son, Robert J. Fisher, also serve on Gap's board of directors. Robert succeeded his father as chairman in 2004 and also served as CEO on an interim basis following the resignation of Paul Pressler in 2007, before being succeeded by Glenn K. Murphy up until 2014. On February 1, 2015, Art Peck took over as CEO of Gap Inc.\n\nIn 1959, Don Fisher, a California commercial real estate broker specializing in retail store location, was a social friend of Walter \"Wally\" Haas Jr, President of Levi Strauss & Co. Fisher was inspired by the sudden success of 'The Tower of Shoes' in an old Quonset Hut in a non-retail industrial area of Sacramento, California. a terrible retail location), that drew crowds by advertising that no matter what brand, style or size of shoes a woman could want it was at The Tower of Shoes. And knowing that even Macy's, the biggest Levi's customer, was constantly running out of the best selling Levi's sizes, and colors, Fisher asked Haas to let him copy The Tower of Shoes' business model and apply it to Levi's products. Haas referred Fisher to Bud Robinson, his Director of Advertising, for what Haas assumed would be a quick refusal; but instead Robinson and Fisher carefully worked out a legal test plan for what was to become The Gap (named by Don's wife Doris Fisher). \n\nFisher agreed to stock only Levi's apparel in every style and size, all grouped by size, and Levi's guaranteed The Gap to be never out of stock by overnight replenishment from Levi's San Jose, California warehouse. And finally, Robinson offered to pay 50% of The Gap's radio advertising upfront and avoided antitrust laws by offering the same marketing package to any store that agreed to sell nothing but Levi's products.\nFisher opened the first Gap store on Ocean Avenue in San Francisco on August 21, 1969; its only merchandise consisted of Levi's and LP records to attract teen customers. \n\nIn 1970, Gap opened its second store in San Jose. In 1971, Gap established its corporate headquarters in Burlingame, California with four employees. By 1973, the company had over 25 locations and had expanded into the East Coast market with a store in the Echelon Mall in Voorhees, New Jersey. In 1974, Gap began to sell private-label merchandise.\n\nIn the 1990s, Gap assumed an upscale identity and revamped its inventory under the direction of Millard Drexler. However, Drexler was removed from his position after 19 years of service in 2002 after over-expansion, a 29-month slump in sales, and tensions with the Fisher family. Drexler refused to sign a non-compete agreement and eventually became CEO of J. Crew. One month after his departure, merchandise that he had ordered was responsible for a strong rebound in sales. Robert J. Fisher recruited Paul Pressler as the new CEO; he was credited with closing under-performing locations and paying off debt. However, his focus groups failed to recover the company's leadership in its market.\n\nIn 2007, Gap announced that it would \"focus [its] efforts on recruiting a chief executive officer who has deep retailing and merchandising experience ideally in apparel, understands the creative process and can effectively execute strategies in large, complex environments while maintaining strong financial discipline\". That January, Pressler resigned after two disappointing holiday sales seasons and was succeeded by Robert J. Fisher on an interim basis. He began working with the company in 1980 and joined the board in 1990, and would later assume several senior executive positions, including president of Banana Republic and the Gap units. The board's search committee was led by Adrian Bellamy, chairman of The Body Shop International and included founder Donald Fisher. On February 2, Marka Hansen, the former head of the Banana Republic division, replaced Cynthia Harriss as the leader of the Gap division. The executive president for marketing and merchandising Jack Calhoun became interim president of Banana Republic. In May, Old Navy laid off approximately 300 managers in lower volume locations to help streamline costs. That July, Glenn Murphy, previously CEO of Shoppers Drug Mart in Canada, was announced as the new CEO of Gap, Inc. New lead designers were also brought on board to help define a fashionable image, including Patrick Robinson for Gap Adult, Simon Kneen for Banana Republic, and Todd Oldham for Old Navy. Robinson was hired as chief designer in 2007, but was dismissed in May 2011 after sales failed to increase. However, he enjoyed commercial success in international markets. In 2007, Ethisphere Magazine chose Gap from among thousands of companies evaluated as one of 100 \"World's Most Ethical Companies.\" \n\nIn October 2011, Gap Inc. announced plans to close 189 US stores, nearly 21 percent, by the end of 2013; however, it also plans to expand its presence in China. The company announced it would open its first stores in Brazil in the Fall of 2013.\n\nIn January 2015, Gap Inc announced plans to close their subsidiary Piperlime in order to focus on their core brands. The first and only Piperlime store, based in SoHo, New York City, closed in April.\n\nIn September 2018, Gap Inc began publicizing Hill City, a men's athletic apparel brand that launched in October 2018.\n\nGap Inc. owns a trademark to its name, \"Gap\". The Gap's original trademark was a service mark for \"retail clothing store services\". The application was filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on February 29, 1972, by The Gap Stores; registration was granted on October 10, 1972. The first use of the trademark was on August 23, 1969, and expanded to commercial usage on October 17, 1969. A second application was filed by Gap Stores, Inc. on September 12, 1974, this time for a trademark filed for shirts. The first usage for shirts and clothing products was on June 25, 1974. Trademark registration was granted on December 28, 1976. Both the service mark and trademark are registered and owned by Gap (Apparel), LLC of San Francisco, California.\n\nOn October 4, 2010, in an effort to establish a contemporary presence, Gap introduced a new logo. It was designed with the Helvetica font and reduced the prominence of the brand's iconic blue box. After much public outcry, the company reverted to its previous \"blue box\" logo on October 12, after less than a week in use. Marka Hansen, the executive who oversaw the logo change, resigned February 1, 2011.\n\nBanana Republic, a small safari-themed clothing retailer, was purchased by Gap in 1983 and was rebranded as an upscale clothing retailer in the late 1980s. \n\nOld Navy was launched in 1994 as a value chain with a specialty flair.\n\nForth & Towne, the company's fourth traditional retail concept, was launched on August 24, 2005, featuring apparel targeted toward women 35 years and older. On February 26, 2007, after an 18-month trial period, it was discontinued, and the 19 stores were closed. \n\nA fifth brand, the online clothing and accessories retailer Piperlime, was created in 2006; however, as of April 2015, the brand has been retired. \n\nAthleta\n\nA sixth brand, Athleta, a women's athletic wear line, was added in 2009. It is still an active brand. \n\nIntermix, a multi-brand fashion retailer founded in 1993, was acquired by Gap Inc. in 2012.\n\nThe Gap originally targeted the younger generation when it opened, with its name referring to the generation gap of the time. It originally sold everything that Levi Strauss & Co made in every style, size, and color, and organized the stock by size. The Gap was the first of many shops that carried only Levi's. In 1973, Gap started making their own jeans as a way to differentiate themselves from department stores. Gap inc is doing market segmentation. Gap's current marketing works to appeal to a broad demographic of customers, whereas Banana Republic presents a sophisticated image with an self expressing easygoing personality and Old Navy focuses \"fun, fashion, and value\" for families and younger customers. While the company has been criticized for blandness and uniformity in its selling environments, it maintains that it tailors its stores \"to appeal to unique markets\" by developing multiple formats and designs. The domain \"www.gap.com\" attracts over 18 million visitors annually, according to a 2008 Compete.com survey. The brand is being criticized in the UK because the merchandise that is offered to the UK customers cost double the prices (or even a direct $/£ swap) found in the United States. Gap also does not offer XXL or larger sizes in the UK stating the UK market does not require them in contrast to market leader NEXT who offer a variety of larger sizes in the UK.\n\nGap operates company-owned stores in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Ireland, Japan, China, and Taiwan . Including both company-owned and franchised stores, there are Gap, Banana Republic, Athleta, Intermix, or Old Navy stores in 43 countries. In January 2008, Gap signed a deal with Marinopoulos Group to open Gap and Banana Republic stores in Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, and Croatia. In February 2009, Elbit Imaging, Ltd. secured a franchise to open and operate Gap and Banana Republic stores in Israel. In August 2010, the company opened its first store in Melbourne, Australia at Chadstone Shopping Centre. In September 2011, Komax opened the first Gap store in Chile, due to a franchise. In October 2011, the first GAP store opened in Warsaw, Poland, but shut it down and two other locations in Wrocław and Katowice in 2015. Gap now has a store in New Delhi, India which opened in May 2015. On February 20, 2016, Gap launched stores in Mumbai at Oberoi Mall and Infinity-2.\n\nIn May 2016, Gap Inc. announced it would shutter all Old Navy stores in Japan in response to poor Q1 performance for Old Navy and consistent losses across the organization.\n\nIn 2017, Gap closed all seven of its stores in Israel. In 2018, Gap closed all its stores in Australia.\n\nIn 2006, Gap took part in the Product Red campaign with the launch of a special RED collection, including a T-shirt manufactured in Lesotho from African cotton. The expanded Gap Product Red collection was released on October 13, 2006. 50 to 100 percent of the profits went to the Global Fund, depending on the item. The company continued the products into 2007, especially in the lead up to Valentine's Day, using slogans such as \"Admi(RED)\" and \"Desi(RED).\" National Labor Committee for Worker and Human Rights activists criticized Gap's partnerships because Gap has historically been accused of sweatshop-like conditions. Product Red has contributed over $45 million to the Global Fund, more than any other private donation received to date. Other launch partners included American Express, Apple Inc., Converse, Hallmark, Emporio Armani, and Motorola.\n\nReports from news outlets of sweatshop workers in Saipan not being paid for overtime work, being subjected to forced abortion, and being required to work in unsafe working conditions surfaced in 1999. In 2003, a class action lawsuit against Gap and 21 other companies was started which ended when a settlement of 20 million dollars was reached.\n\nIn May 2006, adult and child employees of Western Factory, a supplier in Irbid, Jordan, were found to have worked up to 109 hours per week and to have gone six months without being paid. Some employees claimed they had been raped by managers. The government of Jordan launched an investigation into the supplier and other textile factories and announced actions to prevent future abuses. Walmart, who also sources from the supplier, confirmed \"serious problems with working conditions\" at Western Factory and other Jordanian suppliers. , Gap had ceased their relationship with Western Factory.\n\nOn October 28, 2007, BBC footage showed child labor in Indian Gap factories. The company denied knowledge of the happenings; it subsequently removed and destroyed the single piece of clothing in question, a smock blouse, from a British store. Gap promised to investigate breaches in its ethical policy.\n\nOn February 19, 2014, Glenn Murphy, CEO of Gap Inc., announced Gap will raise the minimum wages for its 65,000 U.S. store employees.\n\nThe current leadership is:\n\nBoard :\n\nAs of the end of Q3 2018, Gap Inc. had 3,688 company-operated or franchised stores in operation across 43 countries and had the ability to ship to 90 countries. Stores in Brazil, Canada, China, France, Italy, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, UK, and US (including Puerto Rico) are company-owned; those outside of these countries are owned and operated by franchises.\n\n\nGap sorry for selling T-shirt with 'incorrect' map of China\n\n"}
{"id": "44054025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44054025", "title": "Giovanni Malagò", "text": "Giovanni Malagò\n\nGiovanni Malagò (born 13 March 1959) is an Italian businessman, sports manager and former futsal player. He is the current president of the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI).\n\nBorn in Rome, since his youth Malagò practiced different sports and notably futsal, in which discipline he won 3 league titles with Roma RCB and in 1986 he attended with the national team the World Cup in Brazil. After graduating in economics, he became CEO of Samocar, a car sales company founded by his father Vincenzo in 1977. As a sports manager he became chairman of the sports club Aniene Rowing Club in 1997 and then he was chairman of the organizing committee of the Italian Open of tennis.\n\nIn 2000 Malagò became a member of the Executive of the Italian National Olympic Committee, dealing with many international sporting events organized in Italy, such as the European Volleyball Championship in 2005 and the World Swimming Championships in 2009. On 19 February 2013 he was resoundingly elected President of CONI against Raffaele Pagnozzi, secretary general of the Committee since 1993, who had the support of the outgoing President Gianni Petrucci and of the major sports federations including the Italian Football Federation.\n"}
{"id": "23142728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23142728", "title": "Global saving glut", "text": "Global saving glut\n\nA global saving glut (also global savings glut, GSG, cash hoarding, dead cash, dead money, glut of excess intended saving, or shortfall of investment intentions) is a situation in which desired saving exceeds desired investment. By 2005 Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, expressed concern about the \"significant increase in the global supply of saving\" and its implications for monetary policies, particularly in the United States. Although Bernanke's analyses focused on events in 2003 to 2007 that led to the 2007–2009 financial crisis, regarding GSG countries and the United States, excessive saving by the non-financial corporate sector (NFCS) is an ongoing phenomenon, affecting many countries. Bernanke's \"celebrated (if sometimes disputed)\" global saving glut (GSG) hypothesis argued that increased capital inflows to the United States from GSG countries were an important reason that U.S. longer-term interest rates from 2003 to 2007 were lower than expected.\n\nAlan Greenspan testifying at the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in 2010 explained, \"Whether it was a glut of excess intended saving, or a shortfall of investment intentions, the result was the same: a fall in global real long-term interest rates and their associated capitalization rates. Asset prices, particularly house prices, in nearly two dozen countries accordingly moved dramatically higher. U.S. house price gains were high by historical standards but no more than average compared to other countries.\"\n\nA 2007 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) report noted that the \"excess of gross saving over fixed investment (i.e. net lending) in the \"aggregate OECD corporate sector\" had been unusually large since 2002. In a 2006 International Monetary Fund report, it was observed that, \"since the bursting of the equity market\nbubble in the early 2000s, companies in many industrial countries have moved from their traditional position of borrowing funds to finance their capital expenditures to running financial surpluses that they are now lending to other sectors of the economy\". David Wessell in a \"Wall Street Journal\" article observed that, \"[c]ompanies, which normally borrow other folks’ savings in order to invest, have turned thrifty. Even companies enjoying strong profits and cash flow are building cash hoards, reducing debt and buying back their own shares—instead of making investment bets.\" Although the hypothesis of excess cash holdings or cash hoarding has been used by the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and the media (\"Wall Street Journal\", \"Forbes\", Canadian Broadcasting Corporation), the concept itself has been disputed and criticized as conceptually flawed in articles and reports published by the Hoover Institute, the Max-Planck Institute and the CATO Institute among others. Ben Bernanke used the phrase \"global savings glut\" in 2005 linking it to the U.S. current account deficit.\n\nIn their July 2012 report Standard & Poor's described the \"fragile equilibrium that currently exists in the global corporate credit landscape\". U.S. NFCS firms continued to hoard a \"record amount of cash\" with large profitable investment-grade companies and technology and health care industries (with significant amounts of cash overseas), holding most of the wealth.\n\nBy January 2013, NFCS firms in Europe had over 1 trillion euros of cash on their balance sheets, a record high in nominal terms.\n\nWhen the equity market bubble burst, in the early 2000s, companies in many industrial countries cut down on borrowing funds to finance their capital expenditures. They began running financial surpluses that they lent to other sectors of the economy.\n\nIn 2003–2004 the non-financial corporate sector in member nations of the Group of Seven (G-7) held $US 1.3 trillion of corporate excess saving.\n\nBy 2011 Statistics Canada reported that Canadian business were \"sitting on more than $583 billion in Canadian currency and deposits, and more than $276 billion in foreign currency\".\n\nDuring and after the Great Recession of the late 2000s levels of economic and policy uncertainty rose dramatically contributing to the depth of the recession and the weakness of the following recovery with many corporations globally and avoiding investments and increasing their cash holdings, in what has been called \"liquidity hoarding\", \"cash hoarding\" or \"dead cash\".\n\nIn March 2013 Moody's Investors Service published their report entitled \"Cash Pile Grows 10% to $1.45 Trillion; Overseas Holdings Continue to Expand\" in their Global Credit Research series, in which they examined companies they rate in the US non-financial corporate sector (NFCS). According to their report, by the end of 2012 the US NFCS held \"$1.45 trillion in cash,\" 10% more than in 2001. At the end of 2011, US NFCS held $1.32 trillion in cash which was already a record level. \"Of the $1.32 trillion for all the rated companies, Moody's estimates that $840 billion, or 58% of the total cash, is held overseas.\"\nBy the end of 2012 Apple, Microsoft, Google, Pfizer, and Cisco, \"cash kings\", as Moody's called them, held $347 billion at the end of 2012 compared to $278 billion in 2011.\n\nAt the end of 2012 Ford Motor Company's cash balance was $22.9 billion and was listed as ten on the list of U.S. non-financial corporation sector's top ten cash kings by Moody's Investors Service in their March 2013 annual report on Global Credit Research.\n\nIn his article in April 2013 Federal Reserve Bank Economist, Kevin Kliesen investigated some of the causes of the \"recent upsurge in hoarding of cash by firms\" or \"increased accumulation of cash on corporate balance sheets\" in the United States. He suggested a number of valid reasons including \"increased levels of economic uncertainty\", \"increased competition, especially in the information technology sector\" and \"financing of research and development\". Kliesen also argued that another reason for cash hoarding in the U.S. is the \"relatively high U.S. corporate tax rate on income generated from foreign operations and subsidiaries\".\n\nIn an article published in The Economist in 2005, it was argued that the consumer boom was built on the unreliable foundation of rising house prices and that corporations were waiting for housing prices to level off or decline before they are willing to invest rather than save.\n\nFinancial liabilities have increased at U.S. NFCS firms, suggesting they may be taking advantage of low interests rates, and saving this cash as unused financial assets for future use.\n\nIn 2005 Bernanke identified a number of possible causes for the global saving glut that began in 2001, including pension funding to make provision for an impending increase in the number of retirees relative to the number of workers. \"Dearth of domestic investment opportunities\", due to slowly growing or declining work forces, and high capital-labor ratios, which leads to low returns on domestic investment. As a result, the mature industrial economies seek to run current account surpluses and thus to lend abroad.\n\nRBC Global Asset Management's Chief Economist, Eric Lascelles, also argued that NFCS firms were building financial assets as a precautionary measure, claiming that in 2011 \"private U.S. defined-benefit pension plans were underfunded by $USD 909 billion\", whereas they \"were roughly balanced in 2007\".\n\nAt the 1998 International Finance Conference, in their paper entitled \"Bank Power and Cash Holdings: Evidence from Japan\", Pinkowitz and Williamson showed that Japanese firms held more cash than U.S. or German firms. They concluded that the \"monopoly power of Japanese banks\" persuaded non-financial corporations to hold larger cash balances. \"During periods with powerful banks, firms' high cash holdings are consistent with banks extracting rents.\" When banks weakened, NFCS firms held lower cash levels. Firms might take fewer risks in countries with bank-centered governance but \"banks' incentives might not coincide with those of shareholders\".\n\nU.S. NFCS firms' rationale behind increasing cash holdings and restrained capital expenditures is most often linked to policy uncertainty. At the end of 2012 NFCS firms faced \"uncertainty regarding economic growth, the fiscal cliff, the debt ceiling, the pursuit of a sustainable long-term fiscal trajectory, health-care reform and financial-sector reform\". The Policy Uncertainty Index was elevated at that time.\n\nIn 2005 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. observed that the increase in excess saving in the corporate sector contributed to the \"relatively low level of global long-term interest rates at a time of a ballooning U.S. current account deficit\". Greenspan argued that the excess saving resulted in a \"fall in global real long-term interest rates and their associated capitalization rates. Asset prices, particularly house prices, in nearly two dozen countries accordingly moved dramatically higher. U.S. house price gains were high by historical standards but no more than average compared to other countries.\"\n\nThe United States was already experiencing a dramatic increase in its current account deficit Bernanke argued that the GSG caused the rise in current account deficits. A \"current account deficit means that a country is spending more than it is producing\".\n\nLow capital expenditure (capex) is frequently cited as hindering economic recovery although economists are not in agreement on this. Eric Lascelles, explained the rationale behind the surge in corporate saving. He argued that NFCS firms continued to be restrained in terms of capital expenditure for a variety of reasons. Equipment and software prices have dropped since 1992 allowing them to purchase more with less. In the United States, there is an oversupply of capital stock which includes physical capital, office space, plants and equipment in the U.S. Existing capital is not depreciating rapidly and firms are running under capacity. NFCS firms began deleveraging after the financial crisis as they found that their assets were \"worth less than they imagined and discovered that continuous access to debt markets was not guaranteed\". They channeled resources to the financial account and asset liquidity, away from capital expenditures.\n\nIn 2013 Gareth Williams, Director, Sector Economist at Standard & Poor's argued that a \"large and growing share of European corporate capex was directed to emerging markets\" outside of Europe, \"up 42% from January 2012 and up from 28% from 2007\". Williams claims there is \"a strong precautionary motive in the amount of cash being held\" by NFCS firms, in the eurozone European Economic and Monetary Union which is \"trapped in a quagmire of austerity, high unemployment, and political uncertainty\".\n\nDeveloping countries became net lenders on capital markets. United States and other advanced economies became net borrowers. University of California, Berkeley economist Obstfeld observed, that Bernanke and other proponents of the global saving glut account of the 2007–09 crisis argued that large surpluses by China (and other GSG countries) had adverse effects on richer countries' current accounts and financial markets. To avoid the consequences of financial crises, developing countries built up \"war chests\" of large quantities of foreign-exchange reserves to act as a buffer against potential capital outflows during financial crises.\n\nAccording to Bernanke the US was attractive for foreign investors because of new technologies and rising productivity. Capital flowing into the United States increased the value of the dollar making the imports of the US cheap (in terms of dollars) and exports expensive (in terms of foreign currencies), creating a rising US current account deficit. GSG countries accumulated reserves in the \"context of foreign exchange interventions intended to promote export-led growth by preventing exchange-rate appreciation\".(sometimes called Bretton Woods II).\n\nIn Robert Lucas' classical paradox described in the article entitled \"Why doesn't capital flow from rich to poor countries?\" and published in 1990 in the \"American Economic Review\", Lucas questioned the validity of the assumptions of the neoclassical model that gave rise to differences in the marginal product of capital. For example, in 1988 in India, a poorer country at that time, the marginal product of capital should have been 58 greater than in the United States, a richer nation. Lucas did not observe such flows. Lucas argued that the central question of economic development should be to replace these assumptions.\n\nIn an open economy, a country's spending in any given year need not to equal its output of goods and services. A country can spend more money than it produces by borrowing from abroad, or it can spend less than it produces and lend the difference to foreigners. Even though some economies are more open or closed than others, there are no closed economies in the strict sense of the definition in today's world.\n\nThe Canadian government introduced business incentives along with corporate tax reductions \"to compel Canadian corporations to invest some $525 billion of dead cash back into the economy\". In their analysis of the 2012 budget the Canadian Labour Congress argued that \"non-financial corporations\" have used their federal incentives and tax cuts to \"buy up their own shares, to increase dividends, and to increase their cash holdings\" which amounted to \"close to $500 billion of surplus cash\" that they were not investing in job creation.\n\nIn August 2012 then Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney \"castigated corporations in Canada for their high levels of savings, saying firms should either spend their ample financial reserves or return the value to shareholders through buy-backs\". \"Financial Post\" journalist Philip Cross argued that \"It is the job of companies to make money for their shareholders, not to put money to work.\" Cross also argued that, \"If households and governments are net borrowers, inevitably firms must be net lenders, which require savings.\" From 2002 to 2012, corporations in Germany, the UK and Japan had higher savings rates than corporations in Canada. After the Great Recession corporations in OECD member nations further increased their savings rates Great Recession.\n\nDon Drummond, who was formerly the chief economist for TD Bank, argued that reluctance of Canadian businesses to invest capital is a problematic, long term pattern. It is not because of \"excessive prudence\". By spring 2013 in Canada \"the stock of machinery and equipment per worker\" in average \"was between 50% and 60%\" of what it was in the United States. The lack of spending was long term and it continued through 2012 while in the United States spending increased. Drummond argued that this gap would get bigger. According to Drummond, there was a time when Canadian businesses spent less because of \"factors such as tax rates and the dollar, but if that were ever true it's certainly not anymore... Canadian businesses are accustomed to operating in an environment that is sheltered from competition, compared to the American business climate. As a result, they don't accurately perceive the risks of being too cautious, and of failing to exploit opportunities and available resources.\"\n\n\nThis view of a worldwide saving glut responsible for low levels of interest rates is disputed by neoclassical economists like the German economist Hans-Werner Sinn, who claims that it was the monetary policy of the US Federal Reserve in the 1990s which kept interest rates too low for too long. In addition, the policy of the US government encouraged private debt to promote private consumption. This led to a lack of savings in the US which was then provided from foreign countries on a basis which was not sustainable. Carl Christian von Weizsäcker follows Ben Bernanke claiming that aging populations which save more than can be profitably invested lead to a saving glut and negative equilibrium rates of interest which makes public deficits necessary to fill the gap between excess private savings and private investment.\n\nFrom the perspective of monetary economics, the savings glut idea has been criticized as conceptually flawed, ignoring the role of credit creation, and related unsustainable asset price booms. Further, the composition of cross-border financing flows cannot be determined just from the \"net\" capital flows, and analysis on this basis yields flawed conclusions.\n\nIn his 2008 article entitled \"Competing Explanations: A Global Saving Glut\", Senior Fellow in Economics at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, John B. Taylor, stated that there was \"no evidence for a global saving glut\". Using an International Monetary Fund 2005 graph, he argued that \"the global saving rate—world saving as a fraction of world GDP—was very low in the 2002–2004 period especially when compared with the 1970s and 1980s\".\n\nAccording to Taylor, \"[T]here was a gap of saving over investment in the world outside the United States during 2002–2004, and this may be the source of the term \"saving glut\". But the United States was saving less than it was investing during this period; it was running a current account deficit which implies that saving was less than investment. Thus the positive saving gap outside the United States was offset by an equal sized negative saving gap in the United States. No extra impact on world interest rates would be expected. As implied by simple global accounting, there is no global gap between saving and investment.\"\n\nTaylor argued that the global \"gross\" savings rate (not necessarily the net savings rate) during the 2000s was slightly higher than savings rate in the 80s or 90s according to IMF data.\n\nNiall Ferguson in \"The Ascent of Money\", published in 2008, examines the long history of money, credit, and banking. In it he predicted a financial crisis as a result of the world economy and in particular the United States using too much credit. Specifically he cites the China–America dynamic which he refers to as Chimerica where an Asian \"savings glut\" helped create the subprime mortgage crisis with an influx of easy money.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848956", "title": "Heat sealer", "text": "Heat sealer\n\nA heat sealer is a machine used to seal products, packaging, and other thermoplastic materials using heat. This can be with uniform thermoplastic monolayers or with materials having several layers, at least one being thermoplastic. Heat sealing can join two similar materials together or can join dissimilar materials, one of which has a thermoplastic layer.\n\nHeat sealing is the process of sealing one thermoplastic to another similar thermoplastic using heat and pressure.\nThe direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together. Heat sealing is used for many applications, including heat seal connectors, thermally activated adhesives, film media, plastic ports or foil sealing.\n\nHeat seal connectors are used to join LCDs to PCBs in many consumer electronics, as well as in medical and telecommunication devices.\n\nHeat sealing of products with thermal adhesives is used to hold clear display screens onto consumer electronic products and for other sealed thermo-plastic assemblies or devices where heat staking or ultrasonic welding are not an option due to part design requirements or other assembly considerations.\n\nHeat sealing also is used in the manufacturing of bloodtest film and filter media for the blood, virus and many other test strip devices used in the medical field today. Laminate foils and films often are heat sealed over the top of thermoplastic medical trays, Microtiter (microwell) plates, bottles and containers to seal and/or prevent contamination for medical test devices, sample collection trays and containers used for food products.\n\nMedical and fluid bags used in the medical, bioengineering and food industries. Fluid bags are made out of a multitude of varying materials such as foils, filter media, thermoplastics and laminates.\n\n\n\nA type of heat sealer is also used to piece together plastic side panels for light-weight agricultural buildings such as greenhouses and sheds. This version is guided along the floor by four wheels.\n\nGood seals are a result of time, temperature and pressure for the correct clean material. Several standard test methods are available to measure the strength of heat seals. In addition, package testing is used to determine the ability of completed packages to withstand specified pressure or vacuum. Several methods are available to determine the ability of a sealed package to retain its integrity, barrier characteristics, and sterility.\n\nHeat sealing processes can be controlled by a variety of quality management systems such as HACCP, statistical process control, ISO 9000, etc. Verification and validation protocols are used to ensure that specifications are met and final materials/packages are suited for end-use.\n\nThe efficacy of heat seals is often detailed in governing specifications, contracts, and regulations. Quality management systems sometimes ask for periodic subjective evaluations: For example, some seals can be evaluated by a simple pull to determine the existence of a bond and the mechanism of failure. With some plastic films, observation can be enhanced by using polarized light which highlights the birefringence of the heat seal. Some seals for sensitive products require thorough verification and validation protocols that use quantitative testing. Test methods might include:\n\nSeal Strength testing, also known as Peel Testing, measures the strength of seals within flexible barrier materials. This measurement can then be used to determine consistency within the seal, as well as evaluation of the opening force of the package system. Seal strength is a quantitative measure for use in process validation, process control and capability. Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.\n\nThe burst test is used to determine the packages strength and precession. The burst test is performed by pressurizing the package until it bursts. The results for the burst test include the burst pressure data and a description of where the seal failure occurred. This test method covers the burst test as defined in ASTM F1140.The Creep test determines the packages ability to hold pressure for an extended period. The creep test is performed by setting the pressure at about 80% of the minimum burst pressure of a previous burst test. The time to seal failure or a pre-set time is measured.\n\nDetermination of package integrity. The package is submerged in a transparent container filled with a mixture of water and dye. Vacuum is created inside the container and maintained for a specific length of time. When the vacuum is released, any punctured packages will draw in dye revealing the imperfect seal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4640124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4640124", "title": "I. I. Chundrigar Road", "text": "I. I. Chundrigar Road\n\nI. I. Chundrigar Road, formerly McLeod Road, is located in the financial hub of Karachi, Pakistan. It is named after former Pakistani Prime Minister I. I. Chundrigar.\n\nThe Karachi financial area is the largest in the country, referred to as \"Pakistan's Wall Street\". \n\nIn 1963, Habib Bank Plaza was built on this street which remained the tallest building of Pakistan until 2005. \n\nIn 2007 Sharjah-based Enshaa Holdings in a joint venture with NLC launched Karachi International Financial center on II Chundrigar road which would comprise a hotel, office towers, serviced apartments and a railway station. The Karachi Financial Towers would include two identical 37-storey towers connected by a three-floor glass skybridge. As of 2012, construction has been abandoned because of financial misappropriation and possible embezzlement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33160128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33160128", "title": "INDEX", "text": "INDEX\n\nINDEX, an acronym for Information through Disguised Experimentation is an annual market research fair conducted by the students of IIM-Lucknow. Students create games and use various other simulated environments to capture consumers’ subconscious thoughts. This innovative method of market research removes the sensitization effect that might bias peoples answers to questions. This ensures that the most truthful answers are captured to research questions. The games are designed in such a way that the observers can elicit all the required information just by observing and noting down the behaviour and the responses of the participants.\n\nINDEX is primarily a fair conducted in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, which provides the people of the city an opportunity to experience the elements of a mela. Apart from the market research, the fair also attracts crowds through various innovative and interactive entertainment forums such as song and dance events, games, competitions and the many local vendors displaying their goods and services at the ground. The carnival atmosphere generates enthusiasm among the crowd, which leads to a more comprehensive research opportunity for the students to understand market insights in a live environment.\n\nThe first INDEX was organized in 1994, with students and professors of Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow coming up with a solution to the sensitization effect that affects normal market researches and surveys. Market Research is constantly riddled with issues like the sensitization effect of the survey on the audience making the results of the survey occasionally unreliable. Often, the results of the survey fail to reflect the buying behavior of the consumers. Students and professors of Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow came up with a solution to these issues in the year 1994. INDEX is a marketing event where the information sought through the questionnaires is disguised in the form of games, which the respondents play. The respondents think they are just participating in some elaborate skit, and they subconsciously reveal the true options they would have chosen under natural circumstances. The games are designed in such a way that the observers can elicit all the required information just by observing and noting down the behaviour and the responses of the participants. It began as an in-campus event involving staff and faculty families as respondents but since 2001 it has entered into Lucknow city where a fair is organized for the general public.\n\nThe concept behind this is called Disguised Experimentation. It is a method of obtaining information from the respondents, where both the respondent and the surveyor have immense take-away from the questioning: the respondent has fun and not a feeling of being interrogated, while the researcher gets data that can be classified as genuine.\n\nAlthough INDEX is aimed at providing a platform for market research, it is more than a marketing event. It has provided an opportunity for Lucknow residents to come forward and showcase their talents in various fields. Its popularity has attracted a large footfall which has been consistently increasing annually. The fair is designed to provide avenues of interest for all visitors to the fair. Events that have been conducted over the past years include book fairs and science exhibitions by students from the various schools in Lucknow. For the youth of the city, competitions such as “Fashion Parade” and “Choreo Nite”, with an opportunity for ramp walkers to win the title of Mr. and Miss. Index, have been organized over the years. Other events which are open for the public included numerous \"Ek Minute\" games, kids' dance competitions, \"Bollywood quizzes\" and \"Salsa Performances\". Food festivals offering different cuisine at the fair, in association with various outlets, are set up at INDEX aimed at the participants, students and families who visit. The fair also provides gala entertainment offerings with Star Nite performances by artists in the evening of the two days. Entertainers who have visited INDEX include Pt. Hari Prasad Chaurasia, Sufi singers \"Mehfil-e-Sufiyana\", and other artistes from Lucknow.\n\nThroughout its years of activities INDEX has played host to a variety of social initiatives. IIM Lucknow, through INDEX has associated with NGOs such as Mahila Samkhya, and Prithvi Innovations which organised a puppet show during the fair. Various social awareness programs have also been addressed through its publicity mediums. Public issues which have been handled at the fair and its social initiative activities include Road Safety events and HIV awareness drives in association with UPSACS (Uttar Pradesh State AIDS Control Society). Colleges from across Lucknow participate in the street play competition \"Jaagran\", organised at locations in the City to promote social awareness.\n\nINDEX is a part of the unique market research initiative which is based on the concept of \"Disguised Market Research\" - which seeks to gain insights into the consumer's perspectives/needs through intelligently designed games to overcome the 'Sensitization Effect'. As a result, IIML's clients spread across the FMCG, Banking, Services and IT sectors and many Industry heavy weights in various sectors . Prominent market leaders which have associated with the fair and the college include Pepsi, Nokia, Cadbury, Aditya Birla Group, Viacom18, HT Media, Star India, Mahindra Group, Reckitt Benkiser, HUL, ITC, Johnson&Johnson, P&G and TATA Group. INDEX has also partnered with various NGOs and associations such as UPSACS for their various initiatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "44656461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44656461", "title": "IPRA Golden World Awards", "text": "IPRA Golden World Awards\n\nThe Golden World Awards is an annual global awards ceremony organised by the International Public Relations Association (IPRA) to recognise public relations achievements around the world across different categories. Established in 1990, the Golden World Awards (also dubbed as the 'Oscars of PR') has 65 categories of In-house and Agency entries judged separately, and honours the overall highest standards of each year with the IPRA Grand Prix for Excellence award.\n\nIn the preliminary stage of judging the jury will only consider the programme summaries submitted so great care must be taken in the preparation. Its length is limited to twelve hundred words (1,200) and must be entirely in English.\n\nAll entries are submitted online to the IPRA secretariat and must include an opening 100-word statement describing why the programme should be deemed worthy of an award. Under separate headlines, each entry should then address all of these five areas:\n\n\nSupporting documents will also need to be submitted after the entry is shortlisted by a panel of judges at the preliminary round of judging.\n\nFor each of the categories below Agency and Inhouse entries will be judged separately and separate awards made. In addition, the overall highest achievement of each year is awarded the 'Grand Prix for Excellence'.\n\n'İstanbul Büyükşehir Belediyesi, İBB, Halkla İlişkiler Müdürlüğü, Turkey'\n\nAccessible tourism: Feeling historic replicas\n\nNanyang Technological University, Singapore (NTU Singapore)\n\nA global university on the rise\n\nTurkcell, Turkey\n\nWomen Empowerment in Economy\n\nBlumen Group, Serbia\n\nClient: Statistical Office of the Republic of Serbia (SORS)\n\nAbsa and Marina Penderis, South Africa\n\nAbsa rings the bell\n\n\"Information not available.\"\n\n\"Information not available.\"\n\nPUB, national water agency, Singapore\n\nFrom bland to glam: Water makes a splash in Singapore\n\nDentsu Public Relations, Japan\n\nDementia Debunked Campaign\n\nPRAIS Corporate Communications, Romania\n\nWorld of Nutrition!\n\nInoue Public Relations, Japan\n\nOmer Aftab for Breast Cancer Campaign, Pakistan\n"}
{"id": "59142026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59142026", "title": "Ichak Adizes", "text": "Ichak Adizes\n\nIchak Adizes is a Macedonian born management researcher. He is the founder of the Adizes Institute and a former professor, and author of books including \"The Ideal Executive\".\n\nIchak Adizes was born in Macedonia. He is the founder of the Adizes Institute, which has offices in 22 countries, consulting with governments and corporations. The Institute is based in Santa Barbara, California. He has also served as a professor at UCLA. In 2017 Adizes was named to the Board of Directors for CopPay. \n\nAs a researcher, he analyzes the psychology of managers. Adizes developed the “Corporate Life Cycle” model, which describes the development of a business as having five stages: courtship, infancy, “go-go”, adolescent, and prime. He also developed the PAEI model, an acronym standing for Producer, Administrator, Entrepreneur, and Integrator. These are four different talents, all required for a business to succeed, but which are not held by one single person. The model was elaborated in his book \"The Ideal Executive\". He has also researched how best to manage government during political changes. \n\nHe also developed concepts including “democraship”, a situation in which a group of leaders develops policy decisions democratically, but then implements dictatorially; and the concept of “Founder’s Trap”. \n"}
{"id": "12791633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12791633", "title": "Jacky Ben-Zaken", "text": "Jacky Ben-Zaken\n\nJacky Ben-Zaken () is an Israeli businessman from Ashdod. His main business focus is in yielding real estate. He is also known as owner of the Israeli Premier League football club F.C. Ashdod.\n\nJacky Ben-Zaken was born in 1967 in Mazkeret Batya. He moved to Ashdod after his mother second marriage. The family was not wealthy and he worked in random coming works (like flowers sale) during his school years. After his military service in IDF he started to work in insurance agency belonging to Efraim Gur - one of the leaders of Georgian community in Israel.\n\nWhen in 1988 Efraim Gur was elected to Knesset Jackie became his parliamentary adviser. In 1993 Ben-Zaken was elected to Ashdod municipality as leader of \"Tzeirey Ashdod\" faction. During his municipality service he started to deal with real estate. His business was criticized by opposition. He finished all political activities after two cadences.\n\nIn 1997, in partnership with Avraam Nanikashvili and old friend, retired footballer Haim Revivo he initiated Filgar LTD company. Using explosive population growth of Ashdod the company upgraded their business facilities and the group started to invest in yielding real estate across the Israel. In 2005 they bought financial group \"Financial Levers LTD\". Using successful capital raising in Tel Aviv Stock Exchange \"Financial Levers LTD\" started in series of acquisitions in Israel and abroad mainly in Texas, Russia and Kazakhstan.\n\nJacky Ben-Zaken is the owner of F.C. Ashdod. Under their rule the club stabilized and keep a position in the upper part of the Israeli Premier League. The Ashdod football school is one of the best in the country and the club based on its own players.\n\nBen Zaken served 16 months in an Israeli prison after being convicted for Stock manipulation and was released on April 1 2018.\n\nJacky Ben-Zaken is married and father to 5 children. He is living in Ashdod. In his business he often employs his family members and own friends.\n"}
{"id": "38958460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38958460", "title": "John O'Neill (Irish senator)", "text": "John O'Neill (Irish senator)\n\nJohn O'Neill (died c.1 December 1941) was an Irish businessman who was an Irish Free State senator in 1925. He was formally independent, but took a pro-Cumann na nGaedheal line. In 1925 he was living in Delgany, County Wicklow, and described himself as a \"cycle manufacturer and motor trader\". He owned O'Neill Motors, a Dublin garage acquired in 1959 by Ryan's Car Hire.\n\nO'Neill served on several committees and commissions on industry and commerce. During the First World War he chaired the All-Ireland Munitions and Government Supplies Committee, which tried with limited success to secure war-related contracts for Irish firms. He served on Lord Balfour of Burleigh's 1916–17 Committee on Commercial and Industrial Policy, dissenting from its final report in particular due to Ireland-specific issues. He chaired the First Dáil's Commission of Inquiry into the Resources and Industries of Ireland, and served on the Economic Relations Committee established in 1921 by Robert Barton, the Dáil's Minister for Economic Affairs, to advise on the economic aspects of the negotiations for the Anglo-Irish Treaty. After independence, he advocated protectionism, and served on a 1923 committee planning the takeover of the dockyard at Haulbowline. In 1931 he was one of three members of the advisory committee under the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act, 1924. He was on the 1934–38 Banking Commission which led to the creation of the Central Bank of Ireland, attending 94 of its 150 meetings and subscribing to the majority report.\n\nO'Neill was elected to the Seanad at a by-election on 30 March 1925 to fill the vacancy created by the death of George Sigerson, finishing one vote ahead of Patrick McCartan. That September, he was defeated in the 1925 Seanad triennial election. He stood unsuccessfully in the 1927 by-election to fill the vacancy created by the death of Stephen O'Mara, finishing fifth behind P. J. Brady.\n"}
{"id": "50909446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50909446", "title": "Join Hands Day", "text": "Join Hands Day\n\nJoin Hands Day is the first Saturday in May. It is a national volunteer day and annual event sponsored by the American Fraternal Alliance.\n\nThe day was launched by what was then called America's Fraternal Benefit Societies in 2000, in partnership with Points of Light Foundation. It is meant to have a focus not just on volunteering, but also on developing youth and adult relationships.\n\nFor the first two years of Join Hands Day, organizations were asked to register their Join Hands Day projects via the official web site. In some years, a certain number of groups were chosen to receive a cash award for the beneficiary of their project or another cause and a physical award, and were recognized at the National Fraternal Congress of America (NFCA) annual conference. It was not always on the first Saturday in May; the 2001 day was held on June 16.\n\nOrganizers of Join Hands Day offer participants ideas for group volunteering events that can bring adults and youth together in community service, such as repairing bicycles to give disadvantaged children and teaching bicycle maintenance, collecting chairs of various shapes and sizes to paint and then auction for a worthy cause, or repairing gravestones and improve landscaping in a cemetery and documenting historic grave sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "31904643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31904643", "title": "Juliusz Karol Kunitzer", "text": "Juliusz Karol Kunitzer\n\nJuliusz Karol Kunitzer () (1843–1905) was a Polish-German industrialist, economic activist, philanthropist, one of the industrial magnates of Łódź (Congress Poland/Vistula Land). He owned a textile and later a joint stock company. His viciousness towards workers and cooperation with Russian authorities gained him notoriety among Łódż citizens. He was assassinated by Polish Socialist Party activists in the aftermath of the 1905 Łódź insurrection.\n\nKunitzer was a polarizing personality and career. Known among Łódź's elites as a shrewd businessman, \"cotton king\" who became a tycoon due to his personal skills and luck, respected for this and his philanthropy and other public initiatives, for others – particularly radicals and socialists, he was a vicious exploiter of workers and a leader of anti-labor industrialists.\n\nKunitzer was born on 19 September 1843 in the Pohulanka village, in Russian-controlled Congress Poland (increasingly known as the Vistula Land). His family had roots in German burgher society, and moved to the Polish territories in the 1830s Kunitzer described himself as a Pole, including during a public speech to Russian businessmen in Nizhny Novgorod which caused a brief sensation. His father, Jakub, a weaver by profession, died in 1850, after which Juliusz with his mother moved to Tyniec. Young Kunitzer became a weaver, following his father's footsteps.\n\nHe came to Łódź in 1855. He joined the E. Hentschl's factory, quickly advancing to a managerial position. In 1869 he married Agnieszka Meyer, sister of the industrialist Ludwik Meyer. Using his wife's dowry, he invested in a construction of a new factory, which begun operations in the following year. In partnership with Ludwik Meyer, in 1874, he bought the Hentschl's factory, damaged by the fire, and operated the \"Kunitzer i Meyer\" company. In 1879 he withdrew from that partnership, built cotton industry in the village of Widzew near Łódź, and begun a different one with Theodor Julius Heinzel. Over the next few decades his factory complex expanded, with a dedicated railway line, worker's housing (150 homes), a hospital, a school, church, shops, and other buildings, which saw Widzew transformed from rural village to a quarter of Łódź. \nKunitzer was also involved in setting up an electric railway (the Koleje Elektryczne Łódzke S.A. and Łódzkie Wąskotorowe Elektryczne Koleje Dojazdowe S.A. stock companies) and in coal import company (Konsorcjum Węglowe \"Kunitzer et Co.\"). He was a member of the board of many organizations (such as the Bank Handlowy). He also had investments outside Polish territories, for example in Russia, where he was involved in the iron mining and steelworking. He was also involved in philanthropy, and presided for many years over the Łódzkie Chrześcijańskie Towarzystwo Dobroczynności (Łódź Christian Society of Goodwill).\n\nHe was hated by the workers in Łódż, due to his particularly vicious treatment of employees in his factories, and due to fact that he remained in close contact and cooperated with Russian authorities Kunitzer often denied his workers their salaries in order to \"teach them reason\" which threatened them with hunger; such threat was also used to break down strike at his factory. Workers in his factory faced financial fines and payments In 1886 report by Russian authorities pointed out that Kunitzer's factory which employed 860 workers, had no first aid room where a doctor could help or examine an injured worker. Kunitzer's factories were also among two with lowest wages in Łódż and there was already a failed attempt to assassinate him in 1893. Kunitzer himself consequently acted against workers.\nOn 30 September 1905 he was assassinated by Polish Socialist Party activists in the aftermath of the 1905 Łódź insurrection in which he refused any concessions to the workers. One of the assailants (Adolf Szulc) was captured; the second one escaped. The assailant confessed that hundreds of poverty stricken workers who were victims of Kunitzer were his motivation for the attack. His assassination became the topic of the day for Polish and Russian newspapers; the event was condemned by conservative media, and praised by the radical, socialist ones. His funeral on 3 October that year gathered thousands of people. He was buried at the Stary Cmentarz at Ogrodowa street, and his grave was marked by a simple, black tombstone.\n\nIn 1906 Heinzel & Kunitzer employed 3,343 workers. The Widzew enterprise was bought by Heinzel and Italians Tanfani and Farinola.\n\n"}
{"id": "3856231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3856231", "title": "Laura Betterly", "text": "Laura Betterly\n\nLaura Betterly, also known as Laura Betterly-Blom as the head of Data Resource Consulting, became notorious for sending large quantities of commercial e-mail in the early 21st century when she cracked as a joke, \"call me the Spam Queen\" to a \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter.\n\nBetterly was born in Long Island, New York and lived there until 1995. She is now a resident of Clearwater, Florida. She has been married to Steven Blom, an officer in her corporation, since 2002. She has two children from her first marriage, Chris and Craig.\n\nBefore starting Data Resource Consulting, she was president and co-founder of Visiosonic, later known as PCDJ.COM, an mp3 music company. She worked with celebrities such as Ice T, Nile Rodgers, Jam Master Jay and Chaka Kahn.\nShe has been a featured speaker at the Consumer Electronics Show and the Winter Music Conference.\n\nAt Data Resource Consulting, on a typical day, her firm would send out 8-10 million emails daily, charging clients $600–$1,000 per million emails and about half that amount for a sending a second time. She also charged clients for lead responses to emails. Unlike other mailers, Betterly said she did not forge headers, route messages through outside servers without permission, or use any of the other tricks that have drawn criticism of the spamming community. She also refused to send messages advertising adult products or services, or anything she believed to be illegal. She said that she only possessed the addresses of people who had expressed a desire to know more when signing up to other online services, and that she would honor any requests from recipients to unsubscribe from further mail.\n\nEstimates indicate she may have earned at least US$200,000 per year. She said that she was \"just trying to make a living like everyone else.\" Betterly publicly attacked those who were critical of her practices, “I have a beef against what I consider hate groups that are trying to shut down commercial e-mail” and referred to what she did as \"a win-win situation\". To those who objected to what she did for a living she said, \"I don't really care. As long as I'm not breaking any laws, you don't have to love me or like what I do for a living.\"\n\nData Resource Consulting lost a legal case in Kansas small claims court on 9 September 2003 for failing to follow the spam laws in that state.\n\nIn September 2005, Betterly and the chairman of her corporation, Bob Cefail, \"fired\" their radio station in Clearwater, Florida where her program,\"The Profit Doctors\" aired, because the station management discontinued the toll-free call-in number for their listeners. The following year, the pair \"rehired\" the same radio station to air a new program called Scooopradio.\n\nBetterly took her company (In Touch Media Group) public and announced her retirement from the bulk commercial e-mail business on 10 October 2005, referring to spam as \"a four-letter word\" and stating that bulk emailing had deteriorated into \"a bunch of unprofessional, ineffective scams\" due to its negative image. She also attempted to distance herself from pro-spam statements that she made in earlier media interviews,\"I have never advocated spam or sending spam.\"\n\nIn Touch Media lost over $2 million. Their 8-K filing with the SEC reveals they received another $1 million in funding for expansion. Despite the investment, In Touch closed its doors in 2007.\n\nSince 2007 Betterly has been running Yada Yada Marketing a boutique marketing firm that is Google certified for pay per click, and continues to speak at industry events.\n\n"}
{"id": "42914155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42914155", "title": "Lehigh Technologies", "text": "Lehigh Technologies\n\nLehigh Technologies is a specialty materials company that manufactures micronized rubber powders (MRP). Based in Atlanta, Georgia, Lehigh Technologies operates a MRP manufacturing plant at its headquarters, with an annual production capacity of more than 100 million pounds. Lehigh also operates a MRP research and development facility, its Application & Development Center.\n\nLehigh Technologies has been manufacturing MRP at its commercial plant since 2007. According to Lehigh, the company has demonstrated steady growth since it began manufacturing MRP at commercial scale.\n\nIn 2010, Lehigh was selected as a Technology Pioneer by the World Economic Forum (WEF). The awards program recognizes companies from around the world that are involved in the design, development and deployment of new technologies that are set to have a significant impact on business and society.\n\nIn June 2011, Lehigh announced that more than 100 million tires on the road had been manufactured using the company's MRP. In 2014, the company announced that more than 250 million tires produced to date had incorporated MRP. In October 2017, Lehigh Technologies was acquired by Michelin.\n\nIn November 2010, Lehigh expanded its in-house capabilities with the launch of the Application & Development Center (ADC), a dedicated research and development facility staffed by a team of industry professionals. The stated mission of the ADC is to develop new applications for MRP and to accelerate adoption of existing MRP applications by improving understanding of MRP chemistry, providing expert advice for new material formulations that incorporate MRP, and developing new materials based on MRP.\n\nIn January 2014, Lehigh announced an expansion of its ADC that includes the hiring of new technical staff and investment in new mixing and analytical equipment. According to Lehigh, this expansion improves the ADC’s ability to develop functional materials based on MRP.\n\nIn addition to its production facility in Atlanta, Lehigh has developed a network of partners and distributors.\n\nLehigh partnered with Connell Brothers Corporation (CBC), the largest distributor of specialty chemicals and ingredients in Asia-Pacific, to market its MRP in Japan, In 2014, Lehigh announced an expanded partnership with CBC, aimed at broadening industry outreach, supply chain efficiency and technical support in Japan, as well as introducing MRP to South Korea and Southeast Asia.\n\nIn September 2014, Lehigh announced the closing of an $8 million fundraise with JSR Corporation, a $4 billion specialty chemicals company based in Japan, to support the company’s geographic expansion and technology roadmap for MRP in the region.\n\nIn October 2011, Lehigh expanded into Brazil with the appointment of a country manager. In December 2012, Lehigh announced a partnership with Andes Chemical Corporation to market MRP in Central America.\n\nIn September 2012, Lehigh partnered with HERA Holding, a Spanish waste-to-resource company, to market MRP to the tire, consumer, and industrial plastics and coatings industries in Europe.\n\nSince 2008, Lehigh has raised more than $50 million from investors that include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Index Ventures, Leaf Clean Energy and NGP Energy Technology Partners.\n\nLehigh has commercialized a proprietary cryogenic turbo mill technology that transforms end-of-life tires and post-industrial rubber materials into micronized rubber powders. Lehigh produces MRP from vulcanized elastomeric material, most often end-of-life tire material. However, it can also be produced from post-industrial nitrile rubber, ethylene propylene diene monomer (EPDM), butyl, and natural rubber compounds.\n\nLehigh's MRPs are available in two product lines, PolyDyne and MicroDyne. Industries incorporating MRP into their products include tire, automotive, construction, industrial components and consumer products. It is also used as an additive in tires, plastics, asphalt, coatings, and sealants. MRP can also be incorporated into prime or recycled grade polypropylene (PP), high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and nylons. Additionally, the incorporation of MRPs in thermoplastic elastomers (TPE) and thermoplastic vulcanizates (TPV) makes it a feasible ingredient for automotive and building and construction applications.\n\nThe particle size distributions of Lehigh's MRP typically range from 830 µm (20 mesh) to 50 µm (300 mesh), and its MRP is free of foreign particulates, such as metal and fiber.\n\nLehigh claims that its cryogenic turbo mill technology represents an evolution over previous post-manufactured rubber technologies. The most common rubber processing technology converts end-of-life tire and post-industrial rubber material into rubber chips that are typically one inch or larger in size. These chips are then used in tire-derived fuel and civil engineering projects. A second-generation processing technology converts end-of-life tire and rubber material into crumb rubber, also known as ground tire rubber (GTR). GTR typically comprises chips between one inch and 30 mesh in size, with the associated fiber and steel mostly removed. This material is used in asphalt, as garden mulch and in playgrounds.\n\nBecause of the material's smaller size, Lehigh markets its micrometer-scale MRP as a third-generation rubber processing technology. MRP's size and composition enables it to be incorporated into advanced and higher-value applications.\n\nLehigh's MRP is used as a compound extender to replace natural rubber and synthetic polymers, as well as to act as a process aid in material production. Lehigh claims that because it replaces commodity-priced rubber- and oil-based feedstocks, MRP can reduce formulation costs. The company has asserted that MRP can offer up to 50 percent cost savings over virgin raw materials in some cases.\n\nBecause it is derived from end-of-life materials, MRP can also improve the sustainability, and in some cases the performance, of the compounds in which it is used. For example, Lehigh has stated that the smaller particle sizes of MRP increase the impact strength of certain plastic compositions. However, in all applications the particle size and loading levels depend on the target application.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46466393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46466393", "title": "List of Icelandic brands", "text": "List of Icelandic brands\n\nThis is a list of Icelandic brands, which encompasses brand-name products and services produced by companies in Iceland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57453801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57453801", "title": "List of companies founded by University of Pennsylvania alumni", "text": "List of companies founded by University of Pennsylvania alumni\n\nThis is a list of companies founded by University of Pennsylvania alumni, including attendees who enrolled in degree-programs at University of Pennsylvania (UPenn) but did not eventually graduate. This list is not exhaustive, as it only includes notable companies of which the founding and development history is well recorded by reliable sources. In particular, subsidiaries are listed with their owners in parentheses.\n\nUniversity of Pennsylvania is a highly entrepreneurial university and its alumni have founded a variety of companies. According to PitchBook, from 2006 to 2017, UPenn produced 788 company founders as alumni or current students, creating 712 companies, fifth most among all universities in the world.\n\nIn this list, founders of a company which merged with other companies to form a new company are counted as founders of the new company. However, founders of a company which later dissolved into several successor companies are \"not\" counted as founders of those successor companies; this same rule applies to spin-off companies. Finally, a defunct company is a company that had stopped functioning completely (e.g., bankrupt) without dissolving, merging or being acquired.\n\nThis list shows companies in \"Fortune Global 500\" founded or co-founded by UPenn alumni. The cut-off revenue for 2017 \"Fortune Global 500\" companies is $21,609M in 2016.\n<nowiki>*:</nowiki> \n\nThis list shows companies in \"Fortune 1000\" (only for companies within the U.S.) founded or co-founded by UPenn alumni. The cut-off revenue for 2017 \"Fortune 1000\" companies is $1,791M in 2016.\n\n<nowiki>*:</nowiki> \n\nFor each company, only the latest rankings (up to three years) are shown in this list.\n\nThis index also contains companies listed in section \"Notable defunct & dissolved\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35527833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35527833", "title": "Lynda Gratton", "text": "Lynda Gratton\n\nLynda Gratton (born February 1955) a British organizational theorist, consultant, and Professor of Management Practice at London Business School and the founder of the Hot Spots Movement, known for her work on organisational behaviour.\n\nBorn in Liverpool, England, the oldest of four children, Gratton took a degree in psychology degree followed by a PhD at Liverpool University.\n\nAfter graduation Gratton started her career at British Airways, where she was Chief Psychologist. In 1982 she moved to the management consultancy firm PA Consulting Group, where she became Director.\n\nIn 1989 she started her academic career as Assistant Professor at London Business School. In 2004 she was appointed Senior Fellow of the UK's Advanced Institute of Management Practice. In 2006 she became the founding director of the Lehman Centre for Women in Business at the London Business School.\n\nIn 2005 she founded the Hot Spots Movement, a specialist research and consulting team that bridges academia and business. In October 2009 the Hot Spots Movement launched the Future of Work Research Consortium, spearheading an experiment in co-creation among management, academics and executives. To date, the Future of Work Research Consortium has brought together executives from more than 110 global companies in Europe, South Africa, Japan, and Australia.\n\nGratton is a Fellow of the World Economic Forum and has chaired the WEF Council on Leadership. She chairs the Drucker prize panel and is on the governing body of London Business School. She continues to work with many of the world's biggest companies, including Vodafone, Shell and Unilever. She was for many years the judging panel of the Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award. Her book \"The 100-Year Life: Living and Working in an Age of Longevity\" was shortlisted for the 2016 Financial Times and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award.\n\nIn 2000 she published \"Living Strategy: Putting People at the Heart of Corporate Purpose\", which has since been translated into more than 15 languages. It looks at how to place employees in the context of a business with all its competing attractions, and how organisations should understand and empower staff. It includes case studies from Hewlett-Packard, Motorola and Glaxxo Welcome.\n\nIn 2002, Gratton's article \"Integrating the Enterprise\" which examined cooperative strategies, was awarded the MIT Sloan Management Review best article of the year.\n\nIn 2003 she published \"The Democratic Enterprise: Liberating your Business with Freedom, Flexibility and Commitment\", which was described by Financial Times as a work of important scholarship and has provided a fascinating insight into how companies will change over the coming decades.\n\nHer 2005 case study with S. Ghoshal, of BP's peer assist integration practices called \"BP: Organisational Transformation\" won the ECCH Best Strategy Case of the year award and went on to win the best case of the year.\n\nIn 2007 her book \"Hot Spots: Why Some Companies Buzz with Energy and Innovation – and Others Don't\" was rated by the Financial Times as one of the most important business books of 2007. It has since been translated into more than 10 languages.\n\nHer 2009 book \"Glow: how to bring energy and innovation to your life\" gave practical exercises to enable people to become more innovative, collaborative and better connected.\n\nIn 2009, Lynda Gratton founded the Future of Work Research Consortium, which is a collaborative research project that creates insights into what the future of work will look like, and how organisations can prepare.\n\nIn 2011, Gratton published \"The Shift: The Future of Work is Already Here\", which looks at the future of work and was supported by the innovative research carried out in the Future of Work Research Consortium, and in 2014 \"The Key – How Corporations Succeed by Solving the World's Toughest Problems\".\n\nIn 2008 The Financial Times selected her as the business thinker most likely to make a real difference over the next decade. In 2011 she was ranked by The Times as one of the top 15 Business Thinkers in the world today. And in 2011 she was ranked number one in Human Resources Magazine's \"Top 25 HR Most Influential UK Thinkers 2011\" poll.\n\nIn 2012 The Shift received the business book of the year award in Japan and has been translated into more than 15 languages.\n\nIn 2013 she was awarded the Life Time Achievement Award by HR Magazine and equally in 2013 she was amongst the 15 top thought leaders in the Thinkers50 ranking.\n\nIn 2015 The Key won the CMI Management Book of the Year. This book looks at the impact of the changing world on corporate practices and processes and on leadership.\n\nIn 2016, Lynda Gratton and co-author Professor Andrew Scott, published The 100-Year Life: Living and Working in an Age of Longevity, which, translated into many languages, continues to generate significant interest across the world, also in Japan, where it quickly became a bestseller. It was shortlisted for the FT Business Book of the Year award.\n\nLynda’s work has been acknowledged globally – she has won the Tata prize in India; in the US she has been named as the annual Fellow of NAHR and won the CCL prize; whilst in Australia she has won the HR prize. In 2017, Lynda became an Advisor for @GoogleOrg’s initiative to help people prepare for the changing nature of work and was also, as the only foreigner, invited by Prime Minister Abe of Japan to join a new advisory council “Council for designing the 100-year-life society”.\n\nLynda Gratton has written several books and academic articles on organisational behaviour. Books, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "49156019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49156019", "title": "Maria Franca Fissolo", "text": "Maria Franca Fissolo\n\nMaria Franca Fissolo (born 1941) is an Italian billionaire, the widow of Michele Ferrero, and the owner of Ferrero SpA, Europe's second-largest confectionery company.\n\nAs of March 2018, \"Forbes\" estimated her net worth at $2.2 billion.\n\nShe married Michele Ferrero in 1962, and they had two sons together, Giovanni Ferrero and Pietro Ferrero Jr. She lives in Monaco.\n"}
{"id": "12911389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12911389", "title": "May L. Cheney", "text": "May L. Cheney\n\nMay Lucretia Shepard Cheney (May 11, 1862 – April 22, 1942) was born during the Civil War in Garden Grove, Iowa, and was named after the month in which she was born, and her maternal grandmother who influenced her childhood. May's early school attendance was in her hometown. She attended high schools in Oakland and Chico, California before enrolling at UCB in 1879. With her widowed mother, she settled at \"2020 Hearst Avenue\" (then \"College Way\"), in a house with a watermill in the rear yard. Residing in the same house was Lemuel Warren Cheney (1858–1921), a law student.\n\nThe following year, the Shepards moved to 2316 Allston Way, across the street from the campus. Before long, Cheney had moved there too. The Shepards’ last address before May’s graduation in 1883 was Club House No. 4 on the university grounds, again shared by Cheney, now a journalist. In addition to their shared living quarters, May and Lemuel had a common interest in literature. Both belonged to the Neolaean Literary Society, of which May was vice-president.\n\nOn 29 April 1883, during her senior year, she married Cheney, the Bachelor of Letters degree was granted to her in December of that year. They left for Europe, where he served as Balkan Peninsula correspondent for the San Francisco Chronicle. Their first son, Charles Henry Cheney, was born in Rome in February 1884. Upon their return she and her husband had a house built close to UCB, on College Avenue in Lodi.\n\nIn 1886, when she was 24 years old, May founded Cheney’s Pacific Coast Bureau of Education in San Francisco. It was the first commercial teacher placement agency west of the Rockies, and her husband participated in its management. She decided that UCB owed some obligation to the graduates unable to find proper positions. The English universities had appointment secretaries. Harvard University had a similar official. UCB, she thought, should likewise give such a service to students. After she convinced UCB President Martin Kellogg, her plan was accepted. She opened the UCB placement service in the president's office in South Hall on January 1, 1898, and continued to serve as the university’s Appointment Secretary for 40 years, placing countless university graduates as high-school teachers throughout the state.\n\nThe Cheneys raised four sons, three of whom survived to adulthood. The eldest, Charles Henry Cheney (1884–1943), earned the first architectural degree awarded by UC before continuing his studies in Paris, eventually becoming a notable city planner and zoning expert. His son, Warren DeWitt Cheney (1907-1979), was a well-known sculptor and art teacher who took up psychology in midlife, founding the Transactional Analysis Journal. Sheldon Warren Cheney (1886–1980), entered his father’s real estate business before moving to Detroit, where he became a notable author and art critic. In 1916 he founded Theatre Arts Magazine. Marshall Chipman Cheney (1888–1972) became a physician. He did his residency at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston before returning to Berkeley, where he practiced near the campus and at Cowell Memorial Hospital. He lived with his widowed mother at 2241 College Avenue until 1940.\n\nAt the end of 1939, May Cheney sold her two campus houses to the university, and the family soon moved to 116 Tunnel Road. The two Cheney houses on campus were designated City of Berkeley Landmarks in 1990. Built in 1885, 2241 College Avenue is the second oldest surviving structure in the Berkeley Property Tract.\n\nMay L. Cheney was the founder of the National Association of Appointment Secretaries (NAAS) now known as the American College Personnel Association.\n\nIn choosing a permanent home we seek that place above all others which promises abundance of life, stimulus, interests that postpone as long as possible the inevitable apathy of old age. Where do we find this precious boon more abundantly than in Berkeley?\n\nOn August 4, 1919, Cheney was shot at by Roger Sprague, a chemistry assistant who was despondent at not being recommended for further advancement. She escaped unhurt.\n\n"}
{"id": "871679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871679", "title": "Ministry of National Education (France)", "text": "Ministry of National Education (France)\n\nThe Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and Research (), or simply \"Ministry of National Education\", as the title has changed no small number of times in the course of the Fifth Republic is the French government cabinet member charged with running France's public educational system and with the supervision of agreements and authorizations for private teaching organizations.\n\nThe Ministry's headquarters is located in the 18th century \"Hôtel de Rochechouart\" on the rue de Grenelle in the 7th arrondissement of Paris.\n\nGiven that National Education is France's largest employer, and employs more than half of the French state civil servants, the position is traditionally a fairly strategic one. The current minister is Jean-Michel Blanquer.\n\nA governmental position overseeing public education was first created in France in 1802. Following the various regime changes in France in the first decades of the 19th century, the position changed official status and name a number of times before the position of Minister of Public Instruction was created in 1828. For much of its history, the position was combined with that of Minister of Public Worship, who dealt with issues related to the Roman Catholic Church, except in instances where the Minister of Public Instruction was a Protestant. The position has also occasionally been combined with Minister of Sports and Minister of Youth Affairs. In 1932, the office's title was changed to Minister of National Education, although it was briefly changed back in 1940–1941, and was renamed Minister of Education during the Presidency of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing (1974–1981). In 1975, it created the \"Comité d'études sur les formations d'ingénieurs\" which studies the training and job placement of engineers in France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59044775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59044775", "title": "Parchmentising", "text": "Parchmentising\n\nParchmentising is a textile finishing treatment for cellulose fabric, mainly cotton and flax, which stiffens the fabric and imparts a degree of translucency.\n\nThe process was described in 1850 by John Mercer, who treated cotton with solutions of 110–125°Tw sulfuric acid, at room temperature, followed by washing. Mercer observed that the treated fabric was soft like fine wool when treated at 110°Tw, shrank and stiffened at 114°Tw, or shrank, stiffened, and became semi-transparent from 116–125°Tw. \nIn general, treating indefinitely with concentrations below 110°Tw (64%) only swells and shrinks the fabric, while higher concentrations produce the stiff, translucent parchment-like effect in a few seconds, with some loss of tensile strength.\n\nTextile makers have combined sulfuric acid treatment with other processes to achieve different effects. For example, Mercerising cotton fabric before acid treatment appears to make it more susceptible to treatment at lower concentrations of sulfuric acid. At about 106 °Tw the Mercerised lustre is removed and the fabric becomes fuller, softer, and more wool-like, similar to a crêpe. The parchmentising effect is still present at higher concentrations, and may be obtained as low as 107.5 °Tw with somewhat longer treatment, perhaps a few minutes. Acid and alkaline treatments are sometimes applied several times in alternation, and patterns may be created by locally applying a resist before or between treatments.\nAt every stage the treatment is stopped by washing and neutralizing the fabric. After acid treatment and washing, a heavy calender, sometimes heated, can be applied to the wet or dried fabric to vary its translucency.\n"}
{"id": "44245314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44245314", "title": "Petrochemical Heritage Award", "text": "Petrochemical Heritage Award\n\nThe Petrochemical Heritage Award was established in 1997, \"to recognize individuals who made outstanding contributions to the petrochemical community.\" The award is intended to inspire achievement and to promote public understanding. The award winner is chosen annually by the Founders Club and the Science History Institute (formerly the Chemical Heritage Foundation). The award is traditionally presented at the International Petrochemical Conference hosted by the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM), formerly known as NPRA, the National Petrochemical & Refiners Association. \n\nThe following people have received the Petrochemical Heritage Award:\n\n"}
{"id": "920218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=920218", "title": "Pharmaceutics", "text": "Pharmaceutics\n\nPharmaceutics is the discipline of pharmacy that deals with the process of turning a new chemical entity (NCE) or old drugs into a medication to be used safely and effectively by patients. It is also called the science of dosage form design. There are many chemicals with pharmacological properties, but need special measures to help them achieve therapeutically relevant amounts at their sites of action. Pharmaceutics helps relate the formulation of drugs to their delivery and disposition in the body.\nPharmaceutics deals with the formulation of a pure drug substance into a dosage form.\nBranches of pharmaceutics include:\nPure drug substances are usually white crystalline or amorphous powders. Historically before the advent of medicine as a science it was common for pharmacists to dispense drugs \"as is\", most drugs today are administered as parts of a dosage form. The clinical performance of drugs depends on their form of presentation to the patient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56415007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56415007", "title": "Shaping processes in crystal growth", "text": "Shaping processes in crystal growth\n\nShaping processes in crystal growth are a collection of techniques for growing bulk crystals of a defined shape from a melt, usually by constraining the shape of the liquid meniscus by means of a mechanical shaper. Crystals are commonly grown as fibers, solid cylinders, hollow cylinders (or tubes), and sheets (or plates). More complex shapes such as tubes with a complex cross section, and domes have also been produced. Using a shaping process can produce a near net shape crystal and reduce the manufacturing cost for crystals which are composed of very expensive or difficult to machine materials.\n\n\nEdge-defined film-fed growth or EFG was developed for sapphire growth in the late 1960s by Harold LaBelle and A. Mlavsky at Tyco Industries.\nA shaper (also referred to as a die) having dimensions approximately equal to the crystal to be grown rests above the surface of the melt which is contained in a crucible. Capillary action feeds liquid material to a slit at the center of the shaper. When a seed crystal is touched to the liquid film and raised upwards, a single crystal forms at the interface between the solid seed and the liquid film. By continuing to pull the seed upwards, the crystal expands as a liquid film forms between the crystal and the top surface of the shaper. When the film reaches the edges of the shaper, the final crystal shape matches that of the shaper.\n\nThe exact dimensions of the crystal will deviate from the dimensions of the shaper because every material has a characteristic growth angle, the angle formed at the triple interface between the solid crystal, liquid film, and the atmosphere. Because of the growth angle, varying the height of the meniscus (i.e. the thickness of the liquid film) will change the dimensions of the crystal. The meniscus height is affected by pulling speed and crystallization rate. The crystallization rate depends on the temperature gradient above the shaper, which is determined by the configuration of the hot-zone of the crystal growth furnace, and the power applied to the heating elements during growth. The difference in thermal expansion coefficients between the shaper material and the crystal material can also cause appreciable size differences between the shaper and the crystal at room temperature for crystals grown at high temperatures. \n\nThe shaper material should be non-reactive with both the melt and growth atmosphere, and should be wet by the melt.\n\nIt is possible to grow multiple crystals from a single crucible using the EFG technique, for example by growing many parallel sheets. \n\nSapphire: EFG is used to grow large plates of sapphire, primarily for use as robust infrared windows for defense and other applications. Windows about 7 mm thick x 300  mm wide x 500 mm long are produced. The shaper is typically made from molybdenum.\n\nSilicon: EFG was used in the 2000s by Schott Solar to produce silicon sheets for solar photovoltaic panels, by pulling a thin-walled (~250-300 μm) octagon with faces 12.5 cm on a side and diameter about 38 cm, about 5-6 m long. The shaper is typically made from graphite.\n\nOther oxides: Many high melting-point oxides have been grown by EFG, among them GaO, LiNbO, and Nd:(LuGd)GaO (Nd:LGGG).\nOften an iridium shaper is used.\n\nHorizontal ribbon growth or HRG is a method developed for silicon by which a thin crystalline sheet is pulled horizontally from the top of a crucible. The melt level must be constantly replenished in order to keep the surface of the melt at the same height as the edge of the crucible from which the sheet is being pulled. By blowing a cooling gas at the surface of the growing sheet, very high growth rates (>400 mm/min) can be achieved. The method relies on the solid crystal floating on the surface of the melt, which works because solid silicon is less dense than liquid silicon.\n\nThe micro-pulling-down or µ-PD technique uses a small round opening in the bottom of the crucible to pull a crystalline fiber downward. Hundreds of different crystalline materials have been grown by this technique.\n\nA variation called pendant drop growth or PDG uses a slot in the bottom of the crucible to produce crystalline sheets in a similar manner.\n\nThe Stepanov technique was developed by A.V. Stepanov in the Soviet Union after 1950. The method involves pulling a crystal vertically through a shaper located at the surface of the melt. The shaper is not necessarily fed by a capillary channel as in EFG. The shaper material may be wetted or non-wetted by the melt, as opposed to EFG where the shaper material is wetted. The technique has been used to grow metal, semiconductor, and oxide crystals.\n\nCzochralski growth using a floating shaper known as a \"coracle\" was done for some III-V semiconductors prior to the development of advanced control-systems for diameter control.\n\nThe string ribbon method, also known as dendritic web or edge-supported pulling, has been used to grow semiconductor sheets including indium antimonide, gallium arsenide, germanium, and silicon.\nA seed crystal with the width and thickness matching the sheet to be grown is dipped into the top surface of the melt. Strings of a suitable material are fixed to the vertical edges of the seed and extend down through holes in the bottom of the crucible to a spool. As the seed is raised, string is continuously fed through the melt and a liquid film forms between the seed, the strings, and the melt. The film crystallizes to the seed, forming a sheet or ribbon.\n"}
{"id": "28594620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28594620", "title": "Shitagau Noguchi", "text": "Shitagau Noguchi\n\nNoguchi was born to a samurai class family in Kanazawa, Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan. He studied electrical engineering at the Tokyo Imperial University and was hired by Siemens in 1898. He designed Japan's first commercial production plant for Calcium carbide in Sendai in 1903. In 1906, two Germans, A.Frank and N. Caro, invented a new method to produce calcium cyanamide to be used a fertilizer. Noguchi learnt of this invention in a newspaper and realized that the method could be used to utilize the calcium carbide that his plant produced. He went to Germany, and with the support of an acquaintance at Siemens obtained the patent rights, beating other, larger and better-known Japanese trading firms like Mitsui and Furukawa.\n\nIn 1906, he formed the company Kiso Electric, to develop a hydroelectric power in Kagoshima prefecture under contract by local mine owners in Kyūshū. Since the capacity of the plant he built - 800 kW - was in excess of the demand, he established another company, Nippon Carbide Shokai, located in Minamata, Kumamoto, to produce calcium carbide with the surplus electricity in 1907.\n\nWith financial help from Mitsubishi, Noguchi merged his two companies into \"Nihon Chisso Hiryo\" (lit. \"Japan Nitrogenous Fertilizer\") in 1908. The name was frequently abbreviated to \"Nichitsu\". Then, with his collaborator, Fujiyama Tsuneichi, he developed a 'continuous method' of production to replace the 'alternate method' of Frank-Caro's technology. He also produced ammonium sulphate out of the calcium cyanamide, because it was safer and better known. In 1914, he formed \"Hiroshima Electric\", the forerunner of Chugoku Electric Power to develop the hydroelectric power potential of the Chugoku region of Japan.\n\nIn 1921 Noguchi bought a new technology for synthetic ammonia from an Italian, Luigi Casale. It was still at the stage of a tiny pilot plant when he purchased the license. Again, by their own effort, Nichitsu succeeded in developing a commercially viable plant and selling ammonium sulphate cheaper than the rivals could, thereby dominating the market. Nichitsu also diversified into the production of synthetic fiber and dynamite.\nIn 1922 the German rayon manufacturer Vereinigte Glanzstoff-Fabriken (VGF) invested in a new Japanese firm in partnership with Noguchi and Asahi Chemicals. The technology was licensed under conditions that prevented competition in VGF's home market, and ensured that VGF would receive the rights to any technical advances made in Japan.\n\nIn 1926, with the collaboration of the Imperial Japanese Army, Noguchi established \"Chosen Electric Power\" and \"Chosen Chisso Hiryo\". The former developed Pujon and Chagjin branches of the Yalu River in northern Korea with a number of huge hudraulic power plants, which supplied a number of huge electrochemical plants, producing a diverse range of products, from fertilizer and explosives to soda and metals.\n\nNoguchi suffered from an intracranial hemorrhage while at Seoul in 1940, and began to withdraw from active involvement in his conglomerate, which by 1941 had invested 659 million Yen, 66 percent of the fixed capital in the Nichitsu Group, in Korea. Within Korea, 34 percent of all the industrial production in 1939 was made by the Nichisu group. In 1941, Noguchi donated his personal fortune to The Korean Scholarship Foundation, dedicated to building schools, funding scholarships, and raising educational standards in Korea. In 1942, he was awarded the Order of the Sacred Treasures, 1st class. He died in 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "46781493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46781493", "title": "Swords Lee", "text": "Swords Lee\n\nStephen Roland Lee, Sr., known as Swords R. Lee (February 8, 1859 – February 13, 1929), was a wealthy lumberman from Pollock and then Alexandria, Louisiana, who served as a Democratic member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for his adopted Grant Parish from 1904 to 1908. His term corresponded with the administration of Governor Newton C. Blanchard.\n\nOne of eight children of Stephen Lee, Sr., and the former Rebecca Grantham, Lee was born two years before the start of the American Civil War in Perry County in southeastern Mississippi. He was a lineal descendant of Light Horse Harry Lee of Virginia, the father of Confederate General Robert E. Lee. His grandfather, Elijah Lee of North Carolina, fought in the 1815 Battle of New Orleans under General Andrew Jackson. Lee's middle was derived from his paternal grandmother, Martha Roland. The Lees left Perry County when he was twelve years of age. He was educated in the public schools of Grant Parish; after reaching adulthood, he taught school for a number of years.\n\nLee was the president and general manager of the Lee Lumber Company, which operated a large sawmill at Tioga in northwestern Rapides Parish. The company closed c. 1917 after the nearby timber was exhausted. He was the Grant Parish assessor during the 1890s, having been appointed to the since elected position by then Governor Murphy J. Foster, Sr. After his legislative term ended, he relocated to Alexandria. He had a large political following and worked in 1928 for the successful election of Louisiana Public Service Commissioner Huey Pierce Long, Jr., as the Louisiana governor. Lee was a cousin by marriage of Huey Long.\n\nOn November 12, 1884, Lee married Martha Cornelia Nugent (1862-1933), a daughter of Matthew and Julie Ann Mackie Nugent, pioneer Grant Parish settlers. Lee died of an illness of several months at his Alexandria home at the intersection of Fourth and St. James streets five days after his seventieth birthday. He was survived by his widow and four children, Maude Lee Eubank (1885-1958) and husband Benjamin Franklin Eubank (1882-1962), J. H. Lee, and Ethel Lee Jarrell (1896-1967) and husband Marion Fahy Jarrell (1897-1977), all of Alexandria, and Mrs. S. J. Rogers of Monroe in Ouachita Parish in northeast Louisiana. Three other Lee children had died prior to their father, Florence, Lucille, and Samuel Patterson Lee. He had two surviving grandsons, one of whom, James Eubank served briefly in the Louisiana House in 1952, during which time he was a floor leader for Governor Robert F. Kennon. Representative Eubank died of a heart attack in Alexandria at the age of thirty-seven.\n\nLee is interred with other family members at Greenwood Memorial Park in Pineville. Both Methodist and Southern Baptist pastors officiated at his funeral, with Masonic lodge graveside rites following.\n"}
{"id": "1740289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1740289", "title": "Sydney central business district", "text": "Sydney central business district\n\nThe Sydney central business district (also Sydney CBD, and often referred to simply as \"Town\" or \"the City\") is the main commercial centre of Sydney, the state capital of New South Wales and the most populous city in Australia. It extends southwards for about from Sydney Cove, the point of first European settlement in which the Sydney region was initially established. Due to its pivotal role in Australia's early history, it is one of the oldest established areas in the country.\n\nGeographically, its north–south axis runs from Circular Quay in the north to Central railway station in the south. Its east–west axis runs from a chain of parkland that includes Hyde Park, The Domain, Royal Botanic Gardens and Farm Cove on Sydney Harbour in the east; to Darling Harbour and the Western Distributor in the west. At the 2016 Australian Census, the CBD recorded a population of 17,252. \"Sydney CBD\" is very occasionally used to refer not only to the CBD proper, but also its nearby inner suburbs such as Pyrmont, Haymarket, Ultimo and Woolloomooloo.\n\nThe Sydney CBD is Australia's main financial and economic centre, as well as a leading hub of economic activity for the Asia-Pacific region. The city centre employs approximately 13% of the Sydney region's workforce. Based on industry mix and relative occupational wage levels it is estimated that economic activity ( GDP ) generated in the city in 2015/16 was approximately $118 billion. Culturally, the city centre is Sydney's focal point for nightlife and entertainment. It is also home to some of the city's most significant buildings and structures.\n\nThe Sydney CBD is an area of very densely concentrated skyscrapers and other buildings, interspersed by several parks such as Hyde Park, The Domain, Royal Botanic Gardens and Wynyard Park. George Street is the Sydney CBD's main north–south thoroughfare. The streets run on a slightly warped grid pattern in the southern CBD, but in the older northern CBD the streets form several intersecting grids, reflecting their placement in relation to the prevailing breeze and orientation to Circular Quay in early settlement.\n\nThe CBD runs along two ridge lines below Macquarie Street and York Streets. Between these ridges is Pitt Street, running close to the course of the original Tank Stream (now tunnelled). Bridge Street, took its name from the bridge running east–west that once crossed this stream. Pitt Street is the retail heart of the city which includes the Pitt Street Mall and the Sydney Tower. Macquarie Street is a historic precinct that houses such buildings as the State Parliament House and the Supreme Court of New South Wales.\n\nIn the midst of World War 1, on Valentine's day, riots racked the CBD, in what has come to be known as the Central Station Riots of 1916. A substantial segment of the violence was concentrated in the Central area. These riots involved five thousand military recruits who refused to comply with extraneous parade orders. During the riots they caused significant damage to buildings. People with \"foreign\" names were especially targeted. The recruits clashed with soldiers, resulting in the death of Private Ernest William Keefe. A number of eight people sustained injuries. Because this incident occurred in the middle of the Great War the state discouraged media coverage. Only a fifth of the rioters were court-marshalled. These riots spurred the introduction of lockout laws for pubs after 6pm. This law was only lifted in 1955.\n\nSydney CBD has many heritage-listed buildings including:\n\n\nAdministratively, the Sydney CBD falls under the authority of the local government area of the City of Sydney. The New South Wales state government also has authority over some aspects of the CBD, in particular through the Sydney Harbour Foreshore Authority. Independent Alex Greenwich has represented the Sydney seat since the 2012 by-election, triggered by the resignation of previous independent Clover Moore, who was the Lord Mayor of Sydney, due to introduced state laws preventing dual membership of state parliament and local council.\n\nThe Sydney CBD is home to some of the largest Australian companies, as well as serving as an Asia-Pacific headquarters for many large international companies. The financial services industry in particular occupies much of the available office space, with companies such as the Westpac, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Citibank, Deutsche Bank, Macquarie Bank, AMP Limited, Insurance Australia Group, AON, Marsh, Allianz, HSBC, AXA, ABN Amro, RBC and Bloomsbury Publishing all having offices.\n\n\"Church Hill\" is a northerly district in the Central Business district of Sydney, Australia. It is so named because the earliest churches in Australia were formed on this site, including St Patrick's (Roman Catholic), St Philip's (Anglican) and Scots Church (Presbyterian)\n\nThe significance of Church Hill dates back to the time of Governor Arthur Phillip, who mandated compulsory Sunday church attendance for all convicts, until they rebelled and burned down the area’s first church in 1798.\n\nThe area gained greater prominence as Church Hill on Wednesday 1 October 1800, when incoming Governor Philip Gidley King had the foundation stone laid for St Philip’s Church, which subsequently he proclaimed one of Australia’s first two parishes in 1802 (the other being St John’s in Parramatta).\n\nThe site where St Patrick’s Church currently stands is where the Roman Catholic Eucharist was first preserved in Australia, in May 1818. Celebrations for the bicentenary of this occasion were held in St Patrick’s Church on Sunday 6 May 2018.\n\nA proposed stop on the tram network under construction on George Street may be named Church Hill.\n\nSydney's CBD is serviced by commuter rail, light rail, buses and ferry transport. In addition, an underground rapid transit system known as the Sydney Metro is being developed: its first stage will link the central business district to the North Western suburbs of Sydney and a second stage that will link the North Shore to Bankstown via a tunnel underneath Sydney Harbour and the CBD is proposed.\n\nCommuter rail's main hub is Central Railway Station (\"Central\"), located in the southern part of the CBD in Haymarket: it connects services for almost all of the lines in the Sydney Trains network, as well as being the terminus for NSW TrainLink country and inter-urban rail services. There is a largely-underground CBD rail loop, accessed in both directions via Central, which services five additional CBD stations, plus an underground spur line to Bondi Junction which services two. This is known as the City Circle. The Dulwich Hill Line, the only currently operating light rail line in Sydney (another is under construction) links the southern part of the CBD and Central to nearby suburbs of Sydney's Inner-west. Buses, both government-run and privately owned, service the CBD along several dozen routes to both inner and more remote suburbs. NightRide is an after-hours bus service that operates between midnight and 5:00 am, with most services running from George Street outside the Sydney Town Hall. Sydney Ferries operate largely from Circular Quay, on the northern edge of the CBD. There are several wharves (directly beneath the elevated Circular Quay commuter rail station), with Wharf 3 operating exclusively to Manly. There are also ferries at the western edge of the CBD at King Street Wharf, just to the south of Barangaroo.\n\nSydney's culture is compacted within its central business district and inner city ring, due to its nightlife, pedestrian traffic and centrality of notable attractions. There is a large concentration of cultural institutions within the CBD including: the Museum of Sydney, the State Library of New South Wales, the Customs House branch of the City of Sydney Library, the Theatre Royal, the City Recital Hall and the Japan Foundation. There are a total of 19 churches located in the Sydney city centre.\n\nMany other cultural institutions are located at the surrounds of the CBD, such as: the Sydney Opera House and the Museum of Contemporary Art to the north, the Australian Museum and the Art Gallery of New South Wales to the east, the Powerhouse Museum to the west, White Rabbit Gallery and the Haymarket branch of the City of Sydney Library to the south.\n\nEvery January during the summer, the city celebrates with the Sydney Festival. There are art, music and dance exhibitions at indoor and outdoor venues. Australian and International theatre during the month is also featured, including Aboriginal, and Contemporary. Many of these events are free.\n\nThe Sydney Film Festival is an international event organised every year in June at various venues across the CBD. The festival opened on 11 June 1954 and was held over four days, with screenings at Sydney University. Attendance was at full capacity with 1,200 tickets sold at one guinea each.\n\nSydney boasts a lively café culture, as well as a club and bar scene distributed throughout the CBD and concentrated in a couple of locations such as Darling Harbour. Although Kings Cross is not technically located within the Sydney CBD, it is accessible via William Street, which runs through Hyde Park and is part of the inner-city region.\n\nThe Sydney CBD contains many of Australia's tallest skyscrapers, including Governor Phillip Tower, MLC Centre and World Tower, the latter consisting predominantly of apartments. It is also home to Australia's earliest skyscraper, the Australia Square building on George Street. As of 2017, the tallest structure is Centrepoint Tower at which has dominated the city skyline since it was topped out in 1981. Recently, height limits for buildings were lifted from to .\n\nSydney's CBD features a juxtaposition of old and new architecture. The old architecture dates back to Sydney's earliest days as a colony, down to the more grandiose Victorian architecture from the Gold rush era–the most substantial examples are the Queen Victoria Building and the Sydney Town Hall. Modern architectures take form as high rises and skyscrapers, which are prolific among all of Sydney's city streets. The earliest skyscraper constructed in Sydney was Culwulla Chambers, which stands at a height of and was completed in 1912. Designed by Spain, Cosh and Minnett, the building consisted of 14 floors and cost £100,000 to build, equivalent of approximately $1 million in today's money.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7173263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7173263", "title": "The Ogden", "text": "The Ogden\n\nThe Ogden (originally Streamline Tower) is a 21-story luxury condominium tower located at 150 North Las Vegas Boulevard in downtown Las Vegas, Nevada. The Ogden was announced in 2004 as the Streamline Tower condominium project, to be built on the former property of the Golden Inn motel, which was demolished at the end of the year. Work on the property began in 2005, to prepare it for the new project, which began construction the following year. The project was financed by Corus Bank, and was developed by a half-dozen investors, including Las Vegas Stars baseball player Dusty Allen.\n\nThe tower was topped off in May 2007, and was opened on May 1, 2008. After its opening, Streamline Tower suffered poor sales as the result of a weak local and national economy. That year, 48 buyers who had yet to close escrow on their units filed a federal lawsuit against Streamline Tower in an attempt to retrieve their deposit money, after alleging that their units were smaller than expected and that they had been falsely promised the ability to make profits by renting out their units like hotel rooms.\n\nIn 2009, Corus Bank foreclosed on the property, which was subsequently acquired by ST Residential later that year after the failure of Corus Bank. In 2010, the tower's units were leased to renters. In January 2011, the property was renamed The Ogden, after Ogden Avenue, one of the streets that the building faces. DK Las Vegas purchased the building in 2013, and began renovating and selling the units the following year, as the units' leases ended.\n\nIn July 2004, Vegas Valley Properties (doing business as Streamline Tower LLC) purchased the Golden Inn motel in downtown Las Vegas, located at the southeast corner of North Las Vegas Boulevard and Ogden Avenue, across from the Neonopolis mall. In September 2004, the company submitted plans to the city for a 267-foot condominium tower with 251 units and of commercial space, later reduced to . The project was being planned by a group of investors led by Patrick McCourt of Barclays North, and Dusty Allen, a former baseball player for the Las Vegas Stars. Allen was among a half-dozen investors in the project. Kevin Kelly was also a partner in the project through Vegas Valley Properties.\n\nDemolition of the Golden Inn motel began on November 30, 2004, to make room for the Streamline Tower, a 21-story, 251-unit condominium tower that was expected to cost $105 million. Occupancy of the new building was expected around December 2006. Las Vegas Mayor Oscar Goodman attended a publicity event held on the property, which included him kicking off the demolition of the motel with the swing of a sledgehammer. The new project would be located in the center of Goodman's planned entertainment district, as part of a revitalization of the downtown area. Sales began on December 3, 2004.\n\nMartin-Harris Construction, the general contractor, had cleared the site by January 2005, and was preparing to begin construction soon. By May 2005, PGAL had been chosen as the project's architect. A nearby sales office at 425 Fremont Street opened on August 12, 2005, at which point Martin-Harris had begun work on the property for the tower. Approximately $3 million was saved on concrete and steel as a result of the developers locking in prices before Hurricane Katrina.\n\nMartin-Harris spent six months preparing the site at a cost of $2 million, which included the removal of asbestos. Martin-Harris was constructing the project's infrastructure in March 2006, while a building permit was purchased for nearly $1 million. By that point, Corus Bank had agreed to provide financing for the project. The 21-story Streamline Tower was topped off in May 2007, and was scheduled for occupancy in January 2008. At the time, Allen planned to include a restaurant with live music, and was in discussions with a local celebrity chef. A six-story parking garage with 428 parking spaces was also under construction for the new property.\n\nTo increase sales, a promotion was held later that summer in which five buyers received free BMW convertible vehicles, worth $37,000 each. The opening was later scheduled to occur in February 2008. However, building inspections began that month instead. Allen hoped to obtain a temporary certificate of occupancy the following month which would allow buyers to close escrow on their units. The project was built at a cost of either $125 million or $205 million.\n\nStreamline Tower ultimately opened on May 1, 2008, with 275 units. The opening had been delayed because of difficulty obtaining a certificate of occupancy. Prices for units ranged from $469,000 to $1.35 million. Because of the poor local and national economy, only 156 of its units 57 percent had been sold, which was the lowest percentage of sales among five major condominium projects in the downtown area. Each of the property's street-level retail spaces also remained vacant after opening.\n\nIn October 2008, 48 buyers who had yet to close escrow on their units filed a federal lawsuit against the property, alleging that their units were smaller than expected and that the property had falsely promised buyers the ability to make profits by renting out their units like hotel rooms. The lawsuit sought the return of each buyer's deposit money. Streamline denied wrongdoing, stating that the claims \"are completely refuted by the clear and unambiguous terms\" of the purchase agreements. Susan Allen, the sales director for Streamline Tower and the wife of Dusty Allen, stated that sales agents were not supposed to guarantee the leasing of units. Allen also stated that no promises of leasing units had been made during the previous 15 months that she had worked for the project. The plaintiffs also had concerns about the retail spaces on the property, which were still vacant.\n\nIn November 2008, the property was appraised at $60.3 million, significantly less than the amount loaned by Corus: $104 million. Streamline Tower LLC and other companies related to the project filed for bankruptcy protection in April 2009, halting any further action in the lawsuit. Corus subsequently received permission to foreclose on the property, and was owed $108 million by Streamline Tower LLC. In June 2009, approximately 40 buyers filed a lawsuit to retrieve their deposit money. By August 2009, Corus had begun seeking buyers for the Streamline Tower property, with at least two potential buyers interested, including The Molasky Group. At that time, the appraised value of the property was $30 million to $35 million, and the building remained operational.\n\nAfter the failure of Corus Bank in September 2009, ST Residential, a division of Starwood Hotel Group, acquired the Streamline Tower out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy later that year. In 2010, the building's condominium units were leased, with prices starting at $1,000 per month. The rental concept was to continue for two years, and the company would then evaluate its success and whether to end leasing and sell the units as condominiums. Touch-up work was performed on the building, and included new exterior paint. In January 2011, the building was renamed as The Ogden, after one of the streets it faces.\n\nBy 2013, Zappos chief executive officer Tony Hsieh had become a resident in the tower. Hsieh also leased dozens of other units for employees of Zappos and for entrepreneurs through his Downtown Project. In January 2013, a small bar with a showroom was being planned for a portion of The Ogden's vacant retail space. Private equity firm DK Las Vegas, a partnership of California's KRE Capital and New York's Dune Real Estate Partners, purchased 248 units in the building in December 2013. DK Las Vegas began selling the units as condominiums in October 2014.\n\nIn March 2015, the company was spending a $2 million budget on upgrades to the units, 40 of which had already been sold. Up to that point, $1.5 million had already been spent, including a $100,000 lobby renovation, a $100,000 improvement of the building's rooftop sky deck, and a $36,500 revamping of the entrance to add new lighting. Other improvements on the rooftop included a desert landscape theme. Condominium improvements included hardwood floors, granite countertops, green building features, and new lighting. A lounge and outdoor pool were also renovated, as well as all the elevator lobbies. An average of 15 units became available each month in 2015 as rental agreements continued to expire. An Asian restaurant and bar, Itsy Bitsy Ramen and Whisky, opened inside the Ogden in April 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "31051632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31051632", "title": "Thomas Cawthron", "text": "Thomas Cawthron\n\nThomas Cawthron (25 May 1833 – 8 October 1915) was a New Zealand businessman and philanthropist responsible for the establishment of the Cawthron research institute.\n\nThomas Cawthron was born at Newington, Surrey, on 25 May 1833 and was 15 years old when his parents and family set out for Nelson, New Zealand, in the sailing ship \"Mary\". He worked in Wellington, then followed the gold miners to Australia, spending several years as a contractor for miscellaneous goods on the goldfields of Bendigo and Ballarat.\n\nReturning to Nelson in the mid-1850s when his father became ill, he won a contract to dig the test drives for copper deposits on the Dun Mountain, going on to contract for the supply of food and stores for the copper-mining project and for the Jenkins Hill coal mine. He delivered supplies to miners in the rough Mineral Belt country, around 20 km away by a mountainous track from the Nelson township. Many fortunes were made and lost in New Zealand’s 19th century gold rushes. Cawthron invested in property, shares, local bodies, war loans and mortgages and seemed to have a ‘golden touch’ in all his business transactions. A canny merchant, he amassed his wealth from offices in the beached hulk of a ship at Nelson, but most of his money came through the hunt for coal and copper and from sending supplies to gold miners in Golden Bay and Hokitika. By the time of his retirement in the late 1880s, he had amassed a considerable fortune.\n\nAfter his retirement, he lived quietly and frugally with his sister Mrs Wright. He seemed to have few interests other than the investment and care of his money. However, behind the scenes, he helped out in many individual cases of hardship and distress and contributed to causes such as relief funds, church organisations and educational and recreational schemes. In his later years, he made larger and more public gifts, including the Cathedral steps, the Rocks Road chains, Cawthron Park (in the hills to the east of the city), contributions towards a public hospital and nurses' home, and smaller donations to the Nelson Institute (which used to run the Nelson library), the Nelson School of Music and its pipe organ.\n\nThomas Cawthron died on 8 October 1915. He bequeathed £231,000, practically the whole of his estate, for the development of an industrial and technical school, institute and museum to be called the Cawthron Institute. This was officially opened in 1921 with Thomas Hill Easterfield, emeritus professor of chemistry at Victoria University College, as its first director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52833908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52833908", "title": "Vivy Yusof", "text": "Vivy Yusof\n\nDatin Vivy Yusof is an entrepreneur and the co-founder of FashionValet and The dUCk Group. Vivy is a blogging veteran of 10 years who has been sharing insights about her life and entrepreneurial journey through her personal blog, www.proudduck.com\n\nA law graduate from London School of Economics (LSE), Vivy is the Chief Creative Officer at FashionValet, a fashion e-commerce company founded by herself and her husband, Dato' Fadzarudin Shah Anuar (mostly known as Fadza), in 2010 when they were 23 years old. Now a multi-million dollar company with 150 employees and carrying 500 fashion brands, FashionValet has offices and warehouses in Malaysia, Jakarta and Singapore, and ships parcels daily to customers all over the world.\n\nVivy currently oversees the brand image and handles collaborations and PR with her connections in the media and fashion industry.\n\nFollowing the success of FashionValet, Vivy Yusof launched dUCk to convey the message that wearing scarves should be a celebrated act among women, whether Muslim or not.\n\nVivy has won several awards including; Bella Business Award 2013, Ikon Wanita Puteri UMNO 2014 Prestige Magazine's 2015 List of Top 40 Under 40, Women's Weekly Malaysia's Finance and Commerce Nominee for the Great Women of Time Awards 2015, 60 Wanita Inspirasi Nona, Young Entrepreneur Award from Tribute To Women Malaysia (the award was presented to Vivy by Her Majesty Raja Permaisuri Agong Tuanku Hajah Haminah), Top 5 in Meletop Era's 2017 Fashion category, and Anugerah Bintang Popular Berita Harian's 2017 Top 5 Social Media Personality\n\nVivy has also graced the covers of several high-profile magazines in Malaysia - HerWorld, Prestige, and Tatler. She was also named a Friend of Louis Vuitton, being the first hijabi woman to be honored with the title. Vivy was listed on Tatler's 2017 Generation T list - a group of next generation industry leaders in their region and its Top 50 Rising Tech Stars in Asia.\n\nShe has been featured in many international media including BBC, The New York Times, and Forbes. Well-acclaimed as one of Malaysia's top bloggers with 250K hits monthly on her blog, Proudduck, Vivy has been blogging for ten years and is still actively involved in her blog. Vivy is also a social media icon with over a million followers on Instagram. Recently, in 2017, Vivy started venturing into vlogging as well besides blogging, where she launched her own channel on YouTube, serving as the visual platform to share her life insights with her followers on regular basis. \n\nShe regularly attends fashion events in the Southeast Asia region as a fashion expert and social media influencer. Vivy has also participated for two years as a judge for AirAsia's Runway Ready Designer Search, where she and a panel of judges travel throughout Southeast Asia in search for the next big name in Asian fashion.\n\nVivy and her husband, Fadza, were officially welcomed into Endeavor - a global organisation that \"selects, mentors and accelerates high-impact entrepreneurs\". Fadza and Vivy are the first Malays to be a part of Endeavor team.\n\nIn April 2017, Vivy was listed on Forbes as one of Asia's Top 30 under 30.\n\nIn 2012, Vivy Yusof and Fadzarudin Shah Anuar attained first place on \"Make The Pitch\", a reality television show where the duo won RM1million investment by MyEG Services Bhd, for a 30% stake in the company. Vivy later starred in Astro Ria's reality television series, \"Love, Vivy\".\n\n\"Love, Vivy\" revolves around the life of one of Malaysia's leading faces in fashion — juggling her work, keeping on top of their leading online retail empire FashionValet and her scarf brand, dUCk, as well as her family duties as daughter, wife, and mother to two children, Daniel Azim Shah and Mariam Iman Shah.\n\nOn 21 February 2017, the second season of \"Love, Vivy\" was aired on Astro Ria.\n"}
{"id": "1422041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422041", "title": "White House of the Confederacy", "text": "White House of the Confederacy\n\nThe White House of the Confederacy is a historic house located in the Court End neighborhood of Richmond, Virginia. Built in 1818, it was the main executive residence of the sole President of the Confederate States of America, Jefferson Davis, from August 1861 until April 1865. It was viewed as the Confederate States counterpart to the White House in Washington, D.C.\n\nSince the late 19th century, it has been a house museum operated by the American Civil War Museum and is known as the White House and Museum of the Confederacy. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1960.\n\nThe First White House of the Confederacy in Montgomery, Alabama was the first official residence of the President and his family. The second White House of the Confederacy is a gray stuccoed neoclassical mansion built in 1818 by John Brockenbrough, who was president of the Bank of Virginia. Designed by Robert Mills, Brockenbrough's private residence was built in early nineteenth century on East Clay Street in Richmond's affluent Shockoe Hill neighborhood (later known as the Court End District), and was two blocks north of the Virginia State Capitol. Among his neighbors were U.S. Chief Justice John Marshall, Aaron Burr, defense attorney John Wickham, and future U.S. Senator Benjamin Watkins Leigh.\nSold by the Brockenbrough family in 1844, the house passed through a succession of wealthy families throughout the antebellum period, including U.S. Congressman and future Confederate Secretary of War James Seddon. Just prior to the American Civil War, Lewis Dabney Crenshaw purchased the house and added a third floor. He sold the home to the City of Richmond, which in turn rented it to the Confederate government as its Executive Mansion.\n\n Jefferson Davis, his wife Varina, and their children moved into the house in August 1861, and lived there for the remainder of the war. Davis suffered from recurring bouts with malaria, facial neuralgia, cataracts (in his left eye), unhealed wounds from the Mexican War (bone spurs in his heel), and insomnia. Consequently, President Davis maintained an at-home office on the second floor of the White House. This was not an unusual practice at that time – the West Wing of the White House in Washington, DC, was not added until the Theodore Roosevelt administration. President Davis' personal secretary, Colonel Burton Harrison, also lived in the house.\n\nThe Davis family was quite young during their stay at the White House of the Confederacy. When they moved in, the family consisted of the President and First Lady, six-year-old Margaret, four-year-old Jefferson Davis, Jr., and two-year-old Joseph. The two youngest Davis children, William and Varina Anne (\"Winnie\"), were born in the White House, in 1861 and 1864, respectively. Among their neighborhood playmates was George Smith Patton, Sr., whose father commanded the 22nd Virginia Infantry, and whose son commanded the U.S. Third Army in World War Two. Joseph Davis died in the spring of 1864, after a 15-foot fall from the railing on the White House's east portico. Mrs. Davis' mother and sister were occasional visitors to the Confederate executive mansion.\n\nThe house was abandoned during the evacuation of Richmond on April 2, 1865. Within twelve hours, soldiers from Major General Godfrey Weitzel's XVIII Corps seized the former Confederate White House, intact. President Abraham Lincoln, who was in nearby City Point (now Hopewell, Virginia), traveled up the James River to tour the captured city, and visited Davis' former residence for about three hours – although the President only toured the first floor, feeling it would be improper to visit the more private second floor of another man's home. Admiral David Dixon Porter accompanied Lincoln during the visit to the former Confederate executive mansion. They held a number of meetings with local officials in the White House. Among them was Confederate Brigadier General Joseph Reid Anderson, who owned the Tredegar Iron Works.\n\nDuring Reconstruction, the White House of the Confederacy served as the headquarters for Military District Number One (Virginia), and was occasionally used as the residence of the commanding officer of the Department of Virginia. Among those who served there were Major Generals Edward O.C. Ord, Alfred Terry, Henry Halleck, and Edward R.S. Canby. When Reconstruction ended in Virginia, (October 1870), the City of Richmond retook possession of the house, and subsequently used it as Richmond Central School, one of the first public schools in postwar Richmond.\n\nWhen the City announced its plans to demolish the building to make way for a more modern school building in 1890, the Confederate Memorial Literary Society was formed with the sole purpose of saving the White House from destruction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2804936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2804936", "title": "William A. Clark", "text": "William A. Clark\n\nWilliam Andrews Clark Sr. (January 8, 1839March 2, 1925) was an American politician and entrepreneur, involved with mining, banking, and railroads.\n\nClark was born in Connellsville, Pennsylvania. He moved with his family to Iowa in 1856 where he taught school and studied law at Iowa Wesleyan College. In 1862, he traveled west to become a miner. After working in quartz mines in Colorado, during 1863 Clark made his way to new gold fields to find his fortune in the Montana gold rush.\n\nHe settled in the capital of Montana Territory, Bannack, Montana, and began placer mining. Though his claim paid only moderately, Clark invested his earnings in becoming a trader, driving mules back and forth between Salt Lake City and the boomtowns of Montana to transport eggs and other basic supplies.\n\nHe soon changed careers again and became a banker in Deer Lodge, Montana. He repossessed mining properties when owners defaulted on their loans, placing him in the mining industry. He made a fortune with copper mining, small smelters, electric power companies, newspapers, railroads (trolley lines around Butte and the San Pedro, Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad from Salt Lake City, Utah to San Pedro and Los Angeles, California), and other businesses, becoming known as one of three \"Copper Kings\" of Butte, Montana, along with Marcus Daly and F. Augustus Heinze.\n\nBetween 1884 and 1888, Clark constructed a 34-room, Tiffany-decorated home on West Granite Street, incorporating the most modern inventions available, in Butte, Montana. This home is now the Copper King Mansion bed-and-breakfast, as well as a museum. In 1899, Clark built Columbia Gardens for the children of Butte. It included flower gardens, a dance pavilion, amusement park, lake, and picnic areas.\n\nHe died on March 2, 1925, and is interred in Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York City.\n\nClark served as president of both Montana state constitutional conventions in 1884 and 1889.\n\nClark yearned to be a statesman and used his newspaper, the \"Butte Miner\", to push his political ambitions. At this time, Butte was one of the largest cities in the West. He became a hero in Helena, Montana, by campaigning for its selection as the state capital instead of Anaconda. This battle for the placement of the capital had subtle Irish vs. English, Catholic vs. Protestant, and non-Masonic vs. Masonic elements. Clark's long-standing dream of becoming a United States Senator resulted in scandal in 1899 when it was revealed that he bribed members of the Montana State Legislature in return for their votes. At the time, U.S. Senators were chosen by their respective state legislatures. The corruption of his election contributed to the passage of the 17th Amendment. The U.S. Senate refused to seat Clark because of the 1899 bribery scheme, but a later senate campaign was successful, and he served a single term from 1901 until 1907. In responding to criticism of his bribery of the Montana legislature, Clark is reported to have said, \"I never bought a man who wasn't for sale.\"\nClark died at the age of 86 in his mansion at 962 Fifth Avenue in New York City. His estate at his death was estimated to be worth $300 million, (equivalent to $ in today's dollars), making him one of the wealthiest Americans ever.\nIn a 1907 essay, Mark Twain, who was a close friend of Clark's rival Henry H. Rogers, an organizer of the Amalgamated Copper Mining Company, portrayed Clark as the very embodiment of Gilded Age excess and corruption:\n\nClark was married twice. His first wife was Katherine Louise \"Kate\" Stauffer (1844 Pennsylvania – 1893 New York).\n\nTogether, they had seven children:\n\nAfter Kate's death in 1893, William married his second and final wife, the woman who had been his teenage ward, Anna Eugenia La Chapelle (March 10, 1878 Michigan – October 11, 1963 New York). They claimed to have been married in 1901 in France. Anna was 23 and William was 62. They had two children:\n\nIn early 1946 Anna commissioned the Paganini Quartet, and acquired the four famous Stradivarius instruments once owned by Niccolo Paganini for their use.\n\nWilliam Clark donated 135 acres to the Girl Scouts in honor of his daughter, Louise Amelia Andrée, who died aged 16 of meningitis and had been very happy there. The Girl Scout camp in Briarcliff Manor was named Camp Andree Clark.\n\nClark's son, William Andrews Clark Jr., founder of the Los Angeles Philharmonic in 1919, left his library of rare books and manuscripts to the regents of the University of California, Los Angeles. Today, the William Andrews Clark Memorial Library specializes in English literature and history from 1641 to 1800, materials related to Oscar Wilde and his associates, and fine printing.\n\nHuguette (pronounced: oo-GETT), born in Paris, France in June 1906, was known as a reclusive heiress and was the youngest child of Clark with his second wife, Anna Eugenia La Chapelle. She married once, but divorced less than a year later. She led a reclusive life thereafter, communicating very little with the public including her extended family. She lived in three magnificent apartments, with a total of 42 rooms, on New York's Fifth Avenue at 72nd Street, overlooking Central Park. In 1991, she moved out of her apartment in New York and for the remainder of her life, voluntarily lived in various New York City hospitals.\n\nIn February 2010, she became the subject of a series of reports on msnbc.com after it was reported that the caretakers of her three residences (including a $24 million estate in Connecticut, a sprawling seaside estate in Santa Barbara, California and her Fifth Avenue apartments valued at $100 million) had not seen her in decades. These articles were the basis for the 2013 bestselling book \"Empty Mansions: The Mysterious Life of Huguette Clark and the Spending of a Great American Fortune.\" by investigative reporter Bill Dedman.\n\nHer final residence was Beth Israel Medical Center, where she died on the morning of May 24, 2011, age 104. Huguette's extraordinary collection of arts and antiquities were consigned to go on the auction block at Christie's in June 2014, over three years after her death.\n\nClark's nephew, Walter Miller Clark, son of James Ross and Miriam Augusta (Evans) Clark, along with Walter's wife, Virginia (McDowell) Clark, were passengers on the RMS \"Titanic\". He was among the 1,514 who died on April 15, 1912 after the ship struck an iceberg at 2:20 a.m. She survived and arrived in New York City a widow. Some of Mr. Clark's personal items were retrieved during an expedition to the site of the sinking in 1994 in the debris field. They were identified by engraved initials. They included shaving soap, toiletry items, cuff links, and gambling chips. Walter's wife, Virginia, was rescued by the RMS \"Carpathia\".\n\nClark's art collection was donated to the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, D.C. after his death, greatly enriching that museum's holdings of European as well as American art. The Clark donation also included the construction of a new wing for the Corcoran, known appropriately as the Clark Wing.\n\nThe city of Las Vegas was established as a maintenance stop for Clark's San Pedro, Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad. He subdivided 110 acres into 1200 lots, some of which on the corner of Fremont Street in Las Vegas sold for as much as $1750. The Las Vegas area was organized as Clark County, Nevada, in Clark's honor. Clark's involvement in the founding of Las Vegas is recounted in a decidedly negative light by Chris Romano in the \"Las Vegas\" episode of Comedy Central's Drunk History, with Rich Fulcher portraying Clark.\n\nClarkdale, Arizona, named for Clark, was the site of smelting operations for Clark's mines in nearby Jerome, Arizona. The town includes the historic Clark Mansion, which sustained severe fire damage on June 25, 2010. Clarkdale is home to the Verde Canyon Railroad wilderness train ride which follows the historic route that Clark had constructed in 1911 and home to the Copper Art Museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8373308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8373308", "title": "Ye Htoon", "text": "Ye Htoon\n\nYe Htoon, (; ) also known as Roland Chan Htoon , (1937 – 7 May 2010) was a prominent Burmese lawyer, sometime-jailed political dissident, and a successful entrepreneur, and one of the notables of the now-extinct Scouting movement in Burma.\n\nYe Htoon was the eldest son of Chan Htoon, former Attorney General and Associate Justice of the Supreme Court and the architect of the first constitution of Burma in 1947, and Khin Khin Thein. He attended Myoma National High School, Ananda College, Colombo, Sri Lanka and Thacher School, Ojai Valley, California, is a 1961 graduate of Bucknell University, and received a postgraduate Bachelor of Law degree from the Rangoon University in 1965. His wife Onma Maw is the daughter of statesman Dr. Ba Maw, the first Prime Minister and the Head of State of Burma.\n\nThen-Lieutenant Ye Htoon served as the last Director General of the Union of Burma Boy Scouts and Girl Guides, and reported that the military government dissolved the Union of Burma Boy Scouts, on 1 March 1964.\n\nYe Htoon was under detention for the first time from 1962 to 1963 for alleged participation in the \"7 July Upheaval\". He was arrested again from November 1971 to July 1972 for his connection with Burmese expatriates and foreign firms, and action was taken against him the third time in January 1975 for participation in what has come to be known as the \"U Thant crisis\", student-led protests over the shabby treatment by the Ne Win government of the remains of U Thant which were crushed by the military government, when he was given a 10-year prison term. He was freed in July 1980 under the Government's Amnesty Order No. 2180. He was detained in June 1986, accused of involvement in illegal dollar transaction, but was freed two weeks later under a personal surety.\n\nHe was a pioneer in bringing digital switching telephone exchanges to Burma, and has amassed a vast experience with the country's economic system. A business consultant to many international companies, he is now Chairman of Maw Htoon and Partners Co., Ltd., Shambhala Tours Co., Ltd., Shambhala Financial Services and the Myanmar Thai Gypsum Co., Ltd.\n\nAt a lengthy press conference on 9 September 1989, State Law and Order Restoration Council First Secretary Brigadier General Khin Nyunt stated, \"Fifty-two persons including Ye Htoon, who were in charge of the \"underground youth organization\" and who were trying to cause unrest in the country, were interrogated, and consequently documentary and other evidence (was) seized... We received information that a person called Ye Htoon, resident at 5/A Po Sein Road, Bahann Township, had been in contact with an organization called 'Da Nya Ta' (Alliance for Democratic Solidarity, Union of Burma) led by Thanmani Bo Khin Maung, and was aiding and abetting that group's work from Yangon since. Information was also received that he had formed the underground youth organization called FFB (National Freedom Fighters of Burma) and was striving to cause unrest in the country under his supervision; the National Intelligence Bureau called in and interrogated 52 persons including Ye Htoon beginning 31 July 1989.\"\n\nYe Htoon was picked up, had his teeth kicked out and was sentenced to 19 years hard-labor rigorous imprisonment, for participating in the 1988 democratic uprising. The specific crime, according to the junta, was that he had met Bertil Lintner and provided him with information. He is also accused of being a ghostwriter for \"Outrage\", a book authored by Lintner. He was imprisoned for four years, from 1989 to 1993.\n\nYe Htoon, as the leader of the Myanmar Mingala Foundation, appears to be making preparations for the 2010 Burmese elections before his death.\n\n\n"}
