{"id": "27995292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27995292", "title": "A Little Bit of Heaven (2011 film)", "text": "A Little Bit of Heaven (2011 film)\n\nA Little Bit of Heaven (formerly titled Earthbound) is a 2011 romantic comedy film directed by Nicole Kassell, and starring Kate Hudson and Gael García Bernal.\n\nMarley Corbett is a quickwitted, carefree ad executive living in New Orleans, who embraces her easy going attitude, shuns any major responsibilities, and gains support and strength from a close circle of friends. She also enjoys casual dating and refuses to fall in love. One day, after an appointment, she is told by Dr. Julian Goldstein that she has terminal cancer. He is deeply impressed by the way Marley accepts the news with humour and dignity. While under anesthetic, God appears to Marley in heaven and asks her to make three wishes. She chooses to fly, to win a million dollars (not tax free), and a third that is later revealed.\n\nMarley tells her friends the news, including her parents who separated years earlier and don't speak now. Her mother is persistent and overbearing, and instantly begins to smother Marley by visiting too often and making her meals to keep her strength up. Marley's father is the opposite; distant and reserved, and doesn't seem bothered with reconnecting with Marley with the time she has left. While driving through town one morning, Marley and her friend Sarah decide to take part in a radio call game where the 97th caller wins a prize. They get through and Marley is told she's won flying lessons - her first wish granted. Her other friend Renee is pregnant with her second child.\n\nAs the weeks go by, Marley's health starts to deteriorate and she visits Julian more and more. One night, they see each other at a band night at their local bar and decide to spend the rest of the night by going on a date. They start to develop feelings for one another.\n\nMarley tells her boss about the cancer and he asks her about her life insurance plans, since their company has a policy that anybody who has a life-threatening illness can cash out, gaining a million dollars ($500,000 dollars after tax) instantly - her second wish.\n\nAfter another date, Marley and Julian sleep together and begin a relationship. However, she soon starts to feel dismayed when she comes to the realisation that they won't have a future together, and flees quickly one morning before he wakes. That afternoon, they argue in the park and Marley breaks it off. She becomes distant from and jealous of her friends who are all going through positive changes. After visiting heaven in her dreams for a second time, God makes her realise that she needs to cherish what she has while she's still alive and, for the first time, Marley admits to being in love. Later that day, she visits Julian to rekindle their relationship, apologizes to the friends she has pushed away and even makes peace with her father.\n\nAt home over the following weeks, Marley is able to do nothing but lie in bed, and starts focusing on all of the things she is going to miss. She writes cards for special occasions she won't be around for in the future and writes letters to her loved ones, giving them all to her mother for her to give out at the right times.\n\nOne morning, Marley and Sarah sit in the park. Marley confesses to Sarah that she is no longer afraid to die, even though Sarah is terrified at the prospect of having to live without her. Marley drifts off and Sarah is unable to wake her. Knowing it's almost time, Marley is visited by everyone in the hospital who surround her bed and wait with her until the end. The exception is Renee, who is in labor with her son. Julian makes it in the nick of time to say goodbye and, in that final moment, Marley realizes her third wish was to fall in love. The film ends with Marley's funeral, a colorful celebration of her life with all of her friends and family.\n\n\nThe film got extremely negative reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes gives a score of 4% based on 52 reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "54726306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54726306", "title": "Academy of Performing Arts, Tel Aviv", "text": "Academy of Performing Arts, Tel Aviv\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts is a theatre centre and a school of theatre and performance, operating since 2010 in Tel Aviv, in collaboration with the Open University of Israel.\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts was established in 2010 in Tel Aviv by a group of theatre practitioners, among them Professor Avraham Oz; Professor Ahuva Belkin; actress Sandra Sadeh; directors and actors Moni Moshonov and Oded Kotler; director Amit Gazit; and theatre designer and translator Tal Itzhaki, who functions as the general director of the Academy since its establishment; Roni Pisker, actor, director and puppeteer, lighting designer Professor Ben-Tzion Munitz; and Dr Chen Alon, director of community theatre. This nucleus of founders was later joined by many other members of faculty, among them actress and film director Michal Bat-Adam; director and musician Shosh Reisman; international opera singer Gabi Sadeh; dancer and choreographer Ran Ben-Dror; directors and mime artists Gnady Babitsky and Ophira Laniado; director Mouneer Bakri; Street theatre and performance creators Avi Gibson-Barel and Yinon Zafrir; playwrights Ala Hlehel, Dr Michael Morris-Reich and Gour Koren; Film directors Yankul Goldwasser and Kehat Finkel; directors and actors Amnon Meskin, Sharon Alexander, Muhammad Bakri, Shalom Shmuelov, Dor Peles, Gita Munte and Tahel Ran; actresses Keren Tsur and Ahuva Keren.\nActor and director Juliano Mer-Khamis, the founder of the Freedom Theatre at the Jenin refugee camp, was a member of faculty until his assassination on April 4, 2011. The Academy Theatre commemorates him by the \"Annual Juliano Mer-Khamis Production.\"\n\n\nThe Academy's curriculum is not unified, and does not operate according to built-in program. Each student selects her/his personal curriculum, consulted by the faculty, reflecting one's proclivities and abilities. The Academy's program is varied in acting and performance methods and styles, attempting to expose the students to a large variety of approaches to theatre and film performance and become, as much as possible, a multi-styled creators and performers. Thus many of the Academy's classes aim both as training workshops as well as performance targeted, leading to a final project finally performed in front of internal or external audience. \nIn addition to the regular curriculum, the Academy operates the Academy Theatre which regularly mounts productions of professional standards, involving professional actors, some of whom are the Academy graduates and others graduates of other schools. The Academy also holds public discussions and lectures on cultural and artistic matters, and the Academy bar hosts musical programs and small scale shows. Assembled from donations from various sources, the Academy has one of the largest theatre and culture library in Tel Aviv, and in 2015 the Gideon Tamir reading corner was inaugurated, for the use of students, faculty and the general public.\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts, Tel Aviv is not recognized as a higher education institution conferring degrees, yet it collaborates with the Israeli Open University of which it is an official study centre (no. 698). Each semester, according to demand, several classes of the Open University are given, tutored by the faculty of the Open University. Students who graduated from the Academy of Performing Arts, provided they have completed the full curriculum of the Academy, are entitled to apply for recognition of several credits from the studies towards a bachelor's degree. The recommended regular curriculum of each of the Academy's six semesters consists of at least 20 weekly hours of the Academy classes, plus optional 2 classes from the studies of the open University, all to be selected from the choice of classes offered that semester. \nIn addition to the three years full program of studies, the Academy holds shorter programs designed to enable completion of studies for students who studied partial studies at other recognized schools of drama, while recognizing the classes studied in the former frameworks as parts of them full program. Also, the Academy holds on demand basic preparatory programs for students who would like to be admitted later for full programs of studies, whether in the Academy itself or elsewhere.\n\nAs of summer 2017 the Academy theatre has launched the Alpha 13 annual festival, to be held every year celebrating the end of the summer, including a prize competition of stage performances, house and guest productions, as well as music and film events. The 2017 festival consisted of 5 competition shows (selected by an artistic committee from about 30 applying groups and artists), 4 house productions, 7 guest shows and 4 special events of music and film. Most of these shows and events first opened in the festival, and others had their Tel Aviv debut during the four weeks of the festival. The festival major theme was \"languages\": a frivolous, festive and undisciplined variety of semantic languages (Hebrew, Arabic, Amharic and English), of performance styles, and of artistic genres.\n\nOver the years the repertory of the Academy theatre consisted of a variety of shows, covering various areas of theatre and performance. Some of the most successful shows were \"Split Screen\", a combined intertwined dramatization of short stories by Israeli poet Dalia Rabikowitz and Egyptian novelist Naguib Mahfouz; Commedia dell'Arte adaptations of Carlo Goldoni's \"Military Lover\" and Leon Katz' \"The Three Cuckolds\"; \"Krum\"(Excerpts) and \"Heffets\" by Hanoch Levin; Federico García Lorca's \"The House of Bernarda Alba\"(Excerpts); Arthur Miller's \"The Crucible\"(Excerpts); Sarah Daniels' \"Neaptide\"(Excerpts) \"Woyzeck\" by Büchner; Harold Pinter's \"Ashes to Ashes\" and \"Mountain Language\"(Excerpts); \"Good\" by C. P. Taylor (Who by Fire by Leonard Cohen, Hebrew lyrics by Avraham Oz, musical arrangement by Yuval Messner, from the production of \"Good\" at the Academy Theatre); Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice\" (Jessica's departure, to the lyrics of Serge Reggiani's Ma fille); Pam Gems' \"Dusa, Fish, Vy, Stas\" (in Arabic); \"Back River\" by Rachel Shalita; \"The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds\" by Paul Zindel, Jonathan Harvey's \"Beautiful Thing\", and many others, as well as \"playlects\" (\"play cum lecture\"), such as Avraham Oz and his players performing and discussing love, courtship and marriage in Shakespeare (Oz and players in Shakespeare playlect).\n"}
{"id": "50756104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50756104", "title": "Alcohol-free zone", "text": "Alcohol-free zone\n\nAn alcohol-free zone is a geographic area, location or establishment where the public consumption and sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. Alcohol-free zones have been established in some areas to address problems with drinking- and binge drinking-related crime, antisocial behavior, assaults and disorderly behavior. Alcohol-free zones have been opposed in some communities, such as in Bath, England, which has \"a tradition of open-air bars and restaurants.\"\n\nIn New South Wales, Australia, some streets are designated as alcohol-free zones, which is demarcated with signage stating such. Police may issue a warning to violators, and those who continue to drink can be fined and have their alcoholic beverages seized. Many parks in New South Wales are designated as alcohol-free zones. Bondi in New South Wales, Australia established an alcohol-free zone in the city in 2004 in efforts to reduce assaults and antisocial behavior influenced by street drinking.\n\nAs of April 2016, Sydney, Australia has over 60 alcohol-free zones. The City Council of Sydney proposed to eliminate the alcohol-free zones in April 2016.\n\nAlcohol-free zone networks have been established in areas of Azerbaijan since at least 1996. These zones are located in areas such as cafes, tea shops and recreation centers.\n\nThe first alcohol-free zone established in the United Kingdom was in Coventry, England in 1988. Initially, the entire city center was declared to be an alcohol-free zone. The zone was later expanded to include the entire city.\n\nBoston, Lincolnshire established a street drinking ban in January 2015 to address concerns with the antisocial problems associated with public alcohol consumption. The street drinking ban includes the town center and other areas. Under rules of the ban, those caught drinking in these areas can be fined £100 for a first offense. A second offense within six months after having committed a first one can be fined up to £500. Additionally, those that are requested to stop drinking and continue to do so can receive a fine of up to £500. In January 2015 to commemorate the event, various town council members and city police attended an event where cans of beer were poured down a city street drain.\n\nIn 2009, Knowsley, Merseyside established alcohol-free zones in some of its parks to address problems with binge drinking-related crime and antisocial behavior. Drinking in licensed drinking establishments was not affected by the zones.\n\nLiverpool, England has some alcohol-free zones in areas of the city.\n\nThe entire region of Attappadi, Kerala, India was established as an alcohol-free zone in 1996 by Chief Minister AK Antony. Despite the ban, alcohol has been illegally brought into the region by community residents who travel to Annaikatti to purchase liquor from TASMAC stores.\n\nSome parks and recreation areas in the United States are alcohol-free zones, such as in Johnson County, Iowa, where alcohol consumption is allowed in some park and recreation areas but not others. For example, alcoholic beverages may be consumed in some day use areas and campgrounds in parks, but not in beach areas within some parks.\n\nThe riverfront at Covington, Ohio was established as an alcohol-free zone circa 1989 by Covington police.\n\n"}
{"id": "18950825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950825", "title": "Americanization", "text": "Americanization\n\nIn countries outside the United States of America, Americanization or Americanisation is the influence American culture and business have on other countries, such as their media, cuisine, business practices, popular culture, technology, or political techniques. The term has been used since at least 1907. While not necessarily a pejorative term, it is most often used by critics in the target country who are against the influences. \nAmericanization has become more prevalent since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1989–91, and especially since the advent of widespread high speed Internet use starting in the mid-2000s. In Europe, in recent years there is growing concern about Americanization through Google, Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, Apple Inc., and Uber, among many other Internet-oriented corporations based in the U.S. European governments have increasingly expressed concern regarding privacy issues, as well as antitrust and taxation issues regarding the new American giants. The \"Wall Street Journal\" in 2015 reported \"deep concerns in Europe’s highest policy circles about the power of U.S. technology companies.\"\n\nWithin the United States, the term Americanization refers to the process of acculturation by immigrants or annexed populations (e.g. the Californios) to American customs and values. \n\nHollywood (the American film and television industry) since the 1920s has dominated most of the world's media markets. It is the chief medium by which people across the globe see American fashions, customs, scenery and way of life.\n\nIn general, the United States government plays only a facilitating role in the dissemination of films, television, books, journals and so on. However, during the occupation of former Axis enemies countries after World War II, the government played a major role in restructuring the media in those countries to eliminate totalitarianism and promote democracy, against communism. For example, In Germany, the American occupation headquarters, Office of Military Government, United States (OMGUS) in 1945 began its own newspaper based in Munich. \"Die Neue Zeitung\" was edited by German and Jewish émigrés who fled to the United States before the war. Its mission was to destroy Nazi cultural remnants, and encourage democracy by exposing Germans to how American culture operated. There was great detail on sports, politics, business, Hollywood, and fashions, as well as international affairs. Americanization would continue to spread out over the Iron Curtain even before the fall of the Soviet Union and periodically after.\n\nCopies of American-based TV programs are re-broadcast around the world, many of them through American broadcasters and their subsidiaries (such as HBO Asia, CNBC Europe and CNN International). Many of these distributors broadcast mainly American programming on their TV channels. In 2006, a survey of 20 countries by \"Radio Times\" found seven American shows in the ten most-watched: \"\", \"Lost\", \"Desperate Housewives\", \"The Simpsons\", \"\", \"Without a Trace\" and \"\".\n\nAmerican films are also extremely popular around the world (even animated films, most notably those from Disney, Pixar, DreamWorks, Illumination, Blue Sky and Sony Pictures Animation), often dominating cinemas as a result of a high demand of US product exported to consumers to clear away the outlook of World War II. Out of the top-50 highest-grossing films of all time, all of them were made entirely or partially in the United States. Often part of the negotiating in free trade agreements between the U.S. and other nations involves screen quotas. One such case is Mexico, which abolished screen quotas following the establishment of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with the U.S. Recently South Korea has agreed to reduce its quota under pressure from the U.S. as part of a free trade deal.\n\nMany U.S.-based artists, such as Elvis Presley and Michael Jackson are recognized worldwide and have sold over 500 million albums each. Michael Jackson's album \"Thriller\", at 100 million sales, is the best-selling album of all time.\n\nThrough the study of vocabulary and spelling of English words in books and tweets, American English is more common in communities in European Union compared to British English. This trend is more apparent in the events following World War II and the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nOf the top ten global brands, seven are based in the United States. Coca-Cola, which holds the top spot, is often viewed as a symbol of Americanization. The worldwide tours of musician Louis Armstrong were sometimes referred to as \"Coca-Cola diplomacy.\" Fast food is also often viewed as being a symbol of U.S. marketing dominance. Companies such as McDonald's, Burger King, Pizza Hut, Kentucky Fried Chicken and Domino's Pizza among others have numerous outlets around the world.\nMany of the world's biggest computer companies are also U.S.-based, such as Microsoft, Apple, Intel, HP Inc., Dell and IBM, and much of the software bought worldwide is created by U.S.-based companies. Carayannis and Campbell note that \"The USA occupies, also in global terms, a very strong position in the software sector.\"\n\nBy 1900 observers saw \"Americanization\" as synonymous with progress and innovation. In Germany in the 1920s, the American efficiency movement was called \"rationalization\" and it was a powerful social and economic force. In part it looked explicitly at American models, especially Fordism. \"Rationalization\" meant higher productivity and greater efficiency, promising science would bring prosperity. More generally it promised a new level of modernity and was applied to economic production and consumption as well as public administration. Various versions of rationalization were promoted by industrialists and social democrats, by engineers and architects, by educators and academics, by middle class feminists and social workers, by government officials and politicians of many parties. As ideology and practice, rationalization challenged and transformed not only machines, factories, and vast business enterprises but also the lives of middle-class and working-class Germans. Department stores threatened the more local businesses, with low prices and chain-managed stores. The small businesses were determined and fought back to protect their source of income from the U.S. market.\nDuring the Cold War, the Americanization was the method to counter the processes of Sovietization around the world. Education, schools, and universities in particularly, became the main target for Americanization. However, the resistance to Americanization of the university community restrained it.\n\nDuring the 15 years from 1950 to 1965, American investments in Europe soared by 800% to $13.9 billion, and in the European Economic Community rose 10 times to $6.25 billion. Europe's share of American investments increased from 15% to 28%. The investments were of very high visibility and generated much talk of Americanization. Even so, American investments in Europe represented only 50% of the total European investment and American-owned companies in the European Economic Community employ only 2 or 3% of the total labor force. The basic reason for the U.S. investments is no longer lower production costs, faster economic growth, or higher profits in Europe, but the desire to maintain a competitive position based largely American technological superiority. Opposition to U.S. investments, originally confined to France, later spread to other European countries. Public opinion began to resent American advertising and business methods, personnel policies, and the use of the English language by American companies. Criticism was also directed toward the international currency system which was blamed for inflationary tendencies as a result of the dominant position of the U.S. dollars. However, by the 1970s European investments in the U.S. increased even more rapidly than vice versa, and Geir Lundestad finds there was less talk of the Americans buying Europe.\n\nAmericanization has become more prevalent since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Until the late 1980s, the Communist press could be counted on to be especially critical of the United States. To some extent Russia continued that role under Vladimir Putin and there are similar tendencies in China. Putin in 2013 published an op-ed in \"The New York Times\" attacking the American tendency to see itself as an exceptional, indispensable nation. \"It is extremely dangerous\", Putin warned, \"to encourage people to see themselves as exceptional, whatever the motivation.\"\n\nA new dimension of anti-Americanism is fear of the pervasiveness of American Internet technology. Americanization has arrived through widespread high speed Internet and smart phone technology since 2008, with a large fraction of the new apps and hardware being designed in Silicon Valley. In Europe, there is growing concern about excess Americanization through Google, Facebook, Twitter, the iPhone and Uber, among many other American Internet-based corporations. European governments have increasingly expressed concern about privacy issues, as well as antitrust and taxation issues regarding the new American giants. There is a fear that they are significantly evading taxes, and posting information that may violate European privacy laws. The \"Wall Street Journal\" in 2015 reported \"deep concerns in Europe's highest policy circles about the power of U.S. technology companies.\"\n\nBerghahn (2010) analyzes the debate on the usefulness of the concepts of 'Americanization' and 'Westernization'. He reviews the recent research on the European–American relationship during the Cold War that has dealt with the cultural impact of the United States upon Europe. He then discusses the relevant work on this subject in the fields of economic and business history. Overall, the article tries to bring out that those who have applied the concept of 'Americanization' to their research on cultural or economic history have been well aware of the complexities of trans-Atlantic relations in this period, whether they were viewed as a two-way exchange or as a process of circulation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4096064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4096064", "title": "Apergy", "text": "Apergy\n\nApergy is a fictitious form of anti-gravitational energy first described by Percy Greg in his 1880 sword and planet novel \"Across the Zodiac\".\n\nIt is also used by John Jacob Astor IV in his 1894 science fiction novel, \"A Journey in Other Worlds\".\n\nApergy can also be found in an 1896 article by Clara Jessup Bloomfield-Moore, called \"Some Truths About Keely\". In it, apergy is used to describe the latent force John Keely harnessed, by using frequency to release the latent force found within all atomic matter.\n\nIn an 1897, ostensibly non-fictitious, article in \"The San Francisco Call\" titled \"The Secret of Aerial Flight Revealed\", science correspondent Frank M. Close, D. Sc., visits an unnamed Hindu man masquerading as a viticulturist somewhere on the Pacific coast who claims to have invented a flying boat that uses an \"apergent\" -- a rare metal called \"radlum\" -- to produce controlled apergic force, allowing the vessel to ascend and descend. The inventor describes apergy as \"a force obtained by blending positive and negative electricity with ultheic, the third element or state of electric energy\" and calls apergy a \"second phase of gravity\", hinting at a third phase as well.\n\nIn S. P. Meek's short story \"Cold Light\", which appeared in \"Astounding Stories of Super-Science\", March 1930, apergy is mentioned as the opposite force of gravity.\n\nIn Chris Roberson's short story \"Annus Mirabilis\" from the 2006 second volume of \"Tales of the Shadowmen\", Doctor Omega and Albert Einstein investigate apergy. Apergy is also mentioned in the Warren Ellis comic \"Aetheric Mechanics\", as being generated by Cavorite technology from \"The First Men in the Moon\".\n"}
{"id": "25653831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25653831", "title": "Bangladesh Parjatan Corporation", "text": "Bangladesh Parjatan Corporation\n\nBangladesh Parjatan Corporation (BPC) () is a statutory board under the Ministry of Civil Aviation & Tourism of Bangladesh, tasked to promote the tourism industry of the country. It is the National Tourism Organization of the country .Recently Bangladesh Government has formed Tourist Police unit to better protect local and foreign tourists as well as look after the nature and wildlife in the tourist spots. The present Chairman is Aparup Chowdhury. \n\nThe Board of Bangladesh Parjatan Corporation, established in the year 1973 consists of a Chairman and 3 whole- time Directors. According to the Bangladesh Parjatan Corporation Order 1972, the purpose of the board are\n\n\nThe corporation performs following functions:\n\n"}
{"id": "36230499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36230499", "title": "Beta Phi Mu Award", "text": "Beta Phi Mu Award\n\nThe Beta Phi Mu Award is an annual award to a library school faculty member or to an individual for distinguished service to education for librarianship. The first award was made in 1954 to Rudolph Hjalmar Gjelsness, Dean of the University of Michigan's Library Science Department from 1940 to 1964. The Award is sponsored by the International Honorary Society, Beta Phi Mu. Prominent Leaders in the field of Librarianship include those who were selected for the Beta Phi Mu Award.\nBeta Phi Mu (ΒΦΜ or βφμ) was founded in 1948 by a group of leading librarians and library educators to recognize and encourage scholastic achievement among library and information studies students. The motto, \"Aliis inserviendo consumor,\" meaning “Consumed in the service of others” was selected by the founders based on the concept of dedication of librarians and other information professionals to the service of others. Eligibility for membership in Beta Phi Mu is by invitation of the faculty from an American Library Association accredited professional degree program.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1516224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516224", "title": "Birch bark manuscript", "text": "Birch bark manuscript\n\nBirch bark manuscripts are documents written on pieces of the inner layer of birch bark, which was commonly used for writing before the advent of mass production of paper. Evidence of birch bark for writing goes back many centuries and in various cultures.\n\nThe oldest dated birch bark manuscripts are numerous Gandhāran Buddhist texts from approximately the 1st century CE, believed to have originated in Afghanistan, likely by the Dharmaguptaka sect. Translations of the texts, mostly in Kharoṣṭhī, have produced the earliest known versions of significant Buddhist scriptures, including a \"Dhammapada\", discourses of Buddha that include the \"Rhinoceros Sutra\", Avadanas and Abhidharma texts. Sanskrit birch bark manuscripts written with Brahmi script have been dated to the first few centuries CE. Several early Sanskrit writers, such as Kālidāsa (c. 4th century CE), Sushruta (c. 3rd century CE), and Varāhamihira (6th century CE) mention the use of birch bark for manuscripts. The bark of \"Betula utilis\" (Himalayan Birch) is still used today in India and Nepal for writing sacred mantras.\n\nRussian texts discovered in Veliky Novgorod have been dated to approximately the 9th to 15th century CE. Most of those documents are letters written by various people in the Old Novgorod dialect.\n\nThe Irish language's native writing system Ogham, sometimes called the \"tree alphabet\", was legendarily invented by Ogma who wrote a proscription on birch to Lugh, warning him; the text of this proscription can be found in the Book of Ballymote. The first letter of Ogham is \"beith\"; \"beithe\" means \"birch\".\n\nBuddhist manuscripts written in the Gāndhārī language are likely the oldest extant Indic texts, dating to approximately the 1st century CE. The birch bark texts were stored in clay jars and acquired by the British Library in 1994. They were written in Kharoṣṭhī and believed to be originally from Afghanistan due to similar birch bark manuscripts that were discovered in eastern Afghanistan. Since 1994, a similar collection of Gāndhārī texts from the same era, called the Senior collection, has also surfaced.\n\nThe British Library birch bark manuscripts were in the form of scrolls, which were very fragile and already damaged. They were five to nine inches wide, and consisted of twelve to eighteen inch long overlapping rolls that had been glued together to form longer scrolls. A thread sewn through the edges also helped hold them together. The script was written in black ink. The manuscripts were written on both sides of the scrolls, beginning at the top on one side, continuing with the scroll turned over and upside down, so that the text concluded at the top and back of the scroll. The longest intact scroll from the British Library collection is eighty-four inches long.\n\nThe texts were likely compiled by the Dharmaguptaka sect and probably \"represent a random but reasonably representative fraction of what was probably a much larger set of texts preserved in the library of a monastery of the Dharmaguptaka sect in Nagarāhāra\", according to leading scholar Richard Salomon. The collection includes a variety of known commentaries and sutras, including a \"Dhammapada\", discourses of Shakyamuni Buddha that include the \"Rhinoceros Sutra\", avadānas, and abhidharma texts.\n\nThe condition of the scrolls indicates that they were already in poor condition and fragments by the time they were stored in the clay jars. Scholars concluded that the fragmented scrolls were given a ritual interment, much like Jewish texts stored in a genizah.\n\nThe bark of \"Betula utilis\" (Himalayan Birch) has been used for centuries in India for writing scriptures and texts in various scripts. Its use was especially prevalent in historical Kashmir. Use of bark as paper has been mentioned by early Sanskrit writers such as Kalidasa (c. 4th century CE), Sushruta (c. 3rd century CE), and Varahamihira (6th century CE). In Kashmir, early scholars recounted that all of their books were written on Himalayan birch bark until the 16th century.\nA fragment of a birch bark scroll in Sanskrit, in the Brāhmī script, was part of the British Library Gandhara scroll collection. It is presumed to be from North India, dating to sometime during the first few centuries CE. Birch bark manuscripts in Brāhmī script were discovered in an ancient Buddhist monastery in Jaulian, near Taxila in the Punjab in Pakistan, and dated to the 5th century CE.\n\nThe Bakhshali manuscript consists of seventy birch bark fragments written in Sanskrit and Prakrit, in the Śāradā script. Based on the language and content, it is estimated to be from the 2nd to 3rd century CE. The text discusses various mathematical techniques.\n\nA large collection of birch bark scrolls were discovered in Afghanistan during the civil war in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, possibly in the Bamiyan Caves. The approximately 3,000 scroll fragments are in Sanskrit or Buddhist Sanskrit, in the Brāhmī script, and date to a period from the 2nd to 8th century CE.\n\nThe Bower Manuscript is one of the oldest Sanskrit texts on birch bark in the Brāhmī script. It includes several texts covering subjects including a medical treatise and proverbs. It was discovered in Kucha (currently in Aksu Prefecture in Xinjiang, China), an ancient Buddhist kingdom on the northern Silk Road, and is estimated to be from around 450 CE.\n\nThe Gilgit Manuscripts were Buddhist texts discovered in the Gilgit area of Pakistan in 1931 and include various sutras, including the Lotus Sutra, along with folk tales, medicine, and philosophy. They are dated to approximately the 5th to 6th centuries AD, and were written in Buddhist Sanskrit in the Śāradā script.\n\nManuscripts containing the Devīkavaca text, a hymn praising the goddess Durga, were thought to protect the person who carries them from evil influences like an amulet or charm. An example of one of these texts in Devanagari script from Nepal is held at Cambridge University Library (MS Add. 1578).\n\nBirch bark is still used in some parts of India and Nepal for writing sacred mantras. This practice was first mentioned c. 8th or 9th century CE, in the Lakshmi Tantra.\n\nIn Indian sculpture, a Birch bark manuscript is easily identified by the droop. A palm leaf manuscript is stiff.\n\nOn July 26, 1951, during excavations in Novgorod, a Soviet expedition led by Artemiy Artsikhovsky found the first Russian birch bark writing in a layer dated to c. 1400. Since then, more than 1,000 similar documents were discovered in Staraya Russa, Smolensk, Torzhok, Pskov, Tver, Moscow, Ryazan, and Vologda, although Novgorod remains by far the most prolific source of them. In Ukraine, birch bark documents were found in Zvenyhorod, Volynia. In Belarus, several documents were unearthed in Vitebsk and Mstislavl.\nThe late discovery of birch documents, as well as their amazing state of preservation, is explained by a deep culture layer in Novgorod (up to eight meters, or 25 feet) and heavy waterlogged clay soil which prevents the access of oxygen. Serious excavations in Novgorod started only in 1932, although some attempts had been made in the 19th century.\n\nAlthough their existence was mentioned in some old East Slavic manuscripts, the discovery of birch bark documents (, \"berestyanáya grámota\", and also \"grámota\" in those documents) significantly changed the understanding of the cultural level and language spoken by the East Slavs between the 11th and 15th centuries. About a hundred styluses have also been found, mostly made of iron, some of bone or bronze.\n\nAccording to Valentin Yanin and Andrey Zaliznyak, most documents are ordinary letters by various people written in what is considered to be a vernacular dialect. The letters are of a personal or business character. A few documents include elaborate obscenities. Very few documents are written in Old Church Slavonic and only one in Old Norse. The school exercises and drawings by a young boy named Onfim have drawn much attention.\n\nThe document numbered 292 from the Novgorod excavations (unearthed in 1957) is the oldest known document in any Finnic language. It is dated to the beginning of the 13th century. The language used in the document is thought to be an archaic form of the language spoken in Olonets Karelia, a dialect of the Karelian language. For details and full text, see Birch bark letter no. 292.\n\nNovgorod birch-bark letter no. 366, . Case of trampled wheat, release.\n\nOriginal text (with added word division):\n\nсь урѧдѣсѧ ѧковь съ гюргьмо и съ харѣтономъ по бьсудьнои грамотѣ цто былъ возѧлъ гюргѣ грамоту вызьѣжьнои пьшьнѣцѣ а харѣтоно во проторѣхо своѣхъ и возѧ гюрьгѣ за вьсь то рубьль и трѣ грѣвоны и коробью пьшьнѣцѣ а харѣтонъ возѧ дьсѧть локотъ сукона и грѣвону а боль не надобѣ гюрьгю нѣ харѣтону до ѧкова нѣ ѧкову до гюргѧ нѣ до харитона а на то рѧдьцѣ и послусѣ давыдъ лукѣнъ сынъ и сьтьпанъ таишѣнъ\nTransliteration:\n\n\"sĭ urjadesja jakovĭ sŭ gjurgĭmo i sŭ xaretonomŭ po bĭsudĭnoi gramote cto bylŭ vozjalŭ gjurge gramotu vyzĭježnoi pĭšĭnece a xaretono vo protorexo svoexŭ i vozja gjurge za vĭsĭ to rubĭlĭ i tre grevony i korobĭju pĭšĭnece a xaretonŭ vozja dĭsjatĭ lokotŭ sukona i grevonu a bolĭ ne nadobe gjurgju ne xaretonu do jakova ne jakovu do gjurgja ne do xaritona a na ta rjadĭce i posluse davydŭ lukenŭ synŭ i sĭtĭpanŭ taišenŭ\"\nTranslation (with explanations in square brackets):\n\nHere, Yakov has settled with Gyurgi and with Khareton by courtless deed Gyurgi has gotten [at court] concerning trampled [by horses] wheat and Khariton concerning his loss. Gyurgi got one ruble, three grivnas, and a basket of wheat for all that, and Khariton got ten cubits of cloth and one grivna. And Gyurgiy and Khariton have no more concern to Yakov, nor Yakov to Gyurgiy and Khariton. And arrangers and perceivers to that are Davyd, son of Luka, and Stepan Taishen.\nThere are birch bark letters written in modern times, most notably by victims of the Soviet repressions. People in Soviet forced settlements and GULAG camps in Siberia used strips of birch bark to write letters to their loved ones back home, due to inaccessibility of paper. Examples of these letters from Latvian victims of the Soviet regime are currently being considered to be included in the UNESCO \"Memory of the World\" heritage list. During World War II, propaganda newspapers and leaflets published by guerilla fighters were sometimes printed on birch bark due to shortage of paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157627", "title": "Christmas Eve", "text": "Christmas Eve\n\nChristmas Eve is the evening or entire day before Christmas Day, the festival commemorating the birth of Jesus. Christmas Day is observed around the world, and Christmas Eve is widely observed as a full or partial holiday in anticipation of Christmas Day. Together, both days are considered one of the most culturally significant celebrations in Christendom and Western society.\n\nChristmas celebrations in the denominations of Western Christianity have long begun on the night of the 24th, due in part to the Christian liturgical day starting at sunset, a practice inherited from Jewish tradition and based on the story of Creation in the Book of Genesis: \"And there was evening, and there was morning – the first day.\" Many churches still ring their church bells and hold prayers in the evening; for example, the Nordic Lutheran churches. Since tradition holds that Jesus was born at night (based in Luke 2:6-8), Midnight Mass is celebrated on Christmas Eve, traditionally at midnight, in commemoration of his birth. The idea of Jesus being born at night is reflected in the fact that Christmas Eve is referred to as \"Heilige Nacht\" (Holy Night) in German, \"Nochebuena\" (the Good Night) in Spanish and similarly in other expressions of Christmas spirituality, such as the song \"Silent Night, Holy Night\".\n\nMany other varying cultural traditions and experiences are also associated with Christmas Eve around the world, including the gathering of family and friends, the singing of Christmas carols, the illumination and enjoyment of Christmas lights, trees, and other decorations, the wrapping, exchange and opening of gifts, and general preparation for Christmas Day. Legendary Christmas gift-bearing figures including Santa Claus, Father Christmas, Christkind, and Saint Nicholas are also often said to depart for their annual journey to deliver presents to children around the world on Christmas Eve, although until the Protestant introduction of Christkind in 16th-century Europe, such figures were said to instead deliver presents on the eve of Saint Nicholas' feast day (6 December).\n\nRoman Catholics and high church Anglicans traditionally celebrate Midnight Mass, which begins either at or sometime before midnight on Christmas Eve. This ceremony, which is held in churches throughout the world, celebrates the birth of Christ, which is believed to have occurred at night. Midnight Mass is popular in Poland (pasterka).\n\nIn recent years some churches have scheduled their \"Midnight\" Mass as early as 7 pm. In Spanish-speaking areas, the Midnight Mass is sometimes referred to as \"Misa de Gallo\", or \"Missa do Galo\" in Portuguese (\"Rooster's Mass\"). In the Philippines, the custom has expanded into the nine-day \"Simbang Gabi\", when Filipinos attend dawn Masses (traditionally beginning around 04:00 to 05:00 PST) from 16 December, continuing daily until Christmas Eve. In 2009 Vatican officials scheduled the Midnight Mass to start at 10 pm so that the 82-year-old Pope Benedict XVI would not have too late a night.\n\nWhilst it does not include any kind of Mass, the Church of Scotland has a service beginning just before midnight, in which carols are sung. The Church of Scotland no longer holds Hogmanay services on New Year's Eve, however. The Christmas Eve Services are still very popular.\nOn Christmas Eve, the Christ Candle in the center of the Advent wreath is traditionally lit in many church services. In candlelight services, while singing \"Silent Night\", each member of the congregation receives a candle and passes along their flame which is first received from the Christ Candle.\n\nLutherans traditionally practice Christmas Eve Eucharistic traditions typical of Germany and Scandinavia. \"Krippenspiele\" (Nativity plays), special festive music for organ, vocal and brass choirs and candlelight services make Christmas Eve one of the highlights in the Lutheran Church calendar. A nativity scene may be erected indoors or outdoors, and is composed of figurines depicting the infant Jesus resting in a manger, Mary, and Joseph. Other figures in the scene may include angels, shepherds, and various animals. The figures may be made of any material, and arranged in a stable or grotto. The Magi may also appear, and are sometimes not placed in the scene until the week following Christmas to account for their travel time to Bethlehem. While most home nativity scenes are packed away at Christmas or shortly thereafter, nativity scenes in churches usually remain on display until the feast of the Baptism of the Lord.\n\nChristmas Vespers are popular in the early evening, and midnight services are also widespread in regions which are predominantly Lutheran. The old Lutheran tradition of a Christmas Vigil in the early morning hours of Christmas Day (Christmette) can still be found in some regions. In eastern and middle Germany, congregations still continue the tradition of \"Quempas singing\": separate groups dispersed in various parts of the church sing verses of the song \"He whom shepherds once came Praising\" (\"Quem pastores laudavere\") responsively.\n\nMethodists celebrate the evening in different ways. Some, in the early evening, come to their church to celebrate Holy Communion with their families. The mood is very solemn, and the only visible light is the Advent Wreath, and the candles upon the Lord's Table. Others celebrate the evening with services of light, which include singing the song \"Silent Night\" as a variety of candles (including personal candles) are lit. Other churches have late evening services perhaps at 11 pm, so that the church can celebrate Christmas Day together with the ringing of bells at midnight. Others offer Christmas Day services as well.\n\nThe annual \"Nine Lessons and Carols\", broadcast from King's College, Cambridge on Christmas Eve, has established itself a Christmas custom in the United Kingdom. It is broadcast outside the UK via the BBC World Service, and is also bought by broadcasters around the world.\n\nIn the Byzantine Rite, Christmas Eve is referred to as Paramony (\"preparation\"). It is the concluding day of the Nativity Fast and is observed as a day of strict fasting by those devout Byzantine Christians who are physically capable of doing so. In some traditions, nothing is eaten until the first star appears in the evening sky, in commemoration of the Star of Bethlehem. The liturgical celebration begins earlier in the day with the celebration of the Royal Hours, followed by the Divine Liturgy combined with the celebration of Vespers, during which a large number of passages from the Old Testament are chanted, recounting the history of salvation. After the dismissal at the end of the service, a new candle is brought out into the center of the church and lit, and all gather round and sing the Troparion and Kontakion of the Feast.\n\nIn the evening, the All-Night Vigil for the Feast of the Nativity is composed of Great Compline, Matins and the First Hour. The Byzantine services of Christmas Eve are intentionally parallel to those of Good Friday, illustrating the theological point that the purpose of the Incarnation was to make possible the Crucifixion and Resurrection. This is illustrated in Eastern icons of the Nativity, on which the Christ Child is wrapped in swaddling clothes reminiscent of his burial wrappings. The child is also shown lying on a stone, representing the Tomb of Christ, rather than a manger. The Cave of the Nativity is also a reminder of the cave in which Jesus was buried.\n\nThe services of Christmas Eve are also similar to those of the Eve of Theophany (Epiphany), and the two Great Feasts are considered one celebration.\n\nIn some Orthodox cultures, after the Vesperal Liturgy the family returns home to a festive meal, but one at which Orthodox fasting rules are still observed: no meat or dairy products (milk, cheese, eggs, etc.) are consumed (see below for variations according to nationality). Then they return to the church for the All-Night Vigil.\n\nThe next morning, Christmas Day, the Divine Liturgy is celebrated again, but with special features that occur only on Great Feasts of the Lord. After the dismissal of this Liturgy, the faithful customarily greet each other with the kiss of peace and the words: \"Christ is Born!\", to which the one being greeted responds: \"Glorify Him!\" (these are the opening words of the Canon of the Nativity that was chanted the night before during the Vigil). This greeting, together with many of the hymns of the feast, continue to be used until the leave-taking of the feast on 29 December.\n\nThe first three days of the feast are particularly solemn. The second day is known as the Synaxis of the Theotokos, and commemorates the role of the Virgin Mary in the Nativity of Jesus. The third day is referred to simply as \"the Third Day of the Nativity\". The Saturday and Sunday following 25 December have special Epistle and Gospel readings assigned to them. 29 December celebrates the Holy Innocents.\n\nByzantine Christians observe a festal period of twelve days, during which no one in the Church fasts, even on Wednesdays and Fridays, which are normal fasting days throughout the rest of the year. During this time one feast leads into another: 25–31 December is the afterfeast of the Nativity; 2–5 January is the forefeast of the Epiphany.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the meal consists of an odd number of lenten dishes in compliance with the rules of fasting. They are usually the traditional sarma, bob chorba (bean soup), fortune kravai (pastry with a fortune in it; also called \"bogovitsa\", \"vechernik\", \"kolednik\"), stuffed peppers, nuts, dried fruit, boiled wheat. The meal is often accompanied with wine or Bulgaria's traditional alcoholic beverage rakia, in the past - \"olovina\" (a type of homemade rye beer). The meals used to be put on top of hay, directly on the floor, together with a ploughshare or a coulter.\n\nIn French-speaking places, Réveillon is a long dinner eaten on Christmas Eve.\n\nWhile other Christian families throughout the world celebrate the Christmas Eve meal with various meats, Italians (especially Sicilians) celebrate the traditional Catholic \"Feast of the Seven Fishes\" which was historically served after a 24-hour fasting period. Although Christmas fasting is no longer a popular custom, some Italian-Americans still enjoy a meatless Christmas Eve feast and attend the Midnight Mass. In various cultures, a festive dinner is traditionally served for the family and close friends in attendance, when the first star (usually Sirius) arrives on the sky.\n\nA similar tradition (\"Wigilia\", or 'Christmas Vigil') exists in Poland. The number of dishes used to be traditionally an odd number (usually 5, 7, 9, or 11.) According to the Słownik etymologiczny języka polskiego (Etymological Dictionary of the Polish Language) by Aleksander Brückner, the number of dishes was traditionally related to social class: the peasants' vigil consisted of 5 or 7 dishes, the gentry usually had 9, and the aristocracy, 11 dishes, but the even number 12 is also found today to remember the 12 disciples. It is obligatory to try a portion of all of them. Some traditions specify that the number of guests cannot be odd.\n\nIn Poland, gifts are unwrapped on the Christmas Eve, as opposed to the Christmas Day.\n\nIn Russia, Ukraine, and Lithuania, a traditional meatless 12-dishes Christmas Eve Supper is served on Christmas Eve before opening gifts. This is known as the \"Holy Meal\" (Kūčios in Lithuania). The table is spread with a white cloth symbolic of the swaddling clothes the Child Jesus was wrapped in, and a large white candle stands in the center of the table symbolizing Christ the Light of the World. Next to it is a round loaf of bread symbolizing Christ Bread of Life. Hay is often displayed either on the table or as a decoration in the room, reminiscent of the manger in Bethlehem. The twelve dishes (which differ by nationality or region) symbolize the Twelve Apostles.\n\nThe Holy Meal was a common Eastern Orthodox tradition in the Russian Empire, but during the era of the Soviet Union it was greatly discouraged as a result of the official atheism of the former regime. It is coming back in Russia and continues to be popular in Ukraine.\n\nThe main attributes of Holy Meal in Ukraine are kutia, a poppy seed, honey and wheat dish, and uzvar, a drink made from reconstituted dried fruits. Other typical dishes are borscht, Varenyky, and dishes made of fish, phaseolus and cabbage.\n\nIn accordance with the Christmas traditions of the Serbs, their festive meal has a copious and diverse selection of foods, although it is prepared according to the rules of fasting.\n\nAs well as a round, unleavened loaf of bread and salt, which are necessary, this meal may comprise roast fish, cooked beans, sauerkraut, noodles with ground walnuts, honey, and wine.\n\nFamilies in some Slavic countries leave an empty place at the table for guests (alluding to Mary and Joseph looking for shelter in Bethlehem).\n\nDuring the Reformation in 16th- and 17th-century Europe, many Protestants changed the gift bringer to the Christ Child or \"Christkindl\", and the date of giving gifts changed from 6 December to Christmas Eve. It is the night when Santa Claus makes his rounds delivering gifts to good children. Many trace the custom of giving gifts to the Magi who brought gifts for the Christ child in the manger.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia and Hungary, where Saint Nicholas (sv. Mikuláš/szent Mikulás) gives his sweet gifts on 6 December, the Christmas gift-giver is the Child Jesus (Ježíšek in Czech, Jézuska in Hungarian, Ježiško in Slovak and Isusek in Croatian).\n\nIn most parts of Austria, Germany, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic and Switzerland, presents are traditionally exchanged on the evening of 24 December. Children are commonly told that presents were brought either by the Christkind (German for Christ child), or by the Weihnachtsmann. Both leave the gifts, but are in most families not seen doing so. In Germany, the gifts are also brought on 6 December by \"the Nikolaus\" with his helper Knecht Ruprecht.\n\nIn Estonia \"Jõuluvana\", in Finland \"Joulupukki\", in Norway \"Julenissen\" and in Sweden \"Jultomten\", personally meets children and gives presents in the evening of Christmas Eve.\n\nIn Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Denmark, Estonia, the Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Quebec, Romania, Uruguay, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland and the Czech Republic, Christmas presents are opened mostly on the evening of the 24th – following German tradition, this is also the practice among the British Royal Family since it was introduced by Queen Victoria and Albert, Prince Consort – while in Italy, the United States, the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, English Canada, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia, this occurs mostly on the morning of Christmas Day.\n\nIn other Latin American countries, people stay awake until midnight, when they open the presents.\n\nIn Spain, gifts are traditionally opened on the morning of 6 January, Epiphany day (\"Día de Los Tres Reyes Magos\"), though in some other countries, like Argentina and Uruguay, people receive presents both around Christmas and on the morning of Epiphany day.\n\nIn Belgium and the Netherlands Saint Nicholas or Sinterklaas and his companion Zwarte Piet deliver presents to children and adults alike on the evening of 5 December, the eve of his nameday. On 24 December they go to church or watch the late-night mass on TV, or have a meal.\n\nChristmas Eve is celebrated in different ways around the world, varying by country and region. Elements common to many areas of the world include the attendance of special religious observances such as a midnight Mass or Vespers, and the giving and receiving of presents. Along with Easter, Christmastime is one of the most important periods on the Christian calendar, and is often closely connected to other holidays at this time of year, such as Advent, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, St. Nicholas Day, St. Stephen's Day, New Year's, and the Feast of the Epiphany.\n\nAmong Christians, as well as non-Christians who celebrate Christmas, the significant amount of vacation travel, and travel back to family homes, that takes place in the lead-up to Christmas means that Christmas Eve is also frequently a time of social events and parties, worldwide.\n\nNittel Nacht is a name given to Christmas Eve by Jewish scholars in the 17th century.\n\nWith Christmas Day a work holiday throughout the United States, there is a space of unfilled free time during which much of American commerce and society is not functioning, and which can give rise to a sense of loneliness or alienation for American Jews.\n\nJews also typically do not engage in the family gathering and religious worship activities that are central to Christmas Eve for Christians.\n\nTypical contemporary activities have usually been limited to \"Chinese and a movie\"—consuming a meal at a Chinese restaurant, which tend to be open for business on the Christmas holiday, and watching a movie at the theater or at home, stereotypically a rerun of \"It's a Wonderful Life\".\n\nSince the 1980s a variety of social events for young Jews have sprung up, and become popular, on Christmas Eve. These include the Matzo Ball, The Ball, and a number of local events organized by Jewish communities and local Jewish Federations in North America.\n\nA number of historical events have been influenced by the occurrence of Christmas Eve.\n\nDuring World War I in 1914 and 1915 there was an unofficial Christmas truce, particularly between British and German troops. The truce began on Christmas Eve, 24 December 1914, when German troops began decorating the area around their trenches in the region of Ypres, Belgium, for Christmas. They began by placing candles on trees, then continued the celebration by singing Christmas carols, most notably \"Stille Nacht\" (\"Silent Night\"). The British troops in the trenches across from them responded by singing English carols. The two sides shouted Christmas greetings to each other. Soon there were calls for visits across the \"No man's land\" when small gifts were exchanged. The truce also allowed a breathing space during which recently killed soldiers could be brought back behind their lines by burial parties. Funerals took place as soldiers from both sides mourned the dead together and paid their respects. At one funeral in No Man's Land, soldiers from both sides gathered and read a passage from Psalm 23. The truce occurred in spite of opposition at higher levels of the military command. Earlier in the autumn, a call by Pope Benedict XV for an official truce between the warring governments had been ignored.\nOn 24 December 1968, in what was the most watched television broadcast to that date, the astronauts Bill Anders, Jim Lovell and Frank Borman of Apollo 8 surprised the world with a reading of the Creation from the Book of Genesis as they orbited the moon. Madalyn Murray O'Hair, an atheist activist, filed a lawsuit under the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. The trial court dismissed the lawsuit, which was upheld on appeal.\n\nIn 1969, the United States Postal Service issued a stamp (Scott# 1371) commemorating the Apollo 8 flight around the moon. The stamp featured a detail of the famous photograph, \"Earthrise\", of the Earth \"rising\" over the moon (NASA image AS8-14-2383HR), taken by Anders on Christmas Eve, and the words, \"In the beginning God...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22072757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22072757", "title": "Cinema of Obsession", "text": "Cinema of Obsession\n\nCinema of Obsession: Erotic Fixation and Love Gone Wrong in the Movies by Dominique Mainon and James Ursini is a non-fiction book documenting the history of obsessive love, amour fou and erotic fixation in cinema.\n\nIt begins with an overview of \"mad love\" in literature and myth, then moves quickly into an in-depth overview of the theme in modern cinema. From its origins in the myths of Ovid such as Pygmalion-Galatea, Psyche and Cupid, and Narcissus to medieval tales of tragic love triangles like that of Arthur-Guenivere-Lancelot and Mark-Isolde-Tristan and on to the Romantic tales of the Brontes and twentieth-century works of writers of erotica like Lawrence and Anaïs Nin, this theme has become emblematic in cinema today.\n\nThe book features seminal works in obsession themes like Buñuel's \"Un Chien Andalou\", Dietrich's \"The Blue Angel\", \"Peter Ibbetson\", \"The Phantom of the Opera\", Renoir's \"La Bête Humaine\", and \"Of Human Bondage\", which set the groundwork for films to follow. It also defines and examples of the explosive nature of obsessive love with adaptations of legendary films such as \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"Duel in the Sun\", \"Wuthering Heights\", \"Carmen\", \"Last Tango in Paris\", \"Bette Blue\", \"Sid and Nancy\", \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\", and the more recent films of Wong Kar Wai and Almodovar.\n\nThe book's theme encompasses issues of attempted male control over the object of his obsession, which is highlighted in films like Franju's \"Eyes without a Face\", Hitchcock's \"Vertigo\" and \"Marnie\", \"Basic Instinct\", Visconti's \"Death in Venice\", Fellini's \"The Temptation of Doctor Anthony\". Male masochism, a key element in many of the films, especially film noirs like \"Criss Cross, The Killers, Gilda, The Postman Always Rings Twice\", and more modern explorations like \"Lolita\" and Cronenberg's \"M. Butterfly\", earns its own chapter.\n\nThe fugitive couple, love on the run, another noir theme, is also studied centering on films like \"Gun Crazy\", Truffaut's \"Mississippi Mermaid\" and its recent remake with Angelina Jolie \"Original Sin, Moulin Rouge\", and Lynch's \"Wild at Heart\". The book shifts gears in its finale and concentrates on the female gaze, films of female obsession: e.g., \"Jane Eyre, Lady Chatterley's Lover, The Piano, The Story of Adele H., The Lover, Fatal Attraction, Vanilla Sky\", to name but a few. \nFrom the same authors of \"\", this book also contains a filmography of over one hundred films including hundreds of illustrations and a complete bibliography.\n\n"}
{"id": "4642057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4642057", "title": "Cognitive style", "text": "Cognitive style\n\nCognitive style or \"thinking style\" is a concept used in cognitive psychology to describe the way individuals think, perceive and remember information. Cognitive style differs from cognitive ability (or level), the latter being measured by aptitude tests or so-called intelligence tests. There is controversy over the exact meaning of the term \"cognitive style\" and whether it is a single or multiple dimension of human personality. However it remains a key concept in the areas of education and management. If a pupil has a cognitive style that is similar to that of his/her teacher, the chances are improved that the pupil will have a more positive learning experience. Likewise, team members with similar cognitive styles likely feel more positive about their participation with the team. While matching cognitive styles may make participants feel more comfortable when working with one another, this alone cannot guarantee the success of the outcome.\n\nA popular multi-dimensional instrument for the measure of cognitive style is the Myers–Briggs Type Indicator.\n\nRiding (1991) developed a two-dimensional cognitive style instrument, his Cognitive Style Analysis (CSA), which is a compiled computer-presented test that measures individuals' position on two orthogonal dimensions – Wholist-Analytic (W-A) and Verbal-Imagery (V-I). The W-A dimension reflects how individuals organise and structure information. Individuals described as Analytics will deconstruct information into its component parts, whereas individuals described as Wholists will retain a global or overall view of information. The V-I dimension describes individuals' mode of information representation in memory during thinking – Verbalisers represent information in words or verbal associations, and Imagers represent information in mental pictures. The CSA test is broken down into three sub-tests, all of which are based on a comparison between response times to different types of stimulus items. Some scholars argue that this instrument, being at least in part reliant on the ability of the respondent to answer at speed, really measures a mix of cognitive style and cognitive ability (Kirton, 2003). This is said to contribute to the unreliability of this instrument.\n\nThe field dependence-independence model, invented by Herman Witkin, identifies an individual's perceptive behaviour while distinguishing object figures from the content field in which they are set. Two similar instruments to do this were produced, the Embedded Figures Test (EFT) and the Group Embedded Figures Test (GEFT) (1971). In both cases, the content field is a distracting or confusing background. These instruments are designed to distinguish field-independent from field-dependent cognitive types; a rating which is claimed to be value-neutral. Field-independent people tend to be more autonomous when it comes to the development of restructuring skills; that is, those skills required during technical tasks with which the individual is not necessarily familiar. They are, however, less autonomous in the development of interpersonal skills. The EFT and GEFT continue to enjoy support and usage in research and practice. However, they, too, are criticised by scholars as containing an element of ability and so may not measure cognitive style alone.\n\nLiam Hudson (Carey, 1991) identified two cognitive styles: convergent thinkers, good at accumulating material from a variety of sources relevant to a problem's solution, and divergent thinkers who proceed more creatively and subjectively in their approach to problem-solving. Hudson's Converger-diverger construct attempts to measure the processing rather than the acquisition of information by an individual. It aims to differentiate convergent from divergent thinkers; the former being persons who think rationally and logically while the latter tend to be more flexible and to base reasoning more on heuristic evidence.\n\nIn contrast, cognitive complexity theories as proposed by James Bieri (1961) attempt to identify individuals who are more complex in their approach to problem-solving against those who are simpler. The instruments used to measure this concept of \"cognitive style\" are either Driver's Decision Style Exercise (DDSE) (Carey, 1991) or the Complexity Self-Test Description Instrument, which are somewhat ad hoc and so are little used at present.\n\nGordon Pask (Carey, 1991) extended these notions in a discussion of strategies and styles of learning. In this, he classifies learning strategies as either holist or serialist. When confronted with an unfamiliar type of problem, holists gather information randomly within a framework, while serialists approach problem-solving step-wise, proceeding from the known to the unknown.\n\nRobert Ornstein's Hemispherical lateralisation concept (Carey, 1991), commonly called left-brain/right-brain theory, posits that the left hemisphere of the brain controls logical and analytical operations while the right hemisphere controls holistic, intuitive and pictorial activities. Cognitive style is thus claimed to be a single dimension on a scale from extreme left-brain to extreme right-brain types, depending on which associated behaviour dominates in the individual, and by how much.\n\nTaggart's (1988) \"Whole-brain human information processing theory\" classifies the brain as having six divisions, three per hemisphere, which in a sense is a refined model of the hemispherical lateralisation theory discussed above.\n\nThe Allinson-Hayes (1996) Cognitive Style Index (CSI) has features of Ornstein's left-brain/right-brain theory. Recent evidence suggests that it may be the most widely used measure of cognitive style in academic research in the fields of management and education (Cools, Armstrong and Verbrigghe, 2014; Evans, Cools and Charlesworth, 2010). The CSI contains 38 items, each rated using a 3-point scale (true; uncertain; false). Certain scholars have questioned its construct validity on the grounds of theoretical and methodological approaches associated with its development. Allinson and Hayes (2012), however, have refuted these claims on the basis of other independent studies of its psychometric properties. Research has indicated both gender and cultural differences in CSI scores. While this may complicate some management and educational applications, previous investigations have suggested it is entirely plausible that cognitive style is related to these social factors.\n\nAnother popular model of cognitive style was devised by Michael Kirton (1976, 2003). His model, called Adaption-Innovation theory, claims that an individual's preferred approach to problem solving, can be placed on a continuum ranging from high adaptation to high innovation. He suggests that some human beings, called adaptors tend to prefer the adaptive approach to problem-solving, while others (innovators), of course, prefer the reverse. Adaptors use what is given to solve problems by time-honoured techniques. Alternatively, innovators look beyond what is given to solve problems with the aid of innovative technologies. Kirton suggests that while adaptors prefer to do well within a given paradigm, innovators would rather do differently, thereby striving to transcend existing paradigms.\n\nKirton also invented an instrument to measure cognitive style (at least in accordance with this model) known as the Kirton Adaption-innovation Inventory (KAI). This requires the respondent to rate themselves against thirty-two personality traits. A drawback of all the other efforts to measure cognitive style discussed above is their failure to separate out cognitive style and cognitive level. As the items on the KAI are expressed in clear and simple language, cognitive level plays no significant role. Scores on the A-I continuum are normally distributed between the extreme cognitive styles of high innovation and high adaptation.\n\nAnother important concept associated with A-I theory is that of bridging in teams. Kirton (2003) defines bridging as \"reaching out to people in the team and helping them be part of it so that they may contribute even if their contribution is outside the mainstream\". Bridging is thus a task and a role, which has to be learnt. It is not a cognitive style. Bridging is also not leading, although the skilled leader may make use of persons they recognise as good bridgers to maintain group cohesion. Group cohesion means, to keep the group aware of the importance of its members working well together. Kirton (2003) suggests that it is easier for a person to learn and assume a bridging role if their cognitive style is an intermediate one. If person B assumes a bridging role which assists persons A and C to work well together in a team, then B's KAI score is recommended to be between those of A and C. Of course, it is only recommended that B's score lies between the scores of A and C, not that B's score lies near the KAI mean. All of A, B and C could be high-scoring innovators or, for that matter, high-scoring adaptors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18938195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18938195", "title": "Collage", "text": "Collage\n\nCollage (from the , \"to glue\"; ) is a technique of an art production, primarily used in the visual arts, where the artwork is made from an assemblage of different forms, thus creating a new whole.\n\nA collage may sometimes include magazine and newspaper clippings, ribbons, paint, bits of colored or handmade papers, portions of other artwork or texts, photographs and other found objects, glued to a piece of paper or canvas. The origins of collage can be traced back hundreds of years, but this technique made a dramatic reappearance in the early 20th century as an art form of novelty.\n\nThe term \"collage\" was coined by both Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso in the beginning of the 20th century when collage became a distinctive part of modern art.\n\nTechniques of collage were first used at the time of the invention of paper in China, around 200 BC. The use of collage, however, wasn't used by many people until the 10th century in Japan, when calligraphers began to apply glued paper, using texts on surfaces, when writing their poems. The technique of collage appeared in medieval Europe during the 13th century. Gold leaf panels started to be applied in Gothic cathedrals around the 15th and 16th centuries. Gemstones and other precious metals were applied to religious images, icons, and also, to coats of arms. An 18th-century example of collage art can be found in the work of Mary Delany. In the 19th century, collage methods also were used among hobbyists for memorabilia (e.g. applied to photo albums) and books (e.g. Hans Christian Andersen, Carl Spitzweg).\nMany institutions have attributed the beginnings of the practice of collage to Picasso and Braque in 1912, however, early Victorian photocollage suggest collage techniques were practiced in the early 1860s. Many institutions recognize these works as memorabilia for hobbyists, though they functioned as a facilitator of Victorian aristocratic collective portraiture, proof of female erudition, and presented a new mode of artistic representation that questioned the way in which photography is truthful. In 2009, curator Elizabeth Siegel organized the exhibition: \"Playing with Pictures\" at the Art Institute Chicago to acknowledge collage works by Alexandra of Denmark and Mary Georgina Filmer among others. The exhibition later traveled to The Metropolitan Museum of Art and The Art Gallery of Ontario.\n\nDespite the pre-twentieth-century use of collage-like application techniques, some art authorities argue that collage, properly speaking, did not emerge until after 1900, in conjunction with the early stages of modernism.\n\nFor example, the Tate Gallery's online art glossary states that collage \"was first used as an artists' technique in the twentieth century.\". According to the Guggenheim Museum's online art glossary, collage is an artistic concept associated with the beginnings of modernism, and entails much more than the idea of gluing something onto something else. The glued-on patches which Braque and Picasso added to their canvases offered a new perspective on painting when the patches \"collided with the surface plane of the painting.\" In this perspective, collage was part of a methodical reexamination of the relation between painting and sculpture, and these new works \"gave each medium some of the characteristics of the other,\" according to the Guggenheim essay. Furthermore, these chopped-up bits of newspaper introduced fragments of externally referenced meaning into the collision: \"References to current events, such as the war in the Balkans, and to popular culture enriched the content of their art.\" This juxtaposition of signifiers, \"at once serious and tongue-in-cheek,\" was fundamental to the inspiration behind collage: \"Emphasizing concept and process over end product, collage has brought the incongruous into meaningful congress with the ordinary.\"\n\nCollage in the modernist sense began with Cubist painters Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. According to some sources, Picasso was the first to use the collage technique in oil paintings. According to the Guggenheim Museum's online article about collage, Braque took up the concept of collage itself before Picasso, applying it to charcoal drawings. Picasso adopted collage immediately after (and could be the first to use collage in paintings, as opposed to drawings):\n\n\"It was Braque who purchased a roll of simulated oak-grain wallpaper and began cutting out pieces of the paper and attaching them to his charcoal drawings. Picasso immediately began to make his own experiments in the new medium.\"\n\nIn 1912 for his \"Still Life with Chair Caning (Nature-morte à la chaise cannée)\", Picasso pasted a patch of oilcloth with a chair-cane design onto the canvas of the piece.\n\nSurrealist artists have made extensive use of collage. Cubomania is a collage made by cutting an image into squares which are then reassembled automatically or at random. Collages produced using a similar, or perhaps identical, method are called \"etrécissements\" by Marcel Mariën from a method first explored by Mariën. Surrealist games such as \"parallel collage\" use collective techniques of collage making.\n\nThe Sidney Janis Gallery held an early Pop Art exhibit called the \"New Realist Exhibition\" in November 1962, which included works by the American artists Tom Wesselmann, Jim Dine, Robert Indiana, Roy Lichtenstein, Claes Oldenburg, James Rosenquist, George Segal, and Andy Warhol; and Europeans such as Arman, Baj, Christo, Yves Klein, Festa, Rotella, Jean Tinguely, and Schifano. It followed the Nouveau Réalisme exhibition at the Galerie Rive Droite in Paris, and marked the international debut of the artists who soon gave rise to what came to be called Pop Art in Britain and The United States and Nouveau Réalisme on the European continent. Many of these artists used collage techniques in their work.\nWesselmann took part in the \"New Realist\" show with some reservations, exhibiting two 1962 works: \"Still life #17\" and \"Still life #22\".\n\nAnother technique is that of \"canvas collage,\" which is the application, typically with glue, of separately painted canvas patches to the surface of a painting's main canvas. Well known for use of this technique is British artist John Walker in his paintings of the late 1970s, but canvas collage was already an integral part of the mixed media works of such American artists as Conrad Marca-Relli and Jane Frank by the early 1960s. The intensely self-critical Lee Krasner also frequently destroyed her own paintings by cutting them into pieces, only to create new works of art by reassembling the pieces into collages.\n\n The wood collage is a type that emerged somewhat later than paper collage. Kurt Schwitters began experimenting with wood collages in the 1920s after already having given up painting for paper collages. The principle of wood collage is clearly established at least as early as his 'Merz Picture with Candle', dating from the mid to late 1920s.\n\nIn a sense, wood collage made its debut indirectly at the same time as paper collage, since according to the Guggenheim online, Georges Braque initiated use of paper collage by cutting out pieces of simulated oak-grain wallpaper and attaching them to his own charcoal drawings. Thus, the idea of gluing wood to a picture was implicit from the start, since the paper used was a commercial product manufactured to look like wood.\n\nIt was during a fifteen-year period of intense experimentation beginning in the mid-1940s that Louise Nevelson evolved her sculptural wood collages, assembled from found scraps, including parts of furniture, pieces of wooden crates or barrels, and architectural remnants like stair railings or moldings. Generally rectangular, very large, and painted black, they resemble gigantic paintings. Concerning Nevelson's \"Sky Cathedral\" (1958), the Museum of Modern Art catalogue states, \"As a rectangular plane to be viewed from the front, \"Sky Cathedral\" has the pictorial quality of a painting...\" Yet such pieces also present themselves as massive walls or monoliths, which can sometimes be viewed from either side, or even looked \"through\".\n\nMuch wood collage art is considerably smaller in scale, framed and hung as a painting would be. It usually features pieces of wood, wood shavings, or scraps, assembled on a canvas (if there is painting involved), or on a wooden board. Such framed, picture-like, wood-relief collages offer the artist an opportunity to explore the qualities of depth, natural color, and textural variety inherent in the material, while drawing on and taking advantage of the language, conventions, and historical resonances that arise from the tradition of creating pictures to hang on walls. The technique of wood collage is also sometimes combined with painting and other media in a single work of art.\n\nFrequently, what is called \"wood collage art\" uses only natural wood - such as driftwood, or parts of found and unaltered logs, branches, sticks, or bark. This raises the question of whether such artwork is collage (in the original sense) at all (see Collage and modernism). This is because the early, paper collages were generally made from bits of text or pictures - things originally made by people, and functioning or signifying in some cultural context. The collage brings these still-recognizable \"signifiers\" (or fragments of signifiers) together, in a kind of semiotic collision. A truncated wooden chair or staircase newel used in a Nevelson work can also be considered a potential element of collage in the same sense: it had some original, culturally determined context. Unaltered, natural wood, such as one might find on a forest floor, arguably has no such context; therefore, the characteristic contextual disruptions associated with the collage idea, as it originated with Braque and Picasso, cannot really take place. (Driftwood is of course sometimes ambiguous: while a piece of driftwood may once have been a piece of worked wood - for example, part of a ship - it may be so weathered by salt and sea that its past functional identity is nearly or completely obscured.)\n\nDecoupage is a type of collage usually defined as a craft. It is the process of placing a picture into an object for decoration. Decoupage can involve adding multiple copies of the same image, cut and layered to add apparent depth. The picture is often coated with varnish or some other sealant for protection.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, decoupage, like many other art methods, began experimenting with a less realistic and more abstract style. 20th-century artists who produced decoupage works include Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. The most famous decoupage work is Matisse's Blue Nude II.\n\nThere are many varieties on the traditional technique involving purpose made 'glue' requiring fewer layers (often 5 or 20, depending on the amount of paper involved). Cutouts are also applied under glass or raised to give a three-dimensional appearance according to the desire of the decouper. Currently decoupage is a popular handicraft.\n\nThe craft became known as découpage in France (from the verb \"découper\", 'to cut out') as it attained great popularity during the 17th and 18th centuries. Many advanced techniques were developed during this time, and items could take up to a year to complete due to the many coats and sandings applied. Some famous or aristocratic practitioners included Marie Antoinette, Madame de Pompadour, and Beau Brummell. In fact the majority of decoupage enthusiasts attribute the beginning of decoupage to 17th century Venice. However it was known before this time in Asia.\n\nThe most likely origin of decoupage is thought to be East Siberian funerary art. Nomadic tribes would use cut out felts to decorate the tombs of their deceased. From Siberia, the practice came to China, and by the 12th century, cut out paper was being used to decorate lanterns, windows, boxes and other objects. In the 17th century, Italy, especially in Venice, was at the forefront of trade with the Far East and it is generally thought that it is through these trade links that the cut out paper decorations made their way into Europe.\n\nCollage made from photographs, or parts of photographs, is called photomontage. Photomontage is the process (and result) of making a composite photograph by cutting and joining a number of other photographs. The composite picture was sometimes photographed so that the final image is converted back into a seamless photographic print. The same method is accomplished today using image-editing software. The technique is referred to by professionals as \"compositing\".\n\"Just what is it that makes today's homes so different, so appealing?\" was created in 1956 for the catalogue of the \"This Is Tomorrow\" exhibition in London, England in which it was reproduced in black and white. In addition, the piece was used in posters for the exhibit. Richard Hamilton has subsequently created several works in which he reworked the subject and composition of the pop art collage, including a 1992 version featuring a female bodybuilder. Many artists have created derivative works of Hamilton's collage. P. C. Helm made a year 2000 interpretation.\n\nOther methods for combining pictures are also called photomontage, such as Victorian \"combination printing\", the printing from more than one negative on a single piece of printing paper (e.g. O. G. Rejlander, 1857), front-projection and computer montage techniques. Much as a collage is composed of multiple facets, artists also combine montage techniques. Romare Bearden’s (1912–1988) series of black and white \"photomontage projections\" is an example. His method began with compositions of paper, paint, and photographs put on boards 8½ × 11 inches. Bearden fixed the imagery with an emulsion that he then applied with handroller. Subsequently, he enlarged the collages photographically.\n\nThe 19th century tradition of physically joining multiple images into a composite and photographing the results prevailed in press photography and offset lithography until the widespread use of digital image editing. Contemporary photo editors in magazines now create \"paste-ups\" digitally.\n\nCreating a photomontage has, for the most part, become easier with the advent of computer software such as Adobe Photoshop, Pixel image editor, and GIMP. These programs make the changes digitally, allowing for faster workflow and more precise results. They also mitigate mistakes by allowing the artist to \"undo\" errors. Yet some artists are pushing the boundaries of digital image editing to create extremely time-intensive compositions that rival the demands of the traditional arts. The current trend is to create pictures that combine painting, theatre, illustration and graphics in a seamless photographic whole.\n\nDigital collage is the technique of using computer tools in collage creation to encourage chance associations of disparate visual elements and the subsequent transformation of the visual results through the use of electronic media. It is commonly used in the creation of digital art.\n\nA 3D collage is the art of putting altogether three-dimensional objects such as rocks, beads, buttons, coins, or even soil to form a new whole or a new object. Examples can include houses, bead circles, etc.\n\nIt is the art of putting together or assembling of small pieces of paper, tiles, marble, stones, etc. They are often found in cathedrals, churches, temples as a spiritual significance of interior design.Small pieces, normally roughly quadratic, of stone or glass of different colors, known as tesserae, (diminutive tessellae), are used to create a pattern or picture.\n\nThe term \"eCollage\" (electronic Collage) can be used for a collage created by using computer tools.\n\nThough Le Corbusier and other architects used techniques that are akin to collage, collage as a theoretical concept only became widely discussed after the publication of \"Collage City\" (1978) by Colin Rowe and Fred Koetter.\n\nRowe and Koetter were not, however, championing collage in the pictorial sense, much less seeking the types of disruptions of meaning that occur with collage. Instead, they were looking to challenge the uniformity of Modernism and saw collage with its non-linear notion of history as a means to reinvigorate design practice. Not only does historical urban fabric have its place, but in studying it, designers were, so it was hoped, able to get a sense of how better to operate. Rowe was a member of the so-called Texas Rangers, a group of architects who taught at the University of Texas for a while. Another member of that group was Bernhard Hoesli, a Swiss architect who went on to become an important educator at the ETH-Zurirch. Whereas for Rowe, collage was more a metaphor than an actual practice, Hoesli actively made collages as part of his design process. He was close to Robert Slutzky, a New York-based artist, and frequently introduced the question of collage and disruption in his studio work.\n\nThe concept of collage has crossed the boundaries of visual arts. In music, with the advances on recording technology, avant-garde artists started experimenting with cutting and pasting since the middle of the twentieth century.\n\nIn the 1960s, George Martin created collages of recordings while producing the records of The Beatles. In 1967 pop artist Peter Blake made the collage for the cover of the Beatles seminal album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". In the 1970s and 1980s, the likes of Christian Marclay and the group Negativland reappropriated old audio in new ways. By the 1990s and 2000s, with the popularity of the sampler, it became apparent that \"musical collages\" had become the norm for popular music, especially in rap, hip-hop and electronic music. In 1996, DJ Shadow released the groundbreaking album, \"Endtroducing...\", made entirely of preexisting recorded material mixed together in audible collage. In the same year, New York City based artist, writer, and musician, Paul D. Miller aka DJ Spooky's work pushed the work of sampling into a museum and gallery context as an art practice that combined DJ culture's obsession with archival materials as sound sources on his album \"Songs of a Dead Dreamer\" and in his books \"Rhythm Science\" (2004) and \"Sound Unbound\" (2008) (MIT Press). In his books, \"mash-up\" and collage based mixes of authors, artists, and musicians such as Antonin Artaud, James Joyce, William S. Burroughs, and Raymond Scott were featured as part of a what he called \"literature of sound.\" In 2000, The Avalanches released \"Since I Left You\", a musical collage consisting of approximately 3,500 musical sources (i.e., samples).\n\nCollage is commonly used as a technique in Children's picture book illustration. Eric Carle is a prominent example, using vividly colored hand-textured papers cut to shape and layered together, sometimes embellished with crayon or other marks. See image at The Very Hungry Caterpillar.\n\nCollage is sometimes used alone or in combination with other techniques in artists' books, especially in one-off unique books rather than as reproduced images in published books.\n\nCollage novels are books with images selected from other publications and collaged together following a theme or narrative.\n\nThe bible of discordianism, the \"Principia Discordia\", is described by its author as a literary collage. A collage in literary terms may also refer to a layering of ideas or images.\n\nCollage is utilized in fashion design in the sketching process, as part of mixed media illustrations, where drawings together with diverse materials such as paper, photographs, yarns or fabric bring ideas into designs.\n\nCollage film is traditionally defined as, “A film that juxtaposes fictional scenes with footage taken from disparate sources, such as newsreels.” Combining different types of footage can have various implications depending on the director’s approach. Collage film can also refer to the physical collaging of materials onto filmstrips. Canadian Film maker, Arthur Lipsett, was especially renown for his collage films, many of which were made from the cutting room floors of the National Film Board studios.\n\nThe use of CGI, or \"computer-generated imagery\", can be considered a form of collage, especially when animated graphics are layered over traditional film footage. At certain moments during \"Amélie\" (Jean-Pierre Juenet, 2001), the mise en scène takes on a highly fantasized style, including fictitious elements like swirling tunnels of color and light. David O. Russel’s \"I Heart Huckabees\" (2004) incorporates CGI effects to visually demonstrate philosophical theories explained by the existential detectives (played by Lily Tomlin and Dustin Hoffman). In this case, the effects serve to enhance clarity, while adding a surreal aspect to an otherwise realistic film.\n\nWhen collage uses existing works, the result is what some copyright scholars call a \"derivative work\". The collage thus has a copyright separate from any copyrights pertaining to the original incorporated works.\n\nDue to redefined and reinterpreted copyright laws, and increased financial interests, some forms of collage art are significantly restricted. For example, in the area of sound collage (such as hip hop music), some court rulings effectively have eliminated the de minimis doctrine as a defense to copyright infringement, thus shifting collage practice away from non-permissive uses relying on fair use or de minimis protections, and toward licensing. Examples of musical collage art that have run afoul of modern copyright are \"The Grey Album\" and Negativland's \"U2\".\n\nThe copyright status of visual works is less troubled, although still ambiguous. For instance, some visual collage artists have argued that the first-sale doctrine protects their work. The first-sale doctrine prevents copyright holders from controlling consumptive uses after the \"first sale\" of their work, although the Ninth Circuit has held that the first-sale doctrine does not apply to derivative works. The de minimis doctrine and the fair use exception also provide important defenses against claimed copyright infringement. The Second Circuit in October, 2006, held that artist Jeff Koons was not liable for copyright infringement because his incorporation of a photograph into a collage painting was fair use.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1982394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1982394", "title": "Cultural appropriation", "text": "Cultural appropriation\n\nCultural appropriation, at times also phrased cultural misappropriation, is the adoption of elements of a minority culture by members of the dominant culture. Because of the presence of power imbalances that are a byproduct of colonialism and oppression, cultural appropriation is distinct from equal cultural exchange. Particularly in the 21st century, cultural appropriation is often considered harmful, and to be a violation of the collective intellectual property rights of the originating, minority cultures, notably indigenous cultures and those living under colonial rule. Often unavoidable when multiple cultures come together, cultural appropriation can include using other cultures' cultural and religious traditions, fashion, symbols, language, and songs.\n\nAccording to critics of the practice, cultural appropriation differs from acculturation, assimilation, or cultural exchange in that this appropriation is a form of colonialism: cultural elements are copied from a minority culture by members of a dominant culture, and these elements are used outside of their original cultural context—sometimes even against the expressly stated wishes of members of the originating culture.\n\nOften, the original meaning of these cultural elements is lost or distorted, and such displays are often viewed as disrespectful, or even as a form of desecration, by members of the originating culture. Cultural elements which may have deep meaning to the original culture may be reduced to \"exotic\" fashion or toys by those from the dominant culture. Kjerstin Johnson has written that, when this is done, the imitator, \"who does not experience that oppression is able to 'play', temporarily, an 'exotic' other, without experiencing any of the daily discriminations faced by other cultures.\" The African-American academic, musician and journalist Greg Tate argues that appropriation and the \"fetishizing\" of cultures, in fact, alienates those whose culture is being appropriated.\n\nThe concept of cultural appropriation has also been widely criticised. Some writers on the topic note that the concept is often misunderstood or misapplied by the general public, and that charges of \"cultural appropriation\" are at times misapplied to situations such as eating food from a variety of cultures, or learning about different cultures. Commentators who criticize the concept believe that the act of cultural appropriation does not meaningfully constitute a social harm, or that the term lacks conceptual coherence. Some argue that the term sets arbitrary limits on intellectual freedom and artists' self-expression, reinforces group divisions, or itself promotes a feeling of enmity or grievance, rather than liberation.\n\nCultural appropriation can involve the use of ideas, symbols, artifacts, or other aspects of human-made visual or non-visual culture.\n\nAs a concept that is controversial in its applications, the propriety of cultural appropriation has been the subject of much debate. Opponents of cultural appropriation view many instances as wrongful appropriation when the subject culture is a minority culture or is subordinated in social, political, economic, or military status to the dominant culture or when there are other issues involved, such as a history of ethnic or racial conflict. This is often seen in cultural outsiders' use of an oppressed culture's symbols or other cultural elements, such as music, dance, spiritual ceremonies, modes of dress, speech, and social behaviour, notably when these elements are trivialized and used for fashion, rather than respected within their original cultural context. Opponents view the issues of colonialism, context, and the difference between appropriation and mutual exchange as central to analyzing cultural appropriation. They argue that mutual exchange happens on an \"even playing field\", whereas appropriation involves pieces of an oppressed culture being taken out of context by a people who have historically oppressed those they are taking from, and who lack the cultural context to properly understand, respect, or utilize these elements.\n\nA different view of cultural appropriation characterizes critics of the practice as \"engaged in a deeply conservative project: one which first seeks to preserve in formaldehyde the content of an established culture and second tries to prevent others from interacting with that culture.\" Proponents of cultural appropriation view it as often benign or mutually beneficial, citing mutation, product diversity, technological diffusion, and cultural empathy as among its benefits. For example, the film \"Star Wars\" appropriated elements from Akira Kurosawa's \"The Hidden Fortress\", which itself appropriated elements from Shakespeare; culture in the aggregate is arguably better off for each instance of appropriation. Fusion between cultures has produced such foods as American Chinese cuisine, modern Japanese sushi, and bánh mì, each of which is sometimes argued to reflect part of its respective culture's identity.\n\nCultural appropriation is a relatively recent subject of academic study. \nThe term emerged in the 1980s, in discussions of post-colonial critiques of Western expansionism, though the concept had been explored earlier, such as in \"Some General Observations on the Problems of Cultural Colonialism\" by Kenneth Coutts‐Smith in 1976.\n\nCultural and racial theorist George Lipsitz has used the term \"strategic anti-essentialism\" to refer to the calculated use of a cultural form, outside of one's own, to define oneself or one's group. Strategic anti-essentialism can be seen in both minority cultures and majority cultures, and is not confined only to the use of the other. However, Lipsitz argues, when the majority culture attempts to strategically anti-essentialize itself by appropriating a minority culture, it must take great care to recognize the specific socio-historical circumstances and significance of these cultural forms so as not to perpetuate the already existing majority vs. minority unequal power relations.\n\nA common example of cultural appropriation is the adoption of the iconography of another culture, and using it for purposes that are unintended by the original culture or even offensive to that culture's mores. Examples include sports teams using Native American tribal names or images as mascots; wearing jewelry or fashion with religious symbols such as the war bonnet, medicine wheel, or cross without any belief in those religions; and copying iconography from another culture's history such as Polynesian tribal tattoos, Chinese characters, or Celtic art worn without regard to their original cultural significance. Critics of the practice of cultural appropriation contend that divorcing this iconography from its cultural context or treating it as kitsch risks offending people who venerate and wish to preserve their cultural traditions.\n\nIn Australia, Aboriginal artists have discussed an \"authenticity brand\" to ensure consumers are aware of artworks claiming false Aboriginal significance. The movement for such a measure gained momentum after the 1999 conviction of John O'Loughlin for the fraudulent sale of works described as Aboriginal but painted by non-indigenous artists.\n\nIn Europe and North America a common example of cultural appropriation is the misrepresentation of East Indian symbols, mythology and religious ideas as typified in Rudyard Kipling's stories and Talbot Mundy's Jimgrim book series including the highly discussed Nine Unknown and King of the Khyber Rifles. Movements to undo the biases, misrepresentations, and cultural inaccuracies made popular by authors like Kipling and Mundy have gained significant momentum since Kipling's poem \"If—\" was scrubbed off Manchester University walls by student leaders. AAJA, a watchdog organization for fair and respectful cultural representation, works to point out and prevent these cultural inaccuracies in the media.\n\nHistorically, some of the most hotly debated cases of cultural appropriation have occurred in places where cultural exchange is the highest, such as along the trade routes in southwestern Asia and southeastern Europe. Some scholars of the Ottoman Empire and ancient Egypt argue that Ottoman and Egyptian architectural traditions have long been falsely claimed and praised as Persian or Arab.\n\nAmong critics, the misuse and misrepresentation of indigenous intellectual property is seen as an exploitative form of colonialism, and one step in the destruction of indigenous cultures.\n\nThe results of this use of indigenous knowledge have led some tribes, and the United Nations General Assembly, to issue several declarations on the subject. The \"Declaration of War Against Exploiters of Lakota Spirituality\" includes the passage:\nArticle 31 1 of the United Nations \"Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples\" states:\n\nMany Native Americans have criticized what they deem to be cultural appropriation of their sweat lodge and vision quest ceremonies by non-Natives, and even by tribes who have not traditionally had these ceremonies. They also contend that there are higher safety risks when the ceremonies are conducted by non-Natives, pointing to deaths or injuries in 1996, 2002, 2004, and several high-profile deaths in 2009.\n\nIn 2015, a group of Native American academics and writers issued a statement against the Rainbow Family members whose acts of \"cultural exploitation... dehumanize us as an indigenous Nation because they imply our culture and humanity, like our land, is anyone's for the taking.\"\n\nCultural appropriation is controversial in the fashion industry due to the belief that some trends commercialise and cheapen the ancient heritage of indigenous cultures. There is debate about whether designers and fashion houses understand the history behind the clothing they are taking from different cultures, besides the ethical issues of using these cultures' shared intellectual property without consent, acknowledgement, or compensation. In response to this criticism, many fashion experts claim that this occurrence is in fact \"culture appreciation\", rather than cultural appropriation. Companies and designers claim the use of unique cultural symbols is an effort to recognize and pay homage to that specific culture.\n\nDuring the 17th century, the forerunner to the three piece suit was appropriated from the traditional dress of diverse Eastern European and Islamic countries. The Justacorps frock coat was copied from the long zupans worn in Poland and the Ukraine, the necktie or cravat was derived from a scarf worn by Croatian mercenaries fighting for Louis XIII, and the brightly colored silk waistcoats popularised by Charles II of England were inspired by exotic Turkish, Indian and Persian attire acquired by wealthy English travellers.\n\nDuring the Highland Clearances, the British aristocracy appropriated traditional Scottish clothing. Tartan was given spurious association with specific Highland clans after publications such as James Logan's romanticised work \"The Scottish Gael\" (1831) led the Scottish tartan industry to invent clan tartans and tartan became a desirable material for dresses, waistcoats and cravats. In America, plaid flannel had become workwear by the time of Westward expansion, and was widely worn by Old West pioneers and cowboys who were not of Scottish descent. In the 21st century, tartan remains ubiquitous in mainstream fashion.\n\nBy the 19th century the fascination had shifted to Asian culture. English Regency era dandies adapted the Indian churidars into slim fitting pantaloons, and frequently wore turbans within their own houses. Later, Victorian gentlemen wore smoking caps based on the Islamic fez, and fashionable turn of the century ladies wore Orientalist Japanese inspired kimono dresses. During the tiki culture fad of the 1950s, white women frequently donned the qipao to give the impression that they had visited Hong Kong, although the dresses were frequently made by seamstresses in America using rayon rather than genuine silk. At the same time, teenage British Teddy Girls wore Chinese coolie hats due to their exotic connotations.\n\nIn Mexico, the sombrero associated with the mestizo peasant class was appropriated from an earlier hat introduced by the Spanish colonials during the 18th century. This, in turn, was adapted into the cowboy hat worn by American cowboys after the US Civil War. In 2016, the University of East Anglia prohibited the wearing of sombreros to parties on campus, in the belief that these could offend Mexican students.\n\nAmerican Western wear was copied from the work attire of 19th century Mexican Vaqueros, especially the pointed cowboy boots and the guayabera which was adapted into the embroidered Western shirt. The China poblana dress associated with Mexican women was appropriated from the choli and lehenga worn by Indian maidservants like Catarina de San Juan who arrived from Asia from the 17th century onwards.\n\nIn Britain, the rough tweed cloth clothing of the Irish, English and Scottish peasantry, including the flat cap and Irish hat were appropriated by the upper classes as the British country clothing worn for sports such as hunting or fishing, in imitation of the then Prince of Wales. The country clothing, in turn, was appropriated by the wealthy American soc and later preppy subcultures during the 1950s and 1980s due to both its practicality and its association with the English elite. During the same period the British commedian Tommy Cooper was known for wearing a Fez throughout his performances.\n\nWhen keffiyehs became popular in the late 2000s, experts made a clear distinction between the wearing of a genuine scarf, and a fake made in China. Palestinian independence activists and socialists denounced the wearing of scarves not made in Palestine as a form of cultural appropriation, but encouraged young white people and fellow Muslims to buy shemaghs made in the Herbawi factory to demonstrate solidarity with the Palestinian people and improve the economy of the West Bank. In 2017, Topshop caused controversy by selling Chinese-made playsuits that imitated the pattern of the keffiyeh.\n\nIn 2012 during the annual Victoria's Secret fashion show, model Karlie Kloss was scrutinized for wearing a Native American headdress during her walk on the runway. There was a mixed public response. People of mixed heritage were the most sensitive to headdress. \"USA Today\" ran a feature where they interviewed a woman of mixed heritage who said that the headdress is a symbol of leadership and honour, and also has a religious meaning behind it. This cultural meaning was not considered in Victoria’s Secret’s use of the headdress as an accessory. Victoria's Secret issued an apology stating that they had no intentions of offending anyone.\n\nArchbishop Justin Welby of the Anglican Church has claimed that the crucifix is \"now just a fashion statement and has lost its religious meaning.\". Crucifixes have been incorporated into Japanese lolita fashion by non-Christians in a cultural context that is distinct from its original meaning as a Christian religious symbol.\n\n\nWhile the history of colonization and marginalization is not unique to the Americas, the practice of non-Native sports teams deriving team names, imagery, and mascots from indigenous peoples is still common in the United States and Canada, and has persisted to some extent despite protests from Indigenous groups. Cornel Pewewardy, Professor and Director of Indigenous Nations Studies at Portland State University, cites indigenous mascots as an example of dysconscious racism which, by placing images of Native American or First Nations people into an invented media context, continues to maintain the superiority of the dominant culture. It is argued that such practices maintain the power relationship between the dominant culture and the indigenous culture, and can be seen as a form of cultural imperialism.\n\nSuch practices may be seen as particularly harmful in schools and universities which have a stated purpose of promoting ethnic diversity and inclusion. In recognition of the responsibility of higher education to eliminate behaviors that create a hostile environment for education, in 2005 the NCAA initiated a policy against \"hostile and abusive\" names and mascots that led to the change of many derived from Native American culture, with the exception of those that established an agreement with particular tribes for the use of their specific names. Other schools retain their names because they were founded for the education of Native Americans, and continue to have a significant number of indigenous students. The trend towards the elimination of indigenous names and mascots in local schools has been steady, with two thirds having been eliminated over the past 50 years according to the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI).\n\nWhile the leadership of nearly all Native American tribes object to their depictions as sports mascots, only one tribe explicitly approves of such representations. The Florida State Seminoles use the iconography of the Seminole tribe. Their mascots are Osceola and Renegade, depictions of the Seminole chief Osceola and his Appaloosa horse. After the NCAA attempted to ban the use of Native American names and iconography in college sports in 2005, the Seminole Tribe of Florida passed a resolution offering explicit support for FSU's use of Seminole culture and Osceola as a mascot; the university was granted a waiver, citing the close relationship with and consultation between the team and the tribe. In 2013, the tribe's chairman objected to outsiders meddling in tribal approval, stating that the FSU mascot and use of Seminole iconography \"represents the courage of the people who were here and are still here, known as the Unconquered Seminoles.\" Conversely, in 2013, the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma expressed disapproval of \"the use of all American Indian sports-team mascots in the public school system, by college and university level and by professional sports teams\", and not all members of the tribe's Florida branch are supportive of its stance.\n\nIn other former colonies in Asia, Africa, and South America, the adoption of indigenous names for majority indigenous teams is also found. There are also ethnicity-related team names derived from prominent immigrant populations in the area, such as the Boston Celtics, the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, and the Minnesota Vikings.\n\nThe 2018 Commonwealth Games to be held on the Gold Coast in Australia from 4 April 2018 has named its mascot Borobi, the local Yugambeh word for \"koala,\" and has sought to trademark the word through IP Australia. The application is being opposed by a Yugambeh cultural heritage organisation, which argues that the Games organising committee used the word without proper consultation with the Yugambeh people.\n\nThe term wigger (common spelling \"wigga\") is a slang term for a white person who adopts the mannerisms, language, and fashions associated with African-American culture, particularly hip hop, and, in Britain, the grime scene, often implying the imitation is being done badly, although usually with sincerity rather than mocking intent. Wigger is a portmanteau of \"white\" and \"nigger\" or \"nigga,\" and the related term wangsta is a mashup of \"wannabe\" or \"white\", and \"gangsta\". Among black hip-hop fans, the word \"nigga\" can sometimes be considered a friendly greeting, but when used by whites, it is usually viewed as offensive. \"Wigger\" may be derogatory, reflecting stereotypes of African-American, black British, and white culture (when used as synonym of white trash). The term is sometimes used in a racist manner, by other white people to belittle the person perceived as \"acting black\", but it is also widely used by African Americans like 50 Cent offended by the wigga or wanksta's demeaning of black people and culture.\n\nThe phenomenon of white people adopting elements of black culture has been prevalent at least since slavery was abolished in the Western world. The concept has been documented in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and other white-majority countries. An early form of this was the \"white negro\" in the jazz and swing music scenes of the 1920s and 1930s, as examined in the 1957 Norman Mailer essay \"The White Negro\". It was later seen in the zoot suiter of the 1930s and 1940s, the hipster of the 1940s, the beatnik of the 1950s–1960s, the blue-eyed soul of the 1970s, and the hip hop of the 1980s and 1990s. In 1993, an article in the UK newspaper \"The Independent\" described the phenomenon of white, middle-class kids who were \"wannabe Blacks\". 2005 saw the publication of \"Why White Kids Love Hip Hop: Wangstas, Wiggers, Wannabes, and the New Reality of Race in America\" by Bakari Kitwana, \"a culture critic who's been tracking American hip hop for years\"\".\"\n\nRobert A. Clift's documentary \"Blacking Up: Hip-Hop's Remix of Race and Identity\" questions white enthusiasts of black hip-hop culture. Clift's documentary examines \"racial and cultural ownership and authenticity -- a path that begins with the stolen blackness seen in the success of Stephen Foster, Al Jolson, Benny Goodman, Elvis Presley, the Rolling Stones -- all the way up to Vanilla Ice (popular music's ur-wigger...) and Eminem.\" A review of the documentary refers to the wiggers as \"white poseurs\", and states that the term \"wigger\" \"is used both proudly and derisively to describe white enthusiasts of black hip-hop culture\".\n\nUse of minority languages is also cited as cultural appropriated, such as when non-speakers of Scottish Gaelic or Irish get tattoos in that language. Likewise, the use of incorrect Scottish Gaelic in a tokenistic fashion aimed at non-Gaelic speakers on signage and announcements has been criticized as disrespectful to fluent speakers of the language.\n\nSince the early 2000s, it has become increasingly popular for people not of Asian descent, to get tattoos of Indian devanagari, Korean letters or Han characters (traditional, simplified or Japanese), often without knowing the actual meaning of the symbols being used.\n\nAccording to last US Census (2010), Asian-Americans make up 4.8 percent of the population. However, according to a study by the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism in 2016, only one out of 20 (which corresponds to 5 percent) speaking roles go to Asian-Americans, and they are given only one percent of lead roles in film. White actors account for 76.2 percent of lead roles, while representing 72.4 percent of the population according to the last US census. \n\nIn 2017, \"Ghost in the Shell\", which is based on the seinen manga \"Ghost in the Shell\" by Masamune Shirow, provoked disputes over whitewashing. Scarlett Johansson, a white actress, took the role of Motoko Kusanagi, a Japanese character. This was seen as cultural appropriation by some fans of the original manga who expected the role to be taken by an Asian or Asian-American actor.\n\nDuring Halloween, some people buy, wear, and sell Halloween costumes based on cultural or racial stereotypes. Costumes that depict cultural stereotypes, like \"Indian Warrior\" or \"Pocahottie\" are sometimes worn by people who do not belong to the cultural group being stereotyped. These costumes have been criticized as being in poor taste at best and, at worst, blatantly racist and dehumanizing. There have been public protests calling for the end to the manufacture and sales of these costumes and connecting their \"degrading\" portrayals of Indigenous women to the Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women (MMIW) crisis. In some cases, theme parties have been held where attendees are encouraged to dress up as stereotypes of a certain racial group. A number of these parties have been held at colleges, and at times other than Halloween, including Martin Luther King Jr. Day and Black History Month.\n\nIn chapter four of his book \"Playing Indian\", Native American historian Philip J. Deloria refers to the Koshare Indian Museum and Dancers as an example of \"object hobbyists\" who adopt the material culture of indigenous peoples of the past (\"the vanishing Indian\") while failing to engage with contemporary native peoples or acknowledge the history of conquest and dispossession. Some Native Americans have stated that all such impersonations and performances are a form of cultural appropriation which place dance and costumes in an inappropriate context devoid of their true meaning, sometimes mixing elements from different tribes.\n\nFor 2015, the Koshare's Winter Night dances were canceled after a request was received from Cultural Preservation Office (CPO) of the Hopi Nation asking that the troop discontinue their interpretation of the dances of the Hopi and Pueblo Native Americans. Director of the CPO Leigh Kuwanwisiwma saw video of the performances online, and said the performers were \"mimicking our dances, but they were insensitive, as far as I'm concerned.\" In the 1950s, the head councilman of the Zuni Pueblo saw a performance and said: \"We know your hearts are good, but even with good hearts you have done a bad thing.\" In Zuni culture, religious object and practices are only for those that have earned the right to participate, following techniques and prayers that have been handed down for generations.\n\nThere are many other examples of groups associated with scout troops attempting to duplicate Native American dance with varying degrees of authenticity.\n\nSome people in the transgender community have protested against the casting of straight, cis-gender actors in trans acting roles, such as when Eddie Redmayne played the role of artist Lili Elbe in the film \"The Danish Girl\" and when Jared Leto played the role of a trans woman named Rayon in \"Dallas Buyers Club\". The gay community has expressed concerns about the use of straight actors to play gay characters, a practice nicknamed \"gay for pay\"; this occurs in films such as \"Call Me by Your Name\" (straight actors Armie Hammer and Timothée Chalamet), \"Brokeback Mountain\" (Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal), \"Philadelphia\" (starring Tom Hanks), \"Capote\" (starring Philip Seymour Hoffman) and \"Milk\" (with Sean Penn playing the role of the real-life gay rights activist, Harvey Milk). Jay Caruso calls these controversies \"wholly manufactured\", on the grounds that the actors \"are playing a role\" using the \"art of acting\".\n\nIn some cases, a culture usually viewed as the target of cultural appropriation can be accused of appropriation, particularly after colonization and an extensive period re-organization of that culture under the nation-state system. For example, the government of Ghana has been accused of cultural appropriation in adopting the Caribbean Emancipation Day and marketing it to African American tourists as an \"African festival\".\n\nFor some members of the South-Asian community, the wearing of a bindi dot as a decorative item, by a non-Hindu, or by a woman who is not South Asian, is considered cultural appropriation.\n\nA common term among Irish people for someone who imitates or misrepresents Irish culture is \"Plastic Paddy\".\n\nIn 2003, Prince Harry of the British royal family used Indigenous Australian art motifs in a painting for a school project. One Aboriginal group labelled it \"misappropriation of our culture\", saying that to Aboriginal people, the motifs have symbolic meanings \"indicative of our spiritualism\", whereas when non-Aborigines use the motifs they are simply \"painting a pretty picture\".\n\nIn the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show 2012, former Victoria's Secret model Karlie Kloss donned a Native American-style feathered headdress with leather bra and panties and high-heeled moccasins. This was said to be an example of cultural appropriation because the fashion show is showcasing the company's lingerie and image as a global fashion giant. The outfit was supposed to represent November, and thus \"Thanksgiving\", in the \"Calendar Girls\" segment. The outfit met with backlash and criticism as an appropriation of Native American culture and tradition. Victoria's Secret pulled it from the broadcast and apologized for its use. Kloss also commented on the decision by tweeting \"I am deeply sorry if what I wore during the VS Show offended anyone. I support VS's decision to remove the outfit from the broadcast.\"\n\nAvril Lavigne has been cited as appropriating Japanese culture in her song \"Hello Kitty\". The song and music video depict Asian women dressed up in matching outfits and Lavigne eating Asian food while dressed in a pink tutu. Its depiction of Japanese culture was met with widespread criticism, which has included suggestions of racism. Lavigne responded by stating \"I love Japanese culture and I spend half of my time in Japan. I flew to Tokyo to shoot this video ... specifically for my Japanese fans, \"with\" my Japanese label, Japanese choreographers \"and\" a Japanese director \"in\" Japan.\" A lot of the feedback Lavigne received on Twitter was favorable, and those who blamed her for racism were non-Japanese.\n\nWhen Selena Gomez wore the bindi during a performance, there was debate on her reasoning behind wearing the culture specific piece. Some viewed this as \"casting her vote for Team India\" but it was also viewed as misuse of the symbol as Selena was seen as not supporting or relating the Bindi to its origin of Hinduism, but furthering her own self-expression. In 2014, Pharrell Williams posed in a Native American war bonnet on the cover of \"Elle\" UK magazine, after much controversy and media surrounding the photo Williams apologized.\n\nActress Amandla Stenberg made a school-related video called \"Don't Cash Crop on My Cornrows\" about the use of black hairstyles and black culture by non-black people, acussing like Katy Perry and Iggy Azalea of using \"black culture as a way of being edgy and gaining attention\". Stenberg later criticized Kylie Jenner for allegedly embracing African-American aesthetic values without addressing the issues that affect the community. The African-American hip hop artist Azealia Banks has also criticized Iggy Azalea \"for failing to comment on 'black issues' despite capitalising on the appropriation of African American culture in her music.\" Banks has called Azalea a \"wigger\" and there have been \"accusations of racism against Azalea\" focused on her alleged \"insensitivity to the complexities of race relations and cultural appropriation.\"\n\nRachel Dolezal made headlines in 2015 when it was discovered that she was not African-American, as she had claimed. She is an American former civil rights activist known for being exposed as Caucasian while falsely claiming to be a black woman. Doležal was president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) chapter in Spokane, Washington, from February 7, 2014 until June 15, 2015 when she resigned amid suspicion she had lied about nine alleged hate crimes against her. She received further public scrutiny when her white parents publicly stated that Doležal was a white woman passing as black.\n\nIn 2017, Miley Cyrus talked to Billboard magazine regarding her new image. She criticized the same African-American stereotypes and cultural elements that she had previously incorporated into her work. This was met with backlash, with people saying Cyrus has a history of appropriating hip hop culture.\n\nIn 2011, a group of students at Ohio University started a poster campaign denouncing the use of cultural stereotypes as costumes. The campaign features people of color alongside their respective stereotypes with slogans such as \"This is not who I am and this is not okay.\" The goal of the movement was to raise awareness around racism during Halloween in the university and the surrounding community, but the images also circulated online.\n\n\"Reclaim the Bindi\" has become a hashtag used by some people of South Asian descent who wear traditional garb, and object to its use by people not of their culture. At the 2014 Coachella festival one of the most noted fashion trends was the bindi, a traditional Hindu head mark. As pictures of the festival surfaced online there was public controversy over the casual wearing of the bindi by non-Indian individuals who did not understand the meaning behind it. #CoachellaShutdown has been used in conjunction with #ReclaimtheBindi in order to protest against the use of the bindi at music festivals, most notably the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival. Reclaim the Bindi Week is an event which seeks to promote the traditional cultural significance of the bindi and combat its use as a fashion statement.\n\nJohn McWhorter, a professor at Columbia University, has criticized the concept, arguing that cultural borrowing and cross-fertilization is a generally positive thing, and is something which is usually done out of admiration, and with no intent to harm, the cultures being imitated; he also argued that the specific term \"appropriation,\" which can mean theft, is misleading when applied to something like culture that is not seen by all as a limited resource: unlike appropriating a physical object, others imitating an idea taken from one group's culture don't inherently deprive that originating group of its use.\n\nIn 2016, author Lionel Shriver gave a speech at the Brisbane Writers Festival, asserting the right of authors to write from any point of view, including that of characters from cultural backgrounds other than their own – as writers \"should be seeking to push beyond the constraining categories into which we have been arbitrarily dropped by birth. If we embrace narrow group-based identities too fiercely, we cling to the very cages in which others would seek to trap us.\" She also asserted the right of authors from a cultural majority to write in the voice of someone from a cultural minority, attacking the idea that this constitutes unethical \"cultural appropriation\". Referring to a case in which U.S. college students were facing disciplinary action for wearing sombreros to a 'tequila party', she said \"The moral of the sombrero scandals is clear: \"you're not supposed to try on other people's hats\". Yet that's what we’re paid to do, isn't it? Step into other people's shoes, and try on their hats.\" Sudanese-Australian social activist Yassmin Abdel-Magied walked out on Shriver's speech. Abdel-Magied later wrote a dissenting opinion piece, published in \"The Guardian\"; which has run a series of articles covering the debate over \"cultural appropriation\" matters. In it, she called the speech \"a poisoned package wrapped up in arrogance and delivered with condescension\". She reiterated the basic premises and arguments which form the ideological basis of \"cultural appropriation\", as stated in the above sections, regarding majority/minority, group identity, oppression, colonialism, etc.; but did not address Shriver's arguments about the merits of imagination and intellectual freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1696637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696637", "title": "Cultural artifact", "text": "Cultural artifact\n\n__notoc__\nA cultural artifact, or cultural artefact (see American and British English spelling differences), is a term used in the social sciences, particularly anthropology, ethnology and sociology for anything created by humans which gives information about the culture of its creator and users. \"Artifact\" is the spelling in North American English; \"artefact\" is usually preferred elsewhere.\n\nCultural artifact is a more generic term and should be considered with two words of similar, but narrower, nuance: it can include objects recovered from archaeological sites, i.e. archaeological artifacts, but can also include objects of modern or early-modern society, or social artifacts. For example, in an anthropological context: a 17th-century lathe, a piece of faience, or a television each provides a wealth of information about the time in which they were manufactured and used.\n\nCultural artifacts, whether ancient or current, have a significance because they offer an insight into: technological processes, economic development and social structure, among other attributes.\n\nThe philosopher Marx W. Wartofsky categorised artifacts as follows:\n\nSocial artifacts, unlike archaeological artifacts, do not need to have a physical form (for example virtual artifact), nor to be of historical value (items created seconds ago can be classified as social artifacts).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293133", "title": "Culture of India", "text": "Culture of India\n\nThe culture of India refers collectively to the thousands of distinct and unique cultures of all religions and communities present in India. India's languages, religions, dance, music, architecture, food, and customs differ from place to place within the country. Indian culture, often labeled as an amalgamation of several cultures, spans across the Indian subcontinent and has been influenced by a history that is several millennia old. Many elements of India's diverse cultures, such as Indian religions, philosophy, cuisine, languages, martial arts, dance, music and movies have a profound impact across the Indosphere, Greater India and the world.\n\nIndian-origin religions include Jainism, Buddhism, Sikhism and Hinduism. all of which are based on the concept of dharma and karma. Ahimsa, a philosophy of nonviolence, is an important aspect of native Indian faiths whose most well known proponent was Mahatma Gandhi who through civil disobedience brought India together against the British Raj and this philosophy further inspired Martin Luther King, Jr. during the American civil rights movement. Indian-origin religions have been persecuted by for centuries. Muslim rulers massacred Hindus and Buddhists while attacking temples and monasteries, while also forcing them to convert including on the battlefield. Most of the great temples in North India were destroyed during the Muslim rule. \"Mohammedan Conquest of India is probably the bloodiest story in history\", consequently between the years 1000 AD and 1500 AD, the population of the Indian subcontinent decreased from 200 to 125 million. Foreign-origin religion, including Abrahamic religions, such as Judasim, Christianity and Islam, are also present in India, as well as Zoroastrianism and Bahá'í Faith both escaping persecution by Islam have also found shelter in India over the centuries.\n\nIndia has 29 states with different culture and civilizations and one of the most populated countries in the world. The Indian culture, often labeled as an amalgamation of several various cultures, spans across the Indian subcontinent and has been influenced and shaped by a history that is several thousand years old. Throughout the history of India, Indian culture has been heavily influenced by Dharmic religions. They have been credited with shaping much of Indian philosophy, literature, architecture, art and music. Greater India was the historical extent of Indian culture beyond the Indian subcontinent. This particularly concerns the spread of Hinduism, Buddhism, architecture, administration and writing system from India to other parts of Asia through the Silk Road by the travellers and maritime traders during the early centuries of the Common Era. To the west, Greater India overlaps with Greater Persia in the Hindu Kush and Pamir Mountains. Over the centuries, there has been significant fusion of cultures between Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims, Jains, Sikhs and various tribal populations in India.\n\nIndia is the birthplace of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, and other religions. They are collectively known as Indian religions. Indian religions are a major form of world religions along with Abrahamic ones. Today, Hinduism and Buddhism are the world's third and fourth-largest religions respectively, with over 2 billion followers altogether, and possibly as many as 2.5 or 2.6 billion followers. Followers of Indian religions – Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists make up around 80–82% population of India.\n\nIndia is one of the most religiously and ethnically diverse nations in the world, with some of the most deeply religious societies and cultures. Religion plays a central and definitive role in the life of many of its people. Although India is a secular Hindu-majority country, it has a large Muslim population. Except for Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Mizoram and Lakshadweep, Hindus form the predominant population in all 29 states and 7 union territories. Muslims are present throughout India, with large populations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Kerala, Telangana, West Bengal and Assam; while only Jammu and Kashmir and Lakshadweep have majority Muslim populations. Sikhs and Christians are other significant minorities of India.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, 79.8% of the population of India practice Hinduism. Islam (14.2%), Christianity (2.3%), Sikhism (1.7%), Buddhism (0.7%) and Jainism (0.4%) are the other major religions followed by the people of India. Many tribal religions, such as Sarnaism, are found in India, though these have been affected by major religions such as Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam and Christianity. Jainism, Zoroastrianism, Judaism, and the Bahá'í Faith are also influential but their numbers are smaller. Atheism and agnostics also have visible influence in India, along with a self-ascribed tolerance to other faiths. According to a study conducted by the Pew Research Centre, India will have world's largest populations of Hindus and Muslims by 2050. India is expected to have about 311 million Muslims making up around 19–20% of the population and yet about 1.3 billion Hindus are projected to live in India comprising around 76% of the population.\n\nAtheism and agnosticism have a long history in India and flourished within Śramaṇa movement. The \"Cārvāka\" school originated in India around the 6th century BCE. It is one of the earliest form of materialistic and atheistic movement in ancient India. Sramana, Buddhism, Jainism, Ājīvika and some schools of Hinduism consider atheism to be valid and reject the concept of creator deity, ritualism and superstitions. India has produced some notable atheist politicians and social reformers. According to the 2012 WIN-Gallup Global Index of Religion and Atheism report, 81% of Indians were religious, 13% were not religious, 3% were convinced atheists, and 3% were unsure or did not respond.\n\nIndian philosophy comprises the philosophical traditions of the Indian subcontinent. There are six schools of orthodox Hindu philosophy—Nyaya, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Yoga, Mīmāṃsā and Vedanta—and four heterodox schools—Jain, Buddhist, Ājīvika and Cārvāka – last two are also schools of Hinduism. However, there are other methods of classification; Vidyarania for instance identifies sixteen schools of Indian philosophy by including those that belong to the Śaiva and Raseśvara traditions. Since medieval India (ca.1000–1500), schools of Indian philosophical thought have been classified by the Brahmanical tradition as either orthodox or non-orthodox – āstika or nāstika – depending on whether they regard the Vedas as an infallible source of knowledge.\n\nThe main schools of Indian philosophy were formalised chiefly between 1000 BCE to the early centuries of the Common Era. According to philosopher Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the earliest of these, which date back to the composition of the Upanishads in the later Vedic period (1000–500 BCE), constitute \"the earliest philosophical compositions of the world.\" Competition and integration between the various schools was intense during their formative years, especially between 800 BCE and 200 CE. Some schools like Jainism, Buddhism, Śaiva and Advaita Vedanta survived, but others, like Samkhya and Ājīvika, did not; they were either assimilated or became extinct. Subsequent centuries produced commentaries and reformulations continuing up to as late as the 20th century. Authors who gave contemporary meaning to traditional philosophies include Shrimad Rajchandra, Swami Vivekananda, Ram Mohan Roy, and Swami Dayananda Saraswati.\n\nFor generations, India has a prevailing tradition of the joint family system. It is when extended members of a family – parents, children, the children's spouses and their offspring, etc. – live together. Usually, the oldest male member is the head in the joint Indian family system. He mostly makes all important decisions and rules, and other family members are likely to abide by them.\n\nIn a 1966 study, Orenstein and Micklin analysed India's population data and family structure. Their studies suggest that Indian household sizes had remained similar over the 1911 to 1951 period. There after, with urbanisation and economic development, India has witnessed a break up of traditional joint family into more nuclear-like families.\nSinha, in his book, after summarising the numerous sociological studies done on Indian family, notes that over the last 60 years, the cultural trend in most parts of India has been an accelerated change from joint family to nuclear families, much like population trends in other parts of the world. The traditionally large joint family in India, in the 1990s, accounted for a small percent of Indian households, and on average had lower per capita household income. He finds that joint family still persists in some areas and in certain conditions, in part due cultural traditions and in part due to practical factors.\nYouth in lower socio-economic classes are more inclined to spend time with their families than their peers due to differing ideologies in rural and urban parenting. With the spread of education and growth of economics, the traditional joint-family system is breaking down rapidly across India and attitudes towards working women have changed.\n\nArranged marriages have long been the norm in Indian society. Even today, the majority of Indians have their marriages planned by their parents and other respected family-members. In the past, the age of marriage was young. The average age of marriage for women in India has increased to 21 years, according to 2011 Census of India. In 2009, about 7% of women got married before the age of 18.\n\nIn most of the marriages the bride's family provide a dowry to the bridegroom. Traditionally, the dowry was considered a woman's share of the family wealth, since a daughter had no legal claim on her natal family's real estate. It also typically included portable valuables such as jewellery and household goods that a bride could control throughout her life. Historically, in most families the inheritance of family estates passed down the male line. Since 1956, Indian laws treat males and females as equal in matters of inheritance without a legal will. Indians are increasingly using a legal will for inheritance and property succession, with about 20 percent using a legal will by 2004.\n\nIn India, the divorce rate is low — 1% compared with about 40% in the United States. These statistics do not reflect a complete picture, though. There is a dearth of scientific surveys or studies on Indian marriages where the perspectives of both husbands and wives were solicited in-depth. Sample surveys suggest the issues with marriages in India are similar to trends observed elsewhere in the world. The divorce rates are rising in India. Urban divorce rates are much higher. Women initiate about 80 percent of divorces in India.\n\nRecent studies suggest that Indian culture is trending away from traditional arranged marriages. Banerjee et al. surveyed 41,554 households across 33 states and union territories in India in 2005. They find that the marriage trends in India are similar to trends observed over last 40 years in China, Japan and other nations. The study found that fewer marriages are purely arranged without consent and that the majority of surveyed Indian marriages are arranged with consent. The percentage of self-arranged marriages (called love marriages in India) were also increasing, particularly in the urban parts of India.\n\nWeddings are festive occasions in India with extensive decorations, colors, music, dance, costumes and rituals that depend on the religion of the bride and the groom, as well as their preferences. The nation celebrates about 10 million weddings per year, of which over 80% are Hindu weddings.\n\nWhile there are many festival-related rituals in Hinduism, \"vivaha\" (wedding) is the most extensive personal ritual an adult Hindu undertakes in his or her life. Typical Hindu families spend significant effort and financial resources to prepare and celebrate weddings. The rituals and process of a Hindu wedding vary depending on region of India, local adaptations, resources of the family and preferences of the bride and the groom. Nevertheless, there are a few key rituals common in Hindu weddings – \"Kanyadaan\", \"Panigrahana\", and \"Saptapadi\"; these are respectively, gifting away of daughter by the father, voluntarily holding hand near the fire to signify impending union, and taking seven steps before fire with each step including a set of mutual vows. After the seventh step and vows of \"Saptapadi\", the couple is legally husband and wife. Sikhs get married through a ceremony called Anand Karaj. The couple walk around the holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib four times.\nIndian Muslims celebrate a traditional Islamic wedding following customs similar to those practiced in the Middle East. The rituals include \"Nikah\", payment of financial dower called \"Mahr\" by the groom to the bride, signing of marriage contract, and a reception. Indian Christian weddings follow customs similar to those practiced in the Christian countries in the West in states like Goa but have more Indian customs in other states.\n\nIndia, being a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and multi-religious society, celebrates holidays and festivals of various religions. The three national holidays in India, the Independence Day, the Republic Day and the Gandhi Jayanti, are celebrated with zeal and enthusiasm across India. In addition, many Indian states and regions have local festivals depending on prevalent religious and linguistic demographics. Popular religious festivals include the Hindu festivals of Navratri, Janmashtami, Diwali, Maha Shivratri, Ganesh Chaturthi, Durga Puja, Holi, Rath Yatra, Ugadi, Onam, Vasant Panchami, Rakshabandhan, and Dussehra. Several harvest festivals such as Makar Sankranti, Sohrai, Pusnâ, Hornbill, Chapchar Kut, Pongal and Raja sankaranti swinging festival are also fairly popular.\nIndian New Year festival are celebrated in different part of India with unique style in different times. Ugadi, Bihu, Gudhi Padwa, Puthandu, Vaisakhi, Pohela Boishakh, Vishu and Vishuva Sankranti are the New Year festival of different part of India.\n\nCertain festivals in India are celebrated by multiple religions. Notable examples include Diwali, which is celebrated by Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, and Jains across the country and Buddha Purnima, Krishna Janmashtami, Ambedkar Jayanti celebrated by Buddhists and Hindus. Sikh festivals, such as Guru Nanak Jayanti, Baisakhi are celebrated with full fanfare by Sikhs and Hindus of Punjab and Delhi where the two communities together form an overwhelming majority of the population. Adding colours to the culture of India, the Dree Festival is one of the tribal festivals of India celebrated by the Apatanis of the Ziro valley of Arunachal Pradesh, which is the easternmost state of India. Nowruz is the most important festival among the Parsi community of India.\n\nIslam in India is the second largest religion with over 172 million Muslims, according to India's 2011 census. The Islamic festivals which are observed and are declared public holiday in India are; Eid ul Fitr, Eid ul Adha-(Bakri Eid), Milad un Nabi, Muharram and Shab-e-Barat. Some of the Indian states have declared regional holidays for the particular regional popular festivals; such as Arba'een, Jumu'ah-tul-Wida and Shab-e-Qadar.\n\nChristianity is India's third largest religion. With over 23 million Christians, of which 17 million are Roman Catholics, India is home to many Christian festivals. The country celebrates Christmas and Good Friday as public holidays.\n\nRegional and community fairs are also common festival in India. For example, Pushkar fair of Rajasthan is one of the world's largest markets of cattle and livestock.\n\nIndian greetings are based on Añjali Mudrā, including Pranāma and Puja.\n\nGreetings include \"Namaste (Hindi and Sanskrit)\", \"Namaskar (Hindi)\", Juhar/Namaskar in Odia, \"Namaskar (Marathi),\" \"Namaskara \"(Kannada), \"Namaskaram\" (Telugu, Malayalam), \"Vanakkam\" (Tamil), \"Nomoshkaar\" (Bengali), \"Nomoskar\" (Assamese), \"Aadab\" (Urdu), and \"Sat Shri Akal\" (Punjabi). All these are common spoken greetings or salutations when people meet, and are forms of farewell when they depart. Namaskar is considered slightly more formal than Namaste but both express deep respect. Namaskar is commonly used in India and Nepal by Hindus, Jains and Buddhists, and many continue to use this outside the Indian subcontinent. In Indian and Nepali culture, the word is spoken at the beginning of written or verbal communication. However, the same hands folded gesture may be made wordlessly or said without the folded hand gesture. The word is derived from \"Sanskrit\" (namah): to bow, reverential salutation, and respect, and (te): \"to you\". Taken literally, it means \"I bow to you\". In Hinduism it means \"I bow to the divine in you.\" In most Indian families, younger men and women are taught to seek the blessing of their elders by reverentially bowing to their elders. This custom is known as Pranāma.\n\nOther greetings include \"Jai Jagannath\" (used in Odia) \"Ami Aschi\" (used in Bengali), \"Jai Shri Krishna\" (in Gujarati and the Braj Bhasha and Rajasthani dialects of Hindi), \"Ram Ram/(Jai) Sita Ram ji\" (Awadhi and Bhojpuri dialects of Hindi and other Bihari dialects), and \"Sat Sri Akal\" (Punjabi; used by followers of Sikhism), \"As-salamu alaykum\" (Urdu; used by follower of Islam), \"Jai Jinendra\" (a common greeting used by followers of Jainism), \"Jai Bhim\" (used by followers of Ambedkarism), \"Namo Buddha\" (used by followers of Buddhism), \"Allah Abho\" (used by followers of Bahá'í), \"Shalom aleichem\" (used by followers of Judaism), \"Hamazor Hama Ashobed\" (used by followers of Zoroastrianism), \"Sahebji\" (Persian and Gujarati; used by the Parsi people), \"Dorood\" (Persian and Guarati; used by the Irani people), \"Om Namah Shivaya/Jai Bholenath\" (used in Dogri and Kashmiri, also used in the city of Varanasi), \"Jai Ambe Maa/Jai Mata di\" (used in Eastern India), \"Jai Ganapati Bapa\" (used in Marathi and Konkani), and etc.\n\nThese traditional forms of greeting may be absent in the world of business and in India's urban environment, where a handshake is a common form of greeting.\n\nThe varied and rich wildlife of India has had a profound impact on the region's popular culture. Common name for wilderness in India is Jungle which was adopted by the British colonialists to the English language. The word has been also made famous in \"The Jungle Book\" by Rudyard Kipling. India's wildlife has been the subject of numerous other tales and fables such as the \"Panchatantra\" and the \"Jataka tales\".\n\nIn Hinduism, the cow is regarded as a symbol of \"ahimsa\" (non-violence), mother goddess and bringer of good fortune and wealth. For this reason, cows are revered in Hindu culture and feeding a cow is seen as an act of worship. This is why beef remains a taboo food in mainstream Hindu and Jain society.\n\nAs of January 2012, cow remains a divisive and controversial topic in India. Several states of India have passed laws to protect cows, while many states have no restrictions on the production and consumption of beef. Some groups oppose the butchering of cows, while other secular groups argue that what kind of meat one eats ought to be a matter of personal choice in a democracy. Madhya Pradesh enacted a law in January 2012, namely the Gau-Vansh Vadh Pratishedh (Sanshodhan) Act, which makes cow slaughter a serious offence. Gujarat, a western state of India, has the Animal Preservation Act, enacted in October 2011, that prohibits killing of cows along with buying, selling and transport of beef. In contrast, Odisha, Assam and Andhra Pradesh allow butchering of cattle with a fit-for-slaughter certificate. In the states of West Bengal and Kerala, consumption of beef is not deemed an offence. Contrary to stereotypes, a sizeable number of Hindus eat beef, and many argue that their scriptures, such as Vedic and Upanishadic texts do not prohibit its consumption. In southern Indian state Kerala, for instance, beef accounts for nearly half of all meat consumed by all communities, including Hindus. Sociologists theorise that the widespread consumption of cow meat in India is because it is a far cheaper source of animal protein for the poor than mutton or chicken, which retail at double the price. For these reasons, India's beef consumption post-independence in 1947 has witnessed a much faster growth than any other kind of meat; currently, India is one of the five largest producer and consumer of cattle livestock meat in the world. A beef ban has been made in Maharashtra and other states as of 2015. While states such as Madhya Pradesh are passing local laws to prevent cruelty to cows, other Indians are arguing \"If the real objective is to prevent cruelty to animals, then why single out the cow when hundreds of other animals are maltreated?\"\n\nIndian food is as diverse as India. Indian cuisines use numerous ingredients, deploy a wide range of food preparation styles, cooking techniques and culinary presentation. From salads to sauces, from vegetarian to meat, from spices to sensuous, from breads to desserts, Indian cuisine is invariably complex. Harold McGee, a favourite of many Michelin-starred chefs, writes \"for sheer inventiveness with milk itself as the primary ingredient, no country on earth can match India.\"\n\nAccording to Sanjeev Kapoor, a member of Singapore Airlines' International Culinary Panel, Indian food has long been an expression of world cuisine. Kapoor claims, \"if you looked back in India's history and study the food that our ancestors ate, you will notice how much attention was paid to the planning and cooking of a meal. Great thought was given to the texture and taste of each dish.\" One such historical record is , (, The Delight of Mind), written in the 12th century. The book describes the need to change cuisine and food with seasons, various methods of cooking, the best blend of flavours, the feel of various foods, planning and style of dining amongst other things.\n\nIndia is known for its love of food and spices. Indian cuisine varies from region to region, reflecting the local produce, cultural diversity, and varied demographics of the country. Generally, Indian cuisine can be split into five categories – northern, southern, eastern, western, and northeastern. The diversity of Indian cuisine is characterised by the differing use of many spices and herbs, a wide assortment of recipes and cooking techniques. Though a significant portion of Indian food is vegetarian, many Indian dishes also include meats like chicken, mutton, beef (both cow and buffalo), pork and fish, egg and other seafood. Fish-based cuisines are common in eastern states of India, particularly West Bengal and the western state of Kerala.\nDespite this diversity, some unifying threads emerge. Varied uses of spices are an integral part of certain food preparations and are used to enhance the flavour of a dish and create unique flavours and aromas. Cuisine across India has also been influenced by various cultural groups that entered India throughout history, such as the Central Asians, Arabs, Mughals, and European colonists. Sweets are also very popular among Indians, particularly in Bengal where both Bengali Hindus and Bengali Muslims distribute sweets to mark joyous occasions.\n\nIndian cuisine is one of the most popular cuisines across the globe. In most Indian restaurants outside India, the menu does not do justice to the enormous variety of Indian cuisine available – the most common cuisine served on the menu would be Punjabi cuisine (chicken tikka masala is a very popular dish in the United Kingdom). There do exist some restaurants serving cuisines from other regions of India, although these are few and far between. Historically, Indian spices and herbs were one of the most sought after trade commodities. The spice trade between India and Europe led to the rise and dominance of Arab traders to such an extent that European explorers, such as Vasco da Gama and Christopher Columbus, set out to find new trade routes with India leading to the \"Age of Discovery\". The popularity of \"curry\", which originated in India, across Asia has often led to the dish being labeled as the \"pan-Asian\" dish.\n\nRegional Indian cuisine continues to evolve. A fusion of East Asian and Western cooking methods with traditional cuisines, along with regional adaptations of fast food are prominent in major Indian cities.\n\nThe cuisine of Telangana consists of the Telugu cuisine, of the Telugu people as well as Hyderabadi cuisine (also known as Nizami cuisine), of the Hyderabadi Muslim community. Hyderabadi food is based heavily on non-vegetarian ingredients while, Telugu food is a mix of both vegetarian and non-vegetarian ingredients. Telugu food is rich in spices and chillies are abundantly used. The food also generally tends to be more on the tangy side with tamarind and lime juice both used liberally as souring agents. Rice is the staple food of Telugu people. Starch is consumed with a variety of curries and lentil soups or broths. Vegetarian and non-vegetarian foods are both popular. Hyderabadi cuisine includes popular delicacies such as \"Biryani\", \"Haleem\", \"Baghara baingan\" and \"Kheema,\" while Hyderabadi day to day dishes see some commonalities with Telanganite Telugu food, with its use of tamarind, rice, and lentils, along with meat. Yogurt is a common addition to meals, as a way of tempering spiciness.\n\nTraditional clothing in India greatly varies across different parts of the country and is influenced by local culture, geography, climate and rural/urban settings. Popular styles of dress include draped garments such as sari and \"mekhela sador\" for women and dhoti or lungi or panche (in Kannada) for men. Stitched clothes are also popular such as churidar or \"salwar-kameez\" for women, with \"dupatta\" (long scarf) thrown over shoulder completing the outfit. Salwar is often loose fitting, while churidar is a tighter cut. The dastar, a headgear worn by Sikhs is common in Punjab.\n\nIndian women perfect their sense of charm and fashion with makeup and ornaments. Bindi, mehendi, earrings, bangles and other jewelry are common. On special occasions, such as marriage ceremonies and festivals, women may wear cheerful colours with various ornaments made with gold, silver or other regional stones and gems. Bindi is often an essential part of a Hindu woman's make up. Worn on their forehead, some consider the \"bindi\" as an auspicious mark. Traditionally, the red bindi was worn only by married Hindu women, and coloured bindi was worn by single women, but now all colours and glitter has become a part of women's fashion. Some women wear sindoor – a traditional red or orange-red powder (vermilion) in the parting of their hair (locally called \"mang\"). Sindoor is the traditional mark of a married woman for Hindus. Single Hindu women do not wear \"sindoor\"; neither do over 1 million Indian women from religions other than Hindu and agnostics/atheists who may be married. The make up and clothing styles differ regionally between the Hindu groups, and also by climate or religion, with Christians preferring Western and Muslim preferring the Arabic styles. For men, stitched versions include kurta-pyjama and European-style trousers and shirts. In urban and semi-urban centres, men and women of all religious backgrounds, can often be seen in jeans, trousers, shirts, suits, kurtas and variety of other fashions.\n\nThe Rigvedic Sanskrit is one of the oldest attestations of any Indo-Aryan languages, and one of the earliest attested members of the Indo-European languages. The discovery of Sanskrit by early European explorers of India led to the development of comparative Philology. The scholars of the 18th century were struck by the far reaching similarity of Sanskrit, both in grammar and vocabulary, to the classical languages of Europe. Intensive scientific studies that followed have established that Sanskrit and many Indian derivative languages belong to the family which includes English, German, French, Italian, Spanish, Celtic, Greek, Baltic, Armenian, Persian, Tocharian and other Indo-European languages.\n\nTamil, one of India's major classical language, descends from Proto-Dravidian languages spoken around the third millennium BCE in peninsular India. The earliest inscriptions of Tamil have been found on pottery dating back to 500 BC. Tamil literature has existed for over two thousand years and the earliest epigraphic records found date from around the 3rd century BCE.\nThe evolution of language within India may be distinguished over three periods: old, middle and modern Indo-Aryan. The classical form of old Indo-Aryan was \"sanskrit\" meaning polished, cultivated and correct, in distinction to \"Prakrit\" – the practical language of the migrating masses evolving without concern to proper pronunciation or grammar, the structure of language changing as those masses mingled, settled new lands and adopted words from people of other native languages. \"Prakrita\" became middle Indo-Aryan leading to \"Pali\" (the language of early Buddhists and Ashoka era in 200–300 BCE), \"Prakrit\" (the language of Jain philosophers) and \"Apabhramsa\" (the language blend at the final stage of middle Indo-Aryan). It is \"Apabhramsa\", scholars claim, that flowered into Hindi, Gujarati, Bengali, Marathi, Punjabi and many other languages now in use in India's north, east and west. All of these Indian languages have roots and structure similar to Sanskrit, to each other and to other Indo-European languages. Thus we have in India three thousand years of continuous linguistic history recorded and preserved in literary documents. This enables scholars to follow language evolution and observe how, by changes hardly noticeable from generation to generation, an original language alters into descendant languages that are now barely recognisable as the same.\nSanskrit has had a profound impact on the languages and literature of India. Hindi, India's most spoken language, is a \"Sanskritised register\" of the Khariboli dialect. In addition, all modern Indo-Aryan languages, Munda languages and Dravidian languages, have borrowed many words either directly from Sanskrit (\"tatsama\" words), or indirectly via middle Indo-Aryan languages (\"tadbhava\" words). Words originating in Sanskrit are estimated to constitute roughly fifty percent of the vocabulary of modern Indo-Aryan languages, and the literary forms of (Dravidian) Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada. Tamil, although to a slightly smaller extent, has also been significantly influenced by Sanskrit. Part of the Eastern Indo-Aryan languages, the Bengali language arose from the eastern Middle Indic languages and its roots are traced to the 5th-century BCE Ardhamagadhi language.\n\nAnother major Classical Dravidian language, Kannada is attested epigraphically from the mid-1st millennium AD, and literary Old Kannada flourished in the 9th- to 10th-century Rashtrakuta Dynasty. Pre-old Kannada (or \"Purava Hazhe-Gannada\") was the language of Banavasi in the early Common Era, the Satavahana and Kadamba periods and hence has a history of over 2000 years. The Ashoka rock edict found at Brahmagiri (dated 230 BCE) has been suggested to contain a word in identifiable Kannada.\n\nOdia is India's 6th classical language in addition to Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam. It is also one of the 22 official languages in the 8th schedule of Indian constitution. Oriya's importance to Indian culture, from ancient times, is evidenced by its presence in Ashoka's Rock Edict X, dated to be from 2nd century BC.\n\nIn addition to Indo-European and Dravidian languages, Austro-Asiatic and Tibeto-Burman languages are in use in India. The 2011 Linguistic Survey of India states that India has over 780 languages and 66 different scripts, with its state of Arunachal Pradesh with 90 languages.\n\nThe Mahābhārata and the Rāmāyaṇa are the oldest preserved and well-known epics of India. Versions have been adopted as the epics of Southeast Asian countries like Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia. The Ramayana consists of 24,000 verses in seven books (') and 500 cantos ('), and tells the story of Rama (an incarnation or Avatar of the Hindu preserver-god Vishnu), whose wife Sita is abducted by the demon king of Lanka, Ravana. This epic played a pivotal role in establishing the role of dhárma as a principal ideal guiding force for Hindu way of life. The earliest parts of the Mahabharata text date to 400 BC and is estimated to have reached its final form by the early Gupta period (c. 4th century AD). Other regional variations of these, as well as unrelated epics include the Tamil Ramavataram, Kannada \"Pampa Bharata\", Hindi \"Ramacharitamanasa\", and Malayalam \"Adhyathmaramayanam\". In addition to these two great Indian epics, there are The Five Great Epics of Tamil Literature composed in classical Tamil language — \"Manimegalai\", \"Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi\", \"Silappadikaram\", \"Valayapathi\" and \"Kundalakesi\".\n\nIndia has had a long romance with the art of dance. The Hindu Sanskrit texts \"Nātyaśāstra\" (Science of Dance) and \"Abhinaya Darpana\" (Mirror of Gesture) are estimated to be from 200 BCE to early centuries of the 1st millennium CE.\n\nThe Indian art of dance as taught in these ancient books, according to Ragini Devi, is the expression of inner beauty and the divine in man. It is a deliberate art, nothing is left to chance, each gesture seeks to communicate the ideas, each facial expression the emotions.\n\nIndian dance includes eight classical dance forms, many in narrative forms with mythological elements. The eight classical forms accorded classical dance status by India's \"National Academy of Music, Dance, and Drama\" are: \"bharatanatyam\" of the state of Tamil Nadu, \"kathak\" of Uttar Pradesh, \"kathakali\" and \"mohiniattam\" of Kerala, \"kuchipudi\" of Andhra Pradesh, \"yakshagana\" of Karnataka, \"manipuri\" of Manipur, \"odissi (orissi)\" of the state of Odisha and the \"sattriya\" of Assam.\n\nIn addition to the formal arts of dance, Indian regions have a strong free form, folksy dance tradition. Some of the folk dances include the \"bhangra\" of Punjab; the \"bihu\" of Assam; the zeliang of Nagaland; the Jhumair, Domkach, chhau of Jharkhand; the Ghumura Dance, Gotipua, Mahari dance and Dalkhai of Odisha; the qauwwalis, birhas and charkulas of Uttar Pradesh; the jat-jatin, nat-natin and saturi of Bihar; the \"ghoomar\" of Rajasthan and Haryana; the \"dandiya\" and \"garba\" of Gujarat; the kolattam of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana; the \"yakshagana\" of Karnataka; \"lavani\" of Maharashtra; \"Dekhnni\" of Goa. Recent developments include adoption of international dance forms particularly in the urban centres of India, and the extension of Indian classical dance arts by the Kerala Christian community, to tell stories from the Bible.\n\nIndian drama and theatre has a long history alongside its music and dance. Kalidasa's plays like Shakuntala and Meghadoota are some of the older dramas, following those of Bhasa. Kutiyattam of Kerala, is the only surviving specimen of the ancient Sanskrit theatre, thought to have originated around the beginning of the Common Era, and is officially recognised by UNESCO as a Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. It strictly follows the Natya Shastra. Nātyāchārya Māni Mādhava Chākyār is credited for reviving the age old drama tradition from extinction. He was known for mastery of Rasa Abhinaya. He started to perform the Kalidasa plays like \"Abhijñānaśākuntala\", \"Vikramorvaśīya\" and \"Mālavikāgnimitra\"; Bhasa's \"Swapnavāsavadatta\" and \"Pancharātra\"; Harsha's \"Nagananda\".\n\nMusic is an integral part of India's culture. Natyasastra, a 2000-year-old Sanskrit text, describes five systems of taxonomy to classify musical instruments. One of these ancient Indian systems classifies musical instruments into four groups according to four primary sources of vibration: strings, membranes, cymbals, and air. According to Reis Flora, this is similar to the Western theory of organology. Archeologists have also reported the discovery of a 3000-year-old, 20-key, carefully shaped polished basalt lithophone in the highlands of Odisha.\nThe oldest preserved examples of Indian music are the melodies of the \"Samaveda\" (1000 BC) that are still sung in certain Vedic Śrauta sacrifices; this is the earliest account of Indian musical hymns. It proposed a tonal structure consisting of seven notes, which were named, in descending order, as \"Krusht\", \"Pratham\", \"Dwitiya\", \"Tritiya\", \"Chaturth\", \"Mandra\" and \"Atiswār\". These refer to the notes of a flute, which was the only fixed frequency instrument. The Samaveda, and other Hindu texts, heavily influenced India's classical music tradition, which is known today in two distinct styles: Carnatic and Hindustani music. Both the Carnatic music and Hindustani music systems are based on the melodic base (known as Rāga), sung to a rhythmic cycle (known as Tāla); these principles were refined in the nātyaśāstra (200 BC) and the dattilam (300 AD).\n\nThe current music of India includes multiple varieties of religious, classical, folk, filmi, rock and pop music and dance. The appeal of traditional classical music and dance is on the rapid decline, especially among the younger generation.\n\nProminent contemporary Indian musical forms included filmi and Indipop. Filmi refers to the wide range of music written and performed for mainstream Indian cinema, primarily Bollywood, and accounts for more than 70 percent of all music sales in the country. Indipop is one of the most popular contemporary styles of Indian music which is either a fusion of Indian folk, classical or Sufi music with Western musical traditions.\n\nCave paintings from Ajanta, Bagh, Ellora and Sittanavasal and temple paintings testify to a love of naturalism. Most early and medieval art in India is Hindu, Buddhist or Jain. A freshly made coloured floor design (Rangoli) is still a common sight outside the doorstep of many (mostly South Indian) Indian homes. Raja Ravi Varma is one of the classical painters from medieval India.\n\nPattachitra, Madhubani painting, Mysore painting, Rajput painting, Tanjore painting and Mughal painting are some notable Genres of Indian Art; while Nandalal Bose, M. F. Husain, S. H. Raza, Geeta Vadhera, Jamini Roy and B. Venkatappa are some modern painters. Among the present day artists, Atul Dodiya, Bose Krishnamacnahri, Devajyoti Ray and Shibu Natesan represent a new era of Indian art where global art shows direct amalgamation with Indian classical styles. These recent artists have acquired international recognition. Jehangir Art Gallery in Mumbai, Mysore Palace has on display a few good Indian paintings.\n\nThe first sculptures in India date back to the Indus Valley civilisation, where stone and bronze figures have been discovered. Later, as Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism developed further, India produced some extremely intricate bronzes as well as temple carvings. Some huge shrines, such as the one at Ellora were not constructed by using blocks but carved out of solid rock.\n\nSculptures produced in the northwest, in stucco, schist, or clay, display a very strong blend of Indian and Classical Hellenistic or possibly even Greco-Roman influence. The pink sandstone sculptures of Mathura evolved almost simultaneously. During the Gupta period (4th to 6th centuries) sculpture reached a very high standard in execution and delicacy in modeling. These styles and others elsewhere in India evolved leading to classical Indian art that contributed to Buddhist and Hindu sculpture throughout Southeast Central and East Asia.\n\nIndian architecture encompasses a multitude of expressions over space and time, constantly absorbing new ideas. The result is an evolving range of architectural production that nonetheless retains a certain amount of continuity across history. Some of its earliest production are found in the Indus Valley Civilisation (2600–1900 BC) which is characterised by well-planned cities and houses. Religion and kingship do not seem to have played an important role in the planning and layout of these towns.\nDuring the period of the Mauryan and Gupta empires and their successors, several Buddhist architectural complexes, such as the caves of Ajanta and Ellora and the monumental Sanchi Stupa were built. Later on, South India produced several Hindu temples like Chennakesava Temple at Belur, the Hoysaleswara Temple at Halebidu, and the Kesava Temple at Somanathapura, Brihadeeswara Temple, Thanjavur built by Raja Raja Chola, the Sun Temple, Konark, Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple at Srirangam, and the Buddha stupa (Chinna Lanja dibba and Vikramarka kota dibba) at Bhattiprolu. Rajput kingdoms oversaw the construction of Khajuraho Temple Complex, Chittor Fort and Chaturbhuj Temple, etc. during their reign. Angkor Wat, Borobudur and other Buddhist and Hindu temples indicate strong Indian influence on South East Asian architecture, as they are built in styles almost identical to traditional Indian religious buildings.\n\nThe traditional system of Vaastu Shastra serves as India's version of Feng Shui, influencing town planning, architecture, and ergonomics. It is unclear which system is older, but they contain certain similarities. Feng Shui is more commonly used throughout the world. Though Vastu is conceptually similar to Feng Shui in that it also tries to harmonise the flow of energy, (also called life-force or Prana in Sanskrit and Chi/Ki in Chinese/Japanese), through the house, it differs in the details, such as the exact directions in which various objects, rooms, materials, etc. are to be placed.\n\nWith the advent of Islamic influence from the west, Indian architecture was adapted to allow the traditions of the new religion, creating the Indo-Islamic style of architecture. The Qutb complex, a group of monuments constructed by successive sultanas of the Delhi Sultanate is one of the earliest examples. Fatehpur Sikri, Taj Mahal, Gol Gumbaz, Red Fort of Delhi and Charminar are creations of this era, and are often used as the stereotypical symbols of India.\n\nThe colonial rule of the British Empire saw the development of Indo-Saracenic style, and mixing of several other styles, such as European Gothic. The Victoria Memorial and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus are notable examples.\n\nIndian architecture has influenced eastern and southeastern Asia, due to the spread of Buddhism. A number of Indian architectural features such as the temple mound or stupa, temple spire or shikhara, temple tower or pagoda and temple gate or torana, have become famous symbols of Asian culture, used extensively in East Asia and South East Asia. The central spire is also sometimes called a vimanam. The southern temple gate, or gopuram is noted for its intricacy and majesty.\n\nContemporary Indian architecture is more cosmopolitan. Cities are extremely compact and densely populated. Mumbai's Nariman Point is famous for its Art Deco buildings. Recent creations such as the Lotus Temple, Golden Pagoda and Akshardham, and the various modern urban developments of India like Bhubaneswar and Chandigarh, are notable.\n\nField hockey was considered to be the national game of India, but this has been recently denied by the Government of India, clarifying on a Right to Information Act (RTI) filed that India has not declared any sport as the national game. At a time when it was especially popular, the India national field hockey team won the 1975 Men's Hockey World Cup, and 8 gold, 1 silver, and 2 bronze medals at the Olympic Games. However, field hockey in India no longer has the following that it once did.\n\nCricket is considered the most popular sport in India. The India national cricket team won the 1983 Cricket World Cup, the 2011 Cricket World Cup, the 2007 ICC World Twenty20, the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy and shared the 2002 ICC Champions Trophy with Sri Lanka. Domestic competitions include the Ranji Trophy, the Duleep Trophy, the Deodhar Trophy, the Irani Trophy and the Challenger Series. In addition, BCCI conducts the Indian Premier League, a Twenty20 competition.\n\nFootball is popular in the Indian state of West Bengal. The city of Kolkata is the home to the largest stadium in India, and the second largest stadium in the world by capacity, Salt Lake Stadium. The city of joy is a centre of football activity in India and is home to top national clubs such as Mohun Bagan A.C., Kingfisher East Bengal F.C., Prayag United S.C., and the Mohammedan Sporting Club.\n\nChess is commonly believed to have originated in northwestern India during the Gupta empire, where its early form in the 6th century was known as \"chaturanga\". Other games which originated in India and continue to remain popular in wide parts of northern India include Kabaddi, Gilli-danda, and Kho kho. Traditional southern Indian games include Snake boat race and Kuttiyum kolum.\n\nIn 2011, India inaugurated a privately built Buddh International Circuit, its first motor racing circuit. The 5.14-kilometre circuit is in Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, near Delhi. The first Formula One Indian Grand Prix event was hosted here in October 2011.\n\nOne of the best known forms of ancient Indian martial arts is the \"Kalarippayattu\" from Kerala. This ancient fighting style originated in southern India in the 12th century BCE and is regarded as one of the oldest surviving martial arts. In this form martial arts, various stages of physical training include ayurvedic massage with sesame oil to impart suppleness to the body (\"uzichil\"); a series of sharp body movements so as to gain control over various parts of the body (\"miapayattu\"); and, complex sword fighting techniques (\"paliyankam\").Silambam, which was developed around 200 AD, traces its roots to the Sangam period in southern India. Silambam is unique among Indian martial arts because it uses complex footwork techniques (\"kaaladi\"), including a variety of spinning styles. A bamboo staff is used as the main weapon. The ancient Tamil Sangam literature mentions that between 400 BCE and 600 CE, soldiers from southern India received special martial arts training which revolved primarily around the use of spear (\"vel\"), sword (\"val\") and shield (\"kedaham\").\n\nAmong eastern states, \"Paika akhada\" is a martial art found in Odisha. Paika akhada, or paika akhara, roughly translates as \"warrior gymnasium\" or \"warrior school\". In ancient times, these were training schools of the peasant militia. Today's paika akhada teach physical exercises and martial arts in addition to the paika dance, a performance art with rhythmic movements and weapons being hit in time to the drum. It incorporates acrobatic maneuvres and use of the khanda (straight sword), patta (guantlet-sword), sticks, and other weapons.\n\nIn northern India, the \"musti yuddha\" evolved in 1100 AD and focussed on mental, physical and spiritual training. In addition, the \"Dhanur Veda\" tradition was an influential fighting arts style which considered the bow and the arrow to be the supreme weapons. The \"Dhanur Veda\" was first described in the 5th-century BCE Viṣṇu Purāṇa and is also mentioned in both of the major ancient Indian epics, the \"Rāmāyaṇa\" and \"Mahābhārata\". A distinctive factor of Indian martial arts is the heavy emphasis laid on meditation (\"dhyāna\") as a tool to remove fear, doubt and anxiety.\n\nIndian martial arts techniques have had a profound impact on other martial arts styles across Asia. The 3rd-century BCE \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" taught how to meditate single-mindedly on points located inside one's body, which was later used in martial arts, while various mudra finger movements were taught in Yogacara Buddhism. These elements of yoga, as well as finger movements in the \"nata\" dances, were later incorporated into various martial arts. According to some historical accounts, the South Indian Buddhist monk Bodhidharma was one of the main founders of the Shaolin Kungfu.\n\nIndian television started off in 1959 in New Delhi with tests for educational telecasts. Indian small screen programming started off in the mid-1970s. At that time there was only one national channel Doordarshan, which was government owned. 1982 saw revolution in TV programming in India, with the New Delhi Asian games, India saw the colour version of TV, that year. The Ramayana and Mahabharat were some among the popular television series produced. By the late 1980s more and more people started to own television sets. Though there was a single channel, television programming had reached saturation. Hence the government opened up another channel which had part national programming and part regional. This channel was known as DD 2 later DD Metro. Both channels were broadcast terrestrially.\n\nIn 1991, the government liberated its markets, opening them up to cable television. Since then, there has been a spurt in the number of channels available. Today, Indian small screen is a huge industry by itself, and has thousands of programmes in all the states of India. The small screen has produced numerous celebrities of their own kind some even attaining national fame for themselves. TV soaps are extremely popular with housewives as well as working women. Some lesser known actors have found success in Bollywood. Indian TV now has many of the same channels as Western TV, including stations such as Cartoon Network, Nickelodeon, HBO, FX, and MTV India.\n\n\"Bollywood\" is the informal name given to the popular Mumbai-based film industry in India. Bollywood and the other major cinematic hubs (in Bengali Cinema, Oriya film industry, Assamese, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Tamil, Punjabi and Telugu) constitute the broader Indian film industry, whose output is considered to be the largest in the world in terms of number of films produced and number of tickets sold.\n\nIndia has produced many cinema-makers like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, J. C. Daniel, Kasinathuni Viswanath, Ram Gopal Varma, Bapu, Ritwik Ghatak, Guru Dutt,Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Shaji N. Karun, Girish Kasaravalli, Shekhar Kapoor, Hrishikesh Mukherjee, Nagraj Manjule, Shyam Benegal, Shankar Nag, Girish Karnad, G. V. Iyer, Mani Ratnam, and K. Balachander (see also: Indian film directors). With the opening up of the economy in recent years and consequent exposure to world cinema, audience tastes have been changing. In addition, multiplexes have mushroomed in most cities, changing the revenue patterns.\n\nIndia's diversity has inspired many writers to pen their perceptions of the country's culture. These writings paint a complex and often conflicting picture of the culture of India. India is one of the most ethnically and religiously diverse countries in the world. The concept of \"Indian culture\" is a very complex and complicated matter. Indian citizens are divided into various ethnic, religious, caste, linguistic and regional groups, making the realities of \"Indianness\" extremely complicated. This is why the conception of Indian identity poses certain difficulties and presupposes a series of assumptions about what concisely the expression \"Indian\" means. However, despite this vast and heterogeneous composition, the creation of some sort of typical or shared Indian culture results from some inherent internal forces (such as a robust Constitution, universal adult franchise, flexible federal structure, secular educational policy, etc.) and from certain historical events (such as Indian Independence Movement, Partition, wars against Pakistan, etc.)\n\nAccording to industry consultant Eugene M. Makar, for example, traditional Indian culture is defined by a relatively strict social hierarchy. He also mentions that from an early age, children are reminded of their roles and places in society. This is reinforced, Makar notes, by the way many believe gods and spirits have an integral and functional role in determining their life. Several differences such as religion divide the culture. However, a far more powerful division is the traditional Hindu bifurcation into non-polluting and polluting occupations. Strict social taboos have governed these groups for thousands of years, claims Makar. In recent years, particularly in cities, some of these lines have blurred and sometimes even disappeared. He writes important family relations extend as far as 1 gotra, the mainly patrilinear lineage or clan assigned to a Hindu at birth. In rural areas & sometimes in urban areas as well, it is common that three or four generations of the family live under the same roof. The patriarch often resolves family issues.\n\nOthers have a different perception of Indian culture. According to an interview with C.K. Prahalad by Des Dearlove, author of many best selling business books, modern India is a country of very diverse cultures with many languages, religions and traditions. Children begin by coping and learning to accept and assimilate in this diversity. Prahalad – who was born in India and grew up there – claimed, in the interview, that Indians, like everyone else in the world, want to be treated as unique, as individuals, want to express themselves and seek innovation. In another report, Nancy Lockwood of Society for Human Resource Management, the world's largest human resources association with members in 140 countries, writes that in the past two decades or so, social change in India is in dramatic contrast to the expectations from traditional Indian culture. These changes have led to Indian families giving education opportunities to girls, accepting women working outside home, pursuing a career, and opening the possibility for women to attain managerial roles in corporate India. Lockwood claims that change is slow, yet the scale of cultural change can be sensed from the fact that of India's 397 million workers, 124 million are now women. The issues in India with women empowerment are similar to those elsewhere in the world.\n\nAccording to Amartya Sen, the India born Nobel Laureate in Economics, the culture of modern India is a complex blend of its historical traditions, influences from the effects of colonialism over centuries and current Western culture – both collaterally and dialectically. Sen observes that external images of India in the West often tend to emphasise the difference – real or imagined – between India and the West. There is a considerable inclination in the Western countries to distance and highlight the differences in Indian culture from the mainstream of Western traditions, rather than discover and show similarities. Western writers and media usually misses, in important ways, crucial aspects of Indian culture and traditions. The deep-seated heterogeneity of Indian traditions, in different parts of India, is neglected in these homogenised description of India. The perceptions of Indian culture, by those who weren't born and raised in India, tend to be one of at least three categories, writes Sen:\n\nThe curatorial approach, one inspired by systematic curiosity for the cultural diversity of India within India, is mostly absent.\n\nSusan Bayly, in her book, observes that there is considerable dispute in India and Orientalist scholars on perceived Indian culture. She acknowledges that many dispute claims of pervasiveness of caste and strict social hierarchy in modern India. Bayly notes that much of the Indian subcontinent was populated by people for whom the formal distinctions of caste and strict social hierarchies were of only limited importance in their lifestyles.\n\nAccording to Rosser, an American sociologist, Americans of South Asian origins feel the Western perception of the culture of India has numerous stereotypes. Rosser notes that the discourse in much of the United States about the culture of India is rarely devoted to independent India. People quickly make sweeping and flawed metaphysical assumptions about its religion and culture, but are far more circumspect when evaluating civil society and political culture in modern India. It is as if the value of South Asia resides only in its ancient contributions to human knowledge whereas its pathetic attempts to modernise or develop are to be winked at and patronised. Rosser conducted numerous interviews and summarised the comments. The study reports a stark contrast between Western perceptions of the culture of India, versus the direct experience of the interviewed people. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "20756967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20756967", "title": "Cyborg", "text": "Cyborg\n\nA cyborg () short for \"cybernetic organism\") is a being with both organic and biomechatronic body parts. The term was coined in 1960 by Manfred Clynes and Nathan S. Kline.\n\nThe term cyborg is not the same thing as bionic, biorobot or android; it applies to an organism that has restored function or enhanced abilities due to the integration of some artificial component or technology that relies on some sort of feedback. While cyborgs are commonly thought of as mammals, including humans, they might also conceivably be any kind of organism.\n\nD. S. Halacy's \"Cyborg: Evolution of the Superman\" in 1965 featured an introduction which spoke of a \"new frontier\" that was \"not merely space, but more profoundly the relationship between 'inner space' to 'outer space' – a bridge...between mind and matter.\"\n\nIn popular culture, some cyborgs may be represented as visibly mechanical (e.g., Cyborg from DC Comics, the Cybermen in the \"Doctor Who\" franchise or The Borg from \"Star Trek\" or Darth Vader from \"Star Wars\") or as almost indistinguishable from humans (e.g., the \"Human\" Cylons from the re-imagining of \"Battlestar Galactica\", etc.). Cyborgs in fiction often play up a human contempt for over-dependence on technology, particularly when used for war, and when used in ways that seem to threaten free will. Cyborgs are also often portrayed with physical or mental abilities far exceeding a human counterpart (military forms may have inbuilt weapons, among other things), such as Robocop.\n\nAccording to some definitions of the term, the physical attachments humanity has with even the most basic technologies have already made them cyborgs. In a typical example, a human with an artificial cardiac pacemaker or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator would be considered a cyborg, since these devices measure voltage potentials in the body, perform signal processing, and can deliver electrical stimuli, using this synthetic feedback mechanism to keep that person alive. Implants, especially cochlear implants, that combine mechanical modification with any kind of feedback response are also cyborg enhancements. Some theorists cite such modifications as contact lenses, hearing aids, or intraocular lenses as examples of fitting humans with technology to enhance their biological capabilities. As cyborgs currently are on the rise some theorists argue there is a need to develop new definitions of aging and for instance a bio-techno-social definition of aging has been suggested.\n\nThe term is also used to address human-technology mixtures in the abstract. This includes not only commonly used pieces of technology such as phones, computers, the Internet, etc. but also artifacts that may not popularly be considered technology; for example, pen and paper, and speech and language. When augmented with these technologies and connected in communication with people in other times and places, a person becomes capable of much more than they were before. An example is a computer, which gains power by using Internet protocols to connect with other computers. Another example, which is becoming more and more relevant is a bot-assisted human or human-assisted-bot, used to target social media with likes and shares. Cybernetic technologies include highways, pipes, electrical wiring, buildings, electrical plants, libraries, and other infrastructure that we hardly notice, but which are critical parts of the cybernetics that we work within.\n\nBruce Sterling in his universe of Shaper/Mechanist suggested an idea of alternative cyborg called Lobster, which is made not by using internal implants, but by using an external shell (e.g. a Powered Exoskeleton). Unlike human cyborgs that appear human externally while being synthetic internally (e.g. the Bishop type in the Alien franchise), Lobster looks inhuman externally but contains a human internally (e.g. Elysium, RoboCop). The computer game \"\" prominently featured cyborgs called Omar, where \"Omar\" is a Russian translation of the word \"Lobster\" (since the Omar are of Russian origin in the game).\n\nThe concept of a man-machine mixture was widespread in science fiction before World War II. As early as 1843, Edgar Allan Poe described a man with extensive prostheses in the short story \"The Man That Was Used Up\". In 1911, Jean de La Hire introduced the Nyctalope, a science fiction hero who was perhaps the first literary cyborg, in \"Le Mystère des XV\" (later translated as \"The Nyctalope on Mars\"). Edmond Hamilton presented space explorers with a mixture of organic and machine parts in his novel \"The Comet Doom\" in 1928. He later featured the talking, living brain of an old scientist, Simon Wright, floating around in a transparent case, in all the adventures of his famous hero, Captain Future. He uses the term explicitly in the 1962 short story, \"After a Judgment Day,\" to describe the \"mechanical analogs\" called \"Charlies,\" explaining that \"[c]yborgs, they had been called from the first one in the 1960s...cybernetic organisms.\" In the short story \"No Woman Born\" in 1944, C. L. Moore wrote of Deirdre, a dancer, whose body was burned completely and whose brain was placed in a faceless but beautiful and supple mechanical body. \n\nThe term was coined by Manfred E. Clynes and Nathan S. Kline in 1960 to refer to their conception of an enhanced human being who could survive in extraterrestrial environments:\n\nTheir concept was the outcome of thinking about the need for an intimate relationship between human and machine as the new frontier of space exploration was beginning to open up. A designer of physiological instrumentation and electronic data-processing systems, Clynes was the chief research scientist in the Dynamic Simulation Laboratory at Rockland State Hospital in New York.\n\nThe term first appears in print five months earlier when \"The New York Times\" reported on the Psychophysiological Aspects of Space Flight Symposium where Clynes and Kline first presented their paper.\n\nA book titled \"Cyborg: Digital Destiny and Human Possibility in the Age of the Wearable Computer\" was published by Doubleday in 2001. Some of the ideas in the book were incorporated into the 35 mm motion picture film \"Cyberman\".\n\nCyborg tissues structured with carbon nanotubes and plant or fungal cells have been used in artificial tissue engineering to produce new materials for mechanical and electrical uses.\nThe work was presented by Di Giacomo and Maresca at MRS 2013 Spring conference on Apr, 3rd, talk number SS4.04. The cyborg obtained is inexpensive, light and has unique mechanical properties. It can also be shaped in desired forms. Cells combined with MWCNTs co-precipitated as a specific aggregate of cells and nanotubes that formed a viscous material. Likewise, dried cells still acted as a stable matrix for the MWCNT network. When observed by optical microscopy the material resembled an artificial \"tissue\" composed of highly packed cells. The effect of cell drying is manifested by their \"ghost cell\" appearance. A rather specific physical interaction between MWCNTs and cells was observed by electron microscopy suggesting that the cell wall (the most outer part of fungal and plant cells) may play a major active role in establishing a CNTs network and its stabilization. This novel material can be used in a wide range of electronic applications from heating to sensing and has the potential to open important new avenues to be exploited in electromagnetic shielding for radio frequency electronics and aerospace technology. In particular using Candida albicans cells cyborg tissue materials with temperature sensing properties have been reported.\n\nIn current prosthetic applications, the C-Leg system developed by Otto Bock HealthCare is used to replace a human leg that has been amputated because of injury or illness. The use of sensors in the artificial C-Leg aids in walking significantly by attempting to replicate the user's natural gait, as it would be prior to amputation. Prostheses like the C-Leg and the more advanced iLimb are considered by some to be the first real steps towards the next generation of real-world cyborg applications. Additionally cochlear implants and magnetic implants which provide people with a sense that they would not otherwise have had can additionally be thought of as creating cyborgs.\n\nIn vision science, direct brain implants have been used to treat non-congenital (acquired) blindness. One of the first scientists to come up with a working brain interface to restore sight was private researcher William Dobelle.\nDobelle's first prototype was implanted into \"Jerry\", a man blinded in adulthood, in 1978. A single-array BCI containing 68 electrodes was implanted onto Jerry's visual cortex and succeeded in producing phosphenes, the sensation of seeing light. The system included cameras mounted on glasses to send signals to the implant. Initially, the implant allowed Jerry to see shades of grey in a limited field of vision at a low frame-rate. This also required him to be hooked up to a two-ton mainframe, but shrinking electronics and faster computers made his artificial eye more portable and now enable him to perform simple tasks unassisted.\n\nIn 1997, Philip Kennedy, a scientist and physician, created the world's first human cyborg from Johnny Ray, a Vietnam veteran who suffered a stroke. Ray's body, as doctors called it, was \"locked in\". Ray wanted his old life back so he agreed to Kennedy's experiment. Kennedy embedded an implant he designed (and named \"neurotrophic electrode\") near the part of Ray's brain so that Ray would be able to have some movement back in his body. The surgery went successfully, but in 2002, Johnny Ray died.\n\nIn 2002, Canadian Jens Naumann, also blinded in adulthood, became the first in a series of 16 paying patients to receive Dobelle's second generation implant, marking one of the earliest commercial uses of BCIs. The second generation device used a more sophisticated implant enabling better mapping of phosphenes into coherent vision. Phosphenes are spread out across the visual field in what researchers call the starry-night effect. Immediately after his implant, Naumann was able to use his imperfectly restored vision to drive slowly around the parking area of the research institute.\n\nIn contrast to replacement technologies, in 2002, under the heading Project Cyborg, a British scientist, Kevin Warwick, had an array of 100 electrodes fired into his nervous system in order to link his nervous system into the internet to investigate enhancement possibilities. With this in place Warwick successfully carried out a series of experiments including extending his nervous system over the internet to control a robotic hand, also receiving feedback from the fingertips in order to control the hand's grip. This was a form of extended sensory input. Subsequently, he investigated ultrasonic input in order to remotely detect the distance to objects. Finally, with electrodes also implanted into his wife's nervous system, they conducted the first direct electronic communication experiment between the nervous systems of two humans.<ref name=\"doi10.1001/archneur.60.10.1369|noedit\"></ref>\n\nSince 2004, British artist Neil Harbisson has had a cyborg antenna implanted in his head that allows him to extend his perception of colors beyond the human visual spectrum through vibrations in his skull. His antenna was included within his 2004 passport photograph which has been claimed to confirm his cyborg status. In 2012 at TEDGlobal, Harbisson explained that he started to feel cyborg when he noticed that the software and his brain had united and given him an extra sense. Neil Harbisson is a co-founder of the Cyborg Foundation (2004)\n\nFurthermore many cyborgs with multifunctional microchips injected into their hand are known to exist. With the chips they are able swipe cards, open or unlock doors, operate devices such as printers or, with some using a cryptocurrency, buy products, such as drinks, with a wave of the hand.\n\nbodyNET is an application of human-electronic interaction currently in development by researchers from Stanford University. The technology is based on stretchable semiconductor materials (Elastronic). According to their article in Nature (journal), the technology is composed of smart devices, screens, and a network of sensors that can be implanted into the body, woven into the skin or worn as clothes. It has been suggested, that this platform can potentially replace the smartphone in the future.\n\nThe US-based company Backyard Brains released what they refer to as \"The world's first commercially available cyborg\" called the RoboRoach. The project started as a University of Michigan biomedical engineering student senior design project in 2010 and was launched as an available beta product on 25 February 2011. The RoboRoach was officially released into production via a TED talk at the TED Global conference, and via the crowdsourcing website Kickstarter in 2013, the kit allows students to use microstimulation to momentarily control the movements of a walking cockroach (left and right) using a bluetooth-enabled smartphone as the controller. Other groups have developed cyborg insects, including researchers at North Carolina State University, UC Berkeley, and Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, but the RoboRoach was the first kit available to the general public and was funded by the National Institute of Mental Health as a device to serve as a teaching aid to promote an interest in neuroscience. Several animal welfare organizations including the RSPCA and PETA have expressed concerns about the ethics and welfare of animals in this project.\n\nIn medicine, there are two important and different types of cyborgs: the restorative and the enhanced. Restorative technologies \"restore lost function, organs, and limbs\". The key aspect of restorative cyborgization is the repair of broken or missing processes to revert to a healthy or average level of function. There is no enhancement to the original faculties and processes that were lost.\n\nOn the contrary, the enhanced cyborg \"follows a principle, and it is the principle of optimal performance: maximising output (the information or modifications obtained) and minimising input (the energy expended in the process)\". Thus, the enhanced cyborg intends to exceed normal processes or even gain new functions that were not originally present.\n\nAlthough prostheses in general supplement lost or damaged body parts with the integration of a mechanical artifice, bionic implants in medicine allow model organs or body parts to mimic the original function more closely. Michael Chorost wrote a memoir of his experience with cochlear implants, or bionic ear, titled \"Rebuilt: How Becoming Part Computer Made Me More Human.\" Jesse Sullivan became one of the first people to operate a fully robotic limb through a nerve-muscle graft, enabling him a complex range of motions beyond that of previous prosthetics. By 2004, a fully functioning artificial heart was developed. The continued technological development of bionic and nanotechnologies begins to raise the question of enhancement, and of the future possibilities for cyborgs which surpass the original functionality of the biological model. The ethics and desirability of \"enhancement prosthetics\" have been debated; their proponents include the transhumanist movement, with its belief that new technologies can assist the human race in developing beyond its present, normative limitations such as aging and disease, as well as other, more general incapacities, such as limitations on speed, strength, endurance, and intelligence. Opponents of the concept describe what they believe to be biases which propel the development and acceptance of such technologies; namely, a bias towards functionality and efficiency that may compel assent to a view of human people which de-emphasizes as defining characteristics actual manifestations of humanity and personhood, in favor of definition in terms of upgrades, versions, and utility.\n\nA brain-computer interface, or BCI, provides a direct path of communication from the brain to an external device, effectively creating a cyborg. Research of Invasive BCIs, which utilize electrodes implanted directly into the grey matter of the brain, has focused on restoring damaged eyesight in the blind and providing functionality to paralyzed people, most notably those with severe cases, such as Locked-In syndrome. This technology could enable people who are missing a limb or are in a wheelchair the power to control the devices that aide them through neural signals sent from the brain implants directly to computers or the devices. It is possible that this technology will also eventually be used with healthy people.\n\nDeep brain stimulation is a neurological surgical procedure used for therapeutic purposes. This process has aided in treating patients diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Tourette syndrome, epilepsy, chronic headaches, and mental disorders. After the patient is unconscious, through anesthesia, brain pacemakers or electrodes, are implanted into the region of the brain where the cause of the disease is present. The region of the brain is then stimulated by bursts of electric current to disrupt the oncoming surge of seizures. Like all invasive procedures, deep brain stimulation may put the patient at a higher risk. However, there have been more improvements in recent years with deep brain stimulation than any available drug treatment.\n\nRetinal implants are another form of cyborgization in medicine. The theory behind retinal stimulation to restore vision to people suffering from retinitis pigmentosa and vision loss due to aging (conditions in which people have an abnormally low number of ganglion cells) is that the retinal implant and electrical stimulation would act as a substitute for the missing ganglion cells (cells which connect the eye to the brain.)\n\nWhile work to perfect this technology is still being done, there have already been major advances in the use of electronic stimulation of the retina to allow the eye to sense patterns of light. A specialized camera is worn by the subject, such as on the frames of their glasses, which converts the image into a pattern of electrical stimulation. A chip located in the user's eye would then electrically stimulate the retina with this pattern by exciting certain nerve endings which transmit the image to the optic centers of the brain and the image would then appear to the user. If technological advances proceed as planned this technology may be used by thousands of blind people and restore vision to most of them.\n\nA similar process has been created to aide people who have lost their vocal cords. This experimental device would do away with previously used robotic sounding voice simulators. The transmission of sound would start with a surgery to redirect the nerve that controls the voice and sound production to a muscle in the neck, where a nearby sensor would be able to pick up its electrical signals. The signals would then move to a processor which would control the timing and pitch of a voice simulator. That simulator would then vibrate producing a multitonal sound which could be shaped into words by the mouth.\n\nAn article published in \"Nature Materials\" in 2012 reported a research on \"cyborg tissues\" (engineered human tissues with embedded three-dimensional mesh of nanoscale wires), with possible medical implications.\n\nIn 2014, researchers from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Washington University in St. Louis had developed a device that could keep a heart beating endlessly. By using 3D printing and computer modeling these scientist developed an electronic membrane that could successfully replace pacemakers. The device utilizes a \"spider-web like network of sensors and electrodes\" to monitor and maintain a normal heart-rate with electrical stimuli. Unlike traditional pacemakers that are similar from patient to patient, the elastic heart glove is made custom by using high-resolution imaging technology. The first prototype was created to fit a rabbit's heart, operating the organ in an oxygen and nutrient-rich solution. The stretchable material and circuits of the apparatus were first constructed by Professor John A. Rogers in which the electrodes are arranged in a s-shape design to allow them to expand and bend without breaking. Although the device is only currently used as a research tool to study changes in heart rate, in the future the membrane may serve as a safeguard from heart attacks.\n\nMilitary organizations' research has recently focused on the utilization of cyborg animals for the purposes of a supposed tactical advantage. DARPA has announced its interest in developing \"cyborg insects\" to transmit data from sensors implanted into the insect during the pupal stage. The insect's motion would be controlled from a Micro-Electro-Mechanical System (MEMS) and could conceivably survey an environment or detect explosives and gas. Similarly, DARPA is developing a neural implant to remotely control the movement of sharks. The shark's unique senses would then be exploited to provide data feedback in relation to enemy ship movement or underwater explosives.\n\nIn 2006, researchers at Cornell University invented a new surgical procedure to implant artificial structures into insects during their metamorphic development. The first insect cyborgs, moths with integrated electronics in their thorax, were demonstrated by the same researchers. The initial success of the techniques has resulted in increased research and the creation of a program called Hybrid-Insect-MEMS, HI-MEMS. Its goal, according to DARPA's Microsystems Technology Office, is to develop \"tightly coupled machine-insect interfaces by placing micro-mechanical systems inside the insects during the early stages of metamorphosis\".\n\nThe use of neural implants has recently been attempted, with success, on cockroaches. Surgically applied electrodes were put on the insect, which were remotely controlled by a human. The results, although sometimes different, basically showed that the cockroach could be controlled by the impulses it received through the electrodes. DARPA is now funding this research because of its obvious beneficial applications to the military and other areas\n\nIn 2009 at the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Micro-electronic mechanical systems (MEMS) conference in Italy, researchers demonstrated the first \"wireless\" flying-beetle cyborg. Engineers at the University of California at Berkeley have pioneered the design of a \"remote controlled beetle\", funded by the DARPA HI-MEMS Program. Filmed evidence of this can be viewed here. This was followed later that year by the demonstration of wireless control of a \"lift-assisted\" moth-cyborg.\n\nEventually researchers plan to develop HI-MEMS for dragonflies, bees, rats and pigeons. For the HI-MEMS cybernetic bug to be considered a success, it must fly from a starting point, guided via computer into a controlled landing within of a specific end point. Once landed, the cybernetic bug must remain in place.\n\nIn 2016 the first cyborg Olympics were celebrated in Zurich Switzerland. Cybathlon 2016 were the first Olympics for cyborgs and the first worldwide and official celebration of cyborg sports. In this event, 16 teams of people with disabilities used technological developments to turn themselves into cyborg athletes. There were six different events and its competitors used and controlled advanced technologies such as powered prosthetic legs and arms, robotic exoskeletons, bikes and motorized wheelchairs.\n\nIf on one hand this was already a remarkable improvement, as it allowed disabled people to compete and showed the several technological enhancements that are already making a difference, on the other hand it showed that there is still a long way to go. For instance, the exoskeleton race still required its participants to stand up from a chair and sit down, navigate a slalom and other simple activities such as walk over stepping stones and climb up and down stairs. Despite the simplicity of these activities, 8 of the 16 teams that participated in the event drop of before the start.\n\nNonetheless, one of the main goals of this event and such simple activities is to show how technological enhancements and advanced prosthetic can make a difference in peoples' lives. The next Cybathlon is expected to occur in 2020\n\nThe concept of the cyborg is often associated with science fiction. However, many artists have tried to create public awareness of cybernetic organisms; these can range from paintings to installations. Some artists who create such works are Neil Harbisson, Moon Ribas, Patricia Piccinini, Steve Mann, Orlan, H. R. Giger, Lee Bul, Wafaa Bilal, Tim Hawkinson and Stelarc.\n\nStelarc is a performance artist who has visually probed and acoustically amplified his body. He uses medical instruments, prosthetics, robotics, virtual reality systems, the Internet and biotechnology to explore alternate, intimate and involuntary interfaces with the body. He has made three films of the inside of his body and has performed with a third hand and a virtual arm. Between 1976–1988 he completed 25 body suspension performances with hooks into the skin. For 'Third Ear' he surgically constructed an extra ear within his arm that was internet enabled, making it a publicly accessible acoustical organ for people in other places. He is presently performing as his avatar from his second life site.\n\nTim Hawkinson promotes the idea that bodies and machines are coming together as one, where human features are combined with technology to create the Cyborg. Hawkinson's piece \"Emoter\" presented how society is now dependent on technology.\n\nWafaa Bilal is an Iraqi-American performance artist who had a small 10 megapixel digital camera surgically implanted into the back of his head, part of a project entitled 3rd I. For one year, beginning 15 December 2010, an image is captured once per minute 24 hours a day and streamed live to and the Mathaf: Arab Museum of Modern Art. The site also displays Bilal's location via GPS. Bilal says that the reason why he put the camera in the back of the head was to make an \"allegorical statement about the things we don't see and leave behind.\" As a professor at NYU, this project has raised privacy issues, and so Bilal has been asked to ensure that his camera does not take photographs in NYU buildings.\n\nMachines are becoming more ubiquitous in the artistic process itself, with computerized drawing pads replacing pen and paper, and drum machines becoming nearly as popular as human drummers. This is perhaps most notable in generative art and music. Composers such as Brian Eno have developed and utilized software which can build entire musical scores from a few basic mathematical parameters.\n\nScott Draves is a generative artist whose work is explicitly described as a \"cyborg mind\". His Electric Sheep project generates abstract art by combining the work of many computers and people over the internet.\n\nArtists have explored the term cyborg from a perspective involving imagination. Some work to make an abstract idea of technological and human-bodily union apparent to reality in an art form utilizing varying mediums, from sculptures and drawings to digital renderings.\nArtists that seek to make cyborg-based fantasies a reality often call themselves cyborg artists, or may consider their artwork \"cyborg\". How an artist or their work may be considered cyborg will vary depending upon the interpreter's flexibility with the term.\nScholars that rely upon a strict, technical description of cyborg, often going by Norbert Wiener's cybernetic theory and Manfred E. Clynes and Nathan S. Kline's first use of the term, would likely argue that most cyborg artists do not qualify to be considered cyborgs. Scholars considering a more flexible description of cyborgs may argue it incorporates more than cybernetics. Others may speak of defining subcategories, or specialized cyborg types, that qualify different levels of cyborg at which technology influences an individual. This may range from technological instruments being external, temporary, and removable to being fully integrated and permanent. Nonetheless, cyborg artists are artists. Being so, it can be expected for them to incorporate the cyborg idea rather than a strict, technical representation of the term, seeing how their work will sometimes revolve around other purposes outside of cyborgism.\n\nAs medical technology becomes more advanced, some techniques and innovations are adopted by the body modification community. While not yet cyborgs in the strict definition of Manfred Clynes and Nathan Kline, technological developments like implantable silicon silk electronics, augmented reality and QR codes are bridging the disconnect between technology and the body. Hypothetical technologies such as digital tattoo interfaces would blend body modification aesthetics with interactivity and functionality, bringing a transhumanist way of life into present day reality.\n\nIn addition, it is quite plausible for anxiety expression to manifest. Individuals may experience pre-implantation feelings of fear and nervousness. To this end, individuals may also embody feelings of uneasiness, particularly in a socialized setting, due to their post-operative, technologically augmented bodies, and mutual unfamiliarity with the mechanical insertion. Anxieties may be linked to notions of otherness or a cyborged identity.\n\nCyborgs have become a well-known part of science fiction literature and other media. Although many of these characters may be technically androids, they are often referred to as cyborgs. Well-known examples from film and television include RoboCop, The Terminator, Evangelion, United States Air Force Colonel Steve Austin in both \"Cyborg\" and, as acted out by Lee Majors, \"The Six Million Dollar Man,\" Replicants from \"Blade Runner\", Daleks and Cybermen from \"Doctor Who,\" the Borg from \"Star Trek,\" Darth Vader and General Grievous from \"Star Wars\", Inspector Gadget, and Cylons from the 2004 \"Battlestar Galactica\" series. From comics, manga and anime are characters such as 8 Man (the inspiration for \"RoboCop\"), Kamen Rider, \"Ghost in the Shell's\" Motoko Kusanagi, as well as characters from western comic books like Tony Stark (after his Extremis and Bleeding Edge armor) and Victor \"Cyborg\" Stone. The \"Deus Ex\" videogame series deals extensively with the near-future rise of cyborgs and their corporate ownership, as does the \"Syndicate\" series. William Gibson's Neuromancer features one of the first female cyborgs, a \"Razorgirl\" named Molly Millions, who has extensive cybernetic modifications and is one of the most prolific cyberpunk characters in the science fiction canon. The cyborg was also a central part of singer Janelle Monáe's 48-minute video corresponding with the release of her 2018 album \"Dirty Computer.\" This \"emotion picture\" intertwined the relationship between human and technology, highlighting the power of the digital on a futuristic, dystopian society. Monáe has previously referred to herself as an android, depicting herself as a mechanical organism often conforming to idealistic standards, thus using the cyborg as a way to detach from these oppressive structures. \n\nSending humans to space is a dangerous task in which the implementation of various cyborg technologies could be used in the future for risk mitigation. Stephen Hawking, a renowned physicist, stated \"Life on Earth is at the ever-increasing risk of being wiped out by a disaster such as sudden global warming, nuclear war... I think the human race has no future if it doesn't go into space.\" The difficulties associated with space travel could mean it might be centuries before humans ever become a multi-planet species. There are many effect of spaceflight on the human body. One major issue of space exploration is the biological need for oxygen. If this necessity was taken out of the equation, space exploration would be revolutionized. A theory proposed by Manfred E. Clynes and Nathan S. Kline is aimed at tackling this problem. The two scientists theorized that the use of an inverse fuel cell that is \"capable of reducing CO2 to its components with removal of the carbon and re-circulation of the oxygen...\" could make breathing unnecessary. Another prominent issue is radiation exposure. Yearly, the average human on earth is exposed to approximately 0.30 rem of radiation, while an astronaut aboard the International Space Station for 90 days is exposed to 9 rem. To tackle the issue, Clynes and Kline theorized a cyborg containing a sensor that would detect radiation levels and a Rose osmotic pump \"which would automatically inject protective pharmaceuticals in appropriate doses.\" Experiments injecting these protective pharmaceuticals into monkeys have shown positive results in increasing radiation resistance.\n\nAlthough the effects of spaceflight on our body is an important issue, the advancement of propulsion technology is just as important. With our current technology, it would take us about 260 days to get to Mars. A study backed by NASA proposes an interesting way to tackle this issue through deep sleep, or torpor. With this technique, it would \"reduce astronauts' metabolic functions with existing medical procedures\". So far experiments have only resulted in patients being in torpor state for one week. Advancements to allow for longer states of deep sleep would lower the cost of the trip to mars as a result of reduced astronaut resource consumption.\n\nTheorists such as Andy Clark suggest that interactions between humans and technology result in the creation of a cyborg system. In this model \"cyborg\" is defined as a part biological, part mechanical system which results in the augmentation of the biological component and the creation of a more complex whole. Clark argues that this broadened definition is necessary to an understanding of human cognition. He suggests that any tool which is used to offload part of a cognitive process may be considered the mechanical component of a cyborg system. Examples of this human and technology cyborg system can be very low tech and simplistic, such as using a calculator to perform basic mathematical operations or pen and paper to make notes, or as high tech as using a personal computer or phone. According to Clark, these interactions between a person and a form of technology integrate that technology into the cognitive process in a way which is analogous to the way that a technology which would fit the traditional concept a cyborg augmentation becomes integrated with its biological host. Because all humans in some way use technology to augment their cognitive processes, Clark comes to the conclusion that we are \"natural-born cyborgs\".\n\nIn 2010, the Cyborg Foundation became the world's first international organization dedicated to help humans become cyborgs. The foundation was created by cyborg Neil Harbisson and Moon Ribas as a response to the growing number of letters and emails received from people around the world interested in becoming a cyborg. The foundation's main aims are to extend human senses and abilities by creating and applying cybernetic extensions to the body, to promote the use of cybernetics in cultural events and to defend cyborg rights. In 2010, the foundation, based in Mataró (Barcelona), was the overall winner of the Cre@tic Awards, organized by Tecnocampus Mataró.\n\nIn 2012, Spanish film director Rafel Duran Torrent, created a short film about the Cyborg Foundation. In 2013, the film won the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival's Focus Forward Filmmakers Competition and was awarded with $100,000 USD.\n\nGiven the technical scope of current and future implantable sensory/telemetric devices, these devices will be greatly proliferated, and will have connections to commercial, medical, and governmental networks. For example, in the medical sector, patients will be able to login to their home computer, and thus visit virtual doctor’s offices, medical databases, and receive medical prognoses from the comfort of their own home from the data collected through their implanted telemetric devices. However, this online network presents huge security concerns because it has been proven by several U.S. universities that hackers could get onto these networks and shut down peoples’ electronic prosthetics. These sorts of technologies are already present in the U.S. workforce as a firm in River Falls, Wisconsin called Three Square Market partnered with a Swedish firm called Biohacks Technology to implant RFID microchips in the hands of its employees (which are about the size of a grain of rice) that allow employees to access offices, computers, and even vending machines. More than 50 of the firms 85 employees were chipped. It was confirmed that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved of these implantations. If these devices are to be proliferated within society, then the question that begs to be answered is what regulatory agency will oversee the operations, monitoring, and security of these devices? According to this case study of Three Square Market, it seems that the FDA is assuming the role in regulating and monitoring these devices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32751715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32751715", "title": "Darwinian anthropology", "text": "Darwinian anthropology\n\nDarwinian anthropology describes an approach to anthropological analysis which employs various theories from Darwinian evolutionary biology. Whilst there are a number of areas of research that can come under this broad description (Marks, 2004) some specific research projects have been closely associated with the label. A prominent example is the project that developed in the mid 1970s with the goal of applying sociobiological perspectives to explain patterns of human social relationships, particularly kinship patterns across human cultures.\n\nThis kinship-focused Darwinian anthropology was a significant intellectual forebear of evolutionary psychology, and both draw on biological theories of the evolution of social behavior (in particular inclusive fitness theory) upon which the field of sociobiology was founded.\n\nIn 1974 the biologist Richard D. Alexander published an article \"The Evolution of Social Behavior\" which drew upon W.D.Hamilton's work on inclusive fitness and kin selection and noted that:\n\nAmongst other suggestions, Alexander suggested that certain patterns of social cooperation documented by ethnographers, in particular the avunculate ('mother's brother') relationship, could be explained in reference to individuals pursuing a strategy of individual inclusive fitness maximization under conditions of low certainty-of-paternity. This hypothesis was subsequently taken up and elaborated in a series of studies by other Darwinian anthropologists:\n\nUltimately these analyses were considered unsuccessful, and were specifically criticized by other sociobiologists on a number of grounds. One problem was said to be that interpreting inclusive fitness theory to imply that individuals have evolved the characteristic of pursuing strategies to maximize their own 'inclusive fitness' is erroneous; the theory should instead be interpreted to describe selection pressures on genes:\n\nA related problem was that, in assuming that individuals simply operate as inclusive fitness maximizing agents, any investigation of the proximate psychological mechanisms that mediate social behaviors was ignored. Symons made this observation in his 1989 \"Critique of Darwinian Anthropology\":\n\nSymons, along with Tooby and Cosmides, were amongst the founders of the emerging school of evolutionary psychology, whose aim has been to focus more on these hypothesized proximate psychological mechanisms.\n\nDarwinian anthropology was critiqued by Symonds for its agnosticism as to the psychological mechanisms governing how social behavior is actually expressed in the human species, and its reliance on interpreting inclusive fitness theory to simply imply that \"humans have evolved to be inclusive fitness maximizers\". This section will review some of the relevant background discussion in inclusive fitness theory to clarify why this position was considered untenable.\n\nInclusive Fitness theory has often been interpreted to mean that \"social behavior per se is a goal of evolution\", and also that genes (or individual organisms) are selected to find ways of actively distinguishing the identity of close genetic relatives ‘in order to’ engage in social behaviors with them.\n\nThe apparent rationale for this common mis-interpretation is that organisms \"would\" thereby benefit the “Inclusive Fitness of the individuals (and genes) involved”. This approach overlooks the point that evolution is not a teleological process, but a passive, consequential and undirected biological process, where environmental variations and drift effects are present alongside random gene mutations and natural selection.\n\nInclusive fitness theory takes the form of an ultimate explanation, specifically a criterion (br>c), for the evolution of social behaviors, not a proximate mechanism governing the expression of social behaviors. What forms of social behavior might meet this criterion are cannot be \"a priori\" specified by the theory, nor can it shed light on whether the life history of a species provides opportunities for social interactions to occur. Thus, strictly speaking, the interpretation that organisms ‘have evolved to’ direct social behavior towards genetic relatives is not implied by the theory (see also inclusive fitness).\n\nInvestigating how inclusive fitness theory might apply to the potential emergence of social traits in any given species must begin with an analysis of the evolutionarily typical ecological niche, demographics, and patterns of interaction of that species. Where significant interaction between individuals is not present in the life history of a species, the theory is necessarily null regarding social behaviors between individuals. As Silk (2001) put it;\n\nConsideration must thus be given to whether the ecological niche leads to the clustering of individuals in groups or whether individuals are typically solitary. Socioecology research, for example, suggests that fundamental influences on demographic patterns are the distribution/fecundity of primary food sources as well as patterns of predation. When considering social behavior traits of a given species, consideration of these influences is in a sense, logically prior to analyses of inclusive fitness pressures on the species.\n\nDarwinian anthropology, following R. D. Alexander, used the notion of the \"inclusive fitness of individuals\" rather than \"the inclusive fitness of genes\". Dawkins (above) pointed to this as an error. The source of the confusion can be traced to discussions in Hamilton's early papers on inclusive fitness. In his 1963 paper Hamilton refers, unambiguously, to selection pressures on genes;\n\nHowever, in his paper published in 1964, actually written before the 1963 paper (Hamilton 1996), Hamilton had included a subsidiary discussion on what the genetic theory might imply for how we look at the fitness of individuals:\n\nIt is clear here that the formal treatment is of the selection pressures on types (genes or traits), whilst the notion of individual inclusive fitness may serve as a guide to the adaptiveness of the trait; just as consideration of effects of a trait on an individual's fitness can be instructive when considering classical selection on traits. At the same time, it is understandable that Alexander took the inclusive fitness of individuals as a heuristic device.\n\nIn his 1964 paper, Hamilton 'hazards' “the following unrigorous statement of the main principle that has emerged from the model”;\n\nHe uses the terms 'hazards', 'unrigorous', and 'will seem' deliberately, since his formal analysis makes clear that the model specifies the evolutionary selection pressure, rather than specifying what mechanisms govern the proximate expression of social behaviors. He also clearly points to social behaviors being evoked in distinct situations, and that individuals may encounter potential social recipients of different degree of relationship in different situations. If one ignores the cautious qualifying words however, the passage might readily be interpreted to imply that individuals are indeed expected to make an active assessment of the degree of relatedness of others they interact with in different situations. Later in the paper, Hamilton again discusses the issue of whether the performance (or expression) of social behaviors might be conditional on; (a) discriminating factors which correlate with close relationship with the recipient, or (b) actually discriminating which individuals 'really are' in close relationship with the recipient:\n\nFor certain social behaviors, Hamilton suggests there may be selection pressure for more discerning discrimination of genetic relatedness, were the mutation to occur. But 'in fact' the same net result of accurately targeting social behaviors towards genetic relatives could be achieved via a simpler mechanism of being expressed in proximity to the actor's 'home'. Hamilton is thus agnostic as to whether evolved social behaviors might be expressed via straightforward proximate mechanisms such as location-based cues, or whether more specific discriminatory powers might govern their expression. He does suggest that the distinct social contexts within which various social behaviors are expressed are factors to consider. Other theorists have discussed these questions of whether proximity, context or more discriminatory expression may govern behaviors:\n\nDawkins believes social behaviors will in practice be governed by context-based expression. Maynard Smith is, like Hamilton, agnostic, but reiterates the point that context-based cues might well govern their expression and that actively distinguishing relatives is not necessarily expected for the expression of those social traits whose evolution is governed by inclusive fitness criteria. In sum, inclusive fitness theory does imply that; \"the evolutionary emergence\" of social behavior can occur where there is statistical association of genes between social actors and recipients; but that \"the expression\" of such evolved social behaviors is not necessarily governed by actual genetic relatedness between participants. The evolutionary criterion and the proximate mechanism must thus not be confused: the first does require genetic association (of the form br>c), the second does not.\n\nDarwinian anthropology's central premise that human behavior \"has evolved to maximize the inclusive fitness of individuals\" is thus not a logical derivative of the theory. Also, the notion that \"humans will discriminate social behaviors towards genetic relatives\" is again not entailed by the theory.\n\nBefore the questions raised within anthropology about the study of ‘kinship’ by Schneider and others from the 1960s onwards, anthropology itself had paid very little attention to the notion that social bonds were anything other than connected to consanguinal (or genetic) relatedness (or its local cultural conceptions). The social bonding associated with provision of and sharing of food was one important exception, particularly in the work of Richards, but this was largely ignored by descriptions of ‘kinship’ till more recently. Although questioning the means by which ‘kinship bonds’ form, few of these early accounts questioned the fundamental role of ‘procreative ties’ in social bonding (Schneider, 1984). From the 1950s onwards, reports on kinship patterns in the New Guinea Highlands added some momentum to what had until then been only occasional fleeting suggestions that living together (co-residence) might underlie social bonding, and eventually contributed to the general shift away from a genealogical approach. For example, on the basis of his observations, Barnes suggested:\n\nSimilarly, Langness' ethnography of the \"Bena Bena\" also emphasized a break with the genealogical perspective:\n\nBy 1972, Schneider had raised deep problems with the notion that human social bonds and 'kinship' was a natural category built upon genealogical ties (for more information, see kinship), and especially in the wake of his 1984 critique this has become broadly accepted by most, if not all, anthropologists.\n\nThe darwinian anthropology (and other sociobiological) perspectives, arising in the early 1970s, had not unreasonably assumed that the genealogical conceptions of human kinship, in place since Morgan's early work in the 1870s, were still valid as a universal feature of humans. But they emerged at precisely the time that anthropology, being particularly sensitive about its own apparent 'ethnocentric' generalizations about kinship (from cultural particulars to human universals) was seeking to distance itself from these conceptions. The vehemence of Sahlins' rebuttal of sociobiology's genetic relatedness perspective in his 1976 \"The use and abuse of Biology\", which underlined the non-genealogical nature of human kinship, can be understood as part of this 'distancing' trend.\n\nThe lack of success of darwinian anthropology created space for alternative approaches to analyzing human social behaviors from a biological perspective. Alexander's initial point (above) that the inclusive fitness framework had been scarcely applied to human kinship and social patterns has remained largely valid. But the move away from genealogical kinship in anthropology has continued to be a major barrier to any potential resolution. This section reviews a range of approaches to synthesizing ideas from evolutionary biology to observations and data about human social behaviour across contemporary human populations. Whilst some of these approaches include the inclusive fitness approach, others may seek to demonstrate fit to other theories from evolutionary biology, or to demonstrate that certain proximate mechanisms of social behaviour are both compatible with the inclusive fitness approach, and also with the broad variety of ethnographic data on human kinship patterns.\n\nTheories in evolutionary biology relevant to understanding social behavior may not be limited to frameworks such as inclusive fitness theory. The theory of reciprocal altruism may have equal or greater explanatory power for some forms of human social behavior, and perhaps kinship patterns. Other approaches may maintain that human behavior is less amenable to biological analysis due to the prominent influence of social learning and cultural transmission in the human species, and instead advance ideas based on the role of e.g. culture, historical contingencies or economic/environmental conditions. All or any of these may or may not contribute valuable insights to our understanding of social behavior and social patterns in humans.\n\n"}
{"id": "2688279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2688279", "title": "Death wail", "text": "Death wail\n\nThe death wail is a keening, mourning lament, generally performed in ritual fashion soon after the death of a member of a family or tribe. Examples of death wails have been found in numerous societies, including among the Celts and various indigenous peoples of Asia and Africa, and they are associated with Indigenous Australian peoples. This article focuses on the death wail among Indigenous Australians.\n\nSome of the earliest accounts of the death wail describe its employment in the aftermath of fighting and disputes. One such discussion can be found in the second volume of Edward Eyre's \"Journal of Expeditions\". Eyre describes what appears to have been a parlay between the members of two rival tribes —\n\nNotice having been given on the previous evening to the Moorunde natives of the approach of the Nar-wij-jerook tribe, they assembled at an early hour after sunrise, in as clear and open a place as they could find. Here they sat down in a long row to await the coming of their friends. The men were painted, and carried their weapons, as if for war. The women and children were in detached groups, a little behind them, or on one side, whilst the young men, on whom the ceremonies were to be performed, sat shivering with cold and apprehension in a row to the rear of the men, perfectly naked, smeared over from head to foot with grease and red-ochre, and without weapons. The Nar-wij-jerook tribe was now seen approaching. The men were in a body, armed and painted, and the women and children accompanying them a little on one side. They occasionally halted, and entered into consultation, and then, slackening their pace, gradually advanced until within a hundred yards of the Moorunde tribe. Here the men came to a full stop, whilst several of the women singled out from the rest, and marched into the space between the two parties, having their heads coated over with lime, and raising a loud and melancholy wail, until they came to a spot about equidistant from both, when they threw down their cloaks with violence, and the bags which they carried on their backs, and which contained all their worldly effects. The bags were then opened, and pieces of glass and shells taken out, with which they lacerated their thighs, backs, and breasts, in a most frightful manner, whilst the blood kept pouring out of the wounds in streams; and in this plight, continuing their wild and piercing lamentations, they moved up towards the Moorunde tribe, who sat silently and immovably in the place at first occupied. One of the women then went up to a strange native, who was on a visit to the Moorunde tribe and who stood neutral in the affair of the meeting, and by violent language and frantic gesticulations endeavoured to incite him to revenge the death of some relation or friend. But he could not be induced to lift his spear against the people amongst whom he was sojourning. After some time had been spent in mourning, the women took up their bundles again, and retiring, placed themselves in the rear of their own party. An elderly man then advanced, and after a short colloquy with the seated tribe, went back, and beckoned his own people to come forward, which they did slowly and in good order, exhibiting in front three uplifted spears, to which were attached the little nets left with them by the envoys of the opposite tribe, and which were the emblems of the duty they had come to perform, after the ordinary expiations had been accomplished. \n\nIn advancing, the Nar-wij-jerooks again commenced the death wail, and one of the men, who had probably sustained the greatest loss since the tribes had last met, occasionally in alternations of anger and sorrow addressed his own people. When near the Moorunde tribe a few words were addressed to them, and they at once rose simultaneously, with a suppressed shout. The opposite party then raised their spears, and closing upon the line of the other tribe, speared about fifteen or sixteen of them in the left arm, a little below the shoulder. This is the generally understood order of revenge; for the persons who were to receive the wounds, as soon as they saw the weapons of their assailants poised, at once put out the left foot, to steady themselves, and presented the left shoulder for the blow, frequently uttering the word \"'Leipa\" (spear), as the others appeared to hesitate. \n\nWhilst this was going on, the influential men of each tribe were violently talking to each other, and apparently accusing one another of being accessory to the death of some of their people. Disclaimers passed on each side, and the blame was imputed to other and more distant tribes. The manes of the dead having been appeased, the honour of each party was left unsullied, and the Nar-wij-jerooks retired about a hundred yards, and sat down, ready to enter upon the ceremonies of the day, which will be described in another place.\n\nErnest Giles, who traversed Australia in the 1870s and 1880s, left an account of a skirmish that took place between his survey party and members of a local tribe in the Everard Ranges of mountains in 1882. \"Our foes did not again appear,\" he recorded. \"At the first dawn of light, over at some rocky hills south-westward, where, during the night, we saw their camp fires, a direful moaning chant arose. It was wafted on the hot morning air across the valley, echoed again by the rocks and hills above us, and was the most dreadful sound I think I ever heard; it was no doubt a death-wail. From their camp up in the rocks, the chanters descended to the lower ground, and seemed to be performing a funereal march all round the central mass, as the last tones we heard were from behind the hills, where it first arose.\"\n\nA more modern account of the death wail has been given by Roy Barker, a descendant of the Murawari tribe, some fifty miles north of the present town of Brewarrina. Barker was born on the old Aboriginal mission in the late 1920s and left there in the early 1940s. \n\n\"You hear the crying and the death wail at night,\" he recalled, \"it's a real eerie, frightening sound to hear. Sad sound... to hear them all crying. And then after the funeral, everything would go back to normal. And they'd smoke the houses out, you know, the old Aboriginal way.\"\n\nThe death wail is mentioned in many literary works:\n\n\"She began the high, whining keen of the death wail... It rose to a high piercing whine and subsided into a moan. Mama raised it three times and then she turned and went into the house...\" \nJohn Steinbeck's short story \"Flight\", set in the Santa Lucia Mountains\n\nTsitsi Dangarembga's \"Nervous Conditions\", set in post-colonial Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) gives an account of the death wail.\n\nA wax cylinder recording of the death wail of a Torres Strait Islander, made in 1898, exists in the Ethnographic Wax Cylinder collection maintained by the British Library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226741", "title": "Earth in science fiction", "text": "Earth in science fiction\n\nAn overwhelming majority of fiction is set on or features the Earth. However, authors of speculative fiction novels and writers and directors of science fiction film deal with Earth quite differently from authors of conventional fiction. Unbound from the same ties that bind authors of traditional fiction to the Earth, they can either completely ignore the Earth or use it as but one of many settings in a more complicated universe, exploring a number of common themes through examining outsiders' perceptions of and interactions with Earth.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe overarching plot in both the original and re-imagined \"Battlestar Galactica\" is the quest to find Earth, which is thought to be the location of the lost thirteenth colony of Kobol. Colonial history dictates that Kobol is the homeworld of all humanity, and that the Thirteen Tribes of Kobol fled that world thousands of years earlier, with twelve tribes founding the Twelve Colonies and the thirteenth heading to Earth. Both shows are similar in that the location of Earth is initially unknown, but clues to its location are gradually discovered by the refugee fleet from the Twelve Colonies. In both series, the exodus of the Thirteen Tribes took place so far in the past that most modern Colonials have come to assume that the stories of Earth are simply religious myths.\n\nIn the original series, several clues indicate that the existence of Earth is real. On the prison planet of Proteus, Starbuck encounters drawings of star systems on the wall of a cell once occupied by a mysterious prisoner. The star charts turn out to be that of the Solar System. Additionally, when the \"Galactica\" later reaches a planet called Terra, it is inhabited by humans who use Earth units of measurement (hours, minutes, etc.) rather than Colonial units of measurement, suggesting that it was settled by members of the lost Thirteenth Tribe thousands of years earlier on their way to Earth.\n\nIn \"Galactica 1980\", a continuation of the original series, the fleet did eventually discover Earth as it was in 1980.\n\nIn the Season Three finale of the re-imagined series, Kara Thrace returns to \"Galactica\" after her apparent death, claiming to have been to Earth and intending to lead the fleet there. The camera then pans out from the fleet to view the Milky Way galaxy, and then zooms back in to show Earth, confirming the existence of the planet. In the Season Four mid-season finale episode \"Revelations\", the fleet finally reaches Earth, only to discover that it is a lifeless, radioactive wasteland.\n\nIn \"Sometimes a Great Notion\", it is revealed that the Thirteenth Tribe consisted of humanoid and mechanical Cylons of a type previously unknown. It is also revealed that the final five Cylons had previously lived on Earth 2000 years in the past, when a nuclear war devastated the planet.\n\nIn the final episode, a twist ending shows \"Galactica\" reaching our Earth, 150,000 years ago. The Colonials and the Cylons they've made peace with decide to call their new world \"Earth\" due to the hope associated with the name of the now devastated planet the Thirteenth Tribe once inhabited. They then abandon their technology and live among the new Earth's native Hominini. 150,000 years later, in the present day, the remains of Mitochondrial Eve – a Colonial human/Cylon hybrid (named Hera Agathon) whose birth and destiny had been a major plot element of the series – are discovered.\n\nIn most variations on the \"Buck Rogers\" mythos (comic strip, TV series, feature film), Earth of the 25th century (where the action takes place) is recovering from various atomic wars, usually variations on World War III. In the original comic, Mongols have taken over the Earth; in the TV series, the Draconian Empire fills this role (although the Draconians are obviously based on Mongols). Most of Earth's cities lie in ruins, although rebuilding is in progress (Earth's capital is New Chicago; other cities include New Paris, New London etc.). The second season of the TV series revealed that much of Earth's population fled the planet in the wake of the atomic war and founded colonies in deep space; the Earth ship \"Searcher\" is dispatched to investigate.\n\nIn Joss Whedon's Buffyverse, established by \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and \"Angel\", Earth is one of several dimensions; the term \"Earth\" is used both to refer to the specific planet and to the dimension the planet exists in as a whole. Born from the Seed of Wonder, the source of all magic, Earth originated as a world of Demons, and was ruled over by the Old Ones during a time known as the Primordium Age. Eventually, however, the human race rose up and fought back against the Old Ones, banishing them to other dimensions.\n\nIn Jerry Pournelle's \"CoDominium\" series (now largely alternate history) the Earth comes under the control of the CoDominium, an alliance between the United States and Soviet Union, in the year 1990. The CoDominium imposes its control over all other nations of the Earth, halting scientific development and warfare. The CoDominium is ruled by a Grand Senate located on the Moon, and eventually constructs interstellar colonies for the joint goal of economic gain and a means of exiling troublesome elements of society. Eventually in 2103, the CoDominium dissolves, with the US and USSR engaging in the nuclear \"Great Patriotic Wars\" which destroy almost all of Earth (it is mentioned that Jamaica and the Tyrolean Alps are untouched).\n\nThe CD Space Navy escapes to the planet Sparta, which eventually becomes the nucleus of the \"Empire of Man\". During the Empire's Formation Wars the Earth is once more hit hard, but is eventually incorporated into the Imperium as the \"honorary capital.\" When the Empire dissolves in the Secession Wars in the 27th century, Earth is once more subjected to nuclear attacks, but by the early 31st century has been reclaimed by the Second Empire. By that time, the Earth city of \"New Annapolis\" is a training center for the Imperial Space Navy. To inhabitants of planets newly contacted, such as Prince Samual's World in \"King David's Spaceship\", the condition of the still largely desolate Earth is presented as an object lesson for the prohibitive price of war and a justification for Empire's claim to universal rule.\n\nIn Akira Toriyama's \"Dragon Ball\" series, Earth is the primary setting and one of many planets in the North Galaxy. The planet is inhabited by humans, anthropomorphic animals, and demons, among others. \"Dragon Ball\"s Earth features heavy science fiction themes, such as humanoid robots and flying cars, as well as heavy magical influence.\n\nIn Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" series of novels, Earth is referred to as \"Old Earth / Old Terra\" by the time of the original novel \"Dune\" (at least 21,500 years in the future). The Sun is called Al-Lat, and humanity had populated many planets (among them Caladan, Giedi Prime and Salusa Secundus). In the time of Paul Atreides, the Earth is an uninhabited and largely forgotten land, shrouded in legend. In \"Dune Messiah\", Paul refers to Hitler and Genghis Khan, in comparing the destructiveness of his Jihad to their wars. It is a wilderness and recovering an ecosystem of its own as humans have abandoned it. The artifacts of \"Homo sapiens\" have for the most part crumbled back into the planet, though a more than casual observer can find many traces of the old civilizations.\n\nPaul's son, the God Emperor Leto II, refers to the Earth many times in his journals. The God Emperor seemed particularly fond of the ancestors he had from the Western sections of Eurasia. He makes references to Israel, Urartu, (also called Armenia), Edom, Damascus, Media, Babylon, Arpad, Umlias, the plains of Central Asia, and the Greeks; the family name refers to their descent from Atreus. He seems to have had ancestors among the Turks or the Mongols as he says that one of his memories involves a horse plain with felt yurts. Leto also has the memories of a famous politician from the United States whose name was Jacob Broom. In the book Children of Dune, Leto II mentions an ancestor named Agamemnon, and makes reference to Geoffrey Chaucer and the \"Canterbury Tales\".\n\nIn \"Heretics of Dune\", it is noted that the Bene Gesserit Mother Superior Taraza has the preserved Vincent van Gogh painting \"Cottages at Cordeville\" hanging in her room.\n\nIn the \"Legends of Dune\" series by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson, set in the Dune universe, it is revealed that at the beginning of mankind's war with the Machines, called the Butlerian Jihad, Earth had been devastated by humans themselves using atomics in an attack on the Machines. In the \"Prelude to Dune\" prequel series, also by Herbert and Anderson, it is mentioned that certain Monet and Gauguin paintings are owned by House Vernius, and hang in the Grand Palais at Ix.\n\nIn the Joss Whedon series \"Firefly\", Earth is long since abandoned. It is referred to with awe as \"Earth-that-Was\", having been abandoned centuries ago due to overpopulation and depletion of the planet's natural resources. After fleeing the planet, the remnants of humanity traveled in generation ships for decades (many humans lived their entire lives within a spaceship's walls) until finding a new star system. Collection of Earth-that-Was artifacts is a hobby for the rich, and ancient Earth artifacts are known to be very valuable.\n\nIt is unknown whether Earth has actually been destroyed, or if the planet still physically exists; in the feature film \"Serenity\", ancient starships are shown leaving a sickly brown Earth with gray oceans, but the fate of the planet is never fully revealed. A puppet show in the episode \"Heart of Gold\" implies that Earth has in fact been obliterated, but this was never actually confirmed on screen.\n\nIn much of Isaac Asimov's fiction, the future Earth is an underprivileged planet — impoverished, overcrowded and disease-ridden — which is regarded with disdain by the arrogant Spacers of the \"Outer Planets\" (at this stage, there are about fifty of them).\n\nIn the \"Robot\" series, the inhabitants of these planets are still aware that their ancestors came from Earth, but this does not make them fond of the place. Rather, they develop a racist theory by which \"the best strains\" had left Earth to colonize the other planets and left \"the inferior strains\" behind. However, they have no choice but to ask the help of the protagonist, a detective from the despised Earth, to solve murder mysteries which baffle their own police. Afterwards, Earth embarks on a major new campaign of space colonization, with the hope that the new colonists will prove more faithful to the Mother Planet than the earlier ones. However, in the end of the series, the Earth is doomed to a slow radioactive process that will leave the planet uninhabitable, causing a more rapid expansion of colonization from Earth.\n\nIn the \"Galactic Empire\" series, taking place thousands of years later (originally conceived as completely separate but made by Asimov in his later career into the direct sequel of the Robot Period), Earth and settlements from it are still clearly remembered in \"The Stars, Like Dust\". By the time of \"The Currents of Space\", Earth is ruled by Trantor, not yet a Galactic Empire. Its status as the original homeworld of humanity is now disputed.\n\nIn \"Pebble in the Sky\", we see Earth in the early days of the Empire of Trantor. Earth has a largely radioactive crust with only patches of habitable land in between, and its people have to undergo compulsory euthanasia at the age of 60. It is a backwater province, and among inhabitants of other planets there is a prevalent prejudice known as \"Anti-Terrestrialism\", (obviously modeled on antisemitism), with the main negative stereotype having to do with the radiation-induced diseases prevalent on Earth.\n\nBy this time, Earth people still believe themselves to be the original home of Humanity, but hardly anyone else shares this belief. Fanatical priests, based in a mysterious Temple erected on the ruins of Washington, D.C., cultivate the mystique of Earth's ancient glories and conceive a plot to spread a Terrestrial disease throughout the Galaxy and in this way take over the Empire (and incidentally, act out the stereotype). The plot is foiled by a middle-aged tailor from the Twentieth Century, who possess powerful psychic abilities as a result of experiments performed upon him when he arrived in the future. Schwartz, the tailor, is often described as being Jewish, though this is never stated within the novel.\n\nBy the time of the Galactic Empire's decline, Earth is vaguely remembered as 'Sol' in \"Foundation\", and only one candidate for being the Original World. In \"Foundation and Earth\", records of Earth are missing, so two citizens of the mature Foundation go looking for it, and eventually find that it is desolated by nuclear radiation. The only sentient being remaining in the Solar system is robot Daneel Olivaw, who resides in a small station on the moon, overseeing the progress of a humanity now spread throughout the galaxy.\n\nIn Ursula K. Le Guin's Hainish Cycle our Earth is referred to as Terra. Like all human worlds of the Hainish Cycle, Terra was populated by the humans of Hain in Earth's prehistory, but forgot our common ancestry after millennia of no contact from extraterrestrial humans after the collapse of the first Hainish interplanetary civilization.\n\nThe second period of contact with the interstellar Hainish community, now organized as \"The League Of All Worlds\" is described in \"The Word for World Is Forest\", \"The Dispossessed\", and \"Rocannon's World\". In \"The Dispossessed\", Terra's population is said to have fallen from 9 billion to only half a billion people due to a collapse of the Terran ecology, and that life has only survived there because of strict rationing of resources and help from the Hainish. In \"The Word for World Is Forest\", the people from Terra appear as reckless exploiters of other planets. Some time later, \"City of Illusions\" provides a detailed description of Terra in the depths of a second era of isolation, called \"The Age Of The Enemy\".\n\nThe post-apocalyptic Earth seen in \"City of Illusions\" shows signs of an advanced, abandoned civilization under a rewilded landscape. A small number of humans live in tiny, isolated settlements where they retain some technologies from the past but are completely cut off from any communication with neighboring regions or with other worlds. There is only one city with high technology and energy-intensive construction, and it is controlled by the alien conquerors of the League. The events of \"City of Illusions\" lead to the third period of Terran contact with other worlds, this time as the Ekumen, during which \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" takes place.\n\nIn the short story \"Dancing To Ganam,\" which takes place in the far future of the Hainish universe, it is said that an extreme religious movement called the Unists developed on Terra and engaged in mass slaughter of non-believers and then of rival Unists sects. It is described as \"the worst resurgence of theocratic violence since the Time of Pollution\". It unclear if this time of pollution refers to the ecological collapse described in \"The Dispossesed,\" the collapse seen in \"City Of Illusions\", or is another unexplored dark period on Terra. In any case, the inclusion of this story is meant to show that even after so many millennia in the League and the Ekumen, Terra is still in many ways culturally primitive and prone to violent self-destruction.\n\nVarious individuals from Terra play a part in other stories. In \"The Telling\", Terra's incorporation into the Ekumen is briefly explained. Also, the main character in \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" is from Terra.\n\nIn \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" series by Douglas Adams, the Earth is destroyed by a Vogon Constructor Fleet to make room for a hyperspace bypass. One of two surviving Earthmen, Arthur Dent, is affronted and dismayed to find that his planet's entry in the Guide consists of one word: \"Harmless\". Ford Prefect, a researcher for the Guide attempts (and fails) to placate him by informing him that he has written a more extensive article for the next edition, although the result of merciless editing of his original draft has reduced his version considerably, now reading \"Mostly harmless\". Dent also learns that the Earth was originally constructed by the inhabitants of the planet Magrathea, as a giant supercomputer built to find the Question to the Ultimate Answer of Life, The Universe and Everything. The computer was so large that it was often mistaken for a planet, and that it was destroyed five minutes before the program was due to complete (after ten million years of running). It also mentions that humans are descended from the passengers of an ark full of unwanted middlemen (hairdressers, telephone sanitizers, advertising executives and the like), tricked into leaving their own planet behind by spurious tales of impending destruction invented by the rest of the planet's civilization (it is mentioned that the population was then wiped out by a disease contracted from a dirty telephone). The Earth was located in Galactic sector ZZ9 Plural Z Alpha. An alternate version of Earth is the planet NowWhat, which occupies the same space as Earth, but not the same probability. In the 2005 film adaptation, a new Earth replaces the old one, and everything is restored to the moments leading up to its destruction, except for one thing: Arthur Dent is not part of the planet anymore, at his own request.\n\nIn the series \"Red Dwarf\", Earth is seen mainly as the goal of the crew's trip; Dave Lister is personally obsessed with revisiting it as his home world, especially since he is the only character to be from there as Arnold Rimmer was born on Io. The novel \"Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers\" mentions the Earth, despite Lister's regard for it, as suffering from massive littering and environmental damage; with a giant toupee being installed to in order to cover up ozone depletion. The novel \"Better Than Life\", however, mentions Earth being voted out of inhabitability to be the solar system's chosen planet of refuse known as Garbage World. A methane build up \"farts\" the planet out of the system and sends it out into deep space where it becomes an ice planet; later moved and thawed by the actions of the crew of \"Red Dwarf\". The Earth is inhabited by giant cockroaches and the descendants of GELFs sent there as punishment for their rebellion and bred into the polymorph. Lister spends half a lifetime trapped there attempting to correct his species past actions before \"Red Dwarf\" can rescue him due to black hole time dilation. In \"Last Human\" a parallel Earth is doomed by the initiatives of Earth President John Milhous Nixon and humanity breeds GELFs and simulants to terraform a new home across the multi-dimensional omni-zone.\n\nIn the \"Stargate\" television series, Earth (designation: \"P2X-3YZ\") is described as one of countless inhabited worlds, and is revealed to be the original home world of humans all over the galaxy. In ancient history many groups of humans were kidnapped and enslaved by powerful alien races, primarily the Goa'uld. Others remained to form present day Earth societies, which interact covertly with other extraterrestrial races and civilizations, many of them human. Earth first became important in the scene after the Alterans occupied it as their new capital (its name was Terra at that point). When they were forced to relocate to Lantea in the Pegasus galaxy (several million years ago), they \"seeded\" the planet with a less advanced form of themselves. Eventually, the Goa'uld found the planet and determined that the human body is the ultimate host body for their parasitic race. Many humans were kidnapped through the Stargate the Supreme System Lord Ra brought to Earth (Earth already had its own Stargate in Antarctica but it was inoperable) but the leftover population wasn't touched; they eventually rebelled and drove the Goa'uld off the planet in 3000 BC. About 8000 BC, the Lantean remnants returned to the planet but the primitive civilization extinguished their last hope of rebuilding their once great civilization due to the presence of the Goa'uld; as such, the Ancients slowly died out or Ascended since their numbers were too small to survive, even by crossbreeding with regular humans.\n\nWith Earth largely left alone for millennia, its human population continued to advance until the rediscovery of the Stargate in 1928 and its subsequent reactivation in 1994 (since its DHD activation device was missing, they had been unable to determine its purpose until they were able to create a computer interface). Unlike an enormous majority of planets, the Stargate on Earth was kept secret from the general populace to prevent widespread panic because \"we are not alone\".\n\nHumans who are from Earth are referred to as the Tau'ri by most other life forms in the galaxy, including the Goa'uld. Earth is a relatively important player on account of the radical change it unwittingly brought about when troops under the command of Colonel Jack O'Neill killed Goa'uld Supreme System Lord Ra and started a guerrilla war against the Goa'uld. However, its importance pales in comparison to the power of the System Lords or the Free Jaffa Nation, even though after the extinction of the Asgard and the defeat of the Ori, the Tau'ri became the dominant race of known space — although they were initially at a huge technological disadvantage, they later managed to reverse-engineer Goa'uld technology to the point where they started building their own ships, though much of it was rendered obsolete when the Asgard granted a significant amount of non-weapon technology. The Tau'ri also created remarkable technological feats, such as fighters equipped with hyperdrives powered by an unstable isotope. Their power increased further when they discovered that, due to crossbreeding with Ancients before their extinction, some Earth-born humans actually possessed a unique gene required to operate some of the more advanced Ancient technology. The peak of their power occurred when the Asgard donated their entire technological knowledge to Earth prior to their extinction. With this and some Ancient technology, the Tau'ri actually surpassed their precursors and defeated the Ori.\n\nThe main interaction between Earth and the rest of the universe is via three organizations:\n\n\nIn the \"Star Trek\" universe, the unified human state based on Earth, was one of the founding members of the United Federation of Planets. Several major federal organizations are headquartered on Earth, such as the Federation Council which meets in Paris. The Federation President also keeps offices in Paris, and Starfleet Headquarters is located in San Francisco. Major events on Earth included first contact with the Vulcans (\"\"), barely averted attacks by the Borg (in \"\" and \"Star Trek: First Contact\"), Founder infiltration (\"\"), and numerous attempted coups. Like most other major Federation worlds, Earth is a near-utopia where poverty and war have been eradicated and environmental damage has been reversed. Earth was also the planet of origin for at least one other sentient species, the Voth, according to the \"\" episode \"Distant Origin\". Descendants of the hadrosauridæ, they are theorized to have fled Earth for the Delta Quadrant after an extinction event.\n\nIn the \"\" episode \"\", we learn that the name of the planet's actual government is named United Earth. Much of its early history is unknown, although recent Trek novels have revealed that Earth's governments founded United Earth by signing the historic \"Traite d'Unification\" in 2123. The episodes \"\" and \"Terra Prime\" imply that United Earth is a parliamentary system of government: we meet various government officials who are referred to as Ministers (such as Minister Nathan Samuels, played by Harry Groener). United Earth's leader is most likely a Prime Minister – possibly, but not necessarily, Samuels himself. In the novels, Earth's governmental structure is further developed. Earth is a parliamentary republic, with a separate head of state (the President) and head of government (the Prime Minister).\n\nIn the Mirror Universe, Earth is the capital of the despotic Terran Empire which rules over large portions of the Alpha and Beta Quadrants and is generally seen as the most powerful interstellar empire. \"\" revealed that the Empire had collapsed and fallen to a Klingon–Cardassian Alliance. \"Star Trek\" novels reveal that Earth was later liberated thanks to the efforts of anti-Alliance rebels and Memory Omega.\n\nEarth is the \"lost\" homeland of the terrans of the Koprulu Sector, often referred to as \"Old Earth\". Earth history is well known to us until the 21st century.\nHowever, by the time the 23rd century was reached, genetic engineering and cybernetics were in common use, and Earth's population had reached 23 billion. Consequently, a resource and overpopulation crisis was developing.\n\nEarth's corporate factions who supported the capitalization of genetic engineering and cybernetics were opposed by those who saw this as a degeneration of the human race. These groups included humanist factions as well as religious conservatives who resorted to terrorism in these turbulent times. The conflict was resolved by the creation of the United Powers League, which generally supported the humanist philosophy and controlled all nations except for a few volatile Latin American states. The UPL banned many religions and made English the worldwide language.\n\nThe UPL proceeded to arrest and kill many people who opposed its \"divinity of mankind\" philosophy (which included \"purity\" from cybernetics, mutations, and so forth). It was during this time that Doran Routhe set up the colonization of the Koprulu Sector. Contact between the colonists and Earth was seemingly lost, and the Koprulu Sector terrans could not have found their way back to Earth.\n\nWith the discovery of the protoss and zerg, the United Powers League reformed to become the United Earth Directorate and launched an invasion of the Koprulu Sector, ostensibly in an effort to protect itself from the distant aliens. The invasion was repelled by a tenuous alliance of the Sector's powers.\n\nIn the universe of the \"Babylon 5\" television series, Earth was located in a relatively uncontested and non-valuable portion of the Galaxy. As a result, the people of Earth were allowed to develop with relatively little outside interference or threat of invasion from alien races. Unified under the worldwide government of the Earth Alliance, first contact with the Centauri was made in the mid-22nd century, which led to trade with a number of different species.\n\nEarth remained a relatively minor power until the 2230s, when it intervened on behalf of a number of other races (which later became the League of Non-Aligned Worlds) during the Dilgar invasion. Following the Dilgar War, Earth began to expand its influence and was seen as a rising power in the galaxy. A disastrous first contact with the Minbari in the 2240s precipitated the Earth–Minbari War, in which Earth was nearly conquered: the military (EarthForce) was devastated and the planet's population was nearly annihilated. However, the Minbari mysteriously surrendered just prior to the final invasion of Earth.\n\nFollowing the war, Earth's major contribution on the galactic stage was the creation of the Babylon Stations, that are neutral trading posts and diplomatic havens. Earth turned inward and suffered from xenophobic tendencies in the late 2250s, early 2260s under the despotic regime of President Morgan Clark, until a military and civilian civil war, started by General William Hague and later concluded by Captain John Sheridan, overthrew the Clark regime and helped establish Earth as one of the major players in the Interstellar Alliance.\n\nIn the \"Robotech\" canon, based on \"Macross\", Earth is the homeworld of humanity and notable as one of the few places that \"The flower of life\" (the source of the powerful energy source Protoculture) can grow. In 1999 during a global war the (future) SDF-1 an alien warship crashed to Earth on Macross island. Discovering they were not alone in the universe (and in secret the fact that the SDF-1 was a warship for a giant sized alien race) the human race united and rebuilt the ship as well as using the technology to advance their own and to create a small defence fleet for earth.\n\nTen years later the ship was ready but as preparation for launch on a mission of exploration continued Zentradi warships arrived in orbit to search for the ship. Though humanity tried peaceful contact a booby trap in the SDF-1 fired the huge main gun at the Zentradi committing Earth to a devastating interstellar war. To lure the Zentradi away from Earth the SDF-1 attempted a space fold FTL jump. This went wrong transporting not only the SDF-1 but part of Macross Island, 70,000 civilians and two navy warships to an area near Pluto. Pressure held in sub-surface shelters long enough to evacuate the civilians while the ships were grafted on to the SDF-1 as flight decks. However the jump also caused the FTL drive to vanish (for unknown reasons) as such the SDF-1 had to return home under normal thrust fighting Zentradi all the way and unable to talk to earth due to jamming.\n\nDuring the conflict many Zentradi became fascinated by Earth culture and over a million ships eventually defected. The ship finally returned to Earth but was driven back into space to draw off the Zentradi again. However the Zentradi bought over four million ships to Earth and bombarded the planet. The SDF-1 took out most ships with an overload of its shield system but in the process the ship was left incapable of flight and most of the Earth's population was killed. Over the next two years the survivors tried to rebuild and at last the Earth began to green again.\n\nTwenty years later the Earth had recovered during the war with the Robotech masters, but even after Earth's victory the planet was then attacked and occupied by another set of aliens The Invid in 2031. The Invid collected what they could of the Protoculture on Earth but seem to have left the population (now millions once more) largely alone.\n\nIn 2042 the Robotech Mars expedition returned from deep space but was wiped out by the Invid during the battle to liberate the planet. The survivors were forced down to Earth where they hooked up with the local resistance groups.\n\nTwo years later a massive fleet arrived with more advanced technology given to them by the alien Hydenites. The Invid quickly left Earth rather than risk Earth's destruction by deadly weapons the Neutron_S missiles which were far more dangerous than man believed. As Humanity celebrated however the Hydenites were revealed as the Children of Shadow who had destroyed the Invid homeworld eons before. They launched a sneak attack on the human space station liberty. Another war then began.\n\nIn the various continuities of the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" franchise, Earth is mentioned in one way or another:\n\n\n\nAt least a billion years ago in the Uplift Universe by David Brin, there was a semi-mythical species known as the Progenitors that started the Uplift cycle—adopting a pre-sentient race and over a period of a hundred thousand years of selective breeding and genetic engineering, raising them to full sentience. As a result, most sentient species in the universe are members of various clans and factions, often quite powerful, with varying beliefs.\n\nEarth was overlooked and humans evolved, evidently without a patron race. However, by the time of first contact with galactic civilization, humans had themselves raised chimpanzees and dolphins to sentience, giving the human race a claim to patron status. This claim is provisionally accepted by the major institutions of galactic civilization even as it is hotly contested by a number of senior patron races.\n\nGalactic civilization holds humanity's claim of having evolved to sentience independently to be highly controversial at best, and an offensive heresy at worst. Some clans holding the latter view have actively conspired to have humanity's patron status officially vacated and to adopt the \"wolfling\" race themselves, thus gaining three sentient races and control of \"fallow\" genetic material: Earth's wealth of species with uplift potential. Only the conservative and ponderous nature of galactic institutions and the rivalry of other clans reluctant to see the Earth's races claimed by another have prevented this.\n\nIn the Worldwar novels by Harry Turtledove, Earth is the human homeworld and is attacked by the aliens known as The Race in 1942. All sides in the Second World War are forced to unify to fight this threat, and despite superior technology the Lizards (a human racial epithet for the aliens) are fought to a draw by 1944.\n\nIn 1962 another Race fleet arrives carrying a civilian colony force of nearly 100 million, in 1965 the Race and the German Reich fight a major war which Germany loses.\n\nIn 1994 humanity has caught up to the Race enough to send a slower-than-light starship to the Race's home world, where it arrives in 2031. Soon after another ship arrives, an FTL-capable ship, indicating that humanity has now surpassed the Race in technology.\n\n\nIn the Shannara series of books by Terry Brooks, the setting is a post-apocalyptic earth that was destroyed after a nuclear holocaust wiped out most of humanity and mutated the survivors into Men, Gnomes, Dwarves, and Trolls. Elves are also there, but according to Allanon's recounting of history, the Elves always existed in our current world. Before the Great Wars, as the nuclear holocaust is referred to, humans had advanced to a utopian society.\n\nIn the Death gate cycle series of books by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman, a nuclear holocaust led to the creation of a two mutant strains of humans who developed fantastic magical powers. Other races, such as Dwarves and Elves were also present, even in pre-holocaust Earth, but were hidden from humanity. In this universe, the Earth was destroyed by the Sartan, one of the magical races that evolved from humans.\n\nAn incomplete list of what Earth natives have been referred to in various Sci-Fi worlds:\n"}
{"id": "49995181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49995181", "title": "Entreculturas", "text": "Entreculturas\n\nEntreculturas is a non-governmental organization for development cooperation, the international social outreach of the Spanish Province of Jesuits, founded in Madrid in 1985. It focuses mainly on educating the poor in Latin America and Africa, while responding to humanitarian crises and also educating to global awareness in Spain.\n\nIn Latin America and Africa, Entreculturas supports initiatives that promote education of the disadvantaged, ranging from teacher training and building classrooms and vocational training centres, to supporting educational programs on radio, to nutritional programs. \n\nEntreculturas offers free educational resources in Spanish on line, as well as informative videos. It sends volunteers abroad for insertion experiences, to places like an orphanage in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\n"}
{"id": "3058347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3058347", "title": "Folk hero", "text": "Folk hero\n\nA folk hero or national hero is a type of hero – real, fictional or mythological – with the sole salient characteristic being the imprinting of his or her name, personality and deeds in the popular consciousness of a people. This presence in the popular consciousness is evidenced by its historical frequency in folk songs, folk tales and other folklore; and its modern trope status in literature, art and films.\n\nAlthough some folk heroes are historical public figures, many are not. The lives of folk heroes are generally fictional, their characteristics and deeds often exaggerated to mythic proportions.\n\nThe folk hero often begins life as a normal person, but is transformed into someone extraordinary by significant life events, often in response to social injustice, and sometimes in response to natural disasters.\n\nOne major category of folk hero is the defender of the common people against the oppression or corruption of the established power structure. Members of this category of folk hero often, but not necessarily, live outside the law in some way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48873247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48873247", "title": "Gubal (instrument)", "text": "Gubal (instrument)\n\nThe Gubal is a musical instrument developed by the Swiss company \"PANArt Hang Manufacturing Ltd.\". It is a vessel made of PANArt's patented \"Pang\", a deep drawn sheet steel permeated by iron nitride needles. Pang was developed by PANArt for steelpan construction in the middle of the 1990s. Examining the characteristics of their new material the PANArt tuners Sabina Schärer and Felix Rohner created a number of different \"Pang instruments\". In the year 2001 they introduced the \"Hang\". The Gubal was the first Pang instrument that was developed after the Hang. It was introduced in Summer 2013 on occasion of the 20th anniversary of PANArt. The name Gubal is registered as trademark for musical instruments by PANArt Hang Manufacturing Ltd.\n\nThe Gubal has some similarities to the Hang but also some important differences that caused its developers to give the instrument a new name.\n\nLike the Hang the Gubal is played with the hands and combines the sounds of a ring of seven tone fields on the upper side of the instrument with the sound of the air in the vessel, the Helmholtz resonance.\n\nDifferent from the Hang the \"Gu\", a round resonance opening with an inward looking neck, is placed in the center of the upper side of the instrument. It is surrounded by an elastic area, the \"Ringding\". Here the player can stimulate the Helmholtz resonance more strongly than with the Hang generating a strong bass sound. Due to a hemispherical extension on the bottom side of the instrument, called the \"Gugel\", the pitch of the resonance is 78 hertz (E). By inserting a hand into the opening the player can lower this pitch and is able to play different bass tones.\n\nThe Ringding is tuned to four partial tones: E, B, E and G. This way it serves a double function: It is a sound source itself as well as the place to excite the bass sound of the Helmholtz resonance.\n\nThe Ringding is surrounded by the ring of seven seven tone fields created with the hammer and tuned to the notes B, C, D, E, F, G and B.\n\nWhile Felix Rohner and Sabina Schärer understood the Hang as an instrument for the personal use by a single player, they emphasized the potential of the Gubal to be joined by other instruments. However, as most instruments are potentially much louder than the Gubal they faced the problem that instrumental partners drown out the Gubal. Therefore, they began to develop additional Pang instruments optimized as partners for the Gubal. In autumn 2015 the \"Hang Gudu\" was introduced and in 2016 three Pang string instruments and the \"Hang Urgu\". This way the \"Pang ensemble\" was established. On its website PANArt describes the focus of its current work as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1465972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1465972", "title": "Harold Shea", "text": "Harold Shea\n\nThe \"Harold Shea\" Stories is a name given to a series of five science fantasy stories by the collaborative team of L. Sprague de Camp and Fletcher Pratt and to its later continuation by de Camp alone, Christopher Stasheff, Holly Lisle, John Maddox Roberts, Roland J. Green, Frieda A. Murray, Tom Wham, and Lawrence Watt-Evans. De Camp and Stasheff collectively oversaw the continuations. The series is also known as the \"Enchanter\" series, the \"Incomplete Enchanter\" series (after the first collection of stories) or the \"Compleat Enchanter\" series.\n\nIn the original stories, psychologist Harold Shea and his colleagues Reed Chalmers, Walter Bayard, and Vaclav Polacek (Votsy) travel to various parallel worlds where ancient myths or old literature are reality. In the course of their travels, other characters are added to the main cast, notably Belphebe and Florimel, who become the wives of Shea and Chalmers, respectively, and Pete Brodsky, a policeman who is accidentally swept up into the chaos. In the later continuations, the most notable additions to the cast are the recurring villain, Malambroso, and Voglinda, the young daughter of Shea and Belphebe.\n\nThe protagonists utilize a system of symbolic logic to project themselves into the worlds they visit, but it is an inexact science, and they miss their target realities as often as they hit them. For example, in the first story, \"The Roaring Trumpet\", Shea intends to visit the world of Irish mythology, and instead ends up in Norse mythology. Most of the worlds visited have systems of physics different from ours, usually magical, which the heroes devote a considerable amount of effort to learning and applying. Much humor is drawn both from the culture shock of their encounters and from the reality that they usually do not understand the local systems well enough to be able to predict the actual effects of the spells they attempt.\n\nMuch of the series' attraction stems from the interaction of the psychologists' logical, rationalistic viewpoints with the wildly counterintuitive physics of the worlds they visit. Their attitudes provide something of a deconstructionist look at the basic rationales of these worlds, hitherto unexamined either by their inhabitants or even their original creators. Essentially, they allow the reader to view these worlds from a fresh viewpoint. The \"worlds\" so examined include not only the Norse world of \"The Roaring Trumpet\", but also the worlds of Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\" in \"The Mathematics of Magic\", Ludovico Ariosto's \"Orlando Furioso\" (with a brief stop in Samuel Taylor Coleridge's Xanadu from \"Kubla Khan\") in \"The Castle of Iron\", the \"Kalevala\" in \"The Wall of Serpents\", and, at last, Irish mythology in \"The Green Magician\".\n\nWith \"The Green Magician\" the original collaboration ended, Pratt's early death precluding any additional entries. A final planned story set in the world of Persian mythology was never written, nor was a projected response to L. Ron Hubbard's misuse of their hero in his novella \"The Case of the Friendly Corpse\" (1941). (De Camp would finally address the latter issue in \"Sir Harold and the Gnome King\".)\n\nReviewing the 1950 edition of \"The Castle of Iron\", Boucher and McComas described the series as \"a high point in the application of sternest intellectual logic to screwball fantasy.\". Damon Knight characterized the series as \"relaced, ribald adventure ... priceless,\" saying that \"no fantasy reader should be without them.\" In 1977 Richard A. Lupoff described the series as \"whole planes above the hackneyed gut-spillers and skull-smashers that pass for heroic fantasy.\"\n\nDe Camp was reluctant to continue the series on his own, feeling that the collaboration with Pratt had a flavor impossible for either of them to duplicate alone. When he finally did revive the series in company with younger authors nearly forty years later, this impression was seemingly borne out; while not without interest, his own solo contributions to the second series exhibit a wryer, more cynical view of the worlds toured, and the protagonists' problematic use of magic is abandoned. His interest appears to have shifted to debunking the less credible aspects of the universes visited, rather than taking these as a given and extrapolating the fantasy worlds' physical or magical laws from them, as in the previous sequence. On the other hand, some of the new authors made efforts to duplicate de Camp and Pratt's original achievement, exploring fresh venues where their heroes once again have to learn the world's fundamental magical rules from the ground up. Holly Lisle (\"Knight and the Enemy\"), John Maddox Roberts (\"Arms and the Enchanter\") and Tom Wham (\"Harold Shakespeare\") were among the authors who recreated the original formula.\n\nThe initial impulse for the continuation may have been the successful adaptation of the characters into Tom Wham's authorized gamebook adventure \"Prospero's Isle\", published by Tor Books in October 1987 (the basis of \"Harold Shakespeare\"), to which de Camp had contributed an admiring introduction. This may have encouraged him to wrap up long-unresolved loose ends from the original series, such as the stranding of Walter Bayard in the world of Irish mythology, and to resolve the unaddressed complication introduced by L. Ron Hubbard's \"borrowing\" of Harold Shea for use in his novel \"The Case of the Friendly Corpse\". Both of these goals he accomplished in \"Sir Harold and the Gnome King\" (1990 chapbook). When the decision was made to continue the series further, this story was revised slightly to reconcile it with the other new stories, though the fit is somewhat awkward.\n\nOnce the loose ends are resolved, most of the action in the second sequence involves Shea and Chalmers' quest across several universes to rescue Florimel, who has been kidnapped by the malevolent enchanter Malambroso. After Florimel is finally recovered, a similar effort must be made to recover Shea and Belphebe's daughter Voglinda, likewise seized by the unrepentant Malambroso. A final tale sends Shea and Belephebe on an unrelated adventure precipitated by the foolishness of Shea's colleague Polacek.\n\nMilieus encountered in the second series include the worlds of Irish myth and the \"Orlando Furioso\" (again) in \"Professor Harold and the Trustees\", L. Ron Hubbard's setting from \"The Case of the Friendly Corpse\" and L. Frank Baum's land of Oz in \"Sir Harold and the Gnome King\", the classical Chinese epic novel \"Journey to the West\" in \"Sir Harold and the Monkey King,\" the romantic fantasies of Miguel de Cervantes' \"Don Quixote\" (with the unique twist of its being \"Quixote's\" version of reality rather than Cervantes') in \"Knight and the Enemy\", Virgil's Graeco-Roman epic the \"Aeneid\" in \"Arms and the Enchanter\", the old Russian \"Tale of Igor's Campaign\" in \"Enchanter Kiev,\" Bhavabhuti's \"Baital Pachisi\" (or \"Vikram and the Vampire\"), a proto-\"Arabian Nights\" collection of Indian tales, in \"Sir Harold and the Hindu King\", Edgar Rice Burroughs' \"Barsoom\" in \"Sir Harold of Zodanga\", and William Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\" in \"Harold Shakespeare\".\n\nThere exists one additional contribution to the series; \"Return to Xanadu\" by Lawrence Watt-Evans, which revisits the world of \"Kubla Khan\" and transfers a minor character appearing therein to that of \"The Arabian Nights\" by the agency of an unnamed magician who appears to be intended to represent L. Sprague de Camp himself. \"Return to Xanadu\" was first published in \"\" edited by Harry Turtledove and published by Baen Books in 2005.\n\nThe original publication of the first three Pratt and De Camp collaborations (\"Roaring Trumpet\", \"Mathematics of Magic\", and \"The Castle of Iron\") was in \"Unknown Magazine\" during its brief run. The remaining two appeared in \"Beyond Fantasy Magazine\" and \"Fantasy Magazine\" a few years later. \"Sir Harold and the Gnome King\" first appeared in the World Fantasy Convention program book in 1990 and as a chapbook the following year. It was later revised and appeared with the remainder of the later continuations in regular trade books.\n\nIn the original story a character in a jail comes to the bars every hour on the hour to announce that \"Yngvi is a louse!\". This phrase has moved into the lexicon and has taken on a life of its own in certain SF-related circles. Who, or what, Yngvi may be is not mentioned in the book, though in Old Norse, Yngvi is another name for the god Freyr.\n\n\n\n\n\"The Incomplete Enchanter\" and \"The Castle of Iron\" have also been issued together as \"The Compleat Enchanter\" (1975); \"Wall of Serpents\" has also been issued under the title \"The Enchanter Compleated\" (1980); all three volumes of the original series have also been issued together as \"The Complete Compleat Enchanter\" (1989). The original tales and de Camp's additions from the 1990s were issued together as \"\" (2007).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371390", "title": "ISO 639-2", "text": "ISO 639-2\n\nISO 639-2:1998, \"Codes for the representation of names of languages — Part 2: Alpha-3 code\", is the second part of the ISO 639 standard, which lists codes for the representation of the names of languages. The three-letter codes given for each language in this part of the standard are referred to as \"Alpha-3\" codes. There are 464 entries in the list of ISO 639-2 codes.\n\nThe US Library of Congress is the registration authority for ISO 639-2 (referred to as ISO 639-2/RA). As registration authority, the LOC receives and reviews proposed changes; they also have representation on the ISO 639-RA Joint Advisory Committee responsible for maintaining the ISO 639 code tables.\n\nWork was begun on the ISO 639-2 standard in 1989, because the ISO 639-1 standard, which uses only two-letter codes for languages, is not able to accommodate a sufficient number of languages. The ISO 639-2 standard was first released in 1998. \n\nIn practice, ISO 639-2 has largely been superseded by ISO 639-3 (2007), which includes codes for all the individual languages in ISO 639-2 plus many more. It also includes the special and reserved codes, and is designed not to conflict with ISO 639-2. ISO 639-3, however, does not include any of the collective languages in ISO 639-2; most of these are included in ISO 639-5.\n\nWhile most languages are given one code by the standard, twenty of the languages described have two three-letter codes, a \"bibliographic\" code (ISO 639-2/B), which is derived from the English name for the language and was a necessary legacy feature, and a \"terminological\" code (ISO 639-2/T), which is derived from the native name for the language and resembles the language's two-letter code in ISO 639-1. There were originally 22 B codes; scc and scr are now deprecated.\n\nIn general the T codes are favored; ISO 639-3 uses ISO 639-2/T. However, ISO 15924 derives its codes from ISO 639-2/B when possible.\n\nThe codes in ISO 639-2 have a variety of \"scopes of denotation\", or types of meaning and use, some of which are described in more detail below. \n\nIndividual languages are further classified as to type:\nSome ISO 639-2 codes that are commonly used for languages do not precisely represent a particular language or some related languages (as the above macrolanguages). They are regarded as collective language codes and are excluded from ISO 639-3. For a definition of macrolanguages and collective languages see .\n\nThe collective language codes in ISO 639-2 are listed below.\n\nThe following two codes are identified as collective codes in ISO 639-2 but are (at present) missing from ISO 639-5:\n\nCodes registered for 639-2 that are listed as collective codes in ISO 639-5 (and collective codes by name in ISO 639-2):\n\nThe interval from qaa to qtz is 'reserved for local use' and is not used in ISO 639-2 nor in ISO 639-3. These codes are typically used privately for languages not (yet) in either standard.\n\nThere are four generic codes for special situations:\nThese four codes are also used in ISO 639-3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24241375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24241375", "title": "Imhotep (The Mummy)", "text": "Imhotep (The Mummy)\n\nImhotep is the titular antagonist in the 1932 film \"The Mummy\", and later featured in its 1999 remake and its sequel \"The Mummy Returns\" again as one of the main antagonists. Sofia Boutella plays a female version of this character named Ahmanet in the 2017 remake. Imhotep is loosely inspired by the historical figure Imhotep, a noted polymath and counselor to the Pharaoh Djoser in the 27th century BC.\n\nIn his original appearance, Imhotep was portrayed by Boris Karloff as a high priest of Ancient Egypt, who steals the Scroll of Thoth in attempt to resurrect his lover Princess Ankh-es-en-amon. For Imhotep's sacrilege, the princess's father Pharaoh Amenophis the Magnificent orders Imhotep to be tortured, mummified and buried alive. The scroll is buried with him, so that no one would ever again have the chance to use it again like he did.\n\nImhotep is accidentally revived as a mummy when an archaeological expedition discovers his mummy and one of the archaeologists unknowingly reads the scroll's ancient life-giving spell. While reviewing his mummy, the archaeologists that discovered Imhotep note not only was he buried alive as indicated by his struggle, but that sacred spells meant to protect his soul on its journey to the Underworld were chipped off his coffin, so his soul would be condemned in the afterlife.\n\nImhotep escapes from the archaeologists and assumes the identity of Ardath Bey, a modern Egyptian. In this form he helps the archaeologists find the tomb of Ankh-es-en-amon. When Bey meets a woman, Helen Grosvenor, who bears a striking resemblance to Ankh-es-en-amon, he realizes that she is a reincarnation of the princess, and attempts to mummify her and make her his bride.\n\nImhotep is able to use years of power and strength to control others in person and through a looking pool from afar, causing both attraction to him, and death to those he wishes it upon. His powers allow him to control others to take his orders, which gives him control and the ability to draw Helen Grosvenor to him, where she can never remember what she did, or why she was with him. In the end, Grosvenor, recalling her past life, appeals to the goddess Isis who causes Imhotep to dissolve.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian priest from the film is named after a famous Egyptian architect named Imhotep who was responsible for designing the step pyramid at Sakkara. He is also well known for becoming his own priest, and excelling in medicine where he was considered a healer, using plants to treat common diseases. Though the mummy of Imhotep has never been found, an empty sarcophagus was found in a tomb that is thought to have been his. People are in a disagreement on if the tomb discovered actually does belong to Imhotep, however, because there is evidence that whoever was laid to rest in that tomb did not worship Ra.\n\nIn the 1999 remake, Imhotep is portrayed by Arnold Vosloo and is the main antagonist of the film. In 1290 B.C., Imhotep was high priest under the rule of Pharaoh Seti I. He began an affair with Seti's mistress Anck-su-namun and they murder the Pharaoh when he discovers it. They are discovered and Anck-su-namun commits suicide, intending that Imhotep resurrect her. He and his priests later steal her corpse from her burial place. Imhotep attempts to resurrect Anck-su-namun, but is captured at Hamunaptra (the City of the Dead) by the Medjay (the Pharaoh's sacred bodyguards). His priests are mummified and buried alive. Imhotep, meanwhile, is condemned to endure the Curse of the Hom Dai: the ritual involves cutting out his tongue, mummifying him alive, and sealing him in a sarcophagus filled with carnivorous scarab beetles. The curse transforms Imhotep into an undead fiend kept in a state of living death. If revived, he would gain control over sand and other elements.\n\nDuring an archaeological dig 3,000 years later, Imhotep is accidentally revived when Egyptologist Evelyn Carnahan (Rachel Weisz) reads the \"Book of the Dead\" at Hamunaptra, where his sarcophagus was. Imhotep regenerates himself using the flesh of four thieves who breached his burial chamber and opened a cursed chest. He attempts to resurrect Anck-su-namun again, using Evelyn as a sacrifice. Ultimately, Imhotep is defeated when he is stripped of immortality by the Book of Amun-Ra, and he is stabbed with a sword by the film's protagonist Rick O'Connell (Brendan Fraser). As he degenerates into a skeletal form and falls into the pool from which he summoned Anck-su-namun's Ba, Imhotep vows he will return to have his revenge.\n\nOnce revived, Imhotep gained several powers, including regeneration, invulnerability, and the ability to turn himself into sand and control the desert sands. He could also wield the Ten Plagues of Egypt to an unspecified degree; he could turn water to blood, unleash swarms of locusts, and control the people of the city by inflicting them with boils and sores. Early in the film, Imhotep expresses an intense fear of cats, screaming in fear when a white one appears in Evelyn's room. Ardeth Bay (the leader of an ancient secret society devoted to guarding Imhotep's tomb, rather than an alias of Imhotep) and Evelyn's employer explain that Imhotep will fear them until he is fully regenerated, cats being associated with the Guardians of the Underworld in Egyptian mythology. Rick uses this fear against Imhotep later in the film.\n\nIn the 2001 sequel \"The Mummy Returns\", Imhotep, having been resurrected and freed from the resin he had been trapped in at the end of the first movie by a group of cultists and Anck-su-namun's reincarnation, proceeds to seek out the Bracelet of Anubis which was the key to finding the lair of the Scorpion King, an ancient warrior whose defeat will grant Imhotep control over the Scorpion King's near-indestructible Army of Anubis. After finding the bracelet on the arm of Alex O'Connell, the son of Rick and Evy, Imhotep captures the boy and uses him to find the lair of the Scorpion King, rejuvenating his body using the flesh of mercenaries Anck-su-namun tricks into opening the cursed chest. Once Imhotep reaches the lair, he walks over a magic seal on the floor which causes him to be robbed of his telekinesis, immortality, and other powers granted by the Curse of Hom Dai by Anubis, who seemingly wishes him to face the Scorpion King as a normal mortal. When the Scorpion King responds to Imhotep's summons, Imhotep tricks him into attacking Rick O'Connell. When Rick kills the Scorpion King and sends him and his army to the Underworld, the palace begins to collapse. Rick and Imhotep both nearly fall into a chasm, that apparently leads to the Underworld, and grab onto the ledge. While Rick is rescued by Evelyn, Imhotep begs Anck-su-namun for assistance to save him, but she selfishly refuses and leaves him to die. After this betrayal, Imhotep loses all will to live, since his only reason for returning from the grave was to be reunited with his lover, who apparently did not fully reciprocate his affection. He gives Rick and Evelyn a sad smile, understanding their love is genuine, and willingly casts himself into the pit, thus ending his reign of terror once and for all.\n\nIn the animated television series simply titled \"The Mummy\", based on the 1999 and 2001 films, he is voiced by Jim Cummings and is again the main antagonist. Unlike the movies, he is able to speak contemporary English in this series. Many years ago, Imhotep was a priest who wanted to rule the world. He was already the keeper of the Scrolls of Thebes. When he was about to steal the Manacle of Osiris, the Pharaoh sent his royal guards to intercept him and sentence him to be mummified alive. Years later, Imhotep was resurrected by Colin Weasler, despite his co-worker Evy's attempt to destroy him. He plots to seek the Scrolls of Thebes in order to remove the Manacle of Osiris from Alex. When it comes to the fight in the Paris Catacombs where the Scrolls of Thebes are, he does regain them before they end up destroyed by Alex using the Manacle's power to bring a torch underneath the Scrolls of Thebes. Though he was thought dead when fighting the Minotaur within the flooding catacombs, Imhotep managed to survive and strives to find other ways to conquer the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "33415556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33415556", "title": "Intellectum", "text": "Intellectum\n\nIntellectum is a biannual academic journal that was established in 2006 by the non-profit \"Intellectum\" scientific society. It is a member of the Eurozine network. The hard-copy publication is in Greek, while the online edition is bilingual, with many articles and interviews translated in English. The editor-in-chief is Victor Tsilonis.\n\nInterviews include the former chief prosecutor of International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, Carla Del Ponte, political scientist Ernesto Laclau, philosopher David S. Oderberg, forensic anthropologist Sue Black, Scottish writer Paul Johnston, poet Haris Vlavianos, professor of communication studies Richard Katula, professor of international criminal law and human rights William Schabas, writer Panos Theodorides, and journalist Stelios Kouloglou.\n\n"}
{"id": "10918021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10918021", "title": "Jewish assimilation", "text": "Jewish assimilation\n\nJewish assimilation (, \"Hitbolelut\") refers to the gradual cultural assimilation and social integration of Jews in their surrounding culture as well as the ideological program promoting conformity as a potential solution to historic Jewish marginalization in the age of emancipation.\n\nThe Jewish holiday Hanukkah stems from the Maccabees' revolt against the Seleucid Empire. Many Jews of the era had adopted the Hellenistic language and culture, which the Maccabee group considered an abomination. Use of the vernacular is an example of acculturation, one of the key characteristics of Jewish assimilation in the modern era.\n\nJewish assimilation began anew among Ashkenazi Jews on an extensive scale towards the end of the 18th century in Western Europe, especially Germany, as the Haskalah emerged as a culture. Reasons cited for its initial success included hope for better opportunities accompanying assimilation into the non-Jewish European communities, especially among the upper classes. \"The concentration of the Jewish population in large cities had a strong impact on their lifestyle and made them more visible in the economy and in the culture.\" As legal emancipation remained incomplete in Germany, many upper-middle class urban Jews propagated Enlightenment ideals, which they believed would allow them to improve their social standing. \"The ideologues consequently envisioned a regeneration of German Jewry that would gain it equal rights but would also lead to the formation of a new kind of Jew based on its ideal of man.\"\nBoth the Christian and Jewish communities were divided concerning answers to what was known as the Jewish question. The question, coming during the rise of nationalism in Europe, included the extent to which each nation could integrate its Jewish citizens, and if not integrated, how should they be treated and the question solved. The breakdown of the traditional Jewish communal structure, the Kehilla, marked the declining perception of a distinct Jewish nationality among those Jews that promoted emancipation. However, attempts to reduce Judaism to a confession did not necessarily induce an increase in tolerance of the Jews on the part of the majority society.\n\nAs an alternative to a more liberal practice of Judaism, assimilation also took the form of conversion to Christianity. None of the descendants of Moses Mendelssohn retained the Jewish religion. Assimilationists saw Jewish cultural distinctiveness and tribalism as the root of antisemitic hostility and thus felt that Jewish social bonds needed to be weakened.\n\nThis led some Jews to philosophical questions of Jewish identity and Who is a Jew?. The propriety of assimilation, and various paths toward it were among the earliest internal debates of the emancipation era, including whether and to what extent Jews should relinquish their right to uniqueness in return for civic equality. These debates initially took place within the diaspora, a population with a revered historical Biblical homeland, but without a state of their own for nearly 2,000 years.\n\nJewish academics in the nineteenth century partook in social scientific studies concerning anti-Semitic notions of Jewish degeneration. Their active role in this intellectual discussion served as both a calculated response to anti-Semitic allegations and a way to explore common social bonds uniting Jews as the autonomous community had been in full decline. Many Jewish social scientists did not entirely disagree with the ideas of distinct Jewish traits conceived by anti-Semites. This lent itself well to the contentious debate over assimilatory practices. \"The political and social message of this immutable Jewish nature was clear: the 'Jewish body' was racially different and pathological, and opponents of emancipation and integration were correct in insisting that Jews were unfit to be part of a healthy modern nation-state.\" Participating in the exploration of Jewish lineage can also be seen as a form of appeasement as \"It allowed Jewish social scientists to fill the roles of apologist and reformer, to defend their own people based on the knowledge and insights of science.\"\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, conditions in Eastern Europe convinced many Jews to emigrate to the United States. In Germany, Jewish integration into the Army and other occupations was successful. In the United States traditional disabilities were generally absent but they faced many different challenges of acculturation. In the early 20th century, there was social discrimination against Jews in certain quarters, with many universities and professions barred to them or with a quota limit.\n\nIn the modern 21st century, although the view on Jews has considerably improved, in the US specifically, the nation is guided as a Christian nation, with a common example being all of the Christmas songs and ads being played during the holiday season with parents needing to say \"\"we\" do not celebrate Christmas.\" , and the lack of such advertisement for any Jewish holiday during the year. Jewish assimilation is common more in the modern day since the pressures of society to be like everyone else are high. The new Reform Judaism Movement also adds to this, since it is a branch of Judaism that has become more moderate on following the laws of the torah, leading Jews to be more relaxed instead of strict on their religion.\n\nThe issue of Jewish assimilation has agitated Jewish polemicists and intrigued Jewish historians for a considerable time. Since some Jews supposedly abandoned traditional Jewish customs to embrace modern secular Western culture, more conservative Jews have chastised them for deserting the Jewish people. \"Religious Jews regarded those who assimilated with horror, and Zionists campaigned against assimilation as an act of treason.\" As a result, the term assimilation, once used proudly by those who sought integration into European society, became seen as a term of contempt for a symbol of subservience to gentile culture, a sign of rejection of all links to the common history and destiny of the Jewish people, and a betrayal of their ancestors who suffered pogroms to keep Judaism alive. Such Jews consider assimilation a loss of Jewish identity of an individual either by marriage to a spouse who is not Jewish or by abandonment of Judaism to adopt another religion.\n\nIn \"Assimilation in American Life\", Milton Gordon defined assimilation as a continuum, with the first stage acculturation, that is, the adoption of such outward cultural forms of the larger society as language, dress, recreational tastes, and political views. Total assimilation is possible only if the host society is receptive and extensive interfaith marriage takes place (at its most in former European colonies with a divisive black-white line, which allowed Jews to be seen as part of the desirable white element and where miscegenation was hardly a taboo). Most European and American Jews acculturated, but they rarely lost their sense of Jewish identity. They most frequently abstained from what Gordon called \"structural assimilation,\" the creation of friendships and other contacts primarily with members of the host society.\n\nIn \"Assimilation and Community: The Jews in nineteenth-century Europe\", Marion Kaplan describes how the Jewish identity was maintained and how the German-Jewish identity was formed, specifically through Jewish women and their actions within their families and their communities. Jewish women placed a lot of importance on their culture and religion by reinforcing their traditions. They accomplished this by continually observing Jewish traditions and rituals, such as family dinners on Friday evenings, and holidays from the Jewish calendar. Strict adherence to Judaism was essential in maintaining their Jewish identity within their household. Kaplan also stresses the importance of family and community; close knit families had strong ties with one another. This strong sense of community helped them in protecting and maintaining their culture. However, ways in which Jews adapted to the culture can be seen in the way Jewish women raised their children in Germany. They encouraged them to take part in sports, learn musical instruments, and read German fairy tales to them. Jewish women also subscribed to German periodicals, following its fashion styles and news.\n\nIn Paula Hyman's book \"The Jews of Modern France\" demonstrates that Jewish assimilation into French society allowed them to integrate in the community. The term assimilation is based on the modern term. Assimilation is presumed to \"reflection the substitution of a French identity for a Jewish one.\" It is believed that this simplistic view does not give an all encompassing view on the intricate relations between Jews and the French. The Jews had to constantly defend their legitimacy as a minority group in France. While most people associate assimilation as a negative term, \"they were not simply passive absorbers of bourgeois French culture; they also participated in its shaping.\" Jews contributed to French society, through participating in all aspects of society like government and universities. In her book Hyman helps illustrate instances that show integration in French society. Beginning with the cooperation of the French state, Jews were able to maintain networks of communal institutions in the system of consistories that both promoted acculturation and reinforced Jewish feelings of solidarity. These consistories also helped support the existence of specific Jewish institutions. These institutions provided charitable assistance to Jews through a variety of philanthropic societies. Examples of these would be a network of modern Jewish primary schools as well as extended supplemental Jewish education to Jewish children who began attending public schools. Despite mass participation by Jews in all levels of French society – government, universities, and professional careers – the vast majority of Jews in 19th century France chose to be married and buried as Jews. This clarifies that Jews were not fully assimilated into French society nor sought the disappearance of their institutions and/or biological merger with the French society.\n\nDavid Sorkin's \"The Transformation of German Jewry 1780-1840\" assesses what should have been an immensely successful integration process given the Jewish population's great societal contributions as they adopted German secular culture and the bourgeois ideal of individualism known as Bildung. Instead, a separate German-Jewish subculture developed while emancipation lagged. Sorkin depicts the fruitless attempts of the Jews to be tolerated as no level of self-denial would ultimately prove acceptable to their counterparts.\n\nFrom an international conference on Jewish assimilation held at Haifa University in May 1976, Bela Vago edited a collection of papers entitled \"Jewish Assimilation in Modern Times\". Most of these papers accept the Zionist equation of assimilation with Jewish group disappearance.\n\nThe question of Jewish assimilation is a topic of concern for both Jewish and Christian religious leaders. A number of Progressive Christian denominations have publicly declared that they will no longer proselytize Jews. They have made use of dual-covenant theology.\n\nEarly Christian Europe proved a time and place where Jews and Christians could come together while coexisting socially and creatively amidst the persecution. They were living so closely together in some areas that leaders from both would be worried about the influence one religion had on the other. A Christian Monarch in charge of a growing town would invite Jewish merchants to help revitalize the economy. There was a pattern of expulsion and re-invitation that allowed for the two to live intimately together in smaller towns throughout Europe. Louis the Pious, son of Charlemagne in the Holy Roman Empire, was the first to leave detailed descriptions of the rights of Jewish Merchants.\n\nIn Spain and Portugal, after the 15th century, there was controversy over the sincerity of Iberian Judeo-Catholics who converted under pain of being expelled from the Peninsula. In Spain and Portugal, descendants of Arabs, Moors, and Jews (\"moriscos\" and \"marranos\"), were, for a period of time banned from certain guilds, positions in the clergy and particularly from emigrating to Latin America (\"limpieza de sangre\"). This early discrimination system was weaker in Latin America due to the social status that Sub-Saharan African slaves had, much below that of New Christians from the Old World, a contributing factor to the absorption of these elements in the developing culturally pluralistic societies of the New World.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has attracted some Jews, such as Gustav Mahler, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Marcel Proust, Edith Stein, Israel Zolli, Erich von Stroheim, and Jean-Marie Lustiger.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1230430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230430", "title": "Jewish studies", "text": "Jewish studies\n\nJewish studies (or Judaic studies) is an academic discipline centered on the study of Jews and Judaism. Jewish studies is interdisciplinary and combines aspects of history (especially Jewish history), Middle Eastern studies, Asian studies, Oriental studies, religious studies, archeology, sociology, languages (Jewish languages), political science, area studies, women's studies, and ethnic studies. Jewish studies as a distinct field is mainly present at colleges and universities in North America.\n\nRelated fields include Holocaust research and Israel Studies, and in Israel, Jewish thought.\n\nThe Jewish tradition generally places a high value on learning and study, especially of religious texts. Torah study (study of the Torah and more broadly of the entire Hebrew Bible as well as Rabbinic literature such as the Talmud and Midrash) is considered a religious obligation.\n\nSince the Renaissance and the growth of higher education, many people, including people not of the Jewish faith, have chosen to study Jews and Judaism as a means of understanding the Jewish religion, heritage, and Jewish history.\n\nReligious instruction specifically for Jews, especially for those who wish to join the rabbinate, is taught at Jewish seminaries (and in Orthodox Judaism, yeshivas). Among the most prominent are the Conservative Jewish Theological Seminary and the Reform Hebrew Union College. For the majority of Jewish students attending regular academic colleges and universities there is a growing choice of Jewish studies courses and even degrees available at many institutions.\n\nThe subject of antisemitism and the Holocaust, as well as the establishment of the modern State of Israel and the revival of the Hebrew language have all stimulated unusual interest in greater in-depth academic study, research, reading and lecturing about these core areas of knowledge related to current events. In the United States, the unique position that Jewish Americans have held within the nation's complex social structure has created substantial scholarship, especially with regards to topics such as interfaith marriage, political activism, and influence on popular culture.\n\nIn a 1966 article published in the \"American Jewish Year Book\", the Hebrew literature scholar Arnold J. Band was among the first to call attention to the \"spread of Jewish studies as an accepted academic discipline in the American liberal arts colleges and universities since the Second World War\". In his article Band offered a definition of Jewish (Judaic) studies as \"the discipline which deals with the historical experiences, in the intellectual, religious, and social spheres, of the Jewish people in all centuries and countries\".\n\nThe political situation in the Middle East, especially the Arab–Israeli conflict and the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, has raised the profile of Jews, Judaism, and Zionism on campuses, spurring many on to study this subject for non-degree as well as for credits in obtaining a Bachelor of Arts or Master of Arts degree. A growing number of mature students are even obtaining Ph.D.s in Jewish studies judging by the quantity of courses and programs available. Many hope to obtain employment in the field of Jewish education or in Jewish communal service agencies.\n\nSome Christians search for an understanding of the Jewish background for Jesus Christ and Christianity and for the source of monotheism that sprang from Judaism. There are those who are seeking an understanding of the complex and volatile relationship between Islam and Judaism. Others are searching for spirituality and philosophy and therefore seek classes in Kabbalah (Jewish mysticism) and Jewish philosophy. There are also those who have a genuine concern and attachment to modern Israel as Christian Zionists and therefore seek to learn more about the subjects related to their beliefs.\n\nJewish studies have been offered at universities around the world. The following are only a few significant examples of places where Jewish studies are offered and flourish in an academic setting:\n\nSeveral colleges in the United States and Israel offer Jewish Studies or Judaic Studies as a major.\n\nThe Institute of Jewish Studies of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem was established in 1924, a few months before the official opening of the university. Widely considered to be the world's premier center of Jewish studies, the institute has includes eight teaching departments and 18 research institutes, oversees the publication of a wide variety of journals and periodicals and has student body of over 1200 students pursuing undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees in Jewish studies. In addition, the university has several institutes dedicated to specific subjects of Jewish studies, such as the Institute of Contemporary Jewry, the Institute for Research in Jewish Law, the Institute of Archaeology, the Center for Jewish Art, the Jewish Music Research Center, the Center for Jewish Education, and the Department of Jewish Thought. The Jewish National and University Library, which serves as the library of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, houses the world's largest collection of Hebraica and Judaica. The university also benefits from Jerusalem's unparalleled concentration of resources, which include: some 50 museums, most of which are dedicated to, or contain significant exhibits pertinent to, Jewish studies; dozens of independent research institutes and libraries dedicated to Jewish studies; over 100 rabbinical colleges representing all streams of Judaism; and the city of Jerusalem itself, the ancient and modern center of Jewish life, thought and study.\n\nBar-Ilan University in Ramat-Gan, Israel, has the world's largest school of Jewish Studies, which includes 14 teaching departments, 21 research institutes, some 300 faculty members and over 2,000 students. The school publishes 11 journals and the only internet journal in Jewish Studies — \"Jewish Studies\". Flagship projects of the Faculty of Jewish Studies include: the Responsa Project which is the largest data base of classical Jewish sources throughout the ages; The \"Mikraot Gdolot Haketer\" which is the most accurate edition of the Mikraot Gdolot; The Ingeborg Rennert Center of Jerusalem Studies; and the Tell es-Safi/Gath Archaeological Project, the excavations of the site of biblical Gath of the Philistines under the auspices of Prof. Aren Maier.\n\nTel Aviv University's Department of Hebrew Culture Studies is the single largest integrative Jewish Studies department in the world today. It covers a wide range of periods, methodologies, and scholarly interests. The Jewish Studies International MA provides tools and skills for further graduate studies in Jewish Studies and other fields involving text work. It attracts Humanities graduates from all over the world. Its graduates are equipped for work in many branches of education, in Jewish and other communities, Jewish cultural institutions, synagogues and churches and charities.\n\nThe Judaic Studies (JST) department at UAlbany offers undergraduate courses at elementary and advanced levels in Jewish history and culture, as well as Hebrew. Both a major and a minor in Judaic Studies are offered, as well as a minor in Hebrew\n\nCourses range from basic introductory courses on particular topics in Judaic studies to more advanced seminars where students can explore questions and ideas in more depth. Many of the courses, both upper- and lower-level courses, are cross-listed with other departments, providing students with exposure to different disciplinary methods. There are also opportunities for students to earn independent study credit through which they can work on an idea or question particular to their own interests, while also gaining valuable research and writing experience. Practicum credit may also be earned by assisting a professor in a course, and Internship credit is available through community service\n\nQualified students also have the option of enrolling in the Honors Program to be considered for a BA in Judaic Studies with Honors upon successful completion of an honors thesis.\n\nHebrew language classes are also available at the elementary, intermediate, and advanced levels, and for students who are advanced in their language studies, Practicum and Independent study credit may also be earned.\n\nThe Center for Jewish Studies, which is affiliated with the Judaic Studies department, sponsor several talks each semester, which are open to both the local, as well as academic communities, and include lectures and discussions by Jewish Studies scholars and writers.\n\nSUNY offers their students an opportunity to study abroad, including in Israel, which is overseen by the Judaic Studies department and is open to everyone.\n\nThe American Jewish University, formerly the separate institutions University of Judaism and Brandeis-Bardin Institute, is a Jewish, non-denominational and highly eclectic institution. Its largest component is its Whizin Center for Continuing Education in which 12,000 students are enrolled annually in non-credit granting courses. A prominent program of the Center is the university's annual speaker series. AJU's academic division includes the College of Arts and Sciences, leading to a B.A. degree in majors such as Bioethics (pre-med), Business, Communication Arts & Advocacy, Jewish Studies, Political Science and Psychology. In addition, AJU offers graduate degrees through the Fingerhut School of Education, The David L. Lieber Graduate School, and the Ziegler School of Rabbinic Studies, a Conservative Jewish rabbinical seminary. AJU is host to two \"think tanks,\" the Center for Israel Studies (CIS) and the Sigi Ziering Institute: Exploring the Ethical and Religious Implications of the Holocaust. Through the Brandeis-Bardin Institute, the University has oversight over Camps Ramah, Alonim, and Gan Alonim.\n\nThe University of California-Berkeley offers the Joint Doctoral Program in Jewish Studies (JDP) in collaboration with the Graduate Theological Union. Graduate Students in this interdisciplinary program pick one major and one minor period as well as a discipline. The JDP includes classes in Hebrew and Yiddish literature, Rabbinics, cultural studies and critical theory. Professors and Graduate students with scholarly interest in Jewish Studies can be found across the Humanities.\n\nBinghamton University (SUNY) offers a major and a minor in Judaic Studies (JUST). The department offers two concentrations: 1) Jewish history and culture and 2) Hebrew language and literature. There are a wide variety of courses offered. Internship credits are available. It also is home to a new Center For Israel Studies.\n\nThe Lown School of Near Eastern and Judaic Studies is a comprehensive center for Judaic studies. It houses the department of Near Eastern and Judaic Studies, \"one of the oldest and largest programs of its type outside of the State of Israel, with the largest faculty in Jewish Studies of any secular American university.\" The department's founding chairman was Simon Rawidowicz. The graduate program grants MA and PhD degrees in Bible and Ancient Near East, Jewish Studies, and Arab and Islamic Civilizations. The building also houses the Maurice and Marilyn Cohen Center for Modern Jewish Studies, the Steinhardt Social Research Institute, the Tauber Institute for the Study of European Jewry, the Jacob and Libby Goodman Institute for the Study of Zionism, the Bernard G. and Rhoda G. Sarnat Center for the Study of Anti-Jewishness, and the Benjamin S. Hornstein Program in Jewish Communal Service. The National Center for Jewish Film and the American Jewish Historical Society are associated with the Lown School.\n\nBrown University in Providence, Rhode Island offers an interdisciplinary Judaic Studies program that includes an undergraduate concentration and graduate MA and PhD degrees. Faculty areas of focus include the Hebrew Language, Jewish Thought, Modern Hebrew and Jewish Literature, Ancient Judaism, Modern Jewish History, Biblical Studies, Rabbinics and Early Judaism, and Latin American Jewish Literature.\n\nThe Institute for Israel and Jewish Studies at Columbia University in New York City is supported by access to rare books and over 35,000 Hebrew and Yiddish titles in Columbia's Library. Columbia offers a joint undergraduate degree with the Jewish Theological Seminary. Columbia offers graduate programs in Jewish history, Yiddish studies, Talmud and Judaism.\n\nThe Program of Jewish Studies at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York is an interdisciplinary program. The scope of the Jewish Studies curriculum covers Jewish civilization from its ancient Near Eastern origins through its contemporary history and culture in Israel and the diaspora communities around the world. Instruction is offered in Semitic languages; the Hebrew Bible; medieval and modern Hebrew literature; ancient, medieval, and modern Jewish history; and Holocaust studies.\n\nThe Carl and Dorothy Bennett Center for Judaic Studies at Fairfield University in Connecticut was founded in 1994 with an initial endowment of $1.5 million from Carl and Dorothy Bennett. The Bennett Center's goal is to provide Fairfield University students exposure to and contact with Jewish ideas, culture, and thinking through lectures and other events.\n\nFairfield University also offers a minor in Judaic Studies within the Religion Department. Courses cover the Jewish faith, history, and culture. It seeks to integrate Judaic Studies into the curriculum of the Fairfield College of Arts and Sciences.\n\nThrough the Columbian College of Arts and Sciences, the Judaic Studies Program at The George Washington University in Washington, D.C. offers students the ability to study in the proximity to some of the most influential Jewish and Jewish-related institutions in the United States. Because of its location on the Foggy Bottom campus in downtown Washington, D.C., internships with organizations such as the American Jewish Committee, American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), the Embassy of Israel in Washington, the Sixth & I Historic Synagogue, and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum are not only easily accessible but also very common.\n\nThe Gelman Library also hosts the I. Edward Kiev Collection, one of the largest Jewish academic archives on the East Coast.\n\nThe Center for Jewish Studies at Harvard University is the focal point for the study and teaching of Judaica through publications, fellowships, lectures, and symposia on topics of interest to scholars and to the general public. The Center sponsors visiting scholars and post-doctoral research fellows and coordinates undergraduate and graduate studies on an interdisciplinary basis. The Center does not offer degrees but degrees focusing on Judaic Studies are available in various departments.\n\nThe Borns Jewish Studies Program offers an undergraduate major (with a Jewish sacred music curriculum in conjunction with the Jacobs School of Music at Indiana University); a certificate (8 courses); a minor in Hebrew; an undergraduate and graduate minor in Yiddish Studies (via the Department of Germanic Studies); a master's degree; and a PhD minor.\n\nThe Jewish Theological Seminary of America is a graduate school which describes itself as offering \"the most extensive academic program in advanced Judaic studies in North America.\" The school grants MA, DHL, and PhD degrees in the areas of: ancient Judaism; Bible and ancient Semitic languages; interdepartmental studies; Jewish art and visual culture; Jewish history; Jewish literature; Jewish philosophy; Jewish studies and public administration; Jewish studies and Social Work; *Jewish women’s studies; Jewish liturgy; medieval Jewish studies; Midrash; modern Jewish studies; and Talmud and Rabbinics. In addition to its graduate school, JTS also runs the Albert A. List College of Jewish Studies (which is affiliated with Columbia University and offers joint/double bachelor's degree programs with both Columbia and Barnard College); the William Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education; the H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music; and the Rabbinical School. The school's library \"contains 425,000 volumes, making it the largest and most extensive collection of Hebraic and Judaic material in the Western Hemisphere.\"\n\nThe Jewish Studies Program at Miami University offers students a minor, which requires 18 credit hours, and a thematic sequence . The minor requires a balance of pre-modern and modern courses. At Miami, thematic sequence typically consists of three related courses designed with an intellectual or pedagogical progression. Undergraduates must take a thematic sequence outside the department(s) in which they major, according to the Global Miami Plan for Liberal Education.\n\nMiami's program began in 2000, with the support of Thomas Idinopulos (d. 2010) and Karl Mattox. The proposal for Miami's Jewish Studies Program was developed partly by Allan Winkler. In 2006 and 2007, Miami University received grants from the Posen Foundation for the study of secular Judaism. Professor Sven-Erik Rose\n\nThe Jean and Samuel Frankel Center for Judaic Studies at the University of Michigan was formed as an independent program under the leadership of Jehuda Reinharz in 1976 and expanded into its current model in 1988. A strong faculty with a variety of expertise has allowed the interdisciplinary program to grow significantly in recent years. Areas of special interest include numerous faculty with strengths in Rabbinics, Yiddish literature and modern Jewish history. The current director, Dr. Deborah Dash Moore, is the author of \"GI Jews\", chronicling the role of Jews in the United States military and co-editor of the two-volume \"Jewish Women in America: An Historical Encyclopedia\". Other leading faculty members include Zvi Gitelman, Todd Endelman, Anita Norich, Madeline Kochen, Mikhail Krutikov, Elliot Ginsburg, Scott Spector and Julian Levinson. Recent arrivals include Ryan Szpiech (Spanish, Sephardic Culture, Medieval Iberia) and Rachel Neis (Rabbinics, Late Antique Judaism).\n\nMichigan Jewish Institute provides academic baccalaureate and other degree granting programs that combine an arts and sciences foundation with concentrations in Education, Leadership and General Judaic Studies for career development in applied Judaic disciplines. The Institute is part of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement.\n\nThe Skirball Department of Hebrew and Judaic Studies offers one of the most comprehensive Jewish Studies programs in North America, encompassing Hebrew language and literature as well as all facets of Jewish history and culture, from the ancient through the medieval to the modern. Courses are taught by faculty whose specialties include ancient Judaism, medieval Jewish history, modern Jewish history, Biblical studies, Middle Eastern studies, Postbiblical and Talmudic literature, Jewish mysticism, Jewish philosophy, and related fields. The school will grant eight elective credits to students who score 75 or more on the Jerusalam Exam\n\nNorthwestern University is home to the Crown Family Center for Jewish Studies, which offers both a minor and major in Jewish studies. The center consists of faculty across various departments, and offers courses in Hebrew, Yiddish, Jewish history, rabbinics, Jewish literature, and political science. Notable faculty include Yohanan Petrovsky-Shtern, Irwin Weil, Jacob Lassner, Beverly Mortensen and Elie Rekhess.\n\nThe Harold Schnitzer Family Program in Judaic Studies at Portland State University (PSU) is located in Portland, Oregon. The Harold Schnitzer Family Program in Judaic Studies offers both a Bachelor of Arts major and minor in Judaic Studies. Majors may choose one of five areas of concentration: Jews in Antiquity; Israel Studies; Judaism; Literature, Culture, and the Arts; or Modern Jewish History. Hebrew language instruction is also available.\n\nThe University of Oklahoma offers a Bachelor of Arts degree in Judaic Studies and minors in Judaic Studies and Hebrew. It also offers fellowships to students pursuing graduate degrees in history. The University is home to the Schusterman Center in Judaic and Israel Studies which began in 1993 as the Schusterman Program in Judaic and Israel Studies with the establishment of a Chairmanship by the Schusterman Family Foundation as a memorial to Sam Schusterman and Harold Josey. The program expanded to include a major in 2009. Classes include Hebrew, Jewish Literature, Jewish Mysticism, Israel, the Shoah, and Jewish History. Students can find other Jewish learning opportunities at the OU Hillel.\n\nThe Herbert D. Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies at the University of Pennsylvania is the only institution in the world devoted exclusively to post-doctoral research on Jewish civilization in all its historical and cultural manifestations.The Center was created in the fall of 1993 by the merger of the Annenberg Research Institute and the University of Pennsylvania. The library contains vast holdings of Judaica. There are several online exhibits as well.\n\nUniversity of Pennsylvania students can major or minor in Jewish studies in different departments.\n\nOther resources are available at the Weigle Judaica and Ancient Near Eastern Studies (JANES) Reading Room (in the Van Pelt Library). It contains about 6,000 non-circulating resources for study including \"...the Chicago Assyrian Dictionary (CAD); Biblical and multi-lingual dictionaries; grammars; important facsimiles and transcriptions of Sumerian and Northwest Semitic primary sources; critical Biblical editions and commentaries; Tannaitic, Amoraic, Midrashic, Geonic, and Responsa literatures; sixty-nine scholarly journals, including thirty-nine currently received periodicals.\" The Freedman Jewish Sound Archive contains over 4,000 Yiddish and Hebrew sound recordings and sheet music.\n\nThe Program in Judaic Studies at Princeton University offers a certificate program. It includes a mandatory course called \"Great Books of the Jewish Tradition.\" and four other classes.\n\nRutgers University has the largest Department of Jewish Studies among public research universities in the U.S. The Department serves as the academic home of seven full-time faculty members, who are supported by a dozen associated faculty members from other academic departments, Hebrew and Yiddish language instructors, and visiting fellows sponsored by the Allen and Joan Bildner Center for the Study of Jewish Life Students pursuing a B.A. degree may major or minor in Jewish Studies. In addition, the Department offers two specialized minors, one in Modern Hebrew Language and one in the Language and Culture of Ancient Israel.\n\nThe M.A. degree in Jewish Studies is designed for those seeking to advance their knowledge at the graduate level to prepare for doctoral-level work in Jewish Studies or other careers. The Department also offers a Certificate in Jewish Studies to graduate students at Rutgers pursuing master’s level or doctoral level work.\n\nThe program offers six free non-credit online courses in Jewish Studies. Topics include Zionism, Rabbinic literature, Bible History, Jews under Islam and more.\n\nThe Jewish Studies Program at San Diego State University (SDSU), located in San Diego, California, is an interdisciplinary program serving the students of SDSU as well as the greater San Diego community. SDSU offers a Major in \"Modern Jewish Studies\" and a Minor in \"Jewish Studies\" and are teaching a broad range of topics related to Jewish history, religion and culture from the biblical through the modern period. SDSU also offers a minor in Hebrew language within SDSU's Department of Linguistics, Asian/Middle Eastern Languages program In addition, SDSU hosts the Archives of the \"Jewish Historical Society of San Diego\" as well as \"The Lipinsky Institute for Judaic Studies.\" SDSU is ranked #28 in the country in public universities for Jewish students. SDSU has the largest Jewish student population in San Diego, and the fourth (4th) largest in California.\n\nPreviously Chicago’s College of Jewish Studies, the predecessor of Spertus Institute, was founded in 1924. In its first year it offered three courses: Jewish history, religion, and language. By 1948, a Department of Graduate Studies offering bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees had been initiated. Today Spertus Institute offers accredited master's degree programs in Jewish Studies, Jewish Professional Studies, and Doctoral degree programs in Jewish Studies. Distance learning options serve students in 38 U.S. states and nine foreign countries.\n\nThe Judaic Studies Program at Syracuse University offers an Undergraduate Major in Modern Jewish Studies and a minor in Jewish Studies. Additionally, the School of Education offers a minor in Jewish Education to \"better prepare SU undergraduates to teach in Jewish congregational schools, camps, community centers, youth organizations.\" Syracuse University also offers classes in the Hebrew language.\n\nThe Judaic Studies Program at UC San Diego offers an Undergraduate Major in Judaic Studies, a minor in Judaic Studies, and a minor in Hebrew Language and Literature. Additionally, the History Department offers a master's degree in Judaic Studies and a Ph.D. in ancient history with relevant major fields including the history of Israel in the biblical period and the history of the Jewish people in antiquity. The Anthropology Department, in conjunction with the Judaic Studies Program, offers graduate training in Near Eastern archaeology with a focus on Israel and Jordan.\nThe school is also involved with the USC Shoah Foundation/The Visual History Archive an academic \"authority on the study of genocide and personal testimony.\"\nMany free interviews and videos may be accessed online or at a partner site.\n\nThe Schusterman Center for Jewish Studies of The University of Texas at Austin, founded in 2007, is the hub for Jewish Studies at UT Austin. It offers an undergraduate JS major; a network of graduate students pursuing Jewish research interests is organized through the Center. The Schusterman Center sponsors or cosponsors visiting speakers, film series, performing arts events, and exhibits, among other activities, and hosts visiting Israeli faculty. While it strives to include all Jewish topics, its areas of emphasis are Israel, which is covered by the Institute for Israel Studies within the Schusterman Center, Central and Eastern European Jewish history and culture and the Holocaust, Jewish Life in the Americas (including Latin America, the United States, and Canada), under the aegis of the Edwin Gale Collaborative for the Study of Jewish Life in the Americas, and Jewish Futures. The Schusterman Center houses the Nathan Snyder Memorial Library and a collection of original artwork by Latin American Jewish visual artists. It has close ties to the Latin American Jewish Studies Association (LAJSA) and hosts the LAJSA website.\n\nTouro College in New York City takes its name from Judah Touro and Isaac Touro, Jewish community leaders of colonial America, who represent the ideals upon which the College bases its mission. The college supports the faith of its Jewish students in addition to offering a variety of degrees.\n\nJewish Studies at the University of Virginia allows students to focus on the history, languages, and literature of the Jewish people; the beliefs and practices of Judaism; and the enduring contributions of Jewish wisdom to human civilization. Courses in Biblical and Modern Hebrew, Yiddish, Bible, Rabbinic literature, Jewish ancient and modern history, Jewish literature and culture, Holocaust studies, Jewish theology, and Jewish communities and cultures worldwide. Study abroad in Israel or in other centers of Jewry beyond North America.\n\nJewish Studies at UW began in the 1970s and today includes two dozen faculty members. Pillars of the program include the Stroum Lecture Series, the Hazel D. Cole Fellowship.\n\nYeshiva University in New York City has one of the largest departments of Jewish studies outside Israel and is the home of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, the leading modern-orthodox rabbinical college in the United States. Its Jewish studies library contains over 300,000 volumes. It also houses the Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies.\nProminent Jewish Studies faculty members include Richard C Steiner, Barry Eichler, Debra Kaplan, Haym Soloveitchik, Ephraim Kanarfogel, David Berger, Mordechai Z. Cohen, Shalom Carmy, Steven Fine, Adam Zachary Newton, and Jeffrey S. Gurock.\n\nUniversity College London (UCL) houses the largest department of Hebrew and Jewish Studies in Europe. The department is the only one in the UK to offer a full degree course and research supervision in Jewish Studies at the BA Honours, MA, MPhil and PhD levels in every subject of Hebrew and Jewish Studies—philology, history, and literature—covering virtually the entire chronological and geographical span of the Hebrew and Jewish civilisation from antiquity through the Middle Ages to the modern period. As the first university in England to open its doors to Women, Roman Catholics and Dissenters, UCL was also the first to admit Jewish students. This traditional link of the College with the Anglo-Jewish community is very much alive today. Sir Isaac Lyon Goldsmid (1778–1859), one of the leading figures in the struggle for Jewish emancipation in England, was among the principal founders of University College and the chief promotor of its Hebrew department. At his instigation, Hyman Hurwitz was appointed as the first Professor of Hebrew in 1828. In 1967 the department was renamed the Department of Hebrew and Jewish Studies and extended to include, in addition to the established courses in Hebrew language and literature, a much wider range of courses with an emphasis on Jewish history. The department acts as host to both the Jewish Historical Society of England (JHSE) and the Institute of Jewish Studies (IJS), which organises annual public lecture series and international conferences on all aspects of Jewish civilisation.\n\nA nine-month course at Oxford University offers a chance to study Judaism at many different stages in its history - from its roots as the religion of the Israelites to the 20th century - as well as the opportunity to develop skills in a language important to the knowledge, understanding, practice and interpretation of the Jewish faith (or learn a language from scratch).\n\nCambridge has long been a centre for Hebrew and Semitic studies, the Regius Professorship of Hebrew having been founded by Henry VIII in 1540. The Hebrew degree at the Faculty of Asian and Middle Easter Studies (FAMES) takes four years, with the third year spent abroad. Along with general courses on Middle Eastern history and culture, students in the FAMES Hebrew programme study Hebrew language, literature, and culture of all periods (ancient, medieval, and modern). The teaching staff include specialists in each of these periods, including Dr. Aaron Hornkohl, Prof. Geoffrey Khan, Prof. Nicholas de Lange, Dr Yaron Peleg, and Dr. Michael Chaim Rand. A student may officially combine Hebrew with Arabic or a Modern European Language. \n\nThe Birobidzhan Jewish National University, a Russian university, works in cooperation with the local Jewish community of Birobidzhan. The university is unique in the Russian Far East. The basis of the training course is study of the Hebrew language, history and classic Jewish texts.\n\nIn recent years, the Jewish Autonomous Oblast has grown interested in its Jewish roots. Students study Hebrew and Yiddish at a Jewish school and Birobidzhan Jewish National University. In 1989, the Jewish center founded its Sunday school, where children studyYiddish, learn Jewish folk dance, and learn about the history of Israel. The Israeli government helps fund the program.\n\nThe Center for Jewish Studies Heidelberg (Hochschule für Jüdische Studien Heidelberg) is a fully recognized and accredited non-denominational institution of higher learning that delves into abroad range of research topics within the field of Jewish Studies. With its ten chairs working in close cooperation with the University of Heidelberg, the Center for Jewish Studies Heidelberg is a point of dynamic scholarly discussion, incorporating all facets of Jewish religion, history, cultures and societies. While the proximity to the historical heritage of Ashkenaz provides decisive impetus for both academic and religious work, its interest invariably extends beyond to all areas of geography and chronology as to consider Jewish cultures at large\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42403589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42403589", "title": "JoJo's Bizarre Adventure (TV series)", "text": "JoJo's Bizarre Adventure (TV series)\n\n, also known as JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: The Animation, is an anime television series produced by David Production based on the manga of the same name by Hirohiko Araki. The series focuses around the mysterious adventures of the Joestar family across the generations, from the end of the 19th century to the modern times. The series is broadcast on Tokyo MX before entering syndication on 4 JNN stations, BS11, and Animax.\n\nThe first season, adapting the first two parts, \"Phantom Blood\" and \"Battle Tendency\", aired in Japan between October 5, 2012 and April 5, 2013. In the United States, it aired on Adult Swim's Toonami programming block starting on October 15, 2016. A second season covering the third part, \"Stardust Crusaders\", was divided in two parts, the first aired between April 4, 2014 and September 12, 2014, and the second between January 9, 2015 and June 19, 2015. A third season covering the fourth part, \"Diamond Is Unbreakable\", aired from April 1, 2016 to December 23, 2016, and a fourth season covering the fifth part, \"Golden Wind\", started airing on October 5, 2018. The series is distributed in North America by Warner Home Video for the DVD rights, while the Blu-ray and merchandising rights for the series are owned by Viz Media.\n\n\"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\" tells the story of the Joestar family, a family whose various members discover they are destined to take down supernatural foes using powers that they possess. The story is split up into unique parts, each following one member of the Joestar family, who inevitably has a name that can be abbreviated to the titular \"JoJo\". \n\nThe first season aired in Japan between October 5, 2012 and April 5, 2013, with episodes 1-9 covering the \"Phantom Blood\" arc, and episodes 10-26 covering the \"Battle Tendency\" arc. The first part follows a young man named Jonathan Joestar who becomes involved in a battle against Dio Brando, who uses the power of a mysterious Stone Mask to become a vampire. The second part takes place fifty years later as Jonathan's grandson, Joseph Joestar, faces up against the Stone Mask's creators, the Pillar Men. The opening theme for the \"Phantom Blood\" arc is by Hiroaki \"Tommy\" Tominaga, while the opening theme for the \"Battle Tendency\" arc is \"Bloody Stream\" by Coda. The ending theme for both arcs is British progressive rock band Yes' 1972 single \"Roundabout\". \"Phantom Blood\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> score was composed by Hayato Matsuo while \"Battle Tendency\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> was performed by Taku Iwasaki. The series was made available for streaming on Crunchyroll on April 4, 2014. Warner Home Video released the complete first season on DVD in North America on September 22, 2015 while Viz Media will release the series on Blu-ray Disc. On television, the series began airing on Adult Swim's Toonami programming block on October 15, 2016. Kaze UK licensed the first season in the UK on Blu-ray, with Manga Entertainment handling distribution of the series.\n\nThe second season, titled \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders\", adapts the series third story arc, \"Stardust Crusaders\". Set in 1987, the story follows Joseph's grandson, Jotaro Kujo, and his companions as they seek to defeat DIO, who has placed a curse on his mother, using special abilities known as Stands. The series is split into two halves, each lasting 24 episodes. The first half aired in Japan between April 4, 2014 and September 12, 2014, while the second half, subtitled \"Battle in Egypt\", aired between January 9, 2015 and June 19, 2015. For the first half, the opening theme is \"Stand Proud\" by Jin Hashimoto, while the ending theme is American band The Bangles' 1985 single \"Walk Like an Egyptian\". For the second half, the opening theme is by JO☆STARS ~TOMMY,Coda,JIN~ (Hiroaki \"Tommy\" Tominaga, Coda, and Jin Hashimoto), while the main ending theme is the Pat Metheny Group's \"Last Train Home\", from their 1987 album \"Still Life (Talking)\". An alternate ending theme, , is performed by Oingo and Boingo (Makoto Yasumura and Motoko Kumai) in episode 27, and by Hol Horse and Boingo (Hidenobu Kiuchi and Motoko Kumai) in episodes 36-37. The score is composed by Yugo Kanno. The series was simulcast by Crunchyroll, with some character names altered to avoid copyright infringement. An English dub of the first three episodes was streamed on July 5, 2014. \n\nOn October 24, 2015, Warner Bros. Animation announced that production on a third season of the anime to focus on the 4th story arc of \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\", \"Diamond Is Unbreakable\". Set in 1999, eleven years after the events \"Stardust Crusaders\", the series follows Joseph Joestar's illegitimate son Josuke Higashikata as he and his Stand-wielding friends in the town of Morioh in M-Prefecture's capital S-City become wrapped up in a murder mystery. The series is being directed by Naokatsu Tsuda and written by Yasuko Kobayashi with character design by Terumi Nishii and music by Yugo Kanno. The series began airing in Japan on April 1, 2016. The ending theme is Australian pop group Savage Garden's 1996 single \"I Want You\".\n\n\"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Golden Wind\" started airing on October 5th, 2018.\nAt the 2013 CEDEC Awards, the anime's opening sequence won in the Visual Arts division. The first DVD release of the TV anime was the fourth best-selling animation DVD in Japan for the week of January 28 to February 3, 2013, with 4,510 copies sold. Its Blu-ray version was the fourth best-selling animation Blu-ray for that same week, with 14,860 copies sold. The second volume ranked sixth in both animation DVDs and Blu-rays for the week of February 18–24, with 2,764 and 12,501 copies sold respectively. The anime's third volume was the sixth best-selling animation DVD, with 2,994 copies sold, and the second best-selling animation Blu-ray, with 13,536 copies sold, for the week of March 25–31.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57940933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57940933", "title": "Madonna and Child with Angels (Matsys)", "text": "Madonna and Child with Angels (Matsys)\n\nMadonna and Child with Angels or Madonna and Child Surrounded by Angels is a c.1509 oil on panel triptych painting by Quentin Matsys, now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon.\n\n"}
{"id": "35863819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35863819", "title": "Motek Cultural Initiative", "text": "Motek Cultural Initiative\n\nMotek Cultural Initiative was established in 2011 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada in order to showcase Israeli music. Its programs include annual galas, concerts, music festivals, workshops, lectures, advocacy events, and Q&A sessions.Motek is Hebrew slang for \"Sweetheart\", \"Mon Cheri\", \"Habibi\" is a gender-neutral term of endearment.\n\nUpon moving to Canada from Israel, it became evident to Motek's founder, Ravid Dahan, that few organizations in North America were celebrating Israeli musical artists in their programming, even though there was a growing demand for it in Jewish and world music communities. Having worked with the most prominent talents, including Israel’s top-ten musical artists, Ravid created Motek to promote Israeli music while bridging the gap between local Jewish and Israeli communities. The charity hosts an annual gala in Toronto venues.\n\n \nOn March 18, 2012, Motek's inaugural gala and concert featured The Idan Raichel Project, accompanied by a 10-piece orchestra. The concert, held at the Queen Elizabeth Theatre (Toronto) in Toronto had a sold out crowd of 1,500. The Moroccan themed after party featured belly-dancers, Dj's, and authentic cuisine.\n\nOn April 28, 2013, Tel-Aviv was transported to Toronto with Motek’s Is Rock second annual gala featuring rock band Mashina, hip-pop band Hadag Nahash and Yael Deckelbaum. The celebration of Israeli culture gave audiences music, cuisine and a market place.\n\nOn May 10, 2014, Motek hosted its third annual gala in association with Massey Hall. An audience of 2,500 enjoyed a Canadian/Israeli experience with a fusion of Middle Eastern, West African, Latin American, Indian and Caribbean sounds. Musicians included The Idan Raichel Project, singer Raichel, and a 10-piece orchestra.\n\nOn May 7, 2015 Motek hosted its fourth annual gala, featuring Shlomi Shabat accompanied by a 12 piece ensemble. The concert was held at the Queen Elizabeth Theatre (Toronto) in Toronto.\n\nMotek offers sponsorship opportunities to fund the distribution of Israeli artists in North America.\n"}
{"id": "1045954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045954", "title": "Orgasmatron", "text": "Orgasmatron\n\nThe orgasmatron is a fictional electromechanical device that appears in the 1973 movie \"Sleeper\", which also shows the effects of a related device, an orgasmic orb. Similar devices have appeared in other fictional works. The term has also been applied to a non-fictional device capable of triggering an orgasm-like sensation using electrodes implanted at the lower spine.\n\nAuthor Christopher Turner has suggested that the orgasmatron was a parody of Wilhelm Reich's orgone accumulator.\n\nThe orgasmatron is a fictional device in the fictional future society of 2173 in the Woody Allen movie \"Sleeper\". It is a large cylinder big enough to contain one or two people. The orgasmatron was made by decorating an elevator in the home where the movie was filmed. Once entered, it contains some (otherwise undescribed) future technology that rapidly induces orgasms. This is required, as almost all people in the \"Sleeper\" universe are impotent or frigid, although males of Italian descent are considered the least impotent of all groups.\n\nThe main character Miles Monroe, played by Allen, is being hunted by the police as being subversive to security of the state, and attempts to hide in it, thinking it is a closet. He is discovered there, and easily captured in a daze, with a sheepish smile on his face.\n\nAnother related device, an orb, also appears in this movie. It is a silver-colored sphere about the size of a grapefruit that contains some (otherwise undescribed) future technology. When the orb is touched by a human, it induces pleasurable sensations. In a scene where Miles impersonates a robotic servant, he is ordered by the hostess to pass the orb among the guests. Unlike the robot he is imitating, he is not immune to the effects of the orb. Much physical humor results from his reaction to firmly holding this device, which party participants only lightly caress.\n\nLater on, they encounter a gay male couple, one of whom offers Miles a \"hit off the orb\". Miles reports that he's \"cool\" and does not need to indulge. It appears the effect of the orb is more like social drinking or drug use, pleasurable rather than orgasmic.\n\nSimilar devices are:\n\nThe device has been invented by Dr. Durand-Durand, the evil antagonist in \"Barbarella\". Instead of being called an Orgasmatron, Durand-Durand refers to it as the Excessive Machine. It resembles a clamshell that once grasping the passenger's entire body below the neck, gently (at first) and pleasurably massages the passenger by flexing its upper half with a wave-like motion from right to left. The lid is made of long, rigid rod-like paddles that lie in a row, side by side. The paddles themselves each have one end at the bottom of the lid, near the joint of the Excessive Machine's \"clamshell\", and the other end moves freely. Because the paddles are not glued or welded together but instead move together, and because the paddles pivot around the \"clamshell\" joint and move parallel to the sagittal plane, they can have this wave-like motion. It is operated from a keyboard resembling that used to control a large organ. By properly manipulating the keys the operator may induce great sexual pleasure in the victim, sufficient to cause death by orgasm. In one of the final scenes of the movie the evil opponent is torturing Barbarella with the pleasures of this machine, during which she vocalises extensively (\"oh\", \"ooh\", \"ahh\", etc.). But in the end the machine overloads and is destroyed, while she survives, and feels rather well.\n\nSee Magic Mountain (1973) by Jadorowski for another orgasmatron.\n\nIn the 1974 film \"Flesh Gordon\", a ribald parody of the science fiction adventures of Flash Gordon, the villain \"Emperor Wang\" directs a \"sex ray\" at Earth which causes the planet's inhabitants to become uncontrollably sexually aroused.\n\n\"Orgasmatron\" is the seventh album by the British band Motörhead, released in 1986. It is the only full Motörhead album to feature Pete Gill on the drums, although he also played on the four new tracks recorded for the 1984 \"No Remorse\" compilation album.\n\n\"Senso-rings\" were used in the movie \"Coneheads\" to provide pleasure to the other partner.\n\nJohn Spartan (played by Sylvester Stallone) is introduced to an orgasmatron-like device by Lt. Lenina Huxley (Sandra Bullock) in the 1993 movie \"Demolition Man\". The device is in widespread use in the film's future world, since actual sex (\"fluid exchange\") has been deemed unsafe and become both illegal and socially taboo.\n\nIn \"Orgazmo\", the \"Orgazmorator\" was built in the form of an oversized water gun. It was operated by pointing it at a subject and firing. Apparently, it could even generate multiple successive orgasms in a man.\n\nDiscovered serendipitously as a potential side effect of a spinal cord stimulator used in pain relief, the medical \"orgasmatron\" device has been judged effective by some recipients, but costs $3,000 and requires surgical insertion of electrodes near the spinal cord. Invented by Dr. Stuart Meloy in Winston-Salem, the device employs a function generator manufactured by Advanced Medical Electronics Corporation (AME Corp.). It has been described as being of great potential in treating sexual dysfunction in women. The device and its inventor were featured in the first episode of the seventh season of the Showtime show \"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8704220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8704220", "title": "Outline of construction", "text": "Outline of construction\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to construction:\n\nConstruction – process of building or assembling infrastructure. A complex activity, large scale construction involves extensive multitasking. Normally, a job is managed by a project manager, and supervised by a construction manager, design engineer, construction engineer or project architect.\n\n\n\nHistory of construction\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24475525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24475525", "title": "Patternmaker", "text": "Patternmaker\n\nApparel patternmakers draft patterns based on a designer's sketch of a style. The designer gives the sketch to the patternmaker, who can ask questions to determine details the designer is looking for.\n\nPatterns may be drafted on paper or in a computer program designed for patternmaking. Most of the time, in modern American samplerooms, the patternmaker pulls an existing pattern (or block) and makes a modified copy of it to match the new style, either on paper or on computer. If it's a completely new style, the patternmaker will usually drape a rough draft in muslin fabric on a dress form, then show it to the designer to discuss any changes before transferring the markings to paper to create the pattern for cutting. Patterns may also be drafted from measurements, but this method has fallen out of use, as it's less accurate and takes longer than the other methods. Patternmakers are also asked to copy existing garments without damaging them. This is a common practice in American samplerooms.\n\nPatternmakers have a combination of engineering and design skill. They need to be able to understand what the designer wants, and translate that into the lines of a pattern that will cause the garment to fit correctly. Ideally the pattern captures not only the fit, but also the flair intended by the designer.\n\nPatternmaking is taught in conjunction with fashion design education, as it is vital for designers to understand the apparel development process. It is also taught as a major at certain trade schools. There are many books on the subject, but it is rare for a patternmaker to become a professional through teaching oneself. Apprenticeships are almost unheard of in modern America, but would serve well to improve the transition from student to professional status. Because this occupation is relatively unknown outside of the apparel industry, there is a serious lack of patternmakers who can accurately interpret designs in Los Angeles, and possibly other fashion capitals.\n\n \nFoundry patternmakers have historically been woodworkers with skills of a woodcarver, woodturner, and cabinet maker. When an object is made from cast iron, cast aluminum or any liquified metal the patternmaker is employed to make a wood model of the object. The original pattern has to be made slightly larger as metal shrinks when it cools and often the pattern made in puzzle like parts as the sand mold must be \"rammed up\" in a certain manner and the parts of the pattern must be removed from the sand mold without altering the negative space which is left behind in the sand. Pattern makers also have evolved into cutting negative spaces into blocks of steel where sheet metal will be pressed between two matching shapes. A dinner fork is a good example. \nA block of steel is made to mirror the back of the fork and a block of steel is made to mirror the top of the fork.\n\n"}
{"id": "51315291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51315291", "title": "Paua House", "text": "Paua House\n\nThe Paua House was a tourist attraction in the southern New Zealand town of Bluff, but now on display at the Canterbury Museum in Christchurch. \n\nThe Paua House was originally just a standard New Zealand bungalow located at 258 Marine Parade, Bluff. The house was owned by elderly couple Fred and Myrtle Flutey, who built up a massive collection of ornaments and trinkets made from the iridescent shells of the paua, a New Zealand species of abalone often used for souvenirs and items of kitsch. Over the course of some 40 years, the couple adorned the house with these ornaments, and also with the cleaned shells of paua found by the Fluteys on the local beach. By the time of the couple's deaths (Myrtle in 2000, Fred on New Year's Eve 2001) the walls of their lounge were covered with over 1,100 shells, and the Fluteys were playing host to thousands of visitors per year, with some reports suggesting one million people visited the house during the 37 years that the collection was built up.\n\nWhen the Fluteys died, the house was purchased by their grandson, Ross Bowen. Despite protests from locals who wished the house to stay in its shelled condition, Bowen loaned the Fluteys' collection to Canterbury Museum in Christchurch on a ten-year loan. Parts of the house were recreated by the museum and opened to the public in 2008. It was seen by some quarter of a million museum visitors in its first two years on display.\n"}
{"id": "1850174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850174", "title": "Philosophical language", "text": "Philosophical language\n\nA philosophical language is any constructed language that is constructed from first principles, like a logical language, but may entail a strong claim of absolute perfection or transcendent or even mystical truth rather than satisfaction of pragmatic goals. Philosophical languages were popular in Early Modern times, partly motivated by the goal of recovering the lost Adamic or Divine language. The term ideal language is sometimes used near-synonymously, though more modern philosophical languages such as Toki Pona are less likely to involve such an exalted claim of perfection. It may be known as a language of pure ideology. The axioms and grammars of the languages together differ from commonly spoken languages today. \n\nIn most older philosophical languages, and some newer ones, words are constructed from a limited set of morphemes that are treated as \"elemental\" or fundamental. \"Philosophical language\" is sometimes used synonymously with \"taxonomic language\", though more recently there have been several conlangs constructed on philosophical principles which are not taxonomic. Vocabularies of oligosynthetic languages are made of compound words, which are coined from a small (theoretically minimal) set of morphemes; oligoisolating languages, such as Toki Pona, similarly use a limited set of root words but produce phrases which remain series of distinct words. \n\nToki Pona is based on minimalistic simplicity, incorporating elements of Taoism. Láadan is designed to lexicalize and grammaticalize the concepts and distinctions important to women, based on muted group theory. \n\nA priori languages are constructed languages where the vocabulary is invented directly, rather than being derived from other existing languages (as with Esperanto or Ido). Philosophical languages are almost all a priori languages, but most \"a priori\" languages are not philosophical languages. For example, Quenya, Sindarin, and Klingon are all \"a priori\" but not philosophical languages: they are meant to seem like natural languages, even though they have no genetic relation to any natural languages.\n\nWork on philosophical languages was pioneered by Francis Lodwick (\"A Common Writing\", 1647; \"The Groundwork or Foundation laid (or So Intended) for the Framing of a New Perfect Language and a Universal Common Writing\", 1652), Sir Thomas Urquhart (\"Logopandecteision\", 1652), George Dalgarno (\"Ars signorum\", 1661), and John Wilkins (\"An Essay towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language\", 1668). Those were systems of hierarchical classification that were intended to result in both spoken and written expression. In 1855, English writer George Edmonds modified Wilkins' system, leaving its taxonomy intact, but changing the grammar, orthography and pronunciation of the language in an effort to make it easier to speak and to read.\n\nGottfried Leibniz created \"lingua generalis\" (or \"lingua universalis\") in 1678, aiming to create a lexicon of characters upon which the user might perform calculations that would yield true propositions automatically; as a side effect he developed binary calculus.\n\nThese projects aimed not only to reduce or model grammar, but also to arrange all human knowledge into \"characters\" or hierarchies. This idea ultimately led to the \"Encyclopédie\", in the Age of Enlightenment. Leibniz and the encyclopedists realized that it is impossible to organize human knowledge unequivocally as a tree, and so impossible to construct an \"a priori\" language based on such a classification of concepts. Under the entry \"Charactère\", D'Alembert critically reviewed the projects of philosophical languages of the preceding century. \n\nAfter the \"Encyclopédie\", projects for \"a priori\" languages moved more and more to the fringe. Individual authors, typically unaware of the history of the idea, continued to propose taxonomic philosophical languages until the early 20th century (for example, Ro). More recent philosophical languages have usually moved away from taxonomic schemata, such as 21st century Ithkuil by John Quijada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6584106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6584106", "title": "Pogolo language", "text": "Pogolo language\n\nThe Pogoro (also Pogolo) are an ethnic and linguistic peoples based in Iringa Region and Morogoro Region, Tanzania.\n\n"}
{"id": "1789237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789237", "title": "Sexual tension", "text": "Sexual tension\n\nSexual tension is a social phenomenon that occurs when two individuals interact and one or both feel sexual desire, but the consummation is postponed or never happens. A common scenario is where the two individuals function in close proximity, such as co-workers or in a group of friends, but do not have sex to avoid awkwardness or for other reasons. Sexual tension doesn't have anything to do with the actual act of sex but is everything that leads up to it.\n\nSexual tension can also occur when two individuals have previously had sexual relations and still feel an attraction towards each other, but do not wish to have sex again for fear of its effect on their current social situation (such as maintaining a relationship with a different partner). It can also be felt in situations when two individuals have a relationship devoid of physical contact, as in a long-distance relationship.\n\nSexual tension often occurs between individuals when the relationship is close and often flirtatious, yet the two people involved adamantly deny their feelings for each other. Meanwhile, it can appear extremely obvious to other friends or co-workers that such tension is present between the two individuals. When people give in to sexual tension, the relationship can become complicated and awkward if no new relationship level is established, as the relationship that existed before is no longer valid.\n\nSexual tension is a common feature in works of fiction. This longing is often suggested by incidents of intimacy; for example, when two characters are alone and in close proximity (or actually touching), yet desire is never explicitly expressed. Another common theme is for characters to develop an interest in each other over the course of the story, and if this is expertly done, the audience can become aware of the growing attraction.\n\nSexual tension intensifies the audience's involvement with all characters involved. However, as several television series have discovered to their sorrow, tension dissipates when characters come together in sexual harmony. It is not like violence, which establishes the villain's credibility and makes the next round of jeopardy even more powerful. Instead, sexual fulfillment has the same effect on sexual tension that the death of the victim has on jeopardy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1699889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699889", "title": "Signifyin'", "text": "Signifyin'\n\nSignifyin' (sometimes written \"signifyin(g)\") (vernacular), is a wordplay. It is a practice in African-American culture involving a verbal strategy of indirection that exploits the gap between the denotative and figurative meanings of words. A simple example would be insulting someone to show affection. Other names for signifyin' include: \"Dropping lugs, joaning, sounding, capping, snapping, dissing, busting, bagging, janking, ranking, toasting, woofing, putting on, or cracking.\" \n\nSignifyin' directs attention to the connotative, context-bound significance of words, which is accessible only to those who share the cultural values of a given speech community. The expression comes from stories about the Signifying Monkey, a trickster figure said to have originated during slavery in the United States.\n\nThe American literary critic Henry Louis Gates Jr. wrote in \"The Signifying Monkey\" (1988) that signifyin' is \"a trope, in which are subsumed several other rhetorical tropes, including metaphor, metonymy, synecdoche, and irony (the master tropes), and also hyperbole, litotes, and metalepsis. To this list we could easily add aporia, chiasmus, and catachresis, all of which are used in the ritual of Signifyin(g).\"\n\nRudy Ray Moore, known as \" Dolemite\", is well known for having used the term in his comedic performances. While Signifyin(g) is the term coined by Henry Louis Gates, Jr. to represent a black vernacular, the idea stems from the thoughts of Ferdinand De Saussure and the process of signifying--\"the association between words and the ideas they indicate.\" Gates states, \"’Signification,’ in Standard English, denotes the meaning that a term conveys, or is intended to convey.\" Gates takes this idea of signifying and \"doubles\" it in order to explain signifyin(g). He states of Black Vernacular, \"their complex act of language Signifies upon both formal language use and its conventions, conventions established, at least officially, by middle-class white people.\"\n\nGates examines the ways in which signifyin(g) differs from signifying.\n\nAccording to Gates, the practice derived from the Trickster archetype found in much African mythology, folklore, and religion: a god, goddess, spirit, man, woman, or anthropomorphic animal who plays tricks or otherwise disobeys normal rules and societal norms. In practice, signifyin' often takes the form of quoting from subcultural vernacular, while extending the meaning at the same time through a rhetorical figure.\n\nThe expression itself derives from the numerous tales about the Signifying Monkey, a folk trickster figure said to have originated during slavery in the United States. In most of these narratives, the Monkey manages to dupe the powerful Lion by signifying.\n\nThe term \"signifyin\"' itself currently carries a range of metaphorical and theoretical meanings in black cultural studies that stretch far beyond its literal scope of reference. In \"The Signifying Monkey\", Gates expands the term to refer not merely to a specific vernacular strategy but also to a trope of double-voiced repetition and reversal that exemplifies the distinguishing property of Black discourse. However, this subtle African-American device, if linguistically analyzed, becomes notoriously difficult to pin down, as Gates writes:\nThinking about the black concept of Signifiyin(g) is a bit like stumbling unaware into a hall of mirrors: the sign itself appears to be doubled, at the very least, and (re)doubled upon ever closer examination. It is not the sign itself, however, which has multiplied. If orientation prevails over madness, we soon realize that only the signifier has been doubled and (re)doubled, a signifier in this instance that is silent, a \"sound-image\" as Saussure defines the signifier, but a \"sound-image\" \"sans\" the sound. The difficulty that we experience when thinking about the nature of the visual (re)doubling at work in a hall of mirrors is analogous to the difficulty we shall encounter in relating the black linguistic sign, \"Signification,\" to the standard English sign, \"signification.\" This level of conceptual difficulty stems from – indeed, seems, to have been intentionally inscribed within – the selection of the signifier, \"signification.\" For the standard English word is a homonym of the Afro-American vernacular word. And, to compound the dizziness and giddiness that we must experience in the vertiginous movement between these two \"identical\" signifiers, these two homonyms have everything to do with each other and, then again, absolutely nothing.\nGates, in \"The Signifying Monkey and the Language of Signifyin(g)\" clarifies the confusing nature of the subject matter by representing the two terms on a graph made up of intercepting x-axis and a y-axis. The x-axis is represented by the Standard English we recognize and use within most professional and educational settings. Simply put, the x-axis is the literal definition of a word as represented by the masses and the term coined by Saussure. The y-axis, however, is represented by the term Signifyin(g) and is labelled as Black Vernacular. As Gates represents, \"the relation of signification itself has been critiqued by a black act of (re)doubling\" in which the point of intersection permits new understandings of a term to take place. Where the x-axis and y-axis intersect, the two meanings of the word collide to form a new meaning, so often represented by puns and tropes.\n\nBy viewing Signifyin(g) as a graph, such as Gates represents, the doubling nature of black vernacular becomes apparent. As Gates exhibits, \"the English-language use of signification refers to the chain of signifiers that configures horizontally,\" or all accepted definitions of a term as represented by Standard English. The y-axis of black vernacular, however, \"concerns itself with that which is suspended, vertically…the playful puns on a word that occupy the paradigmatic axis of language and which a speaker draws on for figurative substitution.\" A term may share a name but the definitions may be completely different.\n\nAn example of signifyin' is \"doing the Dozens.\" The Dozens is a game in which participants seek to outdo each other by throwing insults back and forth. Tom Kochman offered as an example in \"Rappin' and Stylin' Out: Communication in Urban Black America\" (1972): \"Yo momma sent her picture to the lonely hearts club, but they sent it back and said, 'We ain't that lonely!'\"\n\nCaponi describes \"calls, cries, hollers, riffs, licks, overlapping antiphony\" as examples of signifying in hip hop music and other African-American music. She explains that signifyin' differs from simple repetition and from simple variation in that it uses material:\n\nrhetorically or figuratively — through troping, in other words — by trifling with, teasing, or censuring it in some way. Signifyin(g) is also a way of demonstrating respect for, goading, or poking fun at a musical style, process, or practice through parody, pastische, implication, indirection, humor, tone- or word-play, the illusions of speech, or narration, and other troping mechanisms… Signifyin(g) shows, among other things, either reverence or irreverence toward previously stated musical statements and values.\"\n\nSchloss relates this to the ambiguity common to African musics, including looping (as of a sample), for \"it allows individuals to demonstrate intellectual power while simultaneously obscuring the nature and extent of their agency ... It allows producers to use other people's music to convey their own compositional ideas\".\n\nSeveral academics have argued that Black Twitter has become a form of signifyin'. Sarah Florini of the University of Wisconsin-Madison writes that race is normally tied to \"corporeal signifiers.\" Online, in the absence of the body, black users perform their racial identify using wordplay that only those with knowledge of black culture can fully recognize.\n\nClaudia Mitchell-Kernan, recognized as the first scholar to interject African American women's signifyin' practices into broader linguistic discourses, recorded the following example. Grace is pregnant and beginning to show, but has not informed her sister yet. Her sister, seemingly unaware of the situation, comments on her weight gain:\n\"Grace (noncommittally): Yes, I guess I am putting on a little weight. Rochelle: Now look here, girl, we both standing here soaking wet and you still trying to tell me it ain’t raining? \n\nRoger Matuz and Cathy Falk in their article \"Henry Louis Gates, Jr. and Current Debate in African-American Literary Criticism, An Introduction,\" explore the criticism that the term Signifyin(g) has faced since its introduction in Gates text, \"The Signifying Monkey: A Theory of African-American Literary Criticism.\" The main criticism that Gates faces is a confusion surrounding the ideas of a black literary theory informed by Western thought—the same thought that created a purpose for the term Signifyin(g). Gates responds to these critiques by arguing for \"text specific readings of black literature that explore works in relation to themselves and each other rather than viewing them as literal reflections of historical or social aspects of African American society.\" This conversation between texts is the redoubling that comprises Signifyin(g).\n\nJoyce A. Joyce states that Gates is too far removed from the Black experience: \"Black creative art is an act of love which attempts to destroy estrangement and elitism by demonstrating a strong fondness or enthusiasm for freedom and an affectionate concern for the life of people, especially black people…it should be the job of the Black literary critic to force ideas to the surface, to give them force in order to affect, to guide, to animate and to arouse the minds and emotions of black people.\"\n\nOther critics, however, support Gates and the term Signifyin(g), noting its \"subversive\" nature and ability to bring about change to a system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "843612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=843612", "title": "Smallville", "text": "Smallville\n\nSmallville is an American television series developed by writer-producers Alfred Gough and Miles Millar, based on the DC Comics character Superman created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. The series, initially broadcast by The WB, premiered on October 16, 2001. After \"Smallville\"s fifth season, The WB and UPN merged to form The CW, the series' later United States broadcaster. \"Smallville\", which ended its tenth and final season on May 13, 2011, follows Clark Kent (Tom Welling) in the fictional town of Smallville, Kansas, before he becomes known as Superman. The first four seasons focus on Clark and his friends in high school. After season five \"Smallville\" ventures into adult settings, eventually focusing on his career at the \"Daily Planet\" and introducing other DC comic-book superheroes and villains.\n\nBefore the series' production, \"Bruce Wayne\", chronicling the young protagonist's journey toward Batman, was proposed first. Although that series failed to generate interest, it inspired \"Smallville\". Series developers Gough and Millar pitched their \"no tights, no flights\" rule to the president of Warner Bros. Television, reducing Superman to the bare essentials and examining what led Clark Kent to become the Man of Steel. After seven seasons with the show, Gough and Millar departed with little explanation. \"Smallville\" was primarily filmed in and around Vancouver, British Columbia, with local businesses and buildings substituting for Smallville locations. Most of the music for the first six seasons was composed by Mark Snow, who incorporated elements of John Williams' musical score from the \"Superman\" film series. In season seven, Louis Febre (who worked with Snow from the beginning) became the series' primary composer.\n\n\"Smallville\" was generally positively received when it began. Former \"Superman\" star Christopher Reeve expressed approval for the series, making two guest appearances before his death. The pilot episode set a ratings record for a WB debut, with 8.4 million viewers. Over ten seasons the series averaged about 4.34 million viewers per episode, with season two the highest-rated at 6.3 million. By the end of its run, \"Smallville\" passed \"Stargate SG-1\" as the longest-running North American science-fiction series by episode count. Since its first season, the series received accolades ranging from Emmys to Teen Choice Awards. \"Smallville\" spawned a series of young-adult novels, a DC Comics bimonthly comic book, soundtrack recordings and series-related merchandise. All ten seasons are available on DVD in regions 1, 2 and 4. In April 2012, it continued in comic-book form with a storyline resuming shortly after the series finale, which ended in 2015.\n\nThe regular cast is introduced in season one, with storylines involving a villain deriving power from kryptonite exposure. The one-episode villains were a plot device developed by Gough and Millar. \"Smallville\"s first season primarily dealt with Clark Kent's coming to terms with his alien origin and the revelation that his arrival on Earth was connected to the death of Lana Lang's parents. After the first season the series had fewer villain-of-the-week episodes, focusing instead on individual-character story arcs and exploring Clark's origins. Major storylines include Clark's discovery of his Kryptonian heritage and Lex Luthor's escalating conflict with his father, Lionel. The disembodied voice of Clark's father, Jor-El, is introduced; he communicates to Clark through his spaceship, setting the stage for plots involving his role in fulfilling Clark's earthly destiny. In a fourth-season arc Clark, instructed by Jor-El, searches for three Kryptonian stones which contain the knowledge of the universe and form his Fortress of Solitude. Clark battles Brainiac in his attempts to release the Kryptonian criminal General Zod, and must capture (or destroy) other escaped Phantom Zone criminals. His cousin Kara arrives, and Lex Luthor discovers Clark's secret. The eighth season introduces Davis Bloome (\"Smallville\"s version of Doomsday), and Tess Mercer replaces the departing Lex Luthor. Justin Hartley becomes a series regular as Oliver Queen (Green Arrow) after being a recurring guest in season six. In the ninth season Major Zod (Callum Blue) and other members of Zod's military group are revived (without their Kryptonian powers) by Tess Mercer, and their efforts to regain their powers are the season's central conflict. The final season revolves around Clark's attempts to lose his doubts and fears and become the hero he is meant to be, while confronting his biggest challenges: the coming of Darkseid and the return of Lex Luthor.\n\n\n\nTollin/Robbins Productions originally wanted to do a series about a young Bruce Wayne, but the feature-film division of Warner Bros. decided to develop an origin movie for Batman and did not want to compete with a television series. In 2000 Tollin/Robbins approached Peter Roth, president of Warner Bros. Television, about developing a series on a young Superman. That year, Alfred Gough and Miles Millar developed a pilot based on the film \"Eraser\". After watching the pilot, Roth approached Gough and Millar about developing a pilot about a young Superman; the two made a \"no tights, no flights\" rule that Clark would not fly or wear the Superman suit during the series.\n\nGough and Millar wanted to strip Superman to his \"bare essence\", exploring why Clark Kent became the Man of Steel. They felt that because they were not comic-book fans or familiar with the universe, they would have an unbiased approach to the series. Gough and Millar learned about the characters, researching the comics and choosing what they liked. They pitched their idea to The WB and Fox on the same day. A bidding war between the networks followed, with The WB committing to thirteen episodes.\n\nAlthough Roth, Gough and Millar knew the show would be action-oriented, they wanted to reach \"7th Heaven\"s \"middle America iconography\". To create atmosphere, the team decided the meteor shower bringing Clark to Earth would be the ironic foundation of the show. The primary source of his life on Earth and the super-powered beings Clark must fight, it would take away the parents of the girl he loves and start Lex Luthor down a dark path. Roth appreciated Clark's conflict in dealing with the fact that his arrival caused so much pain.\n\nThe creators also had to address why Lex Luthor would socialize with young people. They created a loneliness in the character which they felt would drive him to reach out to the teenagers, a loneliness echoed in Clark and Lana. Gough and Millar wanted a parallel to the Kents and created Lionel Luthor, Lex's father, whom they saw as conducting an \"experiment in extreme parenting.\" They wanted a younger Kent couple, to be involved in Clark's life and help him on his journey. Chloe Sullivan (another character created for the series) was considered the \"outsider\" the show needed to ensure that someone would notice the strange happenings in Smallville rather than a \"precursor to Lois Lane\".\n\n\"Smallville\" has been described by Warner Bros. as a from-the-roots reinterpretation of Superman mythology. Since the November 2004 reacquisition of Superboy by the Siegel family, a copyright infringement dispute has arisen over ownership of the fictional town of Smallville and a claimed similarity between Superboy and \"Smallville\"s Clark Kent. According to the Siegel heirs, \"\"Smallville\" is part of the Superboy copyright\" (which they hold).\n\nOn April 3, 2008, after seven seasons with the series, Gough and Millar announced that they were leaving \"Smallville\". The developers thanked the cast and crew for their work, acknowledging that they never stopped fighting for what they saw as \"their vision\" of the show. A reason for their departure was not provided. Gough and Millar were replaced as showrunners by Todd Slavkin, Darren Swimmer, Kelly Souders and Brian Peterson. All began writing for the series at the start of the second season, and were executive producers by the seventh season. On February 6, 2009, after one season, the \"L.A. Times\" confirmed that Swimmer and Slavkin would take over the new CW series \"Melrose Place\" and not return for \"Smallville\"s ninth season; Souders and Peterson would continue as showrunners. On July 24, 2009, it was reported Tom Welling was a co-executive producer of the series. On March 26, 2010, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" disclosed that Millar, Gough and co-producer Tollin/Robins Productions filed a lawsuit against Warner Bros. and The CW charging that Hollywood's \"vertical integration\" cost Millar and Gough millions of dollars. The suit claimed that Warner Bros. failed to \"maximize profits\" in marketing \"Smallville\", misrepresented production costs and sold the show to foreign markets at \"well below the value of the series\", not specifying the amount of compensation sought by the plaintiffs. In a May 20, 2010 press release from The CW, Tom Welling was appointed an executive producer for \"Smallville\"s tenth season.\n\nThe series was produced at BB Studios in Burnaby, British Columbia. Although production was initially planned for Australia, Vancouver had more of a \"Middle America landscape\". The city provided a site for the Kent farm, doubled for Metropolis, provided a cheaper shooting location and was in the Los Angeles time zone. Smallville's Main Street is a combination of two locations in the town of Merritt and Cloverdale.\n\nVancouver Technical School doubled as the exterior for Smallville High, since the school had the \"mid-American largess\" wanted by the filmmakers and was in keeping with Millar's idea that Smallville should be the epitome of \"Smalltown, USA\". Templeton Secondary School was used for Smallville High's interior.<ref name=\"locations school/\"></ref> During season one, the production team repainted most of Templeton in Smallville High's red and yellow and distributed large Smallville High Crows logos; so much of the school was painted that it adopted red and yellow as its school colors. The students became accustomed to the film crew (which had to shoot when school was in session), and when a class was dismissed the crew stepped aside so the students could move the equipment to get to their lockers for the next class.\n\nThe Kent farm is a working farm in Aldergrove. Owned by the Anderlinis, the crew painted their home yellow for the show. Exterior shots of Luthor Mansion were filmed at Hatley Castle in Victoria. The interiors were filmed at Shannon Mews in Vancouver, also the set for the \"Dark Angel\" pilot and the film \"Along Came a Spider\". Clova Cinema, in Cloverdale was used for exteriors of the Talon, \"Smallville\"s coffeehouse.\n\nThe series made extensive use of Steadicam and crane shots. Some episodes also featured camera shots from helicopters.\n\nThe story is told from Clark's point of view, so color schemes and camera selection illustrate how he interprets his environment. When he is safe at home, the colors are \"warm and gentle\" earth tones and the camera movement is \"very gentle\". When Clark is keeping his secret and not in danger, the lighting is more neutral and the camera more mobile. When danger is present, the lighting becomes colder and the camera is handheld to allow for more \"extreme angles\". In Metropolis \"clean, hard-lined architecture\" predominates, with blues, purples and reflective metals the dominant scheme. The same concept is used for the characters; Lex usually has a \"glass, steel background\", and Lionel has a white or \"clinical blue\" background. Lex typically wears black, grey and \"cool tones\" (purples and blues). Clark is represented by red, yellow and blue, similar to the traditional Superman costume, and \"All-American\" red, white and blue. From season two onward, Entity FX produced all of the visual effects for \"Smallville\", including the view of the Metropolis skyline.\n\nComposer Mark Snow worked with producer Ken Horton to create \"Smallville\"s score. Snow composed music as he watched the picture, and tweaked his performance when he reviewed his initial recordings. He then sent the music to the producers, who sent it back for recomposition if needed. Individual episodes have their own soundtrack, comprising one (or more) songs. Jennifer Pyken and Madonna Wade-Reed of Daisy Music looked for songs for the soundtrack. Their choices were discussed by the producers, who decided which songs they wanted and secured their rights. Although Snow said it initially seemed odd to combine two types of music on a \"typical action-adventure\" television show, \"the producers seem to like the contrast of the modern songs and the traditional, orchestral approach to the score\".\n\nThe main \"Smallville\" theme was not composed by Snow, although he composed opening themes for other shows (including \"The X-Files\"). The series' opening music is \"Save Me\" by Remy Zero. Snow composed the closing-credits music, which was intended as \"Smallville\"s theme. During the first two seasons, the closing-credits music was a potential theme for the series (before \"Save Me\" was selected); it was more \"heroic\" and \"in-your-face\". Snow was told during season two that the closing credits needed new music, since the show had evolved and the existing music was no longer suitable, and he created a new, toned-down score with a more \"melodic\" sound. Snow has also reworked music from the previous \"Superman\" films. John Williams' musical score for the Krypton sequence in the opening credits of \"Superman\" was used in season two's \"Rosetta\" (which featured a guest appearance by Christopher Reeve) and several times in the season-two finale. To save money Snow recorded his version of Williams' score, since using the original version would have required the team to pay Williams' orchestra.\n\nIn an interview with Randall Larson on May 23, 2008 Snow said that he would not be returning to \"Smallville\", citing the joint workload of \"Smallville\" and \"Ghost Whisperer\", but would return for \"Ghost Whisperer\". Reminiscing about his work on the show, Snow said that much of the music had not changed during the series and agreed with Larson that it was \"more [about] maintaining the heroic concept and the mythology than progressing through specific changes\". Louis Febre, who worked closely with Snow from the beginning, became the sole composer for \"Smallville\" in season seven. Febre said that since he began composing for \"Smallville\" there was a shift to \"thematic development\" in the score, paralleling the characters' growth: \"As Clark grew emotionally and intellectually more complex, I found a need to comment musically on his growth, and as he drew closer to his Superman persona, it became obvious that a 'Superman' theme would be required.\"\n\nThe creative team had a number of opportunities to try different music to enhance an episode's storyline. Pyken and Wade-Reed chose and coordinated music on the show when Snow and Febre's scores were not used. In season three's \"Slumber\", producer Ken Horton wondered if they could get a band to provide music for the entire episode. During a breakfast meeting with the music department of Warner Bros. R.E.M. was suggested, and Pyken and Wade-Reed immediately saw an opportunity to connect the episode's featured band with its story (which revolved around REM sleep). That season, Al Gough wanted to use Johnny Cash's cover of the Nine Inch Nails song \"Hurt\" for the final scene of \"Shattered\" (when Lionel Luthor looks at Lex through a one-way mirror at Belle Reve sanitarium) as soon as he read the episode's script. Cash died while Wade-Reed was trying to obtain the rights for the song and his heirs, believing that the song's use in the episode would honor his memory, gave \"Smallville\" the rights.\n\nFor season three's \"Resurrection\" and \"Memoria\", songs were chosen as symbolism for the characters. In \"Resurrection\", The Rapture's \"Infatuation\" was used during a scene with Lex and Lana to symbolize the question, \"Are we ever going to figure out what these two people think of each other?\" For \"Memoria\" Gough wanted to use Evanescence's \"My Immortal\" for the episode's final scene, telling Wade-Reed that he saw the song as being about mothers. In that scene Clark tells Martha that his first childhood memory was of his mother, Lara.\n\nSeason three's \"Velocity\" provided the music editors with the opportunity to use hip-hop, rarely used in the series. The episode, similar to \"The Fast and the Furious\", focused on Pete. Wade-Reed heard of British hip-hop artist Dizzee Rascal, and was the first person in the United States to secure the rights to Rascal's album. Greg Beeman directs episodes, and sometimes scenes, with particular songs in mind. For \"Vortex\" in season two, he used Coldplay's \"In My Place\" for the final scene. In the season-two finale \"Exodus\", Beeman directed the scene where Lana shows up at the Kent barn before Lex's wedding to Matthew Good's \"Weapon\". The lyrics speak of an angel and devil \"by my side\", and Beeman timed specific shots to the song's lyrics.\n\n\"Smallville\" premiered at 9:00 pm on Tuesday, October 16, 2001 on The WB. For the next five seasons the series aired on The WB, moving from Tuesday at 9:00 pm to Wednesday at 8:00 pm and eventually to Thursday at 8:00 pm. In 2006, before the start of \"Smallville\"s sixth season, it was announced The WB and UPN would merge into The CW and the network reported that the series would continue in its lineup. During its seventh season, the series aired in Canada a day earlier than it did in the United States. On May 21, 2009 it was announced that \"Smallville\"s ninth season would move to Friday at 8:00 pm, considered the \"death slot\" for television programs. By the end of its tenth season it was the longest-running science-fiction TV show in the United States, breaking the record held by \"Stargate SG-1\". Syndication rights became available in 2011, and TNT began airing episodes on October 3, 2011. \"Smallville\" began streaming on Hulu on October 1, 2016.\n\n\"Smallville\" set a WB record as its highest-rated series debut, with 8.4 million viewers tuned in for the pilot. Its premiere set a WB record for adults aged 18–34 and finished first among viewers aged 12–34, with Warner Bros. president Jordan Levin crediting the series with invigorating the network's Tuesday-night lineup. \"Smallville\" appeared on the cover of \"Entertainment Weekly\" as one of five new shows to watch. After its first season, the series was sixth on the Parents Television Council's 10-best list of broadcast programs. Levin, acknowledging early concerns that \"Smallville\" had become a villain of the week series, said that season two would introduce \"smaller mini-arcs over three to four episodes\" and become less of a \"serialized show\". According to Gough, although each succeeding season relied more on season-long story arcs, an occasional villain-of-the-week story was necessary. The villain-of-the-week stories were more harshly criticized by fans of the Superman mythology, but Gough wanted to please them and The WB's general audience (teenagers who preferred villain-of-the-week stories over episodes focusing on the Superman mythology).\n\nChristopher Reeve, star of the \"Superman\" films, expressed his approval of the show:I was a little bit skeptical when I heard about [\"Smallville\"] at first, but I must say the writing, the acting, and the special effects are quite remarkable. In 1977, a big stunt scene would have taken us a week to film—it's pretty impressive what they are able to do with computers and effects technology today on a weekly TV show. It gives it a lot more production value and inventiveness than I thought I was going to see when I first heard about the series. I think the show is doing a really good job following the mythology, and Tom is doing a good job following the tradition.\n\nAccording to MTV's Karl Heitmueller, \"Smallville's\" Clark Kent was a better representation of the original material and remained \"true to the heart of the story\" by showing Clark's selflessness and his struggle between his desires and his obligations. However, Heitmueller wrote that the series would have a difficult time addressing why no one in Smallville (including Lex Luthor) recognized Clark when he put on the suit. TV Guide's Michael Schneider called it one of the best examples of a superhero adaptation for television, but Christopher Hooton of \"Metro\" wrote that \"Smallville\" was a story which did not need to be told: \"No-one bothered to follow Bruce Wayne's tedious years spent manufacturing microchips before he became Batman, so why must we endure a decade of flannel shirt-wearing Clark Kent bucking hay?\"\n\nA table of season rankings, based on average total estimated viewers per episode, of \"Smallville\" on The WB and The CW follows. \"Rank\" is the series' ratings compared to other prime time TV series.\n\nDuring its ten seasons, \"Smallville\" won awards ranging from Emmys to Teen Choice Awards. In 2002, the series won an Emmy for Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series for its pilot episode. Four years later, it received an Emmy for Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series for the fifth-season episode \"Arrival\". In 2008, \"Smallville\" again won an Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series Emmy for season seven's \"Bizarro\".\n\n\"Smallville\" has received a number of Leo Awards. Make-up artist Natalie Cosco won two Leo Awards for Best Make-Up: for her work in the fourth-season episode \"Scare\" and in the sixth season's \"Hydro\" and \"Wither\". At the 2006 Leo Awards, Barry Donlevy won Best Cinematography in a Dramatic Series for his work on the fourth-season episode \"Spirit\" and David Wilson won Best Production Design in a Dramatic Series for \"Sacred\". \"Smallville's\" sixth season won a Best Dramatic Series Leo. James Marshall won Best Direction for \"Zod\", Caroline Cranstoun won Best Costume Design for her work on \"Arrow\" and James Philpott won Best Production Design for \"Justice\". In 2008, \"Smallville\" won Leos for Best Dramatic Series and Best Cinematography. The visual-effects team was recognized for its work on the pilot with a 2002 Best Visual Effects Leo, and received 2004 VES Awards for Outstanding Compositing in a Televised Program, Music Video or Commercial for the second season's \"Accelerate\" and Outstanding Matte Painting in a Televised Program, Music Video, or Commercial for \"Insurgence\".\n\nIn 2002 the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers honored composer Mark Snow and Remy Zero, who provided the opening song \"Save Me\", for their contributions to the series; the award was given to individuals who wrote the theme (or underscore) for the highest-rated television series in 2001 for their network. The American Society of Cinematographers awarded David Moxness for the sixth season's \"Arrow\", giving Glen Winter the same award the following year for his work on \"Noir\". Series regulars have also won awards; in 2001, Michael Rosenbaum won a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor, and Tom Welling won a Teen Choice Award for Choice Breakout TV Star — Male in 2002. Allison Mack won the Teen Choice Best Sidekick award in 2006 and 2007, and in 2009 Welling received the Choice TV Actor Action Adventure award.\n\n\"Smallville\" has generated other media and spinoffs, from young-adult novels and comic books to Internet-based mini-episodes with characters from the series. It influenced the British TV series, \"Merlin\".\n\nTwo series of novels have been published since \"Smallville\"s second season. A series of eight young-adult novels was published by Aspect Publishing from October 2002 to March 2004, and a second series of ten young-adult novels was published by Little, Brown Young Readers from October 2002 to April 2004. A bimonthly comic-book series, which often tied into the series, was also published.\n\nThree novels were published on October 1, 2002: one by Aspect and two by Little, Brown Young Readers. The Aspect novel (\"Smallville: Strange Visitors\") was written by Roger Stern, with Clark and his friends trying to uncover the truth about two religious con men who set up shop in Smallville and use kryptonite in their spiritual seminars to rob the townspeople. Little, Brown Young Readers first published \"Arrival\" by Michael Teitelbaum, chronicling the series' pilot. The second novel (\"See No Evil\", by series writers Cherie Bennett and Jeff Gottesfeld) follows Dawn Mills, a young actress who wants to attend Juilliard. Dawn, who can become invisible, wants to get revenge on the people who have been talking behind her back but is stopped by Clark. \"See No Evil\" was one of the original storylines for season one's \"Shimmer\".\n\nOn November 1, 2002 Aspect published Alan Grant's \"Smallville: Dragon\", about an ex-convict who assumes the abilities and appearance of a dragon after he is exposed to kryptonite in a cave; the mutation drives him to try to kill everyone who testified against him. In the novel, Clark is hypnotized into believing that he is a normal teenager with no special abilities. A month after the publication of Grant's novel Bennett and Gottesfeld wrote Little, Brown Young Readers' \"Flight\", about a young girl (Tia) who Clark discovers has wings. He and his friends believe that Tia is being abused by her father, and teach her to overcome her fear of flying so she can find her mother. \"Flight\" (like \"See No Evil\") was a planned episode, but the crew was uncertain that they could get the flying effects right and the idea was scrapped. Nancy Holder wrote the third novel in the Aspect series. Published on January 1, 2003, \"Hauntings\" follows Clark and his friends as they investigate a ghostly presence in a Smallville house. Little, Brown Young Readers then published \"Animal Rage\" by David and Bobby Weiss, about animal-rights activist Heather Fox (who can change into any animal she touches). Heather uses this ability to harm people who hurt animals until Clark discovers it and stops her. Aspect published Dean Wesley Smith's \"Whodunit\", in which Clark, Chloe, Lana and Pete investigate the murder of a boy and his sister while Lex tries to decide whether to ransom his kidnapped father or try rescuing Lionel himself.\n\nLittle, Brown Young Readers published the next two books in April and June 2003. The first, \"Speed\", was written by Cherie Bennett and Jeff Gottesfeld. The second, \"Buried Secrets\", was written by Suzan Colon. In \"Speed\", a boy uses an hourglass his father gave him for his birthday to stop time and commit hate crimes without being caught. Clark stops him before he disrupts a local multicultural festival. In \"Buried Secrets\" Clark and Lex fall in love with a mind-reading substitute Spanish teacher, jeopardizing their friendship.\n\nOn September 9, 2004 Aspect published Diana G. Gallagher's \"Shadows\", about a girl and her father who move to Smallville; the father creates murderous monsters. Jonathan Kent assumes that the deaths are related to LuthorCorp, creating tension with his son. Clark discovers the truth to prove Lex's innocence, stopping the creatures before they can kill again. Colon returned to write \"Runaway\", in which Clark runs away to the city and lives with other homeless teenagers; he falls in love with one of the girls before returning home. In \"Smallville: Silence\" by Nancy Holder, the characters investigate zombies in town. Little, Brown Young Readers published its eighth book, \"Greed\", by Bennett and Gottesfeld in which Clark and his friends take summer jobs as counselors at a camp for disadvantaged youths. When a boy falls into Crater Lake, he develops the ability to foretell the future and Lionel tries to exploit this. Pete also tries to exploit Clark's abilities by tricking him into playing in a basketball game and betting on the outcome.\n\nAlan Grant returned to write \"Curse\", about a gravedigger who unleashes a 150-year-old curse onto Smallville and Clark's attempts to put things right. On February 1, 2004 Little, Brown Young Readers published Suzan Colon's \"Temptation\", where Clark uses red kryptonite in an attempt to impress Lana and Chloe when they are infatuated with a French exchange student. Aspect published its final novel on March 1, 2004. Written by Devin K. Grayson, \"City\" follows Clark and Lex on a trip to Metropolis. In the city, they are caught between the Japanese mafia and a secret agent who thinks he has found an alien. In Little, Brown Young Readers' final novel, \"Sparks\" by Cherie Bennett and Jeff Gottesfeld, Chloe is hit by kryptonite sparks from a fireworks display. The sparks make Chloe the desire of every man, but when they wear off an admirer kidnaps her and she is rescued by Clark.\n\n\"Smallville\"s first venture into comics was \"Elemental\", a one-off story by Gough and Millar which appeared in \"TV Guide\" during the series' first season and set in that period. Before the start of season two, DC Comics published a one-off comic based on the series. Entitled \"Smallville: The Comic\", it has two stories. The first, \"Raptor\" by Mark Verheiden and Roy Martinez, is about an abused boy who mutates into a raptor (thanks to kryptonite) and tries to get revenge on the Luthor family. Michael Green and John Paul Leon wrote \"Exile and The Kingdom\", with insight into why Lex remains in Smallville after his father offers him a position in Metropolis at the end of season one. DC Comics then began publishing a bimonthly comic with stories about \"Smallville\" characters. Writer and script coordinator Clint Carpenter called the comic a companion to the series rather than a non-canonical version. According to Carpenter, the series expands on events in the series (such as season-ending cliffhangers) and gives \"additional depth\" to characters with limited screen time on the series or whose storylines needed additional explanation.\nCarpenter was not the first person asked to oversee the comic; Mark Verheiden, who co-wrote the one-off comic, was originally intended to be in charge of the bimonthly series. Verheiden's commitment to the TV series kept him from working on the comic books, so he asked Carpenter if he would take them on. Although the comic book was intended to expand on the TV series, there was an occasional continuity overlap because of differences in production schedule between the comic and the series. In one instance, the comic book showed Clark robbing an ATM and the season-three premiere showed him robbing multiple ATMs. The series tied into the TV series, the \"Chloe Chronicles\" webisodes and \"Smallville\"-related webpages, with cast and crew interviews and information on the episodes' production. The comic series ended in January 2005 with #11, with no comics published until the Season Eleven series debut.\n\nThe first digital issue of a \"Smallville Season Eleven\" comic book was released on April 13, 2012; the first print issue was published on May 2, 2012. In the comic book (written by \"Smallville\" executive story editor Bryan Q. Miller), set six months after Darkseid's attack, Clark no longer fights crime as \"The Blur\" but as \"Superman\". Although Clark is generally accepted by the public, some distrust him (including Lex Luthor, despite his memory loss after his encounter with Tess Mercer). \"TV Guide\" reported that \"Detective\", a new series of adventures paralleling the TV series and the comic series' second arc, would be published digitally on the title's off-week beginning January 4, 2013. A new arc, \"Effigy\", would feature a team-up of recurring character John Jones and Batman. DC Comics cancelled the series after nineteen issues at the end of the \"Olympus\" story arc, with the rest of the season-eleven story continuing as miniseries under the \"Season Eleven\" banner. On March 11, 2015, DC Comics ended the \"Smallville Season Eleven\" with story arc \"Continuity\", which serves as the finale of the television franchise.\n\nAllison Mack's character, Chloe Sullivan, has starred in two promotional tie-in series: \"Smallville: Chloe Chronicles\", and \"Vengeance Chronicles\". Two volumes of \"Chloe Chronicles\" totaled eleven mini-episodes. In the first volume Chloe investigated events leading to the death of Earl Jenkins, who held Chloe and her friends hostage at the LuthorCorp plant in the first-season episode \"Jitters\". It aired from April 29 to May 20, 2003 to AOL subscribers. After the first volume received positive responses from viewers, the second volume was created as a continuation with Sam Jones III as Pete Ross. This volume used the \"Smallville\" comic books as a secondary tie-in to the series. Viewers could watch \"Smallville\", \"Chloe's Chronicles\" and finish with the \"Smallville\" comic book, which would provide an \"enhanced backstory to the online segments\". The later series, \"Vengeance Chronicles\", is a spinoff of the fifth-season episode \"Vengeance\". In this series Chloe joins a costumed vigilante, whom she calls the \"Angel of Vengeance\", to expose Lex Luthor's Level 33.1 experiments on meteor-infected people.\n\nThe idea for an online show about Chloe originated with Mark Warshaw, who ran the show's website and was in charge of the DVDs. The series intended to wrap up \"unfinished business\" from the television show. Although \"Smallville: Chloe Chronicles\" began on AOL, it made its way to the United Kingdom's Channel 4 website. According to Lisa Gregorian, senior vice president for television of Warner Bros. Marketing Services, \"Our goal is to create companion programming that offers new and exciting ways to engage the audience, just as music videos did for record promotion.\" Allison Mack described the show as \"very Nancy Drew and mysterious\": \"I think it's a bit more like \"The X-Files\" or \"NYPD Blue\". The Chronicles are like a detective story, with Chloe following clues and interviewing people, going from spot to spot, figuring things out.\" The scripts were written by Brice Tidwell; Mack was given script approval for the series, allowing her to review and make changes to the script. Warshaw communicated with Gough and Millar to expand \"Smallville\" stories in \"Chloe's Chronicles\".\n\nFor the season-three premiere, the \"Smallville\" producers teamed up with Verizon to enable its registered users to view plot updates (as \"Daily Planet\" press releases), quizzes and games related to the show with Verizon product placement. \"Smallville Legends: The Oliver Queen Chronicles\", a six-episode CGI series which chronicled the early life of Oliver Queen/Green Arrow, was released in a promotional tie-in with Sprint. According to Warner Bros. Television Group executive vice-president of worldwide marketing Lisa Gregorian, the promotional tie-ins got fans more connected to the show. On April 19, 2007 a tie-in with Toyota promoting the Yaris featured an online comic strip, \"Smallville Legends: Justice & Doom\", as an interstitial program during new \"Smallville\" episodes. The interactive comic was based on the \"Justice\" episode, which follows Oliver Queen, Bart Allen, Victor Stone and Arthur Curry (the initial members of the \"Justice League\" in \"Smallville\") as they seek to destroy LuthorCorp's secret experimental labs. The online series allowed viewers to investigate with the fictional team to win prizes. Stephan Nilson wrote all five episodes, working with a team of artists on the illustrations. Nilson received the plot for each comic episode as \"Smallville\"s production crew was filming its current television episode. Artist Steve Scott drew comic-book panels which were sent to Motherland, a consulting group. Motherland reviewed the drawings, telling Scott which images to draw on a separate overlay; this allowed objects to be moved in and out of a frame.\n\nIn 2008 The CW joined the manufacturers of Stride gum to give viewers an opportunity to create their own \"Smallville\" digital comic, \"Smallville: Visions\". The writers and producers developed the comic's beginning and end, allowing viewers to provide the middle. The CW began its tie-in campaign with the March 13, 2008 episode \"Hero\", where Pete develops superhuman elasticity after chewing kryptonite-infused Stride gum. On The CW's website, viewers voted on one of two options (each adding four pages to the comic) every Tuesday and Thursday until the campaign ended on April 7. In season seven \"Smallville\" again worked with Sprint, bringing its customers \"mobisodes\" entitled \"Smallville Legends: Kara and the Chronicles of Krypton\" with Clark's cousin Kara.\n\nGough and Millar developed an \"Aquaman\" pilot for The WB, with Justin Hartley as Aquaman (Arthur Curry). As work progressed on the \"Smallville\" season-five episode \"Aqua\", although the episode was not intended as a backdoor pilot for an Aquaman spin-off the character was seen as having potential for his own series. Alan Ritchson was not considered for the role in the new series, because Gough and Millar did not consider it a \"Smallville\" spin-off. Gough said in November 2005, \"[The series] is going to be a different version of the 'Aquaman' legend\" and suggested a crossover with \"Smallville\" at some point. Although the pilot was given a good chance of being picked up, when The WB and UPN merged into The CW the new network passed on the show.\n\nDuring the sixth season there was talk of spinning off the Green Arrow into his own series, but Hartley refused to talk about the possibility of a spin-off because of his role on \"Smallville\". The actor felt it his duty to respect what the show had accomplished in five seasons, and not \"steal the spotlight\" because there was \"talk\" of a spin-off after his two appearances. According to Hartley, \"talking\" was as far as the spin-off idea ever got.\n\nSeasons one through ten have been released on DVD in Regions 1, 2 and 4. Seasons five and six were also released in the now-obsolete HD DVD format on November 28, 2006 and September 18, 2007, respectively. Seasons six, seven, eight, nine and ten have been released for Blu-ray. The DVD releases include deleted scenes, behind-the-scenes featurettes and commentary by cast and crew members on selected episodes. The promotional tie-ins \"Chloe Chronicles\" and \"Vengeance Chronicles\" accompanied the season two, three and five box sets. Other special features include interactive functionality (such as a tour of Smallville), a comic book and DVD-ROM material.\n\nSince \"Smallville\" began airing, a variety of merchandise connected with the series has been produced. Two soundtrack albums of songs from the show have been released. On February 25, 2003 \"Smallville: The Talon Mix\", with a group of artists who licensed their music for the show, was issued. \"Smallville: The Metropolis Mix\", with another group of artists, was released on November 8, 2005. In addition to the soundtracks, action figures, T-shirts, hats and posters have been produced. In December 2002 autographed \"Smallville\" merchandise was listed for auction on eBay, with the proceeds going to charity. In 2003, Titan Magazines began publishing a monthly \"Smallville\" magazine with cast and crew interviews, information on \"Smallville\" merchandise and photos. The 34th and final issue was published in November 2009.\n\nTitan Books published companion volumes for each season with cast and crew interviews, episode descriptions and behind-the-scenes photos. On September 1, 2004, the company published its first companion for the series. Written by Paul Simpson, the book has sixteen pages of color photos of the cast. On March 1, 2005 Titan Books published its season-two companion, also written by Simpson, which details the series' special effects. Titan published the third-season companion on September 1, the last written by Simpson. He described the episodes' plots, discussing the neglect of the Martha Kent character and the failure of the Adam Knight storyline. Titan Books released the fourth-season companion by Craig Byrne, who wrote the subsequent companion books, on September 4, 2007. It contains interviews with the cast and crew and color photos of the production. Titan published the season-five companion on December 26, 2007. The season-six companion, with an introduction by Justin Hartley, was published on March 25, 2008. The season-seven companion (Titan's last) has a foreword by Laura Vandervoort, a reflection on the \"\"Smallville\" phenomenon\" and a discussion of Gough and Millar's departure.\n\nIn 2010, the Smallville Roleplaying Game was released by Margaret Weis Productions using its Cortex Plus System. Using the series' season-nine setting, it includes rules for earlier seasons. Two supplements, the High School Yearbook and the Watchtower Report, were produced. Players can play the characters from \"Smallville\", or create their own spin-off of the series. On May 15, 2013 \"Ultimate Smallville Soundtrack\", a five-CD box set with 100 songs from the series' 10 seasons, was released by Vicious Records with all profits benefiting the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8124813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8124813", "title": "Some Like It Hot (novel)", "text": "Some Like It Hot (novel)\n\nSome Like It Hot is a novel in the \"A-List\" series by Zoey Dean. It was released in 2006 by Little, Brown.\n\nIt's Prom time at Beverly Hills High! Ben Birnbaum is back from Princeton University for the summer but also visiting is a friend of his family's. Maddy, a junior at the rival Pacific Palisades high school who has just had Gastric bypass surgery is staying with the Birnbaums, and to Anna Percy's disdain, has quite the newly curvy figure and seems to be flirty with Ben. Ben assures Anna that he thinks of Maddy as a little sister but Anna isn't sure and acts rather coldly to the girl throughout the novel. Anna feels ashamed for actually getting jealous so she asks Sam and the rest of the A-list crew to give her a makeover. In the end, it is revealed that Maddy has a crush on one of her teachers.\n\nMeanwhile, the Beverly Hills High School Prom is being thrown by two A-list wannabes, Jazz and Fee (short for Jasmine and Ophelia, respectively). No one is excited because it means the prom will be just as lame as them but Sam gets the idea to shoot a short documentary about the drama of organizing a high school prom to enter anonymously in a film contest, to prove once and for all that she can stand outside of her father's shadow. To her surprise, Sam begins to feel a sense of kinsmen ship to the two girls and when the prom location is lost, she generously secures the colosseum set being used for her father's remake of . Sam invites Eduardo to be her date but he is unavailable due to his commitments at the Peruvian consulate so Sam invites Parker, as friends.\n\nProm is amazing, especially since Dee is released from Ojai, the rehab center/mental hospital she was committed to in Back in Black. However, she is dateless so Cammie sets her up on a blind date with Jack Walker, a friend from Princeton who is in L.A. and is hoping to break into reality television. The two hit it off at prom and to thank Sam for helping organize an awesome prom, the entire student body elects Sam prom queen but she is slightly dismayed as she can't enter her film anonymously anymore.\n\nAt the post-prom party, Sam and Parker share a kiss before getting caught by Eduardo, who left his parents' anniversary party to surprise Sam. He is hurt and breaks it off, despite Sam's pleading.\n\nAlso throughout the novel, Cammie begins investigating the circumstances of her mother's death with the help of Adam, who grows increasingly worried for her. The two discover the police report from the night her mother accidentally drowned and discover new information that they previously did not know: Dina and Jackson Sharpe were also on the boat. It was said in the report that Dina was having an affair with her father, Clarke. Cammie suspects that the two conspired to get rid of her mother. She tells Sam this new information and Sam insists on helping out as well.\n"}
{"id": "17926358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17926358", "title": "Spirit house (Dakelh)", "text": "Spirit house (Dakelh)\n\nSpirit houses are above-ground structures used by some of the Carrier people of Northern British Columbia (for example, Nazko) for burial rites and rituals. The Spirit Houses contain artifacts family and clan members have deposited for their loved one's life on the other side and they are used to be unknown and have bad spirits in them.\n"}
{"id": "4064610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4064610", "title": "Stephen Foster Folk Culture Center State Park", "text": "Stephen Foster Folk Culture Center State Park\n\nStephen Foster Folk Culture Center State Park is a Florida State Park located in White Springs off U.S. 41, along the Suwannee River in north Florida.\n\nStephen Foster is famous for having written the song \"Old Folks At Home,\" also known as \"Way Down Upon the Suwannee River.\" The song, referring nostalgically to \"home far, far away,\" is Florida's state song.\n\nAmong the wildlife of the park are gopher tortoises, box turtles, American alligators, white-tailed deer, wood ducks, and a variety of birds.\n\nActivities include picnicking, hiking and bicycling, as well as horseback riding, canoeing, and wildlife viewing.\n\nAmenities include picnic tables, wooded trails, boat access to the Suwannee River, and riverside rental cabins.\n\nThere is a craft shop which sells Floridian and Southeastern folk art and crafts.\n\nThe Stephen Foster Museum honors the accomplishments of American composer Stephen Foster and features dioramas and exhibits about his famous songs, including \"Old Folks at Home\", more commonly known by the words of its first line as \"(Way Down Upon the) Swanee River.\" \n\nHonoring Foster, who never visited Florida, was the idea of Josiah K. Lilly, Sr., the son of Eli Lilly. He proposed the memorial in 1931.\n\nThe \"Stephen Foster Memorial Carillon\", the park's 97-tubular bell carillon tower, was built in 1957 by the J.C. Deagan Company. Over four decades, the company built and installed in excess of 500 carillons worldwide based, on their own 1916 design. The setup at White Springs was their largest and last carillon. It is noted as the \"world's largest tubular bell instrument\" from the company. \n\nThe carillon plays Foster's songs throughout the day. A second museum area inside the tower also features exhibits about Stephen Foster and the carillon.\nThe carillon was not working and a restoration fund is raising money to restore and preserve.\n\nEvery year, the park hosts the Florida Folk Festival on Memorial Day weekend.\n\nFlorida state parks are open between 8 a.m. and sundown every day of the year (including holidays).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "186258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186258", "title": "The Catcher in the Rye", "text": "The Catcher in the Rye\n\nThe Catcher in the Rye is a story by J. D. Salinger, partially published in serial form in 1945–1946 and as a novel in 1951. A classic novel originally published for adults, it has since become popular with adolescent readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation. It has been translated into almost all of the world's major languages.\nAround 1 million copies are sold each year, with total sales of more than 65 million books. The novel's protagonist Holden Caulfield has become an icon for teenage rebellion. The novel also deals with complex issues of innocence, identity, belonging, loss, and connection.\n\nThe novel was included on \"Time\"s 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923, and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century. In 2003, it was listed at #15 on the BBC's survey \"The Big Read\".\n\nHolden Caulfield, a teenager, is living in an unspecified institution in Southern California near Hollywood in 1951. Caulfield intends to live with his brother D.B, an author and World War II veteran whom Holden is angered at for becoming a screenwriter, one month after his discharge. As he waits, Holden recalls the events of the previous Christmas.\n\nHolden begins his story at Pencey Preparatory Academy, an exclusive boarding school in Agerstown, Pennsylvania, on the Saturday afternoon of the traditional football game with a rival school. Holden has been expelled from Pencey due to poor work and is not to return after Christmas break, which begins the following Wednesday. He plans to return home on that day so that he will not be present when his parents receive notice of his expulsion. After forfeiting a fencing match in New York by forgetting the equipment in the subway, he is invited to the home of his history teacher, Mr. Spencer. Spencer is a well-meaning but long-winded old man. Spencer greets him and offers him advice, but embarrasses Holden by further criticizing Holden's work in his subject in a rude manner.\n\nHolden returns to his dorm wearing the new red hunting cap he bought in New York. His dorm neighbor Robert Ackley is one of the few students also missing the game. Ackley, unpopular among his peers, disturbs Holden with his impolite questioning and mannerisms. Holden, who feels sorry for Ackley, tolerates his presence. Later, Holden agrees to write an English composition for his roommate, Ward Stradlater, who is leaving for a date. However, Holden is distressed to learn that Stradlater's date is an old friend, Jane Gallagher, whom Holden had romantic feelings for and feels protective of. That night, Holden decides to go to a Cary Grant comedy with his best friend Mal Brossard and Ackley. Since Ackley and Mal had already seen the film, they end up just playing pinball and returning to Pencey. When Stradlater returns hours later, he fails to appreciate the deeply personal composition Holden wrote for him about the baseball glove of Holden's late brother Allie, and refuses to reveal whether he slept with Jane. Enraged, Holden punches him, and Stradlater easily wins the ensuing fight. When Holden continues insulting him after the fight, Stradlater knocks him unconscious and leaves him with a bloody nose. After leaving for Ackley's room, Holden is disappointed when he treats him rudely. Fed up with the so-called \"phonies\" at Pencey Prep, Holden impulsively decides to leave Pencey early, sells his typewriter to earn money, and catches a train to Penn Station in New York. Holden intends to stay away from his home in a hotel until Wednesday, when his parents would have received news of his expulsion. Aboard the train, Holden meets the mother of a wealthy, obnoxious Pencey student named Ernest Morrow, and lies to her about himself and her son.\n\nIn a taxicab, Holden inquires with the driver about whether the ducks in the Central Park lagoon migrate during winter, a subject he brings up often, but the man barely responds. Holden checks into the dilapidated Edmont Hotel. He spends an evening dancing with three tourist women from Seattle in the hotel lounge and enjoys dancing with one, though is disappointed that he is unable to hold a conversation with them. Following an unpromising visit to Ernie's Nightclub in Greenwich Village, Holden becomes preoccupied with his internal angst and agrees to have a prostitute named Sunny visit his room. His attitude toward the girl changes the minute she enters the room; she seems about the same age as him. Holden becomes uncomfortable with the situation, and when he tells her all he wants to do is talk, she becomes annoyed and leaves. Even though he still paid her the right amount for her time, she returns with her pimp Maurice and demands more money. Holden insults Maurice, and after Sunny takes the money from Holden's wallet, Maurice punches him in the stomach and leaves with Sunny. Afterwards, Holden imagines that he has been shot by Maurice, and pictures murdering him with an automatic pistol.\n\nThe next morning, Holden, becoming increasingly depressed and in need of personal connection, calls Sally Hayes, a familiar date. Although Holden claims that she is \"the queen of all phonies\", they agree to meet that afternoon to attend a play at the Biltmore Theater. Holden shops for a special record, \"Little Shirley Beans\", for his 10-year-old sister Phoebe. He spots a small boy singing \"If a body catch a body coming through the rye\", which lifts his mood. Although Holden's date initially goes well, it soon sours after Sally introduces her friend George. After the play, Holden and Sally go ice skating at Rockefeller Center, where Holden suddenly begins ranting against society and frightens Sally. He impulsively invites Sally to run away with him that night to live in the wilderness of New England, but she is uninterested in his hastily conceived plan and declines. The conversation turns sour, and the two angrily part ways.\n\nHolden decides to meet his old classmate, a Columbia student named Carl Luce, for drinks at the Wicker Bar in the Seton Hotel. During the meeting, Holden annoys Carl with his fixation on sex. After Luce leaves, Holden gets drunk, awkwardly flirts with several adults, and calls an icy Sally. Exhausted and out of money, Holden wanders over to Central Park to investigate the ducks, breaking Phoebe's record on the way. Nostalgically recalling his experience in elementary school and the unchanging dioramas in the Museum of Natural History that he enjoyed visiting as a child, Holden heads home to see Phoebe. He sneaks into his parents' apartment while they are out, and wakes up Phoebe – the only person with whom he seems to be able to communicate his true feelings. Although Phoebe is happy to see Holden, she quickly deduces that he has been expelled, and chastises him for his aimlessness and his apparent dislikes towards everything. When asked if he cares about anything, Holden shares a selfless fantasy he has been thinking about (based on a mishearing of Robert Burns's \"Comin' Through the Rye\"): he pictures himself as the sole guardian of thousands of children playing in a huge rye field on the edge of a cliff. His job is to catch the children if, in their abandon, they come close to falling off the brink; to be, in effect, the \"catcher in the rye\". Because of this misinterpretation, Holden believes that to be the \"catcher in the rye\" means to save children from losing their innocence.\n\nWhen his mother returns home, Holden slips out and visits his former and much-admired English teacher, Mr. Antolini, who is now a New York University professor. Mr. Antolini expresses concern that Holden is headed for \"a terrible fall\" and advises him to begin applying himself. Although Holden is exhausted, he is courteous and considers his advice. Mr. Antolini also provides Holden with a place to sleep. Holden is upset when he wakes up in the night to find Mr. Antolini patting his head, which he interprets as a homosexual advance. Confused and uncertain, he leaves and spends the rest of the night in a waiting room at Grand Central Station, where he sinks further into despair and expresses regret over leaving Mr. Antolini. He spends most of Monday morning wandering Fifth Avenue.\n\nLosing hope of finding belonging or companionship in the city, Holden impulsively decides that he will head out west and live a reclusive lifestyle as a gas station attendant. He decides to see Phoebe at lunchtime to explain his plan and say farewell. While visiting Phoebe's school to give a forged excuse note, Holden becomes quite annoyed by graffiti containing the word \"fuck\", and becomes distressed by the thought of children learning the word's meaning. When he meets Phoebe at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, she arrives with a suitcase and asks to go with him, even though she was looking forward to acting as Benedict Arnold in a play that Friday. Holden refuses to let her come with him, which upsets Phoebe, so Holden decides not to leave after all. He tries to cheer her up by allowing her to skip school and taking her to the Central Park Zoo, but she remains angry with him. They eventually reach the zoo's carousel, where Phoebe reconciles with Holden after he buys her a ticket. Holden is finally filled with happiness and joy at the sight of Phoebe riding in the rain.\n\nIn a short epilogue, Holden briefly alludes to encountering his parents that night and \"getting sick\" (implying a tuberculosis diagnosis), mentioning that he will be attending another school in September. Holden says that he doesn't want to tell anything more because, surprisingly, he has found himself missing his former classmates. He warns the reader that telling others about their own experiences will lead them to miss the people who shared them.\n\nVarious older stories by Salinger contain characters similar to those in \"The Catcher in the Rye\". While at Columbia University, Salinger wrote a short story called \"The Young Folks\" in Whit Burnett's class; one character from this story has been described as a \"thinly penciled prototype of Sally Hayes\". In November 1941 he sold the story \"Slight Rebellion off Madison\", which featured Holden Caulfield, to \"The New Yorker\", but it wasn't published until December 21, 1946, due to World War II. The story \"I'm Crazy\", which was published in the December 22, 1945, issue of \"Collier's\", contained material that was later used in \"The Catcher in the Rye\". In 1946, \"The New Yorker\" accepted a 90-page manuscript about Holden Caulfield for publication, but Salinger later withdrew it.\n\n\"The Catcher in the Rye\" is narrated in a subjective style from the point of view of Holden Caulfield, following his exact thought processes. There is flow in the seemingly disjointed ideas and episodes; for example, as Holden sits in a chair in his dorm, minor events, such as picking up a book or looking at a table, unfold into discussions about experiences.\n\nCritical reviews affirm that the novel accurately reflected the teenage colloquial speech of the time. Words and phrases that appear frequently include:\n\nBruce Brooks held that Holden's attitude remains unchanged at story's end, implying no maturation, thus differentiating the novel from young adult fiction.\nIn contrast, Louis Menand thought that teachers assign the novel because of the optimistic ending, to teach adolescent readers that \"alienation is just a phase.\" While Brooks maintained that Holden acts his age, Menand claimed that Holden thinks as an adult, given his ability to accurately perceive people and their motives. Others highlight the dilemma of Holden's state, in between adolescence and adulthood. Holden is quick to become emotional. \"I felt sorry as hell for...\" is a phrase he often uses. It is often said that Holden changes at the end, when he watches Phoebe on the carousel, and he talks about the golden ring and how it's good for kids to try and grab it.\n\nPeter Beidler, in his \"A Reader's Companion to J. D. Salinger's \"The Catcher in the Rye\"\", identifies the movie that the prostitute \"Sunny\" refers to. In chapter 13 she says that in the movie a boy falls off a boat. The movie is \"Captains Courageous\" (1937), starring Spencer Tracy. Sunny says that Holden looks like the boy who fell off the boat. Beidler shows (page 28) a still of the boy, played by child-actor Freddie Bartholomew.\n\nEach Caulfield child has literary talent. D.B. writes screenplays in Hollywood; Holden also reveres D.B. for his writing skill (Holden's own best subject), but he also despises Hollywood industry-based movies, considering them the ultimate in \"phony\" as the writer has no space for his own imagination, and describes D.B.'s move to Hollywood to write for films as \"prostituting himself\"; Allie wrote poetry on his baseball glove; and Phoebe is a diarist.\nThis \"catcher in the rye\" is an analogy for Holden, who admires in children attributes that he struggles to find in adults, like innocence, kindness, spontaneity, and generosity. Falling off the cliff could be a progression into the adult world that surrounds him and that he strongly criticizes. Later, Phoebe and Holden exchange roles as the \"catcher\" and the \"fallen\"; he gives her his hunting hat, the catcher's symbol, and becomes the fallen as Phoebe becomes the catcher.\n\nIn their biography of Salinger, David Shields and Shane Salerno argue that: \"\"The Catcher in the Rye\" can best be understood as a disguised war novel.\" Salinger witnessed the horrors of World War II, but rather than writing a combat novel, Salinger, according to Shields and Salerno, \"took the trauma of war and embedded it within what looked to the naked eye like a coming-of-age novel.\"\n\n\"The Catcher in the Rye\" has been listed as one of the best novels of the twentieth century. Shortly after its publication, writing for \"The New York Times\", Nash K. Burger called it \"an unusually brilliant novel,\" while James Stern wrote an admiring review of the book in a voice imitating Holden's. George H. W. Bush called it a \"marvelous book,\" listing it among the books that have inspired him. In June 2009, the BBC's Finlo Rohrer wrote that, 58 years since publication, the book is still regarded \"as the defining work on what it is like to be a teenager. Holden is at various times disaffected, disgruntled, alienated, isolated, directionless, and sarcastic.\" Adam Gopnik considers it one of the \"three perfect books\" in American literature, along with \"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\" and \"The Great Gatsby\", and believes that \"no book has ever captured a city better than \"Catcher in the Rye\" captured New York in the fifties.\" Jeff Pruchnic wrote an appraisal of The Catcher in the Rye after the death of J.D. Salinger. In this article, Pruchnic focuses on how the novel continues to be received incredibly well, even after it has aged many generations. Pruchnic describes Holden as a “teenage protagonist frozen midcentury but destined to be discovered by those of a similar age in every generation to come”. Bill Gates said that \"The Catcher in the Rye\" is one of his favorite books ever.\n\nHowever, not all reception has been positive; the book has had its share of critics. Rohrer writes, \"Many of these readers are disappointed that the novel fails to meet the expectations generated by the mystique it is shrouded in. J. D. Salinger has done his part to enhance this mystique. That is to say, he has done nothing.\" Rohrer assessed the reasons behind both the popularity and criticism of the book, saying that it \"captures existential teenage angst\" and has a \"complex central character\" and \"accessible conversational style\"; while at the same time some readers may dislike the \"use of 1940s New York vernacular\" and other things.\n\nIn 1960, a teacher in Tulsa, Oklahoma was fired for assigning the novel in class; however, she was later reinstated. Between 1961 and 1982, \"The Catcher in the Rye\" was the most censored book in high schools and libraries in the United States. The book was banned in the Issaquah, Washington high schools in 1978 as being part of an \"overall communist plot\". In 1981, it was both the most censored book and the second most taught book in public schools in the United States. According to the American Library Association, \"The Catcher in the Rye\" was the 10th most frequently challenged book from 1990 to 1999. It was one of the ten most challenged books of 2005, and although it had been off the list for three years, it reappeared in the list of most challenged books of 2009.\n\nThe challenges generally begin with Holden's frequent use of vulgar language, with other reasons including sexual references, blasphemy, undermining of family values and moral codes, encouragement of rebellion, and promotion of drinking, smoking, lying, promiscuity, and sexual abuse.\nOften the challengers have been unfamiliar with the plot itself. Shelley Keller-Gage, a high school teacher who faced objections after assigning the novel in her class, noted that \"the challengers are being just like Holden... They are trying to be catchers in the rye\". A Streisand effect has been that this incident caused people to put themselves on the waiting list to borrow the novel, when there was no waiting list before.\n\nSeveral shootings have been associated with Salinger's novel, including Robert John Bardo's murder of Rebecca Schaeffer and John Hinckley Jr.'s assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan. Additionally, after fatally shooting John Lennon, Mark David Chapman was arrested with a copy of the book that he had purchased that same day, inside of which he had written: \"To Holden Caulfield, From Holden Caulfield, This is my statement\".\n\nEarly in his career, Salinger expressed a willingness to have his work adapted for the screen. In 1949, a critically panned film version of his short story \"Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut\" was released; renamed \"My Foolish Heart\", the film took great liberties with Salinger's plot and is widely considered to be among the reasons that Salinger refused to allow any subsequent film adaptations of his work. The enduring popularity of \"The Catcher in the Rye\", however, has resulted in repeated attempts to secure the novel's screen rights.\n\nWhen \"The Catcher in the Rye\" was first released, many offers were made to adapt it for the screen, including one from Samuel Goldwyn, producer of \"My Foolish Heart\". In a letter written in the early 1950s, Salinger spoke of mounting a play in which he would play the role of Holden Caulfield opposite Margaret O'Brien, and, if he couldn't play the part himself, to \"forget about it.\" Almost 50 years later, the writer Joyce Maynard definitively concluded, \"The only person who might ever have played Holden Caulfield would have been J. D. Salinger.\"\n\nSalinger told Maynard in the 1970s that Jerry Lewis \"tried for years to get his hands on the part of Holden,\" despite Lewis not having read the novel until he was in his thirties. Celebrities ranging from Marlon Brando and Jack Nicholson to Tobey Maguire and Leonardo DiCaprio have since tried to make a film adaptation. In an interview with \"Premiere\", John Cusack commented that his one regret about turning 21 was that he had become too old to play Holden Caulfield. Writer-director Billy Wilder recounted his abortive attempts to snare the novel's rights:\n\nIn 1961, Salinger denied Elia Kazan permission to direct a stage adaptation of \"Catcher\" for Broadway. More recently, Salinger's agents received bids for the \"Catcher\" film rights from Harvey Weinstein and Steven Spielberg, neither of which was even passed on to Salinger for consideration.\n\nIn 2003, the BBC television program \"The Big Read\" featured \"The Catcher in the Rye\", interspersing discussions of the novel with \"a series of short films that featured an actor playing J. D. Salinger's adolescent antihero, Holden Caulfield.\" The show defended its unlicensed adaptation of the novel by claiming to be a \"literary review\", and no major charges were filed.\n\nAfter Salinger's death in 2010, Phyllis Westberg, who was Salinger's agent at Harold Ober Associates, stated that nothing has changed in terms of licensing film, television, or stage rights of his works. A letter written by Salinger in 1957 revealed that he was open to an adaptation of \"The Catcher in the Rye\" released after his death. He wrote: \"Firstly, it is possible that one day the rights will be sold. Since there's an ever-looming possibility that I won't die rich, I toy very seriously with the idea of leaving the unsold rights to my wife and daughter as a kind of insurance policy. It pleasures me no end, though, I might quickly add, to know that I won't have to see the results of the transaction.\" Salinger also wrote that he believed his novel was not suitable for film treatment, and that translating Holden Caulfield's first-person narrative into voice-over and dialogue would be contrived.\n\nIn 2009, a year before his death, Salinger successfully sued to stop the U.S. publication of a novel that presents Holden Caulfield as an old man. The novel's author, Fredrik Colting, commented: \"call me an ignorant Swede, but the last thing I thought possible in the U.S. was that you banned books\". The issue is complicated by the nature of Colting's book, \"60 Years Later: Coming Through the Rye\", which has been compared to fan fiction. Although commonly not authorized by writers, no legal action is usually taken against fan fiction, since it is rarely published commercially and thus involves no profit. Colting, however, has published his book commercially, therefore interfering with copyright law and is not protected.\n\n\"The Catcher in the Rye\" has had significant cultural influence, and works inspired by the novel have been said to form their own genre. Sarah Graham assessed works influenced by \"The Catcher in the Rye\" to include the novels \"Less Than Zero\" by Bret Easton Ellis, \"The Perks of Being a Wallflower\" by Stephen Chbosky, \"A Complicated Kindness\" by Miriam Toews, \"The Bell Jar\" by Sylvia Plath, \"Ordinary People\" by Judith Guest, and the film \"Igby Goes Down\" by Burr Steers.\n\nFantasy writer Harry Turtledove has written a pastiche-parody \"Catcher in the Rhine\", based on his daughter's mishearing of Salinger's title. In this short story, an unnamed narrator, who is clearly meant to be Holden Caulfield but is unnamed to avoid copyright problems, goes on vacation to Germany and meets characters from the \"Niebelunglied\". This was first published in \"The Chick is in the Mail\", edited by Esther Friesner, Baen 2000 and reprinted in the omnibus \"Chicks Ahoy!\" (2010). It was reprinted in \"Atlantis and Other Places\" also in 2010.\n\nIn \"Catcher In The Wry\" former major league baseball player, Bob Uecker, recounts anecdotes of his years behind the plate and on the road, recalling the antics of his famous teammates, including Hank Aaron, Bob Gibson, Richie Allen, and Warren Spahn.\n\nThe July 1985 issue of National Lampoon included a parody of the novel, ostensibly written by Holden Caulfield's son, entitled 'The Son of the Catcher, who Lives in Rye'.\n\nIn Postal 2 a book by the name of \"Catch her in the Rye\" is present.\n\nIn December 1991, punk rock band Green Day released their second studio album (Kerplunk), containing the song \"Who Wrote Holden Caulfield\". The song describes said character as crazy, frustrated, and lacking motivation.\n\n\"The Catcher in the Rye\" deeply influenced the 2017 biographical drama film, \"Rebel in the Rye\", which is about J.D. Salinger. It is a visual about his life, before and after World War II, and gives more about the author's life than the readers of \"The Catcher in the Rye\" learned from the novel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14495337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14495337", "title": "The Symbolist Movement in Literature", "text": "The Symbolist Movement in Literature\n\nThe Symbolist Movement in Literature, first published in 1899, and with additional material in 1919, is a work by Arthur Symons largely credited with bringing French Symbolism to the attention of Anglo-American literary circles. Its first two editions were vital influences on W. B. Yeats and T. S. Eliot—a note that, for nothing else, would assure its historical place with the most important early Modernist criticism. Richard Ellmann has contributed an Introduction to most modern editions.\n\nWhile \"The Symbolist Movement in Literature\" was first published in monograph book form in 1899, its origins can be traced back to previous essays and articles published by Symons. In 1893, Symons' article \"The Decadent Movement in Literature\" appeared in the November volume of \"Harper's New Monthly Magazine\". This ten page article touched on many of the authors subsequently discussed in \"The Symbolist Movement in Literature\", such as Huysmans, Maeterlinck, Verlaine and Villers de L'Isle-Adam. The 1893 essay also mentioned the English writers Pater and Henley.\n\nA few years later adverts were placed for \"The Decadent Movement in Literature\" to be published imminently as a book in its own right. In 1896, an advert appeared in The Savoy, which Symons served as literary editor for and Leonard Smithers published. The advert, placed by Smithers himself (for he was hoping to publish it), stated the book to be 'in preparation'. In 1897, Smithers placed an identical advert in his bijou edition of Pope's \"Rape of the Lock\". One assumes that Symons was working on an expanded version of his 1893 article, to be published in a single volume under the same name. How and when Symons decided to change the title word of 'Decadent' to 'Symbolist' is unclear. What is clear, however, is that between 1893 and 1899, Symons' own perception of and sensibility towards literary Decadence changed.\n\nMany of the essays in the 1899 edition of \"The Symbolist Movement in Literature\" were initially published as individual articles between 1897 and 1899 in periodicals such as \"The Star\" or \"The Athenaeum\", before being revised and collated for the final monograph.\n\nSymons's book is a collection of short essays on various authors. A list of contents is useful, among other reasons, for determining the time and trace of its influence. Eliot, for instance, would not have read about Baudelaire in his 1908 edition. Essays on English authors were added for Symons's 1924 \"Collected Works\".\n\n\n\nArthur Symons was a close friend of Yeats, and the mutual influence was probably just as much one of conversation as of letters. Its dedicatory note (to Yeats) opens:\nMay I dedicate to you this book on the Symbolist movement in literature, both as an expression of a deep personal friendship and because you, more than any one else, will sympathise with what I say in it, being yourself the chief representative of that movement in our country? France is the country of movements, and it is naturally in France that I have studied the development of a principle which is spreading throughout other countries, perhaps not less effectually, if with less definite outlines...\nT. S. Eliot, whose relationship with the book was significantly less dialectical—he discovered its second edition in bookshop while at Harvard, though he did eventually write to Symons—was perhaps even more influenced by it:\nI owe Mr. Symons a great debt: but for having read his book I should not, in the year 1908, have heard of Laforgue or Rimbaud; I should probably not have begun to read Verlaine; but for reading Verlaine, I should not have heard of Corbière. So the Symons book is one of those which have affected the course of my life.\nIts importance for other contemporary writers was also, of course, profound. Richard Ellmann, James Joyce's most preeminent biographer, argues that Symons was a major influence for Joyce's decision to emigrate to Paris (though Joyce's attitude toward Rimbaud, as evinced by the former's letters, was generally negative). In a later generation Symons' book was responsible, for example, for alerting the young British poet David Gascoyne to the appeal of French poets such as Rimbaud and Baudelaire, some of whom he was to memorably translate.\n\n"}
{"id": "27959764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27959764", "title": "Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program", "text": "Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program\n\nThe Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program (TTCSP) is a non-profit program at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, PA. TTCSP was established at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in 1989. The director is James McGann. The program conducts research on policy institutes around the world, and maintains a database of approximately 6,300 think tanks from across the world.\n\nThe TTCSP was established at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in 1989. It began with its focus on think tanks in the US. In the 1990s the Program became increasingly global as a result of the political and economic transformation that took place in Central and Eastern Europe. R. Kent Weaver of the Brookings Institution and James McGann of the Foreign Policy Research Institute were asked to help conceptualize what became the Global Development Network, a World Bank sponsored conference in Barcelona, Spain. This resulted in the publication \"Think Tanks and Civil Societies: Catalysts for Ideas and Action\" in 2000. In 2008, the TTCSP moved to the International Relations Program at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nMcGann and the Program publish the annual \"Global Go To Think Tank Index\". As of 2010, the Index is based on a three-phase survey whose participants include politicians, scientists, think tank donors, and think tanks.\n\n"}
{"id": "28661419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28661419", "title": "Value-added modeling", "text": "Value-added modeling\n\nValue-added modeling (also known as value-added measurement, value-added analysis and value-added assessment) is a method of teacher evaluation that measures the teacher's contribution in a given year by comparing the current test scores of their students to the scores of those same students in previous school years, as well as to the scores of other students in the same grade. In this manner, value-added modeling seeks to isolate the contribution, or value added, that each teacher provides in a given year, which can be compared to the performance measures of other teachers. VAMs are considered to be fairer than simply comparing student achievement scores or gain scores without considering potentially confounding context variables like past performance or income. It is also possible to use this approach to estimate the value added by the school principal or the school as a whole.\n\nCritics say that the use of tests to evaluate individual teachers has not been scientifically validated, and much of the results are due to chance or conditions beyond the teacher's control, such as outside tutoring. Research shows, however, that differences in teacher effectiveness as measured by value-added of teachers are associated with small economic effects on students.\n\nResearchers use statistical processes on a student's past test scores to predict the student's future test scores, on the assumption that students usually score approximately as well each year as they have in past years. The student's actual score is then compared to the predicted score. The difference between the predicted and actual scores, if any, is assumed to be due to the teacher and the school, rather than to the student's natural ability or socioeconomic circumstances.\n\nIn this way, value-added modeling attempts to isolate the teacher's contributions from factors outside the teacher's control that are known to strongly affect student test performance, including the student's general intelligence, poverty, and parental involvement.\n\nBy aggregating all of these individual results, statisticians can determine how much a particular teacher improves student achievement, compared to how much the typical teacher would have improved student achievement.\n\nStatisticians use hierarchical linear modeling to predict the score for a given student in a given classroom in a given school. This prediction is based on aggregated results of all students. Each student's predicted score may take into account student level (e.g., past performance, socioeconomic status, race/ethnicity), teacher level (e.g., certification, years of experience, highest degree earned, teaching practices, instructional materials, curriculum) and school level (e.g., size, type, setting) variables into consideration. Which variables are included depends on the model.\n\n, a few school districts across the United States had adopted the system, including the Chicago Public Schools, New York City Department of Education and District of Columbia Public Schools. The rankings have been used to decide on issues of teacher retention and the awarding of bonuses, as well as a tool for identifying those teachers who would benefit most from teacher training. Under Race to the Top and other programs advocating for better methods of evaluating teacher performance, districts have looked to value-added modeling as a supplement to observing teachers in classrooms.\n\nLouisiana legislator Frank A. Hoffmann introduced a bill to authorize the use of value-added modeling techniques in the state's public schools as a means to reward strong teachers and to identify successful pedagogical methods, as well as providing a means to provide additional professional development for those teachers identified as weaker than others. Despite opposition from the Louisiana Federation of Teachers, the bill passed the Louisiana State Senate on May 26, 2010, and was immediately signed into law by Governor Bobby Jindal.\n\nExperts do not recommend using value-added modeling as the sole determinant of any decision. Instead, they recommend using it as a significant factor in a multifaceted evaluation program.\n\nAs a norm-referenced evaluation system, the teacher's performance is compared to the results seen in other teachers in the chosen comparison group. It is therefore possible to use this model to infer that a teacher is better, worse, or the same as the typical teacher, but it is not possible to use this model to determine whether a given level of performance is desirable.\n\nBecause each student's expected score is largely derived from the student's actual scores in previous years, it difficult to use this model to evaluate teachers of kindergarten and first grade. Some research limits the model to teachers of third grade and above.\n\nSchools may not be able to obtain new students' prior scores from the students' former schools, or the scores may not be useful because of the non-comparability of some tests. A school with high levels of student turnover may have difficulty in collecting sufficient data to apply this model. When students change schools in the middle of the year, their progress during the year is not solely attributable to their final teachers.\n\nValue-added scores are more sensitive to teacher effects for mathematics than for language. This may be due to widespread use of poorly constructed tests for reading and language skills, or it may be because teachers ultimately have less influence over language development. Students learn language skills from many sources, especially their families, while they learn math skills primarily in school.\n\nThere is some variation in scores from year to year and from class to class. This variation is similar to performance measures in other fields, such as Major League Baseball and thus may reflect real, natural variations in the teacher's performance. Because of this variation, scores are most accurate if they are derived from a large number of students (typically 50 or more). As a result, it is difficult to use this model to evaluate first-year teachers, especially in elementary school, as they may have only taught 20 students. A ranking based on a single classroom is likely to classify the teacher correctly about 65% of the time. This number rises to 88% if ten years' data are available. Additionally, because the confidence interval is wide, the method is most reliable when identifying teachers who are consistently in the top or bottom 10%, rather than trying to draw fine distinctions between teachers that produce more or less typical achievements, such as attempting to determine whether a teacher should be rated as being slightly above or slightly below the median.\n\nValue added scores assume that students are randomly assigned to teachers. In reality students are rarely randomly assigned to teachers or to schools. According to economist and professor, Dr. Jesse M. Rothstein of University of California, Berkeley, \"Non-random assignment of students to teachers can bias value added estimates of teachers’ causal effects.\" The issue of possible bias with the use of value added measures has been the subject of considerable recent study, and other researchers reach the conclusion that value added measures do provide good estimates of teacher effectiveness. See, for example, the recent work of the Measures of Effective Teaching project and the analysis of how value added measures relate to future incomes by Professor Raj Chetty of Harvard and his colleagues.\n\nThe idea of judging the effectiveness of teachers based on the learning gains of students was first introduced into the research literature in 1971 by Eric Hanushek, currently a Senior Fellow at the conservative Hoover Institution, an American public policy think tank located at Stanford University in California. It was subsequently analyzed by Richard Murnane of Harvard University among others. The approach has been used in a variety of different analyses to assess the variation in teacher effectiveness within schools, and the estimation has shown large and consistent differences among teachers in the learning pace of their students.\n\nStatistician William Sanders, a senior research manager at SAS introduced the concept to school operations when he developed value-added models for school districts in North Carolina and Tennessee. First created as a teacher evaluation tool for school programs in Tennessee in the 1990s, the use of the technique expanded with the passage of the No Child Left Behind legislation in 2002. Based on his experience and research, Sanders argued that \"if you use rigorous, robust methods and surround them with safeguards, you can reliably distinguish highly effective teachers from average teachers and from ineffective teachers.\"\n\nA 2003 study by the RAND Corporation prepared for the Carnegie Corporation of New York, said that value-added modeling \"holds out the promise of separating the effects of teachers and schools from the powerful effects of such noneducational factors as family background\" and that studies had shown that there was a wide variance in teacher scores when using such models, which could make value-added modeling an effective tool for evaluating and rewarding teacher performance if the variability could be substantiated as linked to the performance of individual teachers.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" reported on the use of the program in that city's schools, creating a searchable web site that provided the score calculated by the value-added modeling system for 6,000 elementary school teachers in the district. United States Secretary of Education Arne Duncan praised the newspaper's reporting on the teacher scores citing it as a model of increased transparency, though he noted that greater openness must be balanced against concerns regarding \"privacy, fairness and respect for teachers\". In February, 2011, Derek Briggs and Ben Domingue of the National Education Policy Center (NEPC) released a report reanalyzing the same dataset from the L.A. Unified School District, attempting to replicate the results published in the \"Times\", and they found serious limitations of the previous research, concluding that the \"research on which the Los Angeles Times relied for its August 2010 teacher effectiveness reporting was demonstrably inadequate to support the published rankings.\"\n\nThe Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is sponsoring a multi-year study of value-added modeling with their Measures of Effective Teaching program. Initial results, released in December 2010, indicate that both value-added modeling and student perception of several key teacher traits, such as control of the classroom and challenging students with rigorous work, correctly identify effective teachers. The study about student evaluations was done by Ronald Ferguson. The study also discovered that teachers who teach to the test are much less effective, and have significantly lower value-added modeling scores, than teachers who promote a deep conceptual understanding of the full curriculum. Reanalysis of the MET report’s results conducted by Jesse Rothstein, an economist and professor at University of California, Berkeley, dispute some of these interpretations, however. Rothstein argues that the analyses in the report do not support the conclusions, and that \"interpreted correctly... [they] undermine rather than validate value-added-based approaches to teacher evaluation.” More recent work from the MET project, however, validates the use of value added approaches.\n\nThe general idea of value added modeling has also been extended to consider principals and school leaders. While there has been considerable anecdotal discussion about the importance of school leaders, there has been very little systematic research into the impact of them on student outcomes. Recent analysis in Texas has provided evidence about the effectiveness of leaders by looking at how the gains in student achievement for a school change after the principal changes. This outcome-based approach to measuring effectiveness of principals is very similar to the value-added modeling that has been applied to the evaluation of teachers. The early research in Texas finds that principals have a very large impact on student achievement. Conservative estimates indicate that an effective school leader improves the performance of all students in a school, with the magnitude equal on average to two months additional learning gains for the students in each school year. These gains come at least in part through the principal's impact on selecting and retaining good teachers. Ineffective principals, however, have a similarly large negative effect on school performance, suggesting that issues of evaluation are as important with respect to school leadership as they are for teachers.\n\nA report issued by the Economic Policy Institute in August 2010 recognized that \"American public schools generally do a poor job of systematically developing and evaluating teachers\" but expressed concern that using performance on standardized tests as a measuring tool will not lead to better performance. The EPI report recommends that measures of performance based on standardized test scores be one factor among many that should be considered to \"provide a more accurate view of what teachers in fact do in the classroom and how that contributes to student learning.\" The study called value-added modeling a fairer means of comparing teachers that allows for better measures of educational methodologies and overall school performance, but argued that student test scores were not sufficiently reliable as a means of making \"high-stakes personnel decisions\".\n\nEdward Haertel, who led the Economic Policy Institute research team, wrote that the methodologies being pushed as part of the Race to the Top program placed \"too much emphasis on measures of growth in student achievement that have not yet been adequately studied for the purposes of evaluating teachers and principals\" and that the techniques of valued-added modeling need to be more thoroughly evaluated and should only be used \"in closely studied pilot projects\".\n\nEducation policy researcher Gerald Bracey further argued it is possible that a correlation between teachers and short-term changes in test scores may be irrelevant to the actual quality of teaching. Therefore, \"it cannot permit causal inferences about individual teachers. At best, it is a beginning step to identify teachers who might need additional professional development.\"\n\nThe American Statistical Association issued an April 8, 2014 statement criticizing the use of value-added models in educational assessment, without ruling out the usefulness of such models. The ASA cited limitations of input data, the influence of factors not included in the models, and large standard errors resulting in unstable year-to-year rankings.\n\nJohn Ewing, writing in the Notices of the American Mathematical Society criticized the use of value-added models in educational assessment as a form of \"mathematical intimidation\" and a \"rhetorical weapon.\" Ewing cited problems with input data and the influence of factors not included in the model.\n\nSeveral alternatives for teacher evaluation have been implemented:\n\n\nMost experts recommend using multiple measures to evaluate teacher effectiveness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34871628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34871628", "title": "Verdaguer House Museum", "text": "Verdaguer House Museum\n\nThe Verdaguer House Museum () is a literary museum in Folgueroles, birthplace of poet Jacint Verdaguer, in the region of Osona. It was opened in 1967 and is part of the Barcelona Provincial Council Local Museum Network.\n\nThe Verdaguer House Museum is located in a 17th-century house occupied by Josep Verdaguer and his wife, Josepa Santaló, (parents of Jacint Verdaguer) between 1841 and 1847, when the poet was two years old.\n\nThe exhibition area is structured on three floors: on the first floor is the permanent exhibition, which takes visitors through the stages of the poet’s life; the second floor shows what a typical kitchen and bedroom were decorated like in the 19th century, time in which young Jacint lived; on the third floor there is a space dedicated to temporary exhibitions and another to the artist Perejaume, as well as an audiovisual presentation on the life and work of Jacint Verdaguer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40771208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40771208", "title": "Waso", "text": "Waso\n\nWaso (; formerly Nweta or ) is the fourth month of the traditional Burmese calendar.\n\n\n\n"}
