{"id": "30595888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30595888", "title": "Angel's Friends", "text": "Angel's Friends\n\nAngel's Friends is an Italian magical girl comic series created by Simona Ferri that debuted in March 2007. On 12 October 2009, an animated series of the same name premiered on Italia 1. A second season of 52 episodes was announced in January 2011 and premiered in Russia on 29 April 2012.\n\nA television film, \"Angel's Friends – Tra Sogno e Realtà\" (\"Angel's Friends: Between Dream and Reality\"), premiered on 23 April 2011.\n\nIn the United States, the show is available via NBC, syndication and many local stations air the program on their secondary subchannel service to fulfill FCC mandates (at least three hours of E/I related material per week). The second season, dubbed in English, French and Russian, has been uploaded to YouTube by Mondo TV in September 2014.\n\nA live-action adaptation of the animated series (either a TV series or a movie) is in talks. A teaser pilot titled \"Darkly\" was produced in 2016 by Play Entertainment and Mad Rocket Entertainment, adapted by Daniele Cosci and directed by Alessio Liguori, with Alessandro Danzi as Sulfus, Demetra Bellina as Raf and Denise Tantucci as Reina. The plot is aimed to an older audience and follows a darker storyline, where Raf and Sulfus are killed by Reina and reborn as humans without memories.\n\nFour Angels (Raf, Uri, Sweet and Miki) and four Devils (Sulfus, Cabiria, Kabale and Gas) are sent to Earth, in an unused area of the Golden School, where they learn everything they need to become Guardian Angels and Guardian Devils. The Angels and Devils are required to form pairs as part of their education, each of which will have to deal with a human being, known as Earthly Ones, and help them choose between the right and wrong way in life without being discovered. Angels and Devils cannot operate at the same time, so they decide, clashing in the Challenge Room, who will work first. Moreover, they are subject to the V.E.T.O. (Vetoed from Exposing, Touching or Obstructing/Overhearing in the comic – ).\n\nWhile the Angels and Devils are attending their stage on Earth, the planet is threatened by ancient creatures, the Reliveds, led by a mysterious man called Maliki. He was a Devil who gave up his eternal life because he loved a human woman, named Vera. When she left him, he decided to take revenge on all Angels, Devils and humans. As a result, the Angels and Devils form an alliance to fight against him.\n\nThe evil Neutral One Reina, imprisoned in the Limbo with her slave Maliki, wants to take revenge of Angels and Devils who confined her. To get free, a sacrilege is necessary: because of this, she exploits the rising feelings between Raf, an Angel, and Sulfus, a Devil, forcing them to kiss. The sacrilege breaks the chains and Reina, once free, tells the truth about her origins to Raf: she was born a Terrestrian and was adopted by the Tall Spheres when her parents, two powerful sovereigns, died during the struggle between Angels and Devils. The Neutral One persuades Raf to enter in the Hall of Portraits to see her parents' faces: while the Angel is in, Reina steals all of the portraits to control the Earthly One's will. At the end of the first season, using the \"Prism Fly\" ability, Raf, the Angels and the Devils manage to defeat Reina. Raf discovers that her real father is Maliki, who sacrifices his life to save her, while her mother is imprisoned somewhere in an endless slumber.\n\nAfter the Summer vacations, Angels and Devils return to the Golden School to begin the second year of their stage, there new Earthly Ones are given to them. Meanwhile, Sulfus is blackmailed by two masked eternals who hold in their possession Raf's mother: Angelie. In order to make sure Sulfus does not try to escape their control, a mysterious girl: Blu, watches over him. Raf and Sulfus' love is highly tested with the appearance of these new enemies and more mysteries about Raf's past are revealed. At the end of the second season, Raf and Sulfus learn that the School's Angel principle, Cassidy, and Devil principle, Kubral, manipulated them in order to destroy the V.E.T.O.'s scales and wage war against each other.\n\n\n\nSulfur City ()\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe cartoon is produced by R.T.I., Mondo TV and Play Entertainment, directed by Orlando Corradi and written by Francesco Arlanch and Francesco Balletta. However, the first one who realized the cartoon (26 episodes lasting 20 minutes each) was the Italian company Stranemani, but during the comic festival in Cannes the version by Mondo TV was chosen, despite the Stranemani version using the same character designs from the comic.\n\nIn Italy, Mondo Home Entertainment released the first season in ten DVDs, starting in November 2009. DVDs were also sold in Czech Republic (8 DVDs titled \"Andílci\") and Russia (6 DVDs).\n\nA television movie based on the animated series and settled between the first and the second season aired, in Italy, on 23 April 2011. The movie focuses on the Angels attending the Summer School at the Sunny College in Alpinville, where Raf hopes she will not meet Sulfus. The Devils show up at the school and Raf tells Sulfus she has fallen in love with someone else. Meanwhile, the Earthly ones receive the task of refurbishing the Theatre of Princes () and organising a play, \"Romeo & Juliet\" by William Shakespeare. However, they are attacked by a mysterious hooded man who wants them to leave the theatre. The Angels and the Devils decide to investigate and find out the truth about Tyco and Sai's fate. At last, Raf and Sulfus conclude that they'll decide what to do about their future together once returned to the Golden School for the new term.\n\nOn 2 November 2010, a CD dedicated to \"Angel's Friends\" was released. The album, produced by Mediaset record company, contains the full Italian opening theme performed by Cristina D'Avena and several songs named after the characters of the series, 11 songs totally. The tracks are in English, but the opening theme.\n\n\n\"Angel's Friends\" was distributed all over the world, in countries like Spain, Portugal, Latin America, Belgium, Luxembourg, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Ex-Yugoslavia. As of April 2010, the license has been sold in 37 countries.\n\nThe monthly publication of the comic \"Angel's Friends\" by Play Press began in March 2007. The printed version was edited by Red Whale and Yellow Whale, scripted by Bruno Enna and drawn by Giada Perissinotto. The publication was discontinued in January 2008 with the release of Chapter 14, \"A Spark in the Heart\".\n\nA second version of the comic, based on the cartoon, was published bimonthly by Preziosi Collection since 2009, in \"Angel's Friends Magazine\". It was discontinued after the release of No. 4.\n\n\n\nIn Italy, the first season got an average share of 8.2%, sometimes reaching 11%.\n\n"}
{"id": "1662042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1662042", "title": "Ars Aevi", "text": "Ars Aevi\n\nArs Aevi is a museum of contemporary art in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was established during the Siege of Sarajevo as a cultural resistance movement to the Bosnian war. It holds a collection of 1,600 pieces, including approximately 130 works by renowned world artists such as Pablo Picasso, Michelangelo Pistoletto, Jannis Kounellis, Joseph Beuys, Marina Abramović and Joseph Kosuth. A new museum building, designed by Renzo Piano, is planned to be built in the upcoming years. \n\n"}
{"id": "35042351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35042351", "title": "Azerbaijan State Pantomime Theatre", "text": "Azerbaijan State Pantomime Theatre\n\nAzerbaijan State Pantomime Theatre () is a pantomime theatre in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n\nThe theatre was founded in 1994 by Bakhtiyar Khanizadeh, an actor of the Azerbaijan State Theatre of Young Spectators. He worked closely with students of the Azerbaijan State University of Culture and Arts and selected the ones he considered fit to establish the pioneer mime theatre studio in Azerbaijan. For the next 11 years, the theatre was based in the building of the Theatre of Young Spectators until relocated to the building of the Shafag Cinema. In 2000, the theatre received the status of a state theatre.\n\nBeginning in 2000, the theatre has twice housed the Himjim International Pantomime festivals. As of 2009, it has toured 12 countries, its repertoire including 24 plays by both local and foreign playwrights.\n"}
{"id": "29636980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29636980", "title": "Choto Sona Mosque", "text": "Choto Sona Mosque\n\nChoto Shona Mosque (, \"Small Golden Mosque\") is located in Chapai Nawabganj district of Bangladesh. The mosque is situated about south of the Kotwali Gate and to the south-east of the Mughal Tahakhana complex in the Firozpur Quarter.\n\nThe mosque was built during the reign of Sultan Hussain Shah, between 1493 and 1519. The fifteen domes of the mosque were once gilded, giving the mosque the name of \"Choto Shona Masjid\" (\"Small Golden Mosque\"). The mosque is one of the best-preserved sultana monuments under protection by the Department of Archaeology and Museums, Governments of Bangladesh. The gilding that gave the building its name does not exist anymore. The mosque premise, which covers an area of 42 m from east to west by 43.5 m from north to south, was originally surrounded by an outer wall (now restored) with a gateway in the middle of the east side.\n\nBuilt of brick and stone, the mosque proper forms a rectangle having outside dimensions of from north to south and from east to west. All the four walls are veneered externally and to some extent also internally with granite stone blocks. These stones have disappeared from the southern side of the west wall because of conservation works after the destruction by the earthquake of 1897. The four exterior angles of the building are strengthened with polygonal towers, of which nine facets are visible. The cornices are curvilinear and have stone gutters to drain off the rain water from the roof. There are five arched doorways in the eastern facade and three each on the north and south walls. Corresponding to the five archways in the east wall there are five semi-circular \"mihrabs\" inside the west wall. The stones of most of these miharbs have disappeared.\n\nThe interior of the mosque, measuring , is divided into three aisles by two rows of stone pillars, four in each row. A wide central nave has cut the aisles into halves, each half showing six equal square units with a side of 3.5 m. The nave has three rectangular units, each measuring 3.5 by 4.5 m. The interior of the mosque has therefore a total of fifteen units, of which the three rectangular units are covered with \"chauchala\" vaults, and the remaining twelve square units each by an inverted tumbler-shaped dome. They are all carried on radiating arches springing from the free-standing stone pillars and the engaged pilasters. The upper corners in between the arches of the square units are filled with corbelled brick pendentive to make up the phase of transition for the domes. At the northwest corner of the mosque there is a royal gallery forming an upper floor, which is still standing in a dilapidated condition. It was approached from the northwest corner of the mosque through a stepped platform connected with a doorway. The gallery has a mihrab in front.\n\nStone carving, brick-setting, terracotta, gilding and glazed tiles were used in decorating the building, and of them the former played the dominant role. The subject matters of the stone carving were chosen according to the demand of the spaces, e.g., the borders of the panels with creepers and their interior with various forms of stylised hanging patterns adapted from the chain-and-bell of the Bauddha and Jaina period. The spandrels of arches and the spaces above the frames are always dotted with rosettes, an attractive form of designs, but are all carved differently. The interior of the domes and vaults are decorated with terracottas, those of the vaults being copies of the bamboo frames of local huts. All the frontal archways and those of the \"mihrabs\" are cusped.\nThe most important ornamentation of the mosque is to be seen on the frontal courtyard of the mosque, only recently excavated. The ornamentation consists of mosaic roundels in blue and white colours of variegated design. The mosaic design is not \"in situ\", but a roundel has been composed by the excavators, putting the flakes in their appropriate places and exhibiting it in a room attached to the guesthouse nearby. At a distance of 14.5 m to the east of the gateway there is a stone platform containing two tomb sarcophagi inscribed with verses from the Quran and some names of God. It is unknown who is buried here. Cunningham suggests these are the tombs of Wali Muhammad, the builder of the mosque, and his father Ali.\n\nThe glamour of the Chhoto Sona Masjid is not there as it was originally, particularly because of the stripping of the decorative mihrabs and the mosque courtyard, but the remains are nevertheless one of the most attractive monuments of Guar-Lakhnauti.\n\n"}
{"id": "38488307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38488307", "title": "Coa vestis", "text": "Coa vestis\n\nCoa vestis is an ancient type of fabric named after its point of origin, the Greek island Kos.\n\n\"Coa vestis\" was made by the wild silk of \"Pachypasa otus\", a Mediterranean moth.\nAristotle first mentioned \"coa vestis\" in the 4th century BC.\n\nThe elder Pliny reported Pamphila of Kos, daughter of Plateas, discovered the secret of silk manufacture.\n\nAfter the 1st century AD the \"coa vestis\" was gradually superseded by Chinese silk, which was superior in quality.\n"}
{"id": "30860428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860428", "title": "Coffeemaker", "text": "Coffeemaker\n\nCoffeemakers or coffee machines are cooking appliances used to brew coffee. While there are many different types of coffeemakers using a number of different brewing principles, in the most common devices, coffee grounds are placed in a paper or metal filter inside a funnel, which is set over a glass or ceramic coffee pot, a cooking pot in the kettle family. Cold water is poured into a separate chamber, which is then heated up to the boiling point, and directed into the funnel. This is also called \"automatic drip-brew\".\n\nFor hundreds of years, making a cup of coffee was a simple process. Roasted and ground coffee beans were placed in a pot or pan, to which hot water was added, followed by attachment of a lid to commence the infusion process. Pots were designed specifically for brewing coffee, all with the purpose of trying to trap the coffee grounds before the coffee is poured. Typical designs feature a pot with a flat expanded bottom to catch sinking grounds and a sharp pour spout that traps the floating grinds. Other designs feature a wide bulge in the middle of the pot to catch grounds when coffee is poured.\n\nIn France, in about 1710, the Infusion brewing process was introduced. This involved submersing the ground coffee, usually enclosed in a linen bag, in hot water and letting it steep or \"infuse\" until the desired strength brew was achieved. Nevertheless, throughout the 19th and even the early 20th centuries, it was considered adequate to add ground coffee to hot water in a pot or pan, boil it until it smelled right, and pour the brew into a cup.\n\nThere were lots of innovations from France in the late 18th century. With help from Jean-Baptiste de Belloy, the Archbishop of Paris, the idea that coffee should not be boiled gained acceptance. The first modern method for making coffee using a coffee filter—drip brewing—is more than 125 years old, and its design had changed little. The \"biggin\", originating in France ca. 1780, was a two-level pot holding coffee in a cloth sock in an upper compartment into which water was poured, to drain through holes in the bottom of the compartment into the coffee pot below. Coffee was then dispensed from a spout on the side of the pot. The quality of the brewed coffee depended on the size of the grounds - too coarse and the coffee was weak; too fine and the water would not drip the filter. A major problem with this approach was that the taste of the cloth filter - whether cotton, burlap or an old sock - transferred to the taste of the coffee. Around the same time, a French inventor developed the \"pumping percolator\", in which boiling water in a bottom chamber forces itself up a tube and then trickles (percolates) through the ground coffee back into the bottom chamber. Among other French innovations, Count Rumford, an eccentric American scientist residing in Paris, developed a French Drip Pot with an insulating water jacket to keep the coffee hot. Also, the first metal filter was developed and patented by French inventor.\n\nOther coffee brewing devices became popular throughout the nineteenth century, including various machines using the vacuum principle. The Napier Vacuum Machine, invented in 1840, was an early example of this type. While generally too complex for everyday use, vacuum devices were prized for producing a clear brew, and were popular up until the middle of the twentieth century.\n\nThe principle of a vacuum brewer was to heat water in a lower vessel until expansion forced the contents through a narrow tube into an upper vessel containing ground coffee. When the lower vessel was empty and sufficient brewing time had elapsed, the heat was removed and the resulting vacuum would draw the brewed coffee back through a strainer into the lower chamber, from which it could be decanted. The Bauhaus interpretation of this device can be seen in Gerhard Marcks' Sintrax coffee maker of 1925.\n\nAn early variant technique, called a balance siphon, was to have the two chambers arranged side-by-side on a sort of scale-like device, with a counterweight attached opposite the initial (or heating) chamber. Once the near-boiling water was forced from the heating chamber into the brewing one, the counterweight was activated, causing a spring-loaded snuffer to come down over the flame, thus turning \"off\" the heat, and allowing the cooled water to return to the original chamber. In this way, a sort of primitive 'automatic' brewing method was achieved.\n\nOn August 27, 1930, Inez H. Pierce of Chicago, Illinois filed patent for the first vacuum coffee maker that truly automated the vacuum brewing process, while eliminating the need for a stove top burner or liquid fuels. An electrically heated stove was incorporated into the design of the vacuum brewer. Water was heated in a recessed well, which reduced wait times and forced the hottest water into the reaction chamber. Once the process was complete, a thermostat using bi-metallic expansion principles shut off heat to the unit at the appropriate time. Pierce's invention was the first truly \"automatic\" vacuum coffee brewer, and was later incorporated in the Farberware \"Coffee Robot\".\n\nPierce's design was later improved by U.S. appliance engineers Ivar Jepson, Ludvik Koci, and Eric Bylund of Sunbeam in the late 1930s. They altered the heating chamber and eliminated the recessed well which was hard to clean. They also made several improvements to the filtering mechanism. Their improved design of plated metals, styled by industrial designer Alfonso Iannelli, became the famous Sunbeam \"Coffeemaster\" line of automated vacuum coffee makers (Models C-20, C-30, C40, and C-50). The Coffeemaster vacuum brewer was sold in large numbers in the United States during the years immediately following World War I.\n\nPercolators began to be developed from the mid-nineteenth century. In the United States, James H. Mason of Massachusetts patented an early percolator design in 1865. An Illinois farmer named Hanson Goodrich is generally credited with patenting the modern percolator. Goodrich's patent was granted on August 16, 1889, and his patent description varies little from the stovetop percolators sold today. With the percolator design, water is heated in a boiling pot with a removable lid, until the heated water is forced through a metal tube into a brew basket containing coffee. The extracted liquid drains from the brew basket, where it drips back into the pot. This process is continually repeated during the brewing cycle until the liquid passing repeatedly through the grounds is sufficiently steeped. A clear sight chamber in the form of a transparent knob on the lid of the percolator enables the user to judge when the coffee has reached the proper color and strength.\n\nDomestic electrification simplified the operation of percolators by providing for a self-contained, electrically powered heating element that removed the need to use a stovetop burner. A critical element in the success of the electric coffee maker was the creation of safe and secure fuses and heating elements. In an article in House Furnishing Review, May 1915, Lewis Stephenson of Landers, Frary and Clark described a modular safety plug being used in his company's Universal appliances, and the advent of numerous patents and innovations in temperature control and circuit breakers provided for the success of many new percolator and vacuum models. While early percolators had utilized all-glass construction (prized for maintaining purity of flavor), most percolators made from the 1930s were constructed of metal, especially aluminum and nickel-plated copper.\n\nThe method for making coffee in a percolator had barely changed since its introduction in the early part of the 20th century. However, in 1970 General Foods Corporation introduced Max Pax, the first commercially available \"ground coffee filter rings\". The Max Pax filters were named so as to compliment General Foods' Maxwell House coffee brand. The Max Pax coffee filter rings were designed for use in percolators, and each ring contained a pre-measured amount of coffee grounds that were sealed in a self-contained paper filter. The sealed rings resembled the shape of a doughnut, and the small hole in the middle of the ring enabled the coffee filter ring to be placed in the metal percolator basket around the protruding convection (percolator) tube. \nPrior to the introduction of pre-measured self-contained ground coffee filter rings, fresh coffee grounds were measured out in scoopfuls and placed into the metal percolator basket. This process enabled small amounts of coffee grounds to leak into the fresh coffee. Additionally, the process left wet grounds in the percolator basket, which were very tedious to clean. The benefit of the Max Pax coffee filter rings was two-fold: First, because the amount of coffee contained in the rings was pre-measured, it negated the need to measure each scoop and then place it in the metal percolator basket. Second, the filter paper was strong enough to hold all the coffee grounds within the sealed paper. After use, the coffee filter ring could be easily removed from the basket and discarded. This saved the consumer from the tedious task of cleaning out the remaining wet coffee grounds from the percolator basket.\n\nWith the introduction of the electric drip coffee maker for the home in the early 1970s, the popularity of percolators plummeted, and so did the market for the self-contained ground coffee filters. In 1976, General Foods discontinued the manufacture of Max Pax, and by the end of the decade, even generic ground coffee filter rings were no longer available on U.S. supermarket shelves.\n\nThe moka pot is a stove-top coffee maker which produces coffee by passing hot water pressurized by steam through ground coffee. It was first patented by inventor Luigi De Ponti for Alfonso Bialetti in 1933. Bialetti Industrie continues to produce the same model under the name \"Moka Express\".\nThe moka pot is most commonly used in Europe and in Latin America. It has become an iconic design, displayed in modern industrial art and design museums such as the Wolfsonian- FIU, Museum of Modern Art, the Cooper–Hewitt, National Design Museum, the Design Museum, and the London Science Museum. Moka pots come in different sizes, from one to eighteen 50 ml cups. The original design and many current models are made from aluminium with bakelite handles.\n\nAn electric drip coffee maker can also be referred to as a dripolator. It normally works by admitting water from a cold water reservoir into a flexible hose in the base of the reservoir leading directly to a thin metal tube or heating chamber (usually, of aluminum), where a heating element surrounding the metal tube heats the water. The heated water moves through the machine using the \"thermosiphon principle\". Thermally-induced pressure and the siphoning effect move the heated water through an insulated rubber or vinyl riser hose, into a spray head, and onto the ground coffee, which is contained in a brew basket mounted below the spray head. The coffee passes through a filter and drips down into the carafe. A one-way valve in the tubing prevents water from siphoning back into the reservoir. A thermostat attached to the heating element turns off the heating element as needed to prevent overheating the water in the metal tube (overheating would produce only steam in the supply hose), then turns back on when the water cools below a certain threshold. For a standard 10-12 cup drip coffeemaker, using a more powerful thermostatically-controlled heating element (in terms of wattage produced), can heat increased amounts of water more quickly using larger heating chambers, generally producing higher average water temperatures at the spray head over the entire brewing cycle. This process can be further improved by changing the aluminum construction of most heating chambers to a metal with superior heat transfer qualities, such as copper.\n\nThroughout the latter part of the 20th century, a number of inventors patented various coffeemaker designs using an automated form of the drip brew method. Subsequent designs have featured changes in heating elements, spray head, and brew-basket design, as well as the addition of timers and clocks for automatic-start, water filtration, filter and carafe design, and even built-in coffee grinding mechanisms.\n\nBunn-O-Matic came out with a different drip-brew machine. In this type of coffeemaker, the machine uses a holding tank or boiler pre-filled with water. When the machine is turned on, all of the water in the holding tank is brought to near boiling point (approximately 200207 °F or 9397 °C) using a thermostatically-controlled heating element. When water is poured into a top-mounted tray, it descends into a funnel and tube which delivers the cold water to the bottom of the boiler. The less-dense hot water in the boiler is displaced out of the tank and into a tube leading to the spray head, where it drips into a brew basket containing the ground coffee. The pourover, water displacement method of coffeemaking tends to produce brewed coffee at a much faster rate than standard drip designs. Its primary disadvantage is increased electricity consumption in order to preheat the water in the boiler. Additionally, the water displacement method is most efficient when used to brew coffee at the machine's maximum or near-maximum capacity, as typically found in restaurant or office usage. In 1963, Bunn introduced the first automatic coffee brewer, which connected to a waterline for an automatic water feed.\n\nA cafetiere (Coffee Plunger, French press in US English) requires coffee of a coarser grind than does a drip brew coffee filter, as finer grounds will seep through the press filter and into the coffee. Coffee is brewed by placing the coffee and water together, stirring it and leaving to brew for a few minutes, then pressing the plunger to trap the coffee grounds at the bottom of the beaker.\n\nBecause the coffee grounds remain in direct contact with the brewing water and the grounds are filtered from the water via a mesh instead of a paper filter, coffee brewed with the cafetiere captures more of the coffee's flavour and essential oils, which would become trapped in a traditional drip brew machine's paper filters. As with drip-brewed coffee, cafetiere coffee can be brewed to any strength by adjusting the amount of ground coffee which is brewed. If the used grounds remain in the drink after brewing, French pressed coffee left to stand can become \"bitter\", though this is an effect that many users of cafetiere consider beneficial. For a cafetiere, the contents are considered spoiled, by some reports, after around 20 minutes. Other approaches consider a brew period that may extend to hours as a method of superior production.\n\nThe single-serve or single-cup coffeemaker has gained popularity in recent years. Single-serve brewing systems let a certain amount of water heated at a precise temperature go through a coffee portion pack (or coffee pod), brewing a standardized cup of coffee into a recipient placed under the beverage outlet. \nA coffee portion pack has an air-tight seal to ensure product freshness. It contains a determined quantity of ground coffee and usually encloses an internal filter paper for optimal brewing results. \nThe single-serve coffeemaker technology often allows the choice of cup size and brew strength, and delivers a cup of brewed coffee rapidly, usually at the touch of a button. Today, a variety of beverages are available for brewing with single-cup machines such as tea, hot chocolate and milk-based specialty beverages.\nSingle-cup coffee machines are designed for both home and commercial use.\n\nAt the beginning of the twentieth century, although some coffee makers tended to uniformity of design (particularly stovetop percolators), others displayed a wide variety of styling differences. In particular, the vacuum brewer, which required two fully separate chambers joined in an hourglass configuration, seemed to inspire industrial designers. Interest in new designs for the vacuum brewer revived during the American Arts & Crafts movement with the introduction of \"Silex\" brand coffee makers, based on models developed by Massachusetts housewives Ann Bridges and Mrs. Sutton. Their use of Pyrex solved the problem of fragility and breakability that had made this type of machine commercially unattractive. During the 1930s, simple, clean forms, increasingly of metal, attracted positive attention from industrial designers heavily influenced by the functionalist imperative of the Bauhaus and Streamline movements. It was at this time that Sunbeam's sleek Coffeemaster vacuum brewer appeared, styled by the famous industrial designer Alfonso Iannelli. The popularity of glass and Pyrex globes temporarily revived during the Second World War, since aluminum, chrome, and other metals used in traditional coffee makers became restricted in availability.\n\nThe impact of science and technological advances as a motif in post-war design was eventually felt in the manufacture and marketing of coffee and coffee-makers. Consumer guides emphasized the ability of the device to meet standards of temperature and brewing time, and the ratio of soluble elements between brew and grounds. The industrial chemist Peter Schlumbohm expressed the scientific motif most purely in his \"Chemex\" coffeemaker, which from its initial marketing in the early 1940s used the authority of science as a sales tool, describing the product as \"the Chemist's way of making coffee\", and discussing at length the quality of its product in the language of the laboratory: \"the funnel of the CHEMEX creates ideal hydrostatic conditions for the unique... Chemex extraction.\" Schlumbohm's unique brewer, a single Pyrex vessel shaped to hold a proprietary filter cone, resembled nothing more than a piece of laboratory equipment, and surprisingly became popular for a time in the otherwise heavily automated, technology-obsessed 1950s household.\n\nIn later years, coffeemakers began to adopt more standardized forms commensurate with a large increase in the scale of production required to meet postwar consumer demand. Plastics and composite materials began to replace metal, particularly with the advent of newer electric drip coffeemakers in the 1970s. During the 1990s, consumer demand for more attractive appliances to complement expensive modern kitchens resulted in a new wave of redesigned coffeemakers in a wider range of available colors and styles.\n\nSeveral models of propane gas powered coffee machines are also available.\n\n"}
{"id": "3810802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810802", "title": "Crying the Neck", "text": "Crying the Neck\n\nCrying The Neck is a harvest festival tradition once common in counties of Devon and Cornwall in the United Kingdom in Europe. The tradition declined following the invention of machines such as the combine harvester.\n\nThe tradition is no longer known to be practiced in Devon. In Cornwall, however, the tradition was revived in the early twentieth century by the Old Cornwall Society.\n\nIn \"The Story of Cornwall\", by Kenneth Hamilton Jenkin, the following explanation is given on the practice:\n\nThe rest would then shout, \n\nand the reply would be: \n\nEveryone then joined in shouting:\n\n(calling the farmer by name.)\"\n\nIn a harvest scene in the third episode of the second series of the 2015 of \"Poldark\" (S02 E03), Francis Poldark performs the tradition at Trenwith, his estate.\n\nIn a harvest scene in the third episode of supernatural drama \"The Living and the Dead\" (S01 E03), Charlotte Appleby performs the tradition at her husband's family farm, which she manages.\n\n\n\n \n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20120315040347/http://picturepenzance.co.uk/photos/showimage.php?i=24287&c=680"}
{"id": "23658635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23658635", "title": "De Bezige Bij", "text": "De Bezige Bij\n\nDe Bezige Bij (\"the busy bee\") is one of the most important literary publishing companies in the Netherlands.\n\nThe company was founded illegally in 1943, during the German occupation of the Netherlands by ; its first publication was a poem by Jan Campert called \"De Achttien Dooden\" (\"The eighteen dead\"), which describes the execution of 15 resistance fighters and three communists. The poem was sold to raise money for Jewish children who were placed with Dutch families; when it was published, in the spring of 1943, Campert had already died in the Neuengamme concentration camp. When the German occupier rounded up students for the Arbeitseinsatz, Lubberhuizen hid in the attic of Maarten Vink, a surgeon, and ran the press from there.\n\nThe name is derived from one of Lubberhuizen's aliases, \"Bas.\" After he had signed a note, \"Bas (busy),\" an English-speaking friend joked, \"Bas, busy as a bee can be,\" which led to the current name.\n\nIn 1997, De Bezige Bij became part of the Weekbladpersgroep, though it was to keep its editorial independence and its cooperative structure.\n\nWriters published by De Bezige Bij include:\n"}
{"id": "891117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=891117", "title": "Discount card", "text": "Discount card\n\nA discount card is a card or document, often a plastic credit card or paper card, that entitles the holder to discounts on the prices of some products or services. Cards may be issued as part of a loyalty program, offering discounts to existing customers to ensure their continuing custom; they may be offered free of charge, offering a modest discount with the intention of persuading purchasers to patronise participating shops; or they may be sold to members, offering larger discounts—for example, the tastecard offers 50% discounts at many restaurants—at a substantial annual cost. Cards may be offered by merchants or groups of merchants, by clubs or associations who negotiate on behalf of all members to obtain benefits, or by official organisations offering concessionary prices to qualifying groups, such as the disabled.\n\n"}
{"id": "39566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39566", "title": "English Renaissance theatre", "text": "English Renaissance theatre\n\nEnglish Renaissance theatre—also known as Renaissance English theatre and Elizabethan theatre—refers to the theatre of England between 1562 and 1642.\n\nThis is the style of the plays of William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe and Ben Jonson.\n\nThe term \"English Renaissance theatre\" encompasses the period between 1562—following a performance of \"Gorboduc\", the first English play using blank verse, at the Inner Temple during the Christmas season of 1561—and the ban on theatrical plays enacted by the English Parliament in 1642.\n\nThe phrase \"Elizabethan theatre\" is sometimes used, improperly, to mean \"English Renaissance theatre,\" although in a strict sense \"Elizabethan\" only refers to the period of Queen Elizabeth's reign (1558–1603). \"English Renaissance theatre\" may be said to encompass \"Elizabethan theatre\" from 1562 to 1603, \"Jacobean theatre\" from 1603 to 1625, and \"Caroline theatre\" from 1625 to 1642.\n\nAlong with the economics of the profession, the character of the drama changed towards the end of the period. Under Elizabeth, the drama was a unified expression as far as social class was concerned: the Court watched the same plays the commoners saw in the public playhouses. With the development of the private theatres, drama became more oriented towards the tastes and values of an upper-class audience. By the later part of the reign of Charles I, few new plays were being written for the public theatres, which sustained themselves on the accumulated works of the previous decades.\n\nThe English grammar schools, like those on the continent, placed special emphasis on the \"trivium\": grammar, logic, and rhetoric. Though rhetorical instruction was intended as preparation for careers in civil service such as law, the rhetorical canons of memory (\"memoria\") and delivery (\"pronuntiatio\"), gesture and voice, as well as exercises from the \"progymnasmata\", such as the \"prosopopoeia\", taught theatrical skills. Students would typically analyze Latin and Greek texts, write their own compositions, memorize them, and then perform them in front of their instructor and their peers. Records show that in addition to this weekly performance, students would perform plays on holidays, and in both Latin and English.\n\nChoir schools connected with the Elizabethan court included St. George’s Chapel, the Chapel Royal, and St. Paul’s. These schools never performed plays and other court entertainments for the Queen. Between the 1560s and 1570s these schools had begun to perform for general audiences as well. Playing companies of boy actors were derived from choir schools. An earlier example of a playwright contracted to write for the children's companies is John Lyly, who wrote \"Gallathea\", \"Endymion\", and \"Midas\" for Paul’s Boys. Another example is Ben Jonson, who wrote \"Cynthia’s Revels\".\n\nAcademic drama stems from late medieval and early modern practices of miracles and morality plays as well as the Feast of Fools and the election of a Lord of Misrule. The Feast of Fools includes mummer plays. The universities, particularly Oxford and Cambridge, were attended by students studying for bachelor's degrees and master's degrees, followed by doctorates in Law, Medicine, and Theology. In the 1400s, dramas were often restricted to mummer plays with someone who read out all the parts in Latin. With the rediscovery and redistribution of classical materials during the English Renaissance, Latin and Greek plays began to be restaged. These plays were often accompanied by feasts. Queen Elizabeth I viewed dramas during her visits to Oxford and Cambridge. A well-known play cycle which was written and performed in the universities was the \"Parnassus Plays\".\n\nUpon graduation, many university students, especially those going into law, would reside and participate in the Inns of Court. The Inns of Court were communities of working lawyers and university alumni. Notable literary figures and playwrights who resided in the Inns of Court include John Donne, Francis Beaumont, John Marston, Thomas Lodge, Thomas Campion, Abraham Fraunce, Sir Philip Sidney, Sir Thomas More, Sir Francis Bacon, and George Gascoigne. Like the university, the Inns of Court elected their own Lord of Misrule. Other activities included participation in moot court, disputation, and masques. Plays written and performed in the Inns of Court include \"Gorboduc\", \"Gismund of Salerne\", and \"The Misfortunes of Arthur\". An example of a famous masque put on by the Inns was James Shirley’s \"The Triumph of Peace\". Shakespeare’s \"The Comedy of Errors\" and \"Twelfth Night\" were also performed here, although written for commercial theater.\n\nThe first permanent English theatre, the Red Lion, opened in 1567 but it was a short-lived failure. The first successful theatres, such as The Theatre, opened in 1576.\n\nThe establishment of large and profitable public theatres was an essential enabling factor in the success of English Renaissance drama. Once they were in operation, drama could become a fixed and permanent, rather than transitory, phenomenon. Their construction was prompted when the Mayor and Corporation of London first banned plays in 1572 as a measure against the plague, and then formally expelled all players from the city in 1575. This prompted the construction of permanent playhouses outside the jurisdiction of London, in the liberties of Halliwell/Holywell in Shoreditch and later the Clink, and at Newington Butts near the established entertainment district of St. George's Fields in rural Surrey. The Theatre was constructed in Shoreditch in 1576 by James Burbage with his brother-in-law John Brayne (the owner of the unsuccessful Red Lion playhouse of 1567) and the Newington Butts playhouse was set up, probably by Jerome Savage, some time between 1575 and 1577. The Theatre was rapidly followed by the nearby Curtain Theatre (1577), the Rose (1587), the Swan (1595), the Globe (1599), the Fortune (1600), and the Red Bull (1604).\n\nArchaeological excavations on the foundations of the Rose and the Globe in the late 20th century showed that all the London theatres had individual differences, but their common function necessitated a similar general plan. The public theatres were three stories high, and built around an open space at the centre. Usually polygonal in plan to give an overall rounded effect, although the Red Bull and the first Fortune were square. The three levels of inward-facing galleries overlooked the open centre, into which jutted the stage: essentially a platform surrounded on three sides by the audience. The rear side was restricted for the entrances and exits of the actors and seating for the musicians. The upper level behind the stage could be used as a balcony, as in \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Antony and Cleopatra\", or as a position from which an actor could harangue a crowd, as in \"Julius Caesar\".\n\nThe playhouses were generally built with timber and plaster. Individual theatre descriptions give additional information about their construction, such as flint stones being used to build the Swan. Theatres were also constructed to be able to hold a large number of people.\n\nA different model was developed with the Blackfriars Theatre, which came into regular use on a long-term basis in 1599. The Blackfriars was small in comparison to the earlier theatres and roofed rather than open to the sky. It resembled a modern theatre in ways that its predecessors did not. Other small enclosed theatres followed, notably the Whitefriars (1608) and the Cockpit (1617). With the building of the Salisbury Court Theatre in 1629 near the site of the defunct Whitefriars, the London audience had six theatres to choose from: three surviving large open-air public theatres—the Globe, the Fortune, and the Red Bull—and three smaller enclosed private theatres: the Blackfriars, the Cockpit, and the Salisbury Court. Audiences of the 1630s benefited from a half-century of vigorous dramaturgical development; the plays of Marlowe and Shakespeare and their contemporaries were still being performed on a regular basis, mostly at the public theatres, while the newest works of the newest playwrights were abundant as well, mainly at the private theatres.\n\nAround 1580, when both the Theatre and the Curtain were full on summer days, the total theatre capacity of London was about 5000 spectators. With the building of new theatre facilities and the formation of new companies, London's total theatre capacity exceeded 10,000 after 1610.\n\nTicket prices in general varied during this time period. The cost of admission was based on where in the theatre a person wished to be situated, or based on what a person could afford. If people wanted a better view of the stage or to be more separate from the crowd, they would pay more for their entrance. Due to inflation that occurred during this time period, admission increased in some theatres from a penny to a sixpence or even higher.\n\nCommercial theaters were largely located just outside the boundaries of the City of London, since City authorities tended to be wary of the adult playing companies, but plays were performed by touring companies all over England. English companies even toured and performed English plays abroad, especially in Germany and in Denmark.\n\nThe acting companies functioned on a repertory system: unlike modern productions that can run for months or years on end, the troupes of this era rarely acted the same play two days in a row. Thomas Middleton's \"A Game at Chess\" ran for nine straight performances in August 1624 before it was closed by the authorities; but this was due to the political content of the play and was a unique, unprecedented, and unrepeatable phenomenon. The 1592 season of Lord Strange's Men at the Rose Theatre was far more representative: between 19 February and 23 June the company played six days a week, minus Good Friday and two other days. They performed 23 different plays, some only once, and their most popular play of the season, \"The First Part of Hieronimo\", based on Kyd's \"The Spanish Tragedy\", 15 times. They never played the same play two days in a row, and rarely the same play twice in a week. The workload on the actors, especially the leading performers like Richard Burbage or Edward Alleyn, must have been tremendous.\n\nOne distinctive feature of the companies was that they included only males. Female parts were played by adolescent boy players in women's costume. Some companies were composed entirely of boy players. Performances in the public theatres (like the Globe) took place in the afternoon with no artificial lighting, but when, in the course of a play, the light began to fade, candles were lit. In the enclosed private theatres (like the Blackfriars) artificial lighting was used throughout. Plays contained little to no scenery as the scenery was described by the actors or indicated by costume through the course of the play.\n\nIn the Elizabethan era, research has been conclusive about how many actors and troupes there were in the 16th century, but little research delves into the roles of the actors on the English renaissance stage. The first point is that during the Elizabethan era, women were not allowed to act on stage. The actors were all male; in fact, most were boys. For plays written that had male and female parts, the female parts were played by the youngest boy players.\n\nIn Elizabethan entertainment, troupes were created and they were considered the actor companies. They traveled around England as drama was the most entertaining art at the time. As a boy player, many skills had to be implemented such as voice and athleticism (fencing was one). Stronger female roles in tragedies were acted by older boy players because they had the experience.\nElizabethan actors never played the same show on successive days and added a new play to their repertoire every other week. These actors were getting paid within these troupes so for their job, they would constantly learn new plays as they toured different cities in England. In these plays, there were bookkeepers that acted as the narrators of these plays and they would introduce the actors and the different roles they played. At some points, the bookkeeper wouldn’t state the narrative of the scene, so the audience could find out for themselves. In Elizabethan and Jacobean plays, the plays often exceeded the number of characters/roles and didn’t have enough actors to fulfill them, thus the idea of doubling roles came to be. Doubling roles is used to reinforce a plays theme by having the actor act out the different roles simultaneously. The reason for this was for the acting companies to control salary costs, or to be able to perform under conditions where resources such as other actor companies lending actors were not present.\nThere are two acting styles implemented. Formal and natural. Formal acting is objective and traditional, natural acting attempts to create an illusion for the audience by remaining in character and imitating the fictional circumstances. The formal actor symbolizes while the natural actor interprets. The natural actor impersonates while the formal actor represents the role. Natural and formal are opposites of each other, where natural acting is subjective. Overall, the use of these acting styles and the doubled roles dramatic device made Elizabethan plays very popular.\n\nOne of the main uses of costume during the Elizabethan era was to make up for the lack of scenery, set, and props on stage. It created a visual effect for the audience, and it was an integral part of the overall performance. Since the main visual appeal on stage were the costumes, they were often bright in colour and visually entrancing. Colours symbolized social hierarchy, and costumes were made to reflect that. For example, if a character was royalty, their costume would include purple. The colours, as well as the different fabrics of the costumes, allowed the audience to know the status of each character when they first appeared on stage.\n\nCostumes were collected in inventory. More often than not, costumes wouldn't be made individually to fit the actor. Instead, they would be selected out of the stock that theatre companies would keep. A theatre company reused costumes when possible and would rarely get new costumes made. Costumes themselves were expensive, so usually players wore contemporary clothing regardless of the time period of the play. The most expensive pieces were given to higher class characters because costuming was used to identify social status on stage. The fabrics within a playhouse would indicate the wealth of the company itself. The fabrics used the most were: velvet, satin, silk, cloth-of-gold, lace, and ermine. For less significant characters; actors would use their own clothes.\n\nActors also left clothes in their will for following actors to use. Masters would also leave clothes for servants in their will, but servants weren’t allowed to wear fancy clothing, instead, they sold the clothes back to theatre companies. In the Elizabethan era, there was a law stating that certain classes could only wear clothing fitting of their status in society. There was a discrimination of status within the classes. Higher classes flaunted their wealth and power through the appearance of clothing, however, actors were the only exception. If actors belonged to a licensed acting company, they were allowed to dress above their standing in society for specific roles in a production.\n\nThe growing population of London, the growing wealth of its people, and their fondness for spectacle produced a dramatic literature of remarkable variety, quality, and extent. Although most of the plays written for the Elizabethan stage have been lost, over 600 remain.\n\nThe people who wrote these plays were primarily self-made men from modest backgrounds. Some of them were educated at either Oxford or Cambridge, but many were not. Although William Shakespeare and Ben Jonson were actors, the majority do not seem to have been performers, and no major author who came on to the scene after 1600 is known to have supplemented his income by acting. Their lives were subject to the same levels of danger and earlier mortality as all who lived during the early modern period: Christopher Marlowe was killed in an apparent tavern brawl, while Ben Jonson killed an actor in a duel. Several were probably soldiers.\n\nPlaywrights were normally paid in increments during the writing process, and if their play was accepted, they would also receive the proceeds from one day's performance. However, they had no ownership of the plays they wrote. Once a play was sold to a company, the company owned it, and the playwright had no control over casting, performance, revision, or publication.\n\nThe profession of dramatist was challenging and far from lucrative. Entries in Philip Henslowe's Diary show that in the years around 1600 Henslowe paid as little as £6 or £7 per play. This was probably at the low end of the range, though even the best writers could not demand too much more. A playwright, working alone, could generally produce two plays a year at most. In the 1630s Richard Brome signed a contract with the Salisbury Court Theatre to supply three plays a year, but found himself unable to meet the workload. Shakespeare produced fewer than 40 solo plays in a career that spanned more than two decades: he was financially successful because he was an actor and, most importantly, a shareholder in the company for which he acted and in the theatres they used. Ben Jonson achieved success as a purveyor of Court masques, and was talented at playing the patronage game that was an important part of the social and economic life of the era. Those who were purely playwrights fared far less well: the biographies of early figures like George Peele and Robert Greene, and later ones like Brome and Philip Massinger, are marked by financial uncertainty, struggle, and poverty.\n\nPlaywrights dealt with the natural limitation on their productivity by combining into teams of two, three, four, and even five to generate play texts. The majority of plays written in this era were collaborations, and the solo artists who generally eschewed collaborative efforts, like Jonson and Shakespeare, were the exceptions to the rule. Dividing the work, of course, meant dividing the income; but the arrangement seems to have functioned well enough to have made it worthwhile. Of the 70-plus known works in the canon of Thomas Dekker, roughly 50 are collaborations. In a single year (1598) Dekker worked on 16 collaborations for impresario Philip Henslowe, and earned £30, or a little under 12 shillings per week—roughly twice as much as the average artisan's income of 1\"s\". per day. At the end of his career, Thomas Heywood would famously claim to have had \"an entire hand, or at least a main finger\" in the authorship of some 220 plays. A solo artist usually needed months to write a play (though Jonson is said to have done \"Volpone\" in five weeks); Henslowe's Diary indicates that a team of four or five writers could produce a play in as little as two weeks. Admittedly, though, the Diary also shows that teams of Henslowe's house dramatists—Anthony Munday, Robert Wilson, Richard Hathwaye, Henry Chettle, and the others, even including a young John Webster—could start a project, and accept advances on it, yet fail to produce anything stageworthy.\n\nGenres of the period included the history play, which depicted English or European history. Shakespeare's plays about the lives of kings, such as \"Richard III\" and \"Henry V\", belong to this category, as do Christopher Marlowe's \"Edward II\" and George Peele's \"Famous Chronicle of King Edward the First\". History plays dealt with more recent events, like \"A Larum for London\" which dramatizes the sack of Antwerp in 1576.\n\nTragedy was a very popular genre. Marlowe's tragedies were exceptionally successful, such as \"Dr. Faustus\" and \"The Jew of Malta\". The audiences particularly liked revenge dramas, such as Thomas Kyd's \"The Spanish Tragedy\". The four tragedies considered to be Shakespeare's greatest (\"Hamlet\", \"Othello\", \"King Lear\", and \"Macbeth\") were composed during this period.\n\nComedies were common, too. A subgenre developed in this period was the city comedy, which deals satirically with life in London after the fashion of Roman New Comedy. Examples are Thomas Dekker's \"The Shoemaker's Holiday\" and Thomas Middleton's \"A Chaste Maid in Cheapside\".\n\nThough marginalised, the older genres like pastoral (\"The Faithful Shepherdess\", 1608), and even the morality play (\"Four Plays in One\", ca. 1608-13) could exert influences. After about 1610, the new hybrid subgenre of the tragicomedy enjoyed an efflorescence, as did the masque throughout the reigns of the first two Stuart kings, James I and Charles I.\n\nOnly a minority of the plays of English Renaissance theatre were ever printed. Of Heywood's 220 plays, only about 20 were published in book form. A little over 600 plays were published in the period as a whole, most commonly in individual quarto editions. (Larger collected editions, like those of Shakespeare's, Ben Jonson's, and Beaumont and Fletcher's plays, were a late and limited development.) Through much of the modern era, it was thought that play texts were popular items among Renaissance readers that provided healthy profits for the stationers who printed and sold them. By the turn of the 21st century, the climate of scholarly opinion shifted somewhat on this belief: some contemporary researchers argue that publishing plays was a risky and marginal business—though this conclusion has been disputed by others. Some of the most successful publishers of the English Renaissance, like William Ponsonby or Edward Blount, rarely published plays.\n\nA small number of plays from the era survived not in printed texts but in manuscript form.\n\nThe rising Puritan movement was hostile toward theatre, as they felt that \"entertainment\" was sinful. Politically, playwrights and actors were clients of the monarchy and aristocracy, and most supported the Royalist cause. The Puritan faction, long powerful in London, gained control of the city early in the First English Civil War, and on 2 September 1642, the Long Parliament, pushed by the Parliamentarian party, under Puritan influence, banned the staging of plays in the London theatres though it did not, contrary to what is commonly stated, order the closure, let alone the destruction, of the theatres themselves:\n\nThe Act purports the ban to be temporary (\"...while these sad causes and set Times of Humiliation do continue, Public Stage Plays shall cease and be forborn\") but does not assign a time limit to it.\n\nEven after 1642, during the English Civil War and the ensuing Interregnum (English Commonwealth, some English Renaissance theatre continued. For example, short comical plays called Drolls were allowed by the authorities, while full-length plays were banned. The theatre buildings were not closed but rather were used for purposes other than staging plays.\n\nThe performance of plays remained banned for most of the next eighteen years, becoming allowed again after the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660. The theatres began performing many of the plays of the previous era, though often in adapted forms. New genres of Restoration comedy and spectacle soon evolved, giving English theatre of the later seventeenth century its distinctive character.\n\n\nAll references to Shakespeare's plays, unless otherwise specified, are taken from the Folger Shakespeare Library's \"Folger Digital Editions\" texts edited by Barbara Mowat, Paul Werstine, Michael Poston, and Rebecca Niles. Under their referencing system, 3.1.55 means act 3, scene 1, line 55. Prologues, epilogues, scene directions, and other parts of the play that are not a part of character speech in a scene, are referenced using Folger Through Line Number: a separate line numbering scheme that includes every line of text in the play.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15898775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15898775", "title": "Fratire", "text": "Fratire\n\nFratire is a type of 21st-century fiction literature written for and marketed to young men in a politically incorrect and overtly masculine fashion. The term was coined following the popularity of works by George Ouzounian (writing under the pen name Maddox) and Tucker Max. Described as a satirical celebration of traditional masculinity, the genre has been criticized for allegedly promoting sexism and misogyny.\n\nFratire generally features male protagonists, usually in their twenties and thirties. It is characterized by masculine themes and could be considered the male equivalent of chick lit. The genre was popularized by Tucker Max's \"I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell\" and Maddox's webpage titled The Best Page in the Universe and his book \"The Alphabet of Manliness\". According to one of the authors, \"fratire as a genre represents the non-mainstream literary reaction to the feminization of masculinity,\" although not all the books address this so directly.\n\nFratire is a portmanteau of fraternity and satire. The term was introduced by \"The New York Times\" reporter Warren St. John in a 2006 article titled \"Dude, here's my book\". Allegedly, it was the only word allowed by the editor. Tucker Max, after first hearing the term during a telephone interview with St. John, said,\n\n\"Great Holy Jesus. Warren, that is awful. First off, I wasn't in a fraternity. Neither was Maddox. In fact, none of the writers you are profiling in your article was in a frat. Please, call it anything else.\"\n\nThe term aimed to classify the recent publication of male-centric books that focused on alcohol and sexual themes. Publishers continued to push the genre as a sales tactic. After the success of the books published by Max and Maddox, publishers and reporters attempted to capitalize on the trend with new iterations of the word, including \"lad-lit,\" \"dicklit,\" \"frat-lit\" and \"menaissance.\"\n\nMelissa Lafsky of \"The New York Times\" described the genre as \"misogyny for sale.\" Lafsky wrote that fratire authors were profiting by fueling young male anger concerning societal demands for equality. In a Salon.com interview with Rebecca Traister, Ouzounian said his writing was a nostalgic parody of old-fashioned masculinity and that society had moved too far forward to return to those concepts. In an interview with Public Radio International, Maddox offered the suggestion that the misogyny often associated with the genre of fratire had become more acceptable because women are stronger than they've ever been in society, and that singling out women as the only group not okay to lampoon is a sexist act in itself. In a 2008 article, Kira Cochrane in the \"New Statesman\" disputed that idea, stating there still remained much inequality between men and women. Cochran called the fratire genre a regression to old-fashioned sexism \"presented under the veil of irony\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4566234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4566234", "title": "Funoon", "text": "Funoon\n\nFunoon was an Urdu literary magazine published by Ahmad Nadeem Qasimi from Lahore, Pakistan. The magazine was started by Ahmed Nadeem Qasmi and Habib Ashar in 1963. The magazine ceased publication in July 2006. Its publication was restarted in 2009.\n\nFunoon's main purpose was to bring new and fresh talent to recognition. Ahmad Nadeem Qasmi was the first editor of this magazine. He used to make selections and edit the magazine till 2006. \n\nThe major sections that were always a part of Funoon magazine are: \n\nThe publication of Funoon magazine was restarted in 2009, by Naheed Qasmi and Nayyer Hayat Qasmi. Since then, it is being published continually. Till July 2016, its 137 volumes have been published.\n\nThere are various numbers published, some of them are \"Mirza Ghalib\" , \"Khadija Mastoor\" , \"Akhtar Hussain Jafri\" , \"Parveen Shakir\" and \"Jadeed Urdu Ghazal Number\".\n\nThe first title of Funoon magazine was composed by artist Abd-ur-Rehman Chughtai. Later, most of the titles were prepared by artist, Basheer Mujid. Now its titles are designed by Nafisa Hayat Qasmi.\n"}
{"id": "41078097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41078097", "title": "Gaudiya Nritya", "text": "Gaudiya Nritya\n\nGaudiya Nritya () or \"Gauriya Nritya\", is a Bengali classical dance tradition. It originates from Gauda, also known as Gaur, in Bengal.\n\nIt has been reconstructed by Mahua Mukherjee. It is not recognised as an Indian classical dance by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, but study of it is eligible for scholarships from the Ministry of Culture of India. Scholarly reception of the reconstruction ranges from caution to scepticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "8239738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8239738", "title": "Goethe Society of North America", "text": "Goethe Society of North America\n\nThe Goethe Society of North America (GSNA) was founded in December 1979 in San Francisco as a non-profit organization dedicated to the encouragement of research on Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832) and his age.\n\nThe Goethe Society has allied organization status with the Modern Language Association (MLA), the American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies (ASECS), and the German Studies Association (GSA).\n\nThe Goethe Society sponsors a book series, \"New Studies in the 'Age of Goethe'\" published by Bucknell University Press. The book series aims to publish one or two volumes per year, focusing on the “Age of Goethe” in relation\nto the fields of literature, history (including art history and \nhistory of science), philosophy, art, music, or politics.\n\nSince 1982 the Goethe Society has published the \"Goethe Yearbook\", which is composed mainly of research, articles, and an extensive reviews section. The \"Yearbook\" aims above all to encourage and publish original English-language contributions to the understanding of Goethe and other authors of the Goethezeit, while also welcoming contributions from scholars around the world. The book review section seeks to evaluate a wide selection of recent publications on the period which has become a respected organ of eighteenth-century studies in diverse disciplines and which is recognized as a vital compendium of current research in its articles and its extensive review section. The \"Goethe Yearbook\" is distributed free to all paid-up members of the GSNA\n"}
{"id": "9090094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9090094", "title": "Heaven Casteel", "text": "Heaven Casteel\n\nHeaven Leigh Casteel is the protagonist of the novels in the Casteel series created by V. C. Andrews, and concluded by Andrew Neiderman after her death.\n\nThe first novel of the same name, \"Heaven\", commences with Heaven and her family's pitiful struggle against poverty in the hills of the West Virginia mountains. Heaven, her father Luke Casteel, her stepmother Sarah, her four half brothers and sisters, Tom, Fanny, Keith and Our Jane, and her grandparents live in a one bedroom shack in the Willies, the mountains above the town Winnerow.\n\nScorned by the people of the valley as being \"hill-billies\" and \"hill scum\", Heaven's pride remains intact, although she is wounded by her father, who ignores her as if she does not exist while lavishing attention on the other children. One night, Heaven's granny takes her to the graveyard and shows her a gravestone with the word \"Angel\" carved upon it. Heaven learns that the reason for her father's animosity is that her birth caused the death of her real mother, Luke's first wife, whose real name was Leigh VanVoreen, but everybody in the Willies called her 'Angel'.\n\nAnny then presents Heaven with her mother's valuable heirloom suitcase, which contains her mother's rich clothes, the like of which Heaven has never seen, and what soon becomes Heaven's most prized possession, a portrait doll that was modeled after her mother. The doll's face is a mirror of Heaven's, except that the doll has silvery blond hair.\n\nHeaven flourishes into a gifted student, and she and Tom treasure books and excel in English. Fanny, however, is more interested in boys than books, and acts up with Heaven, constantly reveling in their father's attention. But it is when Heaven meets and captures the heart of Logan Stonewall that Fanny really begins to cause trouble. She always wants what Heaven has, and this becomes a reoccurring theme in their relationship. Logan and Heaven become childhood sweethearts and pledge their hearts and lives to each other. However, Logan is the son of the local pharmacist, and his wealthy mother scorns Heaven as an ignorant hillbilly.\n\nAfter the premature death of Sarah and Luke's fifth child, Heaven's grandmother passes away, causing her grandfather to become senile. Sarah falls into a deep post-natal depression and then disappears, leaving a cryptic note that seems to indicate suicide. The children are left to fend for themselves when their father abandons them as well. Heaven becomes a surrogate mother, skipping school in order to take care of her brothers and sisters, insisting that they attend school even if she cannot. When Luke returns, he brings the devastating news that he is ill with syphilis and that he plans to sell his children for $500 a piece on Christmas Day in order to fund his treatment. Heaven watches heartbroken as her family is split up and sold off. Keith and Our Jane are sold to a wealthy-looking couple, which gives Heaven some comfort as Jane is very attached to Keith. Fanny is sold to the town pastor, Reverend Wise. Tom is sold to farmer, Buck Henry.\n\nHeaven is sold to Kitty and Cal Dennison, who live in Candlewick, a sub division in Atlanta. Separated from her siblings and her beloved Logan, Heaven soon realizes that she has been bought as a slave for Kitty, who detested Heaven's mother for marrying Luke, as she was in love with him. After aborting his baby, she discovered she was unable to have any more children and therefore bought Heaven as some sort of twisted revenge against her father. Kitty abuses Heaven physically and emotionally, even scalding her in a burning hot bath to \"cleanse\" her of her hillbilly dirt, and burns the beloved portrait doll of her mother. Despite all this, Heaven finds some comfort in her relationship with Cal.\n\nCal lavishes attention on Heaven, buying her clothes, and treating her to all she has been denied in her deprived upbringing, such as films and fine restaurants. Vulnerable and longing for a father figure, Heaven laps up this attention, and is unable to defend herself when Cal's attentions become sexual. When Kitty becomes seriously ill, he seduces Heaven. She is shamed and devastated, blaming herself for what happened, unable to understand why he did this. When Cal announces that they are returning to Winnerow so a dying Kitty can see her parents, she seizes the opportunity to see Logan. However, when she confesses what happened, he runs from her leaving her alone in the world. Heaven is temporarily reunited with Tom, Fanny, and her Grandpa, but, still bitter and hateful, she avoids her father. Upon Kitty's death, Cal abandons her, and she boards a plane for Boston to find her maternal grandparents.\n\nUpon arriving in Boston, Heaven meets Jillian Tatterton, her wealthy grandmother, and her second husband who is 20 years her junior, Tony Tatterton. Tony was Leigh's stepfather, and Heaven is grieved to learn that her real grandfather died several years earlier. The couple take Heaven to Tony's ancestral home, Farthingale Manor, the enormous estate that her mother ran from. Heaven is shocked and deeply hurt to learn however, that her grandparents only expect her for a short visit. Heaven feeds them lies about her mother, including that she didn't give birth to Heaven straight away, but that her parents were married for a year before her birth.\n\nHeaven is well accommodated, and resides in the suites that were her mother's. Heaven begins to delve into her mother's past, and comes face to face with a piece of her past when she meets Troy Tatterton, Tony's younger brother who lives in the cottage behind the English maze when Heaven becomes lost in the maze. Heaven is immediately attracted to the handsome and talented Troy, yet is at first reluctant to let Heaven into his life, yet she pressures him into letting down his wall of hostility despite Tony ordering her to stay away from him.\n\nHeaven learns that he was three and her mother was twelve when they first met, and Leigh was like an older sister to him. Troy and Heaven eventually become lovers, and Heaven forgets Logan as she discovers her passion and love for Troy are stronger than what she had felt for Logan. Troy soon reveals to her however, that he has premonitions, and dreams that reveal to him that he will not live much longer, and he has no reason to doubt them since all his past dreams have come true, including his dream of Leigh's death.\n\nDeeply disturbed but unwilling to lose him, Heaven persuades him to marry her. The two are happy for a brief time, until Troy's detective agency locates Keith and Our Jane. Heaven rushes to 'save them' when Troy becomes ill and wishes her to go on and find them, only to discover once she is there that they no longer need her and that they love their adoptive parents when they deny knowing her. \n\nDevastated, she goes to Fanny, who spitefully convinces her to go to Winnerow to get back her baby Darcy that she sold to the Reverend Wayland Wise who adopted her and raped her. Heaven reluctantly agrees, but discovers it is a mistake and impossible once she is there. Once in Winnerow, Heaven runs into Cal, who again bombards her with his needs and wants, and tries to force himself on her. Heaven however, disillusions him and pushes him put of her life forever.\n\nDecided on going to find her grandfather in their old cabin, Heaven gets caught in a storm between Winnerow and the Willies, only to be discovered by Logan who finds Heaven's car broken down on the highway, and takes her to the cabin. Heaven however, returns only to discover the money she has been sending her grandfather had been put towards restoring the cabin and it is now an adequate home.\n\nAs the storm becomes more violent, Heaven comes down with the same illness as Troy. Stuck with no one but Logan to look after her, Heaven submits to his efforts to help her. She dreams of Troy, and in her desperation to get back to him she shouts at Logan to let her contact him. Logan grows jealous and angry, confessing he still loves her and wants her back.\n\nWhen the storm clears and Heaven recovers, she returns to Troy, only to be encountered by Tony who confesses he was pleased by her upcoming marriage to Troy, but that now he cannot let it go ahead. A devastated Heaven forces the truth from him, and he reveals that the reason her mother fled from Farthingale Manor was that he fell in love with her and raped her, and that he discovered from Troy that Heaven was really a year older than she first pretended, and thereby, he is her father.\n\nHeartbroken that Troy is her uncle and she cannot marry him, Heaven goes to confess the truth to him, but upon seeing him, she cannot do it. Yet Jillian had revealed the truth to him, having known it all along, and in order to protect Heaven, Troy leaves his home leaving her a letter insisting that she go to Jillian and hear the whole truth.\n\nHeaven goes to Jillian's suite, and in revealing and finally accepting the truth, Jillian falls into insanity. Heaven leaves Farthingale Manor to escape the memories of all she has lost, yet upon her return she learns that Troy's prophecy has indeed come true. He killed himself as he was unable to live without her.\n\nDevastated, Heaven once again flees to Winnerow, this time to confront her father who has again married and has another son, Drake. Her beloved brother Tom is living with him, and both work at the circus. Heaven is appalled at Tom's willingness to give up his dreams in order to help their father attain his, and as revenge for all he has done she dyes her hair blond, the same shade as her mothers, puts on one of her mothers old dresses, and approaches her father when he is lion taming at the circus.\n\nLuke believes his Angel has come back to him, and when he drops his gun, the lion mauls and kills Tom. Blaming herself, she returns to the cabin to become a teacher at the Winnerow school, to pass on her love of books to those in the same position she was. She acknowledges that she will eventually become Logan's wife, as the waters have stilled between them.\n\nProud and beautiful, Heaven comes back to the hills - to rise at last above her family's shame!\n\nAs Logan's bride, she would savor now the love she had sought for so long. And free from her father's clutches, she would live again in her backwoods town, a respected teacher and cherished wife.\n\nBut after a wedding trip to Boston's Farthinghale Manor and a lavish, elegant party, Heaven and Logan are persuaded to stay... lured by Tony Tatterton's guile to live amidst the Tatterton wealth and privilege.\n\nThen the ghosts of Heaven's past rise up once more, writhing around her fragile happiness and threatening her precious love with scandal and jealousy, sinister passions and dangerous dreams!\n"}
{"id": "43151372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43151372", "title": "If You Build It", "text": "If You Build It\n\nIf You Build It is a 2013 documentary directed by Patrick Creadon, produced by Neal Baer, and filmed on location largely in the town of Windsor and surrounding Bertie County, North Carolina, the state's poorest county.\n\nThe documentary follows a year in the life of an innovative, design-based high school program, culminating with the design and sixteen-week construction of a farmer's market pavilion, the only farmers market pavilion in the U.S. designed and built by high school students.\n\nThe film's title is a truncated reference to the catchphrase \"if you build it, he will come,\" from the 1989 film, \"Field of Dreams\".\n\nIn 2010, Superintendent of Public Schools for Bertie County, Chip Zullinger (1951-2014) had been hired to address the school district's serious shortcomings. After completing four large architectural projects with designer Emily Pilloton (author of the 2009 book \"Design Revolution\") and architect Matt Miller, Zullinger invited the two to create a high school curriculum.\n\nPilloton and Miller described the curriculum, ultimately named Studio H, as shop class for the 21st century, where the design process could address the community's problems and its own sense of possibility. Named after its focus on \"humanity, habitats, health and happiness,\" the curriculum \"empowered young people to become creative problem solvers and at the same time encourage them to become more active citizens.\" Variety quoted Pilloton, saying the project's purpose was to \"plant small seeds in our students that years from now could result in a new kind of resource.\"\n\nPilloton and partner Miller, worked with 10 (initially 13) high school students at Bertie Early College High School through the year-long, full-scale design/build curriculum — following six design rules: there is no design without critical action; we work 'with' not 'for;' we start locally and scale globally; create systems, not stuff; document, share and measure; and finally build. The students began the school year with constructing water purifiers from clay and cow pies. After designing, constructing and selling corn hole boards, the students follow with full-scale chicken coops of their own design and culminate the year with the design and construction of an open-air farmer's market, which subsequently became known as the \"Windsor Super Market\" (depicted on the movie poster above, right).\n\nThe project team and the community had identified a new farmer's market as a viable and desirable community project, and under the leadership of Pilloton and Miller the students focused on developing design and construction skills: critical thinking, research (e.g., analyzing Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion House), sketching, and drafting, along with welding and real-world construction trades. Pilloton and Miller in turn completed construction documents and specifications, worked with a structural engineer and filed for construction permits — while also preparing and conducting three hours of daily classroom instruction.\n\nThe film backtracks to tell the story of Matt Miller and his thesis project from the Cranbrook Academy, where he designed and constructed along with classmate Thomas Gardner a 900 sf, two-story infill house. The house was ultimately abandoned, leading Miller to conclude the project failed because the end-user was insufficiently engaged and invested in process.\n\nTogether the Project H team identified student Stevie Mizelle's preliminary concept model to develop further, subsequently completing construction of the farmer's market to approximately 75% before the school year ended. The design features a large wood platform for vendor booths with vertical wood trusses supporting a rectilinear roofed canopy with wood slats designed to filter and control solar glare; a main floor at the same height above grade as a pickup truck bed, allowing vendors to back up to the \"loading dock\" at each vendor stall and walk their goods directly off their truck into their booth; and a long ramp at the front to allow pedestrian accessibility and to provide a symbolic front porch for visitors.\n\nEarly in the school year, Pilloton and Miller chose to continue with the project after Zullinger, their prime backer, was dismissed by the school board, and the board became unwilling to underwrite the curriculum and withdrew their offered salaries. Pilloton and Miller continued to work with the students and subsequently completed construction of the farmer's market after the school year ended. The Windsor Super Market opened in October 2011.\n\nStudents featured in \"Studio H\" were Erick Bowen, Rodecoe Dunlow, Kerron Hayes, Anthony Johnson, Stevie Mizelle, Cameron Perry, Cj Robertson, Jamesha Thompson, Colin White and Alexia Williams. The film also features County Commissioner Ron Wesson as well as volunteer Eric Wandmacher (friend of Pilloton and Miller) and Superintendent of Public Schools, Chip Zullinger.\n\nPrior to one-year Studio H curriculum in Bertie County, Pilloton and Miller had completed four architectural projects with the school board, as backed by Superintendent Zullinger: four playgrounds, three computer labs, a weight room for the football team, and a county-wide graphic campaign. Friction on the school board developed with another Zullinger-backed project, \"Connect Bertie,\" a project to bring free county-wide internet connectivity by paying an outside entity, Century Link, to provide the internet services at a cost of $2 million annually. The tension culminated with Zullwinger's dismissal, followed a reversal of the dismissal and then acceptance of his resignation. Without his support and the offered salaries, Zullwinger's departure directly threatened the Studio H project.\n\nOther tensions arose, and in a 2013 interview, Pilloton identified a racially and politically charged context that surrounded the curriculum and the project — describing Bertie County as a place where \"hundreds of years of slavery and institutionalized racism is very much still alive and kicking.\" On release of the film, Pilloton and Miller said \"they said they still believe it was fear of change – not lack of money in a budget that topped $30 million – that ultimately led to the board's decision.\"\n\nPilloton had grown up near Mt. Tamalpais, California, attributing the German toy \"Quadro\" with inspiring her interest in design. She later studied at the College of Environmental Design, UC Berkeley and the Art Institute of Chicago, during a period when there was no curriculum but when there was a 100,000 sf shop class.\n\nMatt Miller was born in West Virginia and has architecture degrees from the University of Tennessee and Cranbrook Academy of Art. He has taught architecture and design at the Rhode Island School of Design, the College of Creative Studies, and UC Berkeley — and worked with Architecture for Humanity. Miller was the first student at the Cranbrook Academy to design and also build his thesis project (along with classmate Thomas Gardner): a 900 sf, two-story block infill house at 2126 Pierce Street in Poletown, Detroit. The house, ultimately abandoned, had a construction budget of $60,000 and used all-volunteer labor along with carefully selected materials (e.g., concrete block and rubber membrane roofing) to keep costs down.\n\nAs of mid-2014, the film had received a rating on Rotten Tomatoes of 81% favorable critic response and 100% favorable audience response.\n\n\"Architectural Record\" called the film \"A document of America at its most vulnerable.\" \"The New York Times\" reviewer Nicolas Rapold said \"the movie's biggest weakness comes with its tendency to film people telling us what's going on rather than having us observe.\"\n\nPilloton and Miller, who had been a couple, split up some time after the period depicted in the documentary. Matthew Miller is now the lead design/build instructor at (co)studio, a public high school program in Carbondale, Colorado. Pilloton continues to direct Studio H, which is now in its fourth year, at the at REALM Charter School in Berkeley, California.\n\nStudio H has grown to include more than 200 students, a staff of seven (paid) and 24 built projects around the country (as of mid 2014). In Bertie County as of 2012, the Studio H program had completed 15 architectural and design projects, worked with 26 students and (in addition to the farmer's market pavilion) constructed two roadside farmstands for important county intersections, and organized a town-managed association for local farmers. Students have worked on these projects for high school and college credits as well as stipends.\n\nAt a point early in the film, student Stevie Mizelle — whose preliminary design for the farmer's market was ultimately selected by the team for design development — joked: \"school, I hate it, my dad hated it, my granddaddy hated it. I'm carrying on a tradition.\" He currently studies animal behavior at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, NC, making Dean's List his freshman year. He was the first male relative in his immediate family to graduate from high school, attributing his graduation to his work with Studio H.\nChip Zullinger died suddenly in April 2014. Zullinger, widely described as ahead of his time, told Patrick Creadon, director of \"If you Build it,\" he had been fired at least eight times and wore that as a badge of honor. Creadon described Zullinger as a \"renegade school superintendent, a great thinker and a steamroller when it came to getting kids the education they deserve.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23139064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23139064", "title": "Ilocandia", "text": "Ilocandia\n\nIlocandia is the term given to the traditional homeland of the Ilocano people.\n\nFrom the original western strip of Northern Luzon (now known as the Region 1 or Ilocos Region), Ilocandia has spread throughout the Cagayan Valley, Cordillera Administrative Region, and northern Central Luzon.\n\nAlthough there are also a large number of Ilocanos in other parts of the Philippines like, Palawan and Mindanao, these are not considered to be a part of Ilocandia, as they are not part of the traditional Ilocano homeland.\n\nToday, the first three regions of the Philippines (Region 1 or Ilocos Region, Region 2 or Cagayan Valley and Region 3 or Central Luzon) comprise the present-day Ilocandia. Although most of the residents of the Cordillera Administrative Region belong to another ethnic group (the Igorots), the predominance of the usage of Ilocano makes it also a part of the Ilocandia.\n\nThe northern portion of Ilocos Region (Ilocos Norte and Ilocos Sur) is the original Ilocano homeland. Originally composed of a single province known as Ilocos Province, it used to cover the western part of Northern Luzon. Today, the Ilocos Region includes four provinces, Pangasinan being the home of more than half of the region's population.\n\nIt is mistaken to assume that residents of Pangasinan are Ilocano speakers considering that according to the 2000 census, only 44% of Pangasinan population speak Ilocano. Pangasinan cannot even be considered as the original homeland of the Ilocano people since Ilocanos in Pangasinan are either migrants or descendants of migrants from the northern portion of Region 1 (Ilocos Norte and Ilocos Sur).\n\nThe northern portion of the country is known as the Nuclear Ilocandia since only 66% of Region 1 population are Ilocanos according to 2000 census. A substantial number of Region 1 population are Pangasinan, whose population accounts for 27% of the region's population. Other peoples also live in Region 1 such as the Bago, Agta and Ibaloi.\n\nWhen the arid lands of the Ilocos Region could no longer support the growing number of Ilocanos, they tried the less chartered Cagayan Valley, which they later on find more suitable to their agricultural way of life. Although not originally a part of the Ilocandia, the Ilocanos have conquered the area, thus making it a part of the Greater Ilocandia.\n\n\nThough a predominantly Kapampangan-speaking, Pangasinan-speaking, and Tagalog-speaking region, Central Luzon acts as fringe-area of Ilocandia. No province in the region is a predominantly Ilocano-speaking area, but some northern municipalities use it as a \"lingua franca\", especially in northernmost Tarlac, Zambales, Aurora, and Nueva Ecija, with the southern parts around Bulacan, Pampanga, and Bataan leaning more towards Tagalog and Kapampangan.\n\nThe table below shows only the provinces that have a significant number of Ilocano speakers:\n\nThe list below shows the cities of Region 3 where Ilocano is spoken.\n\nTechnically, the peoples of the Cordillera Administrative Region belong to another ethno-linguistic group collectively known as the Igorots. Hence, they are not a part of the Original Ilocandia nor the Greater Ilocandia. However, because of the presence of the different ethno-linguistic groups, Ilocano has become the medium of communication between these different tribes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2270385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2270385", "title": "Index of aesthetics articles", "text": "Index of aesthetics articles\n\nThis is an alphabetical index of articles about aesthetics.\n\n- \"A Mathematician's Apology\"\n- \"A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful\"\n- Abhinavagupta\n- Abstract art\n- Abstract Illusionism\n- Academic art\n- Acquired taste\n- Action painting\n- Aesthetic atrophy\n- Aesthetic canon\n- Aesthetic emotions\n- Aesthetic interpretation\n- Aesthetic Realism\n- Aesthetic relativism\n- Aestheticism\n- Aestheticization of politics\n- Aestheticization of violence\n- Aesthetics\n- Aesthetics of music\n- Affect (philosophy)\n- Albert Hofstadter\n- Aleksei Losev\n- Alexander Gerard\n- Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten\n- Alexander Nehamas\n- Algernon Charles Swinburne\n- Ambonoclast\n- American Craftsman\n- American Empire (style)\n- American realism\n- American Society for Aesthetics\n- Anandavardhana\n- André Malraux\n- Anglo-Japanese style\n- Anti-art\n- Anti-Neoism\n- Antwerp Mannerism\n- Antwerp school\n- Applied aesthetics\n- Architectural design values\n- Aristotle\n- Art\n- Art and morality\n- Art as Experience\n- Art criticism\n- Art Deco\n- Art Deco in Durban\n- Art for art's sake\n- Art forgery\n- Art manifesto\n- Art movement\n- Art of murder\n- Art periods\n- Artcore\n- Arte Povera\n- Arthur Danto\n- Arthur Schopenhauer\n- Arthur Schopenhauer's aesthetics\n- Artist\n- Artistic inspiration\n- Artistic merit\n- Artistic revolution\n- Arts and Crafts Movement\n- Arts criticism\n- Ashcan School\n- Attractiveness\n- August Wilhelm Schlegel\n- Authenticity (philosophy)\n- Auto-destructive art\n- Avant-garde\n- Avant-Garde and Kitsch\n- Axiology\n\n- Barbizon school\n- Bauhaus\n- Bay Area Figurative Movement\n- Beauty\n- Béla Balázs\n- Benedetto Croce\n- Bernhard Alexander\n- Beuron Art School\n- Black Artists Group\n- Black Arts Movement\n- Boredom\n- Brandywine School\n- Brian Keeble\n- British Society of Aesthetics\n- Bruce Lee\n\n- Calvin Seerveld\n- Camp (style)\n- Capitalist realism\n- Carl Dahlhaus\n- Catharsis\n- Cellar door\n- Characterism\n- Chinoiserie\n- Christopher Janaway\n- Circulism\n- Classical Realism\n- Classicism\n- Classificatory disputes about art\n- Clive Bell\n- Color Field\n- Color-field Splash\n- Comedy\n- Communication aesthetics\n- Community arts\n- Conceptual art\n- Conceptualism\n- Concrete art\n- Constructivism (art)\n- Contemporary Baroque Art\n- Contextualism\n- Cool (aesthetic)\n- Creativity\n- \"Critique of Judgment\"\n- Cubism\n- Cultural sensibility\n- Culture of Asia\n- Cuteness\n- Cynical realism\n- Czech Cubism\n\n- Dada\n- Danube school\n- Dark romanticism\n- Dau al Set\n- David Hume\n- David Prall\n- De Stijl\n- Death of the Author\n- Decadence\n- Decadent movement\n- Decadentism\n- Defastenism\n- Depiction\n- Déprimisme\n- Dewitt H. Parker\n- Didacticism\n- Directoire style\n- Disgust\n- Distancing effect\n- Donkey's Tail\n- Dragestil\n\n- Eastern Group of Painters\n- Ecstasy (emotion)\n- Ecstasy (philosophy)\n- Edmund Burke\n- Edmund Gurney\n- Eduard Hanslick\n- Edward Bullough\n- Either/Or\n- Elegance\n- Eli Siegel\n- Empire style\n- Emptyism\n- \"Encyclopedia of Aesthetics\"\n- English and Welsh\n- Entertainment\n- Erotic art\n- Eroticism\n- Escapism\n- Esoteric Order of Art\n- Essentialism\n- Essentially contested concept\n- Exoticism\n- Expressionism\n- Eyesore\n\n- Facial symmetry\n- Fact-value distinction\n- Fauvism\n- Feminist art movement\n- Feminist art movement in the United States\n- Feminist literary criticism\n- Feng shui\n- Ferdinand Gotthelf Hand\n- Ferruccio Busoni\n- Fiction\n- Figuration Libre\n- Fine art\n- Florentine School\n- Fluxus\n- Flying Star Feng Shui\n- Forgery\n- Form follows function\n- Formalesque\n- Formalism (art)\n- Formalism (philosophy)\n- Found object\n- \"Four Dissertations\"\n- Francesco de Sanctis\n- Francis Ernest Jackson\n- Francis Hutcheson (philosopher)\n- François Hemsterhuis\n- Frank Sibley (philosopher)\n- Friedrich Nietzsche\n- Friedrich Schiller\n- Functional formism\n- Funk art\n- Futurism\n\n- Geometric abstraction\n- Georg Anton Friedrich Ast\n- Georg Brandes\n- Georg Friedrich Meier\n- Georg Mehlis\n- Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel\n- George Dickie (philosopher)\n- George Lansing Raymond\n- George Santayana\n- Georges Bataille\n- Gjernes\n- Gothic fiction\n- Gotthold Ephraim Lessing\n- Greek Revival architecture\n- Gregory Currie\n- Grotesque body\n- Guild of Romanists\n- Gutai group\n- Guy Sircello\n\n- Haida manga\n- Hamid Dabashi\n- Hans Pfitzner\n- Harlem Renaissance\n- Harmonices Mundi\n- Harmony\n- Heinrich Gustav Hotho\n- Henri Focillon\n- Hermann Theodor Hettner\n- Heroic realism\n- Hierarchy of genres\n- Hippias Major\n- Histogram equalization\n- Historicism\n- Historicism (art)\n- History of aesthetics (pre-20th-century)\n- Hudson River School\n- Hugh Kenner\n- Human figure (aesthetics)\n- Human physical appearance\n- Humour\n- Huǒ hēi àn\n- Hyojin-ism\n- Hypermodernism (art)\n\n- Iki (aesthetic ideal)\n- Imagination\n- Immanuel Kant\n- Impressionism\n- Incoherents\n- Inconnu Independent Art Group\n- Inherently funny word\n- Institutional Critique\n- Institutional theory of art\n- Intentional fallacy\n- International Association of Empirical Aesthetics\n- International Gothic\n- International Typographic Style\n- Irrealism (philosophy)\n\n- Jack of Diamonds (artists)\n- Jacques Derrida\n- Jacques Maritain\n- James DiGiovanna\n- Jan Mukařovský\n- Japanese aesthetics\n- Japanese sound symbolism\n- Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin\n- Jean-Baptiste Dubos\n- Jean-François Lyotard\n- Jerrold Levinson\n- Jerry Farber\n- Jo-ha-kyū\n- Johann Friedrich Herbart\n- Johann Gottfried Herder\n- John Anderson (philosopher)\n- John Dewey\n- John Hospers\n- John Maeda\n- Jonathan Edwards\n- José María Valverde\n- Joseph Addison\n- Joseph Kosuth\n- Joseph Margolis\n- \"Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism\"\n- Józef Kremer\n- Judgement\n- Junge Wilde\n\n- Karl Wilhelm Ferdinand Solger\n- Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel\n- Kendall Walton\n- Kinetic art\n- Kokoro\n- Kung Fu (TV series)\n- Kunstreligion\n\n- Lalita Pandit\n- Late modernism\n- \"Lectures on Aesthetics\"\n- Leo Tolstoy\n- Leonid Stolovich\n- Les Automatistes\n- Les Nabis\n- Lettrism\n- Life imitating art\n- Line of Beauty\n- List of aestheticians\n- List of art movements\n- List of culturally linked qualities of music\n- List of French artistic movements\n- List of Stuckist artists\n- Literary criticism\n- Littoral art\n- Liu Xie\n- Live-art\n- Longinus (literature)\n- Lookism\n- Luminism (American art style)\n- Lyrical Abstraction\n\n- Madeleine Doran\n- Magnificence (History of ideas)\n- Makapansgat pebble\n- Mani Kaul\n- Margaret Magnus\n- Martin Foss\n- Martin Heidegger\n- Marxist aesthetics\n- Masakazu Nakai\n- Masterpiece\n- Mathematical beauty\n- Maurice Blanchot\n- Max Black\n- Maximalism\n- Mazen Asfour\n- Mediology\n- Metaphor\n- Metaphor in philosophy\n- Metaphysical art\n- Metarealism\n- Michael Sprinker\n- Mikhail Bakhtin\n- Milan Damnjanović (philosopher)\n- Mimesis\n- Mingei\n- Minimalism\n- Miyabi\n- Modern expressionism\n- Modernism\n- Modular constructivism\n- Monroe Beardsley\n- Morris Weitz\n- Moscow Conceptualists\n- Music\n- Musica universalis\n- Musicology\n- Musivisual Language\n\n- Nation\n- Natural Design\n- Naturalism (arts)\n- Nelson Goodman\n- Neo-conceptual art\n- Neo-Dada\n- Neo-expressionism\n- Neo-figurative\n- Neo-Futurists\n- Neo-Gothic art movement\n- Neo-pop\n- Neo-primitivism\n- Neo-romanticism\n- Neo-Victorian\n- Neoclassicism\n- Neomodern\n- Neonouveau\n- Neosurrealism\n- Nespelem (art)\n- Neuroesthetics\n- New folk media\n- New Objectivity\n- New Romanticism\n- New Urbanism\n- New York School\n- Nihonga\n- Nimism\n- Noël Carroll\n- Northwest School (art)\n- Norwich School (art movement)\n- \"Notes on \"Camp\"\"\n- Novalis\n- Novgorod School\n- Novísimos\n- Nsumi\n\n- Objectivism (Ayn Rand)\n- \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\"\n- \"On the Genealogy of Morality\"\n- Op art\n- Orientalism\n- Ornament (architecture)\n- Orphism (art)\n- Oscar Wilde\n- Outline of aesthetics\n\n- Painters Eleven\n- Panic Movement\n- Papunya Tula\n- Paradigm\n- Paragone\n- Passionism\n- Patrick Hebron\n- Paul de Man\n- Paul Häberlin\n- Paul Souriau\n- Pennsylvania Impressionism\n- Perception\n- Performing arts\n- Peter Lunenfeld\n- Philhellenism\n- Philistinism\n- \"Philosophy and Literature\" (journal)\n- Philosophy and literature\n- \"Philosophy in a New Key\"\n- Philosophy of design\n- Philosophy of film\n- Philosophy of music\n- Phonaesthetics\n- Phonestheme\n- Photogenic\n- Photorealism\n- Physical attractiveness\n- Plasticien\n- Poetics\n- Poetics (Aristotle)\n- Poetry\n- Pop art\n- Pornography\n- Poshlost\n- Poshlost\n- Post-Futurism\n- Post-Impressionism\n- Post-painterly Abstraction\n- Post-postmodernism\n- Post-romanticism\n- Postminimalism\n- Postmodern art\n- Postmodern music\n- Postmodernism\n- \"Postmodernism, or, the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism\"\n- Poussinist\n- Precisionism\n- Primitivism\n- Principles of art\n- Process art\n- Proletkult\n- Psychical distance\n- Psychology of art\n- Ptolemy\n- Punk visual art\n- Puppetista\n- Purism\n\n- Quality (philosophy)\n\n- R. G. Collingwood\n- Rachida Triki\n- Rasa (aesthetics)\n- Rasquache\n- Real live artist\n- Realism (arts)\n- Regionalism (art)\n- Reinformation\n- Relational Art\n- René Huyghe\n- Representation (arts)\n- Retroarchaeology\n- \"Rhetoric (Aristotle)\"\n- Rhyme\n- Richard Meltzer\n- Richard Shusterman\n- Richard Wollheim\n- Roger de Piles\n- Roger North (17th century)\n- Roger Scruton\n- Roland Barthes\n- Roman Ingarden\n- Romanticism\n- Ronald Paulson\n- Rotation method\n- Rudolf Arnheim\n\n- Salon \"Comparaisons\"\n- Sandhi\n- Secession (art)\n- Seiz Breur\n- Self-declared art movement\n- Semiotics\n- Semiotics of Ideal Beauty\n- Sentimental poetry\n- Sentimentalism (literature)\n- Sexual attraction\n- Sexual selection\n- Sexual selection in human evolution\n- Shibui\n- Shin hanga\n- Sienese School\n- Sikh art and culture\n- Social realism\n- Socialist realism\n- Sociological art\n- Sociology of art\n- Sophistication\n- Søren Kierkegaard\n- Sōsaku hanga\n- Sound poetry\n- Sound symbolism\n- Soviet Nonconformist Art\n- Space art\n- Spanish Eclecticism\n- Stanley Cavell\n- Stephen Pepper\n- Stephen R. Marquardt\n- Steven Poole\n- Street poster art\n- Stroganov School\n- Stuckism\n- Stuckist demonstrations\n- Stupid (art movement)\n- Style (visual arts)\n- Sublime (philosophy)\n- Superfiction\n- Superflat\n- Supervenience\n- Suprematism\n- Susanne Langer\n- Symbolism (arts)\n- \"Symposium (Plato)\"\n- Synchromism\n\n- Tachisme\n- Tansu\n- Taruho Inagaki\n- Tasos Zembylas\n- Taste (sociology)\n- Teaism\n- \"The Aesthetic Dimension\"\n- \"The Analysis of Beauty\"\n- \"The Art Movements\"\n- \"The arts and politics\"\n- \"The Literary Mind and the Carving of Dragons\"\n- \"The medium is the message\"\n- \"The Origin of the Work of Art\"\n- \"The Romantic Manifesto\"\n- \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\"\n- Theodor Lipps\n- Theodor Mundt\n- Theodor W. Adorno\n- Theological aesthetics\n- Theories of humor\n- Thomas Munro\n- Thomas Reid\n- Tomonubu Imamichi\n- Totalism\n- Tudor Vianu\n\n- Umberto Eco\n- Utamakura\n\n- Verism\n- Vernon Lee\n- Victor Cousin\n- Vienna School of Fantastic Realism\n- Virgil Aldrich\n- Vissarion Belinsky\n- Visual literacy\n- Visual rhetoric\n- Volcano School\n- Vorticism\n- Vulgarity\n- Vaporwave\n\n- Wabi-sabi\n- Walter Benjamin\n- Walter Pater\n- Warren Shibles\n- Washington Color School\n- Western painting\n- \"What Is Art?\"\n- Wiener Moderne\n- William Kurtz Wimsatt, Jr.\n- Władysław Tatarkiewicz\n- Wolfgang Fritz Haug\n- Woodlands Style\n- Work of art\n\n- Xiaozi\n\n- Yabo\n- Yiannis Psychopedis\n- Yōga (art)\n- Yusuf Balasaghuni\n\n- Zaum\n- Zeami Motokiyo\n- Zhe school (painting)\n- Zoltan Deme\n\n"}
{"id": "34955132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34955132", "title": "Infopoverty", "text": "Infopoverty\n\nInfopoverty is the name given to the Programme and the World Conference started in 2001, in the ambit of the United Nations, aimed to fight poverty towards the application of ICT, Information and Communication Technologies.\nThe term has been coined in 1998 by Arch. Pierpaolo Saporito, Founder and President of OCCAM - Observatory on Digital Communication and Gerardo Zepeda-Bermudez, Vice-President and Member of the Board.\n\nThe Infopoverty World Conference is the annual international conference, under the auspices of the United Nations, at the United Nations headquarters, New York, organized by OCCAM, together with the European Parliament, UNESCO, and other scientific and university institutions (Infopoverty Institute at Oklahoma University). At its 13th edition, the Infopoverty World Conference saw the participation of more than 100 international organizations,hundreds of from Governments, international and regional organizations, public and private institutions and the civil society and 63 countries.\n\nThe Infopoverty Programme transfers into concrete actions the orientations emerged from the Conference, realizing the ICT Villages, aimed to help the most disadvantaged communities.The first pilot projects were realized at San Ramon and San Pedro, Honduras, in cooperation with the local Ministry of Science and Technologies, following the devastation from Hurricane Mitch.\nThese experiences were instrumental for the definition, thanks to the collaboration with the most important international institutions, of the ICT Village model, validated by the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis, 2005, with the creation of the Borj Touil Village.\nSubsequently, the model was developed in Sambaina (Madagascar) which was proclaimed Millennium Village Project by the United Nations, and are in progress in Leshoto, in Peru and Ethiopia.\n\n"}
{"id": "47827949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47827949", "title": "Internet geography", "text": "Internet geography\n\nInternet geography, also called cybergeography, is a subdiscipline of geography that studies the spatial organization of the Internet, from social, economic, cultural, and technological perspectives. The core assumption of Internet geography is that the location of servers, websites, data, services, and infrastructure is key to understand the development and the dynamics of the Internet. Among the topics covered by this discipline, of particular importance are information geography and digital divides.\n\n"}
{"id": "37939131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37939131", "title": "Kamrup region", "text": "Kamrup region\n\nKamrup or Kamarupa is the modern region situated between two rivers Manas and Barnadi in Western Assam, congruent to ancient \"Kamapitha\", \"Kamarupa Mandala\" of Pragjyotisha Bhukti, medieval \"Sarkar Kamrup\" and modern \"Undivided Kamrup district\", though historian Dinesh Chandra Sircar suspects Kamapitha division as fabrications from late medieval times.\n\nPre-colonial Kamrup was a large territory consisting of Western Assam and North Bengal, which keep reducing in size in subsequent periods. In the nineteenth century eastern Kamrup became part of Colonial Assam while parts of western Kamrup merged with Bengal. Ancient cities Pragjyotishpura and Durjaya were located in modern Kamrup. Kamrup is considered as a politically, socially and culturally separate unit, and cultural artefacts from this region are called Kamrupi.\n\nThe origin of name attributed to a legend in epic, the Kalika Purana mentioned that country got its name from cupid Kamadeva (Kama), who regain his form (Rupa) back from ashes here.\n\nThe first historical mention of Kamarupa comes from Samudragupta's 4th-century Allahabad prasasti, where it is mentioned along with Davaka and Samatata as frontier kingdoms of the Gupta empire. Davaka, currently in Nagaon district (central Assam), is not mentioned in historical texts again, which indicates that the kings of Kamarupa must have absorbed it. Though the kingdom came to be known as Kamarupa, the kings called themselves the rulers of Pragjyotisha (\"Pragjyotishadhipati\"), and not Kamarupa; nevertheless Kamarupa continued to be mentioned in inscriptions, such as Nidhanpur inscription of Bhaskar Varman. Vaidydeva, an 11th-century ruler, named Kamarupa as a \"mandala\" within the Pragjyotisha \"bhukti\". According to Sircar, the Kamarupa mandala is congruent to undivided Kamrup of the modern times.\n\nAlthough the epigraphic records define Kamarupa as a smaller region within the historic kingdom, the 9th–10th-century shakta work Kalika Purana names the kingdom Kamarupa. Yogini Tantra provides the traditional boundary: Karatoya river in the west, Dikkaravasini (Sadiya) in the east and the Brahmaputra-Lakhya river confluence in the south forming a triangle. Both the western boundary as well as the name agrees with the 7th-century account left by Chinese traveller Hiuen Tsang who visited the region in seventh century c.e, identified the kingdom as Kamarupa (Ka-mo-lu-po) which was located to the east of the Karatoya (Ka-lo-tu). Though the ancient kingdom covered initially present undivided Kamrup region, Western Assam but later expanded to include rest of the Brahmaputra valley, North Bengal as well as most of the northern parts of Bangladesh, Bhutan and at some point parts of Bengal and Bihar, starting with acquisition of Davaka (Central Assam) in east. The medieval and pre-modern usage of \"Kamrup\" was limited to North Bengal and western Assam. \n\nThe Kamarupa region soon lost a unified political rule. Sandhya, a 13th-century ruler in the Kamarupanagara (North Guwahati), moved his capital to present-day North Bengal and his kingdom came to be called Kamata; or sometimes as Kamata-Kamrup, with its eastern boundary at the Manas river. This kingdom was a part of the original Kamarupa kingdom and included in general Koch Bihar, Darrang, Kamrup districts, and northern Mymensing. In the extreme east of the erstwhile Kamarupa kingdom the Chutiya, Kachari and the Ahom kingdoms emerged, with the Baro-Bhuyans providing the buffer between these kingdoms in the east and the Kamata kingdom in the west.\n\nIn the beginning of the 16th century Viswa Singha filled the vacuum left by the destruction of the Khen dynasty of Kamata and consolidated his rule over the Baro-Bhuyan chieftains ruling over the Kamrup region, and by the time of Naranarayana, the kingdom extended a firm rule between the Karatoya and the Bhareli rivers. Even though the Koch kings called themselves Kamateshwars (lords of Kamata), their kingdom came to be called the Koch kingdom and not as Kamrup.\n\nIn 1581 the Kamata kingdom was bifurcated with Raghudev gaining control over the portion to the east of the Sankosh river up to the Bharali river in the northbank; and east of the Brahmaputra in present-day Bangladesh. Raghudev’s kingdom came to be called Koch Hajo in Muslim chronicles, and Kamrup in Ekasarana documents. As the Mughal gained power in Dhaka, Koch Bihar entered into an alliance with them, and arraigned themselves against Parikshitnarayana, the son of Raghudev, who had come to power in Koch Hajo in the meanwhile. The Mughals pushed eastward, removed Parikshit from power in Koch Hajo/Kamrup by 1615 (up to the Barnadi river), and came into direct military conflict with the Ahom kingdom; and after the first round of battles, they established control over nearly the entire Koch Hajo, right up to Barnadi river.\n\nThe Mughals established four sarkars in the newly acquired land---among which were Dhekeri (between Sankosh and Manas) and Kamrup (between Manas and Barnadi). The Mughals lost Kamrup for ever in 1682.\n\nAfter the Battle of Itakhuli (1682), the Ahom kingdom established control over Sarkar Kamrup, and it became the domain of the Borphukan, based in Guwahati. The region continued to be called Kamrup and its eastern and western boundaries were identical to the later British district. In addition to the Kamrup region, the Borphukan's domain included the additional region to the east up to Kaliabor. The Koch prince that oversaw Darrang, too, reported to the Borphukan. The Ahoms did not impose their administrative system fully over Kamrup, and the resultant \"pargana\"-based system was a mixed Mughal-Ahom system, in contrast to the Paik system in the rest of the kingdom in the east.\n\nThe region became part of Burmese empire between 1821 and 1824.\n\nThe region came under Burmese control in 1822. The British, in control over the region to the west of the Manas river since the transfer of Bengal in 1765, marched into Guwahati on 28 March 1824 at the beginning of the First Anglo-Burmese War and established administrative control by October. The Kamrup district that the British constituted in 1833/1836 was largely congruous to the Mughal Sarkar Kamrup of 1639.\n\nAfter Indian Independence in 1947, the Kamrup district maintained its form. The district was divided, beginning in 1983, and the original district is often called \"Undivided Kamrup district\". The Kamapitha, Sarkar Kamrup of 1639 and the Undivided Kamrup district from the Colonial as well as the Independent periods is today defined as the Kamrup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112546", "title": "Leaderless resistance", "text": "Leaderless resistance\n\nLeaderless resistance, or phantom cell structure, is a social resistance strategy in which small, independent groups (covert cells), or individuals (a solo cell is called a \"Lone Wolf\"), challenge an established institution such as a law, economic system, social order, or government. Leaderless resistance can encompass anything from non-violent protest and civil disobedience to vandalism, terrorism, and other violent activity.\n\nLeaderless cells lack vertical command links and so operate without hierarchical command, but they have a common goal that links them to the social movement from which their ideology was learned.\n\nLeaderless resistance is simple and difficult to stamp out. It has been employed by a wide range of movements, including animal-liberation, radical environmentalist, anti-abortion, military invasion resistance, colonialism resistance, terrorist, and hate groups.\n\nA covert cell may be a lone individual or a small group. The basic characteristic of the structure is that there is no explicit communication between cells that are acting toward shared goals. Members of one cell usually have little or no information about who else is agitating on behalf of their cause.\n\nLeaderless movements may have a symbolic figurehead. This can be a public figure, a multiple-use name, or an inspirational author, who picks generic targets and objectives, but does not actually manage or execute plans. Media, in this case, often create a positive feedback loop: by publishing declarations of a movement’s role model, this instills motivation, ideas, and assumed sympathy in the minds of potential agitators who in turn lend further authority to the figurehead. While this may loosely resemble a vertical command structure, it is notably unidirectional: a titular leader makes pronouncements, and activists may respond, but there is no formal contact between the two levels of organization.\n\nAs a result, leaderless resistance cells are resistant to informants and traitors. As there is neither a center that may be destroyed, nor links between the cells that may be infiltrated, it is more difficult for established authorities to arrest the development of a leaderless resistance movement than it is with movements that adopt more conventional hierarchies.\n\nGiven of leaderless resistance, and the fact that it is often strategically adopted in the face of a power imbalance, it has much in common with guerrilla warfare. The latter strategy, however, usually retains some form of organized, bidirectional leadership and is often more than the individualized actions of leaderless cells. In some cases, a largely leaderless movement may evolve into a coherent insurgency or guerrilla movement, as with the Yugoslav partisans of World War II.\n\nLeaderless resistance often involves resistance by violent means, but it is not limited to them. Non-violent groups can use the same structure to author, print, and distribute samizdat literature, to create self-propagating boycotts against political opponents via the internet, to maintain an alternative electronic currency outside of the reach of taxing governments and transaction-logging banks, and so forth.\n\nThe concept of leaderless resistance was developed by Col. Ulius Louis Amoss, a former U.S. intelligence officer, in the early 1960s. An anti-communist, Amoss saw leaderless resistance as a way to prevent the penetration and destruction of CIA-supported resistance cells in Eastern European countries under Soviet control.\n\nThe concept was revived and popularized in an essay published by the anti-government Ku Klux Klan member Louis Beam in 1983 and again in 1992. Beam advocated leaderless resistance as a technique for white nationalists to continue the struggle against the U.S. government, despite an overwhelming imbalance in power and resources.\n\nBeam argued that conventional hierarchical pyramidal organizations are extremely dangerous for their participants, when employed in a resistance movement against government, because of the ease of disclosing the chain of command. A less dangerous approach would be to convince like-minded individuals to form independent cells without close communication between each other but generally operating in the same direction.\n\nThe first recorded direct action for animal liberation which progressed (after a considerable delay) into a movement of leaderless resistance was by the original \"Band of Mercy\" in 1824 whose goal was to thwart fox hunters. Inspired by this group and after seeing a pregnant deer driven into the village by fox hunters to be killed, John Prestige decided to actively oppose this sport and formed the Hunt Saboteurs Association (HSA) in 1964. Within a year, a leaderless model of hunt-sabotage groups was formed across the country.\n\nA new Band of Mercy was then formed in 1972. It used direct action to liberate animals and cause economic sabotage against those thought to be abusing animals. Ronnie Lee and others changed the name of the movement to the Animal Liberation Front (ALF) in 1976 and adopted a leaderless resistance model focusing broadly on animal liberation.\n\nEarth First! and the environmental movement in the 1980s also adopted the leaderless resistance model. An animal liberation movement advocating violence emerged with the name Animal Rights Militia (ARM) in 1982. Letter bombs were sent to the then British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher. Two years later the name Hunt Retribution Squad (HRS) was also used.\n\nThe Earth Liberation Front (ELF) formed in 1992, breaking from Earth First! when that organization decided to focus on public direct action, instead of the ecotage that the ELF participated in. A violent group called the Justice Department was established in 1993, and in 1994 to hunters such as Prince Charles and to animal researchers.\n\nIn 1999 the leaderless resistance strategy was employed by animal liberation organisations like Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC), which was formed from the Consort beagles campaign and Save the Hill Grove Cats to close down Huntingdon Life Sciences (HLS). Despite claiming successes leaderless animal liberation and environmental movements generally lack the broad popular support that often occurs in strictly political or military conflicts. The Revolutionary Cells--Animal Liberation Brigade (RCALB) appeared in 2003 and sent pipe bombs to Chiron Corporation and used incendiary devices against other targets.\n\nWithin a few years of the victories claimed by the SHAC, other campaigns against animal testing laboratories emerged. At the same time, SPEAK Campaigns and the more radical ALF militants, Oxford Arson Squad began their campaigns towards the same goal: to end Oxford University's animal research.\n\nIn April 2009, the Militant Forces Against Huntingdon Life Sciences (MFAH) became active. With the ALF, they began targeting HLS customer and financial Directors, as well as company property. Since then, groups have reported over a dozen actions in Europe, including painting homes, burning cars, and grave desecration. Militants, however, oppose , instead believing in any necessary action to prevent suffering at HLS's laboratories.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeaderless resistance is also often well-suited to terrorist objectives. The Islamist organization Al-Qaeda uses a typical figurehead/leaderless cell structure. The organization itself may be pyramidal, but sympathizers who act on its pronouncements often do so spontaneously and independently.\n\nGiven the small, clandestine character of terrorist cells, it is easy to assume they necessarily constitute leaderless resistance models. When there is bidirectional communication with external leadership, however, the label is inappropriate. The men who executed the bombings of the London Underground on July 7, 2005 constituted a leaderless resistance cell in that they purportedly acted out of sympathy for Islamic fundamentalism but under their own auspices. The hijackers involved in the September 11 attacks, by contrast, allegedly received training, direction, and funding from Al-Qaeda, and are not properly designated a leaderless cell.\n\nThe concept of leaderless resistance remains important to much far right thinking in the United States, as a proposed response to perceived federal government over-reach at the expense of individual rights. , however, found in his research that for the most part the far right seldom used this tactic. Timothy McVeigh is one example in the United States. McVeigh worked in a small cell which based its attack on motivations widespread among far-right anti-government groups and the militia movement.\n\nLeaderless resistance has been advocated by White Supremacist groups such as White Aryan Resistance and the British neo-Nazi Combat 18. The modern Ku Klux Klan is also credited with having developed a leaderless resistance model. Troy Southgate also advocated forms of leaderless resistance during his time as a leading activist in the National Revolutionary Faction and a pioneer of National-Anarchism.\n\nStormfront, Aryan Nations, and Hammerskin Nation link to Beam's \"Leaderless Resistance\". These groups promote lone wolf actions. Stormfront, while regretting the loss of life, explains how Benjamin Nathaniel Smith's 1998 killing spree was compelled by circumstances. The World Church of the Creator gives a mixed message, calling Smith \"a selfless man who gave his life in the resistance to Jewish/mud tyranny,\" but noting \"the Church does not condone his acts.\"\n\nLeaderless resistance emerged in the environmental movement in 1976 when John Hanna and others as the Environmental Life Force (ELF) (also known now as the \"original ELF\") used explosive and incendiary devices. The group conducted armed actions in northern California and Oregon, later disbanding in 1978 following Hanna's arrest for placing incendiary devices on seven crop-dusters at the Salinas, California airport on May Day, 1977. A decade and a half later this form of guerrilla warfare resurfaced using the same acronym.\nIn 1980 Earth First! was founded by Dave Foreman and others to confront environmental destruction, primarily of the American West. Inspired by the Edward Abbey novel \"The Monkey Wrench Gang\", Earth First! made use of such techniques as treesitting and treespiking to stop logging companies, as well as other activities targeted towards mining, road construction, suburban development, and energy companies.\n\nThe organization was committed to nonviolent ecotage techniques from the group's inception. Others split from the movement in the 1990s, including the Earth Liberation Front (ELF) in 1992, which named itself after the Animal Liberation Front (ALF) which had formed in the 1970s. Three years later in Canada, inspired by the ELF in Europe, the first \"Earth Liberation\" direct action occurred, but this time as the Earth Liberation Army (ELA), a similar movement who use ecotage and monkeywrenching as a tool.\n\nA series of actions earned ELF the label of eco-terrorists, including the burning of a ski resort in Vail, Colorado in 1998, and the burning of an SUV dealership in Oregon in 1999. In the same year the ELA made headlines by setting fire to the Vail Resorts in Washington, D.C., causing $12 million in damages. The defendants in that case were later charged in the FBI's \"Operation Backfire\" with other crimes; this was later named by environmentalists as the Green Scare, alluding to the Red Scare periods of fear over communist infiltration of U.S.\n\nFollowing the September 11, 2001 attacks several laws were passed increasing the penalty for ecoterrorism, and the U.S. Congress held hearings on the activity of groups such as the ELF. To date no one has been killed as a result of an ELF or ALF action, and both groups forbid harming human or non-human life. It was announced in 2003 that \"eco-terrorist\" attacks, known as \"ecotage\", had increased from the ELF, ELA, and the \"Environmental Rangers\", another name used by activists when engaging in similar activity.\n\nIn 2005 the FBI announced that the ELF was America's greatest domestic terrorist threat, responsible for over 1,200 \"criminal incidents\" amounting to tens of millions of dollars in damage to property. The United States Department of Homeland Security confirmed this with regards to both the ALF and ELF.\n\n\nAnti-abortion militants The Army of God use leaderless resistance as their organizing principle. As of 2009, The Army of God's webpage hosts a reprint of an article entitled \"Leaderless Resistance\" from a publication called \"The Seditionist.\"\n\nLeaderless resistance social networks are potentially vulnerable to social network analysis and its derivative, link analysis. Link analysis of social networks is the fundamental reason for the ongoing legislative push in the U.S. and the European Union for mandatory retention of telecommunication traffic data and for limiting access to anonymous prepaid cellphones, as the stored data contain important network analysis clues.\nNetwork analysis was successfully used by French Colonel Yves Godard to break the Algerian resistance between 1955 and 1957 and force them to cease their bombing campaigns. The Algerian conflict may be better described as guerrilla in nature rather than leaderless resistance (see \"Modern Warfare\" by Col. Roger Trinquier), and this illustrates the weakness of cell-structured insurgents when compared to leaderless ones. were obtained by the use of informants and torture and were used to obtain the identities of important individuals in the resistance; these individuals were then assassinated, which disrupted the Algerian resistance networks. The more irreplaceable the individual is in the adversary's network, the greater the damage is done to the network by removing them.\n\nTraditional organizations leave behind much evidence of their activities, such as money trails, and training and recruitment material. Leaderless resistances, supported more by ideologies than organizations, generally lack such traces. The effects of their operations, as reported by the mass media, act as a sort of messaging and recruitment advertising.\n\nThe internet provides counterinsurgents with further challenges. Individual cells (and even a single person can be a cell) can communicate over the internet, anonymously or semi-anonymously sharing information online, to be found by others through well-known websites. Even when it is legally and technically possible to ascertain who accessed what, it is often practically impossible to discern in a reasonable timeframe who is a real threat and who is just curious, a journalist, or a web crawler.\n\nDespite these advantages, leaderless resistance is often unstable. If the actions are not frequent enough or not successful, the stream of publicity, which serves as the recruiting, motivation, and coordination drives for other cells, diminishes. On the other hand, if the actions are too successful, support groups and other social structures will form that are vulnerable to network analysis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1363334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1363334", "title": "List of revived languages", "text": "List of revived languages\n\nA revived language is one that, having experienced near or complete extinction as either a spoken or written language, has been intentionally revived and has regained some of its former status.\n\nThe most frequent reason for extinction is the marginalisation of local languages within a wider dominant nation state, which might at times amount to outright political oppression. This process normally works alongside economic and cultural pressures for greater centralisation and assimilation. Once a language has become marginalised in this way, it is often perceived as being \"useless\" by its remaining speakers, who associate it with low social status and poverty, and consequently fail to pass it on to the next generation. \n\nThe only substantial success story in the field of language revival is Hebrew; all other cases are projects of limited success.\n\nThe Ainu language of the indigenous Ainu people of northern Japan is currently moribund, identified by Japanese scholars as a \"dying language\" since the 1920s. A 2006 survey of the Hokkaido Ainu indicated that only 4.6% of Ainu surveyed were able to converse in or \"speak a little\" Ainu. As of 2001, Ainu was not taught in any elementary or secondary schools in Japan, but was offered at numerous language centres and universities in Hokkaido, as well as at Tokyo's Chiba University. An Ainu language radio station was established in Hokkaido in 2001, and manga books have been produced in the language.\n\nThe work of researcher Kayano Shigeru has been prominent in the revival of Ainu, including the recording of the Ainu oral epics known as \"yukar\". Shigeru also began the Nibutani Ainu Language School in 1983, the first Ainu school in Japan.\n\nBarngarla (Parnkalla, Banggarla) is an Australian Aboriginal language of the Barngarla people in Eyre Peninsula, South Australia, Australia. It is currently being revived by Ghil'ad Zuckermann (University of Adelaide) and the Barngarla community, based on 170-year-old documents.\n\nThe Muwekma Ohlone Tribe of California has revitalized the Chochenyo language, which was last spoken in the 1930s. As of 2009, many students were able to carry on conversations in Chochenyo.\n\nCornish was once spoken in the English county of Cornwall until it became extinct as a spoken language in the late 18th century. The language had been in decline since the 14th century and by the time of the death of the last fluent speakers, was only spoken in the western fringes of the county. Dolly Pentreath (d. 1777) is believed to have been the last speaker of the language. Literature from the Medieval and Tudor periods, and fragments, including grammars, from the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries survived, which allowed Cornish to be reconstructed by a small group of Celtic enthusiasts in the 20th century as part of the Celtic Revival. These Cornish language revivalists borrowed heavily from Welsh and Breton in order to aid in the creation of the modern Cornish language. The reconstruction of the language was known for disputes over orthography during the late 20th century, until a Standard Written Form was agreed upon in 2008. The number of Cornish speakers is difficult to estimate, but it is believed that some 500 individuals have a degree of fluency in the language. The language is now taught in some schools in Cornwall. UNESCO recently reclassified the language from \"extinct\" to \"critically endangered\".\n\nThe Dalmatian language was spoken in Dalmatia, a coastal region of Croatia, in the Middle Ages. Its last known native speaker was Antonio Tuone Udaina, who died on June 10, 1898, as the result of an explosion. The Dalmatian language is being revived by pro-autonomist Dalmatian activists, and today is estimated that there are about 20 fluent Dalmatian speakers and more than one hundred people with some knowledge of the language.\n\nOn six of the seven inhabited islands of Hawaii, Hawaiian was displaced by English and is no longer used as the daily language of communication. The one exception is Niʻihau, where Hawaiian has never been displaced, has never been endangered, and is still used almost exclusively. Native speakers of Niʻihau Hawaiian speak among themselves in a way significantly different from the Hawaiian of the other islands—so different that it can be difficult for non-Niʻihau speakers of Hawaiian to understand. The most marked difference between Niiahauan and Hawaiian is that the Hawaiian K sound is often replaced with a T sound in Niihauan.\n\nEfforts to revive the language have increased in recent decades. Hawaiian language immersion schools are now open to children whose families want to retain (or introduce) Hawaiian language into the next generation. The local NPR station features a short segment titled \"Hawaiian word of the day\". Additionally, the Sunday editions of the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" feature a brief article called \"Kauakukalahale\", written entirely in Hawaiian by a student.\n\nHebrew was revived as a spoken language two millennia after it ceased to be spoken (although it was always used as a written language), and is considered a language revival \"success story\". Although used in liturgy, and to a limited extent commerce, it was extinct as a language used in everyday life until its revival, considered impractically archaic or too sacred for day-to-day communication, although it was, in fact, used as an international language between Jews who had no other common tongue, with several Hebrew-medium newspapers in circulation around Europe at the beginning of the 19th century, and a number of Zionist conferences being conducted exclusively in Hebrew. Starting in the late 19th century, it was revived as an everyday spoken language as part of the emerging Zionist movement. Eliezer Ben-Yehuda largely spearheaded the revival efforts, and his son Itamar Ben-Avi was raised as the first native Hebrew speaker since Hebrew's extinction as an everyday language. Hebrew is now the primary official language of Israel, and the most commonly spoken language there. It is spoken by over 9,000,000 people today. Most of them live in Israel or are Israeli expatriates, but many in Jewish communities outside Israel have undertaken its study.\n\nKaurna is an Australian Aboriginal language of the Kaurna people in Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. It is currently being revived by the Kaurna Warra Pintyandi, a committee of Kaurna Elders and youth, teachers, linguists and other researchers based at the University of Adelaide.\n\nLatin was historically the language of the Roman Empire, but spread through Europe and beyond, thanks partially to its role in the Roman Catholic Church and in higher register.\n\nFeature films and broadcasting have been conducted in Latin. Two notable examples include 1976's \"Sebastiane\" by Derek Jarman and Paul Humfress, and Mel Gibson's \"The Passion of the Christ\" (which also contains long sections in Aramaic). Harry Potter has even been translated into Latin and ancient Greek.\n\nSomewhat like Sanskrit, Hebrew, Maori and Manx, Latin has never been entirely out of view, and has always had some speakers, but a lack of native speakers.\n\nThe UNESCO Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger (2010) declares Lazuri as a language that is definitively endangered. Lazuri is a Southwest Caucasian language spoken by ca. 30,000 people as their mother tongue along the East Black Sea coast of Turkey and in some parts of the Autonomous Republic of Adjara (Salminen, 2007). The region where the Lazi people live is called Lazona (Benninghaus, 1989). Because Lazuri is primarily an oral language, and all new speakers tend to grow up bilingual (typically speaking Lazuri and Turkish), the language is at risk of extinction (e.g., Yuksel-Sokmen & Chasin, 2008). Although the Lazuri alphabet was first established around the late 20s by a native folklorist, named Iskender Tsitasi, who published periodicals and poems until 1938, there were many obstacles to learn and to teach Lazuri due to the lack of language learning resources and limited documentation of the language (interview with language activist in Istanbul, April 2012). Hence, Lazuri remained a primary spoken language until Lazoglu and Feuerstein re-introduced the Lazuri Alboni or Alphabet in Latin letters in 1984 and started to publish periodicals, called 'Ogni' (“Did you hear”). The first Lazuri Dictionary (Bucaklişi & Uzunhasanoğlu, 2006) was among the first one to adopt the Lazuri Alboni. \"The Little Prince\" by Antoine de Saint-Exupery become the first book which has been formally translated into the Lazuri Alboni by Sinan Albayrakoğlu (2011) who worked four years on the Turkish to Lazuri translation. Also, in 2011 the Bosphorus University of Istanbul started to offer Lazuri as an elective class for beginners. With the recent establishment of the Lazika Yayin Kolektif (Lazika Publication Collective) in 2010, current and future generations of students, teachers, authors, and scholars of Lazuri are encouraged to contribute to the process of language revitalization, thus paving the way for a Lazuri literature.\n\nLivonian is a Finnic language spoken in Latvia. It is one of the three languages (along with Manx and Cornish) listed as revived by the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger\".\n\nLeonese was recognised as a seriously endangered language by UNESCO, in 2006. The only legal reference to this language is in the Autonomy Statute of Castile and León. The Province of León government supports the knowledge of this language through courses, by celebrating \"Leonese Language Day\" and by sponsoring literary efforts in the Leonese language, such as \"Cuentos del Sil\", where nine writers from teenagers to people in their eighties develop several stories in Leonese. The Leonese Local Government uses the Leonese language in some of their bureaus, organizes courses for adults and in 2007 organized Leonese Language Day. The Leonese Local Government official website uses the Leonese language. The Leonese language is taught in two schools of León city since February 2008. The local authority for education said it would be taught in all Leonese schools next course.\n\nManx is a language spoken in the Isle of Man, which is in the Irish Sea, between Scotland, England, Ireland and Wales. Manx ceased to function as a community language during the first quarter of the 20th century, but was revived by enthusiasts at a time when there were still a number of native speakers alive. Although at one point no native speakers of the language were alive and it may have been officially classified as \"dead\" in 1975, the revival appears to have gained strength in recent years. There is a regular programme in Manx on Manx Radio. As of 2012 there were sixty-nine pupils undergoing their education through the medium of Manx at the .\n\nMāori is the indigenous language of New Zealand, where it was commonly spoken until the 20th century. In recent times initiatives have been taken to revitalize Māori as a spoken language.\n\nMutsun is one of the eight Ohlone languages originally spoken in the San Juan Bautista, California area. The last fluent speaker, Ascencion Solórzano de Cervantes, died 1930. The contemporary tribe, Amah Mutsun Tribal Band, is working to revive the language using the notes of linguist John Peabody Harrington. The Mutsun language has a program to teach it to tribal members and a dictionary is being planned. The initial member to galvanize the language revitalization is Quirina Geary. Immersion into the language is planned in books, songs, and games Rumsen and Chochenyo are the other two Costanoan languages being revived along with Mutsun. \n\nThe Aranese language, a standardized form of the Pyrenean Gascon variety of the Occitan language spoken in the Aran Valley, in northwestern Catalonia is still spoken. Once considered to be an endangered language, spoken mainly by older people, it is now experiencing a renaissance; it enjoys co-official status with Catalan and Castilian (Spanish) in Catalunya, and since 1984 has been taught in schools.\n\nPalawa kani is an attempt to revive various Tasmanian dialects in a single combined form.\n\nThe original Tasmanian languages, which may have number a dozen or more, became extinct in 1905 when the last native speaker died. As part of community efforts to retrieve as much of the original Tasmanian culture as possible, efforts are made to (re)construct a language for the indigenous community. Due to the scarcity of records, Palawa kani is being constructed as a composite of the estimated 6 to 12 original languages.\n\nTheresa Sainty and Jenny Longey were the first two \"language workers\" to work on the project in 1999.\n\nSanskrit was a pan-South Asian and Southeast Asian (reaching as far as the Philippines) language in Vedic times but lost its prominent place among spoken dialects in modern India. A number of attempts to revive Sanskrit have been made from the 18th century onward. However, it has been challenged in this role by various community languages, Hindi, Urdu and English.\n\nMany of India's, Nepal's and Sri Lanka's scientific and administrative terms are named in Sanskrit, as a counterpart of the western practice of naming scientific developments in Latin or Classical Greek. Many Nepalese names of people and places have derived from Sanskrit which is why it is so important in the history of the Nepali language. The Indian guided missile program that was commenced in 1983 by DRDO has named the five missiles (ballistic and others) that it has developed as Prithvi, Agni, Akash, Nag and Trishul ('Akash', 'Nag' and 'Trishul' are, however, Hindi; though written the same in the Devanagari script, these three words in Sanskrit are - for transliteration - 'Akasha', 'Naga', and 'Trishula'). India's first modern fighter aircraft is named HAL Tejas.\n\nNeo-Sanskrit is spoken in around four villages in India. The Mattur village in central Karnataka, Shimoga district claims to have native speakers of Sanskrit among its population. Historically the village was given by King Krishnadevaraya of the Vijayanagara Empire to Vedic scholars and their families. People in his kingdom spoke Kannada and Telugu.\n\nSamskrita Bharati (, ) is a non-profit organization working to revive Sanskrit, also termed Sanskrit revival. The organization has its headquarters in New Delhi, and U.S. chapter headquarters in San Jose, California. The Samskrita Bharati office in Bangalore is called \"Aksharam\" and houses a research wing, library, publication division, and audio-visual language lab for teaching spoken Sanskrit.\n\nIn the 21st century, Wampanoag became the first Native American language in the United States to be revived, with young children brought up in the language.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001008", "title": "Luna (TV series)", "text": "Luna (TV series)\n\nLuna was a British children's science fiction TV comedy show produced by Central Television for the ITV network which ran for two series in 1983 and 1984. The first series was recorded at the former ATV studios in Elstree, the second at their Nottingham facility.\n\n\"Luna\" was also the name used by the show's central character, played by Patsy Kensit (1st series) and by Jo Wyatt (2nd series). \"Luna\" was co-written by Colin Prockter and Colin Bennett; Bennett also acted in it. The show was created and produced by Micky Dolenz of the pop group the Monkees. The character 80H was played by Roy Macready and U2 by Bob Goody.\n\nThe show was about the domestic life of an eccentric family group set in the year 2040 - although in the setting the characters are not in fact biologically related but assigned to shared living quarters by the bureaucracy. Parts of the setting were decidedly dystopic; in the first episode, Luna is threatened with execution for having lost her citizen's identity card.\n\nA distinctive feature of the show was the language of \"techno-talk\", used by all of the characters and described as an alternate version of English that had emerged to make it easier for computers to understand human speech. Techno-talk was characterised by the formation of new words from stems that already existed in regular spoken English. It also had echoes of George Orwell's Newspeak, albeit that it had been created for a different purpose. For example, the characters live in a \"habiviron\" (from \"habitat\" and \"environment\"); similarly, school is \"eduviron\"; a child is a \"diminibeing\" (abbreviated to \"dimini\") and \"regrets!\" and \"gratitudes!\" replace \"sorry\" and \"thank you\".\n\nThe first season was repeated in the weeks immediately prior the broadcast of the second season, but the programme has not been repeated since then. The entire series has not been wiped and still exists in archive, which is unusual for older children's shows in the UK.\n\n\n\n\nMany of the episodes of Luna feature \"techno talk\" versions of classic or music hall songs. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26592444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26592444", "title": "Maddox Arts", "text": "Maddox Arts\n\nMaddox Arts is a contemporary art gallery in London, at 52 Brook's Mews, in Mayfair. In 2014 it showed work by Amparo Sard.\n\n"}
{"id": "27366631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27366631", "title": "Madras (costume)", "text": "Madras (costume)\n\nThe Madras, also called the Jip or Jupe, is the national dress of the countries of Dominica , Saint Lucia, and French West Indies . A traditional five piece costume it was originally derived from the Wob Dwyiet (or Wobe Dwiette), a grand robe worn by the earlier French settlers, and this garment is also recognised as a national dress of the country. The madras is the traditional dress of the women and girls of Dominica and St. Lucia, and its name is derived from the madras cloth, a fabric used in the costume.\n\nThe cloth, known as the madras, is named after its place of origin, Madras, India. The origins of the madras lie in the pre-emancipation days of St. Lucia, when African slaves on the island would don the colourful dress during feast days. Beginning in the late 17th century, slaves on the island were forced to wear the livery of the estate to which they belonged. Normally a single colour, one piece item, originally worn as a sarong, later becoming a simple tunic with holes for the arms and head, and a simple rope belt. During Sundays and holidays, the slaves could normally wear what they wished, and through monies earned through selling produce from small plots of land, they would often buy colourful cloth. On feast days and special occasions, free women and slaves would wear the colourful clothes, now known as \"Creole dress\".\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century the Indian cotton known as 'muchoir madras' became popular amongst the Creole women, and eventually replaced the white cotton head kerchief. The material was soon used for scarfs and then the 'jupe' or skirt. With the fashion for ribbons becoming popular, women added them to the lace on the arms and the neck of their chemise. The chemise, once fashionably long, became shorter until replaced by a blouse and petticoat, but still with the threaded ribbons.\n\nThe madras today is almost identical to the traditional costumes worn by other former French colonies of the Caribbean, including the neighbouring islands of Martinique, Guadeloupe and Dominica. In 2004 a national awareness campaign was launched by the Saint Lucian government during the 25th anniversary of the country's Independence. Both the Madras and the Wob Dwyiet, recognised as symbols of the country, were included in this campaign.\n\nThe Madras is made up of five individual pieces of clothing. The costume comprises a white cotton or poplin blouse, known in French Creole as a chimiz decolté or chemise decoltee, finished with Broderie Anglaise and red ribbons. The second item is an ankle length skirt, again trimmed with lace and red ribbons; which has two gathers towards the lower end of the garment. The third item is the shorter outer skirt, made of Madras material, to which the costume is named. The Madras material is used again in the fourth item, the head piece, known as the \"Tête en l'air\" or \"tèt anlè\"; a square or rectangular piece of cloth worn over the forehead and folded to display varying numbers of peaks. The head scarf can be tied in a ceremonial fashion or can be worn to show the availability of the woman in courtship, depending on the number of peaks tied into it. One peak represents that the woman is single, two that she is married, three that she is widowed or divorced, and four that she is available to any who tries. The final item is a triangular silk scarf, \"foulard\", pinned to the left shoulder, its apex at the end of the elbow and tucked into the waist of the skirt.\n\nThe costume is traditionally worn on Independence Day, National Day and Jounen Kwéyòl (Creole Day). It is also worn when dancing the Quadrille, which has been adopted by the country as the national dance.\n\n"}
{"id": "56150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56150", "title": "Mainstream", "text": "Mainstream\n\nMainstream is current thought that is widespread. It includes all popular culture and media culture, typically disseminated by mass media. It is to be distinguished from subcultures and countercultures, and at the opposite extreme are cult followings and fringe theories.\n\nThis word is sometimes used in a pejorative sense by subcultures who view ostensibly mainstream culture as not only exclusive but artistically and aesthetically inferior. In the United States, mainline churches are sometimes referred to synonymously as \"mainstream.\"\n\nThe labels \"Mainstream media\", or \"mass media\", are generally applied to print publications, such as newspapers and magazines that contain the highest readership among the public, and to radio formats and television stations that contain the highest viewing and listener audience, respectively. This is in contrast to various independent media, such as alternative media newspapers, specialized magazines in various organizations and corporations, and various electronic sources such as podcasts and blogs (Though certain blogs are more mainstream than others given their association with a mainstream source.\n\nMainstream science is scientific inquiry in an established field of study that does not depart significantly from orthodox theories. In the philosophy of science, mainstream science is an area of scientific endeavor that has left the process of becoming established. New areas of scientific endeavor still in the process of becoming established are generally labelled protoscience or fringe science. A definition of mainstream in terms of protoscience and fringe science can be understood from the following table:\nBy its standard practices of applying good scientific methods, mainstream is distinguished from pseudoscience as a demarcation problem and specific types of inquiry are debunked as junk science, cargo cult science, scientific misconduct, etc.\n\nMainstream pressure, through actions such as peer pressure, can force individuals to conform to the mores of the group (e.g., an obedience to the mandates of the peer group). Some, such as those of modern Hipster culture, have stated that they see mainstream as the antithesis of individuality.\n\nAccording to sociologist G. William Domhoff, critiques of mainstream sociology and political science that suggest their allegiance to an elite few, such as the work of sociologists C. Wright Mills (especially his book \"The Power Elite\") and Floyd Hunter, troubles mainstream sociologists, and mainstream sociology \"often tries to dismiss power structure research as muckraking or mere investigative journalism\" and downplays the notion of dominance by a power elite because of doubts about the ability of many business sectors to coordinate a unified program, while generally overlooking a policy-planning network that can perform this function.\n\n\"Mainstream Christianity\" is a term used to collectively refer to the common views of major denominations of Christianity (such as Orthodox Christianity, Roman Catholicism, Anglicanism, and Protestantism) as opposed the particular tenets of other Christian denominations. The context is dependent on the particular issues addressed, but usually contrasts an orthodox majority view against a heterodox minority view. In the most common sense, \"mainstream\" refers to Nicene Christianity, that is the traditions which accept the Nicene Creed.\n\nMainstream American Protestant churches (also called \"Mainline Protestant\") are a group of Protestant churches in the United States that have stressed social justice and personal salvation, and both politically and theologically, tend to be more liberal than non-mainstream Protestants. Mainstream Protestant churches share a common approach that often leads to collaboration in organizations such as the National Council of Churches, and because of their involvement with the ecumenical movement, they are sometimes given the alternative label of \"ecumenical Protestantism\" (especially outside the United States). While in 1970 the mainstream Protestant churches claimed most Protestants and more than 30 percent of the American population as members, they are a minority among American Protestants, claiming approximately 15 percent of American adults.\n\n\"Mainstreaming\" is the practice of bringing disabled students into the “mainstream” of student life. Mainstreamed students attend some classes with typical students and other classes with students that have similar disabilities. Mainstreaming represents a midpoint between full inclusion (all students spend all day in the regular classroom) and dedicated, self-contained classrooms or special schools (disabled students are isolated with other disabled students).\n\nThe term \"mainstream\" refers to the main current of a river or stream. Its figurative use by Thomas Carlyle to indicating the prevailing taste or mode is attested at least as early as 1831. Indeed, one citation of this sense is found prior to Carlyle's, as early as 1599.\n\n"}
{"id": "7043264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7043264", "title": "Mazinibaganjigan", "text": "Mazinibaganjigan\n\nMazinibaganjigan (plural: \"mazinibaganjiganan\") or birch bark biting is an ancient folk art made by the Ojibwe (Anishinaabe), Odawa, Cree, and other Algonquian peoples who use birch bark, by biting down on small pieces of folded birch bark to form intricate designs.\n\nSamples of artwork made in this fashion were sent in the 1600s to Europe by Jesuits, where it had been previously unknown. The practice remained common in Saskatchewan as late as the 1950s.\n\nIt is also known as \"mazinashkwemaganjigan(-an)\" (by Northwestern Ontario Ojibwe) and 'njigan(-an)\" (by Wisconsin Ojibwe). In English, this has been described either as \"birch bark bitings\" or \"birch bark transparencies.\"\n\nThin and flexible pieces of birch bark are chosen. This kind of bark is easiest to find in the early spring. Using the eyeteeth to bite, the bite pressures can either pierce the bark pieces into a lace or just make certain areas thinner to allow for light to pass through. If the bark piece is carefully folded, symmetrical designs can also be made onto it.\n\nMany of the designs that are used contain symbological and religious significance to the Ojibwa. Though the practice almost died out, there are an estimated dozen practitioners left in Canada and the United States, some of whom display the craft in contexts outside of their original intentions to show evidence of this ancient practice. Birch bark bitings can be used in storytelling, as patterns for quillwork and beadwork, as well as finished pieces of art. The holes created by biting are sometimes filled with coloured threads to create woven designs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16542899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16542899", "title": "Midvinterblot", "text": "Midvinterblot\n\nMidvinterblot (Swedish for \"Midwinter sacrifice\") is a painting by the Swedish painter Carl Larsson, created in 1915 for the hall of the central staircase in Nationalmuseum in Stockholm. It has been called Sweden's most controversial painting. \n\nThe painting depicts a legend from Norse mythology in which the Swedish king Domalde is sacrificed to avert famine. After long debate, the painting was rejected by the museum; but the controversy resurfaced in the late 20th century, and the painting finally was placed where Carl Larsson had intended.\n\nLarsson was commissioned to decorate all the walls of the central staircase in the museum except for one, and he wanted to decorate the last wall as well. He intended the last wall to present a contrast to the other illustrations of the staircase. Whereas the painting \"Gustav Vasa enters Stockholm 1523\" presented a midsummer theme with a triumphant king, Larsson wanted the last illustration to be a midwinter theme with a king who sacrificed himself for his people.\n\nLarsson went to Copenhagen to visit the National Museum of Denmark where he copied the ornamentation of an Iron Age fibula. The literary sources that inspired Larsson were Adam of Bremen and Snorri Sturluson. On the subject of the Temple at Uppsala, Adam of Bremen had written:\n\nIn this temple, built entirely of gold, the people worship the statues of three gods. These images are arranged so that Thor, the most powerful, has his throne in the middle of the group of three. On either side of him sit Othin and Freyr. [...] Near that temple is a very large tree with widespread branches which are always green both in winter and summer. What kind of tree it is nobody knows. There is also a spring there where the pagan are accustomed to perform sacrifices and to immerse a human being alive. As long as his body is not found, the request of the people will be fulfilled.\n\nSnorri Sturluson wrote on the subject of the sacrifice of the king:\n\nDomald took the heritage left by his father Visbur, and ruled over the land. As in his time there was great famine and distress, the Swedes made great offerings of sacrifice at Upsal. The first autumn they sacrificed oxen, but the succeeding season was not improved thereby. The following autumn they sacrificed men, but the succeeding year was rather worse. The third autumn, when the offer of sacrifices should begin, a great multitude of Swedes came to Upsal; and now the chiefs held consultations with each other, and all agreed that the times of scarcity were on account of their king Domald, and they resolved to offer him for good seasons, and to assault and kill him, and sprinkle the stalle of the gods with his blood. And they did so.\n\nThe earliest known sketch (№ 236) is made in graphite and is located in the Carl Larsson museum in Sundborn. It was dated by Karl Axel Arvidsson to a time shortly after the visit to Copenhagen in 1910. In July, Larsson started to paint a large version, which was finished in January 1911, but it is only preserved in a photograph. It is based on the early sketch but it presents a richer set of figures in the foreground. The early version was put on display in Nationalmuseum without receiving any official comments. There was no formal order and no official contest had been declared, and the initiative was only Larsson's.\n\nAn anonymous writer calling himself \"Archaeologist\" voiced harsh criticism in \"Dagens Nyheter\" on February 20, 1911. The writer stated that there were several anachronisms in the painting and which had been combined freely. The anonymous writer called the temple a \"summer restaurant\" decorated with motives from the Biological museum in Stockholm and he considered the dresses in the painting to be as preposterous as a Swedish farm with camels walking around the dunghill.\n\nThe criticism against the artistic freedom of giving a personal interpretation of a distant historic event, could have been directed at many other historic paintings of the 19th century. The criticism against Midvinterblot would be in the same vein during the following years. Larsson retorted that he would happily delegate the task to a younger talent—but he made a second version in oil (№ 237) in which he made the temple wider and where he added an executioner in the centre. The sets of characters were more closely assembled and the frieze-like quality was enhanced.\n\nSome major changes were introduced in a third watercolour painting (№ 238) which he made during the autumn of 1913. This version was given the text \"En drömsyn. En konung offras för folket\" (\"a dream vision, a king sacrificed for his people\"), a text which was possibly added in the hope that it would not be considered to be an attempt at a historically faithful reconstruction.\n\nThe most essential change consisted of a more monumental composition. The temple had been enlarged considerably and given a more stern shape, and the figures had been more closely assembled and they formed an unbroken relief-like row. The sketch was put on exhibition in the museum in November 1913 and in a letter to Ludvig Looström, the director of the museum, Larsson offered the painting for 35,000 Swedish kronor.\n\nThis version was criticised even before the museum board had had time to present their own view. August Brunius, who had expressed his enthusiasm for the Gustav Vasa painting, reacted against the choice of subject, like most critics. The choice of subject was only aggravated by the way it was presented. Brunius felt the painting to be unreal, unbelievable and not very relevant for the modern Swedes of the early 20th century.\n\nOn January 17, 1914, the museum's board presented their ambivalent view on the painting. The majority of the board seconded the motion that Larsson was to finish \"Midvinterblot\" for the museum wall, but they added the reservation that the main scene with the sacrifice of a king should be excluded or downplayed. The director of the museum, Looström, objected to the board's ruling, and he declared the painting to illustrate a \"ritual killing\" and he would rather the wall remain empty. Carl Larsson received the ruling of the board as a confirmation that the museum accepted his painting, but he declared that he would not make the suggested changes, nor would he accept the suggestion that the painting should be installed in the Stockholm City Hall instead.\n\nEven Larsson's good friend and biographist Georg Nordensvan joined the critics, but he could not sway Larsson's determination either, although Larsson probably took his criticism hardest. The archaeologist Bror Schnittger, who was probably identical to the anonymous writer who had initiated the criticism, launched additional criticism in \"Svenska Dagbladet\" against the lack of historical authenticity in the painting. The distance in dating between the objects in the painting were given as at least 2000 years and Schnittger thought that the painting was unacceptable in the museum building. Larsson stated that he intentionally included objects that would be from the distant past in relation to the setting of the painting, and that he did not see these as anachronisms, because he imagined the subjects would be antiquarians who kept ancient items as ritual objects.\n\nOn March 1, 1914, Larsson, who was by then ostracized, wrote a letter to the minister of religious affairs and declared that he resigned from the task of illustrating the museum wall.\n\nIn May 1914, Carl Larsson resumed the work on the painting on his own initiative. During 1915, he presented a painted sketch (№ 239), which was largely consistent with the previous painting. The king had been remade based on an oil painting (№ 240) that Larsson had made with a male model named Rydberg in 1914. The king's position was more pathetically composed and expressive and it agreed more with the change of emphasis that had taken place during the evolution of the work after Larsson's decision that the sacrifice was voluntary.\n\nA new figure, a wizard, had been added to the left of the sleighs and the lion guardians at the entry of the temple, which had received a noticeably Chinese character. The colours are forceful and there are considerable amounts of gold, something that Larsson intended as a disclaimer of the common notion that pre-history was gray.\n\nBefore the final decision, both the board and Carl Larsson knew that the minister of religious affairs was favourable towards the new painting. However, a majority of the board, including the former director Looström and his successor Richard Bergh, was against it, and only two were in favour. Instead, the board asked Larsson to make a different painting. Larsson did not answer initially, but he declared in the press that he still considered \"Midvinterblot\" to be among the greatest and most beautiful works he had ever made.\n\nThe minister asked for expert advice and the debate continued in the newspapers. There were suspicions that there was a political side to the animosity between Bergh and Larsson, but these suspicions were convincingly dispelled much later by Prince Eugén, Duke of Närke in a personal letter.\n\nA book published by Nationalmuseum in 1992 on Carl Larsson claims that the most immediate and natural explanation for the ultimate rejection of the painting was the fact that time had rendered the painting unfashionable. Because of the long debate, the painting became a survivor from a time past and it could not meet the modernist ideals of the new century.\n\nThe final version was exhibited where it was intended to be in June 1915. In the following year, it was shown at the art gallery Liljevalchs konsthall as its first exhibit was dedicated to Carl Larsson, Bruno Liljefors and Anders Zorn. It was tentatively shown again in Nationalmuseum during the period 1925–1933. In 1942, the painting was stored at the \"Archive for Public Decorative Art\" (now renamed the \"Museum of Sketches\") in Lund, where it was prominently on show for forty years.\n\nAccording to the book by Nationalmuseum, the controversy concerned Carl Larsson's personal prestige and the ideals that he stood for, but his contemporaries would turn more and more indifferent to these ideals. The events embittered his last years and he declared in his autobiography that the controversy broke him down and that he admitted it with anger. It is clear that he began to identify himself with the work and it is possible that he also identified himself with the sacrificed king, as he primarily saw conspiracies and bad intentions behind the opposition. This identification was made apparent in his self-portrait, in 1916, where he presented himself as king Domalde, and which he donated to Sundborn parish where he lived.\n\nDuring 1983–1984, the painting was exhibited at the Swedish Museum of National Antiquities in Stockholm, and after this exhibit an art dealer offered to donate or sell the painting to Nationalmuseum. The board rejected the offer with the statement that the Old Norse motif was more appropriate for the Museum of National Antiquities, which at the time still shared the same building as Nationalmuseum. When the Museum of National Antiquities had been moved to a building of its own, the painting should be moved there too.\n\nAfter this rejection, the painting was sold to a Swedish art collector who offered to sell it to the Museum of National Antiquities for 12 million Swedish kronor. This offer caused a controversy in which people debated if the painting belonged to Nationalmuseum or the Museum of National Antiquities. In this debate where there were exaggerations in both directions, people claimed that the painting was both an unsurpassed masterpiece of Swedish art and a work of suspect morality. In 1987, it was sold by Sotheby's in London to a Japanese art collector.\n\nIn 1992, Nationalmuseum celebrated its bicentennial anniversary and dedicated the exhibit to Carl Larsson. The Japanese owner lent the painting to the museum and when the 300,000 visitors of the late 20th century could see the work for the first time in the hall where it was intended to be, the general opinion changed.\n\nIn 1997, Nationalmuseum bought the painting from the collector ordered a frame for stretching the canvas from Per Målare, a carpenter in Gagnef, Dalarna, and installed it permanently where Carl Larsson had intended it to be.\n\nThe painting provides the background for the book \"Midwinterblood\" by Marcus Sedgwick, published in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "15844076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15844076", "title": "Mingun Bell", "text": "Mingun Bell\n\nThe Mingun Bell ( ) is a bell located in Mingun, Sagaing Region, Myanmar. It is located approximately north of Mandalay on the western bank of the Irrawaddy River. It was the heaviest functioning bell in the world at several times in history. \n\nThe weight of the bell is 55,555 viss (). This number is conveniently remembered by many people in Myanmar as a mnemonic \"Min Hpyu Hman Hman Pyaw\" (), with the consonants representing the number 5 in Burmese astronomy and numerology. The weight of the bell and its mnemonic words are written on the surface of the bell in white.\n\nThe outer diameter of the rim of the bell is . The height of the bell is on the exterior and in the interior. The outside circumference at the rim is . The bell is thick and stands high from the rim to the top.\n\nThe bell is uncracked and in good ringing condition. The bell does not have a clanger but is rung by striking the outer edge.\n\nCasting of the bell started in 1808 and was finished by 1810. King Bodawpaya (r. 1782–1819) had this gigantic bell cast to go with his huge stupa, Mingun Pahtodawgyi. The bell was said to have been cast on the opposite side of the river and was transported by using two boats, which after crossing the river, proceeded up two specially built canals. The canals were then dammed and the bell was lifted by raising the water level by the addition of earth into the blocked canal. In this way the bell was originally suspended.\n\nThe Mingun Bell was knocked off its supports as a result of a large earthquake on 23 March 1839. It was resuspended by the Irrawaddy Flotilla Company in March 1896 using screw jacks and levers using funds from public subscription. The party to celebrate was attended by many and an hourly boat was required to take visitors from nearby Mandalay. Felice Beato captured a photograph of the bell prior to its resuspension.\n\nAt 90 tons, the Mingun Bell reigned as the largest ringing bell in the world until 2000, when it was eclipsed by the 116-ton Bell of Good Luck at the Foquan Temple, Pingdingshan, Henan, China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "897730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897730", "title": "Moambe", "text": "Moambe\n\nPalm butter or palm cream, frequently known as moambe, mwambe or nyembwe, is an ingredient made from the pericarp (not the seeds) of palm nuts, the fruit of the African oil palm (\"Elaeis guineensis\") tree. It forms an important ingredient in stews and sauces in African cuisine.\n\nDishes made with the sauce often include peanuts, peanut sauce, or peanut butter. The meat usually used in the dishes is chicken but other meats such as beef, fish, mutton, or any wild game meat such as crocodile or venison are used as well. Moambe chicken is considered a national dish of three African countries.\n\nIn order to make palm butter, palm nuts are boiled and then pounded. The pulp is mixed with water, sieved and boiled again. Canned palm soup base, also called \"sauce graine\" or \"noix de palme\" may be substituted.\n\nIn Gabon, the sauce is usually called \"nyembwe\" from the Myene word for palm oil. The most important dish using nyembwe is Nyembwe chicken (French: \"poulet [au] Nyembwe\" or \"poulet [au] Gnemboue\") which is considered a national dish of Gabon.\n\nIn the Republic of the Congo, the sauce is called \"moambé\" or \"mwambe\". Moambe chicken is considered a national dish of the country.\n\nIn western regions of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, \"mwambi\" or \"mwambe\" () is the name given to the sauce of palm oil or peanuts. Poulet à la Moambé, \"chicken in a \"moambe\" sauce\", is also considered the Congo's national dish.\n\nIn Angola the dish is called \"muamba de galinha\" and is considered a national dish as well. It is usually served with funge, a manioc purée, and can be made with fish on occasions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18338962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18338962", "title": "Mythomoteur", "text": "Mythomoteur\n\nA mythomoteur (compound of the French words for myth and engine) is the constitutive myth that gives an ethnic group its sense of purpose. The term was first used in this context by Ramon d’Abadal i de Vinyals, and was later taken up by John Armstrong in his book \"Nations before Nationalism\". It has subsequently become a common theme in Anthony D. Smith’s work on ethnicity and nationalism, particularly his book \"The Ethnic Origins of Nations\". Three types of mythomoteur have been identified, the communal-political, the communal-religious, and the dynastic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36174691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36174691", "title": "National Center for Assessment in Higher Education", "text": "National Center for Assessment in Higher Education\n\nMeasurement is derived from the verb 'to measure' which means to assess something; in Arabic 'yaqees' 'measure' has the meaning of comparing something to something else. In this sense, measurement is a daily practice that manifests itself in all our assessment activities, whether we assess concrete things in terms of size and color, or abstract things such as human relations. The ultimate goal of 'measuring' something is to assess ourselves in comparison to everything else in the world.\n\nSome of measurement areas include measuring the level or standard of knowledge nationwide or measuring the standard of a particular sect of the whole population or measuring for licensing or admission purposes in university education, vocational or technical education, for example. Measurement can never be done without well-recognized and approved criteria. We use the 'meter', for example, as the measuring unit for distance and use 'gram' unit for weight and 'hour' unit for time and so on.\n\nScientifically speaking, there have been numerous definitions of 'measurement' that vary depending on the measured object and the set criteria, goals and controls of measurement.\nMeasurement varies based on:\n\nAssessment simply means to evaluate something, and in scientific terms it refers to the process of passing judgment to evaluate capacity, knowledge, actions, solutions, methods, materials, etc. This is often done by applying certain criteria and standards to check adequacy, accuracy and effectiveness. In other words, evaluation means to give something a value based on approved standards. In the educational field, assessment refers to testing students' achievement and how far is obtained relative to some known educational objectives or goals. Measurement and assessment are so related and integrated.\n\nOn 19/8/2000 AD, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques ordered the establishment of “The National Center for Assessment in higher Education” to perform standardized tests to measure student achievements applying for undergraduate study.\n\nAfter the establishment, the center set the mission, vision and goals, to determine its plan and path, which based itself on preparing scientific and professional standards where equity and efficiency are present, and at the same time, to achieve global leadership in the formulation tests and standards in the educational and professional fields.\n\nThe center includes a number of functional, linguistic, and professional departments entrusted with the preparation of tests and assessments, as well as other supportive departments. The Centre has also developed an organizational structure that explains the process of decision making and how it moves from the top of the pyramid of management to the rest of the departments.\n\nSince its establishment, the center has made outstanding accomplishments in the preparation and formulation of standardized testing in various educational and professional fields that has been published in annual reports, which is part of the center’s strategy of clarity, transparency and communication with various segments of society.\n\nOn the 19th of Jumada al-awwal 1421 AH which corresponds to the 19th of August 2000, a royal decree numbered 471/8 affirming the Higher Education Council’s along with the Council of Ministers Decision, which includes:\n\nTo provide educational and professional assessments that contributes in achieving equity and to elevate the efficiency of the institutions of our society, and to provide specialized studies and consultations in the field of educational assessment.\n\nTo achieve global leadership in the formulation of tests and standards in the educational and professional fields.\n\n\nEducational tests presented by the center, are considered the most important test that are being developed, and it consists of two sections : The verbal and the quantitative. These test forces on student's analytical and deductive skills, in order to help them assess their learning capacity.\n\nLinguistic tests, are the second type of tests provided by the center, it includes: English language efficiency test, and the Arabic language test for non-native speakers. The center also presents an assessment test for talented and creative students, as well as vocational tests, the most important of which: Vocational Standards Test for Teachers.\n\nThe test developing process goes through a number of steps, which includes theoretical and practical aspect. After the tests are formulated, they are subjected to examinations and testing through a specialized arbitrary committee, and prior to the final approval, the test are revised by a specialized committee, that consists of four experts.\n\nTest construction is based upon practical and scientific rules that are applied before, during and after each item until it finally becomes a part of the test. The following are the stages of constructing a test as followed by the Center.\n\nEach year the Center attracts a number of competent specialists in testing and educationalists to receive training in workshops that deal with the theoretical and applied aspects of the test. The theoretical aspects include:\n\n\nApplied training includes:\n\n\nVarious items of the test are arbitrated by a 3-member committee:\n\nEach item is either:\n\nBased on a set questionnaire the committee judge each item from various dimensions including the nature of the item, item difficulty, item conformity to the content controls, item bias, and item quality. Justifications have to be provided if an item is deemed invalid. All data is entered into the Center's computer.\n\nAll items are entered into the computer marked with the relevant arbitration judgment except those deemed invalid or incorrigible.\n\nAll the computerized items are reviewed by four testing experts to verify:\n\n\nTrial items are included in the actual test and they go through the same stages of test preparation above, but they do not calculate towards the final score.\n\nItems are statistically analyzed so that the valid ones are selected for the test, while the invalid ones are rejected.\n\nTest is constructed in its final form. Items are randomly selected from those deposited in the question bank in a manner that adequately represents that various parts of test dimensions.\n\nThe test is finally produced. Trial questions are included and various versions of the test are prepared to avoid cheating. The test is printed in booklets that include test instructions and test items.\n\nThe Center produces multiple versions of the same test. However, the Center has been cautious about discrepancies between various versions of the test in terms of difficulty, discrimination or content. An equivalence check is run during test construction based on scientific criteria to ensure test discrimination and differential capacity. Although it is more accurate to run equivalence test during construction stage, equivalence criterion is applied during and after the test.\n\nObjectives:\n\nThe Objectives of this test is to detect the student’s potential abilities and academic skills in the fields of Language, Mathematics, Science, and some creativity aspects, given to it by a series of dimensions, sections, styles, and images.\n\nSections:\n\nEligible test takers:\nAll levels of public education starting from 3rd grade all the way to the senior year of high school, in all the schools in the kingdom, note that the detection tools will be applied on the following educational levels:\n\n\nObjectives \n\nThis test measures a student's analytical and deductive skills. It focuses on testing the student's capacity for learning in general regardless of any specific skill in a certain subject or topic. The test measures abilities relevant to:\n\nGAT Sections\n\nThe test is divided into two sections, the verbal and the quantitative.\nA. The verbal section. This section includes the following.\n\n\nB. The quantitative Section\n\nThis section includes suitable mathematical problems that match General Secondary Schools Science and humanities majors. It focuses on measurements, inference and problem solving skills and requires only basic knowledge. The questions are divided as follows:\n\nAs for the humanities-major students, GAT includes 30 questions on arithmetic ,geometry and mathematical analysis.\n\nTest duration\n\nThe test normally takes two and half hours, divided on 25-minute intervals for each of the six test parts.\n\nResults\n\nAnswer sheets are machine-graded and results are listed and printed and then announced. A student can receive GAT score via the Center's website or through an SMS for those registered for this service. Results are electronically sent to universities and colleges. For student who did the test more than once, only the highest score is sent. GAT is not a Pass-Fail test. The recorded score that the student receives represents the relevant position that the student occupies among the total number of students taking the test. Every higher education institution in Saudi Arabia has its own method of interpreting the relevant weight of GAT vs. General Secondary School final score. Competition in university admission is then based on the combined total scores of the GAT and General Secondary School in addition to the score obtained in any achievement test administered by the university (if required).\n\nIs GAT a Pass/Fail test?\n\nAs noted above, GAT is no Pass/Fail test. This 100-point test carries a certain relative weight interpreted by the institution the student applies for. GAT score should not be compared to that of General Secondary School score. What really matters is the relevant position of the student compared to those of other students, according to the following table:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nComponents and Duration\n\nSections of the test\n\nObjectives\n\nEligible test-takers\n\nTest Times\n\n \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46202319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46202319", "title": "Near East and South Asia Undergraduate Exchange Program", "text": "Near East and South Asia Undergraduate Exchange Program\n\nThe Near East and South Asia Undergraduate Exchange Program or Near East, South Asia, and Sub-Saharan Africa Undergraduate Exchange Program is an American international student exchange program. It provides for students from the Near East, from South Asia and from Sub-Saharan Africa to attend American universities for a year of study. It is managed by World Learning for the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the United States Department of State, and is a part of the Bureau's Global Undergraduate Exchange Program. In the academic year 2013–2014, students who visited the United States under the program came from Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Egypt, Ghana, India, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Oman, the Palestinian Territories, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.\n\n"}
{"id": "1235428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235428", "title": "Nude swimming", "text": "Nude swimming\n\nNude swimming, or skinny dipping, is the practice of bathing naked, originally in natural bodies of water, but also in swimming pools or hot tubs. The term \"dipping\" was the practice of being immersed in spring waters, for health reasons at spa towns.\n\nThe widespread social convention and practice today is for swimmers especially in public places to wear swimsuits. Most countries do not have specific laws proscribing nude swimming, and the matter is regulated largely by social convention and practice. Nude swimming takes place on nude beaches, or at naturist facilities, segregated public swimming areas or in private swimming pools. Some countries around the world regard nude swimming as public nudity, which is treated in a variety of ways, ranging from tolerance to strict enforcement of prohibitions against it.\n\nThe term \"skinny-dip\" was first recorded in English in 1947 and is most commonly used in the United States.\n\nBathing by both sexes together had occurred since time immemorial and is documented in neolithic cave drawings and Roman mosaics and frescos. The woodcut illustrations in Everard Digby's 1587 book \"The Art of Swimming (De Arte Natandi)\" and later, the 40 copperplate etchings in Melchisédech Thévenot's 1789 instruction book, also called \"The Art of Swimming\", illustrate that swimming was normally costume free. When working people started visiting the coast to be 'dipped' for health or to 'bathe' for leisure cannot be determined but had been happening for 'some time' in 1709.\n\nFor the common folk, splashing in rivers and swimming was a leisure activity and always done naked by boys and men and often by the women and girls. Bathing in the sea by the lower classes was noted in Southampton by Thomas Gray in 1764, and in Exmouth by shoals of Exeter damsels in unsufferable undress in 1779. Lancashire working people bathed naked in the sea without any segregation in 1795:\n\nThomas Guidott set up a medical practice in the English town of Bath in 1668. He became interested in the curative properties of the waters and he wrote \"A discourse of Bathe, and the hot waters there. Also, Some Enquiries into the Nature of the water\" in 1676. This brought the health-giving properties of the hot mineral waters to the attention of the aristocracy. Doctors and quacks set up further spa towns such as Harrogate, Bath, Matlock and Buxton soon after taking advantage of mineral water from chalybeate springs. Here cures were guaranteed by 'taking the water' or being 'dipped' by bathing attendant in cold water. Treatment was received in the nude. Until the 1670s nude female bathing in the spas was the norm and only after that restrictions were imposed. As time progressed the resorts had to address two questions; was it right that men and women bathed together, and was it right that clothes should be worn. Establishments sought to impose dress codes.\n\nEach town was free to make its own laws, and some chose to. For example, the Bath Corporation official bathing dress code of 1737 prohibited men and women to swim nude either in the day or in the night. Bath's specific rules were prescribed as follows:\n\nFemale bathing costumes were derived from those worn at Bath and other spas.\n\nIn the early 1730s, fashionable sea bathing initially followed the inland health seeking tradition. At English resorts such as Scarborough and Whitby, natural springs emerged from the cliffs allowing fresh water to be ingested and cold dip in the sea. The resorts modelled themselves on Bath, and provided promenades, circulating libraries and assembly rooms.\n\nWhile sea bathing or dipping, men and boys were naked. Women and girls were encouraged to dip wearing loose clothing. Scarborough was the first resort to provide bathing machines for changing. Some men extended this to swimming in the sea and by 1736 it was seen at Brighton and Margate, and later at Deal, Eastbourne and Portsmouth. Seeing them frolicking in the sea attracted sightseers to the sea spa resort.\n\nWorking people also started to visit the coast to be dipped or bathe. In 1709, Walton records a man from Crosby having his daughters dipped in the sea to cure a skin complaint.\n\nAmong notable Americans, Benjamin Franklin, an avid swimmer, possessed a copy of \"The Art of Swimming\" by Melchisédech Thévenot, which featured illustrations of nude swimmers. American president John Quincy Adams was known to skinny-dip.\n\nAt the beginning of the Victorian period, working people of both sexes bathed for pleasure without clothes. The genteel classes were bathing for health from using bathing machines, the men and boys swam naked while the girls and women dipped alongside them. On the River Cherwell near the University of Oxford an area for male nude bathing was known as Parson's Pleasure, and a nearby area for female nude bathing was known as Dame's Delight.\n\nThe rise of the influence of Christian Evangelicals caused arrangements for mixed bathing to be reassessed. Moral pressures forced some town councils to establish zones for the women and men to bathe separately. A half-hearted attempt was made to suggest to men that torso-suits would be fashionable, but this was resisted by genteel swimmers who believed that torso-suits restricted the contact between the skin and the saltwater.\n\nThese areas were not policed, and around 1860–75, under pressure from the church ever stricter bylaws were passed but not enforced. Mixed bathing was a popular activity for families, who would take their custom to the next resort along the coast if mixed bathing was forbidden. Resorts were trying to placate the Evangelicals without upsetting traditional bathers by designating separate areas of the beach.\n\nDrawers, or caleçons as they were called (\"fr:caleçon de bain\"), came into use in the 1860s. Even then there were many who protested against them and wanted to remain in the nude. Rev. Francis Kilvert, an English nude swimmer, quoted by Cinder described men's bathing suits coming into use in the 1870s as \"a pair of very short red and white striped drawers\". Excerpts from Kilvert's diary show the transition in the England of the 1870s from an acceptance of nude bathing to the acceptance of bathing suits. Kilvert describes \"a delicious feeling of freedom in stripping in the open air and running down naked to the sea.\"\n\nThere are very few records of magistrates enforcing the bylaws. In 1895 \"Cosmopolitan\" reported: \"At most English resorts, buff bathing is available before eight o'clock in the morning\" while Brighton, Worthing, Hastings, Bexhill, Bognor and Folkestone still tolerated nude bathing at any time of the day, in areas away from the central bathing areas.\n\nIn 1895, \"The Daily Telegraph\", \"Standard\", \"Daily Graphic\" and \"Daily Mail\" newspapers ran a campaign to reintroduce mixed bathing in all resorts, pointing out that its prohibition split up families and encouraged them to take their holidays abroad. Commercial pressure defeated the moral pressures. Sea bathing had ceased to be done for health reasons, and was done overwhelmingly for pleasure. As the segregated beaches in town disappeared, bathing costumes for men became part of the commercial package, and nude bathing ceased. Nude bathing continued to be practised outside resorts on isolated pieces of coast; a very few of these known beaches and coves later got local authority recognition as nude beaches.\n\nThe introduction of mixed bathing throughout Europe and elsewhere certainly created pressure towards bathing costumes being worn by both genders. However, well into the latter days of the Victorian Era, whereas all females were routinely wearing modest bathing attire, many boys well into their teens in Victorian England, even when in a mixed gender setting, were still swimming and playing at the beach resorts completely naked. An article published on August 23, 1891 in the \"Syracuse Sunday Herald\" suggests naked boys of up to 15 years in age were problematic for American parents with daughters, and read:\n\nAll this was very much an English problem and one of attitude. In France discreet nude bathing for both sexes remained acceptable anywhere along the coast or on river banks apart from those in the town or village centres. In Germany, provision for nude swimming is made in major city centre parks such as the English Garden in Munich.\nIn America, skinny dipping by boys was common. The Dixon, Illinois \"Evening Telegraph\" 1890 published a request: \"for boys swimming in the mill race to be more modest as women felt they can't go down Water Street for fear of seeing them.\"\n\nSwimming was not only a sport for the residents of Victorian East London, Eastern Cape, but due to periodic water shortages, sometimes a necessity. From 1873 the town council promulgated measures to control swimming hours, apparel and especially separate swimming areas for men and women. These regulations were too conservative and constraining for the taste of the residents of this coastal town and for several decades they were the subject of legal battles, or were simply ignored. The dispute was finally settled in 1906 when mixed bathing was permitted with the proviso that both men and women should wear suitable swimming costumes.\n\nAmerican president Theodore Roosevelt describes nude swims in the Potomac with his \"tennis cabinet\" in his \"Autobiography\": \"If we swam the Potomac, we usually took off our clothes.\n\nErnest Thompson Seton describes skinny dipping as one of the first activities of his Woodcraft Indians, a forerunner of the Scout movement, in 1902.\n\nIn a 1909 New York elementary schools swimming competition, boys in the 80 lb division competed naked; their bathing suits slowed them down.\n\nThe Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) was set up in 1842 with a mission to provide an education program and healthy sports to young men. The YMCA was responsible for providing swimming classes to countless numbers of American boys and teenagers. This included swimming in indoor pools. Swimming trunks were not permitted in their pools. In Lincoln, Nebraska in 1958, for example, learners were told just to bring a towel and not to bring trunks. In Sheboygan, Wisconsin in 1954, the Recreation Department reported that 404 youngsters had attended an 11-day swimming course where the boys were unhampered by bathing suits. When the YMCA began to admit females in the early 1960s, the wearing of bathing suits became a requirement.\n\nIn Portland, Ohio in 1915, all boys and girls wore torso swimming costumes. The problem was that woollen bathing suits were unhealthy and harboured the cholera bacteria and typhus bacteria which infected the water in the pool. Both the cholera and the typhus diseases could be fatal. As a precaution, the pool was completely drained every 10 days. In 1910, sand filtration was introduced which reduced the number of bacteria present, but the safest way was not to wear woollen suits, and this approach was endorsed by the American Public Health Association (APHA). American high school and junior high school swimming in many states had policies that followed APHA guidelines. The guideline were published every three years, and from 1926 until 1962 every edition recommended nude swimming. In other states, all boys and girls bathed in clothes. The 1937 Administration of Health and Physical Recreation training manual stated, \"Nude bathing for boys is practiced universally, in a few schools girls may swim nude and this is the most sanitary method.\"\n\nNude female swimming was not allowed in most schools, both for modesty reasons and because it would be awkward to accommodate menstruating girls. The Detroit public schools briefly allowed nude female swimming in 1947; this policy was revoked after three weeks due to protests from parents.\n\nAlthough chlorination was effective, it was difficult to manage the pH of the water, as chlorine could cause burning of the skin if wrongly administered. A simple test was devised in 1939 which made chlorination practical. World War II delayed its introduction until the early 1950s. The October 16, 1950 \"Life\" magazine had a large illustration of boys swimming together in the indoor pool of New Trier High School in Winnetka, Illinois, and the caption did not mention they were naked. The practice continued in the states that had a tradition of nude swimming.\n\nDuring the 1960s, as baby boomers were entering high school, there was a growing backlash against enforced nude male swimming and by the 1970s, it had largely been phased out along with gender integration of pools. Male students protested the double standard of being required to go nude due to wool lint from swimwear clogging pool filters when it did not appear to cause a problem with girls' swim costumes. In any case, rising living standards post-World War II created a greater desire for privacy.\n\nIn some English schools, Manchester Grammar School for example, nude swimming was compulsory until the 1970s. It was discontinued when it started admitting girls. This was also the case for some American high schools. and junior high schools and in some summer camps. John Torney in his 1937 article on Swimming and Lifesaving programs for summer camps wrote that \"boys and girls enjoy the thrill of swimming nude and costumes can be discarded for a night swim\". A 2006 Roper poll showed that 25% of all American adults had been skinny dipping at least once, and that 74% believed nude swimming should be tolerated at accepted locations.\n\nIn the United States, states, counties and municipalities may enact their own dress codes, and many have. According to an Australian magazine, \"In the early 1900s, women were expected to wear cumbersome dress and pantaloon combinations when swimming. In 1907, at the height of her popularity, Annette Kellerman was arrested on Revere Beach, Massachusetts, for indecency – she was wearing one of her fitted one-piece costumes.\" In 1919, Ethelda Bleibtrey was arrested for nude swimming at the beach of Manhattan—she removed her stockings at a pool where it was forbidden to bare \"the lower female extremities for public bathing\". The subsequent public support for Bleibtrey led to the abandonment of stockings as a conventional element in women’s swimwear.\n\nThe 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden were the first Olympic Games to feature female swimming as an event and the costumes used, which became translucent when wet, caused somewhat of a scandal. The United States protested that the event was \"obscene\" and refused to send a female swim team to the Olympics. Eventually an American women's swim team participated in the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium.\n\nNude swimming is fairly common in rural areas, where unexpected visitors are less likely. However, in some places even that type of swimming is prohibited by law. There is no federal law against nudity. Nude beaches, such as Baker Beach in San Francisco, operate within federal park lands in California. However, under a provision called \"concurrent jurisdiction\", federal park rangers may enforce state and local laws, or invite local authorities to do so. Today, many swimmers in the United States confine nude swimming to private situations due to concerns about attitudes to public nudity.\n\nSince the early 20th century, the naturist movement has developed in western countries that seeks a return to non-sexual nakedness when swimming and during other appropriate activities. In some places around the world, nude beaches have been set aside for people who choose to engage in normal beach activities in the nude.\n\nIn many countries today nude swimming mostly takes place at nude beaches, naturist facilities, private swimming pools, or secluded or segregated public swimming areas. Some Western countries, such as Canada and the United Kingdom, have no laws prohibiting nude swimming in public areas, but some countries around the world strictly enforce various laws against public nudity, including nude swimming. Some jurisdictions which maintain laws against public nudity may turn a blind eye to incidents of skinny dipping depending on the circumstances, as police officers on the spot decline to make arrests.\n\nConflicts have arisen in the United States on federally-designated beaches, which are nevertheless patrolled by local police, since there is no federal law against nudity in these areas, but there may well be local ones. Skinny-dippers generally deal with this by keeping an eye out for local patrols, who generally do not go out of their way to find violators, as long as it is not flagrant.\n\nIn Germany nude bathing is more widespread than many other countries. A 2014 study revealed Germans (28%) were the most likely of all nations surveyed to have been nude at a beach.\n\nThe largest skinny dip was achieved during an event organized by Deirdre Featherstone(Ireland). The official figure is 2,505 women and was achieved on 9 June 2018 in Wicklow, Ireland. The event was organized to raise awareness on breast cancer and to raise funds for Aoibheann’s Pink Tie\n, a National Children’s Cancer Charity. \n\nNude swimming was a common subject of Old Masters – painters from before the 1800s – and Romantic oil paintings, usually bucolic or in a mythological or historical settings. For example, Swedish painters Georg Pauli and Anders Zorn painted a number of nude swimming scenes.\n\nLate in the 19th Century painters started to render nude boys and men in a realistic setting. Daumier's \"Bathers\" shows youths clumsily hauling off their clothes (a symbol of repression) and a naked short stocky youth stepping cautiously into the water that represents freedom. Seurat's \"Bathers Asnières\" uses similar symbolism to show the bathers removing their every day identities to step into the momentary sunlight.\n\nThe bathers in Thomas Eakins' \"The Swimming Hole\" each represent different stage in the artist's life. He prepared for this canvas by taking multiple photographs of his students frolicking at this location-and overall portrays a happy physical unselfconsciousness seen through the perspective of age-a nostalgia for youth. By the 1880s this nostalgia for youth was a veneer carefully disguising a latent homosexuality. In contrast there were poets and painters who would contrast free young beauty of bodies in the water with the approaching grind of maturity and responsibility. Henry Tuke loved to paint naked bathers in a soft idealised style deliberately avoiding overt sexuality.\n\nCezanne's monumental male bathers derive from memories of a happy childhood rather than direct observation. This was described by his friend Emile Zola as a time when \"they were possessed with the joys of plunging (naked) into the deeper pools where the waters flowed, or spending the days stark naked in the sun, drying them selves on the burning sand, diving in once more to live in the river...\"\n\nIn later periods, depictions of nude swimming scenes became rarer, but more likely to depict straightforward contemporary scenes. The cover of the August 19, 1911 edition of the \"Saturday Evening Post\" had a Leyendecker painting of three boys; the cover of the June 4, 1921 edition had Norman Rockwell's painting , depicting boys in various states of undress escaping from the local authorities.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5447139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447139", "title": "Nzappa zap", "text": "Nzappa zap\n\nThe Nzappa zap (also referred to as zappozap, kasuyu) is a traditional weapon from the Congo similar to an axe or hatchet. It has an ornate wrought-iron blade connected to a club-like wooden handle, often clad in copper, bronze or brass.\n\nLargely ceremonial, it can be used much like the American tomahawk, both thrown for short distances and as a melee weapon in hand-to-hand combat. It differs from the usual axe style, in that the blade mounts to looping prongs that affix to the shaft.\n\nThis weapon derives from the upper Congo region and was used as a brutal weapon in battle. It was usually crafted by the Nsapo people who thrived industrially from iron and copper. The axe is forged from Iron while the handle is made of wood covered in copper. This weapon yields a lot of damage when used mainly in close combat and sometimes directly thrown. The Nzappa Zap has a club like handle that flares at the base and has a rounded head. The blade is also attached through a post extending from the handle. Nzappa Zaps sometimes has two or three human faces in the iron head. The axe is ceremonial and usually kept and carried by the chiefs of the Songye. The weapon holds power and significance among the people. The axe was used in battle, as a status symbol, and also as a form of currency in trade. \n\nThe weapon is the etymological base of the name \"Zappo Zap\", an infamous Songye tribal group once active in the Congo Free State.\n"}
{"id": "35835705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35835705", "title": "Outline of the history of Western civilization", "text": "Outline of the history of Western civilization\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the history of Western civilization, a record of the development of human civilization beginning in Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome, and generally spreading westwards.\n\nAncient Greek science, philosophy, democracy, architecture, literature, and art provided a foundation embraced and built upon by the Roman Empire as it swept up Europe, including the Hellenic world in its conquests in the 1st century BC. From its European and Mediterranean origins, Western civilization has spread to produce the dominant cultures of modern North America, South America, and much of Oceania, and has had immense global influence in recent centuries.\n\nIn philosophy, first civilizations had made numerous powerful contributions to western civilization. Greek philosophers were awesome thinkers who were resolved to look for truth to a specific subject or question regardless of where it drove them. The well-known philosophers trusted that life was not worth living unless it was inspected and the truth about existence was searched out. With a specific end goal to solve problems in life, Socrates created a method for taking care of these problems called the Socratic Method. On the planet today this method is generally known as the Scientific method and is utilized broadly in the region of science. Plato additionally had numerous equitable thoughts which he communicated through his book. Ultimately, Aristotle accepted unequivocally that human reason was critical. These thoughts alongside the thoughts of human thinking, norms for justice, and a majority rules system are as yet utilized as a part of Western civilization. The Western world, also known as the West and the Occident, is a term referring to different nations depending on the context.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45392573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45392573", "title": "Palatalization (sound change)", "text": "Palatalization (sound change)\n\nIn linguistics, palatalization is a sound change that either results in a palatal or palatalized consonant or a front vowel, or is triggered by one of them. Palatalization involves change in the place or manner of articulation of consonants, or the fronting or raising of vowels. In some cases, palatalization involves assimilation or lenition.\n\nAn example of palatalization in English is one of the possible pronunciations of \"did you?\" as rather than \n\nPalatalization is sometimes an example of assimilation. In some cases, it is triggered by a palatal or palatalized consonant or front vowel, but in other cases, it is not conditioned in any way.\n\nPalatalization changes place of articulation or manner of articulation of consonants. It may add palatal secondary articulation or change primary articulation from velar to palatal or alveolar, alveolar to postalveolar.\n\nIt may also cause a consonant to change its manner of articulation from stop to affricate or fricative. The change in the manner of articulation is a form of lenition. However, the lenition is frequently accompanied by a change in place of articulation.\n\nPalatalization of velar consonants commonly causes them to front, and apical and coronal consonants are usually raised. In the process, stop consonants are often spirantised except for palatalized labials.\n\nPalatalization, as a sound change, is usually triggered only by mid and close (high) front vowels and the semivowel . The sound that results from palatalization may vary from language to language. For example, palatalization of may produce , etc. A change from to may pass through as an intermediate state, but there is no requirement for that to happen.\n\nIn some Zoque languages, does not palatalize velar consonants but it turns alveolars into palato-alveolars. In the Nupe language, and are palatalized both before front vowels and , while velars are only palatalized before front vowels. In Ciluba, palatalizes only a preceding , , or . In some variants of Ojibwe, velars are palatalized before , but apicals are not. In Indo-Aryan languages, dentals and are palatalized when occurring in clusters before , but velars are not.\n\nPalatalization sometimes refers to vowel shifts, the fronting of a back vowel or raising of a front vowel. The shifts are sometimes triggered by a nearby palatal or palatalized consonant or by a high front vowel. The Germanic umlaut is a famous example.\n\nA similar change is reconstructed in the history of Old French in which Bartsch's law turned open vowels into or after a palatalized velar consonant. If it was true for all open vowels in Old French, it would explain the palatalization of velar plosives before .\n\nIn Erzya, a Uralic language, the open vowel is raised to near-open after a palatalized consonant, as in the name of the language, .\n\nIn Russian, the back vowels are fronted to central , and the open vowel is raised to near-open , near palatalized consonants. The palatalized consonants also factor in how unstressed vowels are reduced.\n\nPalatalization is sometimes unconditioned or spontaneous, not triggered by a palatal or palatalized consonant or front vowel.\n\nIn southwestern Romance, clusters of a voiceless obstruent with were palatalized once or twice. This first palatalization was unconditioned. It resulted in a cluster with a palatal lateral , a palatal lateral on its own, or a cluster with a palatal approximant . In a second palatalization, the was affricated to or spirantized to .\n\nIn the Western Romance languages, Latin was palatalized once or twice. The first palatalization was unconditioned: the was vocalized to or spirantized to . In a second palatalization, the was affricated to :\n\nIn many dialects of English, the back vowel is fronted to near-back , central , or front . This vowel shift is unconditioned, happening in all cases, and not triggered by another sound.\n\nA similar change is reconstructed for Ancient Greek. In the Attic dialect before the Classical period, the back vowels were fronted to . During the Koine or Medieval Greek period, they were unrounded to , and they finally merged as short , the pronunciation that they have in Modern Greek.\n\nWhen palatalization is assimilatory or triggered by a consonant or vowel, it is triggered by a following sound (anticipatory) or by a preceding sound (progressive).\n\nPalatalization may result in a phonemic split, a historical change by which a phoneme becomes two new phonemes over time through palatalization.\n\nOld historical splits have frequently drifted since the time they occurred and may be independent of current phonetic palatalization. The lenition tendency of palatalized consonants (by assibilation and deaffrication) is important. According to some analyses, the lenition of the palatalized consonant is still a part of the palatalization process itself.\n\nIn Japanese, allophonic palatalization affected the dental plosives and , turning them into alveolo-palatal affricates and before , romanized as ⟨ch⟩ and ⟨j⟩ respectively. Japanese has, however, recently regained phonetic and from loanwords, and the originally-allophonic palatalization has thus become lexical. A similar change has also happened in Polish and Belarusian. That would also be true about most dialects of Brazilian Portuguese but for the strong phonotactical resistancy of its native speakers that turn dental plosives into post-alveolar affricates even in loanwords: McDonald's .\n\nFor example, Votic has undergone such a change historically, \"*keeli\" → 'language', but there is currently an additional distinction between palatalized laminal and non-palatalized apical consonants. An extreme example occurs in Spanish, whose palatalized ('soft') has ended up as from a long process where Latin became palatalized to (Late Latin) and then affricated to (Proto-Romance), deaffricated to (Old Spanish), devoiced to (16th century), and finally retracted to a velar, giving (c. 1650). (See History of the Spanish language and Phonological history of Spanish coronal fricatives for more information).\n\nPalatalization has played a major role in the history of English, and of other languages and language groups throughout the world, such as the Romance, Greek, Slavic, Baltic, Finnic, Swedish, Norwegian, Mordvinic, Samoyedic, Iranian, Indo-Aryan, Goidelic, Korean, Japanese, Chinese, Albanian, Arabic, and Micronesian languages.\n\nIn Anglo-Frisian, the language that gave rise to English and the Frisian languages, the velar stops and the consonant cluster were palatalized in certain cases and became the sounds , , , and . Many words with Anglo-Frisian palatalization survive in Modern English, and the palatalized sounds are typically spelled , , , and in Modern English.\n\nPalatalization only occurred in certain environments, and so it did not apply to all words from the same root. This is the origin of some alternations in cognate words, such as \"speak\" and \"speech\" , \"cold\" and \"chill\" , \"burrow\" and \"bury\" , \"dawn\" and \"day\" . Here originates from unpalatalized and from unpalatalized .\n\nSome English words with palatalization have unpalatalized cognates from the Northumbrian dialect and from Old Norse, such as \"shirt\" and \"skirt\" , \"church\" and \"kirk\" , \"ditch\" and \"dike\" . German only underwent palatalization of: \"cheese\" and ; \"lie\" and \"lay\" , and ; \"fish\" and .\n\nThe pronunciation of as with a hard is a spelling pronunciation, since the actual Old English pronunciation gave rise to \"witch\".\n\nLater in English, another palatalization called yod-coalescence occurred. Alveolar stops and affricates were palatalized before the palatal approximant so that the clusters , , and changed into , , and respectively, frequently occurring with clusters that would be considered to span a syllable boundary. Yod-coalescence in stressed syllables, such as in \"tune\" and \"dune\", occurs in Australian, Cockney, Estuary English, Hiberno-English (some speakers), Newfoundland English, South African English, and to a certain extent in New Zealand English and Scottish English (many speakers). This can lead to additional homophony; for instance, \"dew\" and \"due\" come to be pronounced the same as \"Jew\".\n\nIn certain varieties—such as Australian English, South African English, and New Zealand English— and in stressed syllables can coalesce into and , respectively. In Australian English for example, \"assume\" is pronounced by some speakers. Furthermore, some speakers may palatalize the to a when it comes before the cluster /tr/, so words like \"student\" and \"stress\" would be pronounced and , respectively, with the former pronunciation being less common among North American speakers. According to author Wayne P. Lawrence, \"this phonemic change seems to be neither dialectal nor regional.\"\n\nOthers include the following:\n\nSome modern Arabic varieties developed palatalization of ك (turning into , , , or ) and ق (turning into or ), usually when adjacent to front vowel, though these palatalizations also occurred in other environments as well. These two palatalizations occur in a variety of dialects, including Iraqi, rural Palestinian varieties, a number of Gulf Arabic dialects, such as Kuwaiti, Qatari, Bahraini, and Emarati, as well as others in the Arab peninsula like Najdi, the southern dialects of Saudi Arabia, and various Bedouin dialects. Examples:\n\n\nPalatalization occurs in the pronunciation of the second person feminine singular pronoun in those dialects. For instance :\n\nClassical Arabic ('your [f.] eye') is pronounced:\n\n\nWhile these dialects would pronounce ('your [m.] eye') as , most other urban dialects would say (to a male) and (to a female).\n\nAssyrian Neo-Aramaic features the palatalization of kaph (turning into ), taw (turning into ) and gimel (turning into ), albeit in some dialects only and seldom in the standardized version of the language.\n\nThe Romance languages developed from Vulgar Latin, the colloquial form of Latin spoken in the Roman Empire. Various palatalizations occurred during the historical development of the Romance languages. Some groups of the Romance languages underwent more palatalizations than others. One palatalization affected all groups, some palatalizations affected most groups, and one affected only a few groups.\n\nIn Gallo-Romance, Vulgar Latin * became * very early, with the subsequent deaffrication and some further developments of the vowel. For instance:\n\nEarly English borrowings from French show the original affricate, as \"chamber\" \"(private) room\" < Old French < Vulgar Latin ; compare French \"room\".\n\nMouillé (, \"moistened\") is a term for palatal consonants in the Romance languages. Palatal consonants in the Romance languages developed from or by palatalization.\n\n\"L\" and \"n mouillé\" have a variety of origins in the Romance languages. In these tables, letters that represent or used to represent or are bolded. In French, merged with in pronunciation in the 18th century; in many dialects of Spanish, has merged with . Romanian formerly had both and , but both have merged with : > > Romanian \"vineyard\"; > > Romanian \"woman\".\n\nIn certain Indo-European language groups, the reconstructed \"palato-velars\" of Proto-Indo-European () were palatalized into sibilants. The language groups with and without palatalization are called satem and centum languages, after the characteristic developments of the PIE word for \"hundred\":\n\nIn the Slavic languages, two palatalizations took place. Both affected the Proto-Slavic velars . In the first palatalization, the velars before the front vowels and the palatal approximant changed to . In the second palatalization, the velars changed to \"c\", \"dz\" or \"z\", and \"s\" or \"š\" before the Proto-Slavic diphthongs , which must have been monophthongized to by this time.\n\nIn many dialects of Mandarin Chinese, the alveolar sibilants and the velars were palatalized before the medials and merged in pronunciation, yielding the alveolo-palatal sibilants . Alveolo-palatal consonants occur in modern Standard Chinese and are written as in Pinyin. Postal romanization does not show palatalized consonants, reflecting the dialect of the imperial court during the Qing dynasty. For instance, the name of the capital of China was formerly spelled \"Peking\", but is now spelled ' , and \"Tientsin\" and \"Sian\" were the former spellings of ' and \"\" .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47767872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47767872", "title": "Passage (sculpture)", "text": "Passage (sculpture)\n\nPassage is an outdoor 2014 art installation consisting of 38 weathered steel boat sculptures by Bill Will, installed along the MAX Orange Line in the Brooklyn neighborhood of southeast Portland, Oregon, in the United States.\n\nBill Will's \"Passage\" consists of 36 weathered steel boat sculptures installed adjacent to MAX Orange Line tracks along Southeast 17th Avenue between McLoughlin and Powell boulevards. According to TriMet, which began installing the sculptures in March–April 2014, the \"pieces draw on the natural history of the area while celebrating the Portland-Milwaukie light rail transit project's green street improvements in the corridor\". The project's cost was not confirmed in TriMet's announcement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2863180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2863180", "title": "Pre-Code Hollywood", "text": "Pre-Code Hollywood\n\nPre-Code Hollywood refers to the brief era in the American film industry between the widespread adoption of sound in pictures in 1929 and the enforcement of the Motion Picture Production Code censorship guidelines, popularly known as the \"Hays Code\", in mid-1934. Although the Code was adopted in 1930, oversight was poor and it did not become rigorously enforced until July 1, 1934, with the establishment of the Production Code Administration (PCA). Before that date, movie content was restricted more by local laws, negotiations between the Studio Relations Committee (SRC) and the major studios, and popular opinion, than by strict adherence to the Hays Code, which was often ignored by Hollywood filmmakers.\n\nAs a result, some films in the late 1920s and early 1930s depicted or implied sexual innuendo, miscegenation, mild profanity, illegal drug use, promiscuity, prostitution, infidelity, abortion, intense violence, and homosexuality. Strong female characters were ubiquitous in such pre-Code films as \"Female\", \"Baby Face\", and \"Red-Headed Woman\". Gangsters in films like \"The Public Enemy\", \"Little Caesar\", and \"Scarface\" were seen by many as heroic rather than evil. Along with featuring stronger female characters, films examined female subject matters that would not be revisited until decades later in US films. Nefarious characters were seen to profit from their deeds, in some cases without significant repercussions, and drug use was a topic of several films. Many of Hollywood's biggest stars such as Clark Gable, Barbara Stanwyck, Joan Blondell, and Edward G. Robinson got their start in the era. Other stars who excelled during this period, however, like Ruth Chatterton (who decamped to England) and Warren William (the so-called \"king of Pre-Code\", who died in 1948), would wind up essentially forgotten by the general public within a generation.\n\nBeginning in late 1933 and escalating throughout the first half of 1934, American Roman Catholics launched a campaign against what they deemed the immorality of American cinema. This, plus a potential government takeover of film censorship and social research seeming to indicate that movies which were seen to be immoral could promote bad behavior, was enough pressure to force the studios to capitulate to greater oversight.\n\nIn 1922, after some risqué films and a series of off-screen scandals involving Hollywood stars, the studios enlisted Presbyterian elder William H. \"Will\" Hays, a figure of unblemished rectitude, to rehabilitate Hollywood's image. Hays, later nicknamed the motion picture \"Czar\", was paid the then-lavish sum of $100,000 a year (equivalent to more than $1.4 million in 2015 dollars). Hays, Postmaster General under Warren G. Harding and former head of the Republican National Committee, served for 25 years as president of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America (MPPDA), where he \"defended the industry from attacks, recited soothing nostrums, and negotiated treaties to cease hostilities.\" Hollywood mimicked the decision Major League Baseball had made in hiring judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis as League Commissioner the previous year to quell questions about the integrity of baseball in wake of the 1919 World Series gambling scandal; \"The New York Times\" called Hays the \"screen Landis\".\n\nHays introduced a set of recommendations dubbed \"The Formula\" in 1924, which the studios were advised to heed, and asked filmmakers to describe to his office the plots of pictures they were planning. The Supreme Court had already decided unanimously in 1915 in \"Mutual Film Corporation v. Industrial Commission of Ohio\" that free speech did not extend to motion pictures, and while there had been token attempts to clean up the movies before, such as when the studios formed the National Association of the Motion Picture Industry (NAMPI) in 1916, little had come of the efforts.\n\nIn 1929, an American Roman Catholic layman Martin Quigley, editor of the prominent trade paper \"Motion Picture Herald\", and Father Daniel A. Lord, a Jesuit priest, created a code of standards (which Hays liked immensely), and submitted it to the studios. Lord's concerns centered on the effects sound film had on children, whom he considered especially susceptible to their allure. Several studio heads, including Irving Thalberg of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM), met with Lord and Quigley in February 1930. After some revisions, they agreed to the stipulations of the Code. One of the main motivating factors in adopting the Code was to avoid direct government intervention. It was the responsibility of the Studio Relations Committee, headed by Colonel Jason S. Joy, to supervise film production and advise the studios when changes or cuts were required.\n\nThe Code was divided into two parts. The first was a set of \"general principles\" which mostly concerned morality. The second was a set of \"particular applications\" which was an exacting list of items that could not be depicted. Some restrictions, such as the ban on homosexuality or the use of specific curse words, were never directly mentioned but were assumed to be understood without clear demarcation. Miscegenation, the mixing of the races, was forbidden. It stated that the notion of an \"adults-only policy\" would be a dubious, ineffective strategy that would be difficult to enforce. However, it did allow that \"maturer minds may easily understand and accept without harm subject matter in plots which does younger people positive harm.\" If children were supervised and the events implied elliptically, the code allowed what Brandeis University cultural historian Thomas Doherty called \"the possibility of a cinematically inspired thought crime\".\n\nThe Code sought not only to determine what could be portrayed on screen, but also to promote traditional values. Sexual relations outside of marriage could not be portrayed as attractive and beautiful, presented in a way that might arouse passion, nor be made to seem right and permissible. All criminal action had to be punished, and neither the crime nor the criminal could elicit sympathy from the audience. Authority figures had to be treated respectfully, and the clergy could not be portrayed as comic characters or villains. Under some circumstances, politicians, police officers and judges could be villains, as long as it was clear that they were the exception to the rule.\n\nThe entire document contained Catholic undertones and stated that art must be handled carefully because it could be \"morally evil in its effects\" and because its \"deep moral significance\" was unquestionable. The Catholic influence on the Code was initially kept secret. A recurring theme was \"throughout, the audience feels sure that evil is wrong and good is right.\" The Code contained an addendum commonly referred to as the Advertising Code, which regulated film advertising copy and imagery.\n\nOn February 19, 1930, \"Variety\" published the entire contents of the Code and predicted that state film censorship boards would soon become obsolete. However, the men obligated to enforce the code — Jason Joy, who was the head of the Committee until 1932, and his successor, Dr. James Wingate — were seen as generally ineffective. The very first film the office reviewed, \"The Blue Angel\", which was passed by Joy without revision, was considered indecent by a California censor. Although there were several instances where Joy negotiated cuts from films, and there were indeed definite—albeit loose—constraints, a significant amount of lurid material made it to the screen.\n\nJoy had to review 500 films a year using a small staff and little power. The Hays office did not have the authority to order studios to remove material from a film in 1930, but instead worked by reasoning and sometimes pleading with them. Complicating matters, the appeals process ultimately put the responsibility for making the final decision in the hands of the studios themselves.\n\nOne factor in ignoring the Code was the fact that some found such censorship prudish. This was a period in which the Victorian era was sometimes ridiculed as being naïve and backward. When the Code was announced, \"The Nation\", a liberal periodical, attacked it. The publication stated that if crime were never presented in a sympathetic light, then, taken literally, \"law\" and \"justice\" would become the same. Therefore, events such as the Boston Tea Party could not be portrayed. And if clergy were always to be presented positively, then hypocrisy could not be examined either. The \"Outlook\" agreed, and, unlike \"Variety\", predicted from the beginning the Code would be difficult to enforce.\n\nAdditionally, the Great Depression of the 1930s motivated studios to produce films with racy and violent content, which boosted ticket sales. Soon, the flouting of the code became an open secret. In 1931, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" mocked the code, and \"Variety\" followed suit in 1933. In the same year as the \"Variety\" article, a noted screenwriter stated that \"the Hays moral code is not even a joke any more; it's just a memory.\"\n\nAlthough the liberalization of sexuality in American film had increased during the 1920s, the pre-Code era is either dated to the start of the sound film era, or more generally to March 1930, when the Hays Code was first written. Over the protests of NAMPI, New York became the first state to take advantage of the Supreme Court's decision in \"Mutual Film vs. Ohio\" by instituting a censorship board in 1921. Virginia followed suit the next year, and eight individual states had a board by the advent of sound film.\n\nMany of these boards were ineffectual. By the 1920s, the New York stage, a frequent source of subsequent screen material, had topless shows; performances were filled with curse words, mature subject matter, and sexually suggestive dialogue. Early during the sound system conversion process, it became apparent that what might be acceptable in New York would not be so in Kansas. In 1927, Hays suggested studio executives form a committee to discuss film censorship. Irving G. Thalberg of Metro Goldwyn Mayer (MGM), Sol Wurtzel of Fox, and E. H. Allen of Paramount responded by collaborating on a list they called the \"Don'ts and Be Carefuls\", based on items that were challenged by local censor boards, and which consisted of eleven subjects best avoided, and twenty-six to be handled very carefully. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) approved the list, and Hays created the SRC to oversee its implementation. However, there was still no way to enforce these tenets. The controversy surrounding film standards came to a head in 1929.\n\nDirector Cecil B. DeMille was responsible for the increasing discussion of sex in cinema in the 1920s. Starting with \"Male and Female\" (1919), he made a series of films that examined sex and were highly successful. Films featuring Hollywood's original \"It girl\" Clara Bow such as \"The Saturday Night Kid\" (released four days before the October 29, 1929, market crash) highlighted Bow's sexual attractiveness. 1920s stars such as Bow, Gloria Swanson, and Norma Talmadge freely displayed their sexuality in a straightforward fashion.\n\nThe Great Depression presented a unique time for film-making in the United States. The economic disaster brought on by the stock market crash of 1929 changed American values and beliefs in various ways. Themes of American exceptionalism and traditional concepts of personal achievement, self-reliance, and the overcoming of odds lost great currency. Due to the constant empty economic reassurances from politicians in the early years of the Depression, the American public developed an increasingly jaded attitude.\n\nThe cynicism, challenging of traditional beliefs, and political controversy of Hollywood films during this period mirrored the attitudes of many of their patrons. Also gone was the carefree and adventurous lifestyle of the 1920s. \"After two years the Jazz Age seems as far away as the days before the war\", F. Scott Fitzgerald commented in 1931. In the sense noted by Fitzgerald, understanding the moral climate of the early 1930s is complex. Although films experienced an unprecedented level of freedom and dared to portray things that would be kept hidden for several decades, many in America looked upon the stock market crash as a product of the excesses of the previous decade. In looking back upon the 1920s, events were increasingly seen as occurring in prelude to the market crash. In \"Dance, Fools, Dance\" (1931), lurid party scenes featuring 1920s flappers are played to excess. Joan Crawford ultimately reforms her ways and is saved; less fortunate is William Bakewell, who continues on the careless path that leads to his ultimate self-destruction.\n\nFor \"Rain or Shine\" (1930), Milton Ager and Jack Yellin composed \"Happy Days Are Here Again\". The song was repeated sarcastically by characters in several films such as \"Under Eighteen\" (1931) and \"20,000 Years in Sing Sing\" (1933). Less comical was the picture of the United States' future presented in \"Heroes for Sale\" that same year (1933), in which a hobo looks into a depressing night and proclaims, \"It's the end of America\".\n\n\"Heroes for Sale\" was directed by prolific pre-Code director William Wellman and featured silent film star Richard Barthelmess as a World War I veteran cast onto the streets with a morphine addiction from his hospital stay. In \"Wild Boys of the Road\" (1933), the young man played by Frankie Darrow leads a group of dispossessed juvenile drifters who frequently brawl with the police. Such gangs were common; around 250,000 youths traveled the country by hopping trains or hitchhiking in search of better economic circumstances in the early 1930s.\n\nComplicating matters for the studios, the advent of sound film in 1927 required an immense expenditure in sound stages, recording booths, cameras, and movie-theater sound systems, not to mention the new-found artistic complications of producing in a radically altered medium. The studios were in a difficult financial position even before the market crash as the sound conversion process and some risky purchases of theater chains had pushed their finances near the breaking point. These economic circumstances led to a loss of nearly half of the weekly attendance numbers and closure of almost a third of the country's theaters in the first few years of the depression. Even so, 60 million Americans went to the cinema weekly.\n\nApart from the economic realities of the conversion to sound, were the artistic considerations. Early sound films were often noted for being too verbose. In 1930, Carl Laemmle criticized the wall-to-wall banter of sound pictures, and director Ernst Lubitsch wondered what the camera was intended for if characters were going to narrate all the onscreen action. The film industry also withstood competition from the home radio, and often characters in films went to great lengths to belittle the medium. The film industry was not above using the new medium to broadcast commercials for its projects however, and occasionally turned radio stars into short feature performers to take advantage of their built-in following.\n\nSeething beneath the surface of American life in the Depression was the fear of the angry mob, portrayed in panicked hysteria in films such as \"Gabriel Over the White House\" (1933), \"The Mayor of Hell\" (1933), and \"American Madness\" (1932). Massive wide shots of angry hordes, comprising sometimes hundreds of men, rush into action in terrifyingly efficient uniformity. Groups of agitated men either standing in breadlines, loitering in hobo camps, or marching the streets in protest became a prevalent sight during the Great Depression. The Bonus Army protests of World War I veterans on the capital in Washington, D.C., on which Hoover unleashed a brutal crackdown, prompted many of the Hollywood depictions. Although social issues were examined more directly in the pre-Code era, Hollywood still largely ignored the Great Depression, as many films sought to ameliorate patrons' anxieties rather than incite them.\n\nHays remarked in 1932:\n\nHays and others, such as Samuel Goldwyn, obviously felt that motion pictures presented a form of escapism that served a palliative effect on American moviegoers. Goldwyn had coined the famous dictum, \"If you want to send a message, call Western Union\" in the pre-Code era. However, the MPPDA took the opposite stance when questioned about certain so-called \"message\" films before Congress in 1932, claiming the audiences' desire for realism led to certain unsavory social, legal, and political issues being portrayed in film.\n\nThe length of pre-Code films was usually comparatively short, but that running time often required tighter material and did not affect the impact of message films. \"Employees' Entrance\" (1933) received the following review from Jonathan Rosenbaum: \"As an attack on ruthless capitalism, it goes a lot further than more recent efforts such as \"Wall Street\", and it's amazing how much plot and character are gracefully shoehorned into 75 minutes.\" The film featured pre-Code megastar Warren William (later dubbed \"the king of Pre-Code\"), \"at his magnetic worst\", playing a particularly vile and heartless department store manager who, for example, terminates the jobs of two long-standing male employees, one of whom commits suicide as a result. He also threatens to fire Loretta Young's character, who pretends to be single to stay employed, unless she sleeps with him, then attempts to ruin her husband after learning she is married.\n\nFilms that stated a position about a social issue were usually labeled either \"propaganda films\" or \"preachment yarns\". In contrast to Goldwyn and MGM's definitively Republican stance on social issue films, Warner Brothers, led by New Deal advocate Jack L. Warner, was the most prominent maker of these types of pictures and preferred they be called \"Americanism stories\". Pre-Code historian Thomas Doherty has written that two recurring elements marked the so-called preachment yarns. \"The first is the exculpatory preface; the second is the Jazz Age prelude.\" The preface was essentially a softened version of a disclaimer that intended to calm any in the audience who disagreed with the film's message. The Jazz Age prelude was almost singularly used to cast shame on the boisterous behavior of the 1920s.\n\n\"Cabin in the Cotton\" (1932) is a Warner Bros. message film about the evils of capitalism. The film takes place in an unspecified southern state where workers are given barely enough to survive and taken advantage of by being charged exorbitant interest rates and high prices by unscrupulous landowners. The film is decidedly anti-capitalist; however, its preface claims otherwise: In the end, however, the planters admit their wrongdoing and agree to a more equitable distribution of capital.\n\nThe avaricious businessman remained a recurring character in pre-Code cinema. In \"The Match King\" (1932), Warren William played an industrialist based on real-life Swedish entrepreneur Ivar Kreuger, himself nicknamed the \"Match King\", who attempts to corner the global market on matches. William's vile character, Paul Kroll, commits robbery, fraud, and murder on his way from a janitor to a captain of industry. When the market collapses in the 1929 crash, Kroll is ruined and commits suicide to avoid imprisonment. William played another unscrupulous businessman in \"Skyscraper Souls\" (1932): David Dwight, a wealthy banker who owns a building named after himself that is larger than the Empire State Building. He tricks everyone he knows into poverty to appropriate others' wealth. He is ultimately shot by his secretary (Verree Teasdale), who then ends the film and her own life by walking off the roof of the skyscraper.\n\nAmericans' mistrust and dislike of lawyers was a frequent topic of dissection in social problem films such \"Lawyer Man\" (1933), \"State's Attorney\", and \"The Mouthpiece\" (1932). In films such as \"Paid\" (1930), the legal system turns innocent characters into criminals. The life of Joan Crawford's character is ruined and her romantic interest is executed so that she may live free, although she is innocent of the crime for which the district attorney wants to convict her. Religious hypocrisy was addressed in such films as \"The Miracle Woman\" (1931), starring Barbara Stanwyck and directed by Frank Capra. Stanwyck also portrayed a nurse and initially reluctant heroine who manages to save, via unorthodox means, two young children in danger from nefarious characters (including Clark Gable as a malevolent chauffeur) in \"Night Nurse\" (1931).\n\nMany pre-Code films dealt with the economic realities of a country struggling to find its next meal. In \"Blonde Venus\" (1932), Marlene Dietrich's character resorts to prostitution to feed her child, and Claudette Colbert's character in \"It Happened One Night\" (1934) gets her comeuppance for throwing a tray of food onto the floor by later finding herself without food or financial resources. Joan Blondell's character in \"Big City Blues\" (1932) reflects that as a chorus girl she regularly received diamonds and pearls as gifts, but now must content herself with a corned beef sandwich. In \"Union Depot\" (1932), Douglas Fairbanks Jr. puts a luscious meal as the first order of business on his itinerary after coming into money.\n\nGiven the social circumstances, politically oriented social problem films ridiculed politicians and portrayed them as incompetent bumblers, scoundrels, and liars. In \"The Dark Horse\" (1932), Warren William is again enlisted, this time to get an imbecile, who is accidentally in the running for Governor, elected. The candidate wins the election despite his incessant, embarrassing mishaps. \"Washington Merry-Go-Round\" portrayed the state of a political system stuck in neutral. Columbia Pictures nearly released the film with a scene of the public execution of a politician as the climax before deciding to cut it.\n\nCecil B. DeMille released \"This Day and Age\" in 1933, and it stands in stark contrast to his other films of the period. Filmed shortly after DeMille had completed a five-month tour of the Soviet Union, \"This Day and Age\" takes place in America and features several children torturing a gangster who got away with the murder of a popular local shopkeeper. The youngsters are seen lowering the gangster into a vat of rats when the police arrive, and their response is to encourage the youths to continue this. The film ends with the youngsters taking the gangster to a local judge and forcing the magistrate to conduct a trial in which the outcome is never in doubt.\n\nThe need for strong leaders who could take charge and steer America out of its crisis is seen in \"Gabriel Over the White House\" (1933), about a benevolent dictator who takes control of the United States. Walter Huston stars as a weak-willed, ineffectual president (likely modeled after Hoover) who is inhabited by the archangel Gabriel upon being knocked unconscious. The spirit's behavior is similar to that of Abraham Lincoln. The president solves the nation's unemployment crisis and executes an Al Capone-type criminal who has continually flouted the law.\n\nDictators were not just glorified in fiction. Columbia's \"Mussolini Speaks\" (1933) was a 76-minute paean to the Fascist leader, narrated by NBC radio commentator Lowell Thomas. After showing some of the progress Italy has made during Il Duce's 10-year reign, Thomas opines, \"This is a time when a dictator comes in handy!\" The film was viewed by over 175,000 jubilant people during its first two weeks at the cavernous Palace Theater in Albany, New York.\n\nThe election of Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR) in 1932 quelled the public affection for dictators. As the country became increasingly enthralled with FDR, who was featured in countless newsreels, it exhibited less desire for alternative forms of government. Many Hollywood films reflected this new optimism. \"Heroes for Sale\", despite being a tremendously bleak and at times anti-American film, ends on a positive note as the New Deal appears as a sign of optimism. When \"Wild Boys of the Road\" (1933), directed by William Wellman, reaches its conclusion, a dispossessed juvenile delinquent is in court expecting a jail sentence. However the judge lets the boy go free, revealing to him the symbol of the New Deal behind his desk, and tells him \"[t]hings are going to be better here now, not only here in New York, but all over the country.\" A box-office casualty of this hopefulness was \"Gabriel Over the White House\", which entered production during the Hoover era malaise and sought to capitalize on it. By the time the film was released on March 31, 1933, FDR's election had produced a level of hopefulness in America that rendered the film's message obsolete.\n\nAdolf Hitler's rise to power in Germany and his regime's anti-Semitic policies significantly affected American pre-Code filmmaking. Although Hitler had become unpopular in many parts of the United States, Germany was still a voluminous importer of American films and the studios wanted to appease the German government. The ban on Jews and negative portrayals of Germany in the Fatherland even led to a significant reduction in work for Jews in Hollywood until after the end of World War II. As a result, only two social problem films released by independent film companies addressed the mania in Germany during the pre-Code era (\"Are We Civilized?\" and \"Hitler's Reign of Terror\").\n\nIn 1933, Herman J. Mankiewicz and producer Sam Jaffe announced they were working on a picture, to be titled \"Mad Dog of Europe\", which was intended to be a full-scale attack on Hitler. Jaffe had quit his job at RKO Pictures to make the film. Hays summoned the pair to his office and told them to cease production as they were causing needless headaches for the studios. Germany had threatened to seize all the properties of the Hollywood producers in Germany and ban the import of any future American films.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the United States was still primarily a rural country, especially in self-identity. D. W. Griffith's \"The Musketeers of Pig Alley\" (1912) is one of the earliest American films to feature urban organized crime. Prohibition's arrival in 1920 created an environment where anyone who wanted to drink had to consort with criminals, especially in urban areas. Nonetheless, the urban-crime genre was mostly ignored until 1927 when \"Underworld\", which is recognized as the first gangster movie, became a surprise hit.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopedia of Hollywood\" entry on \"Underworld\", \"The film established the fundamental elements of the gangster movie: a hoodlum hero; ominous, night-shrouded city streets; floozies; and a blazing finale in which the cops cut down the protagonist\". Gangster films such as \"Thunderbolt\" (1929), and \"Doorway to Hell\" (1930) were released to capitalize on \"Underworld\"s popularity, with \"Thunderbolt\" being described as \"a virtual remake\" of the film. Other late 1920s crime films investigated the connection between mobsters and Broadway productions in movies such as \"Lights of New York\" (1928), \"Tenderloin\" (1928) and \"Broadway\" (1929).\n\nThe Hays Office had never officially recommended banning violence in any form in the 1920s—unlike profanity, the drug trade or prostitution—but advised that it be handled carefully. New York's censor board was more thorough than that of any other state, missing only around 50 of the country's 1,000 to 1,300 annual releases.\n\nFrom 1927 to 1928, violent scenes removed were those in which a gun was pointed at the camera or \"at or into the body of another character\". Many shots where machine guns were featured, scenes where criminals shot at law enforcement officers, some scenes involving stabbing or knife brandishing (audiences considered stabbings more disturbing than shootings), most whippings, several involving choking, torture, or electrocution, and any scenes which could be considered educational in their depiction of crime methods. Sadistic violence and reaction shots showing the faces of individuals on the receiving end of violence were considered especially sensitive areas. The Code later recommended against scenes showing robbery, theft, safe-cracking, arson, \"the use of firearms\", \"dynamiting of trains, machines, and buildings\", and \"brutal killings\", on the basis that they would be rejected by local censors.\n\nIn the early 1930s, several real-life criminals became celebrities. Two in particular captured the American imagination: Al Capone and John Dillinger. Gangsters like Capone had transformed the perception of entire cities. Capone gave Chicago its \"reputation as the locus classicus of American gangsterdom, a cityscape where bullet-proof roadsters with tommygun-toting hoodlums on running boards careened around State Street spraying fusillades of slugs into flower shop windows and mowing down the competition in blood-spattered garages\". Capone appeared on the cover of \"Time\" magazine in 1930. He was even offered 7-figure sums by two major Hollywood studios to appear in a film but declined.\n\nDillinger became a national celebrity as a bank robber who eluded arrest and escaped confinement several times. He had become the most celebrated public outlaw since Jesse James. His father appeared in a popular series of newsreels giving police homespun advice on how to catch his son. Dillinger's popularity rose so quickly that \"Variety\" joked that \"if Dillinger remains at large much longer and more such interviews are obtained, there may be some petitions circulated to make him our president.\" Hays wrote a cablegram to all the studios in March 1934 mandating that Dillinger not be portrayed in any motion picture.\n\nThe genre entered a new level following the release of \"Little Caesar\" (1931), which featured Edward G. Robinson as gangster Rico Bandello. \"Caesar\", along with \"The Public Enemy\" starring James Cagney as Tom Powers and \"Scarface\" (1932), featuring Paul Muni as Tony Comante, were, by standards of the time, incredibly violent films that created a new type of anti-hero. Nine gangster films were released in 1930, 26 in 1931, 28 in 1932, and 15 in 1933, when the genre's popularity began to subside after the end of Prohibition. The backlash against gangster films was swift. In 1931, Jack Warner announced that his studio would stop making them and that he himself had never allowed his 15-year-old son to see them.\n\n\"Little Caesar\" is generally considered the grandfather of gangster films. After its release, Wingate, who then headed New York's censorship board, told Hays that he was flooded with complaints from people who saw kids in theaters nationwide \"applaud the gang leader as a hero.\" The success of \"Little Caesar\" inspired Fox's \"The Secret Six\" (1931) and \"Quick Millions\" (1931), and Paramount's \"City Streets\" (1931), but the next big Hollywood gangster would come from Warners.\n\nWilliam Wellman's \"The Public Enemy\" (1931) featured James Cagney as Tim Powers. In the notorious \"grapefruit scene\", when Powers' girlfriend (Mae Clarke) angers him during breakfast, he shoves half a grapefruit in her face. Cagney's character behaved even more violently towards women in the gangster film \"Picture Snatcher\" (1933): in one scene, he knocks out an amorous woman whose feelings he does not reciprocate and violently throws her into the backseat of his car. In April 1931, the same month as the release of \"The Public Enemy\", Hays recruited former police chief August Vollmer to conduct a study on the effect gangster pictures had on children. After he had finished his work, Vollmer stated that gangster films were innocuous and even overly favorable in depicting the police. Although Hays used the results to defend the film industry, the New York State censorship board was not impressed, and from 1930 through 1932, removed 2,200 crime scenes from pictures.\nSome critics have named \"Scarface\" (1932) as the most incendiary pre-Code gangster film. Directed by Howard Hawks and starring Paul Muni as Tony Camonte, the film is partially based on the life of Al Capone and incorporates details of Capone's biography into the storyline. The production of \"Scarface\" was troubled from the start. The Hays office warned producer Howard Hughes not to make the film; when it was completed in late 1931, the Hays office demanded numerous changes, including a conclusion where Comante was captured, tried, convicted, and hanged and that the film carry the subtitle \"Shame of a Nation\". Hughes sent the film to numerous state censorship boards, saying he hoped to show that the film was made to combat the \"gangster menace\". After he was unable to get the film past the New York State censor board (then headed by Wingate) even after the changes, Hughes sued the New York board and won, allowing him to release the film in a version close to its intended form. When other local censors refused to release the edited version, the Hays Office sent Jason Joy around to them to assure them that the cycle of gangster films of this nature was ending.\n\n\"Scarface\" provoked outrage mainly because of its unprecedented violence, but also for its shifts of tone from serious to comedic. Dave Kehr, writing in the \"Chicago Reader\", stated that the film blends \"comedy and horror in a manner that suggests Chico Marx let loose with a live machine gun.\" In one scene, Camonte is inside a cafe while a torrent of machine-gun fire from the car of a rival gang is headed his way; when the barrage is over, Camonte picks up one of the newly released tommy guns the gangsters dropped and exhibits childlike wonder and unrestrained excitement over the new toy. Civic leaders became furious that gangsters like Capone (who was also the inspiration for \"Little Caesar\") were being applauded in movie houses all across America. The screenplay, adapted by Ben Hecht who was a journalist in Chicago, contained biographical details for Muni's character in \"Scarface\" that were so obviously taken from Capone, and the detail so close, that it was impossible not to draw the parallels.\n\nOne of the factors that made gangster pictures so subversive was that, in the difficult economic times of the Depression, there already existed the viewpoint that the only way to get financial success was through crime. The \"Kansas City Times\" argued that although adults may not be particularly affected, these films were \"misleading, contaminating, and often demoralizing to children and youth.\" Exacerbating the problem, some cinema theater owners advertised gangster pictures with a singular irresponsibility. Real-life murders were tied into promotions and \"theater lobbies displayed tommy guns and blackjacks\". The situation reached such a nexus that the studios had to ask exhibitors to tone down the gimmickry in their promotions.\n\nPrison films of the pre-Code era often involved men who were unjustly incarcerated, and films set in prisons of the north tended to portray them as a bastion of solidarity against the crumbling social system of the Great Depression. Sparked by the real-life Ohio penitentiary fire on April 21, 1930, in which guards refused to release prisoners from their cells, causing 300 deaths, the films depicted the inhumane conditions inside prisons in the early 1930s. The genre was composed of two archetypes: the prison film and the chain gang film. In the prison film, large hordes of men move about in identical uniforms, resigned to their fate, they live by a well defined code. In the chain gang film, Southern prisoners were subjected to a draconian system of discipline in the blazing outdoor heat, where they were treated terribly by their ruthless captors.\n\nThe prototype of the prison genre was \"The Big House\" (1930). In \"The Big House\", Robert Montgomery plays a squirmy inmate who is sentenced to six years after committing vehicular manslaughter while under the influence. His cell mates are a murderer played by Wallace Beery and a forger played by Chester Morris. The picture features future staples of the prison genre such as solitary confinement, informers, riots, visitations, an escape, and the codes of prison life. The protagonist, Montgomery, ends up being a loathsome character, a coward who will sell out anyone in the prison to get an early release. The film was banned in Ohio, the site of the deadly prison riots that inspired it. \"Numbered Men\", \"The Criminal Code\", \"Shadow of the Law\", \"Convict's Code\", and others, from no less than seven studios, followed. However, prison films mainly appealed to men, and had weak box office performances as a result.\n\nStudios also produced children's prison films that addressed the juvenile delinquency problems of America in the Depression. \"The Mayor of Hell\", for instance, featured kids killing a murderously abusive reform school overseer without retribution.\n\nThe most searing criticism of the American prison system was reserved for the depiction of Southern chain gangs, with \"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\" being by far the most influential.\n\n\"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\", which is based on the true story of Robert E. Burns, is by far the most famous of the early 1930s chain gang films. In the first half of 1931, \"True Detective Mysteries\" magazine had published Burns' work over six issues, and it was released as a book in January 1932. Decorated veteran James Allen (Paul Muni) returns from World War I a changed man, and seeks an alternative to the tedious job that he left behind. He travels the country looking for construction work. His ultimate goal is to become involved in construction planning. Allen follows a hobo he met at a homeless shelter into a cafe, taking him up on his offer of a free meal. When the hobo attempts to rob the eatery, Allen is charged as an accessory, convicted of stealing a few dollars, and sentenced to ten years in a chain gang. The men are chained together and transported to a quarry to break rocks every day. Even when unchained from each other, shackles remain around their ankles at all times. Allen convinces a large black prisoner who has particularly good aim to hit the shackles on his ankles with a sledgehammer to bend them. He removes his feet from the bent shackles, and in a famous sequence, escapes through the woods while being chased by bloodhounds. On the outside he develops a new identity and becomes a respected developer in Chicago. He is blackmailed into marriage by a woman he does not love who finds out his secret. When he threatens to leave her for a young woman he has fallen in love with, she turns him in. His case becomes a cause célèbre, and he agrees to turn himself in under the agreement that he will serve 90 days and then be released. He is tricked however, and not freed at the agreed upon time. This forces him to escape again, and he seeks out the young woman, telling her that they cannot be together because he will always be hunted. The film ends with her asking him how he survives, and his ominous reply from the darkness: \"I steal.\"\n\nAlthough based on reality, \"Chain Gang\" changes the facts slightly to appeal to Depression-era audiences by making Allen's return home one to a country that is struggling economically, even though Burns returned to the roaring twenties. The film's bleak, anti-establishment ending shocked audiences. \"Laughter in Hell\", a 1933 film directed by Edward L. Cahn and starring Pat O'Brien, was inspired in part by \"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\". O'Brien plays a railroad engineer who kills his wife and her lover in a jealous rage, and is sent to prison. The dead man's brother ends up being the warden of the prison and torments O'Brien's character. O'Brien and several others revolt, killing the warden and escaping with his new lover (Gloria Stuart). The film, rediscovered in 2012, drew controversy for its lynching scene in which several black men were hanged. Reports vary if the black men were hanged alongside other white men, or by themselves. \"The New Age\" (an African American weekly newspaper) film critic praised the filmmakers for being courageous enough to depict the atrocities that were occurring in some Southern states.\n\nAs films featuring prurient elements performed well at the box office, after the crackdown on crime films, Hollywood increased its production of pictures featuring the seven deadly sins. In 1932, Warner Bros formed an official policy decreeing that \"two out of five stories should be hot\", and that nearly all films could benefit by \"adding something having to do with ginger.\" Filmmakers (including the shrewd Mae West) began putting in overly suggestive material they knew would never reach theaters in hopes that lesser offenses would survive the cutting-room floor. MGM screenwriter Donald Ogden Stewart said \"[Joy and Wingate] wouldn't want to take out too much, so you would give them five things to take out to satisfy the Hays Office—and you would get away with murder with what they left in.\"\n\nFilms such as \"Laughing Sinners\", \"The Devil's Holiday\", \"Safe in Hell\", \"The Devil is Driving\", \"Merrily We Go to Hell\", \"Laughter in Hell\", and \"The Road to Ruin\" were provocative in their mere titles. Studios marketed their films, sometimes dishonestly, by inventing suggestive tag lines and lurid titles, even going so far as to hold in-house contests for thinking up provocative titles for screenplays. Commonly labeled \"sex films\" by the censors, these pictures offended taste in more categories than just sexuality. According to a \"Variety\" analysis of 440 pictures produced in 1932–33, 352 had \"some sex slant\", with 145 possessing \"questionable sequences\", and 44 being \"critically sexual\". \"Variety\" summarized that \"over 80% of the world's chief picture output was … flavored with bedroom essence.\" Attempts to create films for adults only (dubbed \"pinking\") wound up bringing large audiences of all ages to cinemas.\n\nPosters and publicity photos were often tantalizing. Women appeared in poses and garb not even glimpsed in the films themselves. In some cases actresses with small parts in films (or in the case of Dolores Murray in her publicity still for \"The Common Law\", no part at all) appeared scantily clad. Hays became outraged at the steamy pictures circulating in newspapers around the country. The original Hays Code contained an often-ignored note about advertising imagery, but he wrote an entirely new advertising screed in the style of the Ten Commandments that contained a set of twelve prohibitions. The first seven addressed imagery. They prohibited women in undergarments, women raising their skirts, suggestive poses, kissing, necking, and other suggestive material. The last five concerned advertising copy and prohibited misrepresentation of the film's contents, \"salacious copy\", and the word \"courtesan\".\n\nStudios found their way around the restrictions and published increasingly racy imagery. Ultimately this backfired in 1934 when a billboard in Philadelphia was placed outside the home of Cardinal Dennis Dougherty. Severely offended, Dougherty took his revenge by helping to launch the motion-picture boycott which would later facilitate enforcement of the Code. A commonly repeated theme by those supporting censorship, and one mentioned in the Code itself was the notion that the common people needed to be saved from themselves by the more refined cultural elite.\n\nDespite the obvious attempts to appeal to red-blooded American males, most of the patrons of sex pictures were female. \"Variety\" squarely blamed women for the increase in vice pictures:\n\nPre-Code female audiences liked to indulge in the carnal lifestyles of mistresses and adulteresses while at the same time taking joy in their usually inevitable downfall in the closing scenes of the picture. While gangster films were claimed to corrupt the morals of young boys, vice films were blamed for threatening the purity of adolescent women.\n\nIn pre-Code Hollywood, the sex film became synonymous with women's pictures — Darryl F. Zanuck once told Wingate that he was ordered by Warner Brothers' New York corporate office to reserve 20% of the studio's output for \"women's pictures, which inevitably means sex pictures.\" Vice films typically tacked on endings where the most sin-filled characters were either punished or redeemed. Films explored Code-defying subjects in an unapologetic manner with the premise that an end-reel moment could redeem all that had gone before. The concept of marriage was often tested in films such as \"The Prodigal\" (1931), in which a woman is having an affair with a seedy character, and later falls in love with her brother-in-law. When her mother-in-law steps in at the end of the film, it is to encourage one son to grant his wife a divorce so she can marry his brother, with whom she is obviously in love. The older woman proclaims the message of the film in a line near the end: \"This the twentieth century. Go out into the world and get what happiness you can.\"\n\nIn \"Madame Satan\" (1930), adultery is explicitly condoned and used as a sign for a wife that she needs to act in a more enticing way to maintain her husband's interest. In \"Secrets\" (1933), a husband admits to serial adultery, only this time he repents and the marriage is saved. The films took aim at what was already a damaged institution. During the Great Depression, relations between spouses often deteriorated due to financial strain, marriages lessened, and husbands abandoned their families in increased numbers. Marriage rates continually declined in the early 1930s, finally rising in 1934, the final year of the pre-Code era, and although divorce rates lowered, this is likely because desertion became a more common method of separation. Consequently, female characters, such as Ruth Chatterton's in \"Female\", live promiscuous bachelorette lifestyles, and control their own financial destiny (Chatterton supervises an auto factory) without regret.\n\nIn \"The Divorcee\" (1930), starring Norma Shearer, a wife discovers that her husband (played by Chester Morris), has been cheating on her. In reaction, she decides to have an affair with his best friend (played by Robert Montgomery). When the husband finds out, he decides to leave her. After pleading with him to stay, the wife unleashes her frustrations upon him, and in a moment of inspiration reveals her desire to live a fearless, sexually liberated life without him. According to at least one film historian, this was the motion picture that inspired other films centering upon sophisticated female protagonists, who stayed out late, had affairs, wore revealing gowns, and who basically destroyed the sexual double standard by asserting themselves both within society and in the bedroom. From \"The Divorcee\" onward, there developed \"a trend toward a sophistication in women's pictures that would continue unabated until the end of the Pre-Code era in mid-1934.\n\nOne of the most prominent examples of punishment for immoral transgressions in vice film can be seen in \"The Story of Temple Drake\", based on the William Faulkner novel \"Sanctuary\". In \"Drake\", the title character (played by Miriam Hopkins), a cold, vapid \"party girl\", the daughter of a judge, is raped and forced into prostitution by a backwoods character, and according to pre-Code scholar Thomas Doherty, the film implies that the deeds done to her are in recompense for her immorality. Later, in court, she confesses that she killed the man who raped and kept her. She faints after this confession, upon which her lawyer carries her out, leading to a \"happy ending\". In the RKO film \"Christopher Strong\", Katharine Hepburn plays an aviator who becomes pregnant from an affair with a married man. She commits suicide by flying her plane directly upwards until she breaks the world altitude record, at which point she takes off her oxygen mask and plummets to earth. Strong female characters often ended films as \"reformed\" women, after experiencing situations in which their progressive outlook proved faulty.\n\nFemale protagonists in aggressively sexual vice films were usually of two general kinds: the bad girl or the fallen woman. In so-called \"bad girl\" pictures, female characters profited from promiscuity and immoral behavior. Jean Harlow, an actress who was by all reports a lighthearted, kind person offscreen, frequently played bad girl characters and dubbed them \"sex vultures\".\n\nTwo of the most prominent examples of bad girl films, \"Red-Headed Woman\" and \"Baby Face\", featured Harlow and Stanwyck. In \"Red-Headed Woman\" Harlow plays a secretary determined to sleep her way into a more luxurious lifestyle, and in \"Baby Face\" Stanwyck is an abused runaway determined to use sex to advance herself financially.\n\nIn \"Baby Face\" Stanwyck moves to New York and sleeps her way to the top of Gotham Trust. Her progress is illustrated in a recurring visual metaphor of the movie camera panning ever upward along the front of Gotham Trust's skyscraper. Men are driven mad with lust over her and they commit murder, attempt suicide, and are ruined financially for associating with her before she mends her ways in the final reel. In another departure from post Code films, Stanwyck's sole companion for the duration of the picture is a black woman named Chico (Theresa Harris), whom she took with her when she ran away from home at age 14.\n\n\"Red-Headed Woman\" begins with Harlow seducing her boss Bill LeGendre and intentionally breaking up his marriage. During her seductions, he tries to resist and slaps her, at which point she looks at him deliriously and says \"Do it again, I like it! Do it again!\" They eventually marry but Harlow seduces a wealthy aged industrialist who is in business with her husband so that she can move to New York. Although this plan succeeds, she is cast aside when she is discovered having an affair with her chauffeur, in essence cheating on her paramour. Harlow shoots LeGendre, nearly killing him. When she is last seen in the film, she is in France in the back seat of a limousine with an elderly wealthy gentleman being driven along by the same chauffeur. The film was a boon to Harlow's career and has been described as a \"trash masterpiece\".\n\nCinema classified as \"fallen woman\" films was often inspired by real-life hardships women endured in the early Depression era workplace. The men in power in these pictures frequently sexually harassed the women working for them. Remaining employed often became a question of a woman's virtue. In \"She Had to Say Yes\" (1933), starring Loretta Young, a struggling department store offers dates with its female stenographers as an incentive to customers. \"Employees' Entrance\" was marketed with the tag line \"See what out of work girls are up against these days.\" Joy complained in 1932 of another genre, the \"kept woman\" film, which presented adultery as an alternative to the tedium of an unhappy marriage.\n\nUntil 1934, nudity involving \"civilized\" women, which was understood to mean white women, was generally banned, but permitted with \"uncivilized\" women, which was understood to mean non-white women. Filmmaker Deane Dickason took advantage of this loophole to release a quasi-pornographic documentary \"Virgins of Bali\" in September 1932, which concerns a day in the life of two Balinese teenagers, who are presumably \"uncivilized\". The film's introduction notes that Balinese women were normally topless and only covered their breasts for ceremonial duties; Doherty commented dryly that, \"fortunately\" for Dickason, his film's two \"stars\" rarely performed ceremonial duties. Typical of the film is the first scene where the two girls take a bath in the river while Dickason narrates, talking breathlessly about how the two girls \"bathe their shamelessly nude bronze bodies\". \"Virgins of Bali\", which consisted almost entirely of scenes of Balinese women in various states of undress under the guise of showing what daily life in Bali was like was an immensely popular film with men at the time, and almost single handedly made Bali into a popular tourist destination.\n\nHomosexuals were portrayed in such pre-Code films as \"Our Betters\" (1933), \"Footlight Parade\" (1933), \"Only Yesterday\" (1933), \"Sailor's Luck\" (1933), and \"Cavalcade\" (1933). Although the topic was dealt with much more openly than in the decades that followed, the characterizations of gay and lesbian characters were usually derogatory. Gay male characters were portrayed as flighty with high voices, existing merely as buffoonish supporting characters.\n\nA rare example of a homosexual character not being portrayed in the standard effeminate way, albeit still negatively, was the villain \"Murder Legendre\", played by Bela Lugosi in \"White Zombie\" (1932), the Frenchman who mastered the magical powers of a \"Bokor\" (voodoo sorcerer). Legendre is hired by a wealthy plantation owner Charles Beaumont (Robert Frazer) to turn the woman he desires into a zombie, only to be informed later that Legendre desires him and is going to transform him into a zombie. In films like \"Ladies They Talk About\", lesbians were portrayed as rough, burly characters, but in DeMille's \"The Sign of the Cross\", a female Christian slave is brought to a Roman prefect and seduced in dance by a statuesque lesbian dancer. Fox nearly became the first American studio to use the word \"gay\" to refer to homosexuality, but the SRC made the studio muffle the word in the soundtrack of all footage that reached theaters.\n\nBisexual actress Marlene Dietrich cultivated a cross-gender fan base and started a trend when she began wearing men's suits. She caused a commotion when she appeared at the premiere of \"The Sign of the Cross\" in 1932 in a tuxedo, complete with top hat and cane. The appearance of homosexual characters was at its height in 1933; in that year, Hays declared that all gay male characters would be removed from pictures. Paramount took advantage of the negative publicity Dietrich generated by signing a largely meaningless agreement stating that they would not portray women in male attire.\n\nIn the harsh economic times of the early Depression, films and performers often featured an alienated, cynical, and socially dangerous comic style. As with political films, comedy softened with the election of FDR and the optimism of the New Deal. Characters in the pre-Code era frequently engaged in comedic duels of escalating sexual innuendo. In \"Employee's Entrance\", a woman enters the office of a scoundrel boss who remarks, \"Oh, it's you — I didn't recognize you with all your clothes on.\" Racial stereotypes were usually employed when ethnic characters appeared. Blacks in particular were usually the butt of the wisecrack, never the author. The most acknowledged black comedian was Stepin Fetchit, whose slow-witted comedic character was only meant to be successful in an unintentional manner, with himself as the punchline.\n\nThe New York stage was filled with ribald humor and sexually offensive comedy; when movie producers started to put wisecracks in their sound pictures, they sought New York performers. Popular comics such as the Marx Brothers got their start on Broadway in front of live audiences. Censors complained when they had to keep up with the deluge of jokes in pictures in the early 1930s, some of which were designed to go over their heads. The comic banter of some early sound films was rapid-fire, non-stop, and frequently exhausting for the audience by the final reel.\n\nMae West had already established herself as a comedic performer when her 1926 Broadway show \"Sex\" made national headlines. Tried and convicted of indecency by the New York City District Attorney, she served eight days in prison. West carefully constructed a stage persona and carried it over into her interviews and personal appearances. Despite her voluptuous physique, most of her appeal lay in her suggestive manner. She became a wordsmith in the art of the come-on and the seductive line, and despite her obvious appeal to male audiences, was popular with women as well. Over the cries of the censors, West got her start in the film \"Night After Night\" (1932), which starred George Raft and Constance Cummings, as a Texas Guinan-esque supporting character. She agreed to appear in the film only after producers agreed to let her write her own lines. In West's first line on film, after a hat check girl remarks \"Goodness, what beautiful diamonds\", West replies, \"Goodness had nothing to do with it, dearie.\" Raft, who had wanted Texas Guinan herself for the role that went to West, later wrote, \"In this picture, Mae West stole everything but the cameras.\" She went on to make \"She Done Him Wrong\" in 1933, which became a huge box office hit, grossing $3 million against a $200,000 budget, and then nine months later wrote and starred in \"I'm No Angel\". She became such a success that her career saved Paramount from financial ruin.\n\nThe arrival of sound film created a new job market for writers of screen dialogue. Many newspaper journalists moved to California and became studio-employed screenwriters. This resulted in a series of fast-talking comedy pictures featuring newsmen. \"The Front Page\", later re-made as the much less cynical and more sentimental post-Code \"His Girl Friday\" (1940), was adapted from the Broadway play by Chicago newsmen, and Hollywood screenwriters, Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur. It was based on Hecht's experiences working as a reporter for the \"Chicago Daily Journal\".\n\nTheatrical cartoons were also covered by the Production Code. According to Leonard Maltin: \"In early 1933 a Georgia theater owner wrote to \"Film Daily\": 'The worst kicks we have are on smut in cartoons. They are primarily a kid draw, and parents frequently object to the filth that is put in them, incidentally without helping the comedy. The dirtiest ones are invariably the least funny.'\" Betty Boop thus underwent some of the most dramatic changes after the Code was imposed: \"gone was the garter, the short skirt, the décolletage\".\n\nAs sound pictures became the norm in Hollywood, the \"backstage\" film musical was a natural subject for the new medium. Not only could the studios present singing and dancing to their audiences – many of whom were unlikely to have ever seen a stage musical before – but the Pre-Code film musicals also tended to feature shapely young female chorus \"girls\" wearing skimpy rehearsal clothing which revealed parts of the body which were still not normal to see on the street, and hinted at other parts in a way that normal fashion did not allow. But even if this could be considered to be exploitative use of the female body, the Pre-Code movie musicals were generally not derogatory in their presentation of the physical virtues of their women, but celebratory, with Busby Berkeley's spectacular musical numbers being especially, and wittily, so; Berkeley avoided fetishizing his female performers.\n\nChorus \"boys\", too, were generally well built, healthy-looking, virile specimens, but even so they never got nearly the attention that the women did. As well as these obvious displays of male and female sexual potential – and the flirting and courting that went with it – Pre-Code musicals also featured the energy and vitality of their youthful featured actors, as well as the comedic abilities of the many older character actors in Hollywood, who were often cast as producers, agents, Broadway \"angels\" (financial backers) and stingy rich relatives, and brought a light – if often stereotypical – touch to these films.\n\nSome Pre-Code musicals\n\n\nUnlike silent-era sex and crime pictures, silent horror movies, despite being produced in the hundreds, were never a major concern for censors or civic leaders. When sound horror films were released however, they quickly caused controversy. Sound provided \"atmospheric music and sound effects, creepy-voiced macabre dialogue and a liberal dose of blood-curdling screams\" which intensified its effects on audiences, and consequently on moral crusaders. The Hays Code did not mention gruesomeness, and filmmakers took advantage of this oversight. However, state boards usually had no set guidelines and could object to any material they found indecent. Although films such as \"Frankenstein\" and \"Freaks\" caused controversy when they were released, they had already been re-cut to comply with censors.\n\nComprising the nascent motion picture genres of horror and science fiction, the nightmare picture provoked individual psychological terror in its horror incarnations, while embodying group sociological terror in its science fiction manifestations. The two main types of pre-Code horror pictures were the single monster movie, and films where masses of hideous beasts rose up and attacked their putative betters. \"Frankenstein\" and \"Freaks\" exemplified both genres.\n\nThe pre-Code horror cycle was motivated by financial necessity. Universal in particular buoyed itself with the production of horror hits such as \"Dracula\" (1931) and \"Frankenstein\", then followed those successes up with \"Murders in the Rue Morgue\" (1932), \"The Mummy\" (1932), and \"The Old Dark House\" (1932). Other major studios responded with their own productions. Much like the crime film cycle, however, the intense boom of the horror cycle was ephemeral, and had fallen off at the box office by the end of the pre-Code era.\n\nWhile Joy declared \"Dracula\" \"quite satisfactory from the standpoint of the Code\" before it was released, and the film had little trouble reaching theaters, \"Frankenstein\" was a different story. New York, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts removed the scene where the monster unintentionally drowns a little girl and lines that referenced Dr. Frankenstein's God complex. Kansas, in particular, objected to the film. The state's censor board requested the cutting of 32 scenes, which if removed, would have halved the length of the film.\n\nParamount's \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\" (1931) played to the Freudian theories popular with the audience of its time. Fredric March played the split-personality title character. Jekyll represented the composed super-ego, and Hyde the lecherous id. Miriam Hopkins's coquettish bar singer, Ivy Pierson, sexually teases Jekyll early in the film by displaying parts of her legs and bosom. Joy felt the scene had been \"dragged in simply to titillate the audience.\" Hyde coerces her with the threat of violence into becoming his paramour and beats her when she attempts to stop seeing him. She is contrasted with his wholesome fiancée Muriel (Rose Hobart), whose chaste nature dissatisfies March's baser alter ego. The film is considered the \"most honored of the Pre-Code horror films.\" Many of the graphic scenes between Hyde and Ivy were cut by local censors because of their suggestiveness. Sex was intimately tied to horror in many pre-Code horror movies. In \"Murders in the Rue Morgue\", an adaptation of Edgar Allan Poe's classic tale which has little in common with the source material, Bela Lugosi plays a mad scientist who tortures and kills women, trying to mix human blood with ape blood during his experiments. His prized experiment, an intelligent ape named Erik, breaks into a woman's second-floor apartment window and rapes her.\n\nIn \"Freaks\", director Tod Browning of \"Dracula\" fame helms a picture that depicts a traveling circus populated by a group of deformed carnival freaks. Browning populated the movie with actual carnival sideshow performers including \"midgets, dwarfs, hermaphrodites, Siamese twins, and, most awful, the armless and legless man billed as the 'living torso'\". There is also a group of Pinheads, who are depicted as fortunate in that they are not mentally capable enough to understand that they disgust people. But the truly unsavory characters here are the villains, the circus strongman Hercules and the beautiful high-wire artist Cleopatra, who intends to marry and poison Hans, the midget heir who is enamored of her. At a dinner celebrating their union, one of the freaks dances on the table as they chant \"gooble-gobble, gobble, gobble, one of us, one of us, we accept her, we accept her.\" Disgusted, Cleopatra insults Hans and makes out with Hercules in front of him. When the freaks discover her plot, they exact revenge by mutilating Cleopatra into a freak. Although circus freaks were common in the early 1930s, the film was their first depiction on screen. Browning took care to linger over shots of the deformed, disabled performers with long takes of them including one of the \"living torso\" lighting a match and then a cigarette with his mouth. The film was accompanied by a sensational marketing campaign that asked sexual questions such as \"Do the Siamese Twins make love?\", \"What sex is the half-man half-woman?\", and \"Can a full grown woman truly love a midget?\" Surprisingly, given its reaction to \"Frankenstein\", the state of Kansas objected to nothing in \"Freaks\". However, other states, such as Georgia, were repulsed by the film and it was not shown in many locales. The film later became a cult classic spurred by midnight movie showings, but it was a box-office bomb in its original release.\n\nIn \"Island of Lost Souls\" (1932), an adaptation of H. G. Wells' science-fiction novel, \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\", Charles Laughton plays yet another mad scientist with a God complex. As Moreau, Laughton creates a mad scientist's island paradise, an unmonitored haven where he is free to create a race of man-beasts and Lota, a beast-woman he wants to mate with a normal human male. A castaway lands on his island, providing him an opportunity to see how far his science experiment, the barely clothed, attractive Lota, has come. The castaway discovers Moreau vivisecting one of the beast-men and attempts to leave the island. He runs into the camp of the man-beasts and Moreau beats them back with a whip. The film ends with Lota dead, the castaway rescued, and the man-beasts chanting, \"Are we not men?\" as they attack and then vivisect Moreau. The film has been described as \"a rich man's \"Freaks\"\" due to its esteemed source material. Wells, however, despised the movie for its lurid excesses. It was rejected by 14 local censor boards in the United States, and considered \"against nature\" in Great Britain, where it was banned until 1958.\n\nPre-Code films contained a continual, recurring theme of white racism. In the early 1930s, the studios filmed a series of pictures that aimed to provide viewers a sense of the exotic, an exploration of the unknown and the forbidden. These pictures often imbued themselves with the allure of interracial sex according to pre-Code historian Thomas Doherty. \"At the psychic core of the genre is the shiver of sexual attraction, the threat and promise of miscegenation.\" Films such as \"Africa Speaks\" were directly marketed by referencing interracial sex; moviegoers received small packets labeled \"Secrets\" which contained pictures of naked black women. As portrayals of historic conditions, these movies are of little educational value, but as artifacts that show Hollywood's attitude towards race and foreign cultures they are enlightening. The central point of interest in \"The Blonde Captive\" (1931), a film which depicted a blonde woman abducted by a savage tribe of Aboriginal Australians, was not that she was kidnapped, but that she enjoys living among the tribe. The lack of black characters in films highlights their status in Jim Crow America.\n\nIn \"Bird of Paradise\", a white American man (Joel McCrea) enjoys a torrid affair with a Polynesian princess (Dolores del Río). The film created a scandal when released due to a scene featuring del Río swimming naked. Orson Welles said del Río represented the highest erotic ideal with her performance in the film.\n\nThe white protagonist in \"Tarzan, the Ape Man\" (1932) is the \"King of the [African] Jungle\". Tarzan (Johnny Weissmuller) is a monosyllabic half-naked jungle creature whose attractiveness is derived from his physical prowess; throughout the movie, he saves Jane (Maureen O'Sullivan) from danger and she swoons in his arms. When Jane's father warns her \"[h]e's not like us\", she responds, \"[h]e's white\" as evidence to the contrary. In the racy 1934 sequel, \"Tarzan and His Mate\" (the last word meaning both a status and a biological function), men come from the U.S. with fancy gowns and other accoutrements to woo and clothe the bra-less, barely clothed Jane, again played by O'Sullivan, hoping to lure her away from the savage Tarzan. He detests the fancier clothing and tears it off. The film included a skinny-dipping scene with extensive nudity with a body double standing in for O'Sullivan. Breen, then head of the SRC, objected to the scene, and MGM, the movie's producer, decided to take their case to the appeals review board. The board consisted of the heads of Fox, RKO, and Universal. After watching the scene \"several times\", the board sided with Breen and the MPPDA, and the scene was removed, but MGM still allowed some uncut trailers and a few reels to stay in circulation. MGM marketed the film primarily towards women using taglines such as:\n\nEthnic characters were portrayed against stereotype in \"Massacre\" (1934). The protagonist (Richard Barthelmess) is a Native American who performs in a Wild West Show in full Indian garb, but then slips into a suit and speaks in American slang once the show is over. He has a black butler who is atypically intelligent; his character merely plays dumb by slipping into a stereotypical slow-witted \"negro\" character when it suits him, rather than being genuinely unintelligent.\n\nFilms such as \"The Mask of Fu Manchu\" (1932), \"Shanghai Express\" (1932) and \"The Bitter Tea of General Yen\" (1933), explored the exoticism of the Far East — by using white actors, not Asians, in the lead roles. The white actors frequently looked absurd in yellow-face makeup next to genuine Asians, so the studios would cast all the Asian parts white. Generally, \"Yellow Peril\" stereotypes dominated the portrayal of Asian characters, who were almost always villains. The American scholar Huang Yunte wrote that the character of Charlie Chan, a Chinese-American detective aided by his bumbling, Americanized \"Number One Son\" were virtually the only positive examples of Asian characters in Hollywood in this period. The actress Anna May Wong complained in a 1933 interview about the prevalence of \"Yellow Peril\" stereotypes in Hollywood saying: \"Why is it that the screen Chinese is always the villain? And so crude a villain – murderous, treacherous, a snake in the grass! We are not like that. How could we be, with a civilization that is so many times older than the West?\"\n\nIn \"Fu Manchu\", Boris Karloff plays the evil Chinese mad scientist and gangster Dr. Fu Manchu, who wants to find the sword and mask of Genghis Khan, which will give him the power to control the \"countless hordes\" of Asians, and lead them into battle against the West. Fu is a sexual deviant who engages in ritual torture and has occult powers. Several times, the film seems to suggest Fu is engaged in an incestuous relationship with his equally evil daughter Fah Lo See (Myrna Loy), which plays up a central theme of the \"Yellow Peril\" fears, the alleged abnormal sexuality of Asians. In a scene cut from the film due to its depiction of miscegenation, the film shows Fu's depraved daughter violating one of the chaste good characters. Fu is eventually conquered, but not before he temporarily lays his hand on the sword and proclaims to a vast Pan-Asian army made up of Asians and Muslims: \"Would you have maidens like this [referring to Karen Morley] for your wives? Then conquer and breed! Kill the white man and take his women!\"\n\nThe Chinese warlord General Henry Chang (Warner Oland) in the 1932 film \"Shanghai Express\", who is presented as being not only as Eurasian, but as having a menacing asexuality that places him outside of the conventionally defined world of Western sexuality and racial order, making him as dangerous to the Western characters who he has taken hostage as much as the fact that he is a vicious warlord. Though Chang is Eurasian, he takes pride in his Chinese heritage while rejecting his American heritage, which confirms his Eastern identity. War-torn China, circa 1931 is presented as a \"hell\", which a diverse group of Westerners must travel through on a nightmarish train trip from Beijing to Shanghai, which takes a turn for the worse when the train is hijacked by Chang and his men. The film strongly hints that Chang is bisexual, who not only wants to rape the heroine Shanghai Lily (Marlene Dietrich), but also the hero Captain Donald \"Doc\" Harvey (Clive Brook). When the German opium smuggler Erich Baum (Gustav von Seyffertitz) insults Chang, the result is a scene where the warlord commits a symbolic rape, as the sadistic Chang clearly takes sexual pleasure in branding Baum with a red-hot poker. After he is branded (the symbol of slavery), the once proud Baum becomes notably cowed and submissive towards Chang who in a certain sense now \"owns\" him, which reflected the ultimate Yellow Peril fear of Westerners becoming the slaves of the East and its perverted sexuality. Later on, Chang does actually rape Hui Fei (Anna May Wong). Gina Marchetti suggests that Chang's desire to blind Harvey is not only meant literally, but is also a metaphor for castration, which even under the more permissive Production code in effect in 1932 would have been a taboo subject. In a marked contrast to Chang's twisted sexuality and his \"almost effeminate polish\", the British Army Captain Harvey is a resolutely heterosexual, ruggedly tough soldier with a deep romantic streak who more than amply proved his manliness in the trenches of World War I, presenting a model of Western masculinity and strength.\n\nAt several times, the film hints that Shanghai Lily and Hui Fei are more than best friends, and are in fact engaged in a lesbian relationship, so when the film ends with Lily choosing Harvey as her lover, this serves as a testament to his manly Western sex appeal, which \"redeems\" her from her life as a prostitute. At the same time that \"Shanghai Express\" embraces Yellow Peril stereotypes through the character of Chang, it also to some extent undermines them through the character of Hui, who is shown crying inconsolably after being raped by Chang, which gives her a certain humanity and allows the audience to sympathize with her. Hui is a courtesan who is looked down upon by all Western characters except for her best friend Lily on the account of her race and profession, but she is shown as possessing dignity and a willingness to stand up for herself. Several scenes seemed to suggest that Shanghai Lily and Hui are more attracted to one another then either are to Captain Harvey as the two women exchange longing glances more than once, through this may be suggesting Hui's sexuality is not quite normal (most people in 1932 would considered bi-sexuality to be unnatural). At one point, Hui wears a tight cheongsam dress, which clearly reveal her erect nipples, which definitely captures Lily's interest . The same criticism might be applied to Lily, but the film ends with Lily embracing heterosexual love by kissing Harvey while Hui walks off into the distance alone, sadder as a result of losing her best friend to Harvey and because she was raped, but otherwise unchanged. Finally, it is Hui who saves Harvey in the climax from being blinded/raped/castrated at the hands of Chang by killing Chang; Hui explains the killing as her way of regaining the self-respect that Chang had taken away from her.\n\nFrank Capra's \"The Bitter Tea of General Yen\" was not quite the same type of film: Stanwyck plays a missionary who goes to civil-war-torn China and meets the titular general (played by Nils Asther) after his car kills the driver of her rickshaw. When she is knocked unconscious in a riot, he takes her out of the rabble and onto a train car. She has lurid, horror-themed, symbolic dreams about the General, in which she is both titillated and repulsed by him. The film breaks precedent by developing into an interracial love story, but his army ends in ruins. Yen kills himself at the film's conclusion—by drinking poisoned tea—rather than be captured and killed. Capra adored the script and disregarded the risk of making a film that broke California's (and 29 other states') laws concerning the portrayal of miscegenation. Cinematographer Joseph Walker tested a new technique he created, which he dubbed \"Variable Diffusion\", in filming the picture. This rendered the entire picture in very soft focus.\n\nFrom 1904 until 1967, when television finally killed them off, newsreels preceded films. In the early sound-film era, they lasted around eight minutes and featured highlights and clips of the world's biggest stories. Updated twice a week by the five major studios, they became a highly profitable enterprise: in 1933, newsreels had a total box office take of almost $19.5 million against an outlay of under $10 million. The sound-film era created the narrator; among the first was Graham McNamee, who provided voiceover during the clips, often delivering hackneyed jokes while delineating the on-screen action. Sound newsreel interviews and monologues featured famous subjects unaccustomed to the new medium. These clips changed public perception of important historical figures depending on their elocution, the sound of their previously unheard voices, and their composure in front of the camera. Around 12 \"newsreel theaters\" were soon created around the United States, the most successful being the Embassy Newsreel Theater on Broadway. The Embassy was a 578-seat facility that presented fourteen 45–50 minute programs a day, running from 10 in the morning until midnight. It was noted for its discerning, intellectual audience, many of whom did not attend motion-picture theaters.\n\nThe most gripping news story of the pre-Code era was the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby on the evening of 1 March 1932. As the child was already enormously famous before the kidnapping, the event created a media circus, with news coverage more intense than anything since World War I. Newsreels featuring family photos of the child (the first time private pictures had been \"conscripted for public service\") asked spectators to report any sight of him. On May 12, 1932, the child's body was found less than five miles from the Lindbergh home. Although newsreels covered the most important topics of the day, they also presented human-interest stories (such as the immensely popular coverage of the Dionne quintuplets) and entertainment news, at times in greater detail than more pressing political and social matters.\n\nSome of the images' impact belies their historical accuracy; nearly all ceremonies and public events that were filmed for newsreels in the early sound era were staged, and in some cases even reenacted. For instance: when FDR signed an important bill, a member of his cabinet was called away before the staged reenactment began, so the film shows him absent at the time of the signing, although he had been present. The newsreels of FDR were staged to hide his hobbled gait caused by polio. Caught between the desire to present accurate hard-hitting news stories and the need to keep an audience in the mood for the upcoming entertainment, newsreels often soft-pedaled the difficulties Americans faced during the early years of the Great Depression. FDR in particular received favorable treatment from Hollywood, with all five of the major studios producing pro-FDR shorts by late 1933. These shorts featured some of the studios' lesser contract talent extolling the virtues of FDR created government and social programs. Roosevelt himself was a natural before the camera. The newsreels were instrumental to the success of his initial campaign, and his enduring popularity while in office. He was described by \"Variety\" as the \"Barrymore of the Capital\".\n\nTaking advantage of the existence of 30 years of newsreels archives were filmmakers who made early sound era documentaries. World War I was a popular topic of these pictures and spawned the following documentaries; \"The Big Drive\" (1933), \"World in Revolt\" (1933), \"This is America\" (1933), and \"Hell's Holiday\" (1933). The most prescient pre-Code World War I documentary was aptly called \"The First World War\" (1934) and was the most critically and commercially successful documentary of the era.\n\nFilmmakers also made feature-length documentaries that covered the dark recesses of the globe, including the Amazon rainforest, Native American settlements, the Pacific islands, and everywhere in between. Taking advantage of audiences' voyeuristic impulses, aided by the allowance of nudity in tribal documentaries, the filming of lands untouched by modernity, and the presentation of locales never before filmed, these movies placated Depression era American audiences by showing them lifestyles more difficult than their own. Also captured were Arctic expeditions in films such \"90° South\" and \"With Byrd at the South Pole\", and Sub-Saharan Africa in the safari films of Martin and Osa Johnson, among others.\n\nSome exploitation style documentaries purported to show actual events but were instead staged, elaborate ruses. The most prominent of which was \"Ingagi\" (1931), a film which claimed to show a ritual where African women were given over to gorillas as sex slaves, but instead was mostly filmed in Los Angeles using local blacks in place of natives. Douglas Fairbanks mocked the phoniness of many pre-Code documentaries in his parody \"Around the World in 80 Minutes with Douglas Fairbanks\", in one scene of which he filmed himself wrestling a stuffed tiger doll, then a tiger-skin rug. Opposing these films was the travelogue which was shown before features and served as a short saccharine form of cinematic tourism.\n\nThe Code enumerated a number of key points known as the \"Don'ts\" and \"Be Carefuls\":\nPre-Code films began to draw the ire of various religious groups, some Protestant but mostly a contingent of Roman Catholic crusaders. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, apostolic delegate to the Catholic Church in the United States, called upon Roman Catholics in the United States to unite against the surging immorality of films. As a result, in 1933 the Catholic Legion of Decency, headed by the Reverend John T. McNicholas (later renamed the National Legion of Decency), was established to control and enforce decency standards and boycott films they deemed offensive. They created a rating system for films that started at \"harmless\" and ended at \"condemned\", with the latter denoting a film that was a sin to watch. \n\nThe Legion spurred several million Roman Catholics across the U.S. to sign up for the boycott, allowing local religious leaders to determine which films to protest. Conservative Protestants tended to support much of the crackdown, particularly in the South, where anything relating to the state of race relations or miscegenation could not be portrayed. Although the Central Conference of American Rabbis joined in the protest, it was an uneasy alliance given the heavy presence of Jewish studio executives and producers, which, it was felt, had inspired at least some of the vitriol from the Catholic groups.\n\nHays opposed direct censorship, considering it \"Un-American\". He had stated that although there were some tasteless films in his estimation, working with filmmakers was better than direct oversight, and that, overall, films were not harmful to children. Hays blamed some of the more prurient films on the difficult economic times which exerted \"tremendous commercial pressure\" on the studios more than a flouting of the code. Catholic groups became enraged with Hays and as early as July 1934 were demanding that he resign from his position, which he did not, although his influence waned and Breen took control, with Hays becoming a functionary.\n\nThe Payne Study and Experiment Fund was created in 1927 by Frances Payne Bolton to support a study of the influence of fiction on children. The Payne Fund Studies, a series of eight books published from 1933 to 1935 which detailed five (5) years of research aimed specifically at the cinema's effects on children, were also gaining publicity at this time, and became a great concern to Hays. Hays had said certain pictures might alter \"... that sacred thing, the mind of a child … that clean, virgin thing, that unmarked state\" and have \"the same responsibility, the same care about the thing put on it that the best clergyman or the most inspired teacher would have.\" Despite its initial reception, the main findings of the study were largely innocuous. It found that cinema's effect on individuals varied with age and social position, and that pictures reinforced audiences' existing beliefs. The Motion Picture Research Council (MPRC, led by honorary vice president Sara Delano Roosevelt (mother of President Franklin D. Roosevelt), and executive director the Rev. William H. Short) which funded the study, was not pleased. An \"alarmist summary\" of the study's results written by Henry James Forman appeared in \"McCall's\", a leading women's magazine of the time, and Forman's book, \"Our Movie Made Children\", which became a best-seller, publicized the Payne Fund's results, emphasizing its more negative aspects.\n\nThe social environment created by the publicity of the Payne Fund Studies and religious protests reached such a fever pitch that a member of the Hays Office described it as a \"state of war\". However, newspapers including \"The Plain Dealer\" (Cleveland), \"New Orleans Times Picayune\", \"Chicago Daily News\", \"Atlanta Journal\", \"Saint Paul Dispatch\", the Philadelphia \"Record\" and \"\"Public Ledger\", the \"Boston American\" and New York's \"Daily News\", \"Daily Mirror\", and \"Evening Post\" all lambasted the studies. When discussing the Supreme Court's 1915 decision, film historian Gregory Black argues that the efforts of reformers might have been lessened had \"filmmakers been willing to produce films for specialized audiences (adults only, family, no children) … but the movers and shakers of the industry wanted or needed the largest possible market.\" The most provocative pictures were the most profitable, with the 25% of the motion picture industry's output that was the most sensational supporting the cleaner 75%.\n\nBy 1932, there was an increasing movement for government control. By mid-1934 when Cardinal Dougherty of Philadelphia called for a Catholic boycott of all films, and Raymond Cannon was privately preparing a congressional bill supported by both Democrats and Republicans which would introduce Government oversight, the studios decided they had had enough. They re-organized the enforcement procedures giving Hays and the recently appointed Joseph I. Breen, a devout Roman Catholic, head of the new Production Code Administration (PCA), greater control over censorship. The studios agreed to disband their appeals committee and to impose a $25,000 fine for producing, distributing, or exhibiting any film without PCA approval. Hays had originally hired Breen, who had worked in public relations, in 1930 to handle Production Code publicity, and the latter was popular among Catholics. Joy began working solely for Fox Studios, and Wingate had been bypassed in favor of Breen in December 1933. Hays became a functionary, while Breen handled the business of censoring films.\n\nBreen initially had anti-Semitic prejudices, and was quoted as stating that Jews \"are, probably, the scum of the earth.\" When Breen died in 1965, the trade magazine \"Variety\" stated, \"More than any single individual, he shaped the moral stature of the American motion picture.\" Although the Legion's impact on the more effective enforcement of the Code is unquestionable, its influence on the general populace is harder to gauge. A study done by Hays after the Code was finally fully implemented found that audiences were doing the exact opposite of what the Legion had recommended. Each time the Legion protested a film it meant increased ticket sales; unsurprisingly, Hays kept these results to himself and they were not revealed until many years later. In contrast to big cities, boycotts in smaller towns were more effective and theater owners complained of the harassment they received when they exhibited salacious films.\n\nMany actors and actresses, such as Edward G. Robinson, Barbara Stanwyck, and Clark Gable, continued their careers apace after the Code was enforced. However, others, such as Ruth Chatterton (who decamped to England around 1936) and Warren William (who died relatively young in the 1940s), who excelled during this period, are mostly forgotten today.\n\nCensors like Martin Quigley and Joseph Breen understood that:\n\na private industry code, strictly enforced, is more effective than government censorship as a means of imposing religious dogma. It is secret, for one thing, operating at the pre-production stage. The audience never knows what has been trimmed, cut, revised, or never written. For another, it is uniform—not subject to hundreds of different licensing standards. Finally and most important, private censorship can be more sweeping in its demands, because it is not bound by constitutional due process or free-expression rules—in general, these apply to only the government—or by the command of church-state separation … there is no question that American cinema today is far freer than in the heyday of the Code, when Joe Breen's blue pencil and the Legion of Decency's ever-present boycott threat combined to assure that films adhered to Catholic Church doctrine.\n\nTermed by Breen as \"Compensating moral value\", the maxim was that \"any theme must contain at least sufficient good in the story to compensate for, and to counteract, any evil which relates.\" Hollywood could present evil behavior, but only if it were eradicated by the end of the film, \"with the guilty punished, and the sinner redeemed\".\n\nPre-Code scholar Thomas Doherty summarized the practical effects: \n\nEven for moral guardians of Breen's dedication, however, film censorship can be a tricky business. Images must be cut, dialogue overdubbed or deleted, and explicit messages and subtle implications excised from what the argot of film criticism calls the \"diegesis\". Put simply, the diegesis is the world of the film, the universe inhabited by the characters existing in the landscape of cinema. \"Diegetic\" elements are experienced by the characters in the film and (vicariously) by the spectator; \"nondiegetic\" elements are apprehended by the spectator alone... The job of the motion picture censor is to patrol the diegesis, keeping an eye and ear out for images, languages, and meanings that should be banished from the world of film... The easiest part of the assignment is to connect the dots and connect what is visually and verbally forbidden by name. … More challenging is the work of the textual analysis and narrative rehabilitation that discerns and redirects hidden lessons and moral meanings.\n\nThe censors thus expanded their jurisdiction from what was seen to what was implied in the spectator's mind. In \"The Office Wife\" (1930), several of Joan Blondell's disrobing maneuvers were strictly forbidden and the implied image of the actress being naked just off-screen was deemed too suggestive even though it relied upon the audience using their imaginations, so post-Code releases of the film had scenes which were blurred or rendered indistinct, if allowed at all.\n\nFollowing the July 1, 1934 decision by the studios put the power over film censorship in Breen's hands, he appeared in a series of newsreel clips promoting the new order of business, assuring Americans that the motion-picture industry would be cleansed of \"the vulgar, the cheap, and the tawdry\" and that pictures would be made \"vital and wholesome entertainment\". All scripts now went through PCA, and several films playing in theaters were ordered withdrawn.\n\nThe first film Breen censored in the production stage was the Joan Crawford film \"Forsaking All Others\". Although Independent film producers vowed they would give \"no thought to Mr. Joe Breen or anything he represents\", they caved on their stance within one month of making it. The major studios still owned most of the successful theaters in the country, and studio heads such as Harry Cohn of Columbia Pictures had already agreed to stop making indecent films. In several large cities audiences booed when the Production seal appeared before films. But the Catholic Church was pleased, and in 1936 Pope Pius XI stated that the U.S. film industry \"has recognized and accepts its responsibility before society.\" The Legion condemned zero films produced by the MPPDA between 1936 and 1943.\n\nA coincidental upswing in the fortunes of several studios was publicly explained by Code proponents such as the \"Motion Picture Herald\" as proof positive that the code was working. Another fortunate coincidence for Code supporters was the torrent of famous criminals such as John Dillinger, Baby Face Nelson, and Bonnie and Clyde that were killed by police shortly after the PCA took power. Corpses of the outlaws were shown in newsreels around the country, alongside clips of Al Capone and Machine Gun Kelly in Alcatraz. Among the unarguably positive aspects of the Code being enforced was the money it saved studios in having to edit, cut, and alter films to get approval from the various state boards and censors. The money saved was in the millions annually. A spate of more wholesome family films featuring performers such as Shirley Temple took off.\n\nStars such as James Cagney redefined their images. Cagney played a series of patriots, and his gangster in \"Angels with Dirty Faces\" (1937) purposefully acts like a coward when he is executed so children who had looked up to him would cease any such admiration. Breen in essence neutered Groucho Marx, removing most of his jokes which directly referenced sex, although some sexual references slipped through unnoticed in the Marx Brothers post-Code pictures. In the political realm, films such \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\" (1939) in which James Stewart tries to change the American system from within while reaffirming its core values, stand in stark contrast to \"Gabriel Over the White House\" where a dictator is needed to cure America's woes.\n\nSome pre-Code movies suffered irreparable damage from censorship after 1934. When studios attempted to re-issue films from the 1920s and early 1930s, they were forced to make extensive cuts. Films such as \"Mata Hari\" (1931), \"Arrowsmith\" (1931), and \"A Farewell to Arms\" (1932) exist only in their censored versions. Many other films survived intact because they were too controversial to be re-released, such as \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1931), which was remade a decade later with the same name, and thus never had their master negatives edited. In the case of \"Convention City\" (1933), which Breen would not allow to be re-released in any form, the entire film remains missing. Although it has been rumored that all prints and negatives were ordered destroyed by Jack Warner in the late thirties, further research shows the negative was in the vaults as late as 1948 when it was junked due to nitrate decomposition.\n\nIn the 1980s, New York City Film Forum programmer Bruce Goldstein held the first film festivals featuring pre-Code films. Goldstein is also credited by San Francisco film critic Mick LaSalle as the person to bring the term \"pre-Code\" into general use.\n\nUCLA ran several series of pre-Code films during the 2000s, showcasing films which had not been seen for decades, and not available on any home media.\n\nIn 2014 the British Film Institute ran a 21-film season titled \"Hollywood Babylon: Early Talkies Before the Censors\", at the BFI Southbank.\n\nIn the 1990s, MGM released several pre-Code films on laserdisc and VHS. \"The Forbidden Hollywood Collection\" included: \"Baby Face\"; \"Beauty and the Boss\"; \"Big Business Girl\"; \"Blessed Event\"; \"Blonde Crazy\"; \"Bombshell\"; \"Dance, Fools, Dance\"; \"Employees' Entrance\"; \"Ex-Lady\"; \"Female\"; \"Havana Widows\"; \"Heroes for Sale\"; \"Illicit\"; \"I've Got Your Number\"; \"Ladies They Talk About\"; \"Lady Killer\"; \"Madam Satan\"; \"Night Nurse\"; \"Our Dancing Daughters\"; \"Our Modern Maidens\"; \"The Purchase Price\"; \"Red-Headed Woman\"; \"Scarlet Dawn\"; \"Skyscraper Souls\"; \"The Strange Love of Molly Louvain\"; \"They Call It Sin\"; and \"Three on a Match\".\n\nMGM/UA and Turner Classic Movies also released other pre-Code films such as \"The Divorcee\", \"Doctor X\", \"A Free Soul\", \"Little Caesar\", \"Mystery of the Wax Museum\", \"Possessed\", \"The Public Enemy\", \"Red Dust\" (remade in 1953 as \"Mogambo\"), and \"Riptide\" under other labels.\n\nIn 1999, the Roan Group/Troma Entertainment released two pre-Code DVD collections: \"Pre-Code Hollywood: The Risqué Years #1\", featuring \"Of Human Bondage\", \"Millie\" and \"Kept Husbands\", and \"Pre-Code Hollywood 2\", featuring \"Bird of Paradise\" and \"The Lady Refuses\".\n\nWarner Bros. Home Video has released a number of their pre-Code films on DVD under the \"Forbidden Hollywood\" banner. To date, ten volumes have been released:\n\nUniversal Home Video followed suit with the \"Pre-Code Hollywood Collection: Universal Backlot Series\" box set (April 7, 2009). It includes \"The Cheat\", \"Merrily We Go to Hell\", \"Hot Saturday\", \"Torch Singer\", \"Murder at the Vanities\", and \"Search for Beauty\", together with a copy of the entire Hays Code.\n\nThere have been numerous releases of manufactured-on-demand DVD-Rs, with Warner also issuing various pre-Coders individually and as dual-film sets via their Warner Archive Collection imprint. These include:\n\nTurner have also released MOD DVDs, including:\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "2452267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2452267", "title": "Rigdum Funnidos", "text": "Rigdum Funnidos\n\nRigdum Funnidos is a character in Henry Carey's \"Chrononhotonthologos\" (1734). Rigdum Funnidos is the comically plain-spoken contrast to the bombastic Aldiborontiphoscophornio. Both are courtiers, but whereas Aldiborontiphoscophornio might explain, when asked who Somnus is,\nRigdum Funnidos responds,\nRigdum is both a Sancho Panza to the absurd Aldiborontiphoscophornio and a figure of the \"Plain Dealer\" (see \"The Plain Dealer\" by William Wycherly).\n\nIt is also Sir Walter Scott's nickname for John Ballantyne. Scott's epithet was a compliment. Conversely Aldiborontiphoscophornio was Scott's name for James Ballantyne in allusion to his pompous manner.\n"}
{"id": "53391941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53391941", "title": "Sambe", "text": "Sambe\n\nSambe (), or hemp fiber, is a traditional fiber for Korean clothing. The knowledge of weaving sambe skillfully is being lost, has been deemed a national treasure, and specific individuals with the ability were designated intangible cultural assets. Sambe was the primary textile fiber used in clothing for commoners prior to the introduction of cotton to Korea in the late 15th century. A particularly fine variety is \"andongpo\" from Andong, North Gyeongsang Province.\n\nA Korean traditional funeral includes a sambe death dress for the deceased and sambe clothing for mourners. After commercial relations between China and Korea resumed in 1990, Chinese-made hemp cloth began to replace Korean cloth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "850721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850721", "title": "Sarajevo Winter Festival", "text": "Sarajevo Winter Festival\n\nThe Sarajevo Winter Festival (Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian: \"Sarajevska zima\" / Сарајевска зима) is a cultural festival held annually since the winter of 1984-1985.\n\nThe “Sarajevo Winter” Festival has traditionally been held under the auspices of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, European Union, UNESCO, The Presidency of B&H, The Federation of B&H, The Council of Ministers of B&H, Sarajevo Canton, City of Sarajevo and Stari grad Municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "13251530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13251530", "title": "Schleberoda", "text": "Schleberoda\n\nSchleberoda is a village and a former municipality in the Burgenlandkreis district, in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. Since 1 July 2009, it is part of the town Freyburg.\n\nIt has been proposed by Germany for inscription in the List of World Heritage. The World Heritage nomination Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut is representative for the processes that shaped the continent during the High Middle Ages between 1000 and 1300: Christianization, the so-called Landesausbau and the dynamics of cultural exchange and transfer characteristic for this very period.\n\nSchleberoda is located north of the Unstrut. It was founded as a result of intensive land development by clearance in the High Middle Ages such as other villages with ″root″ (Roda) in the name (e.g. Albersroda, Baumersorda, Schnellroda, Ebersroda and Schleberoda). \nThe closely bordering local nobles in the area separated their territories using stone landmarks, as is still visible at the historic edges of the nearby woods, authentic landmarks which have been unchanged since the High Middle Ages: The clearance work and founding of new villages ran southwards from the original parish of Mücheln and ended at the Neue Göhle forest, which belonged to the territory of the Landgraves of Thuringia and could therefore not be cleared.<br>\nThe forest Neue Göhle (Old Sorbian name gola = heath forest) has survived as a continuous, large forest complex. It was used for the production of pole wood in the context of winegrowing at a very early point in time, which is why it had been afforested in the form of coppice-with-standards. Stone landmarks, ditches, banks and paths are still visible at the historic edges of this woods separated the territories of the closely bordering local nobles in the area.\n\nSchleberoda has retained the structures and authentic form dating from the time of its foundation. It is an examples of the land development in the contact area between Germans and Slavs in the High Middle Ages. It has been able to retain its original ground plan as a radial round village dating from the High Middle Ages. Around the original village pond, serving for fire-fighting, and the bake house, replaced at the end of the 18th century, forward-gabled and side-gabled buildings are grouped, some made with packed loam, with high-quality portals dating from the 16th to 19th century. \nThe position of the former gate to the compact village settlement is still identifiable today. Including the outer boundary of the official village area is not only identifiable by a circumferential path and has survived in its original form to the north-west in the shape of an impenetrable hedge. The Romanesque choir tower of the village church with coupled abat sons has survived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38777351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38777351", "title": "Siren suit", "text": "Siren suit\n\nThe siren suit is a one-piece garment for the whole body which is easily put on or taken off, originally designed for use on the way to and in air-raid shelters. The suit solved the problems of warmth and modesty encountered when seeking shelter during nighttime air raids in the United Kingdom during World War II. It was roomy and could be put on over night clothes quickly when an imminent air raid was announced by the sirens.\n\nThe suit was worn by both children and adults when sheltering in either back garden or public shelters.\n\nSimilar in style to boilersuits worn by many workers including mechanics, brick layers and tank crews to protect their standard clothing, the siren suit was invented by Winston Churchill as an original leisure suit in the 1930s. He played a large part in popularising it as an item of clothing during World War II, wearing it regularly, including when meeting other important people such as U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, General Dwight Eisenhower and Soviet leader Joseph Stalin.\n\nThe advantages of clothing that could be easily and quickly put on over other clothing led to the adoption of this style of suit during the war by many who were forced to leave their homes to seek shelter during air raids. That these raids were announced by the sound of sirens led to the adoption of their name.\n\nCut loose, with zippered and button closures, a belt and large simple pockets, siren suits were made of many fabrics but most typically wool or other materials available under clothing rationing. Suits could be bought ready made or as a pattern from which they could be hand made with available fabrics. \n\nSome suits had a panel at the back that opened to allow the wearer to use the toilet while still wearing the suit.\n\nWinston Churchill was a famous wearer, having a pin stripe version which he wore during the war years and then for portraits by Oscar Nemon and Frank O. Salisbury after the war in the 1950s. Another suit, made of bottle-green velvet, was created for him by Turnbull & Asser. One of his gray pinstripe suits was sold in 2002 for £29,875.\n\nThese suits form a common motif in descriptions of war-time childhoods.\n\n"}
{"id": "47633415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47633415", "title": "Spinlister", "text": "Spinlister\n\nSpinlister is a website and mobile app for peer-to-peer sharing of outdoor sporting gear, specifically bikes, surf boards, SUPs, skis and snowboards. Bikes are the company’s primary market. It is commonly referred to as the \"Airbnb for bikes”. The platform has listings in 63 countries and users from 120 countries. It was founded in 2011 and is headquartered in Santa Monica, California.\n\nThe company was founded by Will Dennis and Jeff Noh in May 2011. The idea for Spinlister arose after Dennis listed his own bike for rent on Craigslist in New York City and saw interest from both locals and tourists to rent it out for more than a few hours. The company's first two markets were New York City and San Francisco and started with only bike listings from individuals or existing bike rental shops.\n\nSpinlister was the Audience Choice Winner during the TechCrunch Disrupt Battlefield in San Francisco in 2012. It raised $450,000 in initial funding from investors.\n\nIn late 2012 the company rebranded itself as Liquid and reintroduced itself as a \"liquid\" marketplace for sharing of assets, including bikes. Around this time, the company also moved its headquarters to San Francisco. Shortly thereafter, Dennis and Noh shut down the service. \n\nIn 2013, the company relaunched under its original name and branding and with a mobile app under the direction of Brazilian entrepreneur and one of the seed investors, Marcelo Loureiro. The company remains privately funded.\n\nIn addition to the website, iOS and Android apps were released in 2013. The marketplace expanded to include snow and surf equipment in 2013 and 2014, respectively.\n\nIn 2014 and 2015, the company was the official bike share sponsor of the Ironman Triathlon series.\n\nIn March 2015, the company announced the launch of a decentralized bike share model at the South by Southwest music festival in Austin, Texas. The new system does not require a hub or station but rather allows users to locate, book, unlock, ride and relock the bikes through the Spinlister app. The “Smart Bikes” are manufactured by and will be available for existing users to purchase. The first trial market will be held in Portland, Oregon. In March 2016 the company announced the acquisition of Cycleswap, a Dutch peer-to-peer bike sharing platform.\n\nIn April 2018, the company announced it will be shutting down on April 22, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "47981418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47981418", "title": "Stay (sculptures)", "text": "Stay (sculptures)\n\nStay are identical cast iron human form sculptures made by Antony Gormley and installed in two locations in the central city of Christchurch, New Zealand. The first sculpture was installed in the Avon River in September 2015. The second sculpture is still in storage at Canterbury Museum, to be installed in the north quadrangle of the Arts Centre in early 2016.\n\nGormley visited Christchurch in 2007 and remembers it as a city \"blessed with open spaces and relatively wide streets and no great high-rises\". The central city received massive damage in the February 2011 Christchurch earthquake. Gormley was approached in 2014 about contributing an artwork to Christchurch, and he provided two identical cast iron sculptures that can contribute to the 'healing' of the city, as he called it.\n\nGormley stated that he made his work available at a discounted rate, and had therefore asked for the price not to be revealed. The purchase and installation was funded by Christchurch City Council (CCC) and the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority (CERA). CCC contributed NZ$502,500 towards the cost, whilst CERA would not disclose the size of their contribution.\n\nThe first announcement about the legacy (i.e. permanent) artworks by Gormley was made in April 2015, when it was revealed that his work was to be installed in Christchurch as part of the Scape8 public art exhibition, to be held from 3 October to 15 November 2015.\n\nAvon River coordinates: \n\nThe local newspaper, \"The Press\", reported on 22 September 2015 of the pending installation of the first sculpture in the Avon River, just upstream from the Gloucester Street Bridge. A pile was screwed into the riverbed, and the sculpture installed onto this foundation on 29 September. This was the first work of Gormley installed in New Zealand.\n\nArts Centre coordinates: \n\nIn early 2016, the second sculpture is to be installed in the north quadrangle of the Christchurch Arts Centre. As of October 2015, the main part of the Arts Centre is still under earthquake repair and not accessible to the public as yet.\n"}
{"id": "634116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634116", "title": "Super Sentai", "text": "Super Sentai\n\nThe is a Japanese superhero team metaseries of TV series produced by Toei Company, Toei Agency and Bandai, and aired by TV Asahi (\"Sentai\" is the Japanese word for \"task force\" or \"fighting squadron\"). The shows are of the \"tokusatsu\" genre, featuring live action characters and colorful special effects, and are aimed at children. \"Super Sentai\" airs alongside the \"Kamen Rider\" series in the \"Super Hero Time\" programming block on Sunday mornings. In North America, the Super Sentai Series is best known as the source material for the \"Power Rangers\" franchise.\nIn every Super Sentai Series, the protagonists are a team of people who – using wrist-worn or hand-held devices – transform into superheroes and gain superpowers – color-coded uniforms, signature weapons, sidearms, and fighting skills – to battle a group of evil beings that threaten to take over the Earth. In a typical episode, the heroes thwart the enemies' plans and defeat an army of enemy soldiers and the monster of the week before an enlarged version of the monster confronts them, only to be defeated again when the heroes fight it with their mecha. Each Super Sentai Series is set in its own fictional universe; various TV, video and film specials feature a team-up between one or more teams.\n\nThe series was created by Shotaro Ishinomori, then known for the 1971–1973 \"Kamen Rider\" TV series and the long-running manga \"Cyborg 009\". He developed the first two Super Sentai Series \"Himitsu Sentai Gorenger\", which ran from 1975 to 1977, and \"J.A.K.Q. Dengekitai\", released in 1977. Toei Company put the franchise on hiatus in 1978, collaborating with Marvel Comics to produce a live action \"Spider-Man\" series, which added giant robots to the concept of \"tokusatsu\" shows. The giant robot concept was carried over to Toei and Marvel's next show, \"Battle Fever J\", released in 1979, and was then used throughout the Super Sentai Series.\n\nIn 1993, American production company Saban Entertainment adapted 1992's \"Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger\" into \"Mighty Morphin Power Rangers\" for the Fox Kids programming block, combining the original Japanese action footage with new footage featuring American actors for the story sequences. Since then, nearly every \"Super Sentai\" series that followed became a new season of \"Power Rangers\". Some countries, such as France, Brazil, Thailand, and the Philippines, switched from broadcasting \"Super Sentai\" to \"Power Rangers\". In 2002, Saban sold the \"Power Rangers\" franchise to Disney's Buena Vista division, who owned it until 2010, broadcasting \"Power Rangers\" on ABC Kids, ABC Family Channel, Jetix, and Toon Disney. On 12 May 2010, Saban bought the franchise back from Disney, moving the show to the Nickelodeon network for 2011. On 1 May 2018, toy company Hasbro announced they had acquired the \"Power Rangers\" franchise from Saban Capital Group for $522 million.\n\n\"Power Rangers Dino Force Brave\" is a 2017 South Korean tokusatsu television show produced by Daewon Media, the same company which distributes the Super Sentai Series in South Korea under the \"Power Rangers\" label. It serves as a sequel to the 2013 Super Sentai series \"Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger\".\n\nThe following is a list of the Super Sentai Series and their years of broadcast:\n\n\n\nThe following releases were on Super Video or Special DVD:\n\nAlthough the Super Sentai Series originated in Japan, various Sentai series have been imported and dubbed in other languages for broadcast in several other countries.\n\n\"Bioman\", \"Flashman\", \"Maskman\", \"Liveman\", \"Turboranger\", \"Fiveman\", and \"Jetman\" were broadcast in France in the 1980s and early 1990s, with \"Maskman\" and \"Liveman\" marketed as \"Bioman 2\" and \"Bioman 3\", respectively. Additionally, \"Liveman\", \"Turboranger\", and \"Jetman\" were broadcast in Spain and Portugal. \"Denziman\", \"Goggle-V\", \"Sun Vulcan\" and \"Battle Fever J\" were broadcast in Italy. In addition, some episodes of \"Bioman\" and \"Turboranger\" were released on VHS in Greece. By the early 1990s, the Sentai broadcasts were replaced by \"Power Rangers\".\n\nVarious Sentai series were broadcast in Malaysia starting with \"Hikari Sentai Maskman\" during the 1990s, dubbed in English and later in Malay. Almost all Super Sentai shows were broadcast in Thailand since the 1980s, a year following their Japanese debut. They were exclusively broadcast on Channel 9 from the late 1980s to early 1990s until \"Power Rangers\" replaced \"Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger\" in the mid-1990s. Since then, the series have appeared on various channels.\n\nIn Vietnam, most of the Super Sentai Series were fansubed into Vietnamese and posted on public Internet sites. Phuong Nam Film licensed Vietnamese distribution of Super Sentai Series, starting with \"Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger\" in 2003, which was the best-selling series in the country at that time. Phuong Nam Film continue to release the series a year or two after their Japanese premieres.\n\nIn the late 1970s, \"J.A.K.Q. Dengekitai\" was the first Sentai series to be shown in the Philippines. \"Choudenshi Bioman\" (the last \"tokusatsu\" dubbed in English on Philippine television) and \"Hikari Sentai Maskman\" (the first Super Sentai Series dubbed in Filipino on IBC) were broadcast in the Philippines in the 1980s. \"Choudenshi Bioman\" was so popular that many people from that generation came to associate all the Super Sentai Series as continuations of it, and \"Hikari Sentai Maskman\" was marketed as \"Bioman 2 Maskman\" on local TV. During the early 1990s, some other series were shown, such as \"Kousoku Sentai Turboranger\", \"Chikyu Sentai Fiveman\" and \"Chōjin Sentai Jetman\" which became the last Sentai series to broadcast on ABC5 in 1994. \"Dai Sentai Goggle-V\" was also aired on RPN 9 in 1998 every Sunday morning. From 1995 to 1999 and 2004 to 2015, ABS-CBN aired the American-produced \"Power Rangers\".\n\nSuper Sentai has been broadcast in South Korea, dubbed in Korean. The first such series was \"Choushinsei Flashman\" which aired as \"Jigu Bangwidae Flash Man\" (\"Earth Defence Squadron Flashman\"), released in video format in 1989 by the Daeyung Panda video company; this was followed by \"Hikari Sentai Maskman\" and \"Chodenshi Bioman\". Throughout the 1990s, \"Dai Sentai Goggle Five\", \"Dengeki Sentai Changeman\", \"Choujuu Sentai Liveman\", and \"Kousoku Sentai Turboranger\" were also released in video format. In the 2000s and early 2010s, Tooniverse (formerly Orion Cartoon Network), JEI-TV (Jaeneung Television), Champ TV/Anione TV (Daewon Broadcasting), Cartoon Network South Korea, and Nickelodeon South Korea have broadcast Super Sentai Series a year following their original Japanese broadcast, but have changed the titles to \"Power Rangers\". Recently, there have been broadcasts of \"Bakuryuu Sentai Abaranger\", \"Tokusou Sentai Dekaranger\", \"Mahou Sentai Magiranger\", \"GoGo Sentai Boukenger\", \"Juken Sentai Gekiranger\", \"Engine Sentai Go-onger\", \"Tensou Sentai Goseiger\", \"Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger\", \"Tokumei Sentai Go-Busters\", \"Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger\", \"Ressha Sentai ToQger\", \"Shuriken Sentai Ninninger\", \"Doubutsu Sentai Zyuohger\", and \"Uchu Sentai Kyuranger\" under the titles of \"Power Rangers Dino Thunder\", \"Power Rangers S.P.D.\", \"Power Rangers Magic Force\", \"Power Rangers Treasure Force\", \"Power Rangers Wild Spirits\", \"Power Rangers Engine Force\", \"Power Rangers Jungle Force\", \"Power Rangers Miracle Force\", \"Power Rangers Captain Force\", \"Power Rangers Go-Busters\", \"Power Rangers Dino Force\", \"Power Rangers Train Force\", \"Power Rangers Ninja Force\", \"Power Rangers Animal Force\", and \"Power Rangers Galaxy Force\" respectively. Furthermore, \"Power Rangers Dino Force\" has the South Korea-exclusive sequel called \"Power Rangers Dino Force Brave\".\n\n\"Choushinsei Flashman\" and \"Choujuu Sentai Liveman\" were broadcast in Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru in the early 1990s, and as reruns in the early 2000s. \"Flashman\" arrived with Spanish dubbing done in Brazil and \"Liveman\" in Venezuela.\n\n\"Dengeki Sentai Changeman\", \"Flashman\", \"Maskman\" and \"Goggle V\" were broadcast in Brazil. The first season to air was \"Changeman\" in 1988, on the TV Manchete channel (now RedeTV), and caused a tremendous impact in its time, considered a cult classic.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Sentai broadcasts in Latin America were replaced by \"Power Rangers\".\n\nAfter Honolulu, Hawaii's KIKU-TV had success with \"Android Kikaider\" (marketed as \"Kikaida\") and \"Kamen Rider V3\" in the 1970s, multiple Super Sentai Series, including \"Himitsu Sentai Gorenger\" and \"Battle Fever J\", were brought to the Hawaiian market, broadcast in Japanese with English subtitles by JN Productions. In 1985, Marvel Comics produced a pilot for an American adaptation of \"Taiyo Sentai Sun Vulcan\", but the show was rejected by the major US TV networks. In 1986, Saban Productions produced a pilot for an American adaptation of \"Choudenshi Bioman\" titled \"Bio Man\". In 1987, some episodes of \"Kagaku Sentai Dynaman\" were dubbed and aired as a parody on the USA Network television show \"Night Flight\".\n\nOn 25 July 2014, Shout! Factory announced that they would release \"Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger\" on DVD in the United States. Since then, Shout! has been the official distributor of Super Sentai DVDs in North America. Beginning in 2016, Super Sentai episodes would be available on demand on ShoutFactoryTV.com. These episodes can only be viewed in North America.\n\nThe Super Sentai Series has been parodied and emulated in various ways throughout the world. The term \"Sentai\" is also occasionally used to describe shows with premises like the Super Sentai Series.\n\nGainax produced a Japanese fan film called in 1982 as a homage to the Super Sentai franchise. \n\nThe Thai TV series \"Sport Ranger\", another homage to Super Sentai, aired in 2006. \n\n\"Jushi Sentai France Five\" (later known as \"Shin Kenjushi France Five\") is a French online mini-series that was released in six installments from 2000 to 2013. The series was so popular in Japan that Akira Kushida recorded its second opening theme.\n\nNaoko Takeuchi used the Super Sentai Series as inspiration for the creation of the Sailor Soldiers in \"Sailor Moon\".\n\nAs part of the \"Omoikkiri Ii!! TV\" television program, a series of features was produced on various spas and onsen around Japan titled . This featured \"tokusatsu\" and drama actors Takashi Hagino (Changéríon of \"Choukou Senshi Changéríon\" and Kamen Rider Ouja of \"Kamen Rider Ryuki\") as , Kento Handa (Kamen Rider Faiz of \"Kamen Rider 555\") as , Kengo Ohkuchi (Emperor Z of \"Ressha Sentai ToQger\") as , Masashi Mikami (Bouken Blue in \"GoGo Sentai Boukenger\") as , and Kohei Murakami (Kamen Rider Kaixa in \"Kamen Rider 555\") as .\n\nIn 2013, Gainax produced , a 13-episode miniseries of live-action shorts which parodied the Super Sentai Series. The series' characters are all former members of a fighting group called . \"EA's Rock\" is broadcast on the Tōmeihan Net 6 Japanese Association of Independent Television Stations as well as Nico Nico Douga.\n\n is a Toei-produced parody series that premiered in April 2012 on BS Asahi and Tokyo MX. \"Akibaranger\" is made for adult fans who were fans of the Super Sentai Series as children. The story features three otaku who live in the Akihabara district of Tokyo who receive technology from a scientist to fight an evil threat that at first only exists in their delusions, but eventually starts materializing itself in the real world. Like \"Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger\", \"Akibaranger\" features guest appearances by veteran Super Sentai actors (as themselves rather than their characters), and voice actors and musicians who have worked in anime and \"tokusatsu\". A second season aired in April 2013.\n\nAkira Toriyama was inspired to create the Ginyu Force for the \"Dragon Ball\" manga after seeing his children watch Super Sentai.\n\n"}
{"id": "15763236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15763236", "title": "Trobriand cricket", "text": "Trobriand cricket\n\nTrobriand cricket refers to a unique version of the bat-and-ball sport cricket played by the Trobriand Islanders. They were first exposed to the game by Christian missionaries, who thought the game would discourage war among the natives. However, the game was quickly adapted to Trobriand culture by expanding the number of players, adding dances and chanting, and modifying the bats and balls. Since war between groups on the island was banned, cricket began to incorporate many of the traditional practices associated with war for the Trobriand people. The game also reflects the objects of powers introduced to the islands by its British colonizers and American troops during World War II.\n\nCricket was introduced to the Trobriand Islands in 1903 by the British Methodist missionary William Gillmore, who hoped to reduce tribal rivalry and fighting. The modern-day version is very different from the game introduced by Gillmore, as new rules and traditions have been integrated. \n\nIn the Trobriand Islands, \"kayasa\" is a form of obligatory, competitive activity done traditionally in the form of ritual warfare. Warfare with spears was replaced by cricket, as a peaceful way of continuing \"kayasa\". \n\nTrobriand cricket has been altered such that the home team is always the winner. There are no restrictions on the number of players on a team; thus, a team can have as many as 40 or 50 players. \n\nBefore the match, the ball and bats are given to a local spiritual leader who blesses the equipment for good luck. Also, this leader works on ensuring good weather. Before the match, each team practices chants and dances to be performed at various times throughout the game. Each out is followed by a celebratory dance, choreographed by the opposing team. These dances often have special meaning, commenting on the prowess of the team, their superior skills, or mocking the other team. These dances may also have sexual innuendos and erotic themes. \n\nBowling is done underarm (as in softball), rather than overarm as in international cricket. This change came about because underhanded-bowled balls are less painful if they contact with a player.\n\nThere are ritual entrance and exit dances. One team had a mascot dressed as a tourist (dressed in bright colors, stopping in front of the performances to get a “close-up” view with his pretend binoculars). At the end of the match, there is an exchange of food, with the home team putting on the feast.\n\nOther Trobriand changes to cricket include the following:\n\nToday, cricket holds special meaning for the local population of the Trobriands. It has evolved to take on warlike aspects. For example, players’ bodies are decorated in bright colors and designs, similar to those displayed by warriors. The field entry and exit dances take on a warlike formation. \n\nTrobriand cricket is an example of syncretism. Usually, syncretic cultures or traditions take elements from both the existing, “traditional” culture and elements from “outsiders” such as colonists, occupiers, or missionaries.\n\nTrobriand cricket was featured in an episode of the 2007 BBC series \"Last Man Standing\".\n\nIn the song \"Steak n' Sabre\", written by Frank Black and recorded by Frank Black and the Catholics, and which Black has stated is about alternate realities, he references \"Trobriander\" cricket: \"Like Trobrianders / Don't you understand that's a different kind of world.\"\n\n\n"}
