{"id": "29343563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29343563", "title": "2004 Central African constitutional referendum", "text": "2004 Central African constitutional referendum\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Central African Republic on 5 December 2004. The new constitution would change the system of government from presidential to semi-presidential, as well as putting a limit of two terms on the President. It was approved by 91.37% of voters with a 77.1% turnout.\n"}
{"id": "3024141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3024141", "title": "Administrative courts in Greece", "text": "Administrative courts in Greece\n\nGreece, as a civil law country has administrative courts. The establishment of those courts can be found in article 94 of the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic 1975, as revised in 2001. The administrative courts are composed from districts Courts of First Instance, district Courts of Appeal and a Supreme Administrative Court that is called the \"Council of State\". The Council of State is also the Court of first and last instance in some important cases. The Greek administrative courts have jurisdiction upon litigations between the State and the civilians. The most important of them are tax cases, social security cases, tort liability of the State cases, illegal immigration cases etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "45315667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45315667", "title": "Administrative discretion", "text": "Administrative discretion\n\nIn public administration, administrative discretion refers to the flexible exercising of judgment and decision making allowed to public administrators. Regulatory agencies have the power to exercise this type of discretion in their day-to-day activities, and there have been cases where regulatory agencies have abused this power. Administrative law can help these agencies get on the path of following regulations, serve the public, and in turn, a reflection of the public's values and beliefs.\n\nThere's a need for administrative discretion because the public’s interest could be at risk if several agencies were not following laws and regulations. Administrative discretion is important because without it, it could lead to arbitrary and unreasonable use of such discretion, which may lead to destruction of basic principles of administrative law. Although this type of discretion isn't laid out in the job-description of a bureaucrat/public servant, it is necessary because citizens use these bureaucratic institutions every day; such as the D.M.V. , public schooling, and numerous others. Street-level bureaucrats have to deal with the provision of service as well as translating vaguely worded mandates into specific cohesive and comprehensive language to organize protocol.\n\nAdministrative discretion allows agencies to use professional expertise and judgment when making decisions or performing official duties, as opposed to only adhering to strict regulations or statuses. For example, a public official has administrative discretion when he or she has the freedom to make a choice among potential courses of action. The failure to exercise reasonable judgment or discretion is abuse of discretion.\n\n\"I think that in our system of government, where law ends, tyranny need not begin. Where law ends, discretion begins, and the exercise of discretion may mean either beneficence or tyranny, either justice or injustice, either reasonableness or arbitrariness.\"—Kenneth Culp Davis\n\nThe idea of administrative discretion dates back as far as the time of widely known Greek philosopher Socrates in his quest to lay the foundation for philosophical ethics. Socrates determined a general ranking of \"universal morals\" in order to piece together certain criterion that could test what course of action to take in any immediate situation. He assigned value orders as well as certain \"means to ends\" that would determine alternatives for ethical philosophical generalization. In doing so, Socrates was creating the first type of basis for administrative discretion. \n\nWhen Andrew Jackson took office in 1829, the country was going through radical changes—the scale of government grew extensively which caused the need for an increase in the administrative activity. Jackson brought the bureaucratization of administration. He appointed his close friends to office to work in administered processes. This was known as the \"spoils system\", in which was a system was in place where presidential administrations had the power of hiring or firing federal workers; this brought a constant change in demands and routines for personnel. Of his additions to the administrative discretion and of bureaucracy as we know it today, one in particular, the creation of The Patent Reform Act of 1836 brought about the creation of new offices and adjudicatory administrative boards. Although, perhaps unknowingly, Jackson brought a new age to administrative discretion. Another president who has come in contact with administrative discretion is Madison. Known as Madison's Managers, drafted in 1787, some argue that early public administration literature had it right.\n\nAfter Jackson, many presidents followed suit of his example—appointing members to administrative processes. In some cases, officials appointed by the presidents abused their powers in administration. There were attempts to control administrative discretion throughout the 19th century, but those attempts overall, failed. Political appointees believed they indeed were law themselves—Jesse Hoyt and his successor Samuel Swartwout for example, notoriously did not comply with the rule to return funds they had collected on behalf of the Federal Government. However, within the 20th century, substantial changes occurred that better formed the concept of administrative discretion as we know it today.\n\nFranklin Roosevelt’s New Deal brought much needed relief to the public by implementing welfare programs in a dire time of crisis. There was a type of bureaucratic \"sprawl\": this era saw the creation of numerous agencies and boards. The birth of such a large bureaucracy, not only helped in aiding the public, but Roosevelt’s programs also answered important question of who would be part of the bureaucracy and govern future welfare programs. The New Deal emphasized the importance of administrative discretion in government and their processes by expanding the staff of the White House and creating new managerial techniques for the executive.\n\nThe Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 was created to govern the internal procedures of administrative agencies and how those agencies interact with the public. The act came about after the Attorney General appointed a committee to investigate the need for procedural reform. The notion of the time (not too far off-base of popular public notion today) was that various agencies were created by Congress over a long period of time in a piece-mail, haphazard manner. The view was that there was no uniformity in the chaotic bodies to administer anything. The 1946 act places policies on agencies’ rule-making, adjudications, and licensing behavior. The intention was to make sure that the public is protected and safe, with secured proper entitlements.\n\n\"Goldberg v. Kelly\"—In this 1970 case, City officials were administrating and terminating public assistance benefits under the federally assisted program of Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) and/or under New York State’s Home Relief Program in New York City. The problem arose as residents receiving financial aid claimed that the New York City officials overseeing and administering these programs terminated their aid without notifying them or holding a hearing. Recipients alleged that this was unconstitutional on the Administration's part because it denying them due process of law guaranteed under the Due Process Clause in the Fourteenth Amendment (Case Briefs). In this case, Administrative Discretion resulted in individualized parameters of what was deemed necessary to convey a termination of aid, instead of a federal standard. The Holding of Chief Justice Warren Burger and the court sided with the appellants' view: a full hearing of evidence is required before a recipient can be denied/deprived of certain types of government benefits. In other words, a recipient must receive some sort of notice should their aid be changed/terminated; whether in writing or orally.\n\n\"Industrial Union Department v. American Petroleum Institute--\"In this 1980, Under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (or OSHA), The Secretary of Labor was required to explicitly state exposure risks/limits at the lowest level of carcinogens that won't impair viability of the industries regulated. However, this failed to happen. The Secretary did not say or record anywhere that exposure to the substance benzene at 10 ppm (parts per million) would cause leukemia and exposure to 1 ppm would not (Oyez cases). The holding of the Supreme Court, under Justice Warren Burger, concluded that there was a statute for a requirement of significant risk, and the Secretary and agency had failed to uphold the statue of workers' health at risks. In this case, Administrative Discretion under the Secretary of Labor had not understood the \"extent feasible\" .\n\n\"Citizens To Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v Volpe--\"In this 1971 case, in Memphis, Tennessee, a group of citizens claimed that The Secretary of Transportation made the decision to have construction of a highway where Overton Park was located and violated statutes enacted by the congress. The court holding under justice Burger upheld the \"feasible and prudent\" clause: wherein an alternative exists to circumvent building the proposed highway through the park. Furthermore, the Secretary's decision to use federal money for the highway did not comply with the Department of Transportation Act of 1966.\n\n\"The IRS Tea Party Controversy\": The IRS must exercise discretion in administering the tax law. The IRS oversees a vast system that affects nearly everyone. Since the law is complex and often difficult to interpret, the IRS must draw fine lines in order to properly interpret, apply, and enforce the law. The IRS claims it gave extra scrutiny to Tea Party-affiliated groups based solely on the name and goals of the groups. The IRS asked those groups invasive questions that were not normally asked of other groups: about their donor lists, affiliations and contacts with the media .\n\nAdministrative Discretion in Criminal Law Enforcement\"--\" When a government official of law enforcement uses their own sense of ethical discretion such as not to or to invoke in criminal process. There are two major situational motivations of police discretion; whether police response is internally invoked or citizen initiated and whether it is a law enforcement of order maintenance situation. The two situational motivations combine to create four types of discretionary situations for law enforcement officials. The four different situations are proactive and reactive law enforcement and proactive and reactive order maintenance.\n\nIn today’s administrative discretion, some issues affect the way organizations function and the way the public feels towards administrations/agencies as a whole. In this way public administrators are seen as \"moral agents\"; they are given the task to exercise discretion, and reflect the society’s values. In theory, the public expects administrators to be the exemplary role models of society and follow laws and regulations. In reality, some do not think the administrators play fair and the public feels distrusts towards them. In a poll done by Gallup.com, the public showed an increase in the mistrust in government. People were asked if corruption was widespread throughout the government. The results recorded from 2006 to 2013 rose significantly; from 56% to 79%. The public may know little to nothing about the administration or their responsibilities, yet approval is very low. Some attribute this mistrust to a lack of transparency, where corruption can occur. The lack of transparency can mean that an administration is not completely honest, secretly keeping hidden agendas: withholding information from public view. It can also simply mean that the administration does not attempt to make their information easy to access or understand for the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "13446826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13446826", "title": "Aliens Act 1905", "text": "Aliens Act 1905\n\nThe Aliens Act 1905 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. The Act for the first time introduced immigration controls and registration, and gave the Home Secretary overall responsibility for immigration and nationality matters.\n\nWhile the Act was ostensibly designed to prevent paupers or criminals from entering the country and set up a mechanism to deport those who slipped through, one of its main objectives was to control Jewish immigration from Eastern Europe. Jewish immigration from Eastern Europe saw a significant increase after 1880 which served as some basis for the creation of the Aliens Act 1905. Although it remained in force, the 1905 Act was effectively subsumed by the Aliens Restriction Act 1914, which introduced far more restrictive provisions. It was eventually repealed by the Aliens Restriction (Amendment) Act 1919.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Russian Empire was home to about five million Jews, at the time, the \"largest Jewish community in the world\". Subjected to religious persecution, they were obliged to live in the Pale of Settlement, on the Polish-Russian borders, in conditions of great poverty. About half left, mostly for the United States, but many – about 150,000 – arrived in the United Kingdom mostly in England. This reached its peak in the late 1890s, with \"tens of thousands of Jews ... mostly poor, semi-skilled and unskilled\" settling in the East End of London.\n\nBy the turn of the century, a popular and media backlash had begun. The British Brothers League was formed, with the support of prominent politicians, organising marches and petitions. At rallies, its speakers said that Britain should not become \"the dumping ground for the scum of Europe\". In 1905, an editorial in the \"Manchester Evening Chronicle\" wrote \"that the dirty, destitute, diseased, verminous and criminal foreigner who dumps himself on our soil and rates simultaneously, shall be forbidden to land\". Anti-semitism broke out into violence in South Wales in 1902 and 1903 where Jews were assaulted.\n\nAside from anti-semitic sentiments, the act was also driven by the economic and social unrest in the East End of London where most immigrants settled. Work was difficult to come by and families required all members to contribute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46964094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46964094", "title": "Banco Convention of 1905", "text": "Banco Convention of 1905\n\nThe Banco Convention of 1905, between the United States and Mexico, was negotiated and signed in 1905 and ratified by both nations in 1907. It resulted in 247 exchanges of bancos (land surrounded by bends in the river that became segregated by a cutoff, often due to rapid erosion of the river channel) between the two nations over the period from 1910 to 1976. Most of these were in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, the Presidio Valley and the El Paso-Juarez Valley. In 1927 the convention was applied to the short international border on the Colorado River.\n\nIn 1884, a further treaty set out to clarify the 1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The Convention of November 12, 1884 established the rules for determining the location of the US-Mexico boundary when the meandering rivers of the international border transferred tracts of land from one bank of the river to the other. The treaty stated that if the river changed course gradually through a process of soil erosion, then the boundary should follow the new course of the river. However, a sudden change of course, for example one caused by a flood, would not affect the boundary. Nevertheless, the clarifications established in the treaty of 1884 did not resolve the question of land ownership.\n\nThe Convention of March 1, 1889 established the International Boundary Commission (IBC) to apply the rules in the 1884 Convention. It was modified by the Banco Convention of March 20, 1905 to retain the courses of the Rio Grande and the Colorado River as international boundaries in the event of sudden changes.\n\nBecause the course of the Rio Grande was not static, to maintain the location of the river as the international boundary presented diplomatic and practical challenges. The river changed course frequently where it flowed through areas of relatively loose alluvial soil, doubling back on itself as it wound its way through the Lower Rio Grande Valley. Especially in times of flooding, tracts of land called \"bancos\" were created by avulsive changes that cut off entire oxbow-shaped meanders.\n\nThe result of these cut-offs was often confusion regarding sovereignty, land ownership, and law enforcement. The purpose of the 1905 convention was to eliminate these bancos from the effects of Article II of the US-Mexico Convention of 1884, to which they otherwise would have been subject, and to establish a more definitive means to settle matters. Any bancos larger than or with a population over 200 were excluded from the 1905 convention.\n\nThe International Boundary and Water Commission was charged with implementing the convention. Under the treaty, the following transfers involving Texas occurred from 1910–1976:\n\nIn 1927 under this convention, the U.S. acquired two bancos from Mexico at the Colorado River border with Arizona. Farmers Banco, covering , a part of the Cocopah Indian Reservation, was ceded to the U.S. with controversy. Fain Banco, of , also became U.S. soil.\n\nBelow is a list of the 247 bancos that were exchanged under the terms of the 1905 convention. This information is also available as a \"kmz\" file at this location.\n\"Note:\" For all 247 bancos, aerial images, including orthographic images, provide visible evidence of each location at the stated coordinates. The latitude and longitude coordinates are within the perimeter of each banco and were exactly located, as shown on the maps that were published with the corresponding minutes of the International Boundary and Water Commission, which officially transferred jurisdiction over each banco.\n"}
{"id": "519576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519576", "title": "Breakup", "text": "Breakup\n\nA relationship breakup, often referred to simply as a breakup, is the termination of an intimate relationship by any means other than death. The act is commonly termed \"dumping [someone]\" in slang when it is initiated by one partner. The term is less likely to be applied to a married couple, where a breakup is typically called a separation or divorce. When a couple engaged to be married breaks up, it is typically called a \"broken engagement\".\n\nSusie Orbach (1992) has argued that the dissolution of dating and cohabiting relationships can be as painful as or more painful than divorce because these nonmarital relationships are less socially recognized.\n\nKamiar-K. Rueckert argues with the works of Donald Winnicott that the ability to separate is an essentially healthy sign of emotional development and maturity. Once, a child has obtained closeness and attachment by his early caregivers, he or she is able to develop autonomy and identity. If children have not introjected the good and protective qualities of their parents, they will fear separation and break-ups.\n\nSeveral psychological models have been proposed to explain the process of a relationship breakup, many suggesting that 'relationship dissolution occurs in stages'.\n\nL. Lee proposes that there are five stages ultimately leading up to a breakup.\nSteve Duck outlines a six-stage cycle of relationship breakup, including\nHill, Rubin and Peplau identify 5 factors that predicted breakup before marriage:\nIn 1976, sociologist Diane Vaughan proposed an \"uncoupling theory,\" where there exists a \"turning point\" in the dynamics of relationship breakup – 'a precise moment when they \"knew the relationship was over,\" when \"everything went dead inside\"' – followed by a transition period in which one partner unconsciously knows the relationship is going to end, but holds on to it for an extended period, even for years.\n\nVaughan considered that the process of breakup was asymmetrical for initiator and respondent: the former 'has begun mourning the loss of the relationship and has undertaken something tantamount to a rehearsal, mentally and, to varying degrees, experientially, of a life apart from the partner'. The latter then has to play catch-up: 'to make their own transition out of the relationship, partners must redefine initiator and relationship negatively, legitimating the dissolution'.\n\nAs a result, for Vaughan 'getting out of a relationship includes a redefinition of self at several levels: in the private thoughts of the individual, between partners, and in the larger social context in which the relationship exists'. She considered that 'uncoupling is complete when the partners have defined themselves and are defined by others as separate and independent of each other – when being partners is no longer a major source of identity'.\n\nBreakups are extremely stressful, unpleasant, and traumatic events, regardless of whether the individual in question is the one who actively made the decision to end the relationship. Both parties feel a large number of negative effects as a result of the relationship’s dissolution, and these events often gain the reputation for being some of the worst events in people’s lives. These include psychological distress symptoms, grief reactions, an overall decline of psychological well-being, and potential stalking behaviors. Individuals often work hard to keep their relationships intact because of how significantly distressing and problematic these negative effects can be, even in the face of potential complications in their relationship, for as long as they can bear it. While the negative symptoms observed may not necessarily fit the definitions of post-traumatic stress as described by the DSM-IV from the American Psychiatric Association, there are some certain symptoms that mirror those from extreme traumatic events and disasters in a person’s life. However, not all individuals are exposed to the same level of impact following a breakup, as a result of several mitigating factors based on the quality of the relationship before the dissolution takes place.\n\nIndividuals who had just recently experienced the dissolution of a romantic relationship reported several symptoms of acute psychological distress. These included flashback and intrusive memories associated with their partner, often triggered by important dates associated with either the relationship or the breakup. These intrusive distress symptoms manifested in various ways for both the individual who initiated the breakup and their partner, such as being reminded of certain aspects of their behavior or their preferences.\n\nAnother set of psychological distress symptoms that were reported by individuals who had experienced a romantic relationship breakup fell under the category of avoidance behavior. Being without their partner causes their self-concept to shift as they struggle through emotional distress. This involves an active attempt at denying or ignoring the circumstances of the current situation, or those that led to the dissolution of the relationship. In relation to this, individuals also noted feeling numb and uninterested with the world around them because of the breakup.\n\nThe combination of this desire to engage in avoidance behaviors and the intrusive memories that may naturally come up cause individuals to feel significant emotional swings and outbursts in the form of irritation, anger, and startle responses. Individuals were noted as being far more paranoid, suspicious, and jealous, often tied towards a desire to know information about their ex-partner.\n\nOverall, these psychological distress symptoms come together to result in a significantly lower level of self-esteem among individuals who have just underwent the dissolution of a romantic relationship. Additionally, individuals undergo a significant redefinition of their self-concept, as they attempt to understand who they are without their ex-partner. This compounds upon the psychological distress symptoms that they feel from the loss of the relationship and is the most significant negative effect that people undergoing a breakup experience.\n\nA natural effect of the loss of a relationship that an individual had hoped to keep is grief, because the desire to keep relationships intact despite problems and complications is a natural human desire. This results in individuals undergoing a breakup displaying grief reactions that include symptoms like sleeplessness, depression, and thoughts about suicide. This tendency to express grief and depression is so prevalent that researchers point to it being a significant contributor to the first onset of major depressive disorder in young adults.\n\nThe extent of these grief reactions is not limited to the time frame immediately following the dissolution of the romantic relationship. Even some time after the breakup, people who are asked to recall depressing or negative events in their lives commonly make reference to traumatic events of this nature. This negative effect can be attributed to the severity of the grief reaction that people who suffer through a breakup display, making a significant mark in their lives that they are unlikely to forget.\n\nIn addition to these specific negative effects, individuals who are suffering through a breakup report a general decline in their psychological well-being. The general negative emotion that they feel often triggers other behaviors and habits that are either detrimental to their mental health or signify poor mental health conditions. These include:\n\n\nA behavior that has been noticed following some breakups is the prevalence of stalking as one partner attempts to maintain unwanted contact from another. This type of behavior exists on a scale that stretches from an amicable breakup with no unwanted harassment behaviors all the way to stalking behaviors that are threatening and distressful to the partner. This behavior stems from an unhappiness with the circumstances following the dissolution of the relationship, as well as a misguided belief that the stalking behavior may result in the reforming of the relationship. This is partly due to the observation that there is no clear definition of stalking behavior that differentiate it from social acceptable activities, instead focusing on the persistent and unwanted nature of the acts being committed by the individual.\n\nEvidence shows that even in the direst of situations, there is a chance for positive emotions and growth. Breakups are no different, giving victims opportunities for stress-related growth, improving their performance in future relationships, and providing feelings of relief and freedom.\n\nIndividuals that are placed under stressful situations are often faced with an opportunity for growth and development as a result of this stress. Without this push to improve, individuals are often pushed towards complacency and refuse to make the necessary efforts to progress through life. Different ways in which people have exhibited growth following a stressful life event include improvements to the way a person views themselves, the way they connect with other people around them, or their overall approach to life. Research shows that breakups are highly representative of this type of stressful situation, as individuals experience them several times throughout their lives and have been known to self-report instances of growth because of the experience.\n\nAnother positive outcome that has been observed to follow breakup has to do with the lessons that people may have learned from going through the painful experience. The stress-related growth that a person is forced to experience following a breakup causes improvements to their overall character, self-image, and ability to interact with others. These improvements have the potential to improve the quality of future romantic relationships with other people. This is due to the increased level of maturity displayed by the individual as well as, to a lesser extent, insight into certain things that they must avoid in a relationship to ensure satisfaction from their partners.\n\nWhile this may not necessarily a universal positive consequence that affects all people going through a breakup, there is significant evidence towards certain individuals experiencing feelings of relief, freedom, and happiness following the end of a relationship. There is a high likelihood that these individuals were the one who initiated the breakup in the first place, but research has shown that there have been cases where individuals that have been victims of a breakup recognize that their past relationship was sub-optimal, which allows them to display the same emotions of relief, freedom, and happiness.\n\nWhile individuals that have experienced a breakup are likely to experience a number of different positive and negative effects once the relationship has run its course, different people can be expect these to manifest in varying degrees. This is because there are several mitigating factors that can either minimize or amplify the extent to which one feels the consequences of a breakup. The list of potential factors that have been shown to moderate the effects that an individual might feel are categorized and listed below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37312794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312794", "title": "Brown v Galbraith", "text": "Brown v Galbraith\n\nBrown and Davis v Galbraith [1972] 1 WLR 997 is an English unjust enrichment law case, concerning to what extent enrichment of the defendant must be at the expense of the claimant.\n\nBrown and Davis sued Mr Galbraith for their price in repairing Mr Galbraith’s Lotus after a collision, because his insurer had gone insolvent. Mr Galbraith's comprehensive insurance policy, said he would pay £25 on any claim, and the insurance company would cover the rest. The garage's quote was labour costs of £165, and spare parts coming up to £373, with the excess deducted. The insurers’ assessor completed a document on 21 July 1970 authorising repair only at a lower sum, though Mr Galbraith was not told. It said ‘To be collected by repairer – excess £25 and contribution £4 10s to towing’. And ‘N.B. The insured’s confirmation should be obtained concerning these items.’ The work was done, Mr Galbraith collected the car, the garage billed the insurer, but Mr Galbraith did not agree the repairs were satisfactory and so the insurers did not pay. The garage sued Mr Galbraith in the County Court. The insurance company went insolvent. The repairers agreed they had looked to the insurers for payment generally.\n\nCroydon County Court Judge held there were two contracts, one between the insurers and the garage in the 21 July document, and two an implied contract between the garage and the owner for payment if the insurers did not come up. Therefore the owner could be liable for the full sum.\n\nCairns LJ held there was an implied contract between the garage and Mr Galbraith. But the facts did not show the owner contracted to pay anything beyond £25. Therefore the extra £4 10s could not be recovered. It was not necessary to imply a contract, beyond the £25 excess that Mr Galbraith had undertaken to pay.\n\nBuckley LJ gave a concurring judgment, finding there was no evidence for an inference for implying a contract to pay over the excess.\n\nSachs LJ gave a concurring judgment.\n\n"}
{"id": "30996877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30996877", "title": "Center for the Study of the Public Domain", "text": "Center for the Study of the Public Domain\n\nThe Center for the Study of the Public Domain, based at Duke Law School, aims to redress the balance of academic study of intellectual property. In their analysis, academic focus has been too great on the incentives created by these rights, rather than the contribution to creativity from information which is not subject to them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2310541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2310541", "title": "Clerical error", "text": "Clerical error\n\nA clerical error is an error on the part of an office worker, often a secretary or personal assistant. It is a phrase which can also be used as an excuse to deflect blame away from specific individuals, such as high-powered executives, and instead redirect it to the more anonymous clerical staff.\n\nA clerical error in a legal document is called a scrivener's error. \n\nThere is a considerable body of case law concerning the proper treatment of a scrivener's error. For example, where the parties to a contract make an oral agreement that, when reduced to a writing, is mistranscribed, the aggrieved party is entitled to reformation so that the writing corresponds to the oral agreement.\n\nA scrivener's error can be grounds for an appellate court to remand a decision back to the trial court. For example, in \"Ortiz v. State of Florida,\" Ortiz had been convicted of possession of less than 20 g of marijuana, a misdemeanor. However, Ortiz was mistakenly adjudicated guilty of a felony for the count of marijuana possession. The appellate court held that \"we must remand the case to the trial court to correct a scrivener's error.\"\n\nIn some circumstances, courts can also correct scrivener's errors found in primary legislation.\n\nOver 18 minutes of the Watergate tapes were erased by Richard Nixon's secretary in a claimed clerical error. Some writers have suggested that this may have changed the course of American history.\n\n"}
{"id": "34107965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34107965", "title": "Collective administration of copyrights", "text": "Collective administration of copyrights\n\nCollection administration of copyrights describes the use of collective societies to manage licenses for copyrighted material belonging to more than one copyright owner. These collective societies are responsible for granting permission to use the works they manage and setting out what conditions users of their works must follow. Examples of collective societies in Canada include: Christian Video Licensing International (licensing audiovisual programs to religious institutions) and the Canadian Broadcasters Rights Agency (licensing of programming owned by Canadian television stations and networks.)\n\nReasons justifying the practice of collective administration of copyrights often pertain to debates over the economic efficiency of such policies. Collective administration of copyrights in Canada differs from collective administration policies in other common law jurisdictions such as the United States and United Kingdom. Consequently, the justifications for Canadian collective administration will not necessarily be identical to that of other systems.\n\nThe expression \"collective society\" was defined in Canada by the Bill C-32 amendment of the \"Copyright Act of Canada\" in 1997. Although Parliament was dissolved before Bill C-32 made it through its second reading, Bill C-11, which contains identical language, has since been reintroduced by Parliament:\n\nThis definition divides collective societies into four legal regimes: music and performing rights, general collective administration, particular cases (retransmissions and certain educational uses), and private copying levies.\n\nThe performance or telecommunication of musical works and sound recordings of musical works is regulated in s.67 of the Copyright Act.\nAlthough authors may theoretically protect their copyrighted works without participating in a collective, in practice the Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada (SOCAN) holds virtually all musical works performed in Canada within its repertoire.\n\nVoluntary licensing schemes that do not fall under s.67 fall instead within s.70.1 barring the existence of another applicable regulatory scheme. Nonetheless, collective management organizations under s.67 collect and distribute more funds than those under s.70.1. In practice, the following types of copyrights are covered by the general regime:\n\n\nSections 71-76 of the \"Copyright Act\" create a regime regulating involuntary licences for the retransmission of distant radio and televisions signals and the reproduction and public performance by education institutions of radio and television programs for educational or training purposes. Eight retransmission copyright management organizations are covered at least in part by this regime:\n\n\nPrivate copying of sound recordings is dealt with by a regime established in 1998 specifically for that purpose. This regime makes an exception to copyright infringement for copies of music for private use. The regime does not involve licensing. Instead it remunerates copyright holders by collecting funds through the Canadian Private Copying Collective and sets out a share of these funds which all eligible authors, performers, and makers or record producers are entitled.\n\nThe Copyright Board of Canada is an independent administrative tribunal consisting of at most five members appointed to five year terms by the government. A small permanent staff is provided to the Board which includes a Secretary General, General Counsel and Director of Research and Analysis. Unique among Canadian regulatory agencies, the Chairman of the Board tends to be drawn from sitting or retired judges of a superior court. The reasons for this are entirely historical.\n\nProposed tariffs must be filed before March 31 of the year before the year in which the tariff will come into effect. Proposed tariffs are published by the Board in the \"Canada Gazette\". Objections by users to this proposal must be filed within 60 days following the Gazette's publication. These objections may then be decided before a panel with the procedures and timetable issued by the Board. Although the rules of evidence are not binding for the Board, the Board does provide written reasons for its decision.\n\nThe Copyright Board's ability to handle the volume of complaints that arise from collective administration of copyright has often been characterized as slow and expensive. Legal scholars have argued that a number of structural elements of the Canadian system contribute to these inefficiencies including mandatory filing of tariffs by collective management organizations and the Board's inability to award costs.\n\nIt can be argued that collective administration of copyright creates monopolies that lead to economic inefficiencies. Collective management organizations, for example, are only capable of categorizing different copyrighted works into broad categories due to the limitations of regulatory specificity. Consequently, some copyrighted works will be licensed according to the average value of the works in the same category and not the value of the specific work.\n\nThe failure to provide a license based on the value of the specific work in question means that payments to copy copyrighted works do not reflect the actual value of the copying.\n\nLegal scholars such as Ariel Katz have argued that these inefficiencies may be unnecessary as there exist reasonable alternatives to collective administration of copyright, especially with the immergence of new technology that might facilitate alternative systems of managing copyright licensing. The idea that effective administration of copyright licenses necessitates single entity monopolies may be argued against, for example, by considering copyright regimes in which licensing is regulated by multiple collective management organizations without any apparent ill-effect. In addition Katz cites the \"superstar phenomenon\" which recognizes that the vast majority of copyright royalties are payments for works belonging to a disproportionately small number of individuals. Given that license sales are actually not widely dispersed among copyright owners, Katz argues that there is no reason to suppose that direct transactions between licensees and copyright holders would be impractical.\n\n"}
{"id": "17597588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17597588", "title": "Colorado Criminal Defense Bar", "text": "Colorado Criminal Defense Bar\n\nThe Colorado Criminal Defense Bar (founded May 8, 1979) is a professional association of attorneys, investigators, and paralegals who represent persons accused of crime. The CCDB (as it is abbreviated) was created and established by attorneys Michael F. DiManna, Harold A. Haddon, Gary M. Jackson, Bryan Morgan, and Peter H. Ney, a Judge of the Colorado Court of Appeals — all of Denver, Colorado — and William Gray of Boulder, Colorado (CCDB website). The \"President's Council\" comprises \"former presidents of the CCDB and is chaired by the current President of the CCDB\" (\"President's Council\", CCDB website).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27385744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27385744", "title": "Copyright Act 1956", "text": "Copyright Act 1956\n\nThe Copyright Act 1956 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which received its royal assent on 5 November 1956. The Copyright Act 1956 expanded copyright law in the UK and was passed in order to bring copyright law of the United Kingdom in line with international copyright law and technological developments.\n\n"}
{"id": "220021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220021", "title": "Court of Cassation (France)", "text": "Court of Cassation (France)\n\nThe Court of Cassation (; ) is one of the four courts of last resort in France. It has jurisdiction over all civil and criminal matters triable in the judicial system, and is the supreme court of appeal in these cases. It has jurisdiction to review the law, and to certify qestions of law, to determine miscarriages of justice. The Court is located in the Palace of Justice in Paris.\n\nThe Court does not have juisdiction over cases involving claims against administrators or public bodies, which fall within the jurisdiction of administrative courts, for which the Council of State acts as the supreme court of appeal; nor over cases involving constitutional issues, which fall within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Council; nor over cases involving disputes about which of these courts has jusridiction, which are heard by the Jurisdictional Disputes Tribunal. Collectively, these four courts form the topmost tier of the French court system.\n\nThe Court was established in 1790 under the name \"Tribunal de cassation\" during the French Revolution, and its original purpose was to act as a court of error with revisory jurisdiction over lower provincial prerogative courts (\"Parlements\"). However, much about the Court continues the earlier Paris Parlement.\n\nThe Court is the seat of the Network of the Presidents of the Supreme Judicial Courts of the European Union.\n\nThe Court is made up of justices, the Office of the Prosecutor, and an Administrative Office of Courts. In addition, a separate bar of specially certified barristers exists for trying cases at the French Court.\n\nOverall, the Court consists of nearly 85 trial judges (\"conseillers\") and about 40 deputy judges (\"conseillers référendaires\"), each divided among six different divisions (\"chambres\"):\n\nEach division is headed by a presiding justice referred to in French as a \"président\", or President of Division. The Chief Justice bears the title of the \"premier président\", or President of the Court, who supervises the presiding justices of the various divisions. The Chief Justice is the highest-ranking judicial officer in the country and is responsible for administration of the Court and the discipline of justices. The current Chief Justice is . The Court also includes 12 masters (\"auditeurs\"), the lowest rank of justice, who are primarily concerned with administration.\n\nThere is, in addition to the abovementioned six divisions, a separate organization known as the Divisional Court (\"chambre mixte\"). The Divisional Court adjudicates where the subject matter of an appeal falls within the purview of multiple divisions. The Bench of the Divisional Court seats the Chief Justice and a number of other judges from at least three other divisions relevant to a given case. Any participating division is represented by its Presiding Justice and two puisne judges.\n\nFinally, a Full Court (\"Assemblée plénière\") is called, presided over by the Chief Justice or, if he is absent, by the most senior presiding justice. It also seat by all divisional presiding justices and senior justices assisted by a puisne judge from each division. The Full Court is the highest level of the Court.\n\nThe prosecution, or \"parquet général\", is headed by the Chief Prosecutor (\"procureur général\"). The Chief Prosecutor is a judicial officer, but does not actually prosecute cases; instead, his function is to advise the Court on how to proceed, analogous to the Commissioner-in-Council's role within the Conseil d'État (lit. Council of State, but function may vary). Duties include filing originating motions to bring cases before the Court \"in the name of the law\" and bringing cases before the French Court of Justice (\"Cour de justice de la République\"), which tries government officials for crimes committed while in office. The Chief Prosecutor is assisted by two Chief Deputy Prosecutors (\"premiers avocats généraux\") and a staff of about 22 deputy prosecutors (\"avocats généraux\"), and 2 assistant prosecutors (\"substituts\").\n\nBarristers (\"avocats\"), though not technically officers of the Court, play an integral role in the due dispensing of justice. Except for a few types of actions, advocate counsel in the form of a barrister is mandatory for any case heard at the Court or Council of State. Barristers with exclusive rights of audience and admitted to practice law in either senior court carry the title of \"avocat au Conseil d'État et à la Cour de Cassation\", or \"avocats aux Conseils\" (\"Counsel at Senior Court\") for short. Admission to the Supreme Court bar is particularly difficult, requiring special training and passing a notoriously stringent examination. Once admitted, bar members can advise litigants on whether their actions are justiciable, that is, issuable and exceeding de minimis requirements—an important service since the Court only hears appeals on points of law and not issues of fact. Membership is restricted to 60 total positions and is considered a public office.\n\nThe Court's main purpose is to review lower court rulings on the grounds of legal or procedural error. As the highest court of law in France, it also has other duties.\n\nThe Court has inherent appellate jurisdiction for appeals (called \"pourvois en cassation\") from courts of appeal or, for certain types of small claims cases not appealable to appellate courts, from courts of record. The Supreme Court reviews the appeal on the record and may affirm or set aside lower court rulings; if set aside, the ruling is said to be \"cassé\" (French for \"quashed\"), hence the French name of \"Cour de cassation\", or \"Quashing Court\". The Court adjudicates by strict appeal, or appeal \"stricto sensu\", which is limited to review of the decision and of the decision-making process on a point of law, and may only allow the appeal in cases of serious error; fresh evidence is not admissible. The typical outcome of a successful appeal is setting aside of the lower court's decision and remittal for reconsideration.\n\nAn intermediate appellate court, the Cour d'appel, hears general appeals \"de novo\" on points of law and procedure as well as errors of fact and reasoning. The Court of Cassation only decides matters of points of law or procedure on the record, as opposed to factual errors. Lower courts may petition the Court for an interlocutory order during the proceedings on any new and complex point of law; any such order, however, is not final or conclusive.\n\nA case is heard by a bench of three or five relevant divisional justices. For either civil or criminal appeals, the bench seats by three judges unless the Chief Justice or the divisional presiding justice orders a Full Bench of five judges. Furthermore, any one of the three judges originally assigned to the Bench may order it expanded to five. If the case falls in the legal areas handled by more than one division, the Chief Justice may order the Divisional Court, rather than a Bench, to consider the case.\n\nThe Court can affirm a decision from below by dismissing the appeal (\"rejet du pourvoi\") or overturn or amend the decision by allowing the appeal (\"accueil du pourvoi\"). If it finds that the lower court erred, it sets aside the lower court decision and remits the case with its opinion to an appellate court for reconsideration (\"cassation avec renvoi\"). If only a portion of a ruling is overturned, it is called \"cassation partielle\", or partial setting aside. Sometimes, the Court may overturn a lower court ruling and judge the case \"ex proprio motu\" without being petitioned (\"cassation sans renvoi\"), as long as the merits and facts of the case are on record.\n\nWhen overturned, the case is remanded to a second appellate court, in other words not the appellate court whose decision is being appealed; never to the same judges. The decision of the Bench of the Court of Cassation or Divisional Court is not binding on the lower court, and the appellate court has full discretion to decide the case, but the higher court's ruling has persuasive authority. The appellate court's ruling may again be appealed to the Court of Cassation. If so, the Full Court hears and judges the case. It may, again, uphold an earlier decision or reverse it and remand the case to another appellate court. In the latter case, the determination of the Full Court is binding; the facts, however, may be reviewed by the court retrying the case.\n\nPublished judgments are extremely brief, containing a statement of the case—citing relevant statutory authorities—and a summary of ruling. The ruling does not contain a ratio decidendi in the style of common-law jurisdictions. Instead, it is left to legal experts to explain the importance of rulings. The Court often drastically changes the way the Civil Code or other statutory laws are interpreted. Legal digests, such as the \"Recueil Dalloz\", and treatises written by legal scholars analyze and explain rulings through precedents. Much of this information is available through online databases.\n\nUnlike common-law jurisdictions, there is no doctrine of binding precedent (stare decisis) in France. Therefore, previous decisions of higher courts do not bind lower courts in the same hierarchy, though they are often followed and have persuasive authority. Instead, the French legal system subscribes to the legal doctrine of \"jurisprudence constante\" according to which courts should follow a series of decisions that are in accord with each other and judges should rule on their own interpretation of the law.\n\nMajor felonies (indictable offences), called \"crimes\" in French, are tried by jury in a county Court of Assizes. In the past, their decisions were not open to appeal in an intermediate appellate court, and before 2001, could only be appealed to the Supreme Court. The Court would review the case on points of procedure and law only, and when handing down a reversal, which was uncommon except for capital punishment cases, vested a second Court of Assizes to retry the case. An argument in favor of this system was that allowing appeals to be tried by active judges after having been decided by a jury would in essence deny popular sovereignty. Since 2001, Assize court rulings may be appealed on points of fact to a Court of Assizes in another county, vested by the Court, and before a larger jury. The case is then fully retried. For procedural issues, appeals to the Supreme Court are still possible since assize courts, which operate by jury trial, would not be competent to hear them.\n\nWhere no appeal has been made but the government disagrees with the lower court's interpretation of the law, it may order the Chief Prosecutor to \"lay an appeal before the Court in the interest of law\" (\"former un pourvoi dans l'intérêt de la loi\"), i.e., appeal to certify a question of general public importance. The Chief Prosecutor may do so \"sua sponte\" or at the Court's behest in either civil or criminal cases. The Court will then issue an advisory opinion which has no bearing on the lower court's ruling since it was satisfactory to all parties involved and no motion was made to appeal. If the government is dissatisfied with the law as stated by the courts, it may ask Parliament to rewrite the law, as long as no constitutional issue is involved.\n\nThe Court publishes an annual report on the French court system. The report includes a section with suggested changes to laws concerning the legal system, including criminal procedure. The Court awards damages to defendants exonerated after incarceration. Some high-level members of the court are ex officio members of special ad hoc courts; the investigatory commission of the High Court of Justice (\"Haute Cour de Justice\"), which may be convened to try the French President for high treason; the French Court of Justice (\"Cour de Justice de la République\"), which may be convened to try current or former cabinet ministers for crimes committed while in office; and the National Judicial Council (\"Conseil supérieur de la magistrature\"), which serves as a court of judicial discipline and disciplinary counsel. The High Court of Justice has never been convened during the Fifth Republic and the French Court of Justice, only rarely.\n\nThe Court is not the only court of last resort in France. Cases involving claims against government bodies, local authorities, or the central government, including all delegated legislation (e.g., statutory instruments, ministerial orders), are heard by the administrative courts, for which the court of last resort is the Conseil d'État. In cases where there appears to be concurrent jurisdiction or a conflict of laws between the judicial and administrative courts, whether both retain jurisdiction (\"positive dispute\") or decline jurisdiction (\"negative dispute\"), the Jurisdictional Disputes Court (\"Tribunal des Conflits\") decides the issue. The Court is composed of 4 members from both senior courts and occasionally, to break a tie, the justice minister who, if present, presides.\n\nNeither court has the power to strike down primary legislation such as acts of Parliament). The courts can, however, refuse to apply any statutory provision they consider inconsistent with France's international treaty obligations. Constitutional review lies in the Constitutional Council, which can strike down any law that it deems unconstitutional. Before a law is enacted, the French President, the speaker of either house of Parliament, or, more commonly, 60 parliamentarians from the same house may petition the Council for review. Some laws, mostly constitutional laws (\"loi organique\"), come before the Constitutional Council for review without first being petitioned. Courts may adopt a restrictive approach to applying statute. A 2009 reform, effective on 1 March 2010, enables parties to a lawsuit or trial to question the constitutionality of the law that is being applied to them. The procedure, known as \"question prioritaire de constitutionnalité\", is broadly as follows: the question is raised before the trial judge and, if it has merit, it is forwarded to the appropriate supreme court (Council of State if the referral comes from an administrative court, Cour de Cassation for other courts). The supreme court collects such referrals and submits them to the Constitutional Council. If the Constitutional Council rules a law is unconstitutional, the law is struck down and no longer has legal force; this decision applies to everybody and not just the appelant in the case at hand.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) has jurisdiction over claims of government violations in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights in any ECHR member country, which includes all EU member countries. Before the ECtHR grants appeal, a claimant must have exhausted all available judicial recourse in the violating country; in France this means following the appeals process to either of the senior courts. Even so, the ECtHR has original jurisdiction, not appellate jurisdiction.\n\nAdditionally, French courts may petition the European Court of Justice to certify a question of law concerning EU law.\n\n"}
{"id": "26962599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26962599", "title": "Direct debit dividend contributions", "text": "Direct debit dividend contributions\n\nDirect Debit Dividend Contributions also known as 3DC are payments made towards shareholders for shares which have been issued on credit.\n\nIssuing stock on credit is considered appropriate when a Stakeholder (such as company's founder or other key person) wishes to retain involvement in a business but is unable to raise the capital required to pay for stock. In such circumstances the company's shareholders may agree to issue the desired level of stock against a plan where shares must be paid for through direct debit dividend contributions. 3DC differs from Stock options in that the recipient is awarded shareholder status from the moment the 3DC arrangement is agreed.\n\n3DC is often regarded as a reward for efforts achieved (usually for the groundwork required in setting up a new business). It also serves as an incentive to ensure future performance of the company's stock.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3607352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3607352", "title": "Dog licence", "text": "Dog licence\n\nA dog licence is required in some jurisdictions to be the keeper of a dog. Usually a dog-licence identifying number is issued to the owner, along with a dog tag bearing the identifier and a contact number for the registering organization. If a stray pet is found with the tag, a rescuer can call the registering organization to get current contact information for the dog's owner.\n\nLicensing a dog might require additional actions on the owner's part, such as ensuring that the dog has a current rabies vaccination. In many jurisdictions a fee, which is usually small, must be paid. Licences typically must be renewed annually or after some small number of years.\n\nDog licences are mandated by state and territory legislation but are issued by local governments (e.g., city or shire councils). Hence the cost of a licence and the format of the licence tag vary across the country. Some areas, such as Victoria, require cat registration and microchipping also.\n\nDog licences are required. There are three types of licences\n\nSince 2008 an identification microchip is mandatory for each dog over 2 months, and a small fee is associated with it, but it does not need to be renewed.\n\nDogs must be registered and a yearly tax is paid to the municipality based on the number of dogs. The amount differs between municipalities; for example in The Hague it is €112.80 for the first dog, €176.76 for the second one, and €224.16 for the third one. Other municipalities have scrapped it like Amsterdam in 2016.\n\nUnder the Dog Control Act 1996 all dogs over 3 months old are required to be registered with the city or district council the dog usually resides in. As a prerequisite, all dogs classified as dangerous or menacing, and all dogs first registered in New Zealand after 1 July 2006 must be microchipped before they can be registered.\n\nIn England, Wales and Scotland, dog licensing was abolished in 1987. Prior to this dog licences were mandatory, but the requirement was widely ignored, with only about half of owners having one. The final rate for a dog licence was 37 pence, reduced from 37½p when the halfpenny was withdrawn in 1984. This figure was an exact conversion from 7/6 (seven shillings and sixpence) on decimalisation in 1971. The revenue went to local authorities. In 2016 it became a requirement that all dogs in England and Wales have a microchip; Scottish legislation was also changed to make microchipping of dogs compulsory from 2016.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, dog licences are required under the Dogs (Northern Ireland) Order 1983. dog licences cost £12.50 a year, with reductions for pensioners and owners of neutered dogs.\n\nDog owners in Guernsey are required to obtain a licence for each dog owned and a dog tax is payable each year.\n\nDog licences are required.\n\nAt least some states, municipalities, and other jurisdictions require a dog license and rabies vaccination, and a license expires before the vaccine does. To prevent animal overpopulation, some jurisdictions charge a lower licensing fee if the owner presents veterinary proof that the dog has been spayed or neutered. Some parts of California and Maryland require cat licenses.\n"}
{"id": "1789028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789028", "title": "Emer de Vattel", "text": "Emer de Vattel\n\nEmer (Emmerich) de Vattel (25 April 1714 – 28 December 1767) was an international lawyer. He was born in Couvet in Neuchâtel (now Switzerland) in 1714 and died in 1767 of edema. He was largely influenced by Dutch jurist Hugo Grotius. He is most famous for his 1758 work \"The Law of Nations\". This work was his claim to fame and won him enough prestige to be appointed as a councilor to the court of Frederick Augustus II of Saxony.\n\nVattel's masterpiece was largely influenced by a book titled \"Jus Gentium Methodo Scientifica Pertractum\" (The Law of Nations According to the Scientific Method) by Christian Wolff. Vattel's work began, in fact, by translating Wolff's text from Latin, and adding his own thoughts. Vattel's work was also heavily influenced by Gottfried Leibniz and Hugo Grotius. Focused largely on the rights and obligations of citizens and states, Vattel's work also had ramifications for Just War Theory as it outlined international diplomacy as we now know it.\n\nVattel elucidated the \"Golden Rule of Sovereigns\":\n\nOne cannot complain when he is treated as he treats others.\n\nVattel’s \"Law of Nations\" was translated into English in 1760, based on the French original of 1758. A Dublin translation of 1787 does not include notes from the original nor posthumous notes added to the 1773 French edition. Several other English editions were based on the edition of 1760. However, an English edition from 1793 includes Vattel’s later thoughts, as did the London 1797 edition. The 1797 edition has a detailed table of contents and margin titles for subsections.\n\nCharles W.F. Dumas sent Benjamin Franklin three original French copies of de Vattel's \"Le droit des gens\" (\"The Law of Nations\"). Franklin presented one copy to the Library Company of Philadelphia. On December 9, 1775, Franklin thanked Dumas:\n\nIt came to us in good season, when the circumstances of a rising State make it necessary to frequently consult the Law of Nations.\nFranklin also said that this book by Vattel, \"has been continually in the hands of the members of our Congress now sitting\".\n\nTwo notable copies of \"The Law of Nations\" owned by the New York Society Library have been associated with US President George Washington. One copy had been borrowed by Washington on 8 October 1789, along with a copy of Vol. 12 of the \"Commons Debates\", containing transcripts from Great Britain's House of Commons. When the staff of the Washington museum at Mount Vernon heard about the overdue books, they were unable to locate them, but purchased a second copy of the de Vattel work for US$12,000. This identical copy was ceremoniously \"returned\" 221 years late on 20 May 2010. The library waived the unpaid late-fees.\n\nVattel also published works other than his \"magnum opus\". His last work was written in 1762 and concerned Wolff's natural law philosophy.\n\nVattel was one of a number of 18th century European scholars who wrote on international law and were \"well known in America\" at the time, including Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui, Cornelius van Bynkershoek, Hugo Grotius, Samuel von Pufendorf, Thomas Rutherforth, Niccolo Machiavelli, and Wolff. \"The Law of Nations\" has been described as \"unrivaled among such treatises in its influence on the American founders\".\n\nVattel is also cited extensively in Lysander Spooner's \"The Unconstitutionality Of Slavery\" and appears to be a key Enlightenment thinker in Spooner's thought.\n\nIn 2015 the United States Department of Defense published its Law of War Manual. Vattel is cited after Hugo Grotius and before Francis Lieber and Hersch Lauterpacht as a subsidiary means and an authority in determining the rules of law of war.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37584261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37584261", "title": "Federal Interpleader Act of 1936", "text": "Federal Interpleader Act of 1936\n\nThe Federal Interpleader Act of 1936 was United States federal legislation enacted by the 74th United States Congress approved January 20, 1936.\n\nThe Act repealed and replaced the existing federal interpleader act approved May 8, 1926 and codified it as United States Judicial Code §41(26), and established the modern statutory interpleader. The act was drafted by Zechariah Chafee, who considered this his foremost professional accomplishment.\nThe Federal Interpleader Act was enacted to overcome the ruling of the United States Supreme Court in New York Life v. Dunlevy , that for a party to be bound by an interpleader that party must be served process in a way that obtains personal jurisdiction by enabling nationwide service of process. The original act Federal Interpleader Act of 1917 allowed an insurance company, or fraternal benefit society subject to multiple claims on the same policy to file a suit in equity by a bill of interpleader in United States District Courts and providing nationwide service of process. The policy must have a value of at least $500 is claimed or may be claimed by adverse claimants; which is less than the amount in controversy of $3,000 in Judicial Code §48(1) then required for general diversity jurisdiction. Two or more of the beneficiaries must live in different states.\n\nThe 1917 act was amended in 1925 by approved February 25, 1925. This element of civil procedure was subsequently in 1926 was repealed and replaced by, approved May 8, 1926, which added to those who can bring suit casualty company and surety company, empowered the court to enjoin claimant from proceeding in any state or other federal court on the same liability, adding provisions as to the proper venue for the interpleader in certain cases but required that there must be actual claims by eliminating the words \"may claim\" that were in the 1917 act.\n\nWhen the United States Judicial Code was enacted into United States Code as positive law in 1948, approved June 25, 1948, it was reconstituted as , , and .\n\nSection one of the act codified as United States Judicial Code §41(26) the following:\n\nSection 2 repeals the existing Federal Interpleader Act 28 USC 41(26) (1934).\n"}
{"id": "5539812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5539812", "title": "Ferko v. National Ass'n for Stock Car Auto Racing, Inc.", "text": "Ferko v. National Ass'n for Stock Car Auto Racing, Inc.\n\nFerko, et al. v. National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, Inc., et al., commonly known as the Ferko lawsuit, was an American lawsuit between plaintiff Francis Ferko, a resident of Plano, Texas and a minor shareholder of the publicly traded Speedway Motorsports, Inc. (SMI), and defendants NASCAR and International Speedway Corporation (ISC), which are both owned by the France family. Ferko, a racing fan not associated with the executive management team of SMI, contended that the defendants violated antitrust laws in preventing SMI's Texas Motor Speedway from obtaining a promised second NASCAR NEXTEL Cup race per racing season. The suit was filed in February 2002, and was settled out of court in May 2004. The settlement delivered a second Sprint Cup race each season to the track, but also resulted in numerous other changes to the NASCAR schedule of races and racing venues.\n\nAs the case was preparing to go to trial in 2004, the parties settled the lawsuit as part of a larger restructuring of NASCAR's schedule. In the settlement, ISC sold the North Carolina Speedway in Rockingham (now known as Rockingham Speedway) to Speedway Motorsports, but Rockingham's one NEXTEL Cup race (which had been held in February) was moved to ISC's Auto Club Speedway in Fontana, California. Continuing with NASCAR's schedule realignment, Texas earned its promised second race (the reason for the lawsuit) when a November race, used for the prestigious Southern 500 (renamed the Dickies 500 in Texas), was moved to Texas from ISC's Darlington Raceway. As it happens, the November date had been inherited by Darlington from Rockingham only a year earlier, when Rockingham had been reduced from two NEXTEL Cup races to one. The November date gave Texas a race in the Chase for the Nextel Cup and cost Darlington the more prestigious of its two race dates. For its part, SMI had to agree that Rockingham would be used only for non-competition NASCAR uses, such as for movie settings about the sport or for testing. As a result of a 2006 NASCAR testing rule change limiting testing on tracks used for NASCAR competition, testing at Rockingham has become more commonplace. SMI sold off the Rockingham track in 2007. \n\nFerko's life fell apart as a direct result of the lawsuit. In 2002, he lost his job in food safety, because his boss disliked the publicity that Ferko received, and he and his wife were forced to move to Atlanta for his new job. Shortly after moving, their 20-year-old son Anthony, who remained in Texas to be with his own 6-month-old son, committed suicide, which Ferko believes may have been avoided if they had stayed in Texas with him. After Ferko and his wife failed to win custody of their grandson, they divorced.\n\nThe management team of SMI never rewarded Ferko, a fan and minor shareholder, for winning them a race slot worth millions of dollars. In 2005, before the initial running of the Dickies 500, Ferko expressed his disappointment in SMI not asking him to wave the green flag at the race, and said that \"[k]nowing what I know now, I definitely would not have pursued [the lawsuit]... I never expected those kinds of unintended consequences to occur.\"\n\nIn 2005, Kentucky Speedway filed a similar suit against NASCAR and ISC, requesting a NEXTEL Cup race at their venue. However, unlike the promise of a second race at the heart of the Ferko lawsuit, the France family had expressly told Kentucky Speedway that it would not be given even one race, and so the case was filed on antitrust grounds only. The lawsuit was dismissed on January 7, 2008, although the track's owners appealed the dismissal. On May 22, 2008, Speedway Motorsports, Inc. announced it had purchased Kentucky Speedway from Kentucky Speedway, LLC and further litigation became moot as a result. The purchase was finalized on January 1, 2009. Bruton Smith, head of Speedway Motorsports Inc. who bought the racetrack, said he had plans to bring a Sprint Cup race to Kentucky Speedway. That came in 2011 when Kentucky Speedway gained a date at the expense of Atlanta Motor Speedway, its sister track.\n\n"}
{"id": "1609595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1609595", "title": "Great Assembly", "text": "Great Assembly\n\nAccording to Jewish tradition the Great Assembly () or Anshei Knesset HaGedolah (, \"The Men of the Great Assembly\"), also known as the Great Synagogue, or \"Synod\", was an assembly of 120 scribes, sages, and prophets, in the period from the end of the Biblical prophets since the early Second Temple period to the early Hellenistic period. It comprised such prophets as Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi (who is Ezra), Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, Azariah, Nehemiah b. Hachaliah, Mordechai and Zerubabel b. Shaaltiel, among others. Sometimes, the Great Assembly is simply designated as \"Ezra and his court of law\" (\"Beit Din\").\n\nAmong the developments in Judaism that are attributed to them are the fixing of the Jewish Biblical canon, including the Book of Ezekiel, Daniel, Esther, and the Twelve Minor Prophets; the introduction of the Feast of Purim; and the institution of the prayer known as the \"Shemoneh 'Esreh\" as well as the synagogal prayers, rituals, and benedictions.\n\nSome modern scholars question whether the Great Assembly ever existed as an institution as such. Louis Jacobs, while not endorsing this view, remarks that \"references in the [later] Rabbinic literature to the Men of the Great Synagogue can be taken to mean that ideas, rules, and prayers, seen to be pre-Rabbinic but post-biblical, were often fathered upon them\".\n\nThe members of the Great Assembly are designated in the Mishnah (Ab. i. 1) as those who occupied a place in the chain of tradition between the Prophets and the earliest scholars known by name.\n\nThe Prophets transmitted the Torah to the men of the Great Synagogue. . . . Simon the Just was one of those who survived the Great Synagogue, and Antigonus of Soko received the Torah from him. (Ab. i. 1 et seq.).\n\nThe first part of this statement is paraphrased as follows in Ab. R. N. i.;\n\nHaggai, Zechariah, and Malachi received from the Prophets; and the men of the Great Synagogue received from Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi.\n\nIn this paraphrase the three post-exilic prophets are separated from the other prophets, for it was the task of the former to transmit the Law to the members of the Great Synagogue. It must even be assumed that these three prophets were themselves included in those members, for it is evident from the statements referring to the institution of the prayers and benedictions that the Great Synagogue included prophets.\n\nAccording to R. Johanan, who wrote in the third century, \nThe men of the Great Synagogue instituted for Israel the benedictions and the prayers, as well as the benedictions for Kiddush and habdalah (Ber. 33a).\n\nThis agrees with the sentence of R. Jeremiah (fourth century), who states (Yer. Ber. 4d), in reference to the \"Shemoneh 'Esreh,\" that\n\none hundred and twenty elders, including about eighty prophets, have instituted these prayers.\n\nThese one hundred and twenty elders are undoubtedly identical with the men of the Great Synagogue. The number given of the prophets must, however, be corrected according to Meg. 17b, where the source of R. Jeremiah's statement is found:\n\nR. Johanan said that, according to some, a baraita taught that one hundred and twenty elders, including some prophets, instituted the 'Shemoneh 'Esreh.'\n\nHence the prophets were in a minority in the Great Synagogue.\n\nAnother statement regarding the activity of this institution alludes to the establishment of the Feast of Purim according to Esth. ix. 27 et seq., while the Babylonian Talmud (Meg. 2a) states, as a matter requiring no discussion, that the celebration of the Feast of Purim on the days mentioned in Meg. i. 1 was instituted by the men of the Great Synagogue. But in the Jerusalem Talmud, R. Johanan (Meg. 70d; Ruth R. ii. 4) speaks of \"eighty-five elders, among them about thirty prophets.\"\n\nThese divergent statements may easily be reconciled (see Krochmal, \"Moreh Nebuke ha-Zeman,\" p. 97) by reading, in the one passage, \"beside them\" instead of \"among them\" ; and in the other passage, \"thirty\" instead of \"eighty.\"\n\nThe number eighty-five is taken from Neh. 10:2–29; but the origin of the entire number (120) is not known. It was undoubtedly assumed that the company of those mentioned in Neh. 10. was increased to one hundred and twenty by the prophets who took part in the sealing of the covenant, this view, which is confirmed by Neh. 7:7, 14, being based on the hypothesis that other prophets besides Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi were then preaching in Israel. These passages indicate that this assembly was believed to be the one described in Neh. 9–10, and other statements regarding it prove that the Amoraim accepted this identification as a matter of course.\n\nAccording to Abba b. Kahana, the well-known haggadist of the latter half of the third century (Shem-Tob on Ps. 36, end):\n\nTwo generations used the 'Shem ha-Meforesh,' the men of the Great Synagogue and the generation of the 'shemad' (the persecution of Hadrian and the Bar Kokba revolt).\n\nThis reference is explained in a statement by Giddel, a pupil of Rab (Yer. Meg. iii., end; Yoma 69b):\nThe word in Neh. 8:6 indicates that Ezra uttered the great Tetragram in his praise of God.\n\nThe combination of these two passages, which evidently have the same basis, offers another instance of the general assumption that all the members of this body were regarded as belonging to one generation, which included Ezra, while Joshua b. Levi, one of the earliest amoraim, even derived the term \"Great Synagogue\" from Neh. 9:32. The authors of the prayers restored the triad of the divine attributes introduced by Moses (Deut. 10:17), although Jeremiah (32:18) and Daniel (9:4) had each omitted one of the three attributes from their prayers. \"The Great Assembly was so called because it gave the divine attributes their ancient 'greatness' and dignity\" (Yoma 69b [with other authorities]; Yer. Ber. 11c and Meg. 74c; Shem-Ṭob on Ps. 19; see also Ber. 33b); although this is merely a haggadic explanation of the old term, it indicates that the Amoraim did not think the Great Synagogue could be any other assembly or council than the one mentioned as the source of the prayers in Neh. ix.; and there are other examples in traditional literature evidencing this view. In Yer. Ber. 3a (Gen. R. 46, 78.) this objection is raised in regard to a thesis of R. Levi based on Gen. 17:5 and referring to Neh. 9:7: \"Did not the men of the Great Synagogue call Abraham by his former name, Abram?\" In the name of the men of the Great Synagogue, R. Abbahu (Gen. R. vi.) quotes the words \"The heaven of heavens, with all their host\" (Neh. 9:6) as an explanation of Gen. 1:17; and the same authority is invoked in a haggadic passage by Abin (Tan., Shemot, i.) in reference to Neh. 9:5 (ib. 2, anonymous), as well as in one by Samuel b. Naḥman (Ex. R. xli., beginning; Tan., Ki Tissa, 14) alluding to Neh. 9:18.\n\nR. Johanan connected the following story with Neh. 10:1–2 (Ruth R. 2:4): \"The men of the Great Synagogue wrote a document in which they voluntarily agreed to pay heave-offerings and tithes. This document they displayed in the hall of the Temple; the following morning they found the divine confirmation inscribed upon it.\" Since Nehemiah himself was a member, Samuel b. Marta, a pupil of Rab, quoted a phrase used by Nehemiah in his prayer (1:7) as originating with his colleagues (Ex. R. 41; Tan., Peḳude, beginning). Ezra was, of course, one of the members, and, according to Neh. 8, he was even regarded as the leader. In one of the two versions of the interpretation of Cant. 7:14 (Lev. R. 2:11), therefore, Ezra and his companions (\"'Ezra wa-ḥaburato\") are mentioned, while the other version (Cant. R. ad loc.) speaks merely of the \"men of the Great Synagogue\" (compare the statements made above regarding the pronunciation of the Tetragram). In the targum to Cant. 7:3, in addition to \"Ezra the priest\" the men mentioned in Ezra 2:2 as the leaders of the people returning from the Exile—Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Mordecai, and Bilshan—are designated as \"men of the Great Synagogue.\" In the same targum (to 6:4) the leaders of the exiles are called the \"sages of the Great Synagogue.\"\n\nIt appears from all these passages in traditional literature that the idea of the Great Assembly was based on the narrative in Neh. 8–10, and that, furthermore, its members were regarded as the leaders of Israel who had returned from exile and laid the foundations of the new polity connected with the Second Temple. All these men were regarded in the tannaitic chronology as belonging to one generation; for this reason the \"generation of the men of the Great Synagogue\" is mentioned in one of the passages already cited, this denoting, according to the chronological canon of Jose b. Ḥalafta (Seder 'Olam Rabbah xxx. [ed. Ratner], p. 141); 'Ab. Zarah 86), the generation of thirty-four years during which the Persian rule lasted, at the beginning of the period of the Second Temple. As the last prophets were still preaching during this time, they also were included. That prophecy began only at the end of this period, when the reign of Alexander the Great commenced, was likewise a thesis of the tannaitic chronology, which, like the canon of the thirty-four years, was adopted by the later Jewish chronologists (Seder 'Olam Rabbah l.c.; comp. Sanh. 11a), although the view occurs as early as Josephus (\"Contra Ap.\" i., § 8).\n\nIn view of these facts, it was natural that the Great Synagogue should be regarded as the connecting-link in the chain of tradition between the Prophets and the scholars. It may easily be seen, therefore, why Simeon the Just should be termed a survivor of this body, for, according to the tradition current in the circle of scholars, it was this high priest, and not his grandfather Jaddua, who met Alexander the Great, and received from him much honor (see Yoma 69a; Meg. Ta'an. for the 21st of Kislew; comp. Alexander the Great).\n\nIt is thus evident that, according to the only authority extant in regard to the subject, the tradition of the Tannaim and the Amoraim, the activity of this assembly was confined to the period of the Persian rule, and thus to the first thirty-four years of the Second Temple, and that afterward, when Simon the Just was its only survivor, there was no other fixed institution which could be regarded as a precursor of the academies. This statement does not imply, however, that such a body did not exist in the first centuries of the Second Temple, for it must be assumed that some governing council existed in those centuries as well, although the statements regarding the Great Synagogue refer exclusively to the first period. The term primarily denoted the assembly described in Neh. 9–10, which convened principally for religious purposes—fasting, reading of the Torah, confession of sins, and prayer (Neh. 9:1 et seq.). Since every gathering convened for religious purposes was called \"keneset\" (hence \"bet ha-keneset\" = \"the synagogue\"; comp. the verb \"kenos,\" Esth. 4:16), this term was applied also to the assembly in question; but as it was an assembly of special importance it was designated more specifically as the \"great assembly\" (comp. Neh. 5:7, \"ḳehillah gedolah\").\n\nIn addition to fixing the ritual observances for the first two quarters of the day (Neh. 9:3), the Great Synagogue engaged in legislative proceedings, making laws as summarized in Neh. 10:30 et seq. Tradition therefore ascribed to it the character of a chief magistracy, and its members, or rather its leaders, including the prophets of that time, were regarded as the authors of other obligatory rules. These leaders of post-exilic Israel in the Persian period were called the \"men of the Great Synagogue\" because it was generally assumed that all those who then acted as leaders had been members of the memorable gathering held on the 24th of Tishri, 444 BC. Although the assembly itself convened only on a single day, its leaders were designated in tradition as regular members of the Great Synagogue. This explains the fact that the references speak almost exclusively of the members of the Great Synagogue, the allusions to the body itself being very rare, and based in part on error, as, for example, the quotation from Ab. 1:2 which occurs in Eccl. R. 12:11.\n\nAs certain institutions supposed to have been established in the first period of the Second Temple were ascribed to Ezra, so others of them were ascribed to the men of the Great Synagogue. There is, in fact, no difference between the two classes of institutions so far as origin is concerned. In some cases Ezra, the great scribe and the leader of the Great Synagogue, is mentioned as the author, in others the entire body is so mentioned; in all cases the body with Ezra at its head must be thought of as the real authors. In traditional literature, however, a distinction was generally drawn between the institutions of Ezra and those of the men of the Great Synagogue, so that they figured separately; but it is not surprising, after what has been said above, that in Tan., Beshallaḥ, 16, on Ex. 15:7, the \"Tiḳḳune Soferim,\" called also (\"Okhla we-Okhla,\" No. 168) \"Tiḳḳune 'Ezra\" (emendations of the text of the Bible by the Soferim, or by Ezra; and according to the tannaitic source [see Bacher, \"Ag. Tan.\" ii. 205], originally textual euphemisms), should be ascribed to the men of the Great Synagogue, since the author of the passage in question identified the Soferim (i.e., Ezra and his successors) with them.\n\nThe following rulings were ascribed to the men of the Great Synagogue:\n\n\nThe list of Biblical personages who have no part in the future world (Sanh. x. 1) was made, according to Rab, by the men of the Great Synagogue (Sanh. 104b), and an aggadic ruling on Biblical stories beginning with the phrase \"Va-yehi bayamim\" (And it came to pass in those days) is designated by Johanan, or his pupil Levi, as a \"tradition of the men of the Great Synagogue\" (Meg. 10b). This is merely another way of saying, as is stated elsewhere (Lev. R. xi.) in reference to the same ruling, that it had been brought as a tradition from the Babylonian exile. There are references also to other aggadic traditions of this kind (see Bacher, \"Ag. Tan.\" 2d ed., i. 192; idem, \"Die Aelteste Terminologie,\" p. 107). Joshua b. Levi ascribes in an original way to the men of the Great Synagogue the merit of having provided for all time for the making of copies of the Bible, tefillin, and mezuzot, stating that they instituted twenty-four fasts to ensure that wealth would not be acquired by copyists, who would cease to copy if they became rich (Pes. 50b). A aggadic passage by Jose b. Ḥanina refers to the names of the returning exiles mentioned in Ezra ii. 51 et seq. (Gen. R. lxxi. et passim), one version reading \"the men of the Great Synagogue\" instead of \"sons of the Exile,\" or \"those that returned from the Exile\" (\"'ole goleh\"). This shows that the men of the Great Synagogue included the first generation of the Second Temple. In Esth. R. iii. 7 the congregation of the tribes mentioned in Judges xx. 1 is apparently termed \"men of the Great Synagogue.\" This is due, however, to a corruption of the text, for, according to Luria's skilful emendation, this phrase must be read with the preceding words \"Ezra and the men of the Great Synagogue\"; so that the phrase corresponds to the \"bene ha-golah\" of Ezra x. 16.\n\nThere is, finally, a passage of three clauses, which the Mishnah (Ab. i. 12) ascribes to the men of the Great Synagogue as stated above, and which reads as follows: \"Be heedful in pronouncing sentence; have many pupils; put a fence about the Torah.\" This aphorism, ascribed to an entire body of men, can only be interpreted as expressing their spirit and tendency, yet it must have been formulated by some individual, probably one of their number. At all events, it may be regarded as a historical and authentic statement of the dominating thought of those early leaders of post-exilic Israel who were designated in the tradition of the local schools as the men of the Great Synagogue. It must also be noted that this passage, like the majority of those given in the first chapter of Abot, is addressed to the teachers and spiritual leaders rather than to the people. These three clauses indicate the program of the scholars of the Persian period, who were regarded as one generation, and evidence their harmony with the spirit of Ezra's teaching. Their program was carried out by the Pharisees: caution in pronouncing legal sentences; watchfulness over the schools and the training of pupils; assurance of the observance of the Law by the enforcement of protective measures and rulings.\n\nAn attempt has thus been made to assign correct positions to the texts in which the men of the Great Synagogue are mentioned, and to present the views on which they are based, although no discussions can be broached regarding the views of the chroniclers and historians, or the different hypotheses and conclusions drawn from these texts concerning the history of the period of the Second Temple. For this a reference to the articles cited in the bibliography must suffice. Kuenen especially presents a good summary of the more recent theories, while L. Löw (who is not mentioned by Kuenen) expresses views totally divergent from those generally held with regard to the Great Synagogue; this body he takes to be the assembly described in I Macc. xiv. 25-26, which made Simeon the Hasmonean a hereditary prince (18th of Elul, 140 BC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40859481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40859481", "title": "Henriques v Giles", "text": "Henriques v Giles\n\nIn Henriques v Giles, an important case in the South African law of succession, a husband and wife had instructed their accountant to prepare each of their respective wills. The content of each of the wills varied considerably. The husband accidentally signed his wife’s will; his wife accidentally signed his will.\n\nThe husband died in 2004, and his wife the following year.\n\nIn response to a request to rectify both wills, the court held that the husband’s will was capable of being rectified, but the wife’s will was not, as the court was not satisfied that she had the requisite capacity to execute a will due to her affliction with Alzheimer’s syndrome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39121452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39121452", "title": "Italian Law 91/1981, Article 18B", "text": "Italian Law 91/1981, Article 18B\n\nArticolo 18-bis Legge 91/1981 (Article 18B of Law no. 91 of 1981) also known as Salva Calcio (Save Football) is an Italian law introduced in 2003 by Law N°27/2003, itself ratified the decree-law N°282/2002 issued by the Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi (owner of A.C. Milan). The law allows football clubs to defer the amortization expense of intangible assets (player contracts) into 10 equal annual installments. Generally speaking, transfer fees paid to other clubs were capitalized as intangible assets. In accounting, tangible assets were depreciated and intangible assets amortized. At that time, Italian clubs had broken the world transfer record several times. Most clubs relied on player profit as a revenue source, with cash-plus-player deals the most popular method of increasing profit. For example, Juventus signed Gianluigi Buffon and Lilian Thuram for a total of 180 billion lire (€92.96 million). However, Parma also received Jonathan Bachini for an undisclosed fee and Juventus earned €10 million on Bachini.\n\nIn some cases high-priced player trades were used to increase short-term profit, stressing future budgets. Vratislav Greško, who was signed for one year by Internazionale for DM9.5 million (€4.857 million), was sold to Parma in 2002 for €16 million; Matías Almeyda, who joined Parma with Hernán Crespo, also sold from Parma to Inter for €16 million. Both Greško and Almeyda left the club after one and two years, respectively, for an undisclosed fee and free transfer. A similar situation occurred in Parma and Rome in 2001; Mangone, Poggi and Gurenko were priced at a total of ₤65 billion (€33,569,698) in a trade with Fuser, Longo and Lassissi. However, Fuser played only briefly for Rome and Gurenko only briefly for Parma. Rome also traded with other clubs in June 2002 (the end of the 2001–02 financial year), including Luigi Sartor (€9.5 million) for Sebastiano Siviglia (€9 million). Some clubs had large net losses, and Fiorentina declared bankruptcy in 2002.\n\nAfter the establishment of the amortization fund, amortization was lower in general. After the players became free agents, their deferred value was still counted as assets; this was unacceptable by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or Italian standards. The deferment was borrowing future income. Although future team resources would be limited, according to a University of Salerno research paper the deferred cost might allow a club to utilize the tax allowance more effectively.\n\nIt was reported that 15 clubs had set-up such special amortization fund, for example A.S. Roma, A.C. Milan and F.C. Internazionale Milano.\n\nThe European Union rejected the law in 2003. (formal rendering in 2005)\n\nThe clubs faced another shortfall in 2007, after Decree-Law 115/2005 abolished Article 18B; they had to abolish the amortization fund by 30 June 2007, five years before the original scheduled date. UEFA required all clubs to use IFRS, and the fund was incompatible with the standard.\n\nBefore 2006, Napoli was bankrupt when its owner refused to increase share capital in 2004 but the club was revived debt-free as a new company by current owner Aurelio De Laurentiis. When Parma was under administration, most of its toxic assets were written off and its balance sheet was transferred to new company Parma FC SpA. A.S. Roma recapitalized several times during the 2003–04 season, swinging between positive and negative net equity since 2006. During the 2005–06 season Roma had a net equity of €67,808,577 in a separate balance sheet, with the special 10-year fund of €80,189,123 on the asset side; if the fund was entirely deferred amortization, the club had a negative equity of €12,380,546 on the separate balance sheet. Using IFRS in the 2006–07 financial year, on 30 June 2006 Roma had a 2005–06 negative net equity of €22,980,335 on the separate balance sheet. The club created a subsidiary, Soccer SAS di Brand Management, revaluing the brand at €125.122 million. Although Lazio had a positive equity of €29,637,929 with the special fund at €127,746,321, if the fund contained deferred amortization only the club had a negative equity of €98,108,392. In 2006–07 Lazio also changed to IFRS, with a reclassified negative net equity for the previous season of €25,406,939. The club overcome the shortfall on a separate balance sheet with subsidiary SS Lazio Marketing & \nCommunication, selling its brand to the subsidiary for €104.5 million; this boosted the separate balance sheet but not the consolidated one. Internazionale and Milan made similar moves, despite large cash injections by the owner of both clubs.\n"}
{"id": "34677592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34677592", "title": "John Braithwaite (journalist)", "text": "John Braithwaite (journalist)\n\nJohn \"Jack\" Braithwaite (3 January 1885–29 October 1916) was a New Zealander who served in the First World War with the New Zealand Expeditionary Force. A journalist before the war, in 1916 he was convicted of mutiny and executed by firing squad. He was posthumously pardoned in September 2000 through the passage of the Pardon for Soldiers of the Great War Act 2000.\n\nJohn Braithwaite was born in Dunedin, New Zealand, on 3 January 1885, one of 16 children to a bookseller and his wife. After completing his schooling, he worked alongside his father. He later claimed to have became a journalist and lived in Sydney, Australia, for a time from 1911. Instead, he was actually in and out of prison in New Zealand for alcohol-related offences.\n\nBraithwaite enlisted in the New Zealand Expeditionary Force (NZEF) in May 1915. Some of his brothers were already serving abroad with the NZEF, one being wounded at Gallipoli. He was posted to the 2nd Battalion of the New Zealand Rifle Brigade and embarked for the Middle East in January 1916. Within a matter of weeks of arriving in Egypt, he was transferred to 2nd Battalion, Otago Infantry Regiment. Promoted to lance corporal in April, his unit was shipped to France for service on the Western Front. His performance as a soldier soon deteriorated.\n\nIn May 1916, shortly after his arrival in France, Braithwaite was demoted for being absent without leave. The following month, he was courtmartialed for three offences; a second period of absence without leave; lying to an officer; and falsifying a leave pass. He was sentenced to 60-days Field Punishment No. 2 but continued to disregard military discipline. The following month he escaped confinement and on recapture, a senior NZEF officer recommended that he be returned to New Zealand to serve out his punishment. Sentenced to two years imprisonment for his escape, he was being transferred to a prison facility at Blargies when he evaded his guards and went on the run for two days before being caught. He received a further two-year term of imprisonment.\n\nSent to Blargies, Braithwaite appeared to settle down and accept prison life. He applied to the commandant of the prison for a suspension of his sentence so that he, and other soldiers of New Zealand and Australia, could return to the front lines. His request was passed to Lieutenant General William Birdwood, commanding officer of I ANZAC Corps. In late August 1916, Braithwaite became involved in a mutiny. Blargies had already been the scene of an earlier mutiny by British soldiers protesting at their treatment. This time, an Australian prisoner had become unruly and began resisting attempts by guards to confine him. Braithwaite intervened and dragged the Australian away from the guards and a gathering crowd of Australian prisoners, already disgruntled at their harsh treatment. He later claimed that he reminded the struggling Australian of the petition to Birdwood and not to jeopardise this and that his (Braithwaite's) actions were aimed at calming the situation. However, he, along with three others, were charged with mutiny.\n\nBraithwaite pleaded not guilty, but despite evidence from other prisoners that confirmed his side of the story, a general court martial of five British Army officers, convicted him of mutiny and conferred a sentence of death by firing squad. The three other soldiers on trial, all Australians, received the same sentence. The decision of the court martial was sent to the commander of the British Expeditionary Force, General Douglas Haig, for approval but was accompanied by a recommendation from the convening officer that the sentences be reduced to a 10-year term of imprisonment.\n\nHowever, Haig, who in dealing with these matters favoured confirming the death sentence for the perceived ringleader while commuting similar sentences for other soldiers involved in the same incident, deemed Braithwaite the responsible party for the mutiny and as was his habit, confirmed the sentence of death. The sentences passed onto the Australians were commuted to two-years punishment with hard labour. Braithwaite was shot by a firing squad early in the morning of 29 October 1916. The only New Zealand soldier executed for mutiny during the war, he is buried in the St Sever Cemetery Extension in the city of Rouen.\n\nThe execution of Braithwaite received little publicity at the time. Even immediately after the war, when the New Zealand government became aware of the severity of his treatment compared to the Australian mutineers, it decided to keep the release of information of the circumstances of his fate to a minimum. However, by the 1980s the injustice of Braithwaite's treatment was widely known and in September 2000, the New Zealand Parliament passed a bill, the \"Pardon for Soldiers of the Great War Act 2000\", that pardoned Braithwaite and four other New Zealand soldiers that were executed during the war.\n"}
{"id": "2037141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2037141", "title": "John Eekelaar", "text": "John Eekelaar\n\nJohn Eekelaar FBA (born 2 July 1942) is a South African former academic specialising in family law. In 2005 he retired from teaching after a forty-year career at Oxford University. He was the academic director of Pembroke College from 2005 to 2009 and is currently the co-director of the Oxford Centre for Family Law and Policy (OXFLAP).\n\nEekelaar was born in Johannesburg, South Africa, and earned his LL.B. from King's College London in 1963, and gained his BCL and MA from University College, Oxford in 1965 and 1967 respectively.\n\nEekelaar held a Rhodes Scholarship from 1963 to 1965, and was awarded the Vinerian Scholarship in 1965. He was called to the Bar in 1968 at the Inner Temple. Eekelaar has been a Tutorial Fellow at Pembroke College since 1965; he held a CUF Lecturership from 1966 to 1991, and has been Reader in Law since 1991. He was elected to a Fellowship of the British Academy in July 2001.\n\nEekelaar has been editor of the \"International Journal of Law, Policy and the Family\" and the \"Oxford Journal of Legal Studies\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "394048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394048", "title": "Justification (jurisprudence)", "text": "Justification (jurisprudence)\n\nJustification is a defense in a criminal case, by which a defendant who committed the crime as defined, claims he did no wrong, because committing the crime advanced some social interest or vindicated a right of such importance that it outweighs the wrongfulness of the crime. Justification and excuse are related but different defenses (see Justification and excuse).\n\nJustification is an exception to the prohibition of committing certain offenses. Justification, as in justifiable homicide, vindicates and shows the justice. Justification can be a defense in a prosecution for a criminal offense. When an act is justified, a person is not criminally liable even though their act would otherwise constitute an offense. For example, to intentionally commit a homicide would be considered murder. However, it is not considered a crime if committed in self-defense.\n\nA justification is not the same as an excuse. In contrast, an excuse (legal) is a defense that recognizes a crime was committed, but that for the defendant, although committing a socially undesirable crime, conviction and punishment would be morally inappropriate because of an extenuating personal inadequacy, such as mental defect, lack of mental capacity, sufficient age, intense fear of death, lacking the ability to control their own conduct, etc.\n"}
{"id": "56174036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56174036", "title": "Legal cynicism", "text": "Legal cynicism\n\nLegal cynicism is a domain of legal socialization defined by a perception that the legal system and law enforcement agents are \"illegitimate, unresponsive, and ill equipped to ensure public safety.\" It is related to police legitimacy, and the two serve as important ways for researchers to study citizens' perceptions of law enforcement.\n\nSampson and Bartusch (1998) defined legal cynicism as \"\"anomie\" about law\". Based on Sampson & Bartusch's work, and on that of Leo Srole, Piquero et al. (2005) defined it based on respondents' answers to a five-question survey. In the survey, respondents were asked to rank, on a four-point scale, the extent to which they agreed with each of these statements: \nLegal cynicism can be exacerbated when police engage in aggressive misconduct in a community, which can lead to greater violence and less cooperation between the community's citizens and the police. It has been found to be higher in neighborhoods with higher levels of concentrated disadvantage, even after controlling for demographic factors and crime rates. The strongest predictor of legal cynicism is self-reported delinquency.\n\nLegal cynicism and legitimacy both have significant effects on criminal offending, even after accounting for self-control. Legal cynicism is also associated with lower rates of desistance from intimate partner violence, higher homicide rates, and higher recidivism rates among released prisoners. It has also been found to affect parents' assessments of their adolescent children's violent behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "39136557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39136557", "title": "Legality of bestiality in the United States", "text": "Legality of bestiality in the United States\n\nLegality of bestiality in the United States looks at the laws prohibiting bestiality in the United States of America. The legality of sex with animals has been steadily decreasing over the past 20 years. As of February 10, 2018, 45 states and 2 territories ban sex with animals, while 5 states and the District of Columbia have decriminalized it (due to repeal of sodomy laws). In 2017, five states (Texas, Kentucky, West Virginia, Vermont and Nevada) introduced legislation to ban bestiality, with Nevada, Vermont, and Texas enacting laws banning it in 2017. New Hampshire and Ohio also banned sex with animals in 2017 (they had 2016 bills which went into effect in 2017).\n\nIn late 2017, a bill was introduced in Wisconsin which intends to make sex with animals a felony there. In 2018, five bills were introduced to ban sex with animals: in California (the California bill would make sex with animals a felony), Louisiana (criminalizes promoting or encouraging it), Hawaii, Kentucky, and West Virginia.\n\nSeveral states, including Oregon, Washington, Tennessee, Illinois, Florida, Alaska and Ohio, criminalize free speech related to sex with animals (such as promoting or encouraging it). These laws have all been recently enacted.\n\nOhio has the most lenient prison sentences among states with misdemeanor penalties prohibiting bestiality among any state, with a maximum of 90 days in prison and a $750 dollar fine. Michigan has the most lenient prison sentences among states with minimum felony penalties prohibiting bestiality among any state, with a minimum of 1 day in prison. Maryland has the harshest maximum prison sentences among states with misdemeanor penalties prohibiting bestiality among any state, with a maximum of 10 years in prison and/or a maximum of a $1,000 dollar fine. Rhode Island has the harshest minimum prison sentence among states with felony penalties prohibiting bestiality, with a minimum of 7 years in prison. Idaho and Michigan both have the harshest maximum prison sentences among states with felony penalties prohibiting bestiality among any state, with a maximum of life in prison.\n\nAt the 1969 Libertarian Conference held in New York City, New York, Murray Rothbard claimed a Neo-Randian group called Students of Objectivism for Rational Bestiality existed. These so-called \"Bestiality Boys\" promoted what they called \"Rational Bestiality\". Their contention was that \"bestiality is illegal because humans are irrational animals and that, if humans were rational, citizens would not be arrested and jailed for engaging in sexual acts with the animals they own.\"\n\nThe Humane Society of the United States is one of the leading American organizations to criminalize bestiality in the United States.\n\nLaws against bestiality and sodomy in the United States are largely a matter of state rather than federal jurisdiction, except for laws governing the District of Columbia and the U.S. Armed Forces. There is no federal law which explicitly prohibits sex between humans and animals.\n\nThe only federal law prohibiting zoophilic pornography, is 18 USC 2256, which prohibits distribution in interstate commerce and on federal property of child pornography of a minor under 18 years old engaging in \"sexually explicit conduct\" of bestiality.\n\nThe Constitutional definition of obscenity was narrowed by the US Supreme Court in the 1985 case \"Brockett v. Spokane Arcades, Inc.\", which the court endorsed the Model Penal Code of obscenity. The Model Penal Code prohibition against deviate sexual intercourse includes \"sexual intercourse \"per os\" or \"per anum\" between human beings who are not husband and wife, and any form of sexual intercourse with an animal.\" Federal law does not ban obscenity outright; it leaves this to state and local law. Federal statutes prohibit, among other things, the transmission of obscene matter as defined by state law, in interstate commerce and on federal land.\n\nPrivate Internet connections in the United States are not subject to censorship imposed by the government. However, private businesses, schools, libraries, and government offices may use filtering software at their discretion, and in such cases courts have ruled the use of such software does not violate the First Amendment.\n\n\nIn 1801, Congress enacted the District of Columbia Organic Act of 1801 that continued all criminal laws of Maryland and Virginia in the now formally structured District, with those of Maryland applying to that portion of the District ceded from Maryland, and those of Virginia applying to that portion ceded from Virginia. At the time, Maryland had a sodomy law applicable only to free males with a punishment of \"labor for any time, in their discretion, not exceeding seven years for the same crime, on the public roads of the said county, or in making, repairing or cleaning the streets or bason [sic] of Baltimore-town\" and the death penalty for slaves committing sodomy, while Virginia had a penalty of 1–10 years for free persons committing sodomy, but had the death penalty for slaves committing sodomy. The law went into effect on February 27, 1801.\n\nIn 1831, Congress established penalties in the District of Columbia for a number of crimes, but not for sodomy. It specified that \"every other felony, misdemeanor, or offence not provided for by this act, may and shall be punished as heretofore[.]\" At the time, Maryland and Virginia had a penalty of 1–10 years for committing sodomy. It went into effect in March 2, 1831.\n\nIn 1892, Congress passed a law for the District of Columbia that states that \"for the preservation of the public peace and the protection of property within the District of Columbia.\" Labeled in the law as vagrants were \"all public prostitutes, and all such persons who lead a notoriously lewd or lascivious course of life[.]\" All offenders had to post bond of up to $200 for good behavior for a period of six months. The law went into effect on July 29, 1892.\n\nIn 1898, Congress deleted the word \"notoriously\" from the provision concerning a lewd or lascivious course of life, thereby allowing prosecution of those without notoriety. The bond for good behavior was raised to $500, and the law was made clearly gender-neutral. The law went into effect on July 8, 1898.\n\nIn 1901, Congress adopting a new code for the District of Columbia that expressly recognized common-law crimes, with a penalty for them of up to five years and/or a $1,000 fine. The law went into effect on March 3, 1901.\n\nIn 1935, Congress passed a law for the District of Columbia that made it a crime for \"any person to invite, entice, persuade, or to address for the purpose of inviting, enticing, or persuading any person or persons...to accompany, to go with, to follow him or her to his or her residence, or to any other house or building, inclosure, or other place, for the purpose of prostitution, or any other immoral or lewd purpose.\" It imposed a fine of up to $100, up to 90 days in jail, and courts were permitted to \"impose conditions\" on anyone convicted under this law, including \"medical and mental examination, diagnosis and treatment by proper public health and welfare authorities, and such other terms and conditions as the court may deem best for the protection of the community and the punishment, control, and rehabilitation of the defendant.\" The law went into effect on August 14, 1935.\n\nIn 1948, Congress enacted the first sodomy law in the District of Columbia, which established a penalty of up to 10 years in prison or a fine of up to $1,000 for sodomy. Also included with this sodomy law was a psychopathic offender law and a law \"to provide for the treatment of sexual psychopaths in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.\" The law went into effect on June 9, 1948.\n\nIn 1981, after the District of Columbia regained home rule from Congress, it enacted a law that repealed the sodomy law, as well as other consensual acts, and made the sexual assault laws gender-neutral. However, the U.S. House exercised the power that it retained to veto laws passed by the District of Columbia Council. On October 1, 1981, the House voted 281-119 to disallow the new law. In 1983, one of the House vetoes by Congress were declared unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of \"Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha\", but the law was repealed by an act of Congress in a revision to the home-rule law required by the Supreme Court decision.\n\nOn March 1, 1917, the Articles of War of 1916 are implemented. This included a revision of the Articles of War of 1806, the new regulations detail statutes governing U.S. military discipline and justice. Under the category Miscellaneous Crimes and Offences, Article 93 states that any person subject to military law who commits \"assault with intent to commit sodomy\" shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.\n\nOn June 4, 1920, Congress modified Article 93 of the Articles of War of 1916. It was changed to make the act of sodomy itself a crime, separate from the offense of assault with intent to commit sodomy. It went into effect on February 4, 1921.\n\nOn May 5, 1950, the UCMJ was passed by Congress and was signed into law by President Harry S. Truman, and became effective on May 31, 1951. Article 125 forbids sodomy among all military personnel, defining it as \"any person subject to this chapter who engages in unnatural carnal copulation with another person of the same or opposite sex or with an animal is guilty of sodomy. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete the offence.\"\n\nOn December 1, 2011, the US Senate voted 93-7 in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, which contained in it a provision repealing Article 125 of the UCMJ. The bill died in Congress.\n\nOn December 26, 2013, President Barack Obama signed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 into law. The law repealed the ban on consensual sodomy found in Article 125 and added a specific provision in Article 125 of the UCMJ that specifically bans bestiality:\n\nOn September 16, 2016, President Barack Obama signed Executive Order 13740, which included new provision under the UCMJ to apply anywhere on Earth where the United States Armed Forces military is stationed and will be on a par with states’ animal cruelty statutes. Violations will be separated by “abuse, neglect, or abandonment of an animal” and “bestiality.”\n\n\nAccording to Leighann Lassiter, director of animal abuse for the Humane Society of the United States, the \"Lawrence v. Texas\" ruling that struck down all statutes in the United States prohibiting consensual human sexual intercourse can also block prosecution of bestiality. “Cases have been turned over on appeal because of unclear language in the law, and often times no charges are brought at all,” said Leighann. Currently, 10 states, Idaho, Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, and South Carolina, have a statute that prohibit both consensual human sexual intercourse and bestiality.\n\n"}
{"id": "19348866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19348866", "title": "List of Ministers of Justice of Catalonia", "text": "List of Ministers of Justice of Catalonia\n\nEstablished in 1931, the Minister of Justice of the Government of Catalonia (Generalitat de Catalunya) is the highest representative of the Department of Justice. The functions of the Department of Justice correspond to:\n\n\nThe Center for Legal Studies and Specialized Training and the Center for Contemporary History remain attached to the department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3403737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3403737", "title": "Local Government Act 1995", "text": "Local Government Act 1995\n\nThe Local Government Act 1995 is an act of the Western Australian Parliament which lays down the responsibilities, powers and procedures for election of Local Government Bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "39434542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39434542", "title": "Locatio conductio", "text": "Locatio conductio\n\nIn Roman law, locatio conductio is a consensual contract, by which a person becomes bound to deliver to another the use of a thing for a certain time, or to do work at a certain price.\n"}
{"id": "53777597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53777597", "title": "Lynching of Mashal Khan", "text": "Lynching of Mashal Khan\n\nMashal Khan () was a Pashtun and Muslim student at the Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan, Pakistan who was killed by an angry mob in the premises of the university on 13 April 2017, over fake allegations of posting blasphemous content online. Following investigations, the Inspector General Police later stated \"We did not find any concrete evidence under which [a blasphemy] investigation or legal action can be launched against Mashal, Abdullah or Zubair\". Mashal's friend Abdullah stated to the police in writing that both Mashal and Abdullah were devout Muslims, but were actively denouncing mismanagement by the university and had previously led protests against it. Following the death of Khan, at least 45 people were arrested. The suspects will be presented to the Anti Terrorism Court of Pakistan.\n\nKhan completed his college in the Institute of Computer and Management Sciences on a scholarship and received good marks.<ref name=\"dawn1/18april2017\"></ref>\n\nHe then received a scholarship to study in a university in Russia<ref name=\"tribune1/17 april 2017\"></ref> where he studied engineering for one year. He then returned to Pakistan without completing his studies due to the family's limited financial resources.<ref name=\"dawn2/16april2017\"></ref> Upon returning to Pakistan, he enrolled in the department of journalism at Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan and was planning to do a Master's in Mass Media and Journalism and was also preparing for his civil services exams.\n\nHis father told \"DAWN\" that \"Mashal was devoted to his studies and would study for 15 hours a day. He believed education was essential for a full life and encouraged his brother and sisters to study as well. His father added that Mashal was a \"peaceful, tolerant person.\" and that he wrote poetry in Pashto. Khan had one brother and two sisters and was 23 years old at the time of his murder. Geo News reported that his teacher told it \"Mashal was a humanist, he was into socialism and Sufism\". A teacher described Khan as an engaged and thoughtful student. \"He was brilliant and inquisitive, always complaining about the political system of the country, but I never heard him saying anything controversial against the religion.\"\n\nIn March 2017, the Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif supported a crackdown on blasphemous material posted on social media and described blasphemy as an \"unpardonable offence\".\n\nBefore his death Mashal Khan criticized the Abdul Wali Khan University but none of his comments mentioned religion or contained blasphemy. He revealed that the vice-chancellor never attended the university and students were forced to study in uncertainty of whether or not they would receive the degrees for which they were studying. He criticised teachers, accused them of bureaucracy and said that a single faculty member was in charge of multiple responsibilities. According to him \"everyone in authority is a thief here.\" The way the university collected outstanding dues was also criticised as it charged students Rs. 25,000, while other universities only collected Rs. 5,000.\n\nOn 13 April 2017, the assistant registrar posted an official notice on the online board announcing that three students were under investigation for blasphemous activities, and had been suspended:\n\nA large group of students formed into a mob, accusing these students of running a Facebook page where Mashal was allegedly publishing blasphemous material. Mashal was killed inside the premises of the Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan where he was a student of mass communication.<ref name=\"dawn1/13april2017\"></ref>\nKhan's death was filmed through mobile phones and was shared on social media. At least 25 policemen were present in the university premises when Khan was killed.\n\nHe was in the hostel of the university when he was stripped naked and severely beaten by a group of students and then shot. He succumbed to his injuries. Graphic video footage of the lynching showed Khan was lying on the floor; his body bore marks of severe torture and was not moving. The mob was seen kicking his lifeless body and beating it with wooden planks. He was also thrown from the second floor of the building. Several more videos emerged later which showed him alive and the mob mercilessly attacking him. Deputy Inspector General of Police said the mob wanted to burn the body of Khan after he was dead.\n\nIt was reported that some leaders of the student body were part of the mob that attacked Khan. A senior police officer said \"Hundreds of people were involved and Khan was badly tortured after being shot at a close range. He was beaten with sticks, bricks and hands.\"<ref name=\"bbc/13april2017\"></ref>\n\nAn eyewitness at the scene of the incident said Khan was attacked because he was believed to be promoting the Ahmadi faith on Facebook. Reports say a university administrator and several leaders of the university's student body were part of the attacking mob. An unknown official at the university said \"Khan was disliked by other students for his liberal and secular views.\" At least 20 police officers were present at the scene, but they were unable to control the situation. The university campus was shut down following his death and its hostels were vacated to avoid a further escalation of violence.\n\nOn the following day (14 April), Mashal Khan's funeral was led by his father, a local poet. Most neighbours kept away from the funeral, as threats made earlier by a local to anyone attending led them to fear follow-up attacks from religious mobs. Some elders nevertheless joined, calling over neighbours to show support and a few dozen people eventually joined the procession. In the following days, as information and national support emerged, neighbours expressed regret for not being able to protect Mashal nor supporting the Khans more on the day of the funeral.\n\nFollowing the death of Khan, at least 45 people were arrested.\n\nAccording to police investigations, Mashal Khan had not carried out any blasphemous action. The Inspector General Police stated \"We did not find any concrete evidence under which an investigation or legal action can be launched against Mashal, Abdullah or Zubair\".\n\nAccording to Abdullah, the AWK University's administration summoned him to the Mass Communications chairman's office, where they pressured him into accusing Mashal of blasphemy. When Abdullah refused as \"Neither Mashal nor I had committed any blasphemy\", the administration issued the online notification, then went to punish Abdullah by beating and Mashal by lynching.\n\nAccording to the testimony of one of the prime accused, Wajahat Ullah, collected by the police, 15 to 20 persons were at the office of the chairman discussing the three students' controversial views when he was called over by fellow student Mudassar Bashir, the representative of the class. Lecturers Ziaullah Hamdard and Pir Asfandyar, clerks Anees, Saeed and Idrees, and superintendent Arshad were present and summoned him on the issue. Class representative Mudassar Bashir asked him to become a witness of the alleged blasphemy, while clerk Idrees repeated his opposition to having a communist in AWK University. The proposition of creating a committee of inquiry was opposed by clerk Idrees and class leader Bashir, while security in-charge Bilal Bakhsh declared his will to handle the issue quickly, occasionally stating his will to kill the student. The group processed toward Mashal's hostel, calling for bystanders to join and turning the expedition into an angry punitive mob.\n\nOn 21 April, AWKUM's superintendent and office's assistant were imprisoned on judicial remand. Some of the accused were sent to the Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC).\nBilal Baksh, a computer operator at the university, was alleged to have shouted slogans and called for a mob to build around Mr. Khan and murder him. Two other suspect were delivered to ATC. On 25 April, 2 other suspects were handed over to ATC.\n\nIt was reported that the administration of the university, through a notification dated 13 April 2017, rusticated Khan and decided to investigate Khan for alleged \"blasphemous activity\". A provost of the university said the notification was issued after the death of Khan.\n\nThe 13-member Joint Investigation Team (JIT) constituted by the Supreme Court of Pakistan in response to the lynching gave its final report on 3 June 2017. The report cleared Mashal of all blasphemy charges and termed his lynching a premeditated murder conducted by certain elements in the student body and the university administration. The report also cleared Mashal's two friends, Abdullah and Zubair, of any blasphemy while raising questions about the efficacy of Mardan Police's response to the incident.\n\nAccording to the report, the two prime inciters of the lynching were Sabir Mayer, president of the Pukhtoon Students Federation, and Ajmal Khan, president of the university's employee union. Ajmal confessed that a month before the lynching, Sabir, along with a university employee, Asad Katlang, came to his office and told him that they had to \"get rid of Mashal\" as he was a \"threat to the party\" (the 'party' is presumed to be the leftist political party, Awami National Party, whose student federation Sabir headed). The trio then proceeded to hatch a plan for Mashal's murder.\n\nAs stated in the report, the prime reason for Mashal's lynching was his constant criticism of the university's administration. A month before his lynching, he gave a television interview to AVT Khyber, a regional news channel, in which he alleged that illegal and criminal activities persisted in the university hostel and female students were also exploited in the university.\n\nIt was further found that the university had serious management issues where top posts were filled by people of criminal background due to their political affiliation. It has been suggested in the report that strict departmental action should be taken against registrar Sher Alam, director administration Peer Asfandyar, chief security officer Inayatullah Afridi, provost Fayaz Ali Shah, chief proctor professor Idrees, director sports professor Farooq and assistant registrar Humyaun for their incompetence.\n\nIn its conclusion, the report, which will be submitted to the Supreme Court and the anti-terrorism court (ATC), has suggested severe punishments for the university employees and students involved in the crime.\n\n\n\nFollowing the murder of Khan, protests were held in different parts of Pakistan over the murder of Khan. A large number of people took to streets in Khan's village in Swabi. \"DAWN\" reported that \"It was probably for the first time that a large number of women participated in a mourning procession in the area.\" Progressive students and youth organized protests and public meetings against this brutal killing in many cities across the country. All these protests inside the country and solidarity campaign across the world demanded to put pressure on Pakistani State to take action against the murderers. Due to these protests many religious scholars had to announce Khan as a Martyr which shows the intensity of public outrage at this murder.\nOn the 40th day after the death of Mashal Khan a public meeting was held in his village in which students and political activists participated in large numbers and asked for exemplary punishment of Mashal's killers. At this meeting which was attended by students of Quaid-e-Azam University Islamabad, Peshawar University and Malakand University among others was addressed by leaders of various political parties. At the end Khan's father Iqbal Khan addressed the meeting and said that, \"Let's make the universities and other educational institutions so peaceful that in future no student falls prey to mob assault like my son.\"\n"}
{"id": "34866809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34866809", "title": "Maine Question 1, 2012", "text": "Maine Question 1, 2012\n\nMaine Question 1 was a voter referendum on an initiated state statute that occurred November 6, 2012. The title of the citizen initiative is \"An Act to Allow Marriage Licenses for Same-Sex Couples and Protect Religious Freedom\". The question that appeared on the ballot was: \"Do you want to allow the State of Maine to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples?\"\n\nThe law took effect on December 29, 2012.\n\nIn 2009, same-sex marriage legalization, \"An Act To End Discrimination in Civil Marriage and Affirm Religious Freedom\", was passed by the legislature and signed into law by Governor John Baldacci. A 2009 people's veto referendum to reject the law passed 53 to 47 percent, invalidating the law before it took effect.\n\nOn June 30, 2011, EqualityMaine and Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) announced plans to place a voter initiative in support of same-sex marriage on Maine's November 2012 ballot. Supporters delivered more than 105,000 petition signatures for the initiative to the Secretary of State's office on January 26, 2012, exceeding the minimum of 57,277 signatures requirement. The Secretary of State announced on February 23 that the office verified 85,216 signatures, qualifying the initiative for the November 2012 ballot.\n\nUnder Maine's constitution a valid initiative must be sent to the voters unless enacted in the proposed form by the Legislature at the same session during which it was presented. In March 2012, the Maine Legislature voted to indefinitely postpone the initiative without debate, effectively putting it on the November ballot.\n\nOn June 14, 2012, Maine Secretary of State Charlie Summers, who opposed same-sex marriage, released the draft wording of the question as it would appear on the ballot, beginning a 30-day public comment period, at the end of which he had ten days to determine the wording of the question. He proposed the following wording:\n\nThe petitions that supporters circulated was as follows:\n\nOpponents of the initiative claimed that latter part of the circulated question is unnecessary, as the religious freedom to refuse to perform same-sex marriages is guaranteed by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution. They also criticized the wording for failing to mention redefining marriage. Supporters of the initiative said the Secretary of State's proposed wording \"fails to address important parts of the initiative that will be on the ballot in November\". Though they concede the First Amendment point made by the measure's opponents, they asked Summers, whose good faith they did not question, to restore the reference to protecting religious freedom because they claim opponents \"distort the what the approval of same-sex marriage will do, including the possibility that churches would lose their tax-exempt status by refusing to perform same-sex marriages.\"\n\nThe final wording Summers chose is \"Do you want to allow the State of Maine to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples?\" Representatives of both sides of the issue stated they had no major problems with Summers' decision.\n\nEqualityMaine and Mainers United for Marriage began the campaign for the initiative on May 15, 2012.\n\nBy June 28, Mainers United for Marriage had raised over $1 million, and 64 percent of those contributions had come from within Maine.\n\nOn July 23, the Maine ACLU and Mainers United for Marriage held a press conference to announce the formation of the group Republicans United for Marriage as part of an effort to attract more Republican support of the initiative. Fifteen Republicans appeared at the conference, including three current state legislators. One of those, Rep. Stacey Fitts of Pittsfield, had voted against the 2009 same-sex marriage law passed by the previous Legislature but stated that he has now changed his mind after discussions with gay persons that he knows and his family. Fitts also said he felt his new views were a \"perfect match\" with his Republican philosophy of small government. Pastor Bob Emerich, a spokesman for initiative opponents, dismissed the announcement as \"insignificant\" and questioned \"why these people even call themselves Republicans.\"\n\nPresident Barack Obama, through a spokesperson, endorsed the initiative on October 24.\n\nRichard Malone, former Catholic Bishop of Portland, stated on October 25 that supporting the initiative was \"unfaithful to Catholic doctrine\" and that Catholics whose conscience was formed through scripture could not justify voting for any candidate or referendum that opposes the teachings of the Church. He said that Catholics for Marriage Equality did not speak for the Catholic Church.\n\nDemocratic U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Mike Michaud both stated they intended to vote in favor of the referendum, while Republican U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe both stated that their policy was to not comment on state level issues. Governor Paul LePage, through his spokeswoman, also declined to offer his views on the referendum. Collins and Snowe would both state their support for same-sex marriage after the referendum.\n\nThe referendum was declared passed on November 6, 2012 by the Associated Press, and opposition group Protect Marriage Maine conceded at 1:30 am on November 7, 2012. 53% of Maine voted in favor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15255483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15255483", "title": "Migu", "text": "Migu\n\nMigu or \"miggo\" (translation: \"since\") (Hebrew: מיגו) is a Talmudic law concept relating to civil law disputes. A migu is a reason that a claim that would otherwise be rejected by a Jewish civil court should be accepted based on the fact that the litigant could have prevailed in the case based on a different claim were he disposed to lie. To be effective, the logic underlying the migu must be impeccable and there are a variety of cases in which the Migu argument is invalid.\n\nOne classic example of where a Migu does work is in the area of a loan repayment dispute. Where the lender accuses an alleged borrower of defaulting on an oral loan made without witnesses, the borrower may prevail in the case by claiming that the loan did occur, but that it had already been repaid. Normally, when one makes a claim that a loan has been repaid, he would be expected to produce evidence that it had been repaid, such as a receipt. However, in this scenario the borrower would prevail under the theory that he must be telling the truth, as if he were interested in lying to the court, he could have simply said that the loan never happened. Since the lender cannot prove the existence of the loan, that claim would have prevailed. Therefore, the claim that the loan was repaid is believed as well. This is a classic Migu, although many cases of Migu exist to support a position in court.\n\nOther cases in which Migu is invoked are cases in which witnesses might have a personal gain in testifying, which would normally disqualify the testimony. If another option can be found for the witnesses to achieve the same personal gain, some authorities rule that the testimony can be accepted.\n\nThere are exceptions to the rule of Migu, perhaps the most common one is known as \"Migu in the place of witnesses\" (Hebrew מיגו במקום עדים). This takes on two meanings. The first is that in a case in which the claimant has irrefutable proof - such as valid witnesses - supporting his claim, the litigant cannot use Migu as a defense. The reasoning is that the witnesses are \"stronger\" than the Migu. (This means that in the order of acceptance of proofs and logic the court of law will rule based on the stronger proof/logic.) A second meaning to \"Migu in the place of witnesses\" is similar yet very different from the first. That is, when witnesses support the alternative claim, thereby destroying the litigant's position, as the litigant can no longer claim that if he was looking to win dishonestly he/she would have claimed the alternative. Because the alternative is no longer possible. This exception is true even if the witnesses bear testimony after the litigant made his/her claim. (see Rabbi Busel On Migu)\n\nAnother exception would be if the proposed alternative claim is considered to be an embarrassment to the defendant. Cases that would qualify are, if the story being told is embarrassing by its very nature, it is a highly unlikely story and a person would not be so brazen as to make the alternative claim (Hebrew, מיגו דהעזה לא אמרינן) or it is well known that the particular proposed fact is untrue, even if the claimant can't prove it. The logic behind this exception is elementary. The Migu lends credibility to the defendant by asking the question: \"if he is lying in an effort to exempt himself from paying his dues, he should have told more believable lie\". If the court can find a probable reason why he would avoid telling the harder-to-disprove story, then the entire logic falls apart.\n\nA third rule in the non acception of Migu's is that \"a Migu to extract is not said\" (Hebrew מיגו להוציא לא אמרינן). This means that the logic of Migu will not be excepted on the claimants side. (\"Why did he claim that the item used to belong to the possessing party and that he had bought it from him, he could have said that the item never belonged to the possessing party?\"). The predominant reason for this is that the burden of proof is on the claimant (Hebrew המוציא מחבירו עליו הראיה) and therefore even though a defendant can avoid payment using the Migu as a defense, it is not sufficient proof for the claimant. Another point is that this would open endless opportunities for con men (Many Jewish laws are designed to make con games more difficult)This is the opinion of the Tosafists.The Ramban among other Rishonim disagree with this rule and contend that it is a valid reasoning. Some explain that the root of the question lays in understanding Migu's properties as a tool in court. The Tosafists felt that a Migu is a leverage tool (Hebrew, כח הטענה), meaning that if a person chose to make a less favorable claim over a more favorable one, he is given the benefit of the doubt, although he is not necessarily believed based on his Migu, therefore his Migu can only deflect charges but not charge others. The Ramban on the other hand felt that Migu provides proof of the legitimacy of the claim, it can therefore be used as an attack tool.\n\nAccording to Rabbi Betzalel Busel there exists a fourth exception to the rule of Migu, and that is a stipulation that the potential claim be an alternative to the current claim and not an additional claim. (\"I could have said something else instead\", not \"I could have added another point\".) The reasoning given is that avoidinDHKH whereas giving an alternative claim gives the claim itself credence, and for a Migu to be effective it must be a boost for the claim and not for the person. (There is no rule to believe a more trustworthy person over a less trustworthy one, even though there is reason to believe one over the other.) This goes against the ruling of many leading commentators.\n\nRabbi Busel provides a rule of thumb in regards to Migu: No Migu can accomplish more than the alternative claim on which the Migu is based. The logic is that it would be unseemly to base the value of a claim on an alternative one and thereby give the actual claim greater power than the alternative. Also in most cases the greater power that the Migu has would be a logical reason for a dishonest litigant to make the Migu claim, which would in effect disqualify the Migu itself. (In most cases the Migu claim is in place of a claim that would be effective without a Migu, which is generally favored over a claim that requires a Migu to uphold it. In addition, a Migu is not completely believed; it is no more that a law that the Migu claim must be accepted by the court.) This explains why witnesses who come after the Migu claim is invoked and accepted, disqualify the Migu, even though the logic still exists (the litigant had no idea that the witnesses would come, and still he chose to use the weaker claim), because since the alternate claim would have been rejected at this point, the Migu may no longer operate.\n\nRabbi Busel made a general point, that to disqualify a Migu, any gain that can be achieved by making the current claim over the alternate one will suffice to disqualify the Migu. This includes a gain that most people would not lie for, which means that even a gain that would not create doubt about a claim would disqualify the Migu.\n"}
{"id": "52770171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52770171", "title": "MyDemocracy.ca", "text": "MyDemocracy.ca\n\nMydemocracy.ca is a public consultation commissioned by the Canadian federal government. It is intended to inform electoral reform. Replacing the existing first-past-the-post system with another voting system, before the next election, was a 2015 election promise.\n\nThe consultation was first reported publicly in early November 2016, with notices arriving by mail at the beginning of December. The survey was originally scheduled to end on December 30, but has since been extended to January 15, 2017.\n\nA small pilot study (4,273 subjects) ran between October 23, 2016 and November 22, 2016. The pilot study does not seem to have been registered or reported.\n\nA government official described the consultation as neither a referendum, a survey, nor a poll. The MyDemocracy.ca FAQ calls it \"...more than just a survey. MyDemocracy.ca is a public engagement and education platform.\"\n\nThere have been calls for a referendum, as recommended in the Canadian House of Commons Special Committee on Electoral Reform's report.\n\nThe website does not ask direct questions about subjects' preferences for specific voting systems. Instead, it asks about preferences for features of electoral systems. No one voting system can have all features, so it explicitly asks about trade-offs.\n\nThis approach has been criticized, particularly by proponents of proportional representation, with Fair Vote Canada publishing its own interpretations of the questions in terms of voting systems.\n\nMyDemocracy.ca uses answers to group the visitor into categories:\n\nThese categories were derived from a pilot study of 4,273 Canadians over the age of 18. Weighted data from the pilot study was used to created these five categories:\n\nLatent clusters were identified using a finite mixture model, where the number of components was determined through a dissimilarity-based partitioning method. The mixture model itself was defined such that all within-component covariance matrices were assumed to be diagonal, meaning that the [eight] constitutive factors were assumed to be locally independent. Cluster variances were set to have equal shape, volume and orientation (an \"EEI\" model).\nThe consultation parallels other consultations. The all-party Canadian House of Commons Special Committee on Electoral Reform held country-wide consultations, which went into a December 1 report. These included consultations through MPs, with MPs of all parties urged to hold townhall meetings with their constituents. Canadians were also urged to hold their own consultation meetings, and sent the results to the government; a Canadian federal electoral reform dialogue hosting guide was released.\n\nInformation given on the site is covered under the Privacy Act and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.\n\nThe FAQ initially stated that people would not be counted unless they gave demographic information, such as household income. Complaints lead to a change in advertised study methodology. People who refuse to give demographic information will now be included in raw figures, but their response will not be weighted and extrapolated to other people with similar demographics\n\nWhile users are not required to give names, their postal code, profession, education, gender, age, language, and membership in certain groups is requested. This is more than enough information to identify a specific person from the data they submit; deanonymization has been demonstrated using only gender, age, and postal code.\n\nThe site also collects IP addresses and \"information such as page requests, browser type, operating system, average time spent on the website, and pixel codes (i.e. which pages you visit on the website)\".\n\nThe possibility of people casting multiple votes has been raised, but Vox Pops Labs has methods they intend using to reject multiple votes.\n\nThe survey was not run by Statistics Canada, the arms-length Canadian government body that typically does surveys, but by Vox Pops Labs. The site is encrypted, with a public key certificate issued by Amazon, to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks. It is hosted by GoDaddy.\n\nThe cost of commissioning Vox Pop Labs to design and run the survey was initially estimated at CAN$250 000, but the final cost was $326 500. The cost of the mail-out of 13 million postcards announcing the plan has not been released, but is estimated at ~CAN$2 million.\n\nThe Elections Canada Chief Electoral Officer estimated the cost of a full referendum at CAN$300 million, and said that he would need to know by December 2016 if a vote was coming. However, he also said that there were possibilities for savings, such as a mail-in ballot, or holding the referendum at the same time as the next federal election, which could plausibly reduce the costs to less than 40 cents per voter (about $15 million).\n"}
{"id": "55592683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55592683", "title": "No-impeachment rule", "text": "No-impeachment rule\n\nThe no-impeachment rule (also known as the non-impeachment rule) is a rule in the procedural law of many jurisdictions. It says testimony from jurors about what occurred during jury deliberations may not be used to impeach a verdict during an appeal. The rule originated in common law and has been codified into statute in many jurisdictions.\n\nThe United States Federal Rules of Evidence, section 606(b) defines it as:\n\n(1) Prohibited Testimony or Other Evidence. During an inquiry into the validity of a verdict or indictment, a juror may not testify about any statement made or incident that occurred during the jury deliberations; the effect of anything on that juror’s or another juror’s vote; or any juror’s mental processes concerning the verdict or indictment. The Court may not receive a juror’s affidavit of evidence of a juror’s statement on these matters.\n\n(2) Exceptions. A juror may testify about whether:\n\nUnder common law, jurors were forbidden from impeaching their own verdict. Some states adopted a more limited version of the no-impeachment rule, known as the \"Iowa rule\" which \"prevented jurors from testifying only about their own subjective beliefs, thoughts, or motives during deliberations.\"\n\nThe Federal rule has been adopted into the law of 42 jurisdictions. The Iowa rule has been adopted in 9 jurisdictions.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court created a racial bias exception to the rule in their decision in \"Peña-Rodriguez v. Colorado\" (2017).\n\n"}
{"id": "2426266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2426266", "title": "Parades Commission", "text": "Parades Commission\n\nThe Parades Commission is a quasi-judicial non-departmental public body responsible for placing restrictions on any parades in Northern Ireland it deems contentious or offensive. It is composed of seven members, all of whom are appointed by the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. Restrictions it can impose include a prohibition on music being played, re-routing parades to avoid contentious areas, or banning certain participants based on previous breaches of its determinations. Its rulings are usually enforced by either parade stewards or the police, though there are disputes as to whether this is done to the letter of the law in certain areas. The Commission acts under the Public Processions (Northern Ireland) Act 1998. \n\nParade organisers and participants are liable to arrest and prosecution for breaching any of the Commission's rulings, although no-one has been charged since the Commission was established in 1998. A section 6(7) offence has a maximum punishment of six months imprisonment or level five on the standard scale.\n\nThe Commission was set up after the large-scale civil strife that followed the Drumcree conflict over an Orange Order parade in Portadown. It has come under strong criticism from the Order. The Grand Lodge of the Order has a policy of non-engagement with the Commission, although some private and district lodges, particularly those with contentious parades, have agreed to talk to it.\n\nAs of September 2018, the Commissioners are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1068174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068174", "title": "Piratbyrån", "text": "Piratbyrån\n\nPiratbyrån ( \"The Pirate Bureau\") was a Swedish organization (or think tank) established to support the free sharing of information, culture, and intellectual property. Piratbyrån provided a counterpoint to lobby groups such as the Swedish Anti-Piracy Bureau.\n\nIn 2005 Piratbyrån released an anthology entitled \"Copy Me\", containing selected texts previously available from its website. Members of Piratbyrån participated in debates on Swedish Radio and Swedish Television and also gave several lectures in other European countries, such as at the 2005 22nd Chaos Communication Congress in Berlin.\n\nPiratbyrån's activities might have changed over the years, partly as a result of the addition of the Pirate Party to the Swedish political scene. During Walpurgis Night 2007, Piratbyrån burned all of their remaining copies of \"Copy Me\" in a ritual-like performance, declaring:\n\nThe file-sharing debate is hereby buried. When we talk about file-sharing from now on it's as one of many ways to copy. We talk about better and worse ways of indexing, archiving and copying—not whether copying is right or wrong. Winter is pouring down the hillside. Make way for spring!\n\nJonas Andersson, a Swedish researcher specialized in the politics of file-sharing, gave this brief definition in October 2009:\n\nPiratbyrån is entirely separate from The Pirate Party; it is more of a loosely organised think-tank, a website, a philosophical greenhouse or FAQ guide to digitization.\n\nThe MPAA-funded Svenska Antipiratbyrån (Swedish Anti-Piracy Bureau), an agency devoted to fighting copyright infringement, was formed in 2001, before Piratbyrån. Piratbyrån humorously copied the name of their opponent, removing the \"anti\".\n\nIn June 2010 the group disbanded following the death of co-founder and prominent member Ibrahim Botani, also known as Ibi Kopimi Botani. Several former members of Piratbyrån are now involved in Telecomix. The front page of the website was replaced with the three words (Swedish for \"Closed for reflection\").\n\nIn 2008 Piratbyrån published a report titled \"Piratbyrån - The Bureau of Piracy Activities 2007\" which starts with the following description of the organisation:\n\nAs Piratbyrån received an \"award of distinction\" at Prix Ars Electronica in 2009, the jury statement said:\n\nMembers of Piratbyrån founded the BitTorrent tracker The Pirate Bay in 2003 as a Swedish language site. The Pirate Bay now operates independently from Piratbyrån, although a number of The Pirate Bay administrators were also active in Piratbyrån.\n\nOn the morning of 31 May 2006, the servers of both The Pirate Bay, a popular Swedish BitTorrent tracker, and Piratbyrån were confiscated in a raid by Swedish police. The seizure was part of investigation into possible illegal activities on the part of The Pirate Bay. Piratbyrån and the Antipiratbyrån set up a temporary news blog during the investigation.\n\nIn \"Piratbyrån - The Bureau of Piracy Activities 2007\", published in 2008, Piratbyrån list its activities for the year 2007. Activities by Piratbyrån members include lectures at universities and conferences, the publication of reports, participation in art projects and research projects, an interview with Vanity Fair in February 2007, participation in the planning of The Oil of the 21st Century conference in Berlin, presentations at a Norwegian computer party (The Gathering), interviews to the media regarding the raid on The Pirate Bay, opening of a webshop to sell Kopimi Klothing, participation in the organisation of protests to mark the one-year anniversary of the police raid on The Pirate Bay, attendance of the BELEF07 festival in Belgrade (Serbia), and participation in the organisation of a one-day art event in Stockholm titled \"Who Makes And Owns Your Work\".\n\nIn March 2007 Piratbyrån members were invited to a meeting with the executive group for the Swedish Film Institute, to share their views about film and copying. According to Piratbyrån \"The leadership listens with interest — only to some months later launch new anti-piracy initiatives...\". In the same month Piratbyrån collaborates with the Norwegian group Piratgruppen, launching the counter-campaign \"Piracy frees music\" (promoted via The Pirate Bay), in response to the \"Piracy kills music\" anti-piracy campaign by the Norwegian record industry.\n\nIn 2007 members of Piratbyrån also contributed to the production of the film \"Steal This Film (Part Two)\", which features interviews with Piratbyrån members and was released in December 2007.\n\nPiratbyrån organized the \"Spectrial\", a theatricalizing intervention in The Pirate Bay trial in Stockholm, early in 2009.\n\nInstalled the Embassy of Piracy - The Embassy of Piracy, for the First Internet Pavilion at the Venice Biennial\n\nAt the Prix Ars Electronica Piratbyrån received an \"award of distinction\" (including a prize money of 5000 euro) in the category \"Digital Communities\". The motivation of the jury underlined the Piratbyrån \"never forget that humor and irony are among the strongest weapons available to cultural producers.\" \n\nThe Kopimi symbol, also spelled kopimi, was conceived in January 2005 by Piratbyrån co-founder Ibrahim Botani. The logo, pronounced \"copy me\", can be used to specifically request people to copy and distribute a work, for any purpose. Botani intended the logo to be the opposite of copyright, which usually restricts copying a work, and as a unifying symbol of the anti-copyright ideas Piratbyrån stood for. As such, Kopimi may be considered an anti-copyright notice of sorts.\n\nLater in 2005, the Kopimi logotype was included in the Piratbyrån book \"Copy Me\". It was also put on the front page of The Pirate Bay, where it remains until this day. The history section of the site stated: \"\"Some of you may have noticed that little symbol at the bottom of the page, the pyramid. It's a symbol called Kopimi (Copy Me) which was founded by an old friend of ours, the artist Ibi Botani. It's basically about promoting copying. Using the kopimi symbol on something not only shows that it is ok to copy it, it says it wants to be copied, mixed or manipulated!\"\n\nWhile Kopimi may appear to be a radical free content license, in effect similar to Creative Commons Zero, no one associated with Piratbyrån ever called Kopimi a license, instead describing it as a symbol of certain ideas. The website of Kopimi contains no terms or legal text. The Open Source Initiative, Free Software Foundation, or any other organisation within the open-source movement, does not list Kopimi as an approved license.\n\nWikimedia Commons, a repository of free content and a sister site of Wikipedia, allows users to label their files with Kopimi.\n\nKopimism and kopimist(s) are terms derived from Botani's symbol. It is unclear who coined them, but they have been used since at least July 2006. In January 2007, the Pirate Bay used the terms when they attempted (unsuccessfully) to buy Sealand, a large sea fort off the coast of England and a self-proclaimed country. The Pirate Bay declared: \"To make sure the owners will be kopimistic and that the country won’t be governed by people that do not care about its future, we have come up with a plan. With the help of all the kopimists on Internets, we want to buy Sealand.\"\"\n\nThe Missionary Church of Kopimism was founded in 2010 by Isak Gerson, a philosophy student and a member of the Pirate Party of Sweden. After two failed attempts, Kopimism was officially recognized as a religion by the Swedish government in January 2012. The Church considers copying a holy virtue, and uses various Kopimi symbols to present itself.\n\nInspired by Kopimi, the Pirate Party of Brazil created their own version of the concept called \"Copie\", which plays both on the Portuguese words \"copie\" (meaning copy) and \"co-pie\" (meaning tweet together). The Copie logo shows 5 birds tweeting together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11564562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11564562", "title": "Police (Scotland) Act 1956", "text": "Police (Scotland) Act 1956\n\nThe Police (Scotland) Act 1956 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nExcept for s.37, the whole Act was repealed by the Police (Scotland) Act 1967.\n"}
{"id": "3976341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3976341", "title": "Progressive Party (United States, 1924–34)", "text": "Progressive Party (United States, 1924–34)\n\nThe Progressive Party of 1924 was a new party created as a vehicle for Robert M. La Follette, Sr. to run for president in the 1924 election. It did not run candidates for other offices, and it disappeared after the election. The party advocated progressive positions such as government ownership of railroads and electric utilities, cheap credit for farmers, the outlawing of child labor, stronger laws to help labor unions, more protection of civil liberties, an end to American imperialism in Latin America, and a referendum before any president could lead the nation into war.\n\nAfter winning election to the United States Senate in 1905, La Follette had emerged as a leader of progressives. He sought the Republican presidential nomination in the 1912 election, but many of his backers switched to Theodore Roosevelt after the former president entered the race. La Follette refused to join Roosevelt's Progressive Party, and that party collapsed after 1916. However, the progressives remained a potent force within both major parties. In 1924, La Follette and his followers created their own Progressive Party which challenged the conservative major party nominees, Calvin Coolidge of the Republican Party and John W. Davis of the Democratic Party.\n\nThe Progressive Party was composed of La Follette supporters, who were distinguished from the earlier Roosevelt supporters by being generally more agrarian, populist, and midwestern in perspective, as opposed to urban, elite, and eastern. The party held a national convention in July 1924 that nominated a ticket consisting of La Follette for president, and La Follete later selected Democratic Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana as his running mate. The ticket enjoyed support among many farmers and laborers and was endorsed by the Socialist Party of America and the American Federation of Labor.\n\nIn the 1924 election, the party carried only La Follette's home state of Wisconsin. The ticket won 16.6% of the national popular vote and carried many counties in the Midwest and West with large German American elements or strong labor union movements. The party's share of the vote represents one of the best performances by a third party in presidential election history. After the election, La Follette continued to serve as a Republican Senator until his death in 1925. After his death, La Follette's family founded the Wisconsin Progressive Party and briefly dominated Wisconsin politics.\n\nYears before, La Follette had created the \"Progressive\" faction inside the Republican Party of Wisconsin in 1900. In 1912 he attempted to create a Progressive Party but lost control to Theodore Roosevelt, who became his bitter enemy.\n\nIn 1924 his new party (using the old 1912 name) called for public ownership of railroads, which catered to the Railroad brotherhoods. La Follette ran with Senator Burton K. Wheeler, Democratic Senator from Montana. The party represented a farmer/labor coalition and was endorsed by the Socialist Party of America, the American Federation of Labor and many railroad brotherhoods. The party did not run candidates for other offices, and only carried one state, Wisconsin. La Follette continued to serve in the Senate as a Republican until his death the following year, and was succeeded in a special election in 1925 by his son, Robert M. La Follette, Jr.\n\nThe La Follette family continued his political legacy in Wisconsin, publishing \"The Progressive\" magazine and pushing for liberal reforms. In 1934, La Follette's two sons began the Wisconsin Progressive Party, which briefly held power in the state and was for some time one of the state's major parties, often ahead of the Democrats.\n\nHiram W. Johnson, backed by suffragette and early feminist Katherine Philips Edson, was a candidate for California governor in 1910, the Progressive Party vice presidential nominee in 1912, and was reelected as Governor of California on the Progressive ticket in 1914. In 1916, he was elected as a Progressive to the U.S. Senate and continued his affiliation with the state party throughout his decades in the Senate, while simultaneously winning the Republican nomination. While Johnson was personally close to Theodore Roosevelt, he was much closer ideologically to Robert La Follette. Johnson sat out the general election in 1924 after unsuccessfully challenging President Calvin Coolidge for the Republican nomination. Johnson personally disliked La Follette but grudgingly admired his quixotic third-party bid and generally agreed with his 1924 platform.\n\nIn 1934, when the La Follettes founded the Wisconsin Progressive Party, the California Progressive Party obtained a ballot line in California and ran seven candidates (all unsuccessful, although Raymond L. Haight got 13% of the vote for Governor of California, running as a moderate against socialist and Democratic nominee Upton Sinclair). In 1936 they elected Franck R. Havenner as Congressman for California's 4th congressional district, and garnered a significant portion of the votes in some other races.\n\nHavenner became a Democrat before the 1938 race; Haight defeated eventual winner Culbert Olson in the Progressive primary election, but received only 2.43% of the vote in the general election as a Progressive; and by the time of the 1942 gubernatorial election, the Progressives were no longer on the California ballot. By 1944, Haight was again a Republican, a delegate to the Republican National Convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50791245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50791245", "title": "Public access file", "text": "Public access file\n\nA public access file (sometimes capitalized as Public Access File, sometimes abbreviated as PAF, and also called a public examination file) is a file that needs to be maintained by any United States employer hiring people in H-1B, H-1B1, or E-3 temporary nonimmigrant worker statuses. It is intended to include more background information related to the attestations made on the Labor Condition Application used for the Form I-129 and/or visa application that was used to acquire the nonimmigrant worker status. The file may be requested by any member of the public through telephone or email inquiries, that should be responded to within 3 business days. It is distinguished from a private access file that contains more sensitive and confidential employee data that must be shared with the U.S. Department of Labor if they choose to investigate. Regulations governing the public access file can be found in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 20 (Employee Benefits), or more specifically, in 20 CFR 655.760 (note that that section does not itself use the term \"public access file\" but other sections that refer to it refer to it with that name).\n\nWe use the term \"public access file\" to refer to all the records associated with a specific LCA. In other words, to each LCA, there is one associated public access file, and different LCAs have different public access files. This holds even though much of the content of these files overlaps.\n\nFor LCAs submitted by paper, a copy of the certified LCA (Form ETA 9035E or Form ETA 9035) and cover pages (Form ETA 9035CP) must be included. If the LCA is submitted electronically, a printout of the certified application, signed by the employer, needs to be included.\n\nThe goal of the public access file is to provide more information explaining the basis of the attestations made in the Labor Condition Application. Below, we go over the list of the attestations made and any information that must be included in the public access file for those attestations.\n\nIn the LCA, the employer must specify the wage that the non-immigrant worker(s) being hired via the LCA will be paid, and attest that the non-immigrant workers on behalf of whom the application is being made will be paid at or above both these numbers:\n\n\nThe employer must make similar attestation regarding non-wage benefits offered.\n\nThe public access file must contain four pieces of information relevant to the wage attestations:\n\n\nIn the LCA, the employer must attest that the hiring of non-immigrant workers will not adversely affect the working conditions of similarly employed workers at the company, and that the non-immigrant workers will be offered similar working conditions as native US workers. The official regulations on the public access file do not mention any information that needs to be included regarding working conditions.\n\nIn the LCA, the employer must attest that on the day the application is filed, there is not a strike, lockout, or work stoppage in the named occupation at the place of employment and that, if such a strike, lockout, or work stoppage occurs after the application is submitted, the employer will notify ETA within three (3) days of such occurrence and the application will not be used to file a work authorization petition until the ETA has determined that the work stoppage has ceased.\n\nThe official regulations on the public access file do not mention any information that needs to be included regarding strikes, lockouts, or work stoppages.\n\nIn the LCA, the employer must attest that as of the date of application, notice of the application has been or will be provided both to workers within the company in the said application. Also, the (prospective) workers on whose behalf the application is filed must be provided a copy of the application.\n\nThe public access file must include proof of satisfying union/employee notification requirements. For non-union positions this means the posting notice.\n\nThe employer must maintain additional evidence that the LCA was posted for at least ten business days (about two weeks) in two conspicuous locations. This evidence need only be included in the private access file.\n\nWhen the employer undergoes a change in corporate structure, the public access file must be amended to include a sworn statement by a responsible official of the new employing entity that it accepts all obligations, liabilities and undertakings under the LCAs filed by the predecessor employing entity, together with a list of each affected LCA and its date of certification, and a description of the actual wage system and FEIN of the new employing entity.\n\nThe following are relevant to H-1B-dependency. Employers who are H-1B-dependent, or who come close to being H-1B-dependent, may have some of these apply:\n\n\nThe PAF must be kept as long as the worker is employed in a status that depends on the corresponding LCA, and for one year after the worker is no longer in that status with the company. This one-year requirement pertains only to public access files; payroll records (that need to be maintained privately for a Department of Labor audit) need to be maintained for three years since the payment was made.\n\nThe employer must provide the public access file of any employee to any member of the public who requests it by phone or email. The turnaround time should be not more than three business days of the request. Failure to provide the public access file is, in and of itself, considered a compliance failure, regardless of whether there was any intent to deceive or inaccuracies in LCA attestations. However, as the H-1B Visa Reform Act of 2004 clarifies, violations will not be cited in case of good faith efforts to comply, if records are corrected within 10 days, and there is no general pattern of willful violations.\n\nIt is generally advised not to include any information in the public access file beyond that mandated by law, since additional information can compromise the privacy of employees and of the company. The additional information that may be demanded in an audit, such as payroll records, full details of wage calculations and H-1B dependency calculations, and evidence of duration of notice posting, needs to be maintained in a private access file.\n"}
{"id": "42699051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42699051", "title": "QIVICON", "text": "QIVICON\n\nQivicon is an alliance of companies from different industries that was founded in 2011 by Deutsche Telekom. The companies are collaborating on a cross-vendor, wireless-based home automation solution that has been available in the German market since fall 2013. It includes products in the areas of energy, security, and comfort. Qivicon won repeat awards from the international management consulting company Frost & Sullivan’s. In 2016, Frost & Sullivan has awarded Qivicon with the European Connected Home New Product Innovation Award. In 2014, the smart home platform has been awarded with the European Visionary Innovation Leadership Award in recognition of what the management consulting company saw as the most innovative Smart Home solution of the year.\n\nQivicon has stated that it would like to take the \"Smart Home\" further forward around the world. Its aim is to establish a vendor-neutral solution that enables users to combine different brands of Smart Home solutions and thereby makes home automation possible for everyone. The alliance uses Smart Home optimized wireless protocols to make solutions easy to install in any home without needing to lay cables. Qivicon reckons that a Smart Home solution will be all the more attractive for the user the more companies offer compatible devices for use in different areas. The technical platform is international and open for companies of all sizes and in all industries. Qivicon wants to enable its partners to gain access to the Smart Home market with the aid of a technical platform, thereby enabling them to make use of the new market and open up new business models.\n\nIt currently consists of over 43 companies in different industries such as energy, electrical and household appliances, security and telecommunications. Qivicon partners include Deutsche Telekom, E wie Einfach, eQ-3, Miele, Samsung and Philips. In March 2018, Deutsche Telekom announced that it had integrated the Home Connect platform, which works with Bosch and Siemens connected devices, into Qivicon to enable greater functunality between the two. For example, as well as being able to control connected Bosch and Siemens appliances directly via the Home Connect app. DT also announced a number of new compatible devices broaden the Qivicon portfolio, such as the Nest Protect smoke and CO alarm.\n\n\nThe Qivicon platform has been around in the German market since the fall of 2013. It connects and combines controllable devices made by different manufacturers. Every partner company can market their product offer of its own and develop apps to control them. To date, the product portfolio consists of devices such as motion detectors, smoke detectors, water detectors, wireless adapters for power outlets, door and window contact, temperature and humidity sensors, wireless switches, carbon monoxide sensors, thermostats, cameras, household appliances (e. g. washing machines, dryers, coffee machines), weather stations, sound systems and lighting controls.\n\nThe platform’s technical control unit, its home base, is connected to the Internet via a broadband connection in the house or apartment. In August 2016, Qivicon launched a new generation of the home base focusing on international markets. The range of different models will keep up with the diverse range of wireless protocols found throughout the international market. The models all have an identical outward appearance. But they differ in terms of their pre-installed protocols. For example, the model designed for the German market, and several other markets, already includes the protocols HomeMatic, ZigBee Pro and the inclusion of HomeMatic IP and DECT ULE has also been completed. Another model includes the ZigBee Pro and Z-Wave radio modules. All versions of the new home base can be connected to home DSL routers either by cable, wirelessly, via Wi-Fi or via Deutsche Telekom´s Speedport Smart router.\n\nThe system can be expanded to include other wireless standards by means of USB sticks for which there are four corresponding slots in the home base of the first generation and two slots in the second generation. Qivicon partners’ devices can be controlled and monitored via various partner apps for the smartphone, the tablet or the PC. Since November 2017 Qivicon is compatible with Alexa from Amazon. Users can control lights, blinds or alarm systems with their voice via Amazon Echo or Google Home.\n\nIn March 2017, Deutsche Telekom launched a White Label Smart Home portfolio that includes platform, gateways, applications, compatible devices and services. The portfolio is designed to help telecommunications service providers, utility providers, hardware manufacturers and other enterprises create and offer smart home services.\n\nDeutsche Telekom extended its international footprint within the smart home sector by partnering with Cosmote, the largest mobile operator in Greece and part of the OTE group, as well as Hitch in Norway, adding Greece and Norway to Qivicon's current footprint of Germany, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Austria, and Italy.\n\nAV-Test, an IT security test institution, rates Qivicon as “secure”. It found that the Smart Home platform used encryption for communication and provided protection from unauthorized access.\n\nOhland, Günther. \"Smart-Living.\" Books on Demand, Norderstedt 2013. .\n\n"}
{"id": "57423876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57423876", "title": "Qimron v. Shanks", "text": "Qimron v. Shanks\n\nQimron v. Shanks, (2000) is a landmark ruling by the Israeli Supreme Court. The Court ruled that an Israeli scholar had a copyright on his reconstruction of an important Dead Sea Scroll and that his right had been violated by an unauthorized early publication of his work.\n\nMore than eight-hundred scrolls, including the oldest known copies of Old Testament books, are thought to have been written between the second century B.C. and A.D. 70 were discovered in 1947 near the Dead Sea in caves at Qumran on the West Bank. \n\nThereafter they were held at a museum in East Jerusalem. In 1967, the museum came under Israeli control following the Six‐Day War between Israel, Egypt, Jordan and Syria. While this brought the work on the scrolls under the auspices of the Israeli Antiquities Authority, this did not otherwise affect the work of an international team of scholars who had been appointed in 1953/54 to transcribe, edit, and publish the fragments found in Cave 4 at Qumran. It did however lead to resentment from scholars outside the team who were denied any access to the unpublished scrolls.\n\nIt was the first in which copyright law had been applied in court to a reconstruction of an ancient document.\n"}
{"id": "54008268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54008268", "title": "SS Kalibia v Wilson", "text": "SS Kalibia v Wilson\n\nSS Kalibia v Wilson, was the first decision of the High Court of Australia on the extent of the power of the Australian Parliament to make laws about shipping and navigation, including the Admiralty jurisdiction of the High Court. The High Court held that the power was limited to overseas and interstate trade and commerce. There was no separate power about navigation and shipping.\n\nSection 51 of the Constitution provides that the Australian Parliament has the power to make laws with respect to:\n\nSection 98 of the Constitution then provides that \n\nThe Parliament can also make laws conferring original jurisdiction on the High Court in any matter of Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.\n\nThe early drafts of the Constitution gave the Australian parliament power to make laws with respect to \"navigation and shipping\" as a separate head of power under section 51. In 1898 the drafting committee made two relevant changes, to remove shipping and navigation to section 98 and to make it a part of the trade and commerce power in section 51(1). It is not apparent from the debates why this was done, nor was there any apparent consideration as to the effect of the change.\n\nThe \"Seamen's Compensation Act\" was a uniform law that applied to all seamen on Australian registered ships and to Australian seamen on British and foreign ships engaged in the Australian coasting trade. The coasting trade was defined as carrying cargo from one port in Australia to another, even if those ports were in the same State. Because the trade and commerce power is limited to overseas and inter-state trade, there needed to be some other head of federal power to support its validity in providing for intrastate trade. The Commonwealth argued this power was found in sections 76(iii) and 98 of the Constitution.\n\nThe Kalibia was a British flagged screw steamer (SS) owned by the Clyde Shipping Company of Glasgow, that in 1909 had been chartered to carry cargo from New York to Australia, offloading cargo at Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. The first officer agreed to transport a small package from Adelaide to Brisbane that had been mistakenly offloaded from another cargo ship. It was alleged that the SS Kalibia had taken horses from Melbourne to Brisbane, but this was later agreed to be wrong.\n\nIn Melbourne the crew, described as Lascars, deserted the ship, complaining of being ill-treated and underfed. On arrival in Sydney the men were charged with combining to disobey lawful commands and were sentenced to imprisonment for 6 weeks, being the time the vessel would be absent from Sydney, at the end of which they would be placed on the vessel for the homeward journey.\n\nThe crew were replaced for the voyage to Brisbane by an Australia crew, including Alexander Wilson. Wilson was seriously injured on 29 April 1910 when he was knocked into the vessel's hold. He applied to the Supreme Court of NSW for an order that the ship be detained until a security bond was paid to cover any compensation that might be awarded to Wilson. Justice Street made an order in the absence of the owners of the SS Kalibia (ex parte). The owners sought to have the order set aside however Justice Gordon refused, holding that there was some evidence that the ship was engaged in the coasting trade and whether this was correct was a matter to be determined at trial. If the ship was permitted to depart Australia without providing security then Wilson would have no recourse. The security was subsequently set by consent at £500.\n\nIt was argued for Wilson that the order of Street J was \"ministerial\" rather than judicial and as such Gordon J had no jurisdiction to discharge the order and there was no appeal to the High Court. Griffith CJ was the only judge to deal with this argument in detail, holding that a power conferred upon a judicial officer was judicial unless there were \"clear words to show that it was dictatorial and unappealable\". It was an elementary rule of justice that a party affected by an ex-parte order could apply to have the order discharged.\n\nWilson had been engaged in Australia on a British ship, the critical point for the success of his application was whether the Kalibia was engaged in the coasting trade which required loading cargo in one Australian port to be unloaded at another. The only thing taken on board in Australia was the small case carried by the first officer as a favour for a shipping agent. Griffith CJ held that the essence of trade was a contract of carriage made on behalf of the ship and the case was therefore not cargo. Barton J similarly held that gratuitous carriage was not sufficient and that trading in this context connoted payment for freight. O'Connor J held that the isolated transaction had no trace of trade or business and was not conducted with the authority of the owners. Isaacs J also held that the captain had no apparent authority to engage in the coasting trade.\n\nThe court's finding that the Kalibia was not engaged in the coasting trade meant it was unnecessary to decide the constitutional validity of the Act, and the Court would not normally do so. On this occasion however each of the judges felt it was appropriate to express their opinion on the validity of the Act. albeit Higgins J did so with considerable reservation. One objection was that compensation for seamen did not fall within trade and commerce. None of the judges determined this objection. Each of the judges held that by including all coasting trade in Australia, including intrastate trade, the Act went beyond the Commonwealth power. Section 98 of the constitution explained the meaning of \"trade and commence\" and did not remove the need for such trade to be \"with other countries, and among the States\". There are echoes of the reserved powers doctrine in the judgments of Griffiths CJ, Barton and O'Connor JJ however their judgments were not based on it. Isaacs and Higgins JJ, who steadfastly rejected the reserved powers doctrine, similarly found that there was no constitutional power to regulate shipping and navigation within the limits of a State.\n\nWhere the judges differed was in applying the test from the decided cases, whether the invalid provisions could be severed. Griffith CJ held that the Act intended to apply to all ships engaged in the coasting trade without distinction and that the provisions could not therefore be severed. Barton J held that the definition of coasting trade was unambiguous and it was not the role of the Court to re-write the definition to make it constitutional. O'Connor J held that the provisions of the Act could not be separated, such that the entire Act was invalid. Isaacs J held that Parliament had made no distinction between inter-State and intra-State trade and that the enactment was therefore invalid.\n\nHiggins J dissented on the question of severability. His Honour had no doubt the Parliament intended the Act to apply to the coasting trade within the limits of a State, but that if Parliament had understood the limits of its power, the Act would have been limited to inter-State seamen.\n\nThe Commonwealth argued that the Act was a valid exercise of power under section 76(iii) of the Constitution, asserting that \"the Parliament may make laws in any matter of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction\". That is that the power to give the High Court jurisdiction with respect to admiralty and maritime matters implied a power on the part of the Commonwealth tho legislate as to those matters. Griffith CJ described the argument as quite untenable. Barton J held that this was a matter in which the over-riding power on the subject was the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Isaacs J noted that section 76 related solely to Parliament conferring original jurisdiction on the High Court. His Honour distinguished between the interpretation and enforcement of admiralty and maritime\nlaw and the alteration of that law.\n\nThe effect of the decision was that the Australian Parliament did not have power to alter maritime law or to deal with maritime affairs other than by reliance upon the heads of power in s 51, importantly (but not solely) the trade and commerce power. The decision has never been over-turned by the High Court, however doubts have been expressed about the legitimacy of the High Court's decision, with Higgins J describing the views on the reach of s 76(iii) expressed by Griffiths CJ, Barton and Isaacs JJ as obiter. More recently Justice Gummow, then sitting in the Federal Court, noted that Barton J's reasoning that Australia was not, in 1910, a \"separated nation of independent sovereignty in its relation to the United Kingdom\" no longer represented the modern constitutional position.\n\nA replacement \"Seamen's Compensation Act\" was passed in 1911, which was limited in its application to ships engaged in trade and commerce with other countries or among the States. The 1911 Act was challenged in \"Australian Steamships Ltd v Malcolm\" on the basis that compensation for seamen did not fall within trade and commerce. The majority, Isaacs, Gavan Duffy, Powers and Rich JJ (Griffith CJ & Barton J dissenting) held that the Act was a valid exercise of the trade and commerce power.\n\nIn the \"Navigation Act\" 1912 (Cth) the Parliament sought to overcome the question of severability by the inclusion of a provision that the Act was to be \"construed subject to the Constitution, and so as not to exceed the legislative power of the Commonwealth\" a provision that, in 1930, would be added to the \"Acts Interpretation Act\". There are limitations to the effectiveness of such an approach.\n\nThe Australian Law Reform Commission was asked to review all aspects of the Admiralty jurisdiction in Australia and chapter 5 of its report looked at both the history of the jurisdiction in Australia and made various recommendations for change, including the use of other constitutional heads of power as the foundation for Australian legislation. The report noted that the High Court had held in the Sea and Submerged lands case, that the territory of the States stopped at the low-water mark or at the line closing a bay, such that the external affairs power would permit the Parliament to make laws about ships voyaging from one port in Australia to another, even if those ports were in the same State. The Parliament subsequently enacted the \"Seafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation Act\" 1992 which relied upon additional heads of power, including the corporations power. In 2014 a Full Court of the Federal Court held that this meant the Act was effective in regulating the rights of employees of a trading corporation who worked on a vessel that was working in an area confined to the seas off Western Australia. The Court held it was unnecessary to decide the complex questions, arising from the decision in \"SS Kalibia v Wilson\" around whether the employer's business dealings were such that the ship was engaged in overseas or interstate trade or commerce.\n\nThe Labor Party twice held referendums to consider proposed changes to the Constitution to overcome the decision of the High Court by removing the limitation on the trade and commerce power to be with other countries or among the States. Neither referendum was successful.\n\nWrits were issued for a further referendum to be held on 11 December 1915 to cover substantially the same questions as were rejected in 1911 and 1913, however the referendum was cancelled and the writs withdrawn.\n\nOn 30 November 1917, the SS Kalibia was in the Atlantic Ocean south west of The Lizard, Cornwall () when it was torpedoed and sunk by the German submarine with the loss of 25 of her crew.\n"}
{"id": "36135674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36135674", "title": "Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987", "text": "Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987\n\nSati (Prevention) Act, 1987 is a law enacted by Government of Rajasthan in 1987. It became an Act of the Parliament of India with the enactment of The Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987 in 1988. The Act seeks to prevent Sati practice or the voluntary or forced burning or burying alive of widows, and to prohibit glorification of this action through the observance of any ceremony, the participation in any procession, the creation of a financial trust, the construction of a temple, or any actions to commemorate or honor the memory of a widow who committed sati.\n\nSati was first banned under Bengal Sati Regulation, 1829.\n\n"}
{"id": "696760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=696760", "title": "Simla Agreement", "text": "Simla Agreement\n\nThe Simla Agreement (or Shimla Agreement) was signed between India and Pakistan on 2 July 1972 in Simla, the capital city of the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It followed from the Bangladesh Liberation war in 1971 that led to the independence of Bangladesh, which was earlier known as East Pakistan and was part of the territory of Pakistan. India entered the war as an ally of Bangladesh which transformed the war into an Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. The agreement was ratified by the Parliaments of both the nations in same year.\n\nThe agreement was the result of resolve of both the countries to \"put an end to the conflict and confrontation that have hitherto marred their relations\". It conceived the steps to be taken for further normalisation of mutual relations and it also laid down the principles that should govern their future relations. However, this was not respected and aggression continued on both sides.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Simla, India, by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, the President of Pakistan, and Indira Gandhi, the Prime Minister of India. The agreement also paved the way for diplomatic recognition of Bangladesh by Pakistan. Technically the document was signed on 0040 hours in the night of 3 July, despite this official documents are dated 2 July 1972. Few major outcomes of the Simla Agreement are:\n\nThe agreement has not prevented the relationship between the two countries from deteriorating to the point of armed conflict, most recently in the Kargil War of 1999. In Operation Meghdoot of 1984 India seized all of the inhospitable Siachen Glacier region where the frontier had been clearly not defined in the agreement (possibly as the area was thought too barren to be controversial), this was considered as a violation of the Simla Agreement by Pakistan. Most of the subsequent deaths in the Siachen Conflict have been from natural disasters, e.g. avalanches in 2010, 2012 and 2016.\n\nSimla Agreement on Bilateral Relations between India and Pakistan signed by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, and President of Pakistan, Z. A. Bhutto, in Simla on 2 July 1972.\n\nThe Delhi Agreement on the Repatriation of War and Civilian Internees is a tripartite agreement among the aforementioned states, signed on 28 August 1973. The agreement was signed by Kamal Hossain, the Foreign Minister of the Government of Bangladesh, Sardar Swaran Singh, Minister of External Affairs of India and Aziz Ahmed, the Minister of State for Defense and Foreign Affairs of the Government of Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "509225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509225", "title": "Soldier Field", "text": "Soldier Field\n\nSoldier Field is an American football stadium located in the Near South Side of Chicago, Illinois. It opened in 1924 and is the home field of the Chicago Bears of the National Football League (NFL), who moved there in 1971.\n\nThe stadium's interior was mostly demolished and rebuilt as part of a major renovation project in 2002, which modernized the facility but lowered seating capacity, while also causing it to be delisted as a National Historic Landmark. Soldier Field has served as the home venue for a number of other sports teams in its history, including the Chicago Cardinals of the NFL, University of Notre Dame football, and the Chicago Fire of Major League Soccer, as well as games from the 1994 FIFA World Cup, the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup, and multiple CONCACAF Gold Cup championships. In 1968, it hosted the first Games of the Special Olympics. With a football capacity of 61,500, it is the third-smallest stadium in the NFL.\n\nIn 2016, Soldier Field became the second-oldest stadium in the league when the Los Angeles Rams began playing temporarily at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, which opened a year earlier than Soldier Field.\n\nSoldier Field was designed in 1919 and opened on October 9, 1924, as Municipal Grant Park Stadium. The name was changed to Soldier Field on November 11, 1925, as a memorial to U.S. soldiers who had died in combat. Its formal dedication as Soldier Field was on Saturday, November 27, 1926, during the 29th annual playing of the Army–Navy Game. Its design is in the Neoclassical style, with Doric columns rising above the East and West entrances. The stadium cost $13 million to construct ($182 million in 2015 dollars), a very large sum for a sporting venue at that time (in comparison, L.A. Memorial Coliseum had cost less than $1 million in 1923 dollars).\n\nIn its earliest configuration, Soldier Field was capable of seating 74,280 spectators and was in the shape of a U. Additional seating could be added along the interior field, upper promenades and on the large, open field and terrace beyond the north endzone, bringing the seating capacity to over 100,000.\n\nSoldier Field was used as a site for many sporting events and exhibitions. The Chicago Cardinals used it as their home field for their final season in Chicago in 1959. A dozen years later in September , the Chicago Bears moved in, originally with a three-year commitment. They previously played at Wrigley Field, best known as the home of the Chicago Cubs baseball team, but were forced to move to a larger venue due to post-AFL–NFL merger policies requiring that stadium capacities seat over 50,000 spectators. They had intended to build a stadium in Arlington Heights. In 1978, the Bears and the Chicago Park District agreed to a 20-year lease and renovation of the stadium. Both parties pooled their resources for the renovation. The playing surface was AstroTurf from 1971 through 1987, replaced with natural grass in 1988.\n\nIn 1989, Soldier Field's future was in jeopardy after a proposal was created for a \"McDome\", which was intended to be a domed stadium for the Bears, but was rejected by the Illinois Legislature in 1990. Because of this, Bears president Michael McCaskey considered relocation as a possible factor for a new stadium. The Bears had also purchased options in Hoffman Estates, Elk Grove Village, and Aurora. In 1995, McCaskey announced that he and Northwest Indiana developers agreed to construction of an entertainment complex called \"Planet Park\", which would also include a new stadium. However, the plan was rejected by the Lake County Council, and in 1998, Chicago mayor Richard M. Daley proposed that the Bears share Comiskey Park with the Chicago White Sox.\n\nBeginning in 1978, the plank seating was replaced by individual seats with backs and armrests. In 1982, a new press box as well as 60 skyboxes were added to the stadium, boosting capacity to 66,030. In 1988, 56 more skyboxes were added increasing capacity to 66,946. Capacity was slightly increased to 66,950 in 1992. By 1994, capacity was slightly reduced to 66,944. During the renovation, seating capacity was reduced to 55,701 by building a grandstand in the open end of the U shape. This moved the field closer to both ends at the expense of seating capacity. The goal of this renovation was to move the fans closer to the field. The front row 50-yard line seats were then now only away from the sidelines, the shortest distance of all NFL stadiums, until MetLife Stadium opened in 2010, with a distance of 46 feet.\n\nIn 2001, the Chicago Park District, which owns the structure, faced substantial criticism when it announced plans to alter the stadium with a design by Benjamin T. Wood and Carlos Zapata of the Boston-based architecture firm Wood + Zapata. Stadium grounds were reconfigured by Chicago-based architecture firm of Lohan Associate, led by architect Dirk Lohan, the grandson of architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. The stadium's interior would be demolished and reconstructed while the exterior would be preserved. This is an example of facadism. A similar endeavor of constructing a new stadium within the confines of an historic stadium's exterior was completed in Leipzig, Germany's Red Bull Arena, which similarly build a modern stadium while persevering the exterior of the original Zentralstadion.\n\nOn January 19, 2002, the night of the Bears playoff loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, demolition was begun as tailgate fires still burned in the trashcans in the parking lots. Removal of 24,000 stadium seats in 36 hours by Archer Seating Clearinghouse, a speed record never exceeded since, was the first step in building the new Soldier Field. Nostalgic Bears fans, recalling the glory seasons, especially 1985, along with some retired players picked up their seats in the South Parking lot.\n\nThe foremen on the job were Grant Wedding, who himself installed the seats in 1979, and Mark Wretschko who was an executive for the factory who made the 1979 seats.\n\nDozens of articles by writers and columnists attacked the project as an aesthetic, political, and financial nightmare. The project received mixed reviews within the architecture community, including criticism by civic and preservation groups. Prominent American architect and Chicagoan Stanley Tigerman called it \"a fiasco\". The \"Chicago Tribune\" architecture critic Blair Kamin dubbed it the \"Eyesore on the Lake Shore\". The renovation was described by some as \"a spaceship landed on the stadium\". Lohan responded,\n\nI would never say that Soldier Field is an architectural landmark. Nobody has copied it; nobody has learned from it. People like it for nostalgic reasons. They remember the games and parades and tractor pulls and veterans' affairs they've seen there over the years. I wouldn't do this if it were the Parthenon. But this isn't the Parthenon.\n\nProponents argued the renovation was direly needed citing aging and cramped facilities. \"The New York Times\" ranked the renovated Soldier Field as one of the five best new buildings of 2003. Soldier Field was given an award in design excellence by the American Institute of Architects in 2004.\n\nOn September 23, 2004, as a result of the 2003 renovation, a 10-member federal advisory committee unanimously recommended that Soldier Field be delisted as a National Historic Landmark. The recommendation to delist was prepared by Carol Ahlgren, architectural historian at the National Park Service's Midwest Regional Office in Omaha, Nebraska. Ahlgren was quoted in Preservation Online as stating that \"if we had let this stand, I believe it would have lowered the standard of National Historic Landmarks throughout the country\", and, \"If we want to keep the integrity of the program, let alone the landmarks, we really had no other recourse.\" The stadium lost the Landmark designation on February 17, 2006.\n\nIn May 2012, the stadium became the first NFL stadium to achieve LEED status.\n\nThe closest Chicago 'L' station to Soldier Field is the Roosevelt station on the Orange, Green and Red lines. The Chicago Transit Authority also operates the #128 Soldier Field Express bus route to the stadium from Ogilvie Transportation Center and Union Station. There are also two Metra stations close by—the Museum Campus/11th Street station on the Metra Electric Line, which also is used by South Shore Line trains, and 18th Street, which is only served by the Metra Electric Line. Pace also provides access from the Northwest, West and Southwest suburbs to the stadium with four express routes from Schaumburg, Lombard, Bolingbrook, Burr Ridge, Palos Heights and Oak Lawn.\n\n\n\nNIU Huskies football plays select games at Soldier Field, all of which have featured the Huskies hosting a team from the Big Ten Conference. Northern Illinois University (NIU) is located in DeKalb, to the west on Interstate 88. \n\nNotre Dame Fighting Irish football used the stadium as home field for the 1929 season while Notre Dame Stadium was being constructed. The school has used Soldier Field for single games on occasion both prior to and since the 1929 season.\n\nThe Notre Dame Fighting Irish and Miami RedHawks played a doubleheader on February 17, 2013 with the Wisconsin Badgers and Minnesota Golden Gophers in the \"Hockey City Classic\", the first outdoor hockey game in the history of the stadium. A \"Chicago Gay Hockey Association\" intra-squad game was held in affiliation with the Hockey City Classic.\n\nThe Chicago Blackhawks played against the Pittsburgh Penguins on March 1, 2014 as part of the NHL's Stadium Series. The Blackhawks defeated the Penguins 5-1 before a sold-out crowd of 62,921. The team also held its 2015 Stanley Cup Championship celebration at the stadium instead of Grant Park, where other city championships have typically been held, due to recent rains.\n\nFebruary 7, 2015 Soldier Field hosted another edition of the Hockey City Classic. The event had been delayed due to unusually warm weather (42 °F) and complications with the quality of the ice. The 2015 edition of the Hockey City Classic featured a match between Miami of Ohio and Western Michigan, followed by a match between the Big Ten's Michigan and Michigan State February 5 the organizers of the Hockey City Classic organized the \"Unite on the Ice\" event benefiting St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. The event was centered upon a celebrity hockey game with former NHL and AHL players, as well as a public free skate at Soldier Field. Participants in the celebrity game included Éric Dazé, Jamal Mayers and Gino Cavallini. Denis Savard was in attendance, serving as an 'honorary coach' during the game. February 15, 2015 Soldier Field hosted another \"Chicago Gay Hockey Association\" intra-league match in association with the Hockey City Classic at Soldier Field.\n\n2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup \n2009 CONCACAF Gold Cup \n2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup \n2013 CONCACAF Gold Cup \n2015 CONCACAF Gold Cup \n\n\nThe first Special Olympics games were held at Soldier Field on July 20, 1968. The games involved more than 1,000 people with intellectual disabilities from 26 U.S. states and Canada competing in track and field and swimming. In 1970, the second international games occurred, when Special Olympics returned to Soldier Field.\n\nThe stadium hosted its first international rugby union test match between the United States Eagles and New Zealand All Blacks on November 1, 2014 as part of the 2014 end-of-year rugby union tests. More than half of the 61,500 tickets were sold within two days. The All Blacks beat the Eagles 74–6. The stadium hosted its second international rugby union match on September 5, 2015 with the United States hosting Australia as part of the 2015 Rugby World Cup warm-up matches shortly before both teams were due to travel to England for the 2015 Rugby World Cup. The Eagles were defeated 47–10. Ireland beat New Zealand 40-29 on November 5, 2016 at Soldier Field, as part of the 2016 end-of-year rugby union internationals – the very first time Ireland had beaten the All Blacks in a Test match in 111 years of play.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38785445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38785445", "title": "Soring", "text": "Soring\n\nSoring is the use of chemicals, pressure or devices to cause pain to the front feet and legs of horses when they touch the ground. This results in the horses picking up their front feet higher and faster than they would do naturally. It is an abusive and prohibited practice, illegal in the U.S. under the Horse Protection Act of 1970 (HPA). It is closely associated with a unique high-stepping action of the front legs called \"big lick\" movement in show ring Tennessee Walking Horses. Under normal circumstances, \"big lick\" action is normally created by horseshoes that have added pads and weight (sometimes called \"stacks\"), usually combined with additional weighted chains or rollers placed around the pasterns to create dramatic, high-stepping flashy action of the horse's front legs, desired in the horse show ring. Practitioners of soring do so because they believe that the pain associated with this practice exaggerates the \"big lick\" to a greater degree and gives them a competitive edge over horses that are not treated in this manner. Other breeds that have a history of soring abuses include the Racking Horse and the Spotted Saddle Horse. Both criminal and civil penalties can be assessed against individuals who engage in soring.\n\nDuring the late 1940s and early 1950s, when Tennessee Walking Horses enjoyed a surge of widespread popularity with the general public, exaggerated front leg action, especially at the running walk, drew spectators to horse shows and helped increase the popularity of the breed. This action was also rewarded by judges. This began the rage for \"big lick\" movement. While \"lite shod\" horses with naturally good movement could comfortably perform this crowd-pleasing gait at the time, it took both natural ability and considerable time to properly train and condition the horse.\n\nSome individuals, wishing to produce similar movement in less-talented horses or in less time, borrowed practices used by other breeds to enhance movement. This included action devices such as weighted shoes, \"stacks\" (stacked pads), and the use of weighted chains around the pasterns, all of which, within certain limits, were allowed.\n\nAs these methods produced horses that won in the show ring, and as ever-higher and more dramatic action was rewarded by the judges, some trainers turned to less savory methods to produce high action in a hurry. These methods include excessively heavy weighted chains, use of tacks deliberately placed under the shoe into the \"white line,\" or quick, of the hoof, trimming the sole of the hoof to the point that it bleeds or is bruised, increasing the weight of the stacked pads by driving in a large number of concealed nails and the controversial practice of \"soring\", which is the application of a caustic chemical agent to the pastern of the front legs to cause pain when the chains bang against the pastern with every step. The outcome of these practices is so much pain in the horse's front hooves that the horse snatches its feet off the ground as fast as possible in an attempt to alleviate the pain. Correspondingly, the horse steps under itself as far as possible with its hind legs to relieve the forelegs of weight. This results in the \"squatting\" body outline (hindquarters extremely lowered, forelegs flung very high) typical of the \"big lick\" horse. Such abuses are illegal under the Horse Protection Act of 1970, but are still practiced.\n\nMeasures have been taken to stop the practice, and many supporters of the Tennessee Walking Horse have organized to oppose soring. The HPA, created specifically to stop such practices and to monitor the Tennessee Walking Horse in particular, prohibits the use of soring agents. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), part of the USDA, is working with the industry to enforce the law. Tennessee Walking Horse organizations send designated qualified persons (DQPs) to shows to inspect the horses, and, as funding permits, APHIS sends federally employed veterinary medical officers to work with DQPs at some shows.\n\nTrainers who oppose soring have formed and joined alternative breed organizations, including the National Walking Horse Association (NWHA) and Friends of Sound Horses (FOSH). All of these organizations promote the sound Tennessee Walking Horse. In addition, in 2005, the national directors of the Tennessee Walking Horse Breeders' and Exhibitors' Association (TWHBEA) voted to remove themselves from the National Horse Show Commission (NHSC), the sanctioning body closest to the soring issues. The TWHBEA formed its own sanctioning body, developed a new rule book and strict guidelines for affiliated horse shows and Horse Industry Organizations [HIO] that applied and were examined by the APHIS. The issue remains very controversial, particularly in Kentucky and Tennessee.\n\nSoring has been declared \"cruel\" and \"inhumane\" by the United States Congress. Similarly, the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) has described it as \"inhumane\" and \"unethical\".\n\nThe legal definition of soring in the Horse Protection Act of 1970 is:\n\n(A) an irritating or blistering agent has been applied, internally or externally, by a person to any limb of a horse, <br>(B) any burn, cut, or laceration has been inflicted by a person on any limb of a horse, <br>(C) any tack, nail, screw, or chemical agent has been injected by a person into or used by a person on any limb of a horse, or <br>(D) any other substance or device has been used by a person on any limb of a horse or a person has engaged in a practice involving a horse, and, as a result of such application, infliction, injection, use, or practice, such horse suffers, or can reasonably be expected to suffer, physical pain or distress, inflammation, or lameness when walking.\n\nClinical signs of a sored horse include:\n\nOne method of soring involves using chemical agents such as mustard oil, kerosene, and other caustic substances on the pasterns, bulbs of the heel, or coronary bands of the horses, causing burning or blistering of the horses' legs to accentuate their gaits. Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is sometimes added to increase the effect. The treated area is then often wrapped in plastic while the chemicals are absorbed. The chemical agents cause extreme pain, and usually lead to scarring. A distinctive scarring pattern is a characteristic indication of soring, so practitioners may attempt to disguise the scarring with a dye, or the horse's legs may be treated with salicylic acid to reduce scarring. These chemicals are harmful, usually quite toxic, and sometimes carcinogenic, such that practitioners must use a brush and wear gloves when applying them.\n\nOther methods of soring include pressure shoes, where the hoof is trimmed to the quick so that the sole is in direct contact with the pad or shoe. The horse may then be \"road foundered\", ridden up and down hard surfaces on the over-trimmed hooves, until they are very sore. Trainers sometimes place objects, such as metal beads, nails, or screws, under the pad, causing intense pressure, although this practice has begun to decrease with the use of fluoroscopy to detect such methods. Abusive use of chains (such as using them with chemical soring agents) is also a common practice.\n\n\"Action devices\" include \"stacks\"—multiple pads between hoof and horseshoe; and \"chains— bracelet-like chains or rollers placed around the pastern. Illegal use occurs if irritants have been placed on the same area of the horse's foot or leg. The movement of a chain over a chemically traumatised area of the leg increases the painful response, resulting in the exaggerated gait. \nSoring is always illegal, but allowing use of chains varies depending on the show-sanctioning organization. The United States Equestrian Federation (USEF), the national governing body for equestrian sport in the U.S., disallows action devices in the show ring for all recognized national breed affiliates. However, the Tennessee Walking Horse Breeders' and Exhibitors' Association, which sanctions many shows, is not affiliated with the USEF and has different rules.\n\nNew legislation to update the HPA may lead to restrictions on these devices.\n\n\n\nThe use of pads is controversial. Some criticize the band that holds the pad on, which they believe cuts into the hoof and may wear a slot into it. However, trainers commonly loosen the band when the horse is not being exercised, which may minimize the problem. Under normal conditions, if a pad is lost, it usually only affects the pad and not the base shoe, which remains intact. Injuries are usually very limited from \"throwing\" a set of pads. It is dangerous if a horse wearing pads pulls off a shoe, as not only will the pad come off, but the band may tear off part of the hoof wall. Horses wearing pads should not be turned out.\n\nSoring has been prohibited at sales and shows for decades, but is still practiced. It can be detected by observing the horse for lameness, assessing its stance, and palpating the lower legs. Some trainers can bypass inspectors by training horses not to react to the pain that palpation may cause, often by severely punishing the horse for flinching after the sored area is palpated. The practice is sometimes called \"stewarding\" in reference to the horse show steward, who is often the first line of rule enforcement at any horse show. Trainers may also time the use of the agents so that chemicals will not be detected when the horse is examined, but will be in effect when the rider goes into the ring. Others use topical anesthetics, which are timed to wear off before the horse goes into the show ring. Pressure shoeing is also used, eliminating use of chemicals altogether. Trainers who sore their horses leave the show grounds when they find that the more stringent federal inspectors are present.\n\nIn 2006, due to new techniques in both soring and detection, the USDA began a larger crackdown on soring within the industry. A new device known as a \"sniffer\" (also used to detect the chemical presence of bombs in airport security) can now be employed, where swabbed samples are taken from the horse and then \"sniffed\". At the 2006 Tennessee Walking Horse Celebration, the longstanding dispute between trainers and USDA inspectors came to a head. The inspectors disqualified six of ten horses from showing on the night of Friday, August 25, 2006. The trainers denied soring and challenged the monitoring methods. The result was that a number of celebration championship classes were canceled, and considerable controversy over the situation still exists. After a yearlong discussion between the industry and the USDA over the issues raised at the 2006 show, the 2007 championship went off without significant controversy.\n\nAn investigation by ABC News into the training methods of Tennessee Walking Horses revealed that many horses had been tortured and beaten to make them produce their signature high-stepping gait. In a video shot by the Humane Society of the United States, high-profile trainer Jackie McConnell is seen beating horses, using electric cattle prods, and soring their hooves with caustic chemicals. Additionally, a random inspection by the Department of Agriculture at the 2011 annual championship found that all of the 52 horses inspected had a foreign substance applied to their front hooves, either to cause pain or hide it.\n\nIn June 2012, the American Association of Equine Practitioners and the American Veterinary Medical Association jointly issued a call to ban both action devices (chains, rollers, etc.) and \"performance packages\", e.g. stacks or pads.\n\nAt the 2013 Tennessee Walking Horse National Celebration, USDA testing showed that 67% of the horses tested positive for substances that could be used to hide soring.\n\nJackie McConnell, a Tennessee Walking Horse trainer, owns Whittier Stables in Collierville, Tennessee. Once a prominent figure in the industry and hall of fame trainer, in 2012 McConnell pleaded guilty to 12 counts of animal cruelty and of violating the federal Horse Protection Act. Formal sanctions were imposed on Jackie McConnell by the US Department of Agriculture pursuant to the Horse Protection Act numerous times between 1979 and 2012. According to Roy Exum of \"The Chattanoogan\", \"McConnell has a known record that includes over 30 unbroken years of persistent violations of the federal Horse Protection Act, but because laws have been so lax, he has done little more than wink and continue on his way.\"\n\nIn 1986, McConnell was named Trainer of the Year by the Walking Horse Trainers Association. However, he had a long history of violations: In September 1998, McConnell entered a sored horse, Regal By Generator, in the 1998 Tennessee Walking Horse National Celebration and received a civil fine of $2,200 and a five-year disqualification from October 31, 2006, through October 30, 2011. In September 1989, McConnell was charged for exhibiting Executive Order (owned by Floyd Sherman) in the Tennessee Walking Horse National Celebration in Shelbyville while sore. For that offense, he received a $2,000 civil fine and a two-year disqualification from March 19, 1995, through March 18, 1997. In May 1979, he entered the sored horse Threat's Black Power in the Ninth Annual Fun Show in Shelbyville, Tennessee. A USDA veterinarian classified this horse as the \"sorest horse at the show,\" having an \"exhausted, steaming, defeated appearance\" and testified that the horse's front legs were covered with raised scars that when touched were found to be \"very sore\" causing \"extreme pain.\" McConnell received a $750 civil penalty and a six-month disqualification from September 9, 1985, through March 8, 1986. McConnell was also disqualified for a violation of a unilateral sore (September 12, 2006 to September 25, 2006). McConnell was disqualified for a violation of the scar rule (September 6, 2005 to September 19, 2005). He was disqualified for a NHSC 5 Pt. Exam Score (August 8, 2004 to August 21, 2004). He was disqualified for a bilateral sore from August 31, 2003, to April 30, 2004. He was disqualified for a unilateral sore from October 6, 2002 to October 19, 2002. McConnell was disqualified for violation of terms of a five-year USDA disqualification and suspended from November 19, 2009, to May 18, 2010.\n\nIn April and May 2011, an undercover investigator shot footage at McConnell's stable. The footage revealed two workers, Jeff Dockery and John Mays, applying caustic substances that cause soring to horses' legs and hooves and beating the animals with a wooden beam and an electric cattle prod to make them stand still during leg palpation. Soon after the undercover footage was released, state authorities raided McConnell's barn. After ABC News aired the footage, McConnell was banned for life from the Tennessee Walking Horse organization's biggest event and stricken from its hall of fame.\n\nIn September 2012, McConnell was found in violation of the federal Horse Protection Act; he was sentenced to three years probation and fined $75,000. McConnell faced 52 counts of transporting and showing abused horses. He pleaded guilty to a single charge of animal cruelty in an agreement with prosecutors. US District Judge Harry Sandlin Mattice Jr. accepted McConnell's plea. McConnell faced up to five years in prison if the agreement had not been accepted. He was required by the court to write a letter about the soring of horses, the pain it causes, the long-term effects, and its widespread use.\n\nMcConnell also pleaded guilty in state court to 12 of 22 counts of animal cruelty in 2012. He was sentenced to one year of house arrest and a $25,000 fine. The Circuit Judge Weber McGraw sentenced Jackie McConnell and two co-defendants in July 2013. Jeff Dockery pleaded guilty to three counts of animal cruelty and John K. Mays to fourteen. Dockery was sentenced to three years of probation and Mays to four years of probation. Under the state plea agreement, McConnell is not allowed to either own or train horses for 20 years. The judge gave McConnell 120 days to sell his two remaining horses. According to \"The Commercial Appeal\", \"This is the second time all three men have pleaded guilty rather than face trial.\"\n\nThe Tennessee Walking Horse Celebration, held each August in Shelbyville, Tennessee, banned McConnell from entering its grounds \"for any and all events, regardless of the event's affiliation or ownership,\" according to a statement from the board. \"This action is the strongest we can take and it clearly reflects our disgust with the actions of Mr. McConnell,\" said Doyle Meadows, CEO of Celebration.\n\nIn 2013 Lee and Mike McGartland entered a horse named The Royal Dollar in the 74th annual Red Carpet Show of the South. The Royal Dollar placed third in its class, but during a post-show inspection, a veterinary officer of the U.S. Department of Agriculture determined that The Royal Dollar was sore. From 2013 to 2016, the McGartlands received further official warnings and were identified as \"violators\" on the USDA web site. They sued the USDA, on the grounds that \"the enforcement program denies due process to those accused of violations and breaks privacy laws by publishing personal information.\" their case remains pending, but their lawsuit may be linked to the removal of records of animal welfare cases from the USDA's web site.\n"}
{"id": "5731517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5731517", "title": "Substitution of attorney", "text": "Substitution of attorney\n\nA substitution of attorney is a legal document that may be created during a lawsuit if a party wishes to replace its attorney with another one. Both attorneys must sign the document (which is otherwise void).\n"}
{"id": "12152878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12152878", "title": "Void marriage", "text": "Void marriage\n\nA void marriage is a marriage which is unlawful or invalid under the laws of the jurisdiction where it is entered. A void marriage is \"one that is void and invalid from its beginning. It is as though the marriage never existed and it requires no formality to terminate.\"\n\nA marriage, however, which can be canceled at the option of one of the parties is merely voidable, meaning it is subject to cancellation if contested in court. A marriage that is entered into in good faith, but which is subsequently found to be void, may be recognized as a putative marriage and the spouses as putative spouses, with certain rights granted by statute or common law, notwithstanding that the marriage itself is void.\n\nAccording to Paul J. Goda the distinction between void and voidable marriages arose in the context of a jurisdictional dispute between the civil and ecclesiastical courts. The civil courts held jurisdiction over property matters, while the church retained jurisdiction over the validity of marriages. There was an overlap in cases of inheritance where it was necessary to determine the legitimacy of putative heirs. With the Reformation the focus shifted from marriage as a religious matter to that of a civil contract. \"Early American courts accepted the distinction between canonical\nand civil disabilities as the rationale for void (civilly disabled) and voidable (canonically disabled) marriages.\" Colonial courts followed the Common Law view in looking to the capacity of the parties to enter into a legally binding contract. \n\nIn general, a marriage is void (as opposed to voidable) if:\n\n\nMost jurisdictions recognise the validity of marriages performed in another jurisdiction. However, a jurisdiction where the parties to the marriage normally reside may not recognise a \"foreign\" marriage. Common reasons for a court to find a marriage void \"ab initio\" are that the marriage is incestuous, polygamous, a same-sex marriage, or a group marriage.\n\nUnder the Domestic Relations Law of New York State, all incestuous marriages are void, but this does not include cousin marriages \"of any degree\":\n"}
{"id": "41594871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41594871", "title": "W. Wilson White", "text": "W. Wilson White\n\nW. Wilson White (1906 – 1964) was a prominent attorney in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and served as the first United States Assistant Attorney General for the United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division from 1957 to 1960. He was the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania from 1953 to 1957. White was also a partner in the law firm White and Williams LLP which was founded by his father, Thomas Raeburn White.\n"}
