{"id": "2201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2201", "title": "Aage Bohr", "text": "Aage Bohr\n\nAage Niels Bohr (; 19 June 1922 – 8 September 2009) was a Danish nuclear physicist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1975 with Ben Mottelson and James Rainwater \"for the discovery of the connection between collective motion and particle motion in atomic nuclei and the development of the theory of the structure of the atomic nucleus based on this connection\". Starting from Rainwater's concept of an irregular-shaped liquid drop model of the nucleus, Bohr and Mottelson developed a detailed theory that was in close agreement with experiments. Since his father, Niels Bohr, had won the prize in 1922, he and his father were one of the six pairs of fathers and sons who have both won the Nobel Prize and one of the four pairs who have both won the Nobel Prize in Physics.\n\nAage Niels Bohr was born in Copenhagen on 19 June 1922, the fourth of six sons of the physicist Niels Bohr and his wife Margrethe Bohr (née Nørlund). His oldest brother, Christian, died in a boating accident in 1934, and his youngest, Harald, from childhood meningitis. Of the others, Hans became a physician; Erik, a chemical engineer; and Ernest, a lawyer and an Olympic athlete who played field hockey for Denmark at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London. The family lived at the Institute of Theoretical Physics at the University of Copenhagen, now known as the Niels Bohr Institute, where he grew up surrounded by physicists who were working with his father, such as Hans Kramers, Oskar Klein, Yoshio Nishina, Wolfgang Pauli and Werner Heisenberg. In 1932, the family moved to the Carlsberg Æresbolig, a mansion donated by Carl Jacobsen, the heir to Carlsberg breweries, to be used as an honorary residence by the Dane who had made the most prominent contribution to science, literature or the arts.\n\nBohr went to high school at in Copenhagen. In 1940, shortly after the German occupation of Denmark in April, he entered the University of Copenhagen, where he studied physics. He assisted his father, helping draft correspondence and articles related to epistemology and physics. In September 1943, word reached his family that the Nazis considered them to be Jewish, because Aage's grandmother, Ellen Adler Bohr, had been Jewish, and that they therefore were in danger of being arrested. The Danish resistance helped the family escape by sea to Sweden. Bohr arrived there in October 1943, and then flew to Britain on a de Havilland Mosquito operated by British Overseas Airways Corporation. The Mosquitoes were unarmed high-speed bomber aircraft that had been converted to carry small, valuable cargoes or important passengers. By flying at high speed and high altitude, they could cross German-occupied Norway, and yet avoid German fighters. Bohr, equipped with parachute, flying suit and oxygen mask, spent the three-hour flight lying on a mattress in the aircraft's bomb bay.\n\nOn arrival in London, Bohr rejoined his father, who had flown to Britain the week before. He officially became a junior researcher at the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, but actually served as personal assistant and secretary to his father. The two worked on Tube Alloys, the British atomic bomb project. On 30 December 1943, they made the first of a number of visits to the United States, where his father was a consultant to the Manhattan Project. Due to his father's fame, they were given false names; Bohr became James Baker, and his father, Nicholas Baker. In 1945, the director of the Los Alamos Laboratory, Robert Oppenheimer, asked them to review the design of the modulated neutron initiator. They reported that it would work. That they had reached this conclusion put Enrico Fermi's concerns about the viability of the design to rest. The initiators performed flawlessly in the bombs used in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945.\n\nIn August 1945, with the war ended, Bohr returned to Denmark, where he resumed his university education, graduating with a master's degree in 1946, with a thesis concerned with some aspects of atomic stopping power problems. In early 1948, Bohr became a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. While paying a visit to Columbia University, he met Isidor Isaac Rabi, who sparked in him an interest in recent discoveries related to the hyperfine structure of deuterium. This led to Bohr becoming a visiting fellow at Columbia from January 1949 to August 1950. While in the United States, Bohr married Marietta Soffer on 11 March 1950. They had three children: Vilhelm, Tomas and Margrethe.\n\nBy the late 1940s it was known that the properties of atomic nuclei could not be explained by then-current models such as the liquid drop model developed by Niels Bohr amongst others. The shell model, developed in 1949 by Maria Goeppert-Mayer and others, allowed some additional features to be explained, in particular the so-called magic numbers. However, there were also properties that could not be explained, including the non-spherical distribution of charge in certain nuclei. In a 1950 paper, James Rainwater of Columbia University suggested a variant of the drop model of the nucleus that could explain a non-spherical charge distribution. Rainwater's model postulated a nucleus like a balloon with balls inside that distort the surface as they move about. He discussed the idea with Bohr, who was visiting Columbia at the time, and had independently conceived the same idea, and had, about a month after Rainwater's submission, submitted for publication a paper that discussed the same problem, but along more general lines. Bohr imagined a rotating, irregular-shaped nucleus with a form of surface tension. Bohr developed the idea further, in 1951 publishing a paper that comprehensively treated the relationship between oscillations of the surface of the nucleus and the movement of the individual nucleons.\n\nUpon his return to Copenhagen in 1950, Bohr began working with Ben Mottelson to compare the theoretical work with experimental data. In three papers, that were published in 1952 and 1953, Bohr and Mottelson demonstrated close agreement between theory and experiment; for example, showing that the energy levels of certain nuclei could be described by a rotation spectrum. They were thereby able to reconcile the shell model with Rainwater's concept. This work stimulated many new theoretical and experimental studies. Bohr, Mottelson and Rainwater were jointly awarded the 1975 Nobel Prize in Physics \"for the discovery of the connection between collective motion and particle motion in atomic nuclei and the development of the theory of the structure of the atomic nucleus based on this connection\". Because his father had been awarded the prize in 1922, Bohr became one of only four pairs of fathers and sons to win the Nobel Prize in Physics.\n\nOnly after doing his Nobel Prize-winning research did Bohr receive his doctorate from the University of Copenhagen, in 1954, writing his thesis on \"Rotational States of Atomic Nuclei\". Bohr became a professor at the University of Copenhagen in 1956, and, following his father's death in 1962, succeeded him as director of the Niels Bohr Institute, a position he held until 1970. He remained active there until he retired in 1992. He was also a member of the board of the Nordic Institute for Theoretical Physics (Nordita) from its inception in 1957, and was its director from 1975 to 1981. In addition to the Nobel Prize, he won the Dannie Heineman Prize for Mathematical Physics in 1960, the Atoms for Peace Award in 1969, H.C. Ørsted Medal in 1970, Rutherford Medal and Prize in 1972, John Price Wetherill Medal in 1974, and the Ole Rømer medal in 1976. Bohr and Mottelson continued to work together, publishing a two-volume monograph, \"Nuclear Structure\". The first volume, \"Single-Particle Motion,\" appeared in 1969; the second, \"Nuclear Deformations,\" in 1975.\n\nIn 1972 he was awarded an honorary degree, doctor philos. honoris causa, at the Norwegian Institute of Technology, later part of Norwegian University of Science and Technology.\n\nIn 1981, Bohr became a founding member of the World Cultural Council.\n\nHis wife Marietta died on 2 October 1978. In 1981, he married Bente Scharff Meyer. His son, Tomas Bohr, is a Professor of Physics at the Technical University of Denmark, working in the area of fluid dynamics. Aage Bohr died in Copenhagen on 9 September 2009. He was survived by his second wife and children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14770376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14770376", "title": "Absalom (name)", "text": "Absalom (name)\n\nAbsalom (English pronunciation , ; Biblical Greek ) is a masculine first name from the Old Testament, where Absalom is a son of King David.\n\nThe variant \nis usd as the name of the father-in-law of Rehoboam in 1 Kings (15:2,10), who in 2 Chronicles 11:20,21 is referred to by the shorter form \"Avshalom\". The modern Scandinavian first name, \"Axel\" has developed (via \"Axelen\") from Absalon, a 12th-century Danish archbishop and statesman. The variant \"Absolon\" is a German surname.\n\nThe name was also used in medieval England (variants \"Absolon, Apsolon, Abselon\"). As in the biblical story, the fleeing Absalom has his long hair caught in a tree, the name appears to have been a nickname for a man with long or thick hair, as suggested by a passage in the \"Canterbury Tales\",\nThis use as a nickname is possibly also the origin of Absalom as an English surname. The name Absalom continued to be used in Anglo-Saxon Protestantism in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nThe Hebrew name was used among Palestinian Jews in the 19th to early 20th century and remains current in Israel; it is mostly anglicized as \"Avshalom\", reflecting Modern Hebrew pronunciation.\n\n\n\n\n\"Absalom\" is a rare English surname, recorded as early as in the early 13th century. It derives from the first name \"Absalom\" which became popular in England in the 12th century. The surname remained rare throughout its existence, but it gave rise to a number of variants, such as \"Asplen\", and via the latter \"Aspling\" and \"Ashplant\".\n\nThe variant \"Absolon\" is found in England as well as in France and Germany, reaching Central Europe in the late medieval period, so that \"Absolon\" (feminine \"Absolonová\") is now also a Czech and Slovak surname.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "492331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492331", "title": "Arab citizens of Israel", "text": "Arab citizens of Israel\n\nArab citizens of Israel, or Arab Israelis, are Israeli citizens who are Arab. Many Arab citizens of Israel self-identify as Palestinian and commonly self-designate themselves as Palestinian citizens of Israel or Israeli Palestinians, though only about 13% of them hold a Palestinian nationality ID in addition to the Israeli one. A notable percentage of Arab citizens in Israel refer to themselves as Israeli Arabs, while rejecting Palestinian identity. The traditional vernacular of most Arab citizens, irrespective of religion, is the Palestinian dialect of Arabic. Most Arab citizens of Israel are functionally bilingual, their second language being Modern Hebrew. By religious affiliation, most are Muslim, particularly of the Sunni branch of Islam. There is a significant Arab Christian minority from various denominations as well as the Druze, among other religious communities.\n\nAccording to Israel's Central Bureau of Statistics, the Arab population in 2013 was estimated at 1,658,000, representing 21% of the country's population. The majority of these identify themselves as Arab or Palestinian by nationality and Israeli by citizenship. Arab citizens of Israel mostly live in Arab-majority towns and cities; with eight of Israel's ten poorest cities being Arab. The vast majority attend separate schools to Jewish Israelis, and Arab political parties have never joined a government coalition. Many have family ties to Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as well as to Palestinian refugees in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. Negev Bedouins and the Druze tend to identify more as Israelis than other Arab citizens of Israel.\n\nThe Arabs living in East Jerusalem and the Druze in the Golan Heights, occupied by Israel in the Six-Day War of 1967 and later annexed, were offered Israeli citizenship, but most have refused, not wanting to recognize Israel's claim to sovereignty. They became permanent residents instead. They have the right to apply for citizenship, are entitled to municipal services and have municipal voting rights.\n\nHow to refer to the Arab citizenry of Israel is a highly politicized issue and there are a number of self-identification labels used by members of this community. Generally speaking, supporters of Israel tend to use \"Israeli Arab\" or \"Arab Israeli\" to refer to this population without mentioning Palestine, while critics of Israel (or supporters of Palestinians) tend to use \"Palestinian\" or \"Palestinian Arab\" without referencing Israel. According to \"The New York Times\", most prefer now to identify themselves as Palestinian citizens of Israel rather than as Israeli Arabs. \"The New York Times\" uses both 'Palestinian Israelis' and 'Israeli Arabs' to refer to the same population.\n\nCommon practice in contemporary academic literature is to identify this community as \"Palestinian\" as it is how the majority self-identify (See Self-Identification below for more). Terms preferred by most Arab citizens to identify themselves include \"Palestinians\", \"Palestinians in Israel\", \"Israeli Palestinians\", \"the Palestinians of 1948\", \"Palestinian Arabs\", \"Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel\" or \"Palestinian citizens of Israel\". There are, however, individuals from among the Arab citizenry who reject the term \"Palestinian\" altogether. A minority of Israel's Arab citizens include \"Israeli\" in some way in their self-identifying label; the majority identify as Palestinian by nationality and Israeli by citizenship.\n\nThe Israeli establishment prefers \"Israeli Arabs\" or \"Arabs in Israel\", and also uses the terms \"the minorities\", \"the Arab sector\", \"Arabs of Israel\" and \"Arab citizens of Israel\". These labels have been criticized for denying this population a political or national identification, obscuring their Palestinian identity and connection to Palestine. The term \"Israeli Arabs\" in particular is viewed as a construct of the Israeli authorities. It is nonetheless used by a significant minority of the Arab population, \"reflecting its dominance in Israeli social discourse.\"\n\nOther terms used to refer to this population include \"Palestinian Arabs in Israel\", \"Israeli Palestinian Arabs\", \"the Arabs inside the Green Line\", and \"the Arabs within\" (). The latter two appellations, among others listed above, are not applied to the East Jerusalem Arab population or the Druze in the Golan Heights, as these territories were occupied by Israel in 1967. As the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics defines the area covered in its statistics survey as including East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, the number of Arabs in Israel is calculated as just over 20% of the Israeli population (2013).\n\nMost Israelis refer to the 1948 Arab–Israeli War as the War of Independence, while most Arab citizens refer to it as the Nakba (catastrophe), a reflection of differences in perception of the purpose and outcomes of the war.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1947–49 war, the territory previously administered by the British Empire as Mandatory Palestine was de facto divided into three parts: the State of Israel, the Jordanian-held West Bank, and the Egyptian-held Gaza Strip. Of the estimated 950,000 Arabs that lived in the territory that became Israel before the war, over 80% fled or were expelled. The other 20%, some 156,000, remained. Arab citizens of Israel today are largely composed of the people who remained and their descendants. Others include some from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank who procured Israeli citizenship under family-unification provisions that were recently made significantly more stringent.\n\nArabs who left their homes during the period of armed conflict, but remained in what had become Israeli territory, were considered to be \"present absentees\". In some cases, they were refused permission to return to their homes, which were expropriated and turned over to state ownership, as was the property of other Palestinian refugees. Some 274,000, or 1 of every 4 Arab citizens of Israel are \"present absentees\" or internally displaced Palestinians. Notable cases of \"present absentees\" include the residents of Saffuriyya and the Galilee villages of Kafr Bir'im and Iqrit.\n\nWhile most Arabs remaining in Israel were granted citizenship, they were subject to martial law in the early years of the state. Travel permits, curfews, administrative detentions, and expulsions were part of life until 1966. A variety of Israeli legislative measures facilitated the transfer of land abandoned by Arabs to state ownership. These included the Absentee Property Law of 1950 which allowed the state to take control of land belonging to land owners who emigrated to other countries, and the Land Acquisition Law of 1953 which authorized the Ministry of Finance to transfer expropriated land to the state. Other common legal expedients included the use of emergency regulations to declare land belonging to Arab citizens a closed military zone, followed by the use of Ottoman legislation on abandoned land to take control of the land.\n\nArabs who held Israeli citizenship were entitled to vote for the Israeli Knesset. Arab Knesset members have served in office since the First Knesset. The first Arab Knesset members were Amin-Salim Jarjora and Seif el-Din el-Zoubi who were members of the Democratic List of Nazareth party and Tawfik Toubi member of the Maki party.\n\nIn 1965 a radical independent Arab group called \"al-Ard\" forming the Arab Socialist List tried to run for Knesset elections. The list was banned by the Israeli Central Elections Committee.\n\nIn 1966, martial law was lifted completely, and the government set about dismantling most of the discriminatory laws, while Arab citizens were granted the same rights as Jewish citizens under law.\n\nAfter the 1967 Six-Day War, Arab citizens were able to contact Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip for the first time since the establishment of the state. This along with the lifting of military rule, led to increased political activism among Arab citizens.\n\nIn 1974, a committee of Arab mayors and municipal councilmen was established which played an important role in representing the community and pressuring the Israeli government. This was followed in 1975 by the formation of the Committee for the Defense of the Land, which sought to prevent continuing land expropriations. That same year, a political breakthrough took place with the election of Arab poet Tawfiq Ziad, a Maki member, as mayor of Nazareth, accompanied by a strong communist presence in the town council. In 1976, six Arab citizens of Israel were killed by Israeli security forces at a protest against land expropriations and house demolitions. The date of the protest, 30 March, has since been commemorated annually as Land Day.\n\nThe 1980s saw the birth of the Islamic Movement. As part of a larger trend in the Arab World, the Islamic Movement emphasized moving Islam into the political realm. The Islamic movement built schools, provided other essential social services, constructed mosques, and encouraged prayer and conservative Islamic dress. The Islamic Movement began to affect electoral politics particularly at the local level.\n\nMany Arab citizens supported the First Intifada and assisted Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, providing them with money, food, and clothes. A number of strikes were also held by Arab citizens in solidarity with Palestinians in the occupied territories.\n\nThe years leading up to the Oslo Accords were a time of optimism for Arab citizens. During the administration of Yitzhak Rabin, Arab parties played an important role in the formation of a governing coalition. Increased participation of Arab citizens was also seen at the civil society level. However, tension continued to exist with many Arabs calling for Israel to become a \"state of all its citizens\", thereby challenging the state's Jewish identity. In the 1999 elections for prime minister, 94% of the Arab electorate voted for Ehud Barak. However, Barak formed a broad left-right-center government without consulting the Arab parties, disappointing the Arab community.\n\nTensions between Arabs and the state rose in October 2000 when 12 Arab citizens and one man from Gaza were killed while protesting the government's response to the Second Intifada. In response to this incident, the government established the Or Commission. The events of October 2000 caused many Arabs to question the nature of their Israeli citizenship. To a large extent, they boycotted the 2001 Israeli Elections as a means of protest. This boycott helped Ariel Sharon defeat Ehud Barak. In 1999 elections, more than 90 percent of Israel's Arab minority had voted for Ehud Barak. IDF enlistment by Bedouin citizens of Israel dropped significantly.\n\nDuring the 2006 Lebanon War, Arab advocacy organizations complained that the Israeli government had invested time and effort to protect Jewish citizens from Hezbollah attacks, but had neglected Arab citizens. They pointed to a dearth of bomb shelters in Arab towns and villages and a lack of basic emergency information in Arabic. Many Israeli Jews viewed the Arab opposition to government policy and sympathy with the Lebanese as a sign of disloyalty.\n\nIn October 2006, tensions rose when Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert invited a right-wing political party Yisrael Beiteinu, to join his coalition government. The party leader, Avigdor Lieberman, advocated an ethnicity based territory exchange, the Lieberman Plan, by transferring heavily populated Arab areas (mainly the Triangle), to Palestinian Authority control and annexing major Jewish Israeli settlement blocs in the West Bank close to the green line as part of a peace proposal. Arabs who would prefer to remain in Israel instead of becoming citizens of a Palestinian state would be able to move to Israel. All citizens of Israel, whether Jews or Arabs, would be required to pledge an oath of allegiance to retain citizenship. Those who refuse could remain in Israel as permanent residents.\n\nIn January 2007 the first non-Druze Arab minister in Israel's history, Raleb Majadele, was appointed minister without portfolio (Salah Tarif, a Druze, had been appointed a minister without portfolio in 2001). The appointment was criticized by the left, which felt it was an attempt to cover up the Labor Party's decision to sit with Yisrael Beiteinu in the government, and by the right, who saw it as a threat to Israel's status as a Jewish state.\n\nIn 2006, the official number of Arab residents in Israel – including East Jerusalem permanent residents many of whom are not citizens – was 1,413,500 people, about 20% of Israel's population. According to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics (May 2003), Muslims, including Bedouins, make up 82% of the entire Arab population in Israel, along with around 9% Druze, and 9% Christians. Projections based on 2010 data, predicted that Arab Israelis will constitute 25% of Israel's population by 2025.\n\nThe national language and mother tongue of Arab citizens, including the Druze, is Arabic and the colloquial spoken language is of the Palestinian Arabic dialect. Knowledge and command of Modern Standard Arabic varies.\n\nTraditionally settled communities of Muslim Arabs comprise about 70% of the Arab population in Israel. In 2010, the average number of children per mother was 3.84, dropping from 3.97 in 2008. The Muslim population is mostly young: 42% of Muslims are under the age of 15. The median age of Muslim Israelis is 18, while the median age of Jewish Israelis is 30. The percentage of people over 65 is less than 3% for Muslims, compared with 12% for the Jewish population.\n\nAccording to the Foreign Affairs Minister of Israel, 110,000 Bedouins live in the Negev, 50,000 in the Galilee, and 10,000 in the central region of Israel. Prior to the establishment of Israel in 1948, there were an estimated 65,000–90,000 Bedouin living in the Negev. The 11,000 who remained were relocated by the Israeli government in the 1950s and 1960s to an area in the northeastern Negev comprising 10% of the Negev desert. The Israeli government built seven development towns for the Bedouin between 1979 and 1982. Around half the Bedouin population live in these towns, the largest of which is the city of Rahat, others being Ar'arat an-Naqab (Ar'ara BaNegev), Bir Hadaj, Hura, Kuseife, Lakiya, Shaqib al-Salam (Segev Shalom) and Tel as-Sabi (Tel Sheva).\n\nApproximately 40–50% of Bedouin citizens of Israel live in 39–45 unrecognized villages that are not connected to the electrical grid and water mains.\n\nMost Israeli Druze live in the north of the country and are recognised as a separate community to Arabs. The Galilean Druze and Druze of the Haifa region received Israeli citizenship automatically in 1948. After Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria in 1967 and annexed it to Israel in 1981, the Druze of the Golan Heights were offered full Israeli citizenship under the Golan Heights Law. Most declined Israeli citizenship and retain Syrian citizenship and identity and are treated as permanent residents of Israel.\n\nDuring the British Mandate for Palestine, the Druze did not embrace the rising Arab nationalism of the time or participate in violent confrontations. In 1948, many Druze volunteered for the Israeli army and no Druze villages were destroyed or permanently abandoned. Since the establishment of the state, the Druze have demonstrated solidarity with Israel and distanced themselves from Arab and Islamic radicalism. Druze citizens serve in the Israel Defense Forces.\n\nFrom 1957, the Israeli government formally recognized the Druze as a separate religious community, and are defined as a distinct ethnic group in the Israeli Ministry of Interior's census registration. While the Israeli education system is basically divided into Hebrew and Arabic speaking schools, the Druze have autonomy within the Arabic speaking branch.\n\nIn a survey conducted in 2008 by Dr. Yusuf Hassan of Tel Aviv University 94% of Druze respondents identified as \"Druze-Israelis\" in the religious and national context, while a 2017 Pew Research Center poll reported that while 99% of Muslims and 96% of Christians identified as ethnically Arab, a smaller share of Druze, 71%, identified likewise. Compared to other Christians and Muslims, Druze place less emphasis on Arab identity and self-identify more as Israeli. Most do not identify as Palestinians. Druze politicians in Israel include Ayoob Kara, who represented Likud in the Knesset; Majalli Wahabi of Kadima, the Deputy Speaker of the Knesset; and Said Nafa of the Arab party Balad.\n\nChristian Arabs comprise about 9% of the Arab population in Israel. Approximately 70% reside in the north, in Jish, Eilabun, Kafr Yasif, Kafr Kanna, I'billin, Shefa-'Amr. Some Druze villages, such as Hurfeish and Maghar, have small Christian Arab populations. Nazareth has the largest Christian Arab population. The near entirety of Haifa's Arab minority is Christian as well. There are 117,000 or more Christian Arabs in Israel (and more than 35,000 non-Arab Christians). As of 2014 the Melkite Greek Catholic Church was the largest Christian community in Israel, where about 60% of Israeli Christians belonged to the Melkite Greek Catholic Church, while around 30% of Israeli Christians belonged to the Greek Orthodox Church of Jerusalem.\n\nMany Christian Arabs have been prominent in Arab political parties in Israel, and leaders have included Archbishop George Hakim, Emile Toma, Tawfik Toubi, Emile Habibi, and Azmi Bishara. Notable Christian religious figures include the Melkite Archbishops of the Galilee Elias Chacour and Boutros Mouallem, the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem Michel Sabbah, and Bishop Munib Younan of the Lutheran Church of Jordan and the Holy Land. Israeli Supreme Court judge Salim Joubran is a Christian Arab. Notable Christian figures in science and high tech include Hossam Haick who has many contributions in multidisciplinary fields such as Nanotechnology, Nanosensors and Molecular Electronics, and Johny Srouji who is Apple's senior vice president of Hardware Technologies.\n\nSince September 2014 Christian families or clans who can speak the Aramaic language are eligible to register as Arameans in Israel. This recognition comes after about seven years of activity by the Aramean Christian Foundation in Israel, which rather than sticking to an Arab identity, wishes to assimilate into an Israeli lifestyle. Aram is led by IDF Major Shadi Khalloul Risho and the Israeli Christian Recruitment Forum, headed by Father Gabriel Naddaf of the Greek-Orthodox Church and Major Ihab Shlayan. The move was condemned by the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate, which described it as an attempt to divide the Palestinian minority in Israel.\n\nChristian Arabs are one of the most educated groups in Israel. Statistically, Christian Arabs in Israel have the highest rates of educational attainment among all religious communities, according to a data by Israel Central Bureau of Statistics in 2010, 63% of Israeli Christian Arabs have had college or postgraduate education, the highest of any religious and ethno-religious group. Despite the fact that Arab Christians only represent 2% of the total Israeli population, in 2014 they accounted for 17% of the country's university students, and for 14% of its college students. There are more Christians who have attained a bachelor's degree or higher academic degrees than the median Israeli population. The rate of students studying in the field of medicine was higher among Christian Arab students than that of all other sectors. and the percentage of Arab Christian women who are receiving higher education is also higher than that of other groups.\n\nThe Israel Central Bureau of Statistics noted that when taking into account the data recorded over the years, Israeli Christian Arabs fared the best in terms of education in comparison to any other group receiving an education in Israel. In 2012 Christian Arabs had the highest rates of success at matriculation examinations, namely 69%, both in comparison to Muslim and Druze Israelis (50% and 64% respectively), and to the students from the different branches of the Jewish education system considered as one group (61%).\n\nIn terms of their socio-economic situation, Arab Christians are more similar to the Jewish population than to the Muslim Arab population. They have the lowest incidence of poverty and the lowest percentage of unemployment, at 4.9%, compared to 6.5% among Jewish men and women. They have also the highest median household income among Arab citizens of Israel and second highest median household income among the Israeli ethno-religious groups. Also Arab Christians have a high presentation in science and in the white collar professions. In Israel Arab Christians are portrayed as a hard working and upper middle class educated ethno-religious minority.\n\nAccording to the study \"Are Christian Arabs the New Israeli Jews? Reflections on the Educational Level of Arab Christians in Israel\" by Hanna David from the University of Tel Aviv, one of the factors why Israeli Arab Christians are the most educated segment of Israel's population is the high level of the Christian educational institutions. Christian schools in Israel are among the best schools in the country, and while those schools represent only 4% of the Arab schooling sector, about 34% of Arab university students come from Christian schools, and about 87% of the Israeli Arabs in the high tech sector have been educated in Christian schools. A 2011 Maariv article described the Christian Arab sector as \"the most successful in the education system\", an opinion supported by the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics and others who point out that Christian Arabs fared best in terms of education in comparison to any other group receiving an education in Israel.\n\nThe relationship of Arab citizens to the State of Israel is often fraught with tension and can be regarded in the context of relations between minority populations and state authorities elsewhere in the world. Arab citizens consider themselves to be an indigenous people. The tension between their Palestinian Arab national identity and their identity as citizens of Israel was famously described by an Arab public figure as: \"My state is at war with my nation\".\n\nBetween 1948 and 1967, very few Arab citizens of Israel identified openly as \"Palestinian\", and an \"Israeli-Arab\" identity, the preferred phrase of the Israeli establishment and public, was predominant. Public expressions of Palestinian identity, such as displays of the Palestinian flag or the singing and reciting of nationalist songs or poetry were illegal until recently. With the end of military administrative rule in 1966 and following the 1967 war, national consciousness and its expression among Israel's Arab citizens spread. A majority then self-identified as Palestinian, preferring this descriptor to Israeli Arab in numerous surveys over the years. In a 2017 telephone poll, 40% of Arab citizens of Israel identified as \"Arab in Israel / Arab citizen of Israel\", 15% identified as \"Palestinian\", 8.9% as \"Palestinian in Israel / Palestinian citizen of Israel\", and 8.7% as \"Arab\"; the focus groups associated with the poll provided a different outcome, in which \"there was consensus that Palestinian identity occupies a central place in their consciousness\".\n\nArabs living in East Jerusalem, occupied and administered by Israel since the Six-Day War of 1967, are a special case. Although they hold Israeli ID cards, most are permanent residents since few accepted Israel's offer of citizenship after the war's end, refusing to recognize its sovereignty, and most maintain close ties with the West Bank. As permanent residents, they are eligible to vote in Jerusalem's municipal elections, although only a small percentage takes advantage of this right.\n\nThe remaining Druze population of the Golan Heights, occupied and administered by Israel in 1967, are considered permanent residents under the Golan Heights Law of 1981. Few have accepted full Israeli citizenship and the vast majority consider themselves citizens of Syria.\n\nIn 2006, the official number of Arab residents in Israel was 1,413,500 people, about 20% of Israel's population. This figure includes 209,000 Arabs (14% of the Israeli Arab population) in East Jerusalem, also counted in the Palestinian statistics, although 98% of East Jerusalem Palestinians have either Israeli residency or Israeli citizenship. In 2012, the official number of Arab residents in Israel increased from 1,413,500 people (in 2006) to 1,617,000 or about 21% of Israeli population. The Arab population in 2013 was estimated at 1,658,000, representing 21% of the country's population.\nIn Israel's Northern District Arab citizens of Israel form a majority of the population (52%) and about 50% of the Arab population lives in 114 different localities throughout Israel. In total there are 122 primarily if not entirely Arab localities in Israel, 89 of them having populations over two thousand. The seven townships as well as the Abu Basma Regional Council that have been constructed by the government for the Bedouin population of the Negev, are the only Arab localities to have been established since 1948, with the aim of relocating the Arab Bedouin citizens (\"see preceding section on Bedouin\").\n\n46% of the country's Arabs (622,400 people) live in predominantly Arab communities in the north. In Nazareth was the largest Arab city, with a population of , roughly 40,000 of whom are Muslim. Shefa-'Amr has a population of approximately and the city is mixed with sizable populations of Muslims, Christians, and Druze.\n\nJerusalem, a mixed city, has the largest overall Arab population. Jerusalem housed 209,000 Arabs in 2000 and they make up some 33% of the city's residents and together with the local council of Abu Ghosh, some 19% of the country's entire Arab population.\n\n14% of Arab citizens live in the Haifa District predominantly in the Wadi Ara region. Here is the largest Muslim city, Umm al-Fahm, with a population of . Baqa-Jatt is the second largest Arab population center in the district. The city of Haifa has an Arab population of 10%, much of it in the Wadi Nisnas, Abbas and Halissa neighborhoods.\n\n10% of the country's Arab population resides in the Central District of Israel, primarily the cities of Tayibe, Tira, and Qalansawe as well as the mixed cities of Lod and Ramla which have mainly Jewish populations.\n\nOf the remaining 11%, 10% live in Bedouin communities in the northwestern Negev. The Bedouin city of Rahat is the only Arab city in the Southern District and it is the third largest Arab city in Israel.\n\nThe remaining 1% of the country's Arab population lives in cities that are almost entirely Jewish, such as Nazareth Illit with an Arab population of 22% and Tel Aviv-Yafo, 4%.\n\nIn February 2008, the government announced that the first new Arab city would be constructed in Israel. According to Haaretz, \"[s]ince the establishment of the State of Israel, not a single new Arab settlement has been established, with the exception of permanent housing projects for Bedouins in the Negev\".\n\nArabs make up the majority of the population of the \"heart of the Galilee\" and of the areas along the Green Line including the Wadi Ara region. Bedouin Arabs make up the majority of the northeastern section of the Negev.\n\nIn the northern part of Israel the percentage of Jewish population is declining. The increasing population of Arabs within Israel, and the majority status they hold in two major geographic regions – the Galilee and the Triangle – has become a growing point of open political contention in recent years. Dr. Wahid Abd Al-Magid, the editor of \"Al-Ahram Weekly's\" \"Arab Strategic Report\", predicts that: \"The Arabs of 1948 (i.e. Arabs who stayed within the bounds of Israel and accepted citizenship) may become a majority in Israel in 2035, and they will certainly be the majority in 2048.\" Among Arabs, Muslims have the highest birth rate, followed by Druze, and then Christians.\nThe phrase \"demographic threat\" (or \"demographic bomb\") is used within the Israeli political sphere to describe the growth of Israel's Arab citizenry as constituting a threat to its maintenance of its status as a Jewish state with a Jewish demographic majority.\n\nIsraeli historian Benny Morris stated in 2004 that, while he strongly opposes expulsion of Israeli Arabs, in case of an \"apocalyptic\" scenario where Israel comes under total attack with non-conventional weapons and comes under existential threat, an expulsion might be the only option. He compared the Israeli Arabs to a \"time bomb\" and \"a potential fifth column\" in both demographic and security terms and said they are liable to undermine the state in time of war.\n\nSeveral politicians have viewed the Arabs in Israel as a security and demographic threat.\n\nThe phrase \"demographic bomb\" was famously used by Benjamin Netanyahu in 2003 when he noted that, if the percentage of Arab citizens rises above its current level of about 20 percent, Israel will not be able to maintain a Jewish demographic majority. Netanyahu's comments were criticized as racist by Arab Knesset members and a range of civil rights and human rights organizations, such as the Association for Civil Rights in Israel. Even earlier allusions to the \"demographic threat\" can be found in an internal Israeli government document drafted in 1976 known as the Koenig Memorandum, which laid out a plan for reducing the number and influence of Arab citizens of Israel in the Galilee region.\n\nIn 2003, the Israeli daily \"Ma'ariv\" published an article entitled \"Special Report: Polygamy is a Security Threat\", detailing a report put forth by the Director of the Population Administration at the time, Herzl Gedj; the report described polygamy in the Bedouin sector a \"security threat\" and advocated means of reducing the birth rate in the Arab sector. The Population Administration is a department of the Demographic Council, whose purpose, according to the Israeli Central Bureau of Statistics, is: \"...to increase the Jewish birthrate by encouraging women to have more children using government grants, housing benefits, and other incentives\". In 2008 the minister of the interior appointed Yaakov Ganot as new head of the Population Administration, which according to \"Haaretz\" is \"probably the most important appointment an interior minister can make\".\n\nA January 2006 study rejects the \"demographic time bomb\" threat based on statistical data that shows Jewish births have increased while Arab births have begun to drop. The study noted shortcomings in earlier demographic predictions (for example, in the 1960s, predictions suggested that Arabs would be the majority in 1990). The study also demonstrated that Christian Arab and Druze birth rates were actually below those of Jewish birth rates in Israel. The study used data from a Gallup poll to demonstrate that the desired family size for Arabs in Israel and Jewish Israelis were the same. The study's population forecast for 2025 predicted that Arabs would comprise only 25% of the Israeli population. Nevertheless, the Bedouin population, with its high birth rates, continues to be perceived as a threat to a Jewish demographic majority in the south, and a number of development plans, such as the Blueprint Negev, address this concern.\n\nA study showed that in 2010, Jewish birthrates rose by 31% and 19,000 diaspora Jews immigrated to Israel, while the Arab birthrate fell by 2%.\n\nSome Israeli politicians advocate land-swap proposals in order to assure a continued Jewish majority within Israel. A specific proposal is that Israel transfer sovereignty of part of the Arab-populated Wadi Ara area (west of the Green Line) to a future Palestinian state, in return for formal sovereignty over the major Jewish settlement \"blocks\" that lie inside the West Bank east of the Green Line.\n\nAvigdor Lieberman of Yisrael Beiteinu, the fourth largest faction in the 17th Knesset, is one of the foremost advocates of the transfer of large Arab towns located just inside Israel near the border with the West Bank (e.g. Tayibe, Umm al-Fahm, Baqa al-Gharbiyye), to the jurisdiction of the Palestinian National Authority in exchange for Israeli settlements located inside the West Bank.\n\nIn October 2006, Yisrael Beiteinu formally joined in the ruling government's parliamentary coalition, headed by Kadima. After the Israeli Cabinet confirmed Avigdor Lieberman's appointment to the position of \"minister for strategic threats\", Labour Party representative and science, sport and culture minister Ophir Pines-Paz resigned his post. In his resignation letter to Ehud Olmert, Pines-Paz wrote: \"I couldn't sit in a government with a minister who preaches racism.\"\n\nThe Lieberman Plan caused a stir among Arab citizens of Israel. Various polls show that Arabs in Israel do not wish to move to the West Bank or Gaza if a Palestinian state is created there. In a survey conducted by Kul Al-Arab among 1,000 residents of Um Al-Fahm, 83 percent of respondents opposed the idea of transferring their city to Palestinian jurisdiction, while 11 percent supported the proposal and 6 percent did not express their position.\n\nOf those opposed to the idea, 54% said that they were against becoming part of a Palestinian state because they wanted to continue living under a democratic regime and enjoying a good standard of living. Of these opponents, 18% said that they were satisfied with their present situation, that they were born in Israel and that they were not interested in moving to any other state. Another 14% of this same group said that they were not prepared to make sacrifices for the sake of the creation of a Palestinian state. Another 11 percent cited no reason for their opposition.\n\nThere are three mainstream Arab parties in Israel: Hadash (a joint Arab-Jewish party with a large Arab presence), Balad, and the United Arab List, which is a coalition of several different political organizations including the Islamic Movement in Israel. In addition to these, there is Ta'al. All of these parties primarily represent Arab-Israeli and Palestinian interests, and the Islamic Movement is an Islamist organization with two factions: one that opposes Israel's existence, and another that opposes its existence as a Jewish state. Two Arab parties ran in Israel's first election in 1949, with one, the Democratic List of Nazareth, winning two seats. Until the 1960s all Arab parties in the Knesset were aligned with Mapai, the ruling party.\n\nA minority of Arabs join and vote for Zionist parties; in the 2006 elections 30% of the Arab vote went to such parties, up from 25% in 2003, though down on the 1999 (31%) and 1996 elections (33%). Left-wing parties (i.e. Labor Party and Meretz-Yachad, and previously One Nation) are the most popular parties amongst Arabs, though some Druze have also voted for right-wing parties such as Likud and Yisrael Beiteinu, as well as the centrist Kadima.\n\nArab-dominated parties typically do not join governing coalitions. However, historically these parties have formed alliances with dovish Israeli parties and promoted the formation of their governments by voting with them from the opposition. Arab parties are credited with keeping Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in power, and they have suggested they would do the same for a government led by Labor leader Isaac Herzog and peace negotiator Tzipi Livni. A 2015 \"Haaretz\" poll found that a majority of Israeli Arabs would like their parties, then running on a joint list, to join the governing coalition.\n\nPalestinian Arabs sat in the state's first parliamentary assembly; as of 2011, 13 of the 120 members of the Israeli Parliament are Arab citizens, most representing Arab political parties, and one of Israel's Supreme Court judges is a Palestinian Arab.\n\nAs of 2015, there are 17 Arab members of knesset. Along with 13 out of the 14 members of the Joint List, there will be four Arab parliamentarians representing Zionist parties, which is double their number in the previous Knesset.\n\nSome Arab Members of the Knesset, past and present, are under police investigation for their visits to countries designated as enemy countries by Israeli law. This law was amended following MK Mohammad Barakeh's trip to Syria in 2001, such that MKs must explicitly request permission to visit these countries from the Minister of the Interior. In August 2006, Balad MKs Azmi Bishara, Jamal Zahalka, and Wasil Taha visited Syria without requesting nor receiving such permission, and a criminal investigation of their actions was launched. Former Arab Member of Knesset Mohammed Miari was questioned 18 September 2006 by police on suspicion of having entered a designated enemy country without official permission. He was questioned \"under caution\" for 2.5 hours in the Petah Tikva station about his recent visit to Syria. Another former Arab Member of Knesset, Muhammad Kanaan, was also summoned for police questioning regarding the same trip. In 2010, six Arab MKs visited Libya, an openly anti-Zionist Arab state, and met with Muammar al-Gaddafi and various senior government officials. Gaddafi urged them to seek a one-state solution, and for Arabs to \"multiply\" in order to counter any \"plots\" to expel them.\n\nAccording to a study commissioned by the Arab Association of Human Rights entitled \"Silencing Dissent,\" over the past three years, eight of nine of these Arab Knesset members have been beaten by Israeli forces during demonstrations. Most recently according to the report, legislation has been passed, including three election laws [e.g., banning political parties], and two Knesset related laws aimed to \"significantly curb the minority [Arab population] right to choose a public representative and for those representatives to develop independent political platforms and carry out their duties\".\n\nIn the public employment sphere, by the end of 2002, 6% of 56,362 Israeli civil servants were Arab. In January 2004, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared that every state-run company must have at least one Arab citizen of Israel on its board of directors.\n\nCabinet:\nNawaf Massalha, an Arab Muslim, has served in various junior ministerial roles, including Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, since 1999. Until 2001, no Arab had been included in a Prime Minister's cabinet. In 2001, this changed, when Salah Tarif, a Druze Arab citizen of Israel, was appointed a member of Sharon's cabinet without a portfolio. Tarif was later ejected after being convicted of corruption. In 2007 the first non-Druze Arab minister in Israel's history, Raleb Majadele, was appointed a minister without portfolio, and a month later appointed minister for Science, Culture and Sport.\nThe appointment of Majadele was criticized by far-right Israelis, some of whom are also within the Cabinet, but this drew condemnation across the mainstream Israeli political spectrum. Meanwhile, Arab lawmakers called the appointment an attempt to \"whitewash Israel's discriminatory policies against its Arab minority\".\n\nKnesset:\nArab citizens of Israel have been elected to every Knesset, and currently hold 17 of its 120 seats. The first female Arab MP was Hussniya Jabara, a Muslim Arab from central Israel, who was elected in 1999.\n\nSupreme Court:\nAbdel Rahman Zuabi, a Muslim from northern Israel, was the first Arab on the Israeli Supreme Court, serving a 9-month term in 1999. In 2004, Salim Joubran, a Christian Arab from Haifa descended from Lebanese Maronites, became the first Arab to hold a permanent appointment on the Court. Joubran's expertise lies in the field of criminal law. George Karra, a Christian Arab from Jaffa has served as a Tel Aviv District Court judge since 2000. He was the presiding judge in the trial of Moshe Katsav. In 2011, he was nominated as a candidate for the Israeli Supreme Court.\n\nForeign Service:\nAli Yahya, an Arab Muslim, became the first Arab ambassador for Israel in 1995 when he was appointed ambassador to Finland. He served until 1999, and in 2006 was appointed ambassador to Greece. Other Arab ambassadors include Walid Mansour, a Druze, appointed ambassador to Vietnam in 1999, and Reda Mansour, also a Druze, a former ambassador to Ecuador. Mohammed Masarwa, an Arab Muslim, was Consul-General in Atlanta. In 2006, Ishmael Khaldi was appointed Israeli consul in San Francisco, becoming the first Bedouin consul of the State of Israel.\n\nIsrael Defense Forces:\nArab Generals in the IDF include Major General Hussain Fares, commander of Israel's border police, and Major General Yosef Mishlav, head of the Home Front Command and current Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories. Both are members of the Druze community. Other high-ranking officers in the IDF include Lieutenant Colonel Amos Yarkoni (born Abd el-Majid Hidr/ عبد الماجد حيدر) from the Bedouin community, a legendary officer in the Israel Defense Forces and one of six Israeli Arabs to have received the IDF's third highest decoration, the Medal of Distinguished Service.\n\nIsraeli Police:\nIn 2011, Jamal Hakroush became the first Muslim Arab deputy Inspector-General in the Israeli Police. He has previously served as district commander of two districts.\n\nJewish National Fund:\nIn 2007, Ra'adi Sfori became the first Arab citizen of Israel to be elected as a JNF director, over a petition against his appointment. The court upheld the JNF's appointment, explaining, \"As this is one director among a large number, there is no chance he will have the opportunity to cancel the organization's goals.\"\n\nAbnaa el-Balad is a political movement that grew out of organizing by Arab university youth, beginning in 1969. It is not affiliated with the Arab Knesset party Balad. While participating in municipal elections, Abnaa al-Balad firmly reject any participation in the Israeli Knesset. Political demands include \"the return of all Palestinian refugees to their homes and lands, [an] end [to] the Israeli occupation and Zionist apartheid and the establishment [of] a democratic secular state in Palestine as the ultimate solution to the Arab-Zionist conflict.\"\n\nThe High Follow-Up Committee for Arab Citizens of Israel is an extra-parliamentary umbrella organization that represents Arab citizens of Israel at the national level. It is \"the top representative body deliberating matters of general concern to the entire Arab community and making binding decisions.\" While it enjoys \"de facto\" recognition from the State of Israel, it lacks official or \"de jure\" recognition from the state for its activities in this capacity.\n\nTa'ayush is \"a grassroots movement of Arabs and Jews working to break down the walls of racism and segregation by constructing a true Arab-Jewish partnership.\"\n\nThe Regional Council of Unrecognized Villages is a body of unofficial representatives of the unrecognized villages throughout the Negev region in the south.\n\nAmendment 9 to the 'Basic Law: The Knesset and the Law of Political Parties' states that a political party \"may not participate in the elections if there is in its goals or actions a denial of the existence of the State of Israel as the state of the Jewish people, a denial of the democratic nature of the state, or incitement to racism.\" A number of attempts were done to disqualify Arab parties based on this rule, however as of 2010, all such attempts were either rejected by the Israeli Central Elections Committee or overturned by the Israeli Supreme Court.\n\nAn Israeli Central Elections Committee ruling which allowed the Progressive List for Peace to run for the Knesset in 1988 was challenged based on this amendment, but the committee's decision was upheld by the Israeli Supreme Court, which ruled that the PLP's platform calling for Israel to become \"a state of all its citizens\" does not violate the ideology of Israel as the State of the Jewish people, and thus section 7(a) does not apply.\n\nIn December 2002, Azmi Bishara and his party, Balad, which calls for Israel to become \"a state of all its citizens,\" were banned by the Israeli Central Elections Committee, for refusing to recognize Israel as a \"Jewish and democratic state\" and making statements promoting armed struggle against it. The Supreme Court overruled the decision in January 2003. Bishara served as a Knesset member from 1996 to 2007. He reportedly told an audience in Lebanon in December 2005 that Arab citizens \"[...] are like all Arabs, only with Israeli citizenship forced upon them [...] Return Palestine to us and take your democracy with you. We Arabs are not interested in it\". Bishara resigned his Knesset office and left the country in 2007 amidst news that criminal charges were being laid against him. He has been charged with espionage and money laundering, stemming from allegations that he gave Hizbullah information on strategic targets that should be attacked with rockets during the 2006 Lebanon War, in exchange for large amounts of money.\n\nIn 2009, United Arab List – Ta'al and Balad were disqualified, on grounds that they do not recognize the State of Israel and call for armed conflict against it. The Supreme Court of Israel overturned the Committee's decision by a majority of eight to one.\n\nIsrael's Declaration of Independence called for the establishment of a Jewish state with equality of social and political rights, irrespective of religion, race, or sex.\n\nThe rights of citizens are guaranteed by a set of basic laws (Israel does not have a written constitution). Although this set of laws does not explicitly include the term \"right to equality\", the Israeli Supreme Court has consistently interpreted \"Basic Law: Human Dignity and Liberty\" and \"Basic Law: Freedom of Occupation (1994)\" as guaranteeing equal rights for all Israeli citizens.\n\nThe Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs states that \"Arab Israelis are citizens of Israel with equal rights\" and states that \"The only legal distinction between Arab and Jewish citizens is not one of rights, but rather of civic duty. Since Israel's establishment, Arab citizens have been exempted from compulsory service in the Israel Defense Forces (IDF).\" Druze and Circassians are drafted into the Israeli army, while other Arabs may serve voluntarily; however, only a very small number of Arabs choose to volunteer for the Israeli army).\n\nMany Arab citizens feel that the state, as well as society at large, not only actively limits them to second-class citizenship, but treats them as enemies, affecting their perception of the \"de jure\" versus \"de facto\" quality of their citizenship. The joint document \"The Future Vision of the Palestinian Arabs in Israel\", asserts: \"Defining the Israeli State as a Jewish State and exploiting democracy in the service of its Jewishness excludes us, and creates tension between us and the nature and essence of the State.\" The document explains that by definition the \"Jewish State\" concept is based on ethnically preferential treatment towards Jews enshrined in immigration (the Law of Return) and land policy (the Jewish National Fund), and calls for the establishment of minority rights protections enforced by an independent anti-discrimination commission.\n\nA 2004 report by Mossawa, an advocacy center for Palestinian-Arab citizens of Israel, states that since the events of October 2000, 16 Arabs had been killed by security forces, bringing the total to 29 victims of \"institutional violence\" in four years. Ahmed Sa'adi, in his article on \"The Concept of Protest and its Representation by the Or Commission\", states that since 1948 the only protestors to be killed by the police have been Arabs.\n\nYousef Munayyer, an Israeli citizen and the executive director of The Jerusalem Fund, wrote that Palestinians only have varying degrees of limited rights in Israel. He states that although Palestinians make up about 20% of Israel's population, less than 7% of the budget is allocated to Palestinian citizens. He describes the 1.5 million Arab citizens of Israel as second-class citizens while four million more are not citizens at all. He states that a Jew from any country can move to Israel but a Palestinian refugee, with a valid claim to property in Israel, cannot. Munayyer also described the difficulties he and his wife faced when visiting the country.\n\nArabic was until July 2018 one of Israel's official languages. The use of Arabic increased significantly following Supreme Court rulings in the 1990s. defines Hebrew as the official language of the State and gives the Arabic language a special status.\n\nGovernment ministries publish all material intended for the public in Hebrew, with selected material translated into Arabic, English, Russian, and other languages spoken in Israel. There are laws that secure the Arab population's right to receive information in Arabic. Some examples include a portion of the public television channels' productions must be in Arabic or translated into Arabic, safety regulations in working places must be published in Arabic if a significant number of the workers are Arabs, information about medicines or dangerous chemicals must be provided in Arabic, and information regarding elections must be provided in Arabic. The country's laws are published in Hebrew, and eventually English and Arabic translations are published. Publishing the law in Hebrew in the official gazette (\"Reshumot\") is enough to make it valid. Unavailability of an Arabic translation can be regarded as a legal defense only if the defendant proves he could not understand the meaning of the law in any conceivable way. Following appeals to the Israeli Supreme Court, the use of Arabic on street signs and labels increased dramatically. In response to one of the appeals presented by Arab Israeli organizations, the Supreme Court ruled that although second to Hebrew, Arabic is an official language of the State of Israel, and should be used extensively. Today most highway signage is trilingual (Hebrew, Arabic, and English).\n\nMany Arab villages lack street signs of any kind and the Hebrew name is often used. The state's schools in Arab communities teach in Arabic according to a specially adapted curriculum. This curriculum includes mandatory lessons of Hebrew as foreign language from the 3rd grade onwards. Arabic is taught in Hebrew-speaking schools, but only the basic level is mandatory. In the summer of 2008, there was an unsuccessful attempt of right-wing lawmakers to strip Arabic of its status alongside Hebrew as an official language of the state.\n\nSome Arab politicians have requested a reevaluation of the Israeli flag and national anthem, arguing that the Star of David at the flag's center is an exclusively Jewish symbol, and Hatikvah does not represent Arab citizens, since it speaks of the Jewish people's desire to return to their homeland. The High Follow-Up Committee for Arab Citizens of Israel and the National Committee for the Heads of the Arab Local Authorities in Israel stated in 2006,\n\nMichael Oren, the former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations, has argued that since the Seal of Solomon (Star of David) is also considered to be an Islamic symbol, Arab citizens of Israel should be able to feel the same sense of loyalty to the flag as Jewish citizens do.\n\nIn Israel, Independence Day takes place on 5 Iyar according to the Hebrew calendar, which means it falls on different dates every year under the Gregorian calendar. Arab citizens of Israel generally mark al-Nakba both on this day, and on 15 May, as do other Palestinians. Druze soldiers, however, were present at Israel's first Independence Day Parade in 1949, and there have since been parades for Druze and Circassians, as well as special events for Bedouins, on Independence Day.\n\nIn January 2008, the mayor of Shefa-'Amr, Ursan Yassin, met with officials of the Israeli state committee on the celebrations for the 60th anniversary of independence and announced that Shefa-'Amr intended to take part in the celebrations. He stated: \"This is our country and we completely disapprove of the statements made by the Higher Monitoring Committee. I want to hold a central ceremony in Shefa-'Amr, raise all the flags and have a huge feast. The 40,000 residents of Shefa-'Amr feel that they are a part of the State of Israel...The desire to participate in the festivities is shared by most of the residents. We will not raise our children to hate the country. This is our country and we want to live in coexistence with its Jewish residents.\"\n\nOn 31 July 2003, Israel enacted the Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law (Temporary Provision), 5763-2003, a one-year amendment to Israel's Citizenship Law denying citizenship and Israeli residence to Palestinians who reside in the West Bank or Gaza Strip and who marry Israelis; the rule has been waived for any Palestinian \"who identifies with the State of Israel and its goals, when he or a member of his family has taken concrete action to advance the security, economy or any other matter important to the State\". Upon expiration the law was extended for six months in August 2004, and again for four months in February 2005. On 8 May 2005, the Israeli ministerial committee for issues of legislation once again amended the Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law, to restrict citizenship and residence in Israel only to Palestinian men over the age of 35, and Palestinian women over the age of 25.\n\nDefenders of the Citizenship and Entry Law say it is aimed at preventing terrorist attacks and preserving the \"Jewish character\" of Israel by restricting Arab immigration. The new bill was formulated in accordance with Shin Bet statistics showing that involvement in terror attacks declines with age. This newest amendment, in practice, removes restrictions from half of the Palestinian population requesting legal status through marriage in Israel. This law was upheld by a High Court decision in 2006.\n\nAlthough this law theoretically applies to all Israelis, it has disproportionately affected Arab citizens of Israel; Arabs are far more likely to have Palestinian spouses than other Israelis. Thus the law has been widely considered discriminatory and the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination has unanimously approved a resolution saying that the Israeli law violated an international human rights treaty against racism.\n\nThe Israeli Declaration of Independence stated that the State of Israel would ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants irrespective of religion, race or sex, and guaranteed freedom of religion, conscience, language, education and culture. While formally equal according to Israeli law, a number of official sources acknowledge that Arab citizens of Israel experience discrimination in many aspects of life. Israeli High Court Justice (Ret.) Theodor Or wrote in The Report by the State Commission of Inquiry into the Events of October 2000:\nThe Arab citizens of Israel live in a reality in which they experience discrimination as Arabs. This inequality has been documented in a large number of professional surveys and studies, has been confirmed in court judgments and government resolutions, and has also found expression in reports by the state comptroller and in other official documents. Although the Jewish majority's awareness of this discrimination is often quite low, it plays a central role in the sensibilities and attitudes of Arab citizens. This discrimination is widely accepted, both within the Arab sector and outside it, and by official assessments, as a chief cause of agitation.\n\nThe Or Commission report also states that activities by Islamic organizations may be using religious pretenses to further political aims. The commission describes such actions as a factor in 'inflaming' the Muslim population in Israel against the authorities, and cites the al-Sarafand mosque episode, with Muslims' attempts to restore the mosque and Jewish attempts to stop them, as an example of the 'shifting of dynamics' of the relationship between Muslims and the Israeli authorities.\n\nAccording to the 2004 U.S. State Department Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for Israel and the Occupied Territories, the Israeli government had done \"little to reduce institutional, legal, and societal discrimination against the country's Arab citizens\".\n\n\"The 2004 U.S. State Department Country Reports on Human Rights Practices\" notes that:\n\n\"The 2007 U.S. State Department Country Reports on Human Rights Practices\" notes that:\n\nHuman Rights Watch has charged that cuts in veteran benefits and child allowances based on parents' military service discriminate against Arab children: \"The cuts will also affect the children of Jewish ultra-orthodox parents who do not serve in the military, but they are eligible for extra subsidies, including educational supplements, not available to Palestinian Arab children.\"\n\nAccording to \"the Guardian\", in 2006 just 5% of civil servants were Arabs, many of them hired to deal with other Arabs, despite the fact that Arab citizens of Israel comprise 20% of the population.\n\nAlthough the Bedouin infant mortality rate is still the highest in Israel, and one of the highest in the developed world, \"The Guardian\" reports that in the 2002 budget, Israel's health ministry allocated Arab communities less than 1% of its budget for healthcare facility development.\n\nIn March 2010, a report released by several Israeli civil rights groups stated that the current Knesset was \"the most racist in Israeli history\" with 21 bills proposed in 2008 and 2009 that would discriminate against the country's Arab minority.\n\nA preliminary report commissioned by Israel's Courts Administration and the Israel Bar Association found in 2011 that Israeli Arabs are more likely than Israeli Jews to be convicted of crimes after being charged, more likely to be given custodial sentences, and were given longer sentences. It did not account for \"mitigating or aggravating circumstances, prior criminal record and the convict's gender\".\n\nThe Jewish National Fund is a private organization established in 1901 to buy and develop land in the Land of Israel for Jewish settlement; land purchases were funded by donations from world Jewry exclusively for that purpose. The JNF currently owns 13% of land in Israel, while 80% is owned by the government, and the rest, around 7%, is evenly divided between private Arab and Jewish owners. Thus, the Israel Land Administration (ILA) administers 94% of the land in Israel (Government Press Office, Israel, 22 May 1997). A significant portion of JNF lands were originally properties left behind by Palestinian \"absentees\" and as a result the legitimacy of some JNF land ownership has been a matter of dispute. The JNF purchased these lands from the State of Israel between 1949 and 1953, after the state took control of them according to the Absentee Properties Law. While the JNF charter specifies the land is for the use of the Jewish People, land has been leased to Bedouin herders. Nevertheless, JNF land policy has been criticized as discrimination. When the ILA leased JNF land to Arabs, it took control of the land in question and compensated the JNF with an equivalent amount of land in areas not designated for development (generally in the Galilee and the Negev), thus ensuring that the total amount of land owned by the JNF remains the same. This was a complicated and controversial mechanism, and in 2004 use of it was suspended. After Supreme Court discussions and a directive by the Attorney General instructing the ILA to lease JNF land to Arabs and Jews alike, in September 2007 the JNF suggested reinstating the land-exchange mechanism.\n\nWhile the JNF and the ILA view an exchange of lands as a long-term solution, opponents say that such maneuvers privatize municipal lands and preserve a situation in which significant lands in Israel are not available for use by all of its citizens. As of 2007, the High Court delayed ruling on JNF policy regarding leasing lands to non-Jews, and changes to the ILA-JNF relationship were up in the air. Adalah and other organizations furthermore express concern that proposed severance of the relation between the ILA and JNF, as suggested by Ami Ayalon, would leave the JNF free to retain the same proportion of lands for Jewish uses as it seeks to settle hundreds of thousands of Jews in areas with a tenuous Jewish demographic majority (in particular, 100,000 Jews in existing Galilee communities and 250,000 Jews in new Negev communities via the Blueprint Negev).\n\nThe Israel Land Administration, which administers 93% of the land in Israel (including the land owned by the Jewish National Fund), refuses to lease land to non-Jewish foreign nationals, who include Palestinian residents of Jerusalem who have identity cards but are not citizens of Israel. When ILA land is \"bought\" in Israel it is actually leased to the \"owner\" for a period of 49 years. According to article 19 of the ILA lease, foreign nationals are excluded from leasing ILA land, and in practice foreigners may just show that they qualify as Jewish under the Law of Return.\n\nIsraeli law also discriminates between Jewish and Arab residents of Jerusalem regarding rights to recover property owned before the dislocations created by the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The 1950 Absentees Property Law said that any property within post-war Israel which was owned by an Arab who had left the country between 29 November 1947 and 19 May 1948, or by a Palestinian who had merely been abroad or in area of Palestine held by hostile forces up to 1 September 1948, lost all rights to that property. Palestinians who fled or were expelled from their homes by Jewish or Israeli forces, before and during the 1948 Arab–Israeli war, but remained within the borders of what would become Israel, that is, those currently known as Arab citizens of Israel, are deemed present absentees by the legislation. Present absentees are regarded as absent by the Israeli government because they left their homes, even if they did not intend to leave them for more than a few days, and even if they did so involuntarily.\n\nFollowing the 1967 Six-Day War in which Israel occupied the West Bank, from where it annexed East Jerusalem, Israel then passed in 1970 the \"Law and Administration Arrangements Law\" allowing for Jews who had lost property in East Jerusalem and the West Bank during the 1948 war to reclaim it. Palestinian residents of Jerusalem (absentees) in the same positions, and Arab Israelis (present absentees), who owned property in West Jerusalem or other areas within the state of Israel, and lost it as a result of the 1948 war, cannot recover their properties. Israeli legislation, therefore, allows Jews to recover their land, but not Arabs.\n\nIn the early 2000s, several community settlements in the Negev and the Galilee were accused of barring Arab applicants from moving in. In 2010, the Knesset passed legislation that allowed admissions committees to function in smaller communities in the Galilee and the Negev, while explicitly forbidding committees to bar applicants based on the basis of race, religion, sex, ethnicity, disability, personal status, age, parenthood, sexual orientation, country of origin, political views, or political affiliation. Critics, however, say the law gives the privately run admissions committees a wide latitude over public lands, and believe it will worsen discrimination against the Arab minority.\n\nWhile groups are not separated by official policy, Israel has a number of different sectors within the society that maintain their strong cultural, religious, ideological, and/or ethnic identity. The Israeli foreign ministry maintains that in spite of the existing social cleavages and economic disparities, the political systems and the courts represent strict legal and civic equality. The Israeli foreign ministry describes the country as: \"Not a meltingpot society, but rather more of a mosaic made up of different population groups coexisting in the framework of a democratic state\".\n\nAccording to Ishmael Khaldi, an Arab citizen of Israel and the nation's first high-ranking Muslim in the Israeli foreign service, while Israeli society is far from perfect, minorities in Israel fare far better than any other country in the Middle East. He wrote:\n\nI am a proud Israeli – along with many other non-Jewish Israelis such as Druze, Bahai, Bedouin, Christians and Muslims, who live in one of the most culturally diversified societies and the only true democracy in the Middle East. Like America, Israeli society is far from perfect, but let us deal honestly. By any yardstick you choose – educational opportunity, economic development, women and gay's rights, freedom of speech and assembly, legislative representation – Israel's minorities fare far better than any other country in the Middle East.\n\nIn 2009, the Israeli Arab Journalist Khaled Abu Toameh, writing for the Gatestone Institute, declared to a Muslim audience during the Durban Review Conference, that, while there are serious problems facing the Arab sector in Israel: \"Israel is a wonderful place to live and we are happy to be there. Israel is a free and open country. If I were given the choice, I would rather live in Israel as a second class citizen than as a first class citizen in Cairo, Gaza, Amman or Ramallah.\"\n\nIntermarriage is prohibited by the Jewish Halakha. In the case of mixed Arab-Jewish marriages, emotions run especially high. A 2007 opinion survey found that more than half of Israeli Jews believed intermarriage was equivalent to national treason. A group of Jewish men in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Pisgat Ze'ev started patrolling the neighborhood to stop Jewish women from dating Arab men. The municipality of Petah Tikva has also announced an initiative to providing a telephone hotline for friends and family to report Jewish girls who date Arab men as well as psychologists to provide counselling. The city of Kiryat Gat launched a campaign in schools to warn Jewish girls against dating local Bedouin men.\n\nA 2015 survey found that 82% of Israeli Muslims and 88% of Israeli Christians would be uncomfortable with a child of theirs marrying a Jew. 97% of Israeli Jews would be uncomfortable if a child of theirs married a Muslim and 89% would be uncomfortable if a child of theirs married a Christian.\n\nThe Mossawa Center – an advocacy organization for Arabs in Israel – blames the Knesset of discrimination against Arabs, citing a 75% increase in discriminatory and racist bills submitted to the Knesset in the year 2009. According to the report, 11 bills deemed by the center to be \"discriminatory and racist\" were placed on the legislature's table in 2007, while 12 such bills were initiated in 2008. However, in 2009 a full 21 bills deemed discriminatory by the Mossawa Center were discussed in the Knesset.\n\nThe reports categorizes as \"racist\" proposals such as giving academic scholarships to soldiers who served in combat units, and a bill to revoke government funding from organizations acting \"against the principles of the State\". The Coalition Against Racism and the Mossawa Center said that the proposed legislation seeks to de-legitimize Israel's Arab citizens by decreasing their civil rights.\n\nInequality in the allocation of public funding for Jewish and Arab needs, and widespread employment discrimination, present significant economic hurdles for Arab citizens of Israel. On the other hand, the Minorities at Risk (MAR) group states that \"despite obvious discrimination, Israeli Arabs are relatively much better off economically than neighboring Arabs.\"\n\nThe predominant feature of the Arab community's economic development after 1949 was its transformation from a predominantly peasant farming population to a proletarian industrial workforce. It has been suggested that the economic development of the community was marked by distinct stages. The first period, until 1967, was characterised by this process of proletarianisation. From 1967 on, economic development of the population was encouraged and an Arab bourgeoisie began to develop on the margin of the Jewish bourgeoisie. From the 1980s on, the community developed its economic and, in particular, industrial potential.\n\nIn July 2006, the Government categorized all Arab communities in the country as 'class A' development areas, thus making them eligible for tax benefits. This decision aims to encourage investments in the Arab sector.\n\nRaanan Dinur, director-general of Prime Minister office, said in December 2006 that Israel had finalized plans to set up a NIS 160 million private equity fund to help develop the businesses of the country's Arab community over the next decade. According to Dinur, companies owned by Arab citizens of Israel will be eligible to apply to the fund for as much as NIS 4 million (USD 952,000), enabling as many as 80 enterprises to receive money over the next 10 years. The Israeli government will, according to Dinur, solicit bids to operate the fund from various financial institutes and private firms, which must pledge to raise at least NIS 80 million (about USD 19 million) from private investors.\n\nIn February 2007, \"The New York Times\" reported that 53 percent of the impoverished families in Israel were Arabs. Since the majority of Arabs in Israel do not serve in the army, they are ineligible for many financial benefits such as scholarships and housing loans.\n\nArab towns in Israel are reluctant to collect city taxes from their residents. Sikkuy, a prominent Arab-Jewish NGO, found that Arabs as a group have the highest home ownership in Israel: 93% compared to 70% among Jews.\n\nWhile per capita income is lower in the Arab community, these figures do not take into account age (the average age in the Arab community is lower and young people earn less), the low percentage of women who join the workforce, and the large size of Arab families.\n\nIn 2005, of the 40 towns in Israel with the highest unemployment rates, 36 were Arab towns. According to the Central Bank of Israel statistics for 2003, salary averages for Arab workers were 29% lower than for Jewish workers. Difficulties in procuring employment have been attributed to a comparatively low level of education vis-a-vis their Jewish counterparts, insufficient employment opportunities in the vicinity of their towns, discrimination by Jewish employers, and competition with foreign workers in fields, such as construction and agriculture. Arab women have a higher unemployment rate in the work force relative to both religious and secular Jewish women. While among Arab men the employment was found to be on par with Jewish men, 17% of Arab women were found to be employed. This puts the Arab employment at 68% of the Israeli average. The Druze and Christian Arabs have higher employment than Muslims.\n\nImad Telhami, founder and CEO of Babcom, a call center in the Tefen Industrial Park with 300 employees, is committed to developing career opportunities for Arab workers in Israel. Telhami, a Christian Arab, was a senior executive at the Delta Galil Industries textile plant before establishing Babcom. He hopes to employ 5,000 workers within five years: \"Israeli companies have been exporting thousands of jobs to India, Eastern Europe and other spots around the globe. I want to bring the jobs here. There are terrific engineers in the Arab sector, and the potential is huge.\n\nIn March 2010, the government approved a $216 million, five-year development plan for the Israeli Arab sector with the goal of increasing job accessibility, particularly for women and academics. Under this program, some 15,000 new employees will be added to the work roster by 2014.\n\nBy the 2010s, the Israeli-Arab standard of living was found to be improving, with the number of middle class Arabs growing. In 2017, \"Haaretz\", which termed Arabs as Israel's \"new yuppies\", reported that Arabs, especially women, were pursuing higher education in increasing numbers, and increasingly seeking white-collar jobs. According to Professor Aziz Haidar of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, in 2017 about 27% of Arabs were middle class (as opposed to 17% two decades before) and 3% were wealthy, and although most Arabs were still in lower-income brackets, the Arab middle class is expanding dramatically.\n\nThe most common health-related causes of death are heart disease and cancer. Roughly 14% were diagnosed with diabetes in 2000. Around half of all Arab men smoke. Life expectancy has increased 27 years since 1948. Further, due largely to improvements in health care, the Arab infant mortality rate dropped from 32 deaths per thousand births in 1970 to 8.6 per thousand in 2000. However, the Bedouin infant mortality rate is still the highest in Israel, and one of the highest in the developed world.\n\nIn 2003, the infant mortality rate among Arab citizens overall was 8.4 per thousand, more than twice as high as the rate 3.6 per thousand among the Jewish population. In the 2002 budget, Israel's health ministry allocated Arab communities less than 1% of its 277 m-shekel (£35m) budget (1.6 m shekels {£200,000}) to develop healthcare facilities.\n\nDespite the fact that Arab represent 20% of the total Israeli population, in 2015 they accounted 35% of all doctors in Israel, and according to a study by the Tel Aviv University Arabs account about 35% of all pharmacists in Israel. The Arabic local council Arraba has one of the highest numbers of doctors per capita in the world.\n\nThe Israeli government regulates and finances most of the schools operating in the country, including the majority of those run by private organizations. The national school system has two major branches – a Hebrew-speaking branch and an Arabic-speaking branch. The curricula for the two systems are almost identical in mathematics, sciences, and English. It is different in humanities (history, literature, etc.). While Hebrew is taught as a second language in Arab schools since the third grade and obligatory for Arabic-speaking school's matriculation exams, only basic knowledge of Arabic is taught in Hebrew-speaking schools, usually from the 7th to the 9th grade. Arabic is not obligatory for Hebrew speaking school's matriculation exams. The schooling language split operates from preschool, up to the end of high school. At the university level, they merge into a single system, which operates mostly in Hebrew and in English.\n\nIn 2001, Human Rights Watch described government-run Arab schools as \"a world apart from government-run Jewish schools.\" The report found striking differences in virtually every aspect of the education system.\n\nIn 2005, the Follow-Up Committee for Arab Education said that the Israeli government spent an average of $192 a year on Arab students compared to $1,100 for Jewish students. The drop-out rate for Arabs was twice as high as for Jews (12% versus 6%). There was a 5,000-classroom shortage in the Arab sector.\n\nAccording to the 2004 U.S. State Department Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for Israel and the occupied territories, \"Israeli Arabs were underrepresented in the student bodies and faculties of most universities and in higher professional and business ranks. Well educated Arabs often were unable to find jobs commensurate with their level of education. According to Sikkuy, Arab citizens held approximately 60 to 70 of the country's 5,000 university faculty positions.\"\n\nArab educators have long voiced concerns over institutionalized budgetary discrimination. An August 2009 study published by the Hebrew University's School of Education claimed that Israel's Education Ministry discriminated against Arabs in its allocations of special assistance for students from low socioeconomic backgrounds and the average per-student allocation at Arab junior high schools was one-fifth the average at Jewish ones. This was due to the allocation method: funds were first divided between Arab and Jewish school systems according to the number of students in each, and then allocated to needy students; however, due to the large proportion of such students in the Arab sector, they receive less funds, per student, than Jewish students. The Ministry of Education said it was discontinuing this method in favor of a uniform index. Ministry data on the percentage of high school students who passed their matriculation exams showed that Arab towns were ranked lowest except for Fureidis, which had the third highest pass rate (76%) in Israel.\n\nNearly half of Arab students who passed their matriculation exams failed to win a place in higher education because they performed poorly in the Psychometric Entrance Test, compared to 20% of Jewish applicants. Khaled Arar, a professor at Beit Berl College, believes the psychometric test is culturally biased: \"The gap in psychometric scores between Jewish and Arab students has remained steady – at more than 100 points out of a total of 800 – since 1982. That alone should have raised suspicions.\"\n\nHowever, a 1986 research found negligible differences in construct or predictive test validity across varying cultural groups and the findings appeared to be more consistent with the psychometric than with the cultural bias position.\n\nArab citizens are not required to serve in the Israeli military, and, outside the Bedouin community, very few (around 120 a year) volunteer. Until 2000, each year between 5–10% of the Bedouin population of draft age volunteered for the Israeli army, and Bedouin were well known for their unique status as volunteers. The legendary Israeli soldier, Amos Yarkoni, first commander of the Shaked Reconnaissance Battalion in the Givati Brigade, was a Bedouin (born \"Abd el-Majid Hidr\"). Bedouin soldiers dominate the elite human tracking units that guard Israel's northern and southern border. Lieutenant Colonel Magdi Mazarib, a Bedouin, who is the Israeli army's highest-ranking tracking commander, told the AFP that he believes that \"the state of Bedouin in Israel is better, as far as the respect we get, our progress, education\". Today the number of Bedouin in the army may be less than 1%. A 2003 report stated that willingness among Bedouin to serve in the army had drastically dropped in recent years, as the Israeli government has failed to fulfill promises of equal service provision to Bedouin citizens. However, a 2009 article in Haaretz stated that volunteer recruitment for a crack elite Bedouin army unit rose threefold.\n\nIDF figures indicate that, in 2002 and 2003, Christians represented 0.1 percent of all recruits. In 2004, the number of recruits had doubled. Altogether, in 2003, the percentage of Christians serving had grown by 16 percent over the year 2000. The IDF does not publish figures on the exact number of recruits by religious denomination, and it is estimated that merely a few dozen Christians currently serve in the IDF.\n\nThe Druze are required to serve in the IDF in accordance with an agreement between their local religious leaders and the Israeli government in 1956. Opposition to the decision among the Druze populace was evident immediately, but was unsuccessful in reversing the decision. It is estimated that 85% of Druze men in Israel serve in the army, many of them becoming officers and some rising to general officer rank. In recent years, a growing minority from within the Druze community have denounced this mandatory enrollment, and refused to serve. In 2001, Said Nafa, who identifies as a Palestinian Druze and serves as the head of the Balad party's national council, founded the \"Pact of Free Druze\", an organization that aims \"to stop the conscription of the Druze and claims the community is an inalienable part of the Arabs in Israel and the Palestinian nation at large\".\n\nRather than perform army service, Israeli Arab youths have the option to volunteer to national service and receive benefits similar to those received by discharged soldiers. The volunteers are generally allocated to Arab populations, where they assist with social and community matters. there are 1,473 Arabs volunteering for national service. According to sources in the national service administration, Arab leaders are counseling youths to refrain from performing services to the state. According to a National Service official: \"For years the Arab leadership has demanded, justifiably, benefits for Arab youths similar to those received by discharged soldiers. Now, when this opportunity is available, it is precisely these leaders who reject the state's call to come and do the service, and receive these benefits.\"\n\nIn a 2004 survey by Sammy Smooha of the University of Haifa Jewish-Arab Center, 85% of Israeli Arabs stated that Israel has a right to exist as an independent state, and 70% that it has a right to exist as a democratic, Jewish state. A Truman Institute survey from 2005 found that 63% of the Arab citizens accepted the principle that Israel is the state of the Jewish people.\n\nA 2006 poll by the Arab advocacy group \"the Center Against Racism\" showed negative attitudes towards Arabs. The poll found that 63% of Jews believe Arabs are a security threat; 68% would refuse to live in the same building as an Arab; 34% believe that Arab culture is inferior to Israeli culture. Support for segregation between Jewish and Arab citizens was higher among Jews of Middle Eastern origin.\n\nIn a 2006 patriotism survey, 56% of Israeli Arabs were not proud of their citizenship and 73% were not ready to fight to defend the state, but 77% said that Israel was better than most other countries and 53% were proud of the country's welfare system. Eighty-two percent said they would rather be a citizen of Israel than of any other country in the world.\n\nAn Israeli Democracy Institute (IDI) poll in 2007 showed that 75% of \"Israeli Arabs would support a constitution that maintained Israel's status as a Jewish and democratic state while guaranteeing equal rights for minorities, while 23% said they would oppose such a definition\". Another survey that year showed that 62% of Israel's Arabs would prefer to remain Israeli citizens rather than become citizens of a future Palestinian state. A separate 2008 poll found that 77% would rather live in Israel than in any other country in the world. Another 2007 poll by Sammy Smooha found that 63% of Jewish Israelis avoided entering Arab towns and cities; 68% feared the possibility of widespread civil unrest among Israeli Arabs; 50% of Israeli Arabs justified Hezbollah's capture of IDF reservists Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev in a cross-border raid; 19% thought Israel was justified in going to war following the kidnapping; 48% justified Hezbollah rocket attacks on northern Israel during the 2006 Lebanon War; 89% of Israeli Arabs saw the IDF bombing of Lebanon as a war crime, while 44% of Israeli Arabs viewed Hezbollah's bombing of Israel as a war crime; 62% of Israeli Arabs worried that Israel could transfer their communities to the jurisdiction of a future Palestinian state, and 60% said they were concerned about a possible mass expulsion; 76% of Israeli Arabs described Zionism as racist; 68% of Israeli Arabs would be content to live in the Jewish state alongside a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip; 41% of Israeli Arab citizens denied the Holocaust ever happened.\n\nIn 2007, the \"Association for Civil Rights in Israel\" reported a \"dramatic increase\" in racism against Arab citizens, including a 26 percent rise in anti-Arab incidents. ACRI president Sami Michael said that \"Israeli society is reaching new heights of racism that damages freedom of expression and privacy\".\n\nA 2008 poll on intercommunal relations by Harvard Kennedy School found that Arabs and Jews in Israel underestimated the extent to which their communities \"liked\" one another. 68% of the Jews supported teaching Arabic in Jewish schools.\n\nA 2008 poll by the Center Against Racism found that 75% of Israeli Jews would not live in a building with Arabs; over 60% would not invite Arabs to their homes; 40% believed that Arabs should be stripped of the right to vote; over 50% agreed that the State should encourage emigration of Arab citizens to other countries; 59% considered Arab culture primitive. Asked \"What do you feel when you hear people speaking Arabic?\" 31% said hate and 50% said fear. Only 19% reported positive or neutral feelings.\n\nSurveys in 2009 found a radicalization in the positions of Israeli Arabs towards the State of Israel, with 41% of Israeli Arabs recognizing Israel's right to exist as a Jewish and democratic state (down from 66% in 2003), and 54% believing Israel has a right to exist as an independent country (down from 81% in 2003). Polls also showed that 40% of Arab citizens engaged in Holocaust denial.\n\nA 2010 poll of Israeli high school students found that 50% did not think Israeli Arabs were entitled to the same rights as Jews in Israel, and 56% thought Arabs should not be elected to the Knesset. The figures rose among religious students.\n\nA 2010 Arab Jewish Relations Survey, compiled by Prof. Sami Smoocha in collaboration with the Jewish-Arab Center at the University of Haifa shows that 71% Arab citizens of Israel said they blamed Jews for the hardships suffered by Palestinians during and after the \"Nakba\" in 1948. 38% denied the Holocaust. The percentage supporting the use of violence to advance Arab causes climbed from 6% in 1995 to 12% in 2010. 66% say they reject Israel as a Jewish and Zionist state, while 30% opposed its existence under any terms. 63% saw the Jews as \"foreign settlers who do not fit into the region and will eventually leave, when the land will return to the Palestinians\".\n\nA 2010 University of Maryland / Zogby International poll of 600 Arab Israelis compiled by Shibley Telhami found that 36 percent considered their Arab identity to be \"most important\", while 22% answered \"Palestinian\", 19% Muslim, and 12% Israeli.\n\nAmongst other things, a 2012 survey by Mada al-Carmel, the Arab Center for Applied Social Research, asked Arab students what obstacles they felt they faced in getting into university: 71% said the psychometric exam was the primary obstacle, while 40% cited \"Jewish racism\". The survey also found that 45 percent of those questioned felt no pride in Israeli achievements in whatever field, with another 13% reporting negative feelings about them.\n\nA Pew Research poll released in March 2016 showed that close to half of all Israeli Jews are in favor of \"transferring or expelling\" Israel's Arab population. 48% of Israeli Jews strongly agree or agree with the idea, and 46% strongly disagree or disagree. The in-person polling was conducted in a relatively \"calm\" from late 2014 through early 2015.\n\nBecause Israeli Arabs have Israeli citizenship, they have become increasingly targeted for recruitment as operatives by organizations that attack civilians. According to the Israeli General Security Service (Shabak), from 2001 to 2004, at the height of the Second Intifada, there were 102 cases where some Arab-Israelis were involved in some way in terrorist attacks killing hundreds of Israelis. In 2001, for example, passengers disembarking from a train in Nahariya were attacked by an Israeli Arab who killed 3 and wounded 90. In March 2007, two Israeli Arabs were convicted of manslaughter for smuggling a suicide bomber into Israel.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2004, some 150 Arabs from East Jerusalem were arrested for participation in such attacks.\n\nHezbollah has taken advantage of family and criminal ties with Israeli-Arabs who can easily cross the border into Lebanon, meet with Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, transfer weapons, drugs and money to Israel, gather intelligence and recruit operatives. This phenomenon is particularly widespread in the village of Ghajar. Arab citizens of Israel have been convicted of espionage for Hezbollah. Arab-Israeli terror cells have been established, such as a cell in Reineh whose members were arrested in February 2004.\n\nAlexander Yakobson of Jerusalem's Hebrew University has said \"There is very little actual violence between Israeli Jews and Israeli Arabs. Given the length and the intensity of the conflict, that is both surprising and encouraging.\"\n\nIn the 1956 Kafr Qasim massacre, 48 unarmed Arab citizens, returning to their village, were gunned down by an Israel Border Police platoon; a curfew had been imposed, but the villagers were not informed of it. Arab citizens have also been killed by Israeli security forces in the wake of violent demonstrations and riots, such as the March 1976 Land Day demonstrations, which left 6 dead, and the October 2000 events in which 12 Israeli Arabs and one Palestinian from Gaza were killed.\n\nIn 2005 an AWOL IDF soldier, Eden Natan-Zada opened fire in a bus in Shefa-Amr in northern Israel, murdering four Arabs and wounding twenty-two others. No group had taken credit for the terrorist attack and an official in the settler movement denounced it.\n\nArab citizens have also been victims of Palestinian, Arab, or Islamist attacks on Israel and Israelis. For example, on 12 September 1956, three Druze guards were killed in an attack on Ein Ofarim, in the Arabah region. Two Arab citizens were killed in the Ma'alot massacre carried out by the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine on 15 May 1974. In March 2002, a resident of the Arab town of Tur'an was killed in an attack on a Haifa restaurant Two months later, a woman from Jaffa was killed in a Hamas suicide bombing in Rishon LeZion On 18 June 2002: A woman from the Arab border town of Barta'a was one of 19 killed by Hamas in the Pat Junction Bus Bombing in Jerusalem In August 2002, a man from the Arab town of Mghar and woman from the Druze village of Sajur were killed in a suicide bombing at Meron junction On 21 October 2002, an Isfiya man and a Tayibe woman were among 14 killed by Islamic Jihad in the Egged bus 841 massacre. On 5 March 2003, a 13-year-old girl from the Druze town of Daliyat al-Karmel was one of 17 killed in the Haifa bus 37 suicide bombing. In May 2003: A Jisr az-Zarqa man, was killed in an Afula mall suicide bombing. On 19 March 2004, Fatah al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades gunmen killed George Khoury, a Hebrew University student. On 12 December 2004, five Arab IDF soldiers were killed in an explosion and shooting at the border with Egypt for which the Fatah Hawks claimed responsibility. On 4 October 2003, four Arab citizens of Israel were among the 21 killed by Hanadi Jaradat in the Maxim restaurant suicide bombing. In July 2006, 19 Arab citizens were killed due to Hezbollah rocket fire in the course of the 2006 Lebanon War.\n\nOn 22 August 2006, 11 Arab tourists from Israel were killed when their bus overturned in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula. Israel sent Magen David Adom, but the ambulances waited for hours at the border before receiving Egyptian permission to enter and treat the wounded, responsible for at least one of the deaths. The victims say that the driver acted as part of a planned terrorist attack, and are attempting to receive compensation from the government.\n\nMany Arab citizens of Israel share in the culture of the Palestinian people and wider Arab region of which many of them form a part. There are still some women who produce Palestinian cultural products such as Palestinian embroidery, and costume. The Palestinian folk dance, known as the dabke, continues to be taught to youth in cultural groups, and is often danced at weddings and other parties.\n\nLinguistically speaking, the majority of Arabic citizens of Israel are fluently bilingual, speaking both a Palestinian Arabic dialect and Hebrew. In Arab homes and towns, the primary language spoken is Arabic. Some Hebrew words have entered the colloquial Arabic dialect. For example, Arabs often use the word \"beseder\" (equivalent of \"Okay\") while speaking Arabic. Other Hebrew words that are regularly interspersed are \"ramzor\" (stoplight), \"mazgan\" (air conditioner), and \"mahshev\" (computer). The resulting dialect is usually referred to as 'Israeli Arabic'.\n\nSuch borrowings are often \"Arabized\" to reflect not only Arabic phonology but the phonology of Hebrew as spoken by Arabs. For example, the second consonant of מעונות (\"me'onot\", \"dormitory\") would be pronounced as a voiced pharyngeal fricative rather than the glottal stop traditionally used by the vast majority of Israeli Jews.\n\nThere are different local colloquial dialects among Arabs in different regions and localities. For example, the Little Triangle residents of Umm al-Fahm are known for pronouncing the kaph sound with a \"ch\" (as-in-cheese) rather than \"k\" (as-in-kite). Some Arabic words or phrases are used only in their respective localities, such as the Nazareth word for \"now\" which is \"issa\", and \"silema\" a local modification of the English word \"cinema\".\n\nArab citizens of Israel tend to watch both the Arab satellite news stations and Israeli cable stations and read both Arabic and Hebrew newspapers, comparing the information against one another.\n\nThe Palestinian art scene in general has been supported by the contributions of Arab citizens of Israel. In addition to the contribution of artists such as singer Amal Murkus (from Kafr Yasif) to evolving traditional Palestinian and Arabic music styles, a new generation of Arab youth in Israel has also begun asserting a Palestinian identity in new musical forms. For instance of the Palestinian hip hop group DAM, from Lod, has spurred the emergence of other hip hop groups from Akka, to Bethlehem, to Ramallah, to Gaza City.\n\nArab Citizens of Israel have been prominent in the field of Athletics, as seen specifically by their contributions to Israeli football. Players such as Abbas Suan have had illustrious careers playing not only professional football, but also most notably for the Israel national football team. These players have been argued to represent symbols of political movement and civil justice for the Arab Citizens of Israel, considering alleged discriminatory sentiments against the Arab population. Specifically in a 2005 World Cup Qualifying match, Suan and his Arab teammates played significant roles for the Israeli National Team, where Suan scored an equalising goal against the Republic of Ireland national football team. Following this match, Arab Citizens of Israel received unprecedented media attention from Israeli TV stations. Even without the publicity, the Arab Citizens of Israel have been said to look up to these players in hopes that they speak up for them as their political voice within Israel.\nIn the following months, Suan and other players were supposedly being criticised by the Hebrew Media for their involvement with political issues. This was due to their answers to questions regarding their partaking in the singing of the Hatikvah, the national anthem of Israel. Overall, Israel-Palestinian soccer players are looked up to greatly by the Arab citizens of Israel, yet are allegedly criticised and silenced when it comes to their attempts to involve themselves in political issues surrounding equality for Arab Citizens in Israel.\n\nArab citizens of Israel have made significant contributions in both Hebrew and Arabic cinema and theater. Mohammad Bakri, and Juliano Mer-Khamis have starred in Israeli film and television. Directors such as Mohammad Bakri, Elia Suleiman, Hany Abu-Assad, and Michel Khleifi have put Arab citizens of Israel on the cinematic map.\n\nAcclaimed Israeli-Arab authors include Emil Habibi, Anton Shammas, and Sayed Kashua.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44823200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44823200", "title": "Astro-Physics", "text": "Astro-Physics\n\nAstro-Physics, Inc. is a manufacturer of amateur telescopes, mounts, and accessories. Founded in 1975 by former Sundstrand Corporation engineer Roland Christen, the company is noted for its line of apochromatic refractors. The company is located in Machesney Park, Illinois.\n\nThe company is owned by Roland and Marjorie Christen. Author and \"\"Astronomy\" magazine\" contributing editor Philip S. Harrington wrote in his 2011 book \"Star Ware: The Amateur Astronomer's Guide to Choosing, Buying, and Using Telescopes and Accessories\" that Astro-Physics is \"a name immediately recognizable to the connoisseur of fine refractors on rock-steady mounts\".\n\nAstro-Physics was profiled by \"Travel Channel\"s Made in America, a TV program hosted by John Ratzenberger, on October 25, 2006. In 2006, the company employed 18 people. The company's finished telescopes, which include mounting and lens, cost between $10,000 and $25,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "52090423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52090423", "title": "Bhawani Bhikshu", "text": "Bhawani Bhikshu\n\nBhawani Bhikshu () is a Nepali literary figure. His real name was Bhawani Prasad Gupta. At the age of 4 years, he was at the mouth of the death, suffering from Bifar [Smallpox]. It is also said that his life was saved due to divine and the power of Goddess Durga. His father Indra Prasad Gupta was a landseller. That's why there was no scarcity of basic needs. He completed his school life in India because of the scarcity of schools in Nepal. Although he was unable to complete his higher studies, he studied independently. He was interested in writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "43408693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43408693", "title": "Bhuwan Thapaliya", "text": "Bhuwan Thapaliya\n\nBhuwan Thapaliya () is a Nepali poet and economist from Kathmandu, Nepal. His recent book is Safa Tempo: Poems New and Selected.\n\nThapaliya has published four poetry collections so far. He works as an economist and lives in Kathmandu. His poetry has been published in The New Pleiades Anthology of Poetry and Tonight: An Anthology of World Love Poetry, in literary journals such as Urhalpool, MahMag, Kritya, FOLLY, The Vallance Review, Nuvein Magazine, Foundling Review, Poetry Life and Times, Poets Against the War, Voices in Wartime and Taj Mahal Review.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26540860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26540860", "title": "Bulaimu Muwanga Kibirige", "text": "Bulaimu Muwanga Kibirige\n\nBulaimu Muwanga Kibirige, commonly known as BMK, is a Ugandan businessman, entrepreneur, and hotel owner. According to a 2012 published report, he was one of the wealthiest people in Uganda. \n\nIn 1997, BMK started with the 40-room motel Hotel Africana on Kololo Hill, which is within Kampala's central business district. During the next decade, the hotel grew into a four star establishment. \n\nBMK is the chairman and managing director of the BMK Group of companies, whose member businesses include:\n\n\nBMK serves in the following public positions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4870531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4870531", "title": "Daniel Myron LeFever", "text": "Daniel Myron LeFever\n\nDaniel Myron Lefever (August 27, 1835 – October 29, 1906) was an American gun maker, popularly known as \"Uncle Dan Lefever\". He is best known as the inventor of the hammerless shotgun, first introduced in 1878.\n\nBorn in Hopewell, New York, Uncle Dan Lefever's gunmaking career began as an apprentice in Canandaigua, New York in the early 1850s. He married Sarah Stead on June 10, 1857, in Canandaigua. He opened his own gunshop in Canandaigua in 1857. His principal business was making muzzle-loading rifles. In 1862 he joined with James Ellis to form Lefever & Ellis. They built long-range rifles which were used in the American Civil War. This partnership broke up in 1867. \n\nSometime before 1870 D. M. Lefever moved to Auburn, New York where he joined with Francis Dangerfield to form Dangerfield & Lefever. This firm made primarily breechloading double shotguns. They also converted muzzle-loading guns to breech-loading. This firm dissolved in late 1873 or early 1874.\n\nIn early 1874 D. M. Lefever moved to Syracuse, New York. Here he joined with Lorenzo Barber to form Barber & Lefever. Again they made breech-loading shotguns and rifles. This partnership lasted a short two years.\n\nD. M. Lefever then joined with John Nichols and formed Nichols & Lefever. During this time D. M. Lefever worked on the development of the hammerless shotgun. These guns were cocked with a cocking lever on the side of the breech. In 1878 he won first prize at the St. Louis Bench Show and Sportsman's Association for the best breech-loading shotgun in America.\n\nBy the time D. M. Lefever patented his hammerless shotgun in 1880 he had left \"Nichols & Lefever\" and gone into business for himself. In 1883 D. M. Lefever patented the first truly automatic hammerless shotgun. This internalized the cocking mechanism so that the gun was automatically cocked when the breech was closed. He also patented the automatic ejector system which ejected the used shells when the breech was opened. In 1886 D. M. Lefever lost control of his company which by then was called Lefever Arms Company. However, he remained as superintendent until 1902.\n\nIn 1902 D. M. Lefever left \"Lefever Arms Company\" to form D. M. Lefever, Sons & Company with sons Charles F. Lefever (also known as Fred who later invented the \"Model 25 Daisy BB pump gun\"), Frank, and George. They continued to make fine hammerless shotguns, but could not compete with the larger Lefever Arms Company. In 1904 they moved to Ohio, first in Defiance and within a year in Bowling Green. In 1906 they returned to Syracuse, New York, however, before being able to re-establish a viable company D. M. Lefever died on October 29 in Syracuse of a stomach ulcer. His remains are interred, with his wife (who died in 1898), in Woodlawn Cemetery in Syracuse.\n\nThe \"Lefever Arms Company\" continued to make fine Lefever designed shotguns in Syracuse until 1916 when they were purchased by the Ithaca Gun Company. Ithaca continued to produce Lefever-designed guns under the Lefever Arms Company name in Ithaca, New York until 1921. These were made using primarily left-over parts from the Syracuse operation. Shortly after that the Ithaca Gun Company used the Lefever name to market an inexpensive gun, the \"Lefever Nitro Special\", that was of their own design, having nothing to do with D. M. Lefever except to exploit his name. These were manufactured until the early 1940s.\n\nMany collectors consider original \"D.M. Lefever\" guns to be the finest ever produced in America.\n\nThe Lefever Arms Collectors Association created the \"Uncle Dan Lefever Cup\" in honor of the legacy of D.M. Lefever. The \"Uncle Dan LeFever Cup\" shoot-off is held annually during a LACA designated trap shoot event. The highest scoring shooter wins a trophy engraved with the year the champion won. Only LACA members, firing Lefever guns, are eligible for the award. The first \"Uncle Dan Lefever Cup\" was awarded during the Greater Northeast Side by Side in Friendsville, PA, on June 6, 2010. LACA held the 2nd Annual shoot-off during the June 2011 Nimrod Classic in Bozeman, MT. The 3rd Annual Uncle Dan Cup was held again at the Greater Northeast Side by Side in Friendsville, PA, on June 2, 2012. The 4th Annual Uncle Dan Cup will be held at the Spring 2013 Southern Side By Side in Sanford, NC. April 26–27, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "597533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=597533", "title": "David Knopfler", "text": "David Knopfler\n\nDavid Knopfler (born 27 December 1952) is a British singer-songwriter, guitarist, pianist, record producer, poet, and author. He is the younger brother of guitarist Mark Knopfler.\n\nHe is a co-founder of the rock band Dire Straits, with whom he spent three years. After quitting the band, Knopfler embarked upon a solo career as a recording artist. Knopfler initially created smaller record labels, publishing companies, and indie labels.\n\nKnopfler has encouraged the advent of online purchasing music since 1995, although he concedes the necessity for other avenues of the distribution and sale of recorded music.\n\nHis book \"Bluffers Guide to the Rock Music Business\" was published in 1996. His anthology of poetry \"Bloodstones and Rhythmic Beasts\" was published 2005.\n\nKnopfler was born in Glasgow, Scotland, to an English mother, Louisa Mary, a teacher, and a Hungarian Jewish father, Erwin Knopfler, an architect.\n\nWhen Knopfler was two, his family moved to Newcastle upon Tyne, England, where he grew up and later attended Gosforth Grammar School.\n\nBy the age of 11, Knopfler owned a guitar, a piano and a drum kit, and by the age of 14, he was playing and singing his own compositions in folk clubs.\n\nAfter attending Bristol Polytechnic, Knopfler became a social worker in London, where he shared a flat with John Illsley.\n\nKnopfler's older brother Mark also played the guitar. David introduced Mark to John Illsley, a bass guitarist, and after gaining the interest of drummer Pick Withers, the four founded the rock band Dire Straits. One of Mark's friends came up with the band's name, which was supposedly a reference to their financial situation at the time the band was beginning to gain notice in the music industry. David however, asserts on his website that \"[the] notion that the band were literally in dire straits is largely retrospective myth making and not really factually supportable. We all had day jobs until we got a whacking big advance from Polygram\".\n\nKnopfler played rhythm guitar beside his brother, who was lead guitarist in the band, and David appeared on Dire Straits' first two albums: \"Dire Straits\" (1978) and \"Communiqué\" (1979). The stress of composing, arranging songs, recording the then-requisite two albums and tours to support them took its toll on the brothers, and David left the band during the recording of their third album, \"Making Movies\" (1980), leaving him uncredited on the album. There is concert video footage, however, of David playing with the band live on several tracks of this album.\n\nAfter leaving Dire Straits, Knopfler released his first solo album in 1983, titled \"Release\". Mark Knopfler and John Illsley both played on the album. Harry Bogdanovs, a lifelong friend of Knopfler, is credited with having co-written three of the tracks and playing synthesizer. The album was supported by the single \"Soul Kissing\" on the label of Peach River Records. The single was a minor commercial success, peaking at #82 in the UK Albums Chart, after Knopfler retrieved the rights from the bankrupt record label.\n\n\"Behind the Lines\", his second album, was released in 1985 and his third solo album, \"Cut the Wire\", followed in 1986. In 1988, the U.S. label Cypress Records released his fourth album, \"Lips Against the Steel\".\n\nKnopfler scored the soundtracks for the films \"Shergar\" (1984) and \"Laser Mission\" (1989), and the German productions \"\" (1984), \"Jakob hinter der blauen Tür\" (1989) and \"\".\n\n\"Lifelines\" in 1991 released by Phonogram, was recorded in Peter Gabriel's Real World Studios. That album was followed in 1993 by \"The Giver\", released by MESA/Bluemoon in the U.S., and Ariola in Europe. Its sparse, acoustic arrangements received positive reviews, as did 1995's \"Small Mercies\", which Knopfler co-produced with Harry Bogdanovs, featuring Chris White on saxophone. In 2001, Knopfler worked with Bogdanovs again to co-produce the album \"Wishbones\", which has guest appearances by Chris Rea and Eddi Reader. His ninth solo album, \"Ship of Dreams\", which also included Chris Rea, was released in 2004.\n\nIn May 2005, Knopfler published a book of poetry, \"Blood Stones and Rhythmic Beasts\", which was released by the UK's BlackWing books ().\n\nThe Canadian jazz label Justin Time Records released \"Ship of Dreams\" in October 2005 with an alternate rendition of \"Tears Fall\" featuring Megan Slankard (replacing Julia Neigel on the original European release). Knopfler's tenth solo album \"Songs for the Siren\" was released in 2006. Recent songwriting projects with other artists have included sessions with Amilia Spicer, Mack Starks, Megan Slankard and Wendy Lands.\n\nHe played various acoustic and electric gigs in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Canada, Turkey and Australia from 2007 to 2009 with Harry Bogdanovs and his band.. A new double CD \"Acoustic\", which contains unplugged renditions of new and old songs was released in 2011.\n\nKnopfler continued to tour in Spain, Germany, the UK, the United States and Canada in 2012 to 2015. The first-ever limited edition live album, \"Made in Germany\" (recorded in Erfurt, Germany during the 2012 tour with Bogdanovs), was released in April 2013 exclusively via CDBaby.com. \nKnopfler is currently recording a new studio album due for release September 2015 ( working title \"Grace\") when he will be touring Germany with Harry Bogdanovs.\n\nKnopfler is married to art professor Leslie Stroz. He has one son with former wife Anna Perera.\n\n"}
{"id": "36081763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36081763", "title": "Design Research Society", "text": "Design Research Society\n\nThe Design Research Society (DRS), founded in the United Kingdom in 1966, is an international society for developing and supporting the interests of the design research community. The primary purpose of the DRS, as embodied in its first statement of rules, is to promote ‘the study of and research into the process of designing in all its many fields'. This established the intention of being an interdisciplinary learned society, taking a scholarly and domain independent view of the process of designing. Membership is open to anyone interested in design research, and members with established experience and a strong background in design research may apply to be elected as a DRS Fellow.\n\nThe origins of the Society lay in the first conference on design methods, (full title \"The Conference on Systematic and Intuitive Methods in Engineering, Industrial Design, Architecture and Communications\") held in London in 1962, which enabled a core of people to be identified who shared interests in new approaches to the process of designing.\n\nInitially, the DRS promoted its aims through a series of one-day conferences and the publication of a quarterly newsletter to members. However, within a few years, unsuccessful attempts to establish a published journal and fruitless internal debate about the Society's goals led to inactivity. The Society was revived by its first major international conference, on design participation, held in Manchester in 1971. At that conference a meeting of DRS members led to a call for a special general meeting of the Society, and to changes of officers and council members. Subsequently, a series of conferences was held through the 1970s and 80s: in London (1973), Portsmouth (1976, 1980), Istanbul (1978), and Bath (1984).\n\nIn the mid-1970s DRS also collaborated with the Design Methods Group, based in the USA, including publishing a joint journal, Design Research and Methods.\n\nBy the late 1970s there was enough enthusiasm, and evidence of design research activity around the world, for the DRS to approach IPC Press (now Elsevier Science) with a successful proposal for its own journal. Design Studies, the international journal for design research, was launched in 1979. A monthly internet news bulletin DesignResearchNews was started in 1998 and has over 9000 subscribers. Between 2006 and 2009 the Society also published a quarterly newsletter, Design Research Quarterly.\n\nA new biennial series of DRS conferences began in 2002 with the 'Common Ground' conference in London. Subsequent ones have been held at venues around the world, with a variety of themes. See the Table below. In 2005 DRS was one of the founding members of the International Association of Societies of Design Research (IASDR), which also holds biennial, international conferences.\n\nSpecial Interest Groups provide a forum for specific areas of research which are of interest to the Design Research Community and its members. SIGs organise events and discussion in a number of ways to facilitate the exchange and development of best practice in the field. Each SIG is organised by a convenor who is supported by an organising group and the SIG members. DRS members are invited to join any Special Interest Group to contribute actively to research in the subject area of their chosen group.\n\nEKSIG is concerned with the understanding and role of knowledge in research and professional practice in design in order to clarify fundamental principles and practices of using design practice within research both with regard to research regulations and requirements, and research methodology.\n\nThe main aims of EKSIG are:\n\nEKSIG runs a biennial conference series, special strands at the DRS and IASDR conferences. It also runs a discussion list, which is used for announcements and debate about the core issues of knowledge and methodology in research and practice in the creative disciplines.\nAll papers selected for presentation at the conference are published in the conference proceedings: an abstract booklet with a CD or USB of the full papers and post-conference online publication, the preferred format of the DRS. Selected papers from each conference have been published in an appropriate journal as a special issue: \"Journal of Visual Arts Practice\" in 2007, \"Journal of Research Practice \"in 2010, \"Journal of Art and Design Education in Higher Education \"in 2012, \"Journal of Art and Design Education in Higher Education \"and in 2015, \"Journal of Research Practice \".\n\nThe SIG focuses on bringing together designers, design researchers, landscape architects and others who aim to improve personal and societal wellbeing through design.\n\nThis SIG on design pedagogy aims to bring together design researchers, teachers and practitioners, and others responsible for the delivery of design education, to clarify and develop the role of design research in providing the theoretical underpinning for design education. \nThe DRS Design Pedagogy Special Interest Group is bringing together other research which is directed to similar ends. Design research is not an irrelevant activity living in its own little ghetto, but rather it provides the basis for the academic core of design teaching and pedagogic innovation. By that means through the provision of the next generation of designers it links into design practice.\nThe DRS PedSIG runs special streams at DRS biannual conferences. It also organised symposia which were hosted by the Coventry University on 27 March 2009 and 28 January 2011.\n\nIn 2010, the DRS PedSIG and CUMULUS Association have join forces to develop a bi-annual international research events. The 1st International Symposium for Design Education Researchers in collaboration with: CUMULUS Association; Design Research Society (DRS); five other international universities (which included: Aalto University, L'École de Design Nantes Atlantique, Coventry University, L'École Parsons à Paris, and Politecnico di Milano); the Lieu de Design, Chambre de commerce et d’industrie de Paris and AVA Publishing. The symposium was held in a prestigious location of in May 2011. A special issue of Collection, a research journal, has been produced featuring a selection of contributions. The 2nd International Conference for Design Research Educators, DRS//CUMULUS 2013, was hosted by the Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences.\n\nThe OPENSiG was originally launched in 2007 under the name ‘Emotion, Experience and Interaction’. A special strand at the DRS conference 2008 and two successful workshops at Sheffield Hallam University (2007) and Nottingham Trent University (2010) served to define the group’s interest in broad questions about human-object interactions – focusing on Objects and engaging with social Practices, which involve Experiences with/ of objects in Networks of relationship.\n\nThe Inclusive Design Research Special Interest Group (InclusiveSIG) aims to provide an international platform for researchers, design practitioners, design educators and students, and the general public to exchange knowledge about inclusive design and to empower wider participation in design.\n\nDesign Research Society’s Design Innovation Management Special Interest Group (DIMSIG) in collaboration with the Design Society’s Design Management Special Interest Group (DeMSIG) formed a cross-societal working party named the Design Management Academy (DMA). The Design School at Hong Kong Polytechnic hosted the first Design Management Academy international conference in June 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "22880107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22880107", "title": "Edmund Creffield", "text": "Edmund Creffield\n\nFranz Edmund Creffield, commonly known as Edmund Creffield and by the pseudonym Joshua (c. 1870–1906), was a German-American religious leader who founded a movement in Corvallis, Oregon, which became known locally as the \"Holy Rollers\". The movement, mainly popular among women, was widely regarded as a cult. Creffield, who believed himself the second coming of Jesus, had a number of run-ins with the authorities and the local citizenry over the next several years, often stemming from his relations with his female followers and his increasingly erratic behavior.\n\nIn 1906 he was murdered by George Mitchell, whose sister was one of Creffield's followers. After being acquitted of wrongdoing in the killing, Mitchell was himself murdered by his sister in revenge, with another follower subsequently committing suicide. The story attracted national attention and was major news for a time in the Pacific Northwest.\n\nCreffield came from Germany; it is unclear how he came to Oregon. He first appeared in Portland in 1903, and he quickly became involved in the Salvation Army. Later that year he was sent on mission to the town of Corvallis. Soon after, he broke with The Salvation Army and formed his own group, which he called the Bride of Christ Church. Townspeople thought it a cult and called them Holy Rollers because they rolled for hours during their services.\n\nEdmund Creffield did not say anything outrageous when he first came to Corvallis in 1903, preaching mostly about \"the beauty of the full Gospel.\" Soon his followers believed he was receiving messages directly from God. Creffield preached for hours on end and his followers loudly rolled on the floor pleading for God's forgiveness. When their cacophonous meetings began running into the early morning hours, Creffield was barred from holding services within city limits.\n\nDuring the summer he and his followers camped out on Kiger Island in the Willamette River. When the fall rains started Sarah Hurt and her three children, Maud, Frank, and Mae, some of his most ardent followers, invited him and about twenty others to move into their house just outside Corvallis. In October the group burned most of the house’s contents including furniture, utensils, heirlooms, a cat, and a dog. Reports that a baby had been sacrificed were false.\n\nPeople soon began to ask if Creffield could really \"live in the same locked house with a number of young girls, and do nothing in the world but be religious.\"\n\nIn January 1904, twenty vigilantes called the White Caps tarred and feathered Creffield, and told him to leave town and never come back. The next day Creffield and Maud Hurt were married in a room where \"the odor of [pine] tar was noticeable.\"\n\nIn February Creffield was accused of having adulterous relations in Portland with Maud’s aunt, Donna Starr. Adultery was a criminal offense, so a warrant was put out for his arrest. A statewide manhunt went on for months. Meanwhile, many of his followers fasted and spent their days lying flat on the floor praying. Most were committed to either the Oregon State Insane Asylum or the Boys and Girls Aid Society in Portland.\n\nIn July, one month after Sarah Hurt was committed, Creffield was discovered nude and starving under her house. Creffield said he was innocent, but was found guilty and served seventeen months in the Oregon State Penitentiary. When released, he claimed he was Jesus Christ risen from the dead, his resurrection being his emergence from prison.\n\nCreffield said he was responsible for the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and his followers, all of whom had been released from the asylum, believed him. \"Creffield is Jesus Christ,\" Cora Hartley said. \"He condemned the city of San Francisco and brought the earthquake; he has condemned the city of Corvallis and an earthquake will destroy this place.\" She and the others obeyed his order to evacuate to the coast.\n\nIn April, Louis Hartley, a wealthy mine owner followed his wife, Cora, and daughter, Sophie, when they went to Newport to meet up with Creffield and the others. As the group boarded a ferry, Hartley fired a revolver four times at Creffield. The gun snapped harmlessly because the centerfire cartridges were wrong for the rimfire gun.\n\nOthers were also gunning for Creffield, so he fled to Seattle with Maud. There, George Mitchell, Esther's brother, found him and, in front of witnesses, killed him.\n\nMultnomah County’s district attorney, John Manning, sent King County’s prosecuting attorney, Kenneth Mackintosh, a letter saying, \"I investigated many, many charges against him [Creffield] while he was on his Holy Rolling tour in Oregon, the character of which were perfectly awful, in so far as being low, degenerate and brutal, and if permitted, I would like an opportunity to testify before the grand jury, before Mitchell is indicted … I think the taking of the law in one’s own hands, under such circumstances, to mete out summary justice is almost excusable.\". Mackintosh was appalled by Manning’s suggestion.\n\nO.V. Hurt, Creffield's father-in-law, hired one of the best law firms in Seattle to defend George. Numerous witnesses testified to telling George that \"free love\" took place in 1903. They said they told George that Creffield preached that Christ would be reborn and one of the Brides’ of Christ would be the new Mary and that he needed to lay his hands upon them and purify them. They said they told George that mothers were debauched in front of their daughters, including Sarah and her then sixteen-year-old daughter, Mae. They said they told George that finally Creffield announced that the new Mary was Esther Mitchell, the then sixteen-year-old sister of George.\"\n\nMany believe that much of the testimony was perjury, a tactic to avoid hearsay and put Creffield on trial. George was found not guilty by reason of insanity and released. Two days later, Esther shot and killed him using a gun Maud bought using their witness fees.\n\nO.V. was devastated, but still loved his daughter so he hired the same lawyers who had defended George, to defend her. Before the case went to trial, Maud committed suicide. Esther was found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed to Western State Hospital, an asylum in Steilacoom, Washington.\n\nEsther was released from the asylum in 1909 She committed suicide in 1914.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3581045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3581045", "title": "Edward Clodd", "text": "Edward Clodd\n\nEdward Clodd (1 July 1840 – 16 March 1930) was an English banker, writer and anthropologist. He had a great variety of literary and scientific friends, who periodically met at Whitsunday (a springtime holiday) gatherings at his home at Aldeburgh in Suffolk.\n\nAlthough born in Margate, where his father was captain of a trading brig, the family moved soon afterward to Aldeburgh, his father's ancestors deriving from Parham and Framlingham in Suffolk. Born to a Baptist family, his parents wished him to become a minister, but he instead began a career in accountancy and banking, relocating to London in 1855. He was the only surviving child of seven. Edward first worked unpaid for six months at an accountant's office in Cornhill in London when he was 14 years of age. He worked for the London Joint Stock Bank from 1872 to 1915, and had residences both in London and Suffolk. He married his first wife Eliza Garman, a doctor's daughter in 1862. He had eight children with Eliza, though two died when they were young. In his old age, he married his secretary, Phyllis Maud Rope (born 1887), who survived him by 27 years.\n\nClodd was an early devotee of the work of Charles Darwin and had personal acquaintance with Thomas Huxley and Herbert Spencer. He wrote biographies of all three men, and worked to popularise evolution with books like \"The Childhood of the World\" and \"The Story of Creation: A Plain Account of Evolution\".\n\nClodd was an agnostic and wrote that the Genesis creation narrative of the Bible is similar to other religious myths and should not be read as a literal account. He wrote many popular books on evolutionary science. He wrote a biography of Thomas Henry Huxley and was a lecturer and populariser of anthropology and evolution.\n\nHe was also a keen folklorist, joining the Folklore Society from 1878, and later becoming its president. He was a Suffolk Secretary of the Prehistoric Society of East Anglia from 1914 to 1916. He was a prominent member and officer of the Omar Khayyam Club or 'O.K. Club', and organised the planting of the rose from Omar Khayyam's tomb on to the grave of Edward Fitzgerald at Boulge, Suffolk, at the Centenary gathering.\n\nClodd had a talent for friendship, and liked to entertain his friends at literary gatherings in Aldeburgh at his seafront home there, Strafford House, during Whitsuntides. Prominent among his literary friends and correspondents were Grant Allen, George Meredith, Thomas Hardy, George Gissing, Edward Fitzgerald, Andrew Lang, Cotter Morison, Samuel Butler, Mary Kingsley and Mrs Lynn Linton; he also knew Sir Henry Thompson, Sir William Huggins, Sir Laurence Gomme, Sir John Rhys, Paul Du Chaillu, Edward Whymper, Alfred Comyn Lyall, York Powell, William Holman Hunt, Sir E. Ray Lankester, H.G. Wells and many others as acquaintances. His hospitality and friendship was an important part of the development of their social relations.\n\nClodd was Chairman of the Rationalist Press Association from 1906 to 1913.\n\nHe was skeptical about claims of the paranormal and psychical research, which he wrote were the result of superstition and the outcome of ignorance. He criticised the spiritualist writings of Oliver Lodge as non-scientific. His book \"Question: A Brief History and Examination of Modern Spiritualism\" (1917) exposed fraudulent mediumship and the irrational belief in spiritualism and Theosophy.\n\nThe following list is incomplete. Biographies of Darwin, Wallace, Bates and Spencer exist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2918883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2918883", "title": "F. W. Winterbotham", "text": "F. W. Winterbotham\n\nFrederick William Winterbotham (16 April 1897 – 28 January 1990) was a British Royal Air Force officer (latterly a Group Captain) who during World War II supervised the distribution of Ultra intelligence. His book \"The Ultra Secret\" was the first popular account of Ultra to be published in Britain.\n\nHe was born in Stroud, Gloucestershire, the younger child and only son of Frederick Winterbotham, solicitor, and his wife, Florence Vernon Graham. He was educated at Charterhouse School, in Godalming, Surrey. He married four times: Erica Horniman (1921), daughter of Frederick John Horniman, tea trader and MP, Madge Mary Moncrieff Anderson (1939), Joan Petrea Trant (1948) and Kathleen Price (1987).\n\nAt the start of the war, in 1914, he enlisted in the Royal Gloucestershire Hussars Yeomanry. He transferred to the Royal Flying Corps in 1916, and became a fighter pilot. He was shot down and captured on 13 July 1917, in Passchendaele, and spent the rest of the war as a prisoner, for much of the time in Holzminden prisoner-of-war camp.\n\nUpon his release in 1918 he went to Christ Church, Oxford, to study law. He took a law degree (1920) in the shortened course for returning servicemen, but had no liking for an office job. He pursued farming opportunities in Britain, Kenya, and Rhodesia without success. By 1929 he was back in Britain, and considered becoming a stockbroker in the City. Instead he was recruited to join the staff of the Royal Air Force, where he was assigned to the newly created Air Section of the Secret Intelligence Service (MI-6). During the next few years, Winterbotham began the process of building up an intelligence service for the RAF. His job was to gather information on the development of military aviation in hostile or potentially hostile countries. He recruited agents, and filed and analyzed their reports.\n\nOne of these reports revealed that Germany had secret arrangements with the Soviet Union for the training of military pilots in violation of the Treaty of Versailles. William de Ropp, the agent who supplied this information also informed Winterbotham that the Nazis, not yet in power, wanted to cultivate high-level contacts in Britain; they imagined that \"imperialist\" Britain would be sympathetic to their own dreams of racial conquest. Winterbotham, who was socially well-connected, seemed a likely channel.\n\nThis led to a visit by Nazi \"philosopher\" Alfred Rosenberg in 1932. Winterbotham, with the full knowledge of MI-6, escorted Rosenberg around Britain, made some appropriate introductions, and played up to him. Neither Ropp nor Rosenberg knew that Winterbotham had any intelligence connections—he was just a civilian official of the Air Staff.\n\nWinterbotham continued in this role for the next seven years. He became a regular visitor to Germany, and an apparent Nazi sympathizer. As such, he was welcomed into the highest circles in Germany, meeting Hitler and Göring, and with Göring's Luftwaffe subordinates such as Erhard Milch and Albert von Kesselring. He gathered a tremendous amount of information on the Luftwaffe and on German political and military intentions.\n\nIn 1938, Winterbotham recruited Sidney Cotton to carry out some very successful aerial reconnaissance over Italy and Germany in 1939–40 in a private Lockheed 12A aircraft.\n\nThese games came to an end when World War II broke out in 1939. As a top ranking member of MI6 (he reported directly to its head, Sir Hugh Sinclair, and his successor in 1940, Sir Stewart Menzies), Winterbotham was fully aware of Britain's successful code-breaking operation against the German Enigma cipher machine. The intelligence derived from Enigma decrypts was absolutely authentic (it was what the Germans were telling each other) and it was often of immense value. This source was so valuable it was given the special classification \"Top Secret Ultra\", or simply \"Ultra\".\n\nAt first the British forces did not know what to do with the information, but this problem was solved during the later part of 1940, as teams of analysts were formed to scan, digest, and file the messages, and channels were established for forwarding key messages to the appropriate field commands.\n\nA key part of the solution was arranging for the secure delivery of Ultra to the various commanders, and making sure that they did nothing to give away the secret that Enigma was being read. Winterbotham took charge of this process. He formed \"Special Liaison Units\", which were attached to each field headquarters that received Enigma.\nAn SLU consisted of a few RAF officers and enlisted men, low in rank to avoid drawing attention. They received Ultra messages by radio from Britain, carefully encrypted in Britain's strongest cipher. They decrypted the messages, and handed them over to the commander, who was often the only person cleared to know where the information came from. (At some HQs, there might be one or two deputies also cleared.) The SLU was expected to retrieve the Ultra message after the commander had read it and keep it under lock and key.\n\nThe SLU was also expected to keep the recipient commander from telling anyone else about the origins of the message or acting too obviously on its contents. Naturally, this sometimes led to conflicts with field commanders who objected to being second-guessed. After the U.S. entered the war, these field commanders were often not British.\n\nWinterbotham was responsible for recruiting and training the SLU personnel for this difficult role. They had to be very able technically, be close-mouthed, keep a low profile, and also be diplomatic enough to manage commanders who far outranked them. When diplomacy failed, Winterbotham flew out to the problem HQ to resolve the quarrel. He had the ultimate authority of the Allied governments behind him, as both Britain and the U.S. would do almost anything to avoid exposing the secret of the decryptions.\n\nWinterbotham succeeded brilliantly all around. The SLU personnel he picked did splendid jobs; and he was very effective in dealing with recalcitrant commanders. There were no leaks about Ultra in the field.\n\nUltra remained strictly secret even after the war. Then in 1974, Winterbotham's book, \"The Ultra Secret\", was published. This was the first book in English about Ultra, and it explained what Ultra was, and revealed Winterbotham's role, particularly with regard to the dissemination and use of Ultra.\n\nThere had been mentions of Enigma decryption in earlier books by Władysław Kozaczuk, Ladislas Farago and Gustave Bertrand. However, Winterbotham's book was the first extensive account of the uses to which the massive volumes of Enigma-derived intelligence were put by the Allies, on the western and eastern European fronts, in the Mediterranean, North Africa, and perhaps most crucially, in the Battle of the Atlantic.\n\nWinterbotham's account has been criticized for inaccuracies and self-aggrandizement. Winterbotham acknowledged in the book that he was no cryptologist and had only slight understanding of the cryptologic side of the multi-faceted and strictly compartmentalized Ultra operation. His description of the pioneering work done by Poland's Cipher Bureau before the war is minimal and incorrect. Winterbotham later responded that he had simply passed on the story that he had been given at the time. He erroneously suggested that Japan's PURPLE cipher machine was a version of the German Enigma and confused \"Dilly\" Knox with a different person.\n\nPerhaps the worst flaw in the book is the myth of Winston Churchill and the Coventry Blitz. During The Blitz of 1940–1941, Coventry was severely bombed by the Luftwaffe on the night of 14–15 November. There was heavy damage and numerous civilian casualties. Winterbotham asserted that Enigma decrypts had provided clear advance warning of the raid but that Churchill personally decided not to take any special countermeasures that might alert the Germans that the British were reading Enigma. This story has been widely repeated, even though it has been thoroughly refuted by other historians and memoirists. \n\nPeter Calvocoressi was head of the Air Section at Bletchley Park that translated and analysed all decrypted Luftwaffe messages. He wrote that \"Ultra never mentioned Coventry... Churchill, so far from pondering whether to save Coventry or safeguard Ultra, was under the impression that the raid was to be on London.\"\n\nNevertheless, Winterbotham's book is a vivid first-hand account by one of the key figures in the Ultra story, and much of the book still retains interest and validity. Winterbotham concludes that the war's outcome \"was, in fact, a very narrow shave, and the reader may like to ponder [...] whether or not we might have won had we not had Ultra\".\n\nJames Holland credits Winterbotham with responding to a letter from Barnes Wallis with a desperate cry for assistance (\"help oh help\") with a letter of his own, in February 1943. Winterbotham's letter ensured the chief of the air staff, Air Chief Marshall Sir Charles Portal, knew of the Wallis plan, and took a favourable view of it. Portal overrode the resistance of Sir Arthur Harris, 1st Baronet, head of Bomber Command, to Wallis' proposal, and the Dambusters raid, code-named Operation Chastise in May 1943, was approved.\n\nBefore and after \"The Ultra Secret\", Winterbotham wrote several other books dealing with various aspects of his intelligence work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325153", "title": "Five Tiger Generals", "text": "Five Tiger Generals\n\nThe Five Tiger Generals is a popular appellation in Chinese culture for any five military generals serving under a ruler. This term is used in literature texts, plays and popular culture. In historical contexts, \"Five Tiger Generals\" usually refers to the five best military generals serving under the ruler. The term does not appear in Chinese historical records and is not used officially.\n\nWhen applied to the Three Kingdoms period, the \"Five Tiger Generals\" refer to five generals from the state of Shu Han. In the historical text \"Records of the Three Kingdoms\" (\"Sanguozhi\"), the biographies of Guan Yu, Zhang Fei, Zhao Yun, Ma Chao and Huang Zhong are placed in the same volume. In the historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" (\"Sanguo Yanyi\"), which romanticises the events before and during the Three Kingdoms period, the Shu emperor Liu Bei actually bestowed the titles of \"Five Tiger Generals\" on these five generals. The historicity of the Tiger Generals is unknown; those generals existed but it is uncertain whether they were granted the titles contemporarily or posthumously honoured as such.\n\nIn the classical novel \"Water Margin\", five of the 108 outlaws at Liangshan Marsh – Guan Sheng, Lin Chong, Qin Ming, Huyan Zhuo and Dong Ping – are named the \"Five Tiger Generals\" of the Liangshan cavalry.\n\nIn the historical novel \"Shuo Tang\", the rebellion force of Wagang Army has \"Five Tiger Generals\" including Qin Shubao, Shan Xiongxin, Cheng Yaojin, Wang Bodang and Luo Cheng.\n\nThe Qing dynasty writer Li Yutang named Di Qing, Shi Yu, Zhang Zhong, Li Yi, and Liu Qing as the \"Five Tiger Generals\" in his works \"Romance of Di Qing\", \"The Five Tigers Conquer the West\", and \"The Five Tigers Pacify the South\".\n\nIn \"Heroes of the Ming Dynasty\", a novel romanticising the events leading to the founding of the Ming dynasty, Xu Da, Tang He, Chang Yuchun, Hu Dahai, and Mu Ying are named the \"Five Founding Tiger Generals of Ming\".\n\nIn present-day terminology, \"Five Tiger Generals\" can refer to any group of five that is particularly outstanding in a certain field.\n\nHsiao Shou-li, Chiang Wu-tung, Chiao Tsai-pao, Chen Chun-sheng, and Su Teng-wang are called \"Five Tiger Generals\" of Taiwanese opera.\n\nTaiwanese politicians Kuo Yu-hsin, Li Wan-chu, Kuo Kuo-chi, Li Yuan-chan, and Wu San-lien are called the \"Five Tiger Generals\" of the Taiwan Provincial Consultative Council. Together with female politician Hsu Shih-hsien, the six of them are called \"Five Tigers and the Phoenix\".\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, the five hosts of the Taiwanese television channel Sanlih E-Television, He Yih-hang, Peng Chia-chia, Yang Fan, Yu Tien and Li Teng-tsai are called \"Five Tiger Generals\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Hong Kong television actors Felix Wong, Michael Miu, Kent Tong, Andy Lau and Tony Leung are called the \"Five Tiger Generals of TVB\". The five of them starred together in the 1991 film \"The Tigers\".\n\nIn 2009, a Taiwanese musical band called Wu Hu Jiang was formed. The five members starred as the Five Tiger Generals of Shu in the television series \"K.O.3an Guo\", which spoofs \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" in a modern school setting.\n\n\n "}
{"id": "716546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716546", "title": "Fred Crisman", "text": "Fred Crisman\n\nFred Lee Crisman (July 22, 1919 - December 10, 1975) was an author from Tacoma, Washington known for claims of paranormal events and 20th century conspiracies.\n\nIn 1947, Crisman was involved in the Maury Island incident, an early UFO hoax. Crisman's \"fellow UFO witness\" Harold Dahl believed the 1960s TV series, \"The Invaders\" was based on Crisman's life. Prior to this, Crisman had written to \"Amazing Stories\" magazine claiming that he battled \"mysterious and evil\" underground creatures to free himself from a cave in Burma during World War II.\n\nIn 1969, Crisman was subpoenaed by Jim Garrison to testify in the case against Clay Shaw in the John F. Kennedy assassination. A photocopied document later circulated among Kennedy assassination buffs claimed that Crisman was one of the \"three tramps\" allegedly employed by a secret government agency. During this time, he hosted a radio talk show under the pseudonym \"Jon Gold\" and wrote a book, \"The Murder of a City, Tacoma\" published in 1970 through Transistor Publishing Company. The book was described by reviewer Michael Sullivan as a \"weird, politically slanted rant\" that manages to \"tie corruption in Tacoma to everything from communist infiltrators to the Kennedy assassination\".\n\nIn 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations reported that forensic anthropologists had analyzed and compared the photographs of the \"tramps\" with those of Crisman, as well as with photographs of Watergate figures E. Howard Hunt, Frank Sturgis, and two other men. According to the Committee, only Crisman resembled any of the tramps; but the same Committee determined that he was not in Dealey Plaza on the day of the assassination.\n\nConspiracy authors consider Crisman \"a nexus point for a number of conspiracies and cover-ups from the late 1940s until [his] death in 1975\".\n"}
{"id": "54012873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54012873", "title": "Gene B. Glick", "text": "Gene B. Glick\n\nEugene (Gene) B. Glick (August 29, 1921 – October 2, 2013) was a noted Indiana philanthropist and builder. After returning from serving with the U.S. Army in the European theater during World War II, he and his wife, Marilyn Glick, began constructing housing in the Indianapolis area with other military veterans in mind. Originally concentrating on building single-family homes and then shifting to apartment projects in the 1960s, the Glicks amassed a considerable fortune over their lifetimes, the bulk of which they used for extensive philanthropic endeavors.\n\nWith more than $142 million in charitable donations to date, the Glicks’ philanthropic impact on the state of Indiana is one of the largest of any family-based organization. Many significant cultural landmarks, civic endeavors and educational entities across the state bear the Glick name.\n\nAfter the deaths of Marilyn Glick in 2012 and Eugene Glick in 2013, oversight of the company and philanthropic activities has remained under the control of their children and other family members.\n\nEugene Biccard Glick was born in Indianapolis on Aug. 29, 1921, the eldest son of Reuben and Faye Biccard Glick. The family was Jewish of German ancestry. His younger brother, Arthur, died of spinal meningitis in 1937. Gene attended Shortridge High School at the same time as author Kurt Vonnegut. While attending Indiana University, he operated a charter bus service for students.\n\nAfter graduating from IU in December 1942 with a bachelor’s degree in business, Glick enlisted in the U.S. Army. Glick served as an infantry combat instructor until June 1944, when he was deployed to Italy. He soon requested a transfer to the French front, and joined the 179th Regiment of the 45th Infantry Division. His fluency in German led to him serving as an interrogator for Army scouts.\n\nHe was nearly killed during the Battle of the Bulge, which greatly affected his outlook on life. In his book \"Born to Build\", Glick recounted that on Nov. 11, 1944, he huddled under cover during an intense artillery barrage for hours, and promised himself that if he survived he would always look back on that day as a lesson to never lose hope.\n\nGlick and his unit liberated the Dachau concentration camp. He had a camera with him and helped document the atrocities of the Holocaust; Glick later donated his photographs to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and Emory University. While serving in the war, Glick received the European Theater medal, the Combat Infantryman Badge and the Bronze Star.\n\nGlick’s wartime experiences led to him being featured in Tom Brokaw’s best-selling book, \"The Greatest Generation\", as well as contemporaneous television broadcasts hosted by Tom Brokaw and Matt Lauer.\n\nUpon returning to Indianapolis after mustering out, Glick founded the G.I. loans department at People’s Bank. Glick married Marilyn Koffman in 1947, and together they began building single family homes in Indianapolis, an enterprise that eventually became the Gene B. Glick Company.\n\nThe couple had four daughters: Marianne Glick, Arlene Grande, Alice Meshbane and Lynda Schwartz. The Glicks raised their family in the Indianapolis area and continued to reside there for the rest of their lives. In 1982, they created the Eugene and Marilyn Glick Family Foundation and began to devote more of their time and wealth to charitable causes.\n\nThey remained active in the Indianapolis Jewish community as members of the Indianapolis Hebrew Congregation, and were noted patrons of the Jewish Federation of Greater Indianapolis, whose community center is named after Glick’s brother, Arthur.\n\nGene Glick died on Oct. 2, 2013 at the age of 92.\n\nThe Gene B. Glick Company is a multifamily housing development and property management company founded by Gene Glick in 1947. Based in Indianapolis, Indiana, it is one of the largest privately owned firms in the apartment industry within the state and nationwide. As of 2017 it owns and operates properties in 12 states, with more than 20,000 apartment units and approximately 7,000 employees.\n\nGlick started the company, then known as Indianapolis Homes Inc., building single family houses on the Eastside of Indianapolis using money he saved while serving in the Army, as well as savings of his wife, Marilyn. His stated aim was to help other military veterans successfully transition to civilian life. During the 1950s the company became a leading franchisee of National Homes, expanding from building single homes to entire subdivisions.\n\nBy 1962, the company had changed its name to the Gene B. Glick Company and was generating more than $1 million in sales annually. In this same year, the company built its first apartment community, Williamsburg East. The business changed its focus from single family houses to multifamily communities, with an emphasis on creating affordable homes for low-income families using federal Section 8 funding. By 1968, the Gene B. Glick Company had shifted its entire business model to building, acquiring and managing apartment buildings.\n\nFrom the late 1960s through the 1980s, the company expanded from Indiana to Ohio, Florida, Georgia, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, New York, Virginia, Kentucky and Illinois.\n\nBy the 2000s, Gene and Marilyn Glick became focused on their philanthropic endeavors, turning over more of the daily operations to their children and grandchildren. Gene Glick officially retired in 2008, at which point his granddaughter’s husband, David Barrett, became President and CEO of the Gene B. Glick Company.\n\nThe company has continued to expand over the past decade, building or acquiring more apartment communities as well as a new national headquarters building in Indianapolis. In 2017 it expanded into its 12th state, Wisconsin.\n\nGene Glick is regarded as one of the most significant philanthropists in Indiana history. Gene and Marilyn Glick made charitable contributions throughout their lives that grew as their personal fortune did.\n\nIn 1982, they established the Eugene and Marilyn Glick Family Foundation to organize their philanthropic endeavors. It was later joined by the Glick Family Housing Foundation, which focuses on providing homes and support services for low-income families; the Glick Fund administered by the Central Indiana Community Foundation, which primarily goes toward education, self-sufficiency and the arts; and a separate Glick Fund of the Jewish Federation of Greater Indianapolis.\n\nGlick’s philanthropic efforts focused on education, health care, affordable housing for low-income families, community support services and the arts. Numerous buildings, landmarks, educational programs and cultural endeavors across Indiana are named after the Glicks.\n\nThe Indianapolis Cultural Trail: A Legacy of Gene & Marilyn Glick is an 8-mile network of urban pedestrian and bike corridors linking the city’s seven Indianapolis Cultural Districts. It opened in 2013 after 12 years of planning and six years of construction at a total cost of $62.5 million in a public-private partnership. The Glicks donated $15 million as seed money for the project.\n\nThe Eugene and Marilyn Glick History Center, a museum in downtown Indianapolis for historical artifacts that also hosts many cultural events, serves as the headquarters of the Indiana Historical Society. The center was built in 1999 and reopened and renamed in 2010 in honor of the Glick’s $8 million gift to the project.\n\nIn 2007, Gene and Marilyn gave $30 million to Indiana University to establish the Glick Eye Institute, which houses the Department of Ophthalmology at the IU School of Medicine. Gene Glick had previously established an IU scholarship program in his name.\n\nIn conjunction with the Indianapolis Public Library Foundation, the Glicks created the Indiana Authors Award recognizing notable Indiana writers beginning in 2009.\n\nIn 2017, the Glick Fund gave a grant to the local NPR affiliate, WFYI, to fund a reporter position covering issues of poverty and health.\n\nOther notable institutions to receive Glick donations include the Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, United Way of Central Indiana, Riley Children’s Hospital, Second Helpings, the Indianapolis Art Center, Ball State University and TeenWorks, a job-training program for local underprivileged teens that Gene Glick launched in the 1980s.\n\nGlick received numerous personal awards and honors during his lifetime. He received the Sagamore of the Wabash, the state of Indiana’s highest civilian award at the time, on three occasions – in 1982, 1992 and 2005 – making him one of only four people to receive the Sagamore three or more times.\n\nHe was named an Indiana Living Legend by the Indiana Historical Society in 2002. The Indiana Chapter of the National Society of Fund Raising Executives, now known as the Association of Fundraising Professionals, gave him their Lifetime Achievement Award. He was a member of both the National Housing Hall of Fame and the Central Indiana Business Hall of Fame. Glick received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Butler University in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "505083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=505083", "title": "Grattius", "text": "Grattius\n\nGratius Faliscus or Grattius was a Roman poet of the age of Augustus (63 BC – 14 AD). He is known as the author of a \"Cynegeticon\", a poem on hunting.\n\nThe only reference to Grattius in any extant ancient writer is a passing reference in Ovid, \"Ex Ponto\": \n\nSome lines by Manilius have been supposed to allude to Grattius, but the terms in which they are expressed are too vague to warrant such a conclusion. According to Wernsdorf, who argued from the name, he must have been a slave or a freedman. The cognomen, or epithet, Faliscus, from which it has been inferred that he was a native of Falerii was first introduced by Barth, on the authority of a manuscript which no one else ever saw, and probably originated in a forced interpretation of one of the lines in the poem, \"At contra nostris imbellia lina Faliscis\" (5.40). William Ramsay argued that in the context, \"nostris\" here denotes merely \"Italian\", in contradistinction to the various foreign tribes spoken of in the preceding verses.\n\n541 hexameter lines of Grattius's poem about hunting are preserved in a manuscript of c. 800 AD. The work describes various kinds of game, methods of hunting, and the best breeds of horses and dogs, using a fairly regular hexameter to do so. Grattius stresses the role of \"ratio\" (reason) in hunting, seeing it as a civilising endeavour in the tradition of Hercules, as opposed to indulgence in luxuria.\n\nThe poem, entitled \"Cynegeticon Liber\", professes to set forth the apparatus (\"arma\") necessary for the sportsman, and the manner in which the various requisites for the pursuit of game are to be procured, prepared, and preserved (\"artes armorum\".) Among the \"arma\" of the hunter are included not only nets, gins, snares (\"retia, pedicae, laquei\"), darts and spears (\"jacula, venabula\"), but also horses and dogs, and a large portion of the undertaking (verses 150–430) is devoted to a systematic account of the different kinds of hounds and horses.\n\nThe matter and arrangement of the treatise are derived in a great measure from Xenophon, although information was drawn from other ancient sources, such as Dercylus the Arcadian, and Hagnon of Boeotia.\n\nAccording to Ramsay, the language of the \"Cynegetica\" is pure, and not unworthy of the age to which it belongs, but there is frequently a harshness in the structure of the periods, a strange and unauthorised use of particular words, and a general want of distinctness, which, in addition to a very corrupt text, render it a task of great difficulty to determine the exact meaning of many passages. Although considerable skill is manifested in the combination of the parts – Ramsay continues – the author did not possess sufficient power to overcome the obstacles which were triumphantly combated by Virgil. \n\nIt is remarkable that both the second-century poets Oppianus and Nemesianus arrogate to themselves the honour of having entered upon a path altogether untrodden. Whether we believe them to be sincere and ignorant, or suspect them of deliberate dishonesty, their bold assertion is sufficient to prove that the poem of Grattius had in their day become almost totally unknown.\n\nThe Cynegetica has been transmitted to modern times through the medium of a single manuscript, which was brought from Gaul to Italy by Actius Sannazarius about the beginning of the sixteenth century, and contained also the Cynegetics of Nemesianus, and the Halieutics ascribed to Ovid. A second copy of the first 159 lines was found by Jan van Vliet appended to another manuscript of the Halieutics.\n\nThe \"Editio Princeps\" was printed at Venice in February 1534, by Aldus Manutius, in a volume, containing also the Halieutica of Ovid, the Cynegetica and Carmen Bucolicum of Nemesianus, the Buolica of Calpurnius Siculus, together with the Venatio of Hadrianus; and reprinted at Augsburg in the July of the same year. The best editions are those contained in the Poetae Latini Minores of Burmann (vol. i. Lug. Bat. 1731), and of Wernsdorf (vol. i. p. 6, 293, ii. p. 34, iv. pt. ii. p. 790, 806, v. pt. iii. p. 1445), whose introductions provide all the requisite preliminary information.\n\nA translation into English verse with notes, and the Latin text, by Christopher Wase, was published at London in 1654, and a translation into German, also metrical, by S. E. G. Perlet, at Leipzig, in 1826.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "827535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827535", "title": "Hayam Wuruk", "text": "Hayam Wuruk\n\nHayam Wuruk, also called (after 1350) Rajasanagara, Pa-ta-na-pa-na-wu, or Bhatara Prabhu, (1334–1389), was a Javanese Hindu King from the Rajasa Dynasty and the fourth monarch of the Indianised Majapahit Empire. Together with his prime minister Gajah Mada, he reigned the empire at the time of its greatest power. During his reign the Hindu epics, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, became ingrained in the culture and worldview of the Javanese through the wayang kulit (“leather puppets”). He was preceded by Tribhuwana Wijayatunggadewi and succeeded by his son-in-law Wikramawardhana. Most of the accounts of his life were taken from Nagarakretagama and Pararaton.\n\nAccording to Nagarakretagama canto 1 stanza 4 and 5 (composed by Mpu Prapanca in 1365), Hayam Wuruk was born in 1256 Saka or correspond to 1334 CE, the same year that Mount Kelud erupted. Prapanca argued that this was the divine sign that \"Batara Gurunata\" (Javanese name for Shiva Mahadewa) has manifest Himself on earth, reincarnated as the Javanese king. Also in the same, Gajah Mada declared his oath Sumpah Palapa.\n\nHayam Wuruk's name can be translated as \"scholar rooster\". He was the son of Tribhuwana Tunggadewi and Sri Kertawardhana or Cakradhara. His mother was the daughter of Raden Wijaya founder of Majapahit, meanwhile his father was the son of Bhre Tumapel lesser king of Singhasari. Both Pararaton and Nagarakretagama praised Hayam Wuruk as a handsome, bright, talented, and exceptional student in the courtly martial arts of archery and fencing, also mastering politics and scriptures, as well as arts and music. He was known as an accomplished ceremonial dancer in the court. Some accounts tell of Hayam Wuruk's performances in a traditional ceremonial Javanese mask dance. His mother, Queen Tribhuwana, educated and groomed him to become the next monarch of Majapahit.\n\nIn 1350 Gayatri Rajapatni died in her retirement at a Buddhist monastery. She was the consort of Raden Wijaya, the first king of Majapahit, and also the grandmother of Hayam Wuruk. Queen Tribhuwana had to abdicate because she ruled Majapahit under Rajapatni's auspices, and she was obliged to relinquish her throne to her son.\n\nHayam Wuruk inherited the throne in 1350 at the age of 16 when the patih (prime minister) Gajah Mada was at the height of his career. Under his rule, Majapahit extended its power throughout the Indonesian archipelago.\n\nAccording to Pararaton and Kidung Sunda, in 1357 King Hayam Wuruk was expected to marry Dyah Pitaloka Citraresmi, the princess of the Sunda Kingdom. The reason for this royal engagement was probably political, to foster the alliance between the Majapahit and the Sundanese Kingdoms. However, in the Bubat incident, the Sunda royal family and their guards were involved in a skirmish with Majapahit troops. The planned royal wedding ended in disaster with the death of the princess and the whole Sunda royal party. The court officials blamed Gajah Mada because it was his intention to demand submission from Sunda Kingdom that ended in bloodshed.\n\nSeveral years later Hayam Wuruk married his half-sister, Paduka Sori, daughter of . Hayam Wuruk and Paduka Sori have 1 father, different mothers.\nIn 1365 (or 1287 Saka year), Mpu Prapanca wrote the \"kakawin\" Nagarakretagama, the old Javanese eulogy for King Hayam Wuruk. The manuscript described Hayam Wuruk's royal excursion around the Majapahit realm to visit villages, holy shrines, vassal kingdoms and territory in East Java.\n\nHe sent embassies to China from 1370 to 1381.\n\nHayam Wuruk had a daughter, Crown Princess Kusumawardhani, with Queen Sori. Kusumawardhani married a relative, Prince Wikramawardhana. However, from a consort concubine, Hayam Wuruk had a son, Prince Wirabhumi. After Hayam Wuruk's death in 1389, the empire fell into chaos and decline during the contest over succession between Wikramawardhana and Wirabhumi. The dispute ended in Wirabhumi's defeat in the Paregreg war. Wikramawardhana succeeded Hayam Wuruk as the King of Majapahit.\n\nHis reign, as part of Indosphere of Greater India, helped further Indianisation of Javanese culture through the spread of Hinduism and sanskritization.\n\n"}
{"id": "28277593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28277593", "title": "Hidden in Plain Sight", "text": "Hidden in Plain Sight\n\nHidden in Plain Sight () is a non-fiction book by Juha Suoranta on helping a minor asylum seeker in Finland. The book, based on the author's journal, is about his attempt to protect Ashraf Sahil, and to help him avoid deportation to inhuman conditions.\n\nSahil, who as a young child had fled with his family from Afghanistan to Pakistan in the 1990, was first sent to Iran from where he was carried to Greece through Turkey by human smugglers. From there he traveled across Europe to Finland in summer 2008. The Finnish Immigration officials did not grant him a due asylum process but instead imposed a deportation when the author received an e-mail request for help from his sociologist friend in Minneapolis.\n\nSuoranta states that he could not tolerate a situation \"where a young person was about to be sent into an uncertain, perhaps life-threatening, situation. If it was in my power to do something, I had to do something... Although I did not know what asylum, deportation, irregular immigration, or the Dublin agreement meant, it was necessary to try to do something, search for help, at least. When I found out that there was no organisation, including the church, which could help, I realised that I had a duty.\" Thus he hid the youngster to his late grandfather's apartment.\n\nThe book has three storylines or intertwined layers. In one level it describes in a form of a journal the actual incidents in chronological order, a 5-month period from March to August 2009. In other level it ponders the author's inner feelings and anxieties in a difficult and unprecedented circumstances. And yet in another level the text contains ethical and moral reflections pertaining universal questions of helping another human beings referring, among others, to sociologist Zygmunt Bauman and philosopher Peter Singer, especially his \"Practical Ethics\" and \"The Life You Can Save\".\n\nSuoranta's ethics in helping and hiding a stranger is as follows: \"Suffering and death because of the lack of basic needs or protection are unnecessary. And if they can be prevented without notable sacrifices, compared to suffering and death, it is wrong not to help.\"\n\nIn Finland the book attracted publicity in newspapers, magazines and blogosphere as stories and book reviews; e.g. \"Helsingin Sanomat\", the largest subscription newspaper in Finland, published a story in its Sunday pages titled \"Good Tamperenian\" in the eve of the book's publication.\n"}
{"id": "476676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=476676", "title": "Hildegard Lächert", "text": "Hildegard Lächert\n\nHildegard Martha Lächert (20 January 1920 – 1995) was a female guard, or \"Aufseherin\", at several German World War II concentration camps. She became publicly known for her service at Ravensbrück, Majdanek and Auschwitz-Birkenau. After the war she was sentenced to a total of 27 years in prison for her brutal treatment of inmates during her camp service of which she only served close to ten. She later did work for the CIA and for the West German spy agency the BND (Federal Intelligence Service).\n\nIn October 1942, at the age of 22, Hildegard Lächert, a German nurse, was called to serve at Majdanek as an \"Aufseherin\". In 1944, after the birth of her third child, Lächert went on to serve at Auschwitz concentration camp. The ruthless overseer fled the camp in December 1944 ahead of the advancing Red Army. There are reports that her last overseeing jobs were at Bolzano, a detention camp in northern Italy, and at the Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp in Austria.\n\nIn November 1947, the former SS woman appeared in a Kraków, Poland courtroom, along with 40 other SS guards in the Auschwitz trial. Lächert sat next to three other former SS women, Alice Orlowski, Therese Brandl and Luise Danz. Because of her war crimes at Auschwitz and Płaszów, the former guard and mother of two surviving children was given a sentence of 15 years in prison. Lächert was released in 1956 from a Kraków prison. In 1975, the German government decided to try 16 former SS guards from the Majdanek concentration camp. Lächert was one of them, along with Hermine Braunsteiner and Alice Orlowski. From 26 November 1975 until 30 June 1981, the accused were tried in a Düsseldorf courtroom.\n\nThe testimonies heard concerning Lächert's sadistic behaviour were long and detailed. One former prisoner, Henryka Ostrowska, testified, \"We always said \"blutige\" about the fact that she struck until blood showed,\" giving her the nickname \"Bloody Brigitte\" (\"Krwawa Brygida\" in Polish). Many other witnesses characterized her as the \"worst\" or \"the most cruel\" \"Aufseherin\", as \"Beast\", and as \"Fright of the Prisoners.\" For her part in selections to the gas chamber, releasing her dog onto inmates and her overall abuse, the court sentenced her to 12 years' imprisonment. She never had to serve this time since her imprisonment in Poland (close to 10 years) and the time she spent in custody awaiting trial (5 years) were allowed for.\n\nHildegard Lächert died in 1995 in Berlin, aged 75.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45693696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45693696", "title": "Ignace Ziadé", "text": "Ignace Ziadé\n\nIgnace Ziadé (born on 26 January 1906 in Harharaya, Lebanon - died on 31 March 1994 in Beirut, Lebanon) was Archbishop of the Maronite Catholic Archeparchy of Aleppo and the Maronite Catholic Archeparchy of Beirut.\n\nIgnace Ziadé was born in the Mount Lebanon Governorate, in the resort Harharaya, located in the district of Keserwan (where Jounieh is located).\n\nZiadé was, at the age of 23 years on 26 May 1929 in Syria, consecrated to the priesthood.\n\nOn April 27, 1946 he was appointed Bishop of the Maronite Catholic Archeparchy of Aleppo, in the same Syrian city of Aleppo. His episcopal ordination was celebrated on November 24, 1946 by Maronite Patriarch of Antioch Anthony Peter Arida, and his co-consecrators were François Ayoub, Archeparch of Cyprus and Pietro Dib, Eparch of Cairo. On 26 January 1952 Ziadé was appointed and installed as Maronite Archbishop of Beirut. At the age of 80 years Ignace Ziadé presented on April 4, 1986 his resign as archbishop.\n\nAs emeritus Archbishop Ignace Ziadé died at the age of 88 years, on 31 March 1994 in Beirut. Ziadé had been for 65 years as Maronite priest and bishop for 47 years. In these decades of his pastoral ministry, he served as co-consecrator of Elie Farah, Abdallah Bared, Antoine Torbey, Paul-Emile Saadé, and Bechara Boutros al-Rahi.\n\n"}
{"id": "18065509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18065509", "title": "International Speakers Bureau", "text": "International Speakers Bureau\n\nInternational Speakers Bureau is a Dallas, Texas-based speakers bureau specializing in motivational speakers, corporate entertainment and corporate training.\n\nInternational Speakers Bureau was founded in 1992 by Michelle Lemmons-Poscente, who started the business in a spare bedroom in her parent’s home and eventually landed her first booking of the late Charles Kuralt a few months later.\n\nIn 1993, Lemmons-Poscente moved her offices to Dallas and began to expand the business. The company grew quickly in large part due to Lemmons-Poscente's early adoption of the Internet. In 1997, the company was recognized as one of the top female-run businesses in Texas and also partnered with Yahoo! to create Mentorium, an early attempt at interactive online learning.\n\nIn 2000, the company won the Sprint #1 Small Business in America award and was recognized by Bank One as one of the top female-owned businesses in the United States.\n\nInternational Speakers Bureau filed for bankruptcy in 2013 in the state of Texas.\n"}
{"id": "168478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168478", "title": "Itzhak Perlman", "text": "Itzhak Perlman\n\nItzhak Perlman (; born 31 August 1945) is an Israeli-American violinist, conductor, and music teacher. Over the course of his career, Perlman has performed worldwide, and throughout the United States, in venues that have included a State Dinner at the White House honoring Queen Elizabeth II, and at the Presidential Inauguration of President Obama, and he has conducted the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, and the Westchester Philharmonic. In 2015, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.\n\nPerlman was born in Tel Aviv in 1945, then British Mandate of Palestine, now Israel. His parents, Chaim and Shoshana Perlman, were natives of Poland and had independently immigrated to Palestine in the mid-1930s before they met and later married.\n\nPerlman first became interested in the violin after hearing a classical music performance on the radio. At the age of three, he was denied admission to the Shulamit Conservatory for being too small to hold a violin. He instead taught himself how to play the instrument using a toy fiddle until he was old enough to study with Rivka Goldgart at the Shulamit Conservatory and at the Academy of Music in Tel Aviv, where he gave his first recital at age 10. He moved to the United States to study at the Juilliard School with the violin pedagogue Ivan Galamian and his assistant Dorothy DeLay.\n\nPerlman contracted polio at age four and has walked using leg braces and crutches since then and plays the violin while seated. , he uses crutches or an electric Amigo scooter for mobility.\n\nPerlman appeared on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" twice in 1958, and again in 1964, on the same show with the Rolling Stones. He made his debut at Carnegie Hall in 1963 and won the Leventritt Competition in 1964. Soon afterward, he began to tour widely. In addition to an extensive recording and performance career, he has continued to make guest appearances on American television shows such as \"The Tonight Show\" and \"Sesame Street\" as well as playing at a number of functions at the White House.\n\nAlthough he has never been billed or marketed as a singer, he sang the role of \"Un carceriere\" (\"a jailer\") on a 1981 EMI recording of Puccini's \"Tosca\" that featured Renata Scotto, Plácido Domingo, and Renato Bruson, with James Levine conducting. He had earlier sung the role in an excerpt from the opera on a 1980 Pension Fund Benefit Concert telecast as part of the Live from Lincoln Center series with Luciano Pavarotti as Cavaradossi and Zubin Mehta conducting the New York Philharmonic.\n\nOn 5 July 1986, he performed on the New York Philharmonic's tribute to the 100th anniversary of the Statue of Liberty, which was televised live on ABC Television in the United States. The orchestra, conducted by Zubin Mehta, performed in Central Park.\n\nIn 1987, he joined the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra (IPO) for their concerts in Warsaw and Budapest as well as other cities in Eastern bloc countries. He toured with the IPO in the spring of 1990 for its first-ever performance in the Soviet Union, with concerts in Moscow and Leningrad, and toured with the IPO again in 1994, performing in China and India.\n\nIn 2015 on a classical music program entitled \"The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center\" produced by WQXR in New York City, it was revealed that Perlman performed the uncredited violin solo on the 1989 Billy Joel song The Downeaster Alexa.\n\nWhile primarily a solo artist, Perlman has performed with a number of other musicians, including Yo-Yo Ma, Pinchas Zukerman, Jessye Norman, Isaac Stern, and Yuri Temirkanov at the 150th anniversary celebration of Tchaikovsky in Leningrad in December 1990. He has also performed and recorded with his friend and fellow Israeli violinist Pinchas Zukerman on numerous occasions over the years.\n\nAs well as playing and recording the classical music for which he is best known, Perlman has also played jazz, including an album made with jazz pianist Oscar Peterson, and in addition, klezmer. Perlman has been a soloist for a number of film scores such as the theme of the 1993 film \"Schindler's List\" by John Williams, which subsequently won an Academy Award for Best Original Score. More recently, he was the violin soloist for the 2005 film \"Memoirs of a Geisha\" along with cellist Yo-Yo Ma. Perlman played selections from the musical scores of the movies nominated for \"Best Original Score\" at the 73rd Academy Awards with Yo-Yo Ma and at the 78th Academy Awards. \n\nPerlman played at the state dinner attended by Queen Elizabeth II on 7 May 2007, in the East Room at the White House.\n\nHe performed John Williams's \"Air and Simple Gifts\" at the 2009 inauguration ceremony for Barack Obama along with Yo-Yo Ma (cello), Gabriela Montero (piano), and Anthony McGill (clarinet). While the quartet did play live, the music played simultaneously over speakers and on television was a recording made two days prior due to concerns over the cold weather damaging the instruments. Perlman was quoted as saying: \"It would have been a disaster if we had done it any other way.\"\n\nHe made an appearance in Disney's Fantasia 2000 to introduce the segment Pines of Rome along with Steve Martin.\n\nOn 2 November 2018, Perlman reprised the 60th anniversary of his first appearance on the Ed Sullivan Show as a guest on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.\n\nIn 1975, Perlman accepted a faculty post at the Conservatory of Music at Brooklyn College. In 2003, Mr. Perlman was named the holder of the Dorothy Richard Starling Foundation Chair in Violin Studies at the Juilliard School, succeeding his teacher, Dorothy DeLay. He also currently teaches students one-on-one at the Perlman Music Program on Long Island, NY, rarely holding master classes.\n\nThe Perlman music program, founded in 1995 by Toby Perlman and Suki Sandler, started as a summer camp for exceptional string musicians between the ages of 11 and 18. Over time, it expanded to a year-long program. Students have the chance to have Itzhak Perlman himself coach them before they play at venues such as the Sutton Place Synagogue and public schools. By introducing students to each other and requiring them to practice together, the program strives to have musicians who would otherwise practice alone and develop a network of friends and colleagues. Rather than remain isolated, participants in the program find an area where they belong.\n\nAt the beginning of the new millennium, Perlman began to conduct. He took the post of principal guest conductor at the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. He served as music advisor to the Saint Louis Symphony Orchestra from 2002 to 2004. In November 2007, the Westchester Philharmonic announced the appointment of Perlman as artistic director and principal conductor. His first concert in these roles was on 11 October 2008, in an all-Beethoven program featuring pianist Leon Fleisher performing the Emperor Concerto.\n\nPerlman plays the \"Soil Stradivarius\" violin of 1714, formerly owned by Yehudi Menuhin and considered one of the finest violins made during Stradivari's \"golden period.\" Perlman also plays the Guarneri del Gesu 1743 'Sauret' and the Carlo Bergonzi 1740 'ex-Kreisler'.\n\nPerlman resides in New York City with his wife, Toby, also a classically trained violinist. They have five children: Noah, Navah, Leora, Rami, and Ariella. Perlman is a distant cousin of Canadian comic and TV personality Howie Mandel.\n\n\nWith Andre Previn\n\nWith Oscar Peterson\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28972206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28972206", "title": "Jamaicans", "text": "Jamaicans\n\nJamaicans are the citizens of Jamaica and their descendants in the Jamaican diaspora. Most Jamaicans are of African descent, with smaller minorities of Europeans, East Indians, Chinese and others or mixed ancestry. The bulk of the Jamaican diaspora resides in other Anglophone countries, namely Australia, Canada, United States and the United Kingdom and, to a lesser extent, other Caribbean countries and Commonwealth realms.\n\nAccording to the official Jamaica Population Census of 1970, ethnic origins categories in Jamaica include Black, East Indian, Chinese, Syrian or Lebanese, White, mixed, and other races. Jamaicans of African or partial African descent made up 89.4% of the working population. Those of non-African mixed race were the second most prominent labour group, making up 6% of the population.\n\nMany Jamaicans now live overseas and outside Jamaica, while many have migrated to Anglophone countries, including over 400,000 Jamaicans in the United Kingdom, over 300,000 Canada, 800,000 in the United States.\n\n30,000 Jamaicans residing in other CARICOM member including the Bahamas (5,600), Cuba (5,000), Antigua & Barbuda, Barbados and Trinidad & Tobago. There are also communities of Jamaican descendants in Central America, particularly Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Panama.\n\n"}
{"id": "5349061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5349061", "title": "James W. Ford", "text": "James W. Ford\n\nJames W. “Jim” Ford (December 22, 18931957) was an activist and politician, the Vice-Presidential candidate for the Communist Party USA in 1932, 1936, and 1940. A party organizer born in Alabama and living in New York City, Ford was the first African American to run on a presidential ticket in the 20th century.\n\nJames W. Ford was born in Pratt City, Alabama on December 22, 1893, the son of Lymon Forsch and his wife. His father, a former resident of Gainesville, Georgia, had come to Alabama in the 1890s to work in the coal mines and steel mills. He worked for 35 years as a coal miner for the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company. James' mother earned additional money for the family as a domestic worker.\n\nFord got his first job at age 13 working on a railroad track at Enslay, Alabama. He later worked as a blacksmith's helper at a steel plant, a machinist's helper, and as a laborer at a blast furnace. Ford worked his way through high school before attending Fisk University.\n\nA few months before graduation in 1917, Ford enlisted in the U.S. Army in support of the American war effort in World War I. He entered the signal corps in charge of communications for the 86th Brigade of the 92nd Division in France. At the end of the war, Ford was discharged from the Army and returned to civilian life.\n\nFord returned to an America in which a black man with telecommunications skills was deemed unemployable in his profession because of racism. Many veterans had difficulty finding work soon after the war. Ford ended up taking a job as an unskilled laborer at a mattress factory in Chicago.\n\nFord landed a job working for the United States Post Office as a parcel post dispatcher, joining the Union of Post Office Workers at that same time. Ford became active in his union local, activity which put him into contact with the Communist Party for the first time. This union activity in consort with radicals seems to have brought Ford to the attention of his superiors, and he was ultimately fired from his post office job.\n\nIn 1925, Ford was recruited into the Chicago section of the American Negro Labor Congress (ANLC), established by the Communist Party as a mass organization of black workers. The next year Ford joined the Workers (Communist) Party of America itself.\n\nAs there were few African-American members of the Communist Party in this period, Ford quickly gained recognition as one of the leading black communists in the nation. In 1928 Ford was sent to the Soviet Union to represent the American Communist Party at the 4th World Congress of the Red International of Labor Unions (RILU), held in Moscow during March and April. He was elected to the RILU Secretariat. Ford did not immediately return to the United States, instead remaining in Moscow to work on RILU matters as a full-time functionary.\n\nIn August 1928, Ford attended the 6th World Congress of the Communist International on behalf of the American Communist Party, where he was elected to the Comintern's Negro Commission. Ford was also elected a delegate to the 1929 World Congress of the League Against Imperialism, which met in Hamburg, Germany. In July 1929, Ford attended the 10th Enlarged Plenum of the Executive Committee of the Communist International (ECCI), at which he delivered two speeches. Later that month, Ford attended the 2nd Congress of the League Against Imperialism, where he was elected to the General Council and the Executive Committee.\n\nDuring the ultra-radical \"Third Period\" (1929–1933), many in the Comintern advocated that the American Communist Party launch the controversial slogan \"Self-determination for the Black Belt\" — a call for \"de facto\" or even \"de jure\" sovereignty of the broad swath of the American South in which black Americans constituted a demographic majority. Ford considered the question of whether American blacks constituted an “oppressed nationality” to be a largely academic matter, in view of the exceedingly limited contact which the Communist Party had with the black community. The supporters of the ultra-radical idea of \"self-determination\" for the black people as an \"oppressed nationality\" (as opposed to fighting for equal rights for an \"oppressed racial minority\" of Americans) won the day. Thereafter Ford dutifully spoke out on behalf of independence of the American black belt, in accord with the new party line. Within the Black Belt region, most African Americans were more concerned with getting aid for their daily lives: help with evictions, jobs, services, and civil rights.\n\nIn 1930 Ford organized the Comintern-sponsored 1st International Conference of Negro Workers in Hamburg, where he was elected as Secretary of the short-lived International Trade Union Committee for Black Workers as well as editor of its journal, \"The Negro Worker.\" There he was supplied with a young mistress (an agent of the Soviet GPU) and a monthly pension from Soviet intelligence. While in Hamburg, Ford participated in distributing copies of \"The Negro Worker\" via couriers to sailors on ships headed to British possessions, including Jamaica and the Union of South Africa. In response to an official protest lodged by the British government, German police raided Ford's headquarters in Hamburg. After a botched attempt to escape by bicycle, Ford was arrested in a glare of publicity, and was summarily relieved of his political post with the Comintern.\n\nFord returned to the United States in 1930. He assumed the role of Vice President of the League of Struggle for Negro Rights, the organizational successor to ANLC. In 1932 Ford was elected to the governing Political Buro of the CPUSA. He had become a top political leader of the Communist Party USA.\n\nIn 1932 the CPUSA nominated Ford as its candidate for Vice President of the United States, running on the ticket with Presidential nominee William Z. Foster; this increased his national recognition. He was the first African American to run on a presidential ticket. The placing of a black man near the top of the Communist ticket was symbolic of the party's self-declared commitment to racial equality and its commitment to advance blacks to its own leadership.\n\nHistorian Mark Solomon notes that this was part of a broader campaign:\nIn all, the Foster-Ford ticket tallied 102,991 votes in 1932 — a tiny total but a major step forward when gauged against the organization's performance during its first two electoral efforts in 1924 and 1928.\n\nIn 1933 Ford was made the new head of the Harlem Section of the Communist Party in New York City. This was intended both to tighten party discipline in the organization and to lessen the influence of the more freewheeling, nationalist-inclined agitators such as Cyril Briggs and Richard B. Moore. The ultra-left “Third Period” slogan of “Self-determination for the Black Belt” was drawing to a close, in favor of a new effort to build bridges with liberals and fighting for the solution of practical problems through the New Deal. The Harlem Communists sought to join with church and civic groups in a “Provisional Committee against Discrimination” in an effort to eliminate racism in job hiring and firing. Building the so-called “Popular Front” would be the new slogan of the day.\n\nOn March 19, 1935, Harlem was torn by a riot, caused when a manager at a Kress store on 125th Street grabbed a black teenager for allegedly stealing a knife. The boy was dragged into the basement by police before being released through a back door. Black customers believed the boy was being beaten, however, and a rumor started to spread that the boy had been killed. An angry crowd formed, a rock was thrown through the chain store window, and police broke up the spontaneous street meeting that had developed. Within an hour, not a window was left intact on 125th Street and rampant looting had broken out. In the end, one African American was killed, several others injured, and more than 200 were jailed in the so-called \"Harlem Race Riot.\"\n\nWhile the immediate response of the press was to blame the Communists for fomenting racial unrest, two months of hearings followed in which Ford's Harlem Section of the Communist Party was able to highlight the area’s economic and social plight. The Communist Party established connections with a number of the area's labor, religious, and political leaders in the aftermath of the March 19th event.\n\nAs historian Mark Naison notes:\nIn the summer of 1935 Ford was sent by the CPUSA to the 7th World Congress of the Comintern as a delegate, where he was elected an alternate member of ECCI. In 1936, Ford was nominated on the CPUSA’s ticket as its Vice Presidential candidate, running this time with the CPUSA's General Secretary, Earl Browder.\n\nFord traveled to Spain in 1937 along with other American Communists in support of the Republican forces in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nIn 1940 the Communist Party supported the Browder/Ford ticket again, the third and final time James Ford appeared in that capacity.\n\nEarl Browder, reading too much into the dissolution of the Communist International in May 1943 and the wartime alliance of the Soviet Union with America, dissolved the Communist Party in 1944. He replaced it with a \"Communist Political Association\" in an effort to make the organization more mainstream within the United States. James Ford was chosen as the Vice President of this new formation. When in April 1945 Moscow signaled its intense displeasure in the decision to dissolve the Communist Party, Browder was cashiered, and expelled from the reconstituted party in July. Although Ford made a public self-criticism of his alleged errors, he was demoted from the top echelon of Communist Party leaders. He was not re-elected to the National Committee of the party and was supplanted in his \"de facto\" role as “America's leading black Communist” by Benjamin J. Davis.\n\nFord was not targeted by the US Department of Justice in its 1948 prosecution of the top leadership of the CPUSA.\n\nJames Ford died in 1957.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44602617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44602617", "title": "Jane Elizabeth Leslie, 12th Countess of Rothes", "text": "Jane Elizabeth Leslie, 12th Countess of Rothes\n\nJane Elizabeth Leslie, 12th Countess of Rothes (5 May 1750 – 1810) was a Scottish noblewoman. She succeeded her brother in 1773 in the peerage and estates of Rothes, and effectually vindicated her right to the estates against the claim of her uncle, both in the Court of Session and the House of Lords.\n\nShe was twice married, first in 1766, to George Raymond Evelyn, youngest son of William Evelyn Glanville of St Clere, Kent, and secondly, in 1772, to Sir Lucas Pepys, Baronet, uncle of the first Earl of Cottenham. To both she had issue, and dying in 1810, was succeeded by the only surviving son of her first marriage, George William, 13th Earl of Rothes.\n"}
{"id": "13841660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13841660", "title": "Johann Jakob Bernhardi", "text": "Johann Jakob Bernhardi\n\nJohann Jakob Bernhardi (1 September 1774 in Erfurt – 13 May 1850 in Erfurt) was a German doctor and botanist.\n\nJohann J. Bernhardi studied Medicine and Botany at the University of Erfurt, and after graduation practiced medicine for a time in his native city. In 1799 he was named director of the botanical garden at \"Gartenstraße\", and in 1809 was appointed professor of botany, zoology, mineralogy and materia medica at the university. He served as director of the botanical garden until his death in 1850, being buried in the central avenue of this botanical garden.\n\nThroughout his life thanks to acquisitions and interchanges with other botanists, he assembled a considerable herbarium of 60,000 plants with specimens from North America, South America, Asia, and Africa. After his death this herbarium did not remain in Germany but due to the efforts of George Engelmann, who, in 1857, shortly after the death of Bernhardi bought the complete herbarium for the amount of 600 dollars for Henry Shaw, founder of the Botanical Garden of Missouri in the U.S.A., forms the nucleus of the collection and the initial museum of this Botanical Garden (at the moment the \"Missouri Botanical Garden herbarium\" contains over 6.2 million specimens and the library over 120,000 volumes).\n\nJohann J. Bernhardi studied and described several species of orchids, including \"Epipactis atrorubens\". He described a species of rose without thorns, \"Rosa × francofurtana\", found in the garden of the house of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in Weimar. The genus \"Bernhardia\" (family Psilotaceae) is named in his honor.\n\nHe was editor of the \"Thüringischen Gartenzeitung\" (Thuringian garden newspaper) and the \"Allgemeinen deutschen Gartenmagazin\" (General German garden magazine). The thoroughfare, \"Jacob-Bernhardi-Straße\" in Erfurt, is named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "38890683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38890683", "title": "Kelly Mantle", "text": "Kelly Mantle\n\nKelly Mantle (born July 9, 1976) is an American actor, singer/songwriter, comedian, musician, drag queen and reality television personality. Mantle appeared as a contestant on the sixth season of the reality TV show \"RuPaul's Drag Race\".\n\nMantle was born in Oklahoma City but grew up in Cordell, Oklahoma.\n\nMantle's uncle was professional baseball player Mickey Mantle, who played for the New York Yankees. Mantle graduated with a BFA in Theatre from the University of Oklahoma.\n\nAfter college, Mantle went to Chicago to begin a career as an actor. He acted in plays such as \"The Convention\" and \"Royal Flush\". \"Lone Star/Laundry & Bourbon\" was the first production by OKRA Theatre, a theater company started by Mantle and his friend Tracy Parks, who directed the play.\n\nIn 1998, Mantle starred in the Chicago production of Charles Busch's play \"Vampire Lesbians of Sodom\". After two years of living in Chicago, he moved to Los Angeles. He later auditioned for the Los Angeles production of \"Vampire Lesbians of Sodom\", where he were scouted and signed by a talent agent.\n\nIn Los Angeles, Mantle became a member of the band \"Sex with Lurch\", which was formed by singer Robbie Quinne and guitarist Bernard Yin. As part of the group, Mantle used the stage name \"Brandy Warhol\". The group disbanded in December 2002. Mantle later joined Quinne's follow-up band, the Barbarellatones.\n\nMantle was also a member of the band Tranzkuntinental. The band was started by Charlie Paulson and Xander Smith and features drag queens Detox, Rhea Litré, Vicky Vox, and Willam Belli.\n\nCurrently, Mantle is a member of the band the Rollz Royces with Tammie Brown and Michael Catti. Mantle and Catti have appeared in Tammie Brown's Christmas show Holiday Sparkle at Fubar in West Hollywood.\n\nIn 2014 Mantle starred in \"Confessions of a Womanizer\" with Gary Busey. The film was released in 2016. Mantle, who is genderfluid, made history when the film's producers sought both supporting actor and supporting actress consideration for his performance and The Academy granted the request.\n\nIn December 2013, Logo announced that Mantle was among fourteen drag queens who would be competing on the sixth season of \"RuPaul's Drag Race\". She was eliminated in the first episode, lip-synching to Express Yourself against Vivacious.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24126182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24126182", "title": "List of Miss International titleholders", "text": "List of Miss International titleholders\n\nThe following is a list of women who have won the Miss International title.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44546316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44546316", "title": "Liu Congxiao", "text": "Liu Congxiao\n\nLiu Congxiao (; 906-962), formally the Prince of Jinjiang (), was a general of the Chinese Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period state Min. After Min's fall, he initially submitted to Southern Tang (which had conquered Min), but eventually, taking advantage of Southern Tang's inability to fully control the region, took the southern part of the former Min realm under his own control, albeit in nominal submission to Southern Tang. After Southern Tang's repeated defeats by Later Zhou, he also nominally submitted to Later Zhou's successor state Song.\n\nLiu Congxiao was born in 906, at the very end of the Tang dynasty. He was from Yongchn (永春, in modern Quanzhou, Fujian), which was known as Taolin (桃林) early in his lifetime. His father Liu Zhang (留璋) died in his youth, and he became known for serving his mother and older brother piously. He was said to be somewhat educated in literature, and was a particularly avid reader of military strategies.\n\nAs of 944, Liu Congxiao was serving as an army officer in the army of his home prefecture Quan Prefecture (泉州, in modern Quanzhou). By that time, the state that Quan had been ruled by, Min, ruled by the imperial Wang family, had been broken apart by civil war and political strife—and now was under the reign of the usurper general Zhu Wenjin (who had assassinated the emperor Wang Xi (Emperor Jingzong), with Zhu's hold on the throne being Min contested by Wang Xi's brother Wang Yanzheng, who had earlier declared himself emperor of a breakaway state of Yin.\n\nAfter seizing the Min throne, Zhu sent the general Huang Shaopo (黃紹頗) to Quan to serve as its prefect. Liu, however, was discontented, and he stated to his colleagues Wang Zhongshun (王忠順), Dong Si'an (董思安), and Zhang Hansi:\n\nHis colleagues agreed. In winter 944, they held a feast at Liu's house, and they gathered the soldiers below them whom they deemed reliable and strong. Liu spoke to them and stated (falsely, as it stood):\n\nThe soldiers became roused by his words and followed him in attacking Huang. They climbed over the walls of the headquarters and killed Huang. Liu then took the prefectural government seal and presented it to Wang Jixun (王繼勳), a nephew of Wang Yanzheng's who resided at Quan, asking Wang Jixun to serve as acting prefect. Liu himself took the title of \"Commander of the Army Against the Bandits\" (平賊統軍使). He boxed Huang's head and had the officer Chen Hongjin deliver it to Wang Yanzheng's capital Jian Prefecture (建州, in modern Nanping, Fujian). Wang Yanzheng commissioned Wang Jixun to be the prefect of Quan, and Liu, Wang Zhongshun, Dong, and Chen to be commanders of the army.\n\nHearing of Huang's death, Zhu sent the generals Lin Shouliang (林守諒) and Li Ting'e (李廷鍔) to attack Quan. Wang Yanzheng, hearing the news, sent the general Du Jin (杜進) to aid the Quan army. However, even before Du arrived, Liu led the Quan army and engaged Zhu's army, killing Lin in battle and capturing Li. Subsequently, Zhu was assassinated by his officer Li Renhan (李仁翰), who surrendered Fu to Wang Yanzheng, who then took the title of Emperor of Min. However, a subsequent rebellion led by Li Renda at Fu wrested that region away from Wang Yanzheng, and Wang Yanzheng's capital Jian Prefecture then came under attack by the Southern Tang general Cha Wenhui (查文徽). During the Jian siege, Wang Yanzheng ordered Quan to send a 5,000-men detachment to Jian to help defend the city; that detachment was commanded by Dong and Wang Zhongshun.\n\nIn fall 945, Jian fell to Southern Tang forces, and Wang Yanzheng surrendered. (Wang Zhongshun died in the battle, and Dong Si'an took the remnants of his army and fled back to Quan.) Initially, virtually the entire former Min domain submitted to Southern Tang's emperor Li Jing, including even Li Renda, who, however, continued to hold actual control of the Fu region. In spring 946, Liu Congxiao, alleging that, given the threats posed by Li Renda's army and that Wang Jixun was alienating the Quan soldiers by improper rewards and punishments, forced him to yield the command to Liu himself. Liu himself then attacked and defeated Li Renda in a battle, and then reported the news of the victory to Li Jing. Li Jing summoned Wang Jixun to the Southern Tang capital Jinling and commissioned Liu as the prefect of Quan, but also sent a detachment to Quan, apparently to both help defend it and to watch over Liu.\n\nIn fall 946, the Zhang Prefecture (漳州, in modern Zhangzhou, Fujian) officer Lin Zanyao (林贊堯) rebelled against Southern Tang and killed the general Chen Hui (陳誨), whom Li Jing had sent to Zhang, and Chen's monitor of the army Zhou Chengyi (周承義). Liu launched an army and expelled Lin from Zhang; he had Dong take over Zhang. Li Jing then commissioned Dong as the prefect of Zhang. (After Dong declined the position on grounds of naming taboo—because his father was named Dong Zhang (董章)—Li Jing renamed the prefecture Nan Prefecture (南州), and so Dong accepted.)\n\nMeanwhile, Li Renda had refused to yield actual control of Fu, leading to a Southern Tang expedition against him, commanded by the general Wang Chongwen (王崇文). Li Renda sought aid from Wuyue's king Qian Hongzuo. Meanwhile, Li Jing ordered Dong and Liu to lead forces to reinforce Wang Chongwen. It was said, though, that partly as a result of that, Wang's army was bogged down and unable to siege the city effectively—as both Liu and Wang Jianfeng (王建封) were arrogant and not following Wang Chongwen's orders, while the civilian officials Chen Jue, Feng Yanlu, and Wei Cen (魏岑) were also disrupting Wang Chongwen's command structure. In spring 947, the joint forces of Li Renda and Wuyue defeated the Southern Tang siege army, which then scattered—apparently, as a result of both Liu and Wang Jianfeng not wanting to see the army regroup and take Fu—ending Southern Tang's attempt to take actual control over Fu.\n\nLiu returned to Quan, and then held a feast for the commanding general of the Southern Tang detachment, stating to him:\n\nSeeing that Liu was effectively wanting to chase him out, the Southern Tang general found no choice but to take his army and leave Quan. Li Jing could not think of a way to control Liu, and therefore had to be content with keeping him nominally as a subject, and granted him the honorary title of acting \"Taifu\" (太傅).\n\nIn 949, Liu's older brother Liu Congyuan (留從願), who was serving as Dong's deputy at Nan (Zhang), poisoned Dong to death and took over the control of the prefecture. Li Jing, finding no good way to deal with the situation, established a Qingyuan Circuit with its headquarters at Quan, and made Liu its military governor (\"Jiedushi\"). Not long after, he granted Liu honorary chancellor designations, and created him the Duke of E. Later, that title was upgraded to Prince of Jinjiang.\n\nLiu was said to be frugal and hardworking as the ruler of the region. He usually wore civilian clothes, and placed his prefect uniform on at the door of his headquarters, putting it on only when he was to hear official matters and taking it off whenever unnecessary, to show humility and attentiveness to his civilian origin. Wang Yanzheng had two daughters who lived at Quan because they had married men from there, and Liu honored and treated them well. He also made sure that each year, knowledgeable individuals were selected for the imperial examinations.\n\nIn 958, during a campaign that Southern Tang's northern neighbor Later Zhou was waging against Southern Tang, Liu had his officer Cai Zhongyun (蔡仲贇), disguised as a merchant, travel to Later Zhou to submit a petition to be the subject of Later Zhou's emperor Guo Rong. However, soon the war ended (with Li Jing ceding the territory north of the Yangtze River to Later Zhou and submitting to Guo as a subject), and when Liu submitted another petition, asking to establish a liaison office at Later Zhou's capital Kaifeng and directly submitting to Later Zhou. Guo, citing the fact that Li Jing had already submitted and that Liu had been a long-time Southern Tang subject, refused, instead encouraging him to remain faithful to Li Jing.\n\nIn 960, the Later Zhou general Zhao Kuangyin seized the throne from Guo Rong's son and successor Guo Zongxun, ending Later Zhou and starting a new Song dynasty as its Emperor Taizu. Later in the year, Liu Congxiao submitted a petition to the new Song emperor, offering to be a subject, and thereafter offered tributes. Around the same time, though, Li Jing, while also offering to be a Song vassal but fearing the possibility of Song military action against Southern Tang, decided to move his capital from Jinling to Nanchang, and did so in 961. Liu, however, thought that movement of the capital was targeting him and feared a Southern Tang campaign against him, and therefore sent his nephew Liu Shaoji (留紹錤) to offer tributes to Li, while at the same time continued to send tributes to the Song emperor through Wuyue. The Song emperor sent an emissary, intending to comfort him, but before the emissary could arrive in Liu's territory, Liu had died from a tumor on his back, apparently in 962. Li Jing's son and successor Li Yu bestowed posthumous honors on him.\n\nAs Liu Congxiao was sonless, he adopted both Liu Shaoji and another nephew, Liu Shaozi (both of them biological sons of Liu Congyuan) as his sons. The \"Xu Zizhi Tongjian\" indicated that after his death, as Liu Shaoji was at the Southern Tang court, Liu Shaozi took over as acting military governor, but was soon seized by the officer Chen Hongjin, who falsely accused Liu Shaozi of wanting to submit to Wuyue and delivered Liu Shaozi to Southern Tang, while supporting Zhang Hansi as the new acting military governor. Liu Congxiao's biography in the \"History of Song\", however, gave a different account—that the coup took place while Liu Congxiao was ill but before his death—but its biography of Chen gave the same account as the \"Xu Zizhi Tongjian\" (i.e., the coup was during Liu Shaozi's rule).\n\n"}
{"id": "630081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630081", "title": "Mahavatar Babaji", "text": "Mahavatar Babaji\n\nMahāvatār Bābājī (literally; Great Avatar (Revered) Father or Elder or Wise) is the name given to an Indian saint and yogi by Yogiraj Lahiri Mahasaya, \nand several of his disciples, who reported meeting him between 1861, 1935 and 1980. Some of these meetings were described by Paramahansa Yogananda in his book \"Autobiography of a Yogi\", including a first-hand report of Yogananda's own meeting with the yogi. Another first hand account was given by Sri Yukteswar Giri in his book \"The Holy Science\". According to Sri M's autobiography (Apprenticed to a Himalayan Master), Babaji was Lord Shiva. In the second last chapter of his book, he mentions Babaji changing his form to that of Lord Shiva. All of these accounts, along with additional reported meetings, are described in various biographies. According to Yogananda's autobiography, Babaji has resided for at least hundreds of years in the remote Himalayan regions of India, seen in person by only a small number of disciples and others. \n\nAgain, according to his autobiography, shortly before Yogananda left for America in 1920, Babaji came to his home in Calcutta, where Yogananda sat deeply praying for divine assurance regarding the mission he was about to undertake. Babaji said to him: \"Follow the behest of your guru and go to America. Fear not; you shall be protected. You are the one I have chosen to spread the message of Kriya Yoga in the West.\"\n\nThere are very few accounts of Babaji's childhood. One source of information is the book \"Babaji and the 18 Siddha Kriya Yoga tradition\" by Marshal Govindan. According to Govindan, Babaji was named Nagarajan (king of serpents) by his parents. V.T. Neelakantan and S.A.A. Ramaiah founded on 17 October 1952, (they claim – at the request of Babaji) a new organization, \"Kriya Babaji Sangah,\" dedicated to the teaching of Babaji's Kriya Yoga. They claim that in 1953 Mahavatar Babaji told them that he was born on 30 November 203 CE in a small coastal village now known as Parangipettai, Cuddalore district of Tamil Nadu, India. Babaji's Kriya Yoga Order of Acharyas Trust (Kriya Babaji Sangah) and their branch organizations claim his place and date of birth. He was a disciple of Bogar and his birth name is Nagarajan.\n\nIn Paramahansa Yogananda's \"Autobiography of a Yogi\", many references are made to Mahavatar Babaji, including from Lahirī Mahasaya and Sri Yukteswar.\nIn his book \"The Second Coming of Christ\", Yogananda states that Jesus Christ went to India and conferred with Mahavatar Babaji. This would make Babaji at least 2000 years old.\nAccording to Govindan's book, Babaji Nagaraj's father was the priest of the village's temple. Babaji revealed only those details which he believed to be formative as well as potentially instructive to his disciples. Govindan mentioned one incident like this: \"One time Nagaraj's mother had got one rare jackfruit for a family feast and put it aside. Babaji was only 4 years old at that time. He found the jackfruit when his mother was not around and ate it all. When his mother came to know about it, she flew in blind rage and stuffed a cloth inside Babaji's mouth, nearly suffocating him, but he survived. Later on he thanked God for showing him that she was to be loved without attachment or illusion. His Love for his mother became unconditional and detached.\"\n\nWhen Nagaraj was about 5 years old, someone kidnapped him and sold him as a slave in Calcutta (now Kolkata). His new owner however was a kind man and he freed Nagaraj shortly thereafter. Nagaraj then joined a small group of wandering sannyāsin due to their radiant faces and love for God. During the next few years, he wandered from place to place, studying holy scriptures like the Vedas, Upanishad, Mahabharata, Ramayana, Bhagavad Gita.\n\nAccording to Marshall Govindan's book, at the age of eleven, he made a difficult journey on foot and by boat with a group of ascetics to Kataragama, Sri Lanka. Nagaraj met Siddha Bhogarnathar and became his disciple. Nagaraj performed intensive yogic sadhana for a long time with him. Bhogarnathar inspired Nagaraj to seek his initiation into Kriya Kundalini Pranayam from Siddha Maharshi Agastya. Babaji became a disciple of Siddha Agastya. Nagaraj was initiated into the secrets of Kriya Kundalini Pranayama or \"Vasi Yogam\". Babaji made a long pilgrimage to Badrinath and spent eighteen months practising yogic kriya taught to him by Siddha Agastya and Bhogarnathar. Babaji attained self-realization shortly thereafter.\n\nIt is claimed that these revelations were made by Babaji himself to S.A.A. Ramaiah, a young graduate student in geology at the University of Madras and V.T. Neelakantan, a famous journalist, and close student of Annie Besant, President of the Theosophical Society and mentor of Krishnamurti. Babaji was said to have appeared to each of them independently and then brought them together to work for his Mission in 1942.\n\nThe first reported encounter with Mahavatar Babaji was in 1861, when Shyāmacharan Lahirī (called \"Mahāsaya\" by disciples, devotees, and admirers) was posted to Ranikhet in his work as an accountant for the British government. One day while walking in the hills of Dunagiri above Ranikhet, he heard a voice calling his name. Following the voice up the mountain, he met a \"tall, divinely radiant sadhu.\" He was amazed to find that the sadhu knew his name. This sadhu was Mahavatar Babaji.\n\nMahavatar Babaji told Lahirī that he was his guru from the past, then initiated him into Kriya Yoga and instructed Lahiri to initiate others. Lahiri wanted to remain with Mahavatar Babaji, who told him instead that he must return to the world to teach Kriya Yoga and that \"Kriya Yoga sadhana would spread through the people of the world through his (Lahiri's) presence in the world.\"\n\nLahirī reported that Mahavatar Babaji did not give his name or background, so Lahiri gave him the title \"Mahavatar Babaji.\" Many sadhus in India are called Babaji, and sometimes even \"Babaji Maharaj\", which has caused confusion between Mahavatar Babaji and other sadhus with similar names.\n\nLahirī had many meetings with Mahavatar Babaji, recounted in several books, including Paramhansa Yogananda's \"Autobiography of a Yogi\", \"Yogiraj Shyama Charan Lahiri Mahasaya\" (Lahiri's biography), and \"Purana Purusha: Yogiraj Sri Shama Churn Lahiri\", among others.\n\nThere are references to Sri Lahiri Mahasaya in Sampoorna Sripada Vallabha Charitam as guru to Sri Shirdi Saibaba, who initiated him to kriya yoga.\n\nSeveral disciples of Shyāmacharan Lahirī also reported having met Babaji. Through discussion with each other, and the fact that some of these encounters included two or more witnesses, they confirmed that the person they saw was the same sadhu that Lahirī called Mahavatar Babaji.\n\nAt the 1894 Kumbha Mela in Allahabad, Yukteswar Giri, a disciple of Lahirī, met Mahavatar Babaji. He was struck by the resemblance between Lahirī and Mahavatar Babaji. Others who met Babaji also commented on the resemblance. It was at this meeting that Mahavatar Babaji instructed Sri Yukteswar to write the book that was to become \"Kaivalya Darshanam\", or \"The Holy Science\". Yukteswar had two more meetings with Mahavatar Babaji, including one in the presence of Lahiri Mahasaya.\n\nPranabananda Giri, another disciple of Lahirī, also met Mahavatar Babaji in the presence of Lahirī, at Lahirī's home. Pranabananda asked Mahavatar Babaji his age. Mahavatar Babaji responded that he was about 500 years old at that time.\n\nKeshabananda, a disciple of Lahirī, tells of meeting Mahavatar Babaji in the mountains near Badrinath around 1935, after he became lost wandering in the mountains. At that meeting, Pranabananda reported that Babaji gave him a message for Paramahansa Yogananda, that \"I won't see him this time, as he is eagerly hoping; but I shall see him on some other occasion.\" In his book \"Autobiography of a Yogi\", Paramahansa Yogananda wrote that Mahavatar Babaji visited him before his journey to America and addressed him saying, \"You are the one I have chosen to spread the message of Kriya Yoga in the West.\"\n\nOther disciples of Lahirī who reported meetings with Mahavatar Babaji include Kebalananda Giri and Ram Gopal Muzumdar, who recounted meeting Mahavatar Babaji and his sister, whom he called Mataji. In addition, a disciple of Trailanga Swami, Shankari Mata (also called Shankari Mai Jiew) met Mahavatar Babaji while visiting Lahiri Mahasaya.\n\nBabaji was seen by Baba Nasib Singh Ji, when he was saved by Mahavatar Babaji when he was suffering from blood cancer. Babaji told him that his divine plan is to serve the needy. Babaji also gave him a divine staff that was able to cure the miseries of people. Babaji said to him: \"Follow my instructions and serve the ones who are in need, with this divine staff you will be able to help others and cure them. You have my divine blessings. I will be always with you whenever you will need my help.\" \n\nLegendary powers and age have been attributed to Mahavatar Babaji by the disciples of Lahirī. These stories have led many to believe that Mahavatar Babaji is a legendary person, rather than a real sadhu that was seen by numerous witnesses from 1861 to 1935.\n\nParamahansa Yogananda, in his Autobiography, described Mahavatar Babaji's role on earth :\nThe Mahavatar is in constant communion with Christ; together they send out vibrations of redemption, and have planned the spiritual technique of salvation for this age. The work of these two illumined masters–one with the body, and one without it–is to inspire the nations to forsake suicidal wars, race hatreds, religious sectarianism, and the boomerang-evils of materialism. Babaji is well aware of the trend of modern times, especially of the influence and complexities of Western civilization, and realizes the necessity of spreading the self-liberations of yoga equally in the West and in the East.\n\nIn addition, Babaji is reputed to be ageless, according to some accounts, and about 500 years old around the late 1800s, according to Pranabananda. Yogananda reports that, according to the disciples of Lahirī, nobody knows Babaji's age, family, place of birth, true name, or other details \"dear to the annalist's heart.\"\n\nAccording to Yogananda's autobiography, he has a sister called Mataji (meaning \"Holy Mother\") who also has lived throughout the centuries. Her level of spiritual attainment is comparable to her brother's, and she lives in a state of spiritual ecstasy in an underground cave. Although only three pages in the book are dedicated to her, she is described by Ram Gopal as \"young and surpassingly lovely\" as well as a \"glorious woman.\"\n\nYogananda frequently prayed out loud to \"Babaji-Krishna.\"\n\nMahavatar Babaji was one of the many people featured on the cover of The Beatles' 1967 album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". He can also be seen on the cover of George Harrison's 1974 album \"Dark Horse\".\n\nIn Book 3 of \"Conversations with God\" (1998), by Neale Donald Walsch, it is mentioned that Babaji may at one time have resurrected himself from the dead, just like Lazarus, Jesus and others.\n\nIn the book \"Ultimate Journey\" (1994) by Robert Monroe, the author visits a person through his astral projection (although no name is mentioned) who turns out to have lived one single life for 1800 years, which would suggest that he was born around 203 CE.\n\nThe 2002 Tamil film \"Baba\" written by Rajinikanth was based on Babaji.\nSwami Maheshwarananda writes in his book \"The hidden power in humans\", that the Guru of the legendary Babaji is Sri Alakh Puriji.\n\nIn his autobiography \"Apprenticed to a Himalayan master: a yogi's autobiography\" (2010), Sri M (Mumtaz Ali) narrates his meeting with Babaji near Neelkant hill. In his book, Sri M gave description of Babaji as golden complexioned, bare-bodied, except for a shining white loin cloth that barely reached the knees, and flowing brown hair that fell to his shoulders. He mentioned that a lovely scent emanated from Babaji and he looked divine. In the second last chapter of his book, he mentions that Babji himself was Lord Shiva. He describes seeing Babaji changing his form to Lord Shiva again and again. He also mentions that Sai Baba, Jesus, Guru Nanak and many others were disciples of Mahavatar Babaji.\n\nSongwriter Roger Hodgson of English rock band Supertramp composed a song called 'Babaji' in reference to Mahavatar Babaji. This song is recorded on their 1977 album \"Even in the Quietest Moments...\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30029710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30029710", "title": "Maria Domenica Lazzeri", "text": "Maria Domenica Lazzeri\n\nMaria Domenica Lazzeri (1815–1848) also known as la Meneghina was an Italian mystic. The cause for her beatification was started in 1943.\n\nMaria Domenica Lazzeri was born May 16, 1815 in Capriana, Italy. As of 1833 she became bedridden most of her life. According to her physician she ate nothing for the last 14 years of her life except for receiving Holy Communion. She died April 4, 1848. Her cause was formally reopened in 1995, and she is currently styled Servant of God.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "219357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219357", "title": "Marion Davies", "text": "Marion Davies\n\nMarion Cecilia Davies (née Douras, January 3, 1897 – September 22, 1961) was an American film actress, producer, screenwriter, and philanthropist.\n\nDavies had appeared in several Broadway musicals and one film, \"Runaway Romany\" (1917) before newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst, with whom she had begun a romantic relationship, took over management of her career. Hearst financed Davies' pictures and promoted her heavily through his newspapers and Hearst Newsreels. He founded Cosmopolitan Pictures to produce her films. Hearst preferred to see her in historical dramas, but her real talent was in comedy. For this reason, Davies is often remembered today as Hearst's mistress and the hostess of many lavish events for the Hollywood elite. In particular, her name is linked with the 1924 scandal aboard Hearst's yacht when one of his guests, film producer Thomas Ince, died.\n\nIn the film \"Citizen Kane\" (1941), the title character's second wife—an untalented singer whom he tries to promote—was widely assumed to be based on Davies. But many commentators, including \"Citizen Kane\" writer/director Orson Welles himself, have defended Davies' record as a gifted actress, to whom Hearst's patronage did more harm than good. She retired from the screen in 1937, choosing to devote herself to Hearst and charitable work.\n\nIn Hearst's declining years, Davies provided financial as well as emotional support until his death in 1951. She married for the first time eleven weeks after his death, a marriage which lasted until Davies died of stomach cancer in 1961 at the age of 64.\n\nDavies was born Marion Cecilia Elizabeth Brooklyn Douras on January 3, 1897, in Brooklyn, the youngest of five children born to Bernard J. Douras (1857–1935), a lawyer and judge in New York City; and Rose Reilly (1867–1928). Her father performed the civil marriage of Gloria Gould Bishop. She had three older sisters, Ethel, Rose, and Reine. An older brother, Charles, drowned at the age of 15 in 1906. His name was subsequently given to Davies' favorite nephew, screenwriter Charles Lederer, the son of Davies' sister Reine Davies.\n\nThe Douras family lived near Prospect Park in Brooklyn. The sisters changed their surname to Davies, which one of them spotted on a real-estate agent's sign in the neighborhood. Even at a time when New York was the melting pot for new immigrants, having a British surname greatly helped one's prospects—the name Davies has Welsh origins.\n\nEducated in a New York convent, Davies left school to pursue a career. She worked as a chorus girl in Broadway revues and modeled for illustrators Harrison Fisher and Howard Chandler Christy. In 1916, Davies was signed on as a Ziegfeld girl in the \"Ziegfeld Follies\".\n\nAfter making her screen debut in 1916, modelling gowns by Lady Duff-Gordon in a fashion newsreel, she appeared in her first feature film in the 1917 \"Runaway Romany\". Davies wrote the film, which was directed by her brother-in-law, prominent Broadway producer George W. Lederer. The following year she starred in two films—\"The Burden of Proof\" and \"Cecilia of the Pink Roses\". Playing mainly light comic roles, she quickly became a film personality appearing with major male stars, making a small fortune, which enabled her to provide financial assistance for her family and friends.\n\nBy the mid-1920s, however, Davies' career was often overshadowed by her relationship with William Randolph Hearst and their social life at San Simeon and Ocean House in Santa Monica. The latter was dubbed by Colleen Moore \"the biggest house on the beach—the beach between San Diego and Vancouver\".\n\nAccording to her own audio diaries, she met newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst long before she had started working in films. In 1918, Hearst formed Cosmopolitan Pictures and signed Davies to a $5-per-week contract, using his newspapers and Hearst Newsreels to promote her. Hearst's relentless efforts to promote her career had a detrimental effect, but he persisted, making Cosmopolitan's distribution deals first with Paramount, then Goldwyn, and with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Davies herself was more inclined to develop her comic talents alongside her friends at United Artists, but Hearst pointedly discouraged this. Davies, in her published memoirs \"The Times We Had\", concluded that Hearst's over-the-top promotion of her career, in fact, had a negative result. One particular example, he had purchased the Cameo Theatre (located in San Francisco) in 1929. He then lavishly remodeled both the exterior and interior decor in a rosebud-hued Art Moderne motif, and renamed it The Marion Davies Theatre. From Hearst's office windows further up Market Street, he could see pink neon letters constantly spelling out her name above the marquee. Hearst Metrotone Newsreels were included on the program, and these newsreels regularly touted Miss Davies' social activities.\nHearst, who was still married, became romantically involved with Davies, and moved her with her mother and sisters into an elegant Manhattan townhouse at the corner of Riverside Drive and W. 105th Street. \"Cecilia of the Pink Roses\" in 1918 was her first film backed by Hearst. She was on her way to being the most infamously advertised actress in the world. During the next ten years she appeared in 29 films, an average of almost three films a year. One of her best known roles was as Mary Tudor in \"When Knighthood Was in Flower\" (1922), directed by Robert G. Vignola, with whom she collaborated on several films.\n\nThe 1922–23 period may have been her most successful, with both \"When Knighthood Was in Flower\" and \"Little Old New York\" ranking among the top 3 box-office hits of those years. Indeed, she was named the #1 female box-office star by theater owners and crowned as \"Queen of the Screen\" at their 1924 convention in Hollywood. Other hit silent films included \"Beverly of Graustark\", \"The Cardboard Lover\", \"Enchantment\",\"The Bride's Play\", \"Lights of Old Broadway\", \"Zander the Great\", \"The Red Mill\", \"Yolanda\", \"Beauty's Worth\", and \"The Restless Sex\".\n\nHearst loved seeing her in expensive costume pictures, but she also appeared in contemporary comedies like \"Tillie the Toiler\", \"The Fair Co-Ed\" (both 1927), and especially three directed by King Vidor, \"Not So Dumb\" (1930), \"The Patsy\" and the backstage-in-Hollywood saga \"Show People\" (both 1928). \"The Patsy\" contains her imitations, which she usually did for friends, of silent stars Lillian Gish, Mae Murray and Pola Negri. King Vidor saw Davies as a comedic actress instead of the dramatic actress that Hearst wanted her to be. He noticed she was the life of parties and incorporated that into his films.\n\nAfter seeing photographs of St Donat's Castle in \"Country Life\" magazine, the Welsh Vale of Glamorgan property was bought and revitalized by Hearst in 1925 as a gift to Davies. Hearst and Davies spent much of their time entertaining, holding lavish parties with guests at their Beverly Hills estate. Frequent guests included, among others, Charlie Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks, and a young John F. Kennedy. Upon visiting St Donat's, George Bernard Shaw was quoted as saying: \"This is what God would have built if he had had the money.\"\n\nThe coming of sound made Davies nervous because she had never completely overcome a childhood stutter. Her career continued, however, and she made several comedies and musicals during the late 1920s and 1930s, including \"Marianne\" (1929), \"The Hollywood Revue of 1929\" (1929), \"Not So Dumb\" (1930), \"The Florodora Girl\" (1930), \"The Bachelor Father\" (1931), \"Five and Ten\" (1931) with Leslie Howard, \"Polly of the Circus\" (1932) with Clark Gable, \"Blondie of the Follies\" (1932), \"Peg o' My Heart\" (1933), \"Going Hollywood\" (1933) with Bing Crosby, and \"Operator 13\" (1934) with Gary Cooper. She was involved with many aspects of her films and was considered an astute businesswoman. Her career, however, was hampered by Hearst's insistence that she play distinguished, dramatic parts as opposed to the comic roles that were her forte.\n\nHearst reportedly had tried to push MGM production boss Irving Thalberg to cast Davies in the title role in \"Marie Antoinette\", but Thalberg gave the part to his wife, Norma Shearer. This rejection came on the heels of Davies having been also denied the female lead in \"The Barretts of Wimpole Street\"; that role going to Shearer as well. Despite Davies' friendship with the Thalbergs, Hearst reacted by pulling his newspaper support for MGM and moving Davies and Cosmopolitan Pictures distribution to Warner Brothers. Davies' films there were \"Page Miss Glory\" (1935), \"Hearts Divided\", \"Cain and Mabel\" (both 1936), and \"Ever Since Eve\" (1937). Mirroring events at MGM, Warners purchased the rights to the play \"Tovarich\" for Davies, but the film version \"Tovarich\" was given to Claudette Colbert. Hearst shopped Davies and Cosmopolitan for another year, but no deals were made and Davies officially retired. In 1943, Davies was offered the role of Mrs. Brown in \"Claudia\", but Hearst dissuaded her from taking a supporting role and tarnishing her starring career. In her 45 feature films, over a 20-year period, Davies had never been anything but the star and always got first billing. The only exceptions were films in which she appeared as herself and uncredited cameo appearances.\n\nWhen Cosmopolitan folded, Davies left the film business and retreated to San Simeon. Davies would later state in her autobiography that after many years of work she had had enough and decided to devote herself to being Hearst's \"companion and confidante\". In truth, she was intensely ambitious, but faced the harsh reality that at the age of forty, she could no longer play the young heroines or madcaps as in earlier films, and that she was unwilling to play supporting roles. Decades after Davies' retirement and death, however, the consensus among some critics is more appreciative of her efforts, particularly in the field of comedy.\n\nLargely because of the damage to her reputation caused by \"Citizen Kane\", Davies has been largely ignored by film critics and historians. But a recent reassessment of her work has come about via broadcast of her films on Turner Classic Movies and the release on DVD on her silent films like \"When Knighthood Was in Flower\", \"Beauty's Worth\", \"The Bride's Play\", \"Enchantment\", \"The Restless Sex\", \"April Folly\", and \"Buried Treasure\". This new availability, along with the publication of \"The Silent Films of Marion Davies\" by Edward Lorusso have allowed for a better assessment of Davies' work as an actress. Despite the legend, most of Davies's films made money and she remained a popular star for most of her career. Indeed, Davies was the #1 female box office star of 1922-23 thanks to the enormous popularity of \"When Knighthood Was in Flower\" and \"Little Old New York\", which both ranked among the biggest box-office films of 1922 and 1923, respectively.\n\nPublishing mogul William Randolph Hearst and Davies lived as a couple for decades but were never married, as Hearst's wife refused to give him a divorce. At one point, he reportedly came close to marrying Davies, but decided his wife's settlement demands were too high. Hearst was extremely jealous and possessive of her, even though he was married throughout their relationship. Lita Grey, the second wife of Charlie Chaplin, wrote four decades later that Davies confided with her about the relationship with Hearst. Grey quoted Davies saying:\n\nBy the late 1930s, Hearst was suffering financial reversals. After selling many of the contents of St Donat's Castle, Davies sold her jewelry, stocks and bonds and wrote a check for $1 million to Hearst to save him from bankruptcy. Davies had developed a drinking problem over the course of many years, but her alcoholism grew worse in the latter 1930's and the 1940s, as she and Hearst lived an increasingly isolated life. The two spent most of the Second World War at Hearst's Northern California estate of Wyntoon, until returning to San Simeon in 1945.\n\nHearst died on August 14, 1951. In his will, Hearst provided handsomely for Davies, leaving her 170,000 shares of Hearst Corporation stock, in addition to 30,000 he had established for her in a trust fund in 1950. This gave her a controlling interest in the company for a short time, until she chose to relinquish the stock voluntarily to the corporation on October 30, 1951. She retained her original 30,000 shares and an advisory role with the corporation.\n\nSince the early 1920s, there has been speculation that Davies and Hearst had a child together some time between 1920 and 1923. The child was rumored to be Patricia Lake (née Van Cleve), who was publicly identified as Davies' niece. On October 3, 1993, Lake died of complications from lung cancer in Indian Wells, California. Ten hours before her death, Lake requested that her son publicly announce that she was not Davies' niece but Davies' biological daughter, whom she had conceived with Hearst. Lake had never commented on her alleged paternity in public, even after Hearst's and Davies' deaths, but did tell her grown children and friends. Lake's claim was published in her death notice, which was published in newspapers.\n\nLake told her friends and family that Davies became pregnant by Hearst in the early 1920s. As the child was conceived during Hearst's extra-marital affair with Davies and out of wedlock, Hearst sent Davies to Europe to have the child in secret to avoid a public scandal. Hearst later joined Davies in Europe. Lake claimed she was born in a Catholic hospital outside of Paris between 1920 and 1923 (she was unsure of the precise date). Lake was then given to Davies' sister Rose, whose own child had died in infancy, and passed off as Rose and her husband George Van Cleve's daughter. Lake stated that Hearst paid for her schooling and both Davies and Hearst spent considerable time with her. Davies reportedly told Lake of her true parentage when she was 11 years old. Lake said Hearst confirmed that he was her father on her wedding day at age 17 where both Davies and Hearst gave her away.\n\nNeither Davies nor Hearst ever publicly addressed the rumors during their lives. Upon news of the story, a spokesman for Hearst Castle only commented that, \"It's a very old rumor and a rumor is all it ever was.\"\n\nIn November 1924, Davies was among those aboard Hearst's luxury yacht \"Oneida\" for a weekend party that resulted in the death of film producer Thomas Ince. Rumors have endured since then that Davies had an alleged relationship with fellow-guest Charlie Chaplin, and that Hearst mistook Ince for Chaplin and shot him out of jealousy. There has never been any evidence to support the rumors.\n\nInce's autopsy showed that he suffered an attack of acute indigestion while aboard the yacht and was escorted off in San Diego by another of the guests, Dr. Daniel Carson Goodman, a Hollywood writer and producer. Ince was put on a train bound for Los Angeles, but was removed from the train at Del Mar when his condition worsened. He was given medical attention by Dr. T. A. Parker and a nurse, Jesse Howard. Ince told them that he had drunk liquor aboard Hearst's yacht. He was taken to his Hollywood home where he died the following day of a heart condition.\n\nEleven weeks and one day after Hearst's death, Davies married Horace Brown on October 31, 1951, in Las Vegas. It was not a happy marriage. Davies filed for divorce twice, but neither was finalized, despite Brown admitting he treated her badly: \"I'm a beast,\" he said. \"I took him back. I don't know why,\" she explained. \"I guess because he's standing right beside me, crying. Thank God we all have a sense of humor.\"\n\nIn her later years, Davies was involved with charity work. In 1952, she donated $1.9 million to establish a children's clinic at UCLA which was named for her; the clinic's name was changed to The Mattel Children's Hospital in 1998. She also fought childhood diseases through the Marion Davies Foundation.\n\nShe suffered a minor stroke in 1956, and later underwent surgery on her jawbone for osteomyelitis. Twelve days after the operation, Davies fell in her hospital room and broke her leg. Davies made her last public appearance on January 10, 1960, on an NBC television special called \"Hedda Hopper's Hollywood\". Joseph P. Kennedy rented Davies' mansion and worked from behind the scenes to secure his son John F. Kennedy's nomination during the 1960 Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles. It was not long after that she was diagnosed with stomach cancer.\n\nDavies died of stomach cancer on September 22, 1961, in her home in Hollywood, California.\n\nHer funeral at Immaculate Heart of Mary Church in Hollywood was attended by 200 people and many Hollywood celebrities, including Mary Pickford, Charles \"Buddy\" Rogers, Mrs. Clark Gable (Kay Spreckels), and Johnny Weissmuller. She is buried in the Hollywood Forever Cemetery. Davies left an estate estimated at $20 million.\n\n\nDavies was commonly assumed to be the inspiration for the Susan Alexander character portrayed in Orson Welles's \"Citizen Kane\" (1941), which was based loosely on Hearst's life. This led to various portrayals of Davies as a talentless opportunist. In his foreword to Davies' autobiography, \"The Times We Had\" (published posthumously in 1975), Welles wrote that his fictional creation bears no resemblance to Davies:\n\nThat Susan was Kane's wife and Marion was Hearst's mistress is a difference more important than might be guessed in today's changed climate of opinion. The wife was a puppet and a prisoner; the mistress was never less than a princess. Hearst built more than one castle, and Marion was the hostess in all of them: they were pleasure domes indeed, and the Beautiful People of the day fought for invitations. Xanadu was a lonely fortress, and Susan was quite right to escape from it. The mistress was never one of Hearst's possessions: he was always her suitor, and she was the precious treasure of his heart for more than 30 years, until his last breath of life. Theirs is truly a love story. Love is not the subject of \"Citizen Kane\".\n\nWelles told filmmaker Peter Bogdanovich that Samuel Insull's building of the Chicago Opera House, and business tycoon Harold Fowler McCormick's lavish promotion of the opera career of his second wife, were direct influences on the screenplay for \"Citizen Kane\". \"As for Marion,\" Welles said, \"she was an extraordinary woman—nothing like the character Dorothy Comingore played in the movie.\"\n\nDavies was portrayed by Virginia Madsen in the telefilm \"The Hearst and Davies Affair\" (1985) with Robert Mitchum as Hearst. Madsen later became a Davies fan and said that she felt she had inadvertently portrayed her as a stereotype, rather than as a real person.\n\nDavies was portrayed by Heather McNair in \"Chaplin\" (1992); by Gretchen Mol in \"Cradle Will Rock\" (1999); and by Kirsten Dunst in \"The Cat's Meow\" (2001).\n\nMelanie Griffith was nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress – Miniseries or a Movie for portraying Davies in RKO 281 in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "248177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248177", "title": "Menippus", "text": "Menippus\n\nMenippus of Gadara (; ; fl. 3rd century BC) was a Cynic satirist. His works, all of which are lost, were an important influence on Varro and Lucian. The Menippean satire genre is named after him.\n\nLittle is known about the life of Menippus. He was a native of Gadara in Coele-Syria. The ancient sources agree that he was a slave. He was in the service of a citizen of Pontus, but in some way obtained his freedom and lived at Thebes. Diogenes Laërtius relates a dubious story that he amassed a fortune as a money-lender, lost it, and committed suicide through grief. Lucian ranks Menippus with Antisthenes, Diogenes, and Crates as among the most notable of the Cynics.\n\nHis works (written in a mixture of prose and verse) are all lost. He discussed serious subjects in a spirit of ridicule, and especially delighted in attacking the Epicureans and Stoics. Strabo and Stephanus call him the \"earnest-jester\" (, \"spoudogeloios\"). His writings exercised considerable influence upon later literature, and the Menippean satire genre is named after him. Although the writings of Menippus no longer survive, there are some fragments of Varro's \"Saturae Menippeae\", which were written in imitation of Menippus. One of the dialogues attributed to Lucian, his avowed imitator, who frequently mentions him, is called \"Menippus\", but since the sub-title (\"The Oracle of the Dead\") resembles that of a work ascribed to Menippus by Diogenes Laërtius, .\n\nDiogenes Laërtius says the following works were written by Menippus:\n\nIn addition, Athenaeus mentions works called \"Symposium\" and \"Arcesilaus\", and Diogenes Laërtius mentions a \"Sale of Diogenes\" () written by Menippus which seems to be the main source of the story that Diogenes of Sinope was captured by pirates and sold into slavery.\n\n"}
{"id": "191400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191400", "title": "Michael Servetus", "text": "Michael Servetus\n\nMichael Servetus (; as real name, ), also known as \"Miguel Servet\", \"Miguel de Villanueva\", \"Michel Servet\", \"Revés\", or \"Michel de Villeneuve\" (Villanueva de Sigena, Aragón, Spain, 29 September 1509 or 1511 – 27 October 1553), was a Spanish theologian, physician, cartographer, and Renaissance humanist. He was the first European to correctly describe the function of pulmonary circulation, as discussed in \"Christianismi Restitutio\" (1553). He was a polymath versed in many sciences: mathematics, astronomy and meteorology, geography, human anatomy, medicine and pharmacology, as well as jurisprudence, translation, poetry and the scholarly study of the Bible in its original languages. He is renowned in the history of several of these fields, particularly medicine. He participated in the Protestant Reformation, and later developed a heterodox view of the Trinity and Christology. After being condemned by Catholic authorities in France, he fled to Calvinist Geneva where he was burnt at the stake for heresy by order of the city's governing council.\n\nMost scholars agree that Servetus was probably born in 1511 in Villanueva de Sigena in Aragon, Spain. The day of 29 September has been conventionally proposed for his birth, due to the fact that 29 September is Saint Michael's day according to the Catholic calendar of saints, but there are no data supporting this claim. Some sources give an earlier date based on Servetus' own occasional claim of having been born in 1509, and a few authors have proposed Tudela of Navarre as his birthplace, and that his true name was \"De Villanueva\" according to the letters of his French naturalization (Chamber des Comptes, Royal Chancellorship and Parlement of Grenoble) and the registry at the University of Paris. The ancestors of his father came from the hamlet of Serveto, in the Aragonese Pyrenees. His father was a notary of Christian ancestors from the lower nobility (\"infanzón\"), who worked at the nearby Monastery of Santa Maria de Sigena. Servetus had two brothers: one, Juan was a Catholic priest, and another was a notary, Pedro. Although Servetus declared during his trial in Geneva that his parents were \"Christians of ancient race\", and that he never had any communication with Jews, his maternal line actually descended from the Zaportas (or Çaportas), a wealthy and socially relevant family from the Barbastro and Monzón areas in Aragon. This was demonstrated by a notarial protocol published in 1999.\n\nServetus' family used a nickname, \"Revés\", according to an old tradition in rural Spain of using alternate names for families across generations. The origin of the Revés nickname may have been that a member of a (probably distinguished) family living in Villanueva with the surname Revés established blood ties with the Serveto family, thus uniting both family names for the next generations.\n\nServetus was gifted in languages and he could have studied Latin and Greek under the instruction of Dominican friars. He also had a knowledge of Hebrew. At the age of fifteen Servetus entered the service of a Franciscan friar named Juan de Quintana. In 1526 he attended the University of Toulouse where he studied law. Servetus could have had access to forbidden religious books, some of them maybe Protestant, while he was studying in this city.\n\nQuintana became Charles V's confessor in 1530, and Servetus joined him in the imperial retinue as his page or secretary. Servetus travelled through Italy and Germany, and attended Charles' coronation as Holy Roman Emperor in Bologna. He was outraged by the pomp and luxury displayed by the Pope and his retinue, and decided to follow the path of reformation. It is not known when Servetus left the imperial entourage, but in October 1530 he visited Johannes Oecolampadius in Basel, staying there for about ten months, and probably supporting himself as a proofreader for a local printer. By this time he was already spreading his theological beliefs. In May 1531 he met Martin Bucer and Wolfgang Fabricius Capito in Strasbourg.\n\nTwo months later, in July 1531, Servetus published \"De Trinitatis Erroribus\" (\"On the Errors of the Trinity\"). The next year he published the work \"Dialogorum de Trinitate\" (\"Dialogues on the Trinity\") and the supplementary work \"De Iustitia Regni Christi\" (\"On the Justice of Christ's Reign\") in the same volume. After the persecution of the Inquisition, Servetus assumed the name \"Michel de Villeneuve\" while he was staying in France. He studied at the Collège de Calvi in Paris in 1533.\nServetus also published the first French edition of Ptolemy's \"Geography\". He dedicated his first edition of Ptolemy and his edition of the Bible to his patron Hugues de la Porte. While in Lyon, Symphorien Champier, a medical humanist, had been his patron. Servetus wrote a pharmacological treatise in defence of Champier against Leonhart Fuchs \"In Leonardum Fucsium Apologia\" (\"Apology against Leonard Fuchs\"). Working also as a proofreader, he published several more books which dealt with medicine and pharmacology, such as his \"Syruporum universia ratio\" (\"Complete Explanation of the Syrups\"), for which he gained fame.\n\nAfter an interval, Servetus returned to Paris to study medicine in 1536. In Paris, his teachers included Sylvius, Fernel and Johann Winter von Andernach, who hailed him with Andrea Vesalius as his most able assistant in dissections. During these years he wrote his \"Manuscript of the Complutense\", an unpublished compendium of his medical ideas. Servetus taught mathematics and astrology while he studied medicine. He predicted an occultation of Mars by the Moon, and this joined to his teaching generated much envy among the medicine teachers. His teaching classes were suspended by the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Jean Tagault, and Servetus wrote his \"Apologetic Discourse of Michel de Villeneuve in Favour of Astrology and against a Certain Physician\" against him. Tagault later argued for the death penalty in the judgment of the University of Paris against Servetus. He was accused of teaching \"De Divinatione\" by Cicero. Finally, the sentence was reduced to the withdrawal of this edition. As a result of the risks and difficulties of studying medicine at Paris, Servetus decided to go to Montpellier to finish his medical studies, maybe thanks to his teacher Sylvius who did exactly the same as a student. There he became a Doctor of Medicine in 1539. After that he lived at Charlieu. A jealous physician ambushed and tried to kill Servetus, but Servetus defended himself and injured one of the attackers in a sword fight. He was in prison for several days because of this incident.\n\nAfter his studies in medicine, Servetus started a medical practice. He became personal physician to Pierre Palmier, Archbishop of Vienne, and was also physician to Guy de Maugiron, the lieutenant governor of Dauphiné. Thanks to the printer Jean Frellon II, acquaintance of John Calvin and friend of Michel, Servetus and Calvin began to correspond. Calvin used the pseudonym \"\"Charles d'Espeville\".\" Servetus also became a French citizen, using his \"De Villeneuve\" \"persona\", by the Royal Process (1548–1549) of French Naturalization, issued by Henri II of France.\n\nIn 1553 Michael Servetus published yet another religious work with further anti-trinitarian views. It was entitled \"Christianismi Restitutio\" (\"The Restoration of Christianity\"), a work that sharply rejected the idea of predestination as the idea that God condemned souls to Hell regardless of worth or merit. God, insisted Servetus, condemns no one who does not condemn himself through thought, word or deed. This work also includes the first published description of the pulmonary circulation.\n\nTo Calvin, who had written his summary of Christian doctrine \"Institutio Christianae Religionis\" (\"Institutes of the Christian Religion\"), Servetus' latest book was an attack on historical Nicene Christian doctrine and a misinterpretation of the biblical canon. Calvin sent a copy of his own book as his reply. Servetus promptly returned it, thoroughly annotated with critical observations. Calvin wrote to Servetus, \"I neither hate you nor despise you; nor do I wish to persecute you; but I would be as hard as iron when I behold you insulting sound doctrine with so great audacity.\" In time their correspondence grew more heated until Calvin ended it. Servetus sent Calvin several more letters, to which Calvin took offense. Thus, Calvin's frustrations with Servetus seem to have been based mainly on Servetus's departure from biblically-rooted Christian doctrine, but also on his tone, which Calvin considered inappropriate. Calvin revealed these frustrations with Servetus when writing to his friend William Farel on 13 February 1546:\n\nOn 16 February 1553, Michael Servetus while in Vienne, France, was denounced as a heretic by Guillaume de Trie, a rich merchant who had taken refuge in Geneva, and who was a good friend of Calvin, in a letter sent to a cousin, Antoine Arneys, who was living in Lyon. On behalf of the French inquisitor Matthieu Ory, Michael Servetus and Balthasard Arnollet, the printer of \"Christianismi Restitutio\", were questioned, but they denied all charges and were released for lack of evidence. Ory asked Arneys to write back to De Trie, demanding proof. On 26 March 1553, the letters sent by Michel to Calvin and some manuscript pages of \"Christianismi Restitutio\" were forwarded to Lyon by De Trie. On 4 April 1553 Servetus was arrested by Roman Catholic authorities, and imprisoned in Vienne. He escaped from prison three days later. On 17 June, he was convicted of heresy, \"thanks to the 17 letters sent by John Calvin, preacher in Geneva\" and sentenced to be burned with his books. In his absence, he and his books were burned in effigy (blank paper for the books).\n\nMeaning to flee to Italy, Servetus inexplicably stopped in Geneva, where Calvin and his Reformers had denounced him. On 13 August, he attended a sermon by Calvin at Geneva. He was arrested after the service and again imprisoned. All his property was confiscated. Servetus claimed during this judgment he was arrested at an inn at Geneva. French Inquisitors asked that Servetus be extradited to them for execution. Calvin wanted to show himself as firm in defense of Christian orthodoxy as his usual opponents. \"He was forced to push the condemnation of Servetus with all the means at his command.\" Calvin's delicate health meant he did not personally appear against Servetus. Nicholas de la Fontaine played the more active role in Servetus's prosecution and the listing of points that condemned him. Among the possible reasons which prevented Calvin from appearing personally against Servetus there was one which must have seemed of itself sufficient. The laws regulating criminal actions in Geneva required that in certain grave cases the complainant himself should be incarcerated pending the trial. Calvin's delicate health and his great and constant usefulness in the administration of the state rendered a prolonged absence from the public life of Geneva impracticable. Nevertheless, Calvin is to be regarded as the author of the prosecution. Nicholas de la Fontaine was a refugee in Geneva and entered the service of Calvin, by whom he was employed as secretary.\n\nAt his trial, Servetus was condemned on two counts, for spreading and preaching Nontrinitarianism, specifically, Modalistic Monarchianism, or Sabellianism, and anti-paedobaptism (anti-infant baptism). Of paedobaptism Servetus had said, \"It is an invention of the devil, an infernal falsity for the destruction of all Christianity.\" In the case the \"procureur général\" (chief public prosecutor) added some curious-sounding accusations in the form of inquiries—the most odd-sounding perhaps being, \"whether he has married, and if he answers that he has not, he shall be asked why, in consideration of his age, he could refrain so long from marriage.\" To this oblique imputation about his sexuality, Servetus replied that rupture (inguinal hernia) had long since made him incapable of that particular sin. Another question was \"whether he did not know that his doctrine was pernicious, considering that he favours Jews and Turks, by making excuses for them, and if he has not studied the Koran in order to disprove and controvert the doctrine and religion that the Christian churches hold, together with other profane books, from which people ought to abstain in matters of religion, according to the doctrine of St. Paul.\"\n\nCalvin believed Servetus deserved death on account of what he termed as his \"execrable blasphemies\". Calvin expressed these sentiments in a letter to Farel, written about a week after Servetus’ arrest, in which he also mentioned an exchange with Servetus. Calvin wrote:\n\n...after he [Servetus] had been recognized, I thought he should be detained. My friend Nicolas summoned him on a capital charge, offering himself as a security according to the \"lex talionis\". On the following day he adduced against him forty written charges. He at first sought to evade them. Accordingly we were summoned. He impudently reviled me, just as if he regarded me as obnoxious to him. I answered him as he deserved... of the man’s effrontery I will say nothing; but such was his madness that he did not hesitate to say that devils possessed divinity; yea, that many gods were in individual devils, inasmuch as a deity had been substantially communicated to those equally with wood and stone. I hope that sentence of death will at least be passed on him; but I desired that the severity of the punishment be mitigated.\n\nAs Servetus was not a citizen of Geneva, and legally could at worst be banished, the government, in an attempt to find some plausible excuse to disregard this legal reality, had consulted other Swiss Reformed cantons (Zürich, Bern, Basel, Schaffhausen). They universally favoured his condemnation and suppression of his doctrine, but without saying how that should be accomplished. Martin Luther had condemned his writing in strong terms. Servetus and Philip Melanchthon had strongly hostile views of each other. The party called the \"Libertines\", who were generally opposed to anything and everything John Calvin supported, were in this case strongly in favour of the execution of Servetus at the stake (while Calvin urged that he be beheaded instead). In fact, the council that condemned Servetus was presided over by Ami Perrin (a Libertine) who ultimately on 24 October sentenced Servetus to death by burning for denying the Trinity and infant baptism. Calvin and other ministers asked that he be beheaded instead of burnt, knowing that burning at the stake was the only legal recourse. This plea was refused and on 27 October, Servetus was burnt alive—atop a pyre of his own books—at the Plateau of Champel at the edge of Geneva. Historians record his last words as: \"Jesus, Son of the Eternal God, have mercy on me.\"\n\nSebastian Castellio and countless others denounced this execution and became harsh critics of Calvin because of the whole affair.\n\nSome other anti-trinitarian thinkers began to be more cautious in expressing their views: Martin Cellarius, Lelio Sozzini and others either ceased writing or wrote only in private. The fact that Servetus was dead meant that his writings could be distributed more widely, though others such as Giorgio Biandrata developed them in their own names.\n\nThe writings of Servetus influenced the beginnings of the Unitarian movement in Poland and Transylvania. Peter Gonesius's advocacy of Servetus' views led to the separation of the Polish brethren from the Calvinist Reformed Church in Poland, and laid the foundations for the Socinian movement which fostered the early Unitarians in England like John Biddle.\n\nIn his first two books (\"De trinitatis erroribus\", and \"Dialogues on the Trinity\" plus the supplementary \"De Iustitia Regni Christi\") Servetus rejected the classical conception of the Trinity, stating that it was not based on the Bible. He argued that it arose from teachings of Greek philosophers, and he advocated a return to the simplicity of the Gospels and the teachings of the early Church Fathers that he believed predated the development of Nicene trinitarianism. Servetus hoped that the dismissal of the trinitarian dogma would make Christianity more appealing to believers in Judaism and Islam, which had preserved the unity of God in their teachings. According to Servetus, trinitarians had turned Christianity into a form of \"tritheism\", or belief in three gods. Servetus affirmed that the divine \"Logos\", the manifestation of God and not a separate divine Person, was incarnated in a human being, Jesus, when God's spirit came into the womb of the Virgin Mary. Only from the moment of conception was the Son actually generated. Therefore, although the Logos from which He was formed was eternal, the Son was not Himself eternal. For this reason, Servetus always rejected calling Christ the \"eternal Son of God\" but rather called him \"the Son of the eternal God.\"\n\nIn describing Servetus' view of the Logos, Andrew Dibb explained: \"In 'Genesis' God reveals himself as the creator. In 'John' he reveals that he created by means of the Word, or Logos. Finally, also in 'John', he shows that this Logos became flesh and 'dwelt among us'. Creation took place by the spoken word, for God said \"Let there be ...\" The spoken word of Genesis, the Logos of John, and the Christ, are all one and the same.\"\n\nIn his \"Treatise Concerning the Divine Trinity\" Servetus taught that the Logos was the reflection of Christ, and \"That reflection of Christ was 'the Word with God\" that consisted of God Himself, shining brightly in heaven, \"and it was God Himself\" and that \"the Word was the very essence of God or the manifestation of God's essence, and there was in God no other substance or hypostasis than His Word, in a bright cloud where God then seemed to subsist. And in that very spot the face and personality of Christ shone bright.\"\n\nUnitarian scholar Earl Morse Wilbur states, \"Servetus' \"Errors of the Trinity\" is hardly heretical in intent, rather is suffused with passionate earnestness, warm piety, an ardent reverence for Scripture, and a love for Christ so mystical and overpowering that [he] can hardly find words to express it ... Servetus asserted that the Father, Son and Holy Spirit were dispositions of God, and not separate and distinct beings.\" Wilbur promotes the idea that Servetus was a modalist.\n\nServetus states his view clearly in the preamble to \"Restoration of Christianity\" (1553): \"There is nothing greater, reader, than to recognize that God has been manifested as substance, and that His divine nature has been truly communicated. We shall clearly apprehend the manifestation of God through the Word and his communication through the Spirit, both of them substantially in Christ alone.\"\n\nThis theology, though original in some respects, has often been compared to Adoptionism, Arianism, and Sabellianism, all of which Trinitarians rejected in favour of the belief that God exists eternally in three distinct persons. Nevertheless, Servetus rejected these theologies in his books: Adoptionism, because it denied Jesus's divinity; Arianism, because it multiplied the hypostases and established a rank; and Sabellianism, because it seemingly confused the Father with the Son, though Servetus himself does appear to have denied or diminished the distinctions between the Persons of the Godhead, rejecting the Trinitarian understanding of One God in Three Persons.\nThe incomprehensible God is known through Christ, by faith, rather than by philosophical speculations. He manifests God to us, being the expression of His very being, and through him alone, God can be known. The scriptures reveal Him to those who have faith; and thus we come to know the Holy Spirit as the Divine impulse within us.\n\nUnder severe pressure from Catholics and Protestants alike, Servetus clarified this explanation in his second book, \"Dialogues\" (1532), to show the Logos coterminous with Christ. He was nevertheless accused of heresy because of his insistence on denying the dogma of the Trinity and the distinctions between the three divine Persons in one God.\n\nServetus also had very unorthodox views on the end times. He believed that he was the Michael referenced in both Daniel and Revelation who would fight the Antichrist. Furthermore, he believed that all this would take place in his lifetime. This possibly explains his decision to visit Calvin in Geneva. Servetus could have thought that he was somehow bringing about the beginnings of the end times by facing those who argued and fought against him.\n\nBecause of his rejection of the Trinity and eventual execution by burning for heresy, Unitarians often regard Servetus as the first (modern) Unitarian martyr —though he was a Unitarian in neither the 17th-century sense of the term nor the contemporary sense. Sharply critical though he was of the orthodox formulation of the trinity, Servetus is better described as a highly unorthodox trinitarian.\n\nAspects of his thinking—his critique of existing trinitarian theology, his devaluation of the doctrine of original sin, and his fresh examination of biblical proof-texts—did influence those who later inspired or founded unitarian churches in Poland and Transylvania.\n\nOther non-trinitarian groups, such as Jehovah's Witnesses, and Oneness Pentecostalism, also claim Servetus held similar non-trinitarian views as theirs. Oneness Pentecostalism particularly identifies with Servetus' teaching on the divinity of Jesus Christ and his insistence on the oneness of God, rather than a Trinity of three distinct persons: \"And because His Spirit was wholly God He is called God, just as from His flesh He is called man.\"\n\nSwedenborg wrote a systematic theology that had many similarities to the theology of Servetus.\n\nWidespread aversion to Servetus’s death has been taken as signaling the birth in Europe of the idea of religious tolerance, a principle now more important to modern Unitarian Universalists than antitrinitarianism.The Spanish scholar on Servetus' work, Ángel Alcalá, identified the radical search for truth and the right for freedom of conscience as Servetus' main legacies, rather than his theology. The Polish-American scholar, Marian Hillar, has studied the evolution of freedom of conscience, from Servetus and the Polish Socinians, to John Locke and to Thomas Jefferson and the American Declaration of Independence. According to Hillar: \"Historically speaking, Servetus died so that freedom of conscience could become a civil right in modern society.\" \n\nServetus was the first European to describe the function of pulmonary circulation, although his achievement was not widely recognized at the time, for a few reasons. One was that the description appeared in a theological treatise, \"Christianismi Restitutio\", not in a book on medicine. However, the sections in which he refers to anatomy and medicines demonstrate an amazing understanding of the body and treatments. Most copies of the book were burned shortly after its publication in 1553 because of persecution of Servetus by religious authorities. Three copies survived, but these remained hidden for decades. In passage V, Servetus recounts his discovery that the blood of the pulmonary circulation flows from the heart to the lungs (rather than air in the lungs flowing to the heart as had been thought). His discovery was based on the colour of the blood, the size and location of the different ventricles, and the fact that the pulmonary vein was extremely large, which suggested that it performed intensive and transcendent exchange. However, Servetus does not only deal with cardiology. In the same passage, from page 169 to 178, he also refers to the brain, the cerebellum, the meninges, the nerves, the eye, the tympanum, the rete mirabile, etc., demonstrating a great knowledge of anatomy. In some other sections of this work he also talks of medical products.\n\nServetus also contributed enormously to medicine with other published works specifically related to the field, such as his \"Complete Explanation of Syrups\" and his study on syphilis in his \"Apology against Leonhart Fuchs\", among others.\n\n\nIn Geneva, 350 years after the execution, remembering Servetus was still a controversial issue. In 1903 a committee was formed by supporters of Servetus to erect a monument in his honour. The group was led by a French Senator, Auguste Dide, an author of a book on heretics and revolutionaries which was published in 1887. The committee commissioned a local sculptor, Clotilde Roch, to execute a statue showing a suffering Servetus. The work was three years in the making and was finished in 1907. However, by then, supporters of Calvin in Geneva, having heard about the project, had already erected a simple stele in memory of Servetus in 1903, the main text of which served more as an apologetic for Calvin:\nDuteous and grateful followers of Calvin our great Reformer, yet condemning an error which was that of his age, and strongly attached to liberty of conscience according to the true principles of his Reformation and gospel, we have erected this expiatory monument. Oct. 27, 1903 About the same time, a short street close by the stele was named after him.\nThe city council then rejected the request of the committee to erect the completed statue, on the grounds that there was already a monument to Servetus. The committee then offered the statue to the neighbouring French town of Annemasse, which in 1908 placed it in front of the city hall, with the following inscriptions:\n“The arrest of Servetus in Geneva, where he did neither publish nor dogmatize, hence he was not subject to its laws, has to be considered as a barbaric act and an insult to the Right of Nations.” Voltaire\n\"I beg you, shorten please these deliberations. It is clear that Calvin for his pleasure wishes to make me rot in this prison. The lice eat me alive. My clothes are torn and I have nothing for a change, nor shirt, only a worn out vest.”\nServetus, 1553\nIn 1942, the Vichy Government took down the statue, as it was a celebration of freedom of conscience, and melted it. In 1960, having found the original molds, Annemasse had it recast and returned the statue to its previous place.\n\nFinally, on 3 October 2011, Geneva erected a copy of the statue which it had rejected over 100 years before. It was cast in Aragon from the molds of Clotilde Roch's original statue. Rémy Pagani, former mayor of Geneva, inaugurated the statue. He previously had described Servetus as \"the dissident of dissidence.\" Representatives from the Roman Catholic Church in Geneva and the Director of Geneva's International Museum of the Reformation attended the ceremony. A Geneva newspaper noted the absence of officials from the National Protestant Church of Geneva, the church of John Calvin.\n\nIn 1984, a Zaragoza public hospital changed its name from \"José Antonio\" to \"Miguel Servet\". It is now a university hospital.\n\nOnly the dates of the first editions are included.\n\n\nSpanish researcher Francisco Javier González Echeverría has done research that led him to identify Michael Servetus as the author or translator of 10 additional works between 1538 and 1553. These works were anonymous due to the first death penalty Michael got from the University of Paris in 1538, (finally reduced to a prohibition on \"attacking\" any Paris physician), its mention of authors who were forbidden in the Spanish Empire such as Erasmus and Robert Estienne, and the prohibition of any Biblical translation into any common language.\n\nGonzález Echeverría's conclusions have not been generally accepted by institutions studying Servetus, though they are supported by the International Society for the History of Medicine, the Spanish Society for the History of Medicine, and the Royal Academy of Medicine of Catalonia. The works that, according to this scholar, are also by Servetus are: 2 \"De Materia Medica\" with commentaries and marginalia (1543 and 1554, this last one printed by friends after Servetus' death), a pharmacopoeia of 1543, an edition of a Galenic corpus in 1548–1551, a manuscript (\"Complutense's Manuscript\") in an edition of \"De Materia Medica\" by Jean Ruel, as well as translations of two Biblical works with woodcuts by Hans Holbein the Younger: \"Picture stories of the Old Testament\" and \"Portraits or printing boards from the story of the Old Testament\". Finally, also translations from Latin to Spanish of four grammatical treatises, mostly for children: \"Disticha de moribus nomine Catonis\", \"Children's book of notes on the elegance and variety of the Latin language\", \"Andria. La Andriana\", and \"A Little Work on the Use of the Eight Parts of Speech.\" González Echeverría is nowadays also the main defender of the hypothesis that Michael Servetus was born in the city of Tudela in the kingdom of Navarre, that both biological parents were actually Jewish conversos, although the father's identity and biographical details are unknown, and that his true name was \"De Villanueva\", while \"Servetus\" was a pseudonym that he used in Protestant lands, and for publishing his heretical theological works, showing no other data such as the city where they were printed, imprint mark nor mark of printer.\n\nSome previous scholars had defended the birth of Michael in Tudela in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but never with the theory of \"Servetus\" being a pseudonym. The established academic consensus on the matter is that he was born in Villanueva de Sijena, in the neighbouring region of Aragon, as Servetus himself claimed in his early works and during the whole trial at Geneva; but with no documents, as stated in the judgement that ultimately led him to his death at the stake. Scholarly debate may be tarnished by local and regional interests, because González and some other scholars claim that the true reason behind the non-acceptance of these new works by several institutions studying Servetus has to do more with his line of research on the identity of Michael, and his consequent different birthplace, which would be highly inconvenient for these institutions, with many trustees and members from Villanueva de Sijena, or even located there. González (Aragonese, born in Zaragoza, where he stayed until he obtained his baccalaureate) lives and works in Tudela, where he claims that \"De Villanueva\" was actually born, and his research on the 10 new works by Servetus has been supported by a grant from the Health Department of the regional government of Navarre, but even while he was still defending his birthplace in Aragon, for he had not done any research on his identity. In a similar way events on this issue organized in Villanueva de Sijena and in Zaragoza have been supported by the regional government of Aragon.\n\nRegardless of whether he was really born in Villanueva of Aragon or in Tudela of Navarre, or somewhere else, the fact is that he was known as \"Michael Servetus of Aragon\" after his death by everybody, including Calvin and other enemies, his antitrinitarian supporters, and sympathetic authors such as Sebastian Castellio, and many others, both admirers and enemies of those theological works published by Servetus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32186626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32186626", "title": "Mohamed Ibrahim Mostafa", "text": "Mohamed Ibrahim Mostafa\n\nMohamed Ibrahim Mostafa (, other transliterations include: \"Mohammad, Muhammad, Ibraheem, Mustafa, Mustapha\") (born 2 July 1979) is an Egyptian Internet activist and IT consultant with an interest in political reform, human rights, and social media. Mohamed Ibrahim ran the international arm of the \"We are all Khaled Said\" campaign. The campaign was in support of Khaled Said's case, a young Egyptian man who was killed by two Egyptian police officers in his home town Alexandria, Egypt. Khaled Said later became a symbol in the Egyptian Revolution of 2011. Mohamed Ibrahim focused his efforts on rallying international supporters and coordinating with activists worldwide to support Egyptians struggle for freedom, end of police brutality and dictatorship using his English Facebook page \"We are all khaled Said\" and the English Website of the campaign. Mohamed Ibrahim was part of the 25 January protests preparation (which later became the Egyptian Revolution of 2011) and was a focal point for spreading awareness to the international community and international media during the revolution and afterwards.\n\nMohamed Ibrahim was born on 2 July 1979 in Alexandria, Egypt and grew up in Cairo Egypt. His father was an Egyptian Army General and his mother is an accountant. At the age of 22, he moved to London, United Kingdom. He currently resides there.\n\nHe earned a B.Eng. from Ain Shams University in 2001 and a M.Sc. in Software Engineering from the University of Nottingham in 2003.\n\nMohamed's career to date has included working as a senior consultant at a multinational consultancy and software development manager for a UK-based software house.\n\nIn 2010, Mohamed Ibrahim founded the English Facebook page \"we are all Khaled Said\" few days after the death of Khaled Said,the young Egyptian who was tortured to death by Egyptian police in Alexandria. Mohamed Ibrahim worked with Wael Ghonim, the founder of the Arabic Facebook page \"We are all Khaled Said\", and formed up the \"We are all Khaled Said\" movement with the two Facebook Arabic and English pages. The movement co-ordinated with other Egyptian Activists and called for the 25 January protests all over Egypt which later became Egyptian Revolution of 2011. He co-ordinated his work with other activists inside and outside Egypt and did interviews with international media about the revolution. He did interviews with the Morning Radio show, BBC Radio 5, Channel Four news, DW World and several other international media outlets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16386008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16386008", "title": "Panagiotis Karatzas", "text": "Panagiotis Karatzas\n\nPanagiotis Karatzas (; 17th century – 1824) was a Greek revolutionary leader in Patras during the Greek Revolution of 1821. During his childhood years he showed his bravery and defiance against the Turkish and often fighting with Turkish peers. He fled for the Ionian Islands, which were then under English rule, and moved to Zakynthos and enrolled into the British Army in the 3rd Greek Legion. He returned to Patras in 1809.\n\nHe was one of the main commanders during the Siege of Patras (1821). He was against the Ottoman era local kodjabashis of the area. He was murdered by Greek rivals in 1824.\n\n"}
{"id": "17425614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17425614", "title": "Piva (tribe)", "text": "Piva (tribe)\n\nPiva (Montenegrin Cyrillic: Пива; ) is a historical region in Montenegro, which existed as a tribe also known as Pivljani (Пивљани, ). It is situated in the northwestern highlands of Montenegro, bordering the Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Piva river flows through the region. Regional center is the town of Plužine.\n\nPiva was a \"nahiya\" of the Ottoman Empire, mentioned in the 1476–78 \"defter\". It was earlier mentioned in the \"Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja\" (ca. 1300–10) as one of ten counties in the province of Podgorje, and in the St. Stephen Chrysobull of Serbian king Stefan Milutin (r. 1282–1321). It was part of Sanjak of Herzegovina during Ottoman rule.\n\nThe Serbian Orthodox Piva Monastery has been standing in Piva since the 16th century. It has produced four Patriarchs of the Serbian Orthodox Church.\n\nUnder Prince Nicholas I of Montenegro and the Congress of Berlin recognition, in 1878 the Piva together with the Serb Herzegovinian tribes of Banjani, Nikšići, Šaranci, Drobnjaci and a large number of the Rudinjani formed the Old Herzegovina region of the new Montenegrin state.\n\nDuring the Second World War, people of the region fought in both the Serbian royalist Chetnik and communist Partisan resistance movements, which fought against each other.\n\nThe tribe has since the arrest of Radovan Karadžić, the wartime Bosnian Serb president and member of the neighbourly Drobnjak tribe of Petnjica (from which also the Serbian language reformer Vuk Karadžić descends), petitioned for Tadić's excommunication from the tribe because of Karadžić's arrest. The arrest is seen as directly bad behavior against the Serbian people and from the Piva against the Drobnjak tribe, who had never before had any problems, and it is because of this Tadić's actions have been condemned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56808770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56808770", "title": "Pradyot Kumar Bhattacharya", "text": "Pradyot Kumar Bhattacharya\n\nPradyot Kumar Bhattacharya (13 November 1913 - 12 January 1933) was a Bengali revolutionary and activist of the Indian freedom movement. He was hanged in Midnapore Central jail.\n\nBhattacharya was born in Medinipur, in British India. His father's name was Bhabataran Bhattacharya. He joined in the anti-British movement and Jugantar group while studying in Midnapore College. The revolutionaries of the Bengal Volunteers decided to assassinate ruthless Second magistrate Mr. Robert Doglas because he was responsible for killing two unarmed activists in Hijli Detention Camp. On 30 April 1932, Prabhanshu Kumar Pal and Bhattacharya fired on the magistrate while he was presiding over a meeting of the Zilla District Board. Pal escaped but Bhattacharya was caught on the spot with the revolver. Pradyot did not utter any name in spite of severe torture by the police.\n\nOn 12 January 1933 Bhattacharya was punished by hanging in Medinipur Central Jail but Prabhanshu remained untraced.\n"}
{"id": "40854458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40854458", "title": "Public image of Vladimir Putin", "text": "Public image of Vladimir Putin\n\nThe public image of Vladimir Putin concerns the image of Vladimir Putin, current President of Russia, among residents of Russia and worldwide.\n\nAccording to public opinion surveys conducted by NGO Levada Center, Putin's approval rating was 81% in June 2007, and the highest of any leader in the world, other than that of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who received a 93% public approval rating in September 1997. Putin's popularity rose from 31% in August 1999 to 80% in November 1999, never dropping below 65% during his first presidency. In January 2013, his approval rating fell to 62%, the lowest point since 2000 and a ten-point drop over two years. Observers see Putin's high approval ratings as a consequence of the significant improvements in living standards and Russia's reassertion of itself on the world scene that occurred during his tenure as President. One analysis attributed Putin's popularity, in part, to state-owned or state-controlled television.\n\nA joint poll by \"World Public Opinion\" in the US and Levada Center  in Russia around June–July 2006 stated that \"neither the Russian nor the American publics are convinced Russia is headed in an anti-democratic direction\" and \"Russians generally support Putin's concentration of political power and strongly support the re-nationalization of Russia's oil and gas industry.\" Russians generally support the political course of Putin and his team. A 2005 survey showed that three times as many Russians felt the country was \"more democratic\" under Putin than it was during the Yeltsin or Gorbachev years, and the same proportion thought human rights were better under Putin than Yeltsin.\n\nAccording to a 2017 survey by the Worldwide Independent Network/Gallup International Association (WIN/GIA), Putin's international reputation has increased significantly over the past two years (43% favorable in 2017 compared with 33% in 2015).\n\nPutin was \"Time\" magazine's Person of the Year for 2007. In April 2008, Putin was put on the \"Time\" 100 most influential people in the world list.\n\nOn 4 December 2007, at Harvard University, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev credited Putin with having \"pulled Russia out of chaos\" and said he was \"assured a place in history\", despite Gorbachev's claim that the news media have been suppressed and that election rules run counter to the democratic ideals he has promoted\". In December 2011, amid the protests following the 2011 Russian elections Gorbachev criticized Putin for a decision to seek the third term in the presidential elections and advised Putin to leave politics.\n\nCriticism of Putin has been widespread especially over the Runet. It is said that the Russian youth organisations finance a full \"network\" of pro-government bloggers.\n\nIn the U.S. embassy cables, published by WikiLeaks in late 2010, Putin was called \"alpha dog\" and compared with Batman (while Dmitry Medvedev was compared with Batman's crime-fighting partner Robin). American diplomats said Putin's Russia had become \"a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a \"virtual mafia state.\" Putin called it \"slanderous\".\n\nBy western commentators and the Russian opposition, Putin has been described as a dictator. Putin biographer Masha Gessen has stated that \"Putin is a dictator,\" comparing him to Alexander Lukashenko. Former UK Foreign Secretary David Miliband has described Putin as a \"ruthless dictator\" whose \"days are numbered.\" U.S. Presidential candidate Mitt Romney called Putin \"a real threat to the stability and peace of the world.\"\n\nIn the fall of 2011, the anti-Putin opposition movement in Russia became more visible, with street protests against allegedly falsified parliamentary elections (in favor of Putin's party, United Russia) cropping up across major Russian cities. Following Putin's re-election in March 2012, the movement struggled to redefine its new course of action. In early September 2014 Patriarch Filaret, head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyivan Patriarchate, linked Putin with the biblical figure Cain because Filaret believed that although Putin claimed to be their “brother” he was responsible for \"shedding the brotherly blood\" of Ukrainians during the War in Donbass. Filaret believed \"Satan went into him, as into Judas Iscariot\". The Dalai Lama criticized Putin's foreign policy practices, claiming it to be responsible for isolating Russia from the rest of the world.\nThe Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project named Putin as the 2014 Person of the Year, recognizing \"the person who does the most to enable and promote organized criminal activity.\"\n\nPutin enjoys high levels of support in Russia.\n\nAccording to Denis Volkov from Moscow Levada Center drawing any conclusions from Russian poll results or comparing them with Western polls is pointless as there's no real political competition in Russia. Unlike in democratic states the Russian voters aren't offered any \"credible alternatives\" and the public opinion is formed primarily with state-controlled media which promotes the ruling party and discredits any alternative candidates. This kind of illusion of democracy, choice only between \"A and A\" is part of \"Russian consciousness\" according to a nationalist publicist Alexander Prokhanov who considers the \"elections between A and B\" to be part of a \"liberal\" mindset.\n\nPutin's name and image are widely used in advertisements and product branding. Among Putin-branded products are Putinka vodka, the PuTin brand of canned food, \"Gorbusha Putina\" caviar, and a collection of T-shirts with his image. In October 2016, the luxury company, Caviar, produced a limited series of iPhone 7s made from Damascus steel called Supremo Putin Damascus. It features a golden bas-relief portrait of Putin.\n\nPutin tries to create an outdoor, sporty, tough guy public image, demonstrating his physical capabilities and taking part in unusual or dangerous acts, such as extreme sports and interaction with wild animals. For example, in 2007, the tabloid \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" published a huge photograph of a bare-chested Putin vacationing in the Siberian mountains under the headline: \"Be Like Putin.\" Such photo ops are part of a public relations approach that, according to \"Wired\", \"deliberately cultivates the macho, take-charge superhero image\". The British tabloid \"Daily Express\" has commented that this cultivated image runs counter to the reality of Putin's modest physical stature, his height being officially reported as 5'7\", and some of the activities used to promote his virile prowess have been criticised for involving deception or being completely staged. Notable examples of Putin's macho adventures include:\n\n\n\nOn 11 December 2010, at a concert organized for a children's charity in Saint Petersburg, Putin sang \"Blueberry Hill\" with Maceo Parker's jazz band and played a little piano of it and of the Russian patriotic song \"\" from his favourite spy movie \"The Shield and the Sword\". After that he took part in singing of a Russian song about cosmonauts, \"Grass by the Home\". The concert was attended by various Hollywood and European stars such as Kevin Costner, Sharon Stone, Alain Delon, and Gérard Depardieu. Putin also played or sang \"С чего начинается Родина\" on a number of other occasions, such as a meeting with the Russian spies deported from the U.S., including Anna Chapman.\nAnother melody which Putin is known to play on the piano is the , his native city.\n\nPutin's painting \"Узор на заиндевевшем окне\" (\"A Pattern on a Hoarfrost-Encrusted Window\"), which he had painted during the Christmas Fair on 26 December 2008, became the top lot at the charity auction in Saint Petersburg and sold for 37 million rubles. The picture was made for a series of other paintings by famous Russians. The painters were required to illustrate one of the letters of the Russian alphabet with a subject connected to Nikolay Gogol's novel \"Christmas Eve\" (the 200th anniversary from Gogol's birth was celebrated in 2008). Putin's picture depicted a hoarfrost pattern (Russian: Узор, illustrating the Cyrillic letter У) on a window with curtains sewn with traditional Ukrainian ornaments. The creation of the painting coincided with the 2009 Russia–Ukraine gas dispute, which left a number of European states without Russian gas and amid January frosts.\n\nA Russian movie called \"A Kiss not for Press\" was premiered in 2008 on DVD. The movie is said to be based on biography of Vladimir Putin and his wife Lyudmila. Dobby, a house elf from \"Harry Potter\" film series, has been found to look like Putin, and so was also Daniel Craig in his role of James Bond (he was the first blond actor to play James Bond).\n\nThere are a large number of songs about Putin. Some of the more popular include:\n\n\nPutin also is a subject of Russian jokes and chastushki, such as the popular \"[Before Putin] There Was No Orgasm\" featured in the comedy film \"\". There is a meta-joke that, since the coming of Putin to power, all the classic jokes about a smart yet rude boy called \"Вовочка\" (\"Vovochka\", diminutive from Vladimir) have suddenly become political jokes.\n\nPutin features in the colouring book for children \"Vova and Dima\" (presented on his 59th birthday), where he and Dmitry Medvedev are drawn as good-behaving little boys, and in the \"Superputin\" online comics series, where Putin and Medvedev are portrayed first as superheroes, and then as a troll and an orc in the World of Warcraft.\n\nVladimir Putin was portrayed by internet personality Nice Peter in his YouTube series \"Epic Rap Battles of History\", in Season 2's finale episode, \"Rasputin vs. Stalin\" (aired on April 22, 2013).\n\nIn 2014, Putin earned a popular nickname of \"dickhead\" or \"fuckface\" (\"хуйло\" in Russian and Ukrainian) following the spread of the very popular chant of football hooligans in Ukraine. On 14 June 2014, Ukraine's acting Foreign Minister Andriy Deshchytsia cited the chant in front of the cameras during an anti-Russian rally at Russia's Embassy in Kyiv \n\nPutin has produced a large number of popular aphorisms and catch-phrases, known as \"putinisms\". Many of them were first made during his annual Q&A conferences, where Putin answered questions from journalists and other people in the studio, as well as from Russians throughout the country, who either phoned in or spoke from studios and outdoor sites across Russia. Putin is known for his often tough and sharp language. The examples of most popular putinisms include:\n\n"}
{"id": "43724627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43724627", "title": "Raul Krauthausen", "text": "Raul Krauthausen\n\nRaúl Aguayo-Krauthausen (born 1980 in Lima, Peru) is a German disability rights activist. He studied Social and Economic Communication at the Berlin University of the Arts and Design Thinking at the HPI School of Design Thinking. He was awarded the Order of Merit of Germany and is an Ashoka Fellow.\n\nTogether with his cousin he founded the nonprofit organisation Sozialhelden in 2004. The organisation develops projects which address social issues and offer practical solutions in a spirit of diversity and inclusion. Their fundraising project , which raises funds for other nonprofit organisations through donated bottle recycling receipts, received the Startsocial prize from Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2008. In 2010, Wheelmap.org, a crowdsourced online map for finding and marking wheelchair accessible places was launched by Sozialhelden. The map, which is available in 22 languages, is based on OpenStreetMap and operates under a Creative-Commons license.\n\nIn addition to his work for Sozialhelden Raúl Krauthausen co-founded Selfpedia.de in 2013, an online self-help community for questions and advice pertaining to life with a disability. Raúl Krauthausen is a frequent guest on talk shows and a popular interview partner for journalists regarding topics related to disability rights, accessibility and inclusion.\n\nOne of the newest Sozialhelden projects is Leidmedien.de, an online platform for journalists and others whose work involves the portrayal of people with disabilities. Through advocacy, articles, workshops and informational materials Leidmedien.de offers perspectives on life with a disability which steer away from stereotypes and clichés.\n\nIn 2014 Raúl Krauthausen developed a printable 3D mini-ramp which can be used to overcome sidewalk curbs in a wheelchair.\n\nRaúl Krauthausen has osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, and uses a wheelchair.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "849641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849641", "title": "Richard A. Cohen", "text": "Richard A. Cohen\n\nRichard A. Cohen (born 1952) is an author and a proponent of conversion therapy. Cohen founded Parents and Friends of Ex-Gays and Gays and was its president, and founded the International Healing Foundation, through which he promotes his theories on sexual orientation change efforts for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people. Cohen, who was gay in his youth, underwent years of psychotherapy in an attempt to heal childhood issues which he felt had led to his homosexuality. He says that his therapy and personal growth helped him to understand his same-sex attractions, and to eventually transition to heterosexuality.\n\nCohen lives in Washington, D.C., with his wife and has three adult children. His foundation, the International Healing Foundation, offers psychotherapy, coaching, teleconferencing classes, and healing seminars for members of the LGBT community and those with unwanted same-sex attraction.\n\nCohen has described a troubled childhood that he regards as the cause of his homosexuality later in life.\n\nHe belongs to a Jewish family which attended a Reform Judaism synagogue. He became a bar mitzvah and was confirmed in that synagogue. While attending Boston University, he became an evangelical Christian, and he later joined the Unification Church (which disapproves of homosexual behavior), where he says he remained celibate for long periods. In 1982, Cohen married Jae Sook, a South Korean woman suggested to him by church leader Sun Myung Moon. Cohen says that, during the first three years of his marriage, he underwent psychotherapy but was unable to find the help he needed, and therefore he found some healing with a boyfriend in New York City. Cohen describes this as a tumultuous period that led him to pursue healing from his past.\n\nCohen received a bachelor of arts degree from Boston University and a master's degree in counseling psychology from Antioch University.\n\nCohen founded the International Healing Foundation in 1990, a nonprofit and tax-exempt organization that promotes conversion therapy.\n\nHe is not licensed as a therapist. In order to get around the licensing requirement, he asks for donations to his foundation instead of requiring payment. He has said: \"I am not doing therapy per se. I'm coaching.\" Today, he trains therapists and clergy worldwide how to assist members of the LGBT community and those who experience unwanted same-sex attraction.\n\nIn 2002, Cohen was permanently expelled from the American Counseling Association (ACA), after it accused him of six violations of its ethics code, which bars members from actions which \"seek to meet their personal needs at the expense of clients, those that exploit the trust and dependency of clients, and for soliciting testimonials or promoting products in a deceptive manner.\"\n\nCohen stated that the expulsion was for his efforts in the ex-gay movement, specifically for the book \"Coming Out Straight\", and for one complaint. He did not appeal, and called the ACA \"a biased organization\" and \"a totally gay-affirming club\".\n\nThe ACA is the world's largest professional organization representing the counseling profession. None of the major mental health or medical professional organizations, including the American Counseling Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, the National Association of Social Workers, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Medical Association, the National Association of School Psychologists, or the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy believe reparative therapy is effective or necessary, and they caution that it can be very harmful to the patient, resulting in an increased instance of clinical depression and/or suicide. After his expulsion, Cohen did not seek licensure as he was transitioning into full-time teaching.\n\nAccording to the American Psychological Association (APA) and numerous other professional health organizations, there is no conclusive evidence that sexual orientation can be changed through counseling or other means. According to a statement by the APA, they are \"concerned about ongoing efforts to mischaracterize homosexuality and promote the notion that sexual orientation can be changed, and about the resurgence of sexual orientation change efforts.\" Their official statement goes on to state that clinicians should approach clients who express a desire to change their sexual orientation by \"affirmative multiculturally competent and client-centered approaches that recognize the negative impact of social stigma on sexual minorities, and balance ethical principles of beneficence and nonmaleficence, justice, and respect for people’s rights and dignity.\"\n\nCohen has given numerous interviews in newspapers, on radio shows, and on television shows, including \"Rachel Maddow\", \"20/20\", \"Larry King Live\", \"The O'Reilly Factor\", \"Jimmy Kimmel Live\", \"Ricki Lake\", and \"Paula Zahn Now\". Cohen was also featured in an episode of \"\". In 2014, Cohen appeared in a documentary by Blackstone Films entitled \"The Third Way: Homosexuality and the Catholic Church.\"\n\nCohen was interviewed by Jason Jones on the March 19, 2007, episode of \"The Daily Show\". Cohen was on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" on June 28, 2006, was interviewed on \"The Rachel Maddow Show\" on December 8, 2009, and was on \"The Michelangelo Signorile Show\" on the Sirius radio network on April 17, 2010.\n\nCohen claims there were multiple causes of his same-sex attraction, such as abuse by his uncle, over-attachment to his mother, and lack of sufficient father-son bonding. He mentioned that repeated molestation by a male relative was just one factor that caused him to develop same-sex attraction. He says that dealing with the psychological damage that resulted from the abuse and from other factors allowed him to revert to his \"natural heterosexuality\". He believes that all homosexuals are actually heterosexuals who can find peace and self-esteem through healing and restoration of their natural heterosexuality.\n\nIn Cohen's 2001 book \"Coming Out Straight\", he calls homosexuality a \"same-sex attachment disorder\", and details his methods of sexual reorientation therapy. He outlines his theory of the causes of same-sex attraction (among them lack of bonding between father-son and mother-daughter, over-attachment with the opposite-sex parent, lack of same-gender peer bonding, hypersensitive temperament, potential sexual abuse, and other factors) and his methods of changing sexual orientation, and relays stories of people who have undergone his therapies.\n\nCohen describes the \"hidden meanings\" of same-sex attraction as:\n\nCohen believes that there are temperamental, familial, and environmental causes for same-sex attraction in men and women. Cohen uses a variety of therapeutic techniques, including: behavior therapy, cognitive therapy, psychodynamic modalities and bioenergetics.\n\nCohen also uses holding therapy, which involves using physical touch and repeating affirming words to attempt to establish healthy, non-sexual bonding that may have been absent during childhood. In Cohen's counselor-training program manual, he states that only opposite-sex attracted mentors or same-gender parents should give holding therapy, and he quotes from his own 2000 book \"Coming Out Straight\" that the mentor should not be the same person as the therapist. However, in a televised interview with Paula Zahn on CNN, he is shown hugging a patient who is lying in his lap, and explaining that the patient didn't experience proper nurturing growing up.\n\nCohen has said, \"If someone wants to live a gay life, that needs to be respected. If someone wants to change and come out straight, that too needs to be respected. Let us practice true tolerance, real diversity, and equality for all.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "633877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=633877", "title": "Sam (Book of Mormon)", "text": "Sam (Book of Mormon)\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, Sam was the third son of Lehi, and elder brother to the prophet Nephi. Early in the Book of Mormon narrative, Nephi confided in Sam. Lehi saw Sam in his vision of the tree of life, noting that he ate the precious fruit, symbolizing the righteousness of Sam, and that he would be saved. Upon the death of Lehi, Sam followed his brother Nephi in the establishment of the Nephites.\n\nAmong LDS linguists, the leading (unofficial) theory of the origin of the name \"Sam\" is that it is most likely a Hebrew dialectal form of \"Shem\".\n\nIn \"\", adapted from First and Second Nephi, Laman was portrayed by Kirby Heyborne. The portrayals were highly influenced by Arnold Friberg paintings of the characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "4406672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4406672", "title": "Samuel Alken", "text": "Samuel Alken\n\nSamuel Alken Sr. (London October 22, 1756 – November 9, 1815 London) was an English artist, a leading exponent of the newly developed technique of aquatint.\n\nSamuel Alken entered the Royal Academy Schools, London, as a sculptor in 1772. He published \"A New Book of Ornaments Designed and Etched by Samuel Alken\" in 1779, and later established himself as one of the most competent engravers in the new technique of aquatint.\n\nHis works included plates after George Morland, Richard Wilson, Thomas Rowlandson and Francis Wheatley. His plates for \"Sixteen views of the lakes in Cumberland and Westmorland\" after drawings John Emes and John Smith were published in 1796, and a set of aquatint views of North Wales after drawings by the Rev. Brian Broughton in 1798.\n\nThe Alken family claims several well-known artists.\n\nThere are some sporting paintings signed \"S. Alken\", but they may be the work of his eldest son, Samuel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39667273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39667273", "title": "Santhanam filmography", "text": "Santhanam filmography\n\nThe following is the filmography of Santhanam, an Indian film actor who has predominantly appeared in Tamil films as a comedian. He began his career on television shows including Vijay TV's \"Lollu Sabha\" enacting the lead role in spoofs of Tamil films. He was subsequently given a chance by actor Silambarasan in a supporting role in \"Manmadhan\" (2004) and then was signed on to appear in films including \"Sachien\" (2005) and \"Polladhavan\" (2007). He appeared in a one-off leading role in Shankar's production \"Arai En 305-il Kadavul\" (2008) and subsequently became a staple feature as a comedian in successful Tamil films during the period, with his market popularity helping stuck films find distributors. Santhanam has also had embarked on collaborations with directors including M. Rajesh's comic trilogy of \"Siva Manasula Sakthi\" (2009), \"Boss Engira Bhaskaran\" (2010) and \"Oru Kal Oru Kannadi\" (2012).\n"}
{"id": "10393509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10393509", "title": "Star Collector", "text": "Star Collector\n\n\"Star Collector\" is a song written by Gerry Goffin and Carole King in 1967 and recorded by The Monkees (with lead vocals by Davy Jones). The song is included on their fourth album, \"Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn & Jones Ltd.\" It was also featured in five second-season episodes of their television series: \"The Wild Monkees\", \"Hitting the High Seas\", \"Monkees Watch Their Feet\", \"Monkees in Paris\" and \"Monkees Mind Their Manor\". \"The Wild Monkees\" uses an early mix of the song (without Moog synthesizer) while the other episodes use the released mix.\n\nThe song is about the phenomenon of groupies, and takes a dismissive attitude toward them (\"Think I'll let her keep on going, wherever it is she's going to / Give her an autograph and tell her 'It's been nice knowing you'\"... \"It won't take much time / Before I get her off my mind\").\n\nThe Monkees's version of the song was one of the first pop records to include a Moog synthesizer, played and programmed by synthesist Paul Beaver. Peter Tork didn't think much of Beaver's performance, and told Rhino Records later \"He played it like it was a flute or something,\" preferring Micky Dolenz's more random use of the Moog on \"Daily Nightly\" (which also appeared on \"Pisces\") to produce spacey sounds.\n\nLead vocal by Davy Jones\n\nHarmony vocals: Micky Dolenz\n\nBacking vocals: Micky Dolenz, Davy Jones, Chip Douglas, and Unknown\n\nSpoken words: Micky Dolenz\n\nElectric guitar: Michael Nesmith\n\nBass: Chip Douglas\n\nDrums: Eddie Hoh\n\nOrgan: Peter Tork\n\nMoog synthesizer: Paul Beaver\n"}
{"id": "548300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548300", "title": "This is Your Day", "text": "This is Your Day\n\nThis is Your Day is a Christian television show hosted by Pastor Benny Hinn and broadcast several times a week in the United States and globally by the Trinity Broadcasting Network, the Daystar Television Network, Revelation TV, Grace TV, VisionTV, INSP Networks, The God Channel and various local affiliates to an estimated four million followers. The program began airing in 1990 and is a half-hour long.\n\nDuring the program, Benny Hinn and his guests teach, read letters, pray, and show highlights from Hinn's \"Miracle Healing Services.\" Hinn and his crew travel the world frequently, and a large part of the show is devoted to his global services, in which Hinn is said to imbue people with the power of the Holy Spirit. Many claim to have risen from wheelchairs, or to have been healed of other ailments. Towards the final portion of the program Hinn offers gifts such as books, CDs, DVDs and downloadable materials as a thank-you to viewers who donate to the ministry. He then prays for the prayer needs of his viewing audience. Finally he concludes with an invitation for viewers to receive Jesus as their personal savior.\n\nThe program has generated controversy due to widespread skepticism about Hinn's faith healings depicted in the show. Investigative news programs such as \"Inside Edition\", \"Dateline NBC\", and \"the fifth estate\" claim that Hinn uses the power of suggestion to make crusade attendees fall on stage and believe they're cured.\n\n"}
{"id": "3157841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3157841", "title": "Trevor Peacock", "text": "Trevor Peacock\n\nTrevor Peacock (born 19 May 1931) is an English stage and television character actor and former screenwriter and songwriter. He is best known for playing Jim Trott in the BBC comedy series \"The Vicar of Dibley\", alongside Dawn French. He was born in Tottenham, North London, the son of Alexandria and Victor Peacock.\n\nHis many television roles include Jim Trott in \"The Vicar of Dibley\", Rouault in \"Madame Bovary\" (opposite Keith Barron), Quilp in \"The Old Curiosity Shop\" and Old Bailey in \"Neverwhere\". He appeared in diverse programmes such as \"EastEnders\" (playing Sid, a war veteran Alfie Moon met in France), LWT's \"Wish Me Luck\" (in which he played resistance leader Renard), \"Jonathan Creek\", \"Between the Lines\" and \"My Family\".\n\nHe had starring roles in several of the BBC Shakespeare series, including the title role in \"Titus Andronicus\", Feste in \"Twelfth Night, or What You Will\", Lord Talbot in \"Henry VI, Part 1\" and Jack Cade in \"Henry VI, Part 2\". He was the Gravedigger in Franco Zeffirelli's 1990 film version of \"Hamlet\", Old Joe in the 1999 Patrick Stewart version of \"A Christmas Carol\", and the Innkeeper in the 2000 made-for-television film version of \"Don Quixote\".\n\nHe played the father of Father Christmas in the 2007 film \"Fred Claus\" co-starring Vince Vaughn and Paul Giamatti. In July 2009 he also had a bit part in the TV drama \"Hotel Babylon\". He has also appeared as \"Captain Zero\" in the BBC TV series \"Last of The Summer Wine\" (1990) and as Maurey in The Sins (2000). In 2012 he played George in \"Quartet\", a British comedy-drama film based on the play of the same title.\n\nPeacock is also a noted songwriter. He wrote the 1960s pop classic \"Mrs. Brown, You've Got a Lovely Daughter\", which was recorded by Herman's Hermits. Other hit songs to his credit include \"Mystery Girl\" (recorded by Jess Conrad), \"Made You\" (Adam Faith), \"Gossip Calypso\" (Bernard Cribbins), \"Stick Around\" (Billy Fury), \"That's What Love Will Do\" and \"Nature's Time For Love\" (both recorded by Joe Brown). \n\nPeacock wrote the lyrics for a number of hits by The Vernons Girls. The songs include \"Be Nice To Him Mama\", \"You Know What I Mean\", \"Funny All Over\" and \"We Love The Beatles\". He wrote the lyrics for the musical show, \"Passion Flower Hotel\" (music by John Barry), and for a musical based on the popular newspaper cartoon strip, \"Andy Capp\" (music by Alan Price). Before his acting career took off, he compered \"Drumbeat\" for the BBC and wrote scripts for \"Oh Boy!\" and \"Six-Five Special\". He starred in the 1991 fantasy BBC radio play \"Heart of Hark'un\". In 2002 he filmed an episode of \"Dinotopia\" in Budapest; playing the mysterious sage Lok in \"Night of the Wartosa\". In 2010 he appeared in \"The Old Guys\" and \"I, Claudius\".\n\nPeacock has acted in the theatre throughout his career and has been particularly associated with the Royal Exchange, Manchester. In addition to performing in many productions since the theatre opened in 1976, he has also written a number of shows for the company. These include:\n\n\nHis acting credits include:\n\nPeacock has been married twice. His first marriage was to Iris Jones, from whom he is divorced. His second wife is Tilly Tremayne.\nPeacock has two sons, actors Daniel Peacock and Harry Peacock. He lived in the village of East Coker, Somerset and is a supporter of Yeovil Town F.C.\n"}
{"id": "2316487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2316487", "title": "Walter Tuchman", "text": "Walter Tuchman\n\nWalter Tuchman led the Data Encryption Standard development team at IBM. He was also responsible for the development of Triple DES.\n\n"}
{"id": "27643460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27643460", "title": "Workers (Gong Ren)", "text": "Workers (Gong Ren)\n\nWorkers () is a book of 143 portraits of migrant workers who participated in the construction of the Olympic Green in Beijing, China in the lead up to the 2008 Summer Olympics. The book is the work of British artist Helen Couchman and consists primarily of photographs of the workers on the building site. The workers were photographed with the iconic buildings of the Beijing Olympics: The Beijing National Stadium (国家体育场), known colloquially as the \"Bird's Nest\" (鸟巢), and the Beijing National Aquatics Center (国家游泳中心), also known as the \"Water Cube\" (水立方).\n\nAt the height of its construction, nearly 17,000 workers were involved in building the \"Bird's Nest\". \"Workers 工人\" documents the human side of construction with worker portraits, information on the workers themselves, and details on how Couchman carried out the project. In December 2007, Couchman circumvented security on the Olympic construction site and was able to approach the workers about taking their pictures. She later returned to the site with two copies of each photo, giving each of her subjects one copy to keep and asked the workers to write their name and hometown on the other. Couchman felt that the element of exchange was key to this project.\n\nIn the book's introduction, British art critic Peter Suchin writes that the way Couchman positions the workers at roughly the same spot for each portrait suggests they can also be seen as \"one single portrait, that of `the worker' engaged in the making of the Place of the Games ... the central focus, the essential signifier of the new Beijing\". Photographs from this series were exhibited in London, England and Hong Kong. Discussions of workers' rights have been raised in the context of this book, but it was not Couchman's reason for starting the project.\n\n"}
