{"id": "303864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303864", "title": "Abdullah (name)", "text": "Abdullah (name)\n\nAbdullah or Abdallah is the primary transliteration of the Arabic given name, , built from the Arabic words \"Abd\" and Allah (Allah itself composed of Al- and Ilah). The first letter \"a\" in \"Al-Ilah\" in its native pronunciation is often unstressed and commonly transliterated by \"u\", a stressed \"a\" is often used as well, although any vowel can also be used. It is one of many Arabic theophoric names, meaning \"servant of God\" or \" Gods Follower is also a meaning of this name. The feminine counterpart of this name is Amatullah.\n\nHumility before God is an essential value of Islam, hence \"Abdullah\" is a common name among Muslims. In particular, the name of the Islamic prophet Muhammad's father was Abdullah.\n\nIt is also common among Arab Jews, especially Iraqi Jews. The name is cognate to and has the same meaning as the Hebrew Abdiel and, more commonly, Obadiah. There were two Jewish Rabbis in Medina before Islam came; they were Abdullah ibn Salam and Abdullah ibn Shuria. Abdullah ibn Saba was a Yemenite Jew during the spread of Islam. The word \"Allah\" exists in the Arabic Talmud and other Jewish scriptures.\n\nThe variant used in the Russian language is \"\" (\"Abdulla\") (cf. Fedul, which has similar origins), with \"\" (\"Abdul\") and \"\" (\"Gabdulla\") often used in Adyghe.\n\nThe Christian Arabic Bible uses the word \"Allah\" for God. Presently in the Middle East, the name is sometimes used by Christians, as a given or family name. The continued use of this name is perhaps attributed to the passage in Matthew 25:14-30 which refers to the parable of talents and the three servants. The parable praises the good servants.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44102330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44102330", "title": "Aburom", "text": "Aburom\n\nAburom () is an old and rare Russian male first name. Included into various, often handwritten, church calendars throughout the 17th–19th centuries, it was omitted from the official Synodal Menologium at the end of the 19th century. It may have derived from the name of Mount Abarim, where, according to some legends, Moses had died. Another possibility is that the name derives from the Serbian Muslim word meaning \"Roma's father\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39307", "title": "Adrian and Natalia of Nicomedia", "text": "Adrian and Natalia of Nicomedia\n\nSaint Adrian (also known as Hadrian) or Adrian of Nicomedia (died 4 March 306) was a Herculian Guard of the Roman Emperor Galerius Maximian. After becoming a convert to Christianity with his wife Natalia, Adrian was martyred at Nicomedia.\n\nAdrian and Natalia lived in Nicomedia during the time of Emperor Maximian in the early fourth century. The twenty-eight-year-old Adrian was head of the praetorium.\n\nIt is said that while presiding over the torture of a band of Christians, he asked them what reward they expected to receive from God. They replied, \"Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.\" He was so amazed at their courage that he publicly confessed his faith, though he had not yet been baptized. He was then immediately imprisoned. He was forbidden visitors, but accounts state that his wife Natalia came to visit him, dressed as a boy, to ask for his prayers when he entered Heaven.\n\nThe executioners wanted to burn the bodies of the dead, but a storm arose and quenched the fire. Natalia recovered one of Adrian's hands.\n\nThe accuracy of the recorded story has been questioned. A second Hadrian, is said to have been a son of the Emperor Probus, and, having embraced Christianity, to have been put to death (A.D. 320), at Nicomedia in Asia Minor, by the Emperor Licinius. But no reliable information concerning him is extant. He is commemorated on August 26.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, Saint Hadrian shares a feast day with his wife on 26 August (Revised Julian calendar and/or Gregorian calendar), or on 8 September (most Orthodox Churches still use the historic Julian calendar); he also has feast days alone on 4 March. In the Roman Catholic Church, he is venerated alone, without his wife, on September 8.\n\nSaint Hadrian was the chief military saint of Northern Europe for many ages, second only to Saint George, and is much revered in Flanders, Germany and the north of France. He is usually represented armed, with an anvil in his hands or at his feet.\n"}
{"id": "43798418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43798418", "title": "Afife Kadın", "text": "Afife Kadın\n\nAfife Kadın (; 1685 – 12 June 1723) was a consort of Sultan Mustafa II of the Ottoman Sultan.\n\nEbu Bekir Efendi, a minister of state affairs presented her, at the age of ten, as a gift in the harem of Sultan Mustafa. It was probably Mustafa'a mother who gave Hafise to Mustafa as a concubine. She was a woman who was proud of having been elected to accompany the sultan on all his three campaigns. She had given birth to four sons and a daughter of the sultan. She was also visited by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu in early March 1718. Lady Mary called her the favourite of Sultan Mustafa.\n\nAfter Mustafa's death in 1703, she was immediately saluted with an absolute order to leave the seraglio and choose herself a husband from the great men at the Porte. She looked upon this liberty as the greatest disgrace and affront that could happen to her. She threw herself at the Sultan Ahmed III's feet and begged him to poniard her rather than use her brother's widow with that contempt. She represented to him, in agonies of sorrow, that she was privileged from this misfortune by having brought five princes to the Ottoman family. But all the boys being dead and only one girl surviving, this excuse was not received, and she was compelled to make her choice. \n\nShe chose Bekir Efendi, then secretary of state, and above, fourscore year old, to convince the world that she firmly intended to keep the vow she had made of never suffering a second husband to approach her bed, and since she must honour some subject so far as to be called his wife, she would choose him as a mark of her gratitude, since it was he that had presented her at the age of ten year to her lost lord. But she never permitted him to pay her one visit. She died in 1723.\n"}
{"id": "50236680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50236680", "title": "Alejandro Carrascosa", "text": "Alejandro Carrascosa\n\nAlejandro Colás Carrascosa Saavedra (April 2, 1901 – disappeared September 1922) was an Argentine poet, writer, and student. Though born into poverty, Alejandro was descended from a line of wealthy land owners and soldiers. It is believed that he disappeared in search of a lost family fortune.\n\nAlejandro is best known for his posthumously published story \"The Unfortunate Son\", though some theories hold that the story was only published under Carrascosa's name, and was actually written by Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges.\n\nAlejandro was raised on stories of his great-grandfather Antonio Ruiz Saavedra, a Spanish citizen who served the viceroy Gabriel de Avilés in Buenos Aires, and famously saved the viceroy's life from an assassination attempt in December 1800. When Gabriel de Avilés was promoted to Viceroy of Peru, Antonio Saavedra stayed in Buenos Aires, having fallen in love with and married María Alta Gracia, only daughter of a wealthy criollo family. As a parting gift, and in gratitude for having saved his life, the viceroy granted the couple a large landholding in the area surrounding Córdoba, María's hometown, which was 400 miles northwest of Buenos Aires.\n\nAntonio and María moved to Córdoba, where Antonio became rector of the University of Córdoba from 1805 up until the Argentine War of Independence began in 1810. Through the influence of his wife's family, Antonio had become a supporter of the revolutionary movement. He dedicated his substantial wealth to the effort for independence and, in return, it is believed certain revolutionary leaders, including Colonel Francisco Ortiz de Ocampo, signed an edict allowing him and his family to retain their lands after the war.\n\nAlejandro Nicolás Carrascosa Saavedra was born in the San Telmo neighborhood of Buenos Aires, on August 2, 1903. His parents were Juan Carrascosa and Ilena Saavedra. Though they lived in an upper-class neighborhood, by this time the family fortune was gone and Alejandro grew up poor. His father was a teacher in the local secondary school, who made certain that Alejandro received a good education. In particular, he taught his son to appreciate Argentine authors and poets. Alejandro's mother was a seamstress and gifted storyteller, who enchanted him with tales of the family legacy.\n\nBy the end of the war in 1818, Antonio had died and the family land was seized except for their home in Córdoba and a small residence in Buenos Aires—the edict signed by the revolutionary leaders was either lost, disregarded, or never existed. Antonio's son Gerinaldo Saavedra Alta Gracia, despite dispossession, was an ardent patriot of the new nation and, after moving to Buenos Aires, became a lieutenant in the Buenos Aires Army.\n\nThough he was denied a scholarship, through hard work and brutal frugality Carrascosa was able to attend classes at the University of Buenos Aires beginning in 1919. In the third year of pursuing a degree in law, Carrascosa's appreciation of poetry led him to join a meeting of the artist's group, the Ultraistas.\n\nThough he was not published in the group's \"Proa\" or \"Prisma\", he became a quiet and steady presence within the group, where he met such literary figures as Jorge Luis Borges, Ricardo Molinari, and Ramón Wanlass. Borges's grandfather had been a member of the Buenos Aires Army and had fought alongside Carrascosa's grandfather in the Battle of Pavón (1861). Though this likely would have been a source of amity between the two men, in an excerpt from one of Carrascosa's few surviving journals dated February 21, 1922, Alejandro wrote:\nCarrascosa told his artist friends about his great-grandfather's wealth and about the letter that Ocampo had conceivably signed guaranteeing the family's rights to the land. One of these friends informed Carrascosa that there was a large collection of historical documents from the time of the revolution that was kept in the archives of the old Jesuit library at the University of Córdoba. There is no record of this collection, but Carrascosa borrowed money and traveled to Córdoba on the friend's advice.\n\nThough he doubted that possession of this letter would return the land rights to his family, Carrascosa believed that he had a familial right to the paper itself, which would be of value. Also, he hoped the letter might improve the family's position in society.\n\nCarrascosa returned to Buenos Aires a month later, disillusioned and depressed. Not only had he not found the letter, but in the archives he had found no evidence at all of his great-grandfather Antonio Ruiz Saavedra. He told this to his friends, and one of them suggested that he check the National Library in Buenos Aires, where their connections would allow him to search the archive in depth.\n\nIn the National Library, the only paper Carrascosa found which included his great-grandfather's name was about a supply ship, the San Nicolás, which had disappeared in 1807 on the way up river to Corrientes, a city 600 miles north of Buenos Aires and nearly as far from Córdoba. At the time Corrientes was repelling a British invasion and the San Nicolás, carrying rations and wages for the city's garrison, was supposedly sunk long before reaching its destination. Antonio Ruiz Saavedra, Alejandro's great-grandfather, was listed as one of the few survivors.\n\nCarrascosa's friends remember his first visit to the National Library as a turning point. He continued returning to the library each day for the next month and stopped attending the artists' meetings. When his friends saw him, he always appeared in an elevated state of either agitation or excitement.\n\nThe journals that he did not destroy are mostly poetry. One poem, \"Legacy\" (a notably non-Ultraist example), later published as part of Carrascosa's \"Febrero, Enero\" collection, is often considered a hint about the obsession that may have been driving Carrascosa at this point:\nOn September 22, 1922, without telling his friends or parents, Carrascosa left Buenos Aires. He left no note as to his whereabouts, and burned most of his notebooks.\n\nThough never confirmed, Ramón Wanlass claimed to have seen Carrascosa during a visit to Cartagena in 1933. Xul Solar also believed that he ran into him in a book store in Havana in 1941.\n\nA different theory is that an unidentified body found a year after Carrascosa's disappearance actually belonged to the young writer. The body was found in Corrientes, on the grounds of an abandoned Jesuit church. It was decomposed beyond the point of identification, but was believed to be the victim of a stabbing. No suspects were ever brought forward.\n\nAlejandro Carrascosa was the author of one book of poems, \"Febrero, Enero\" (English: \"February, January\"), and several short stories, all published after his disappearance. His short story, \"El hijo desafortunado\" (English: \"The Unfortunate Son\"), was published five years after his disappearance and there are many unsupported theories that it is actually an early Borges effort at short fiction published under Carrascosa's name.\n\n"}
{"id": "27877574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27877574", "title": "Alice of Majorca", "text": "Alice of Majorca\n\nAlice of Majorca (1341 – after 1376) was a Cypriot noblewoman, the great-granddaughter of King James II of Majorca and granddaughter of King Hugh IV of Cyprus. Her husband was Philip of Ibelin, seneschal of Cyprus who was sent to prison in Genoa after his murder of Alicia's uncle, King Peter I. She became the mistress of Jean de Moustry, Grand Admiral of Cyprus.\n\nShe was born in Cyprus in 1341, the only child of Ferdinand, Viscount of Omélas, and Eschive de Lusignan, eldest daughter of King Hugh IV of Cyprus and Alix of Ibelin. Her paternal grandfather was Ferdinand, son of King James II of Majorca. At the time of her birth, her mother was being held in captivity by her grandfather King Hugh as a result of the latter's violent quarrel with Alice's father, Fernando, who had been expelled from the kingdom. The King had accused Ferdinand's mother, Isabella of Ibelin, of having practised sorcery. As her father died in exile in Omélas, sometime between the time of her birth and 1347, Alice never knew him.\n\nOn 26 July 1355, she married, as his second wife, one of her kinsmen, Philip of Ibelin, son of Balian. As they were related within the prohibited degrees, a papal dispensation was required for their marriage. Her uncle, who in 1358 had succeeded Hugh IV as King Peter I of Cyprus, was much displeased with Philip's marriage to Alice, who being his niece, was a close member of the Cypriot royal family. The King, in retaliation for Philip's temerity in marrying Alice, banished him from the kingdom. Alice was forcibly detained on the island, and forbidden to follow her husband in exile. It is not known whether or not she had any children by Philip. \n\nHer mother had died in 1363 during an outbreak of plague. Four years later, in 1367, Philip returned to Cyprus, and in 1369 assumed the role as leader of a revolt against King Peter, and of the group of barons who subsequently assassinated him. After the regicide, Peter's son, Peter, who was a minor, succeeded him, with his mother Eleanor, and his uncles John and James acting as his regents. Eleanor suspected John and James of having been part of the plot to murder Peter II. Philip was immediately appointed seneschal of Cyprus; however, following the Genoese invasion in 1373 (which Queen Eleanor had secretly arranged), he was first imprisoned at Famagusta, then sent to prison in Genoa, where he was beheaded in 1374/76.\n\nIn 1370, according to Rudt-Collenberg, Alice became the mistress of Jean de Moustry, the Grand Admiral of Cyprus. As with her husband, it is not recorded whether any children were born to her as a result of her affair with the admiral. There were also rumours that she had an affair with Genoese Admiral Pietro di Campo Fregosa and had connived at her husband's death. It was recorded in the \"Chronicle of Amadi\" that Alicia was so in love with the Genoese admiral that she had failed to intervene on Philip's behalf in order to save him from execution. \n\nAlice died on an unrecorded date sometime after 1376.\n"}
{"id": "2004854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004854", "title": "Alux", "text": "Alux\n\nAn alux (Mayan: , plural: \"aluxo'ob\" ) is the name given to a type of sprite or spirit in the mythological tradition of certain Maya peoples from the Yucatán Peninsula and Guatemala, also called Chanekeh or Chaneque by the Nahuatl people. Aluxo'ob are conceived of as being small, only about knee-high, and in appearance resembling miniature traditionally dressed Maya people. Tradition holds that aluxob are generally invisible but are able to assume physical form for purposes of communicating with and frightening humans as well as to congregate. They are generally associated with natural features such as forests, caves, stones, and fields but can also be enticed to move somewhere through offerings. Their description and mythological role are somewhat reminiscent of other sprite-like mythical entities in a number of other cultural traditions (such as the Celtic leprechaun), as the tricks they play are similar.\n\nSome Maya believe that the Aluxob are called into being when a farmer builds a little house on his property, most often in a maize field (\"milpa\"). For seven years, the alux will help the corn grow, summon rain and patrol the fields at night, whistling to scare off predators or crop thieves. At the end of seven years, the farmer must close the windows and doors of the little house, sealing the alux inside. If this is not done, the alux will run wild and start playing tricks on people. \n\nSome contemporary Maya even consider the single- and double-story shrines that dot the countryside to be \"kahtal alux\", the \"houses of the alux\" (although their true origins and purpose are unknown).\n\nStories say that they will occasionally stop and ask farmers or travellers for an offering. If they refuse, the aluxes will often wreak havoc and spread illness. However, if their conditions are met, it is thought the alux will protect a person from thieves or even bring them good luck. If they are treated with respect, they can be very helpful. \n\nIt is believed that it is not good to name them aloud, as it will summon a disgruntled alux from its home. \n\nThe word \"duende\" is sometimes used interchangeably with \"alux\". Duende is a Spanish word for a supernatural creature (commonly a goblin) or force. In fact, because of such striking similarities, some suspect that the Maya’s belief of aluxob developed through interactions with the Spanish or pirates during the 16th century. Pirates of that era were often from the British Isles, where belief in faeries was quite common, especially amongst those of lower socio-economic class (as pirates generally would have been). However, the Maya themselves would claim that the alux are the spirits of their ancestors, or the spirits of the land itself, preceding contact with Western civilization. \n\nThe supposition that aluxob featured in the mythical traditions of the pre-Columbian Maya is possibly supported by similar conceptions postulated from depictions in pre-Columbian artworks, but there is no direct evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24436883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24436883", "title": "Angelo Soliman", "text": "Angelo Soliman\n\nAngelo Soliman (born Mmadi Make c. 1721, probably in present-day northeastern Nigeria/northern Cameroon; he died on November 21, 1796, in Vienna) was an Austrian Freemason. He achieved prominence in the Viennese society and Freemasonry.\n\nAngelo Soliman probably belonged to the Kanuri ethnic group. His original name, Mmadi Make, is linked to a princely class in the Sokoto State in modern Nigeria. He was taken captive as a child and arrived in Marseilles as a slave, eventually transferring to the household of a marchioness in Messina who oversaw his education. Out of affection for another servant in the household, \"Angelina\", he adopted the name Angelo and chose to celebrate September 11, his baptismal day, as his birthday. After repeated requests, he was given as a gift in 1734 to Prince Georg Christian, Prince von Lobkowitz, the imperial governor of Sicily. He became the Prince's valet and traveling companion, accompanying him on military campaigns throughout Europe and reportedly saving his life on one occasion, a pivotal event responsible for his social ascension. After the death of Prince Lobkowitz, Soliman was taken into the Vienna household of Joseph Wenzel I, Prince of Liechtenstein, eventually rising to chief servant. Later, he became royal tutor of the heir to the Prince, Aloys I. On February 6, 1768 he married Magdalena Christiani, a young widow and sister of the French general François Etienne de Kellermann (1770–1835), Marshal of Napoleon Bonaparte, Duke of Valmy.\n\nA cultured man, Soliman was highly respected in the intellectual circles of Vienna and counted as a valued friend by Austrian Emperor Joseph II and Count Franz Moritz von Lacy. In 1783, he joined the Masonic lodge \"True Harmony\", whose membership included many of Vienna's influential artists and scholars of the time, among them the musicians Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Joseph Haydn as well the Hungarian poet Ferenc Kazinczy. Lodge records indicate that Soliman and Mozart met on several occasions. It is likely that the character Bassa Selim in Mozart's opera \"The Abduction from the Seraglio\" was based on Soliman. Eventually becoming the Grand Master of that lodge, Soliman helped change its ritual to include scholarly elements. This new Masonic direction rapidly influenced Freemasonic practice throughout Europe.\nSoliman is still celebrated in Massonic rites as \"Father of Pure Masonic Thought\", with his name usually transliterated as \"Angelus Solimanus\".\n\nDuring his lifetime Soliman was regarded as a model of the assimilation and perfectibility of Africans, but after his death he literally became a specimen of the \"African race\". Wigger and Klein distinguish four aspects of Soliman – the \"royal Moor\", the \"noble Moor\", the \"physiognomic Moor\" and the \"mummified Moor\". The first two designations refer to the years prior to his death. The term \"royal Moor\" designates Soliman in the context of enslaved Moors at European courts, where their skin color marked their inferiority and they figured as status symbols betokening the power and wealth of their owners. Bereft of his ancestry and original culture, Soliman was degraded to an \"exotic-oriental sign of his lord's standing\" who was not allowed to live a self-determined existence. The designation \"noble Moor\" describes Soliman as a former court Moor whose ascent up the social ladder due to his marriage with an aristocratic woman made his emancipation possible. During this time Soliman became a member of the Freemasons and as lodge Grand Master was certainly considered equal to his fellow Masons even though he continued to face a thicket of race and class prejudices.\n\nBeneath the surface appearance of integration lurked Soliman's remarkable destiny. Though he moved smoothly in high society, the exotic quality ascribed to him was never lost and over the course of his lifetime was transformed into a racial characteristic. The qualities used to categorize Soliman as a \"physiognomic Moor\" were set forth by pioneering Viennese ethnologists during his lifetime, framed by theories and assumptions concerning the \"African race\". He could not escape the taxonomic view that focused on typical racial characteristics, i.e., skin color, hair texture, lip size and nose shape. Neither his social standing nor his membership in the Freemasons could prevent his posthumous exploitation, leading to his ultimate status as the \"mummified Moor\".\n\nInstead of receiving a Christian burial, Soliman was – at the request of the director of the Imperial Natural History Collection – skinned, stuffed and made into an exhibit within this cabinet of curiosities. Decked out in ostrich feathers and glass beads, this mummy was on display until 1806 alongside stuffed animals, transformed from a reputable member of intellectual Viennese society into an exotic specimen. By stripping Soliman of the insignia of his lifetime achievements, ethnologists instrumentalized him as what they imagined to be an exemplary African \"savage\". Soliman's daughter Josefine sought to have his remains returned to the family, but her petitions were in vain. During the October revolution of 1848, the mummy burned. A plaster cast of Soliman's head made shortly after his death of a stroke in 1796 is still on display in the Rollett Museum in Baden. His grandsons were Eduard von Feuchtersleben, Austrian writer, and Ernst, Baron von Feuchtersleben, Austrian physician.\n"}
{"id": "19984249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19984249", "title": "Awelo", "text": "Awelo\n\nThe awelo (derived from Spanish \"abuelo\", meaning \"grandfather\") is the religious supernatural tribal protector that embodies the essence of the Tigua Indians. The awelo is similar to the kachinas found in other Puebloan societies. The awelo monitors the conduct of tribal members by punishing those who behave incorrectly. The awelo is believed to live near Cerro Alto Mountain. The awelo is represented by grandfather and grandmother buffalo masks, which are fed with smoke.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253780", "title": "Conaire Mór", "text": "Conaire Mór\n\nConaire Mór (the great), son of Eterscél, was, according to medieval Irish legend and historical tradition, a High King of Ireland. His mother was Mess Búachalla, who was either the daughter of Eochu Feidlech and Étaín, or of Eochu Airem and his daughter by Étaín. In the Old Irish saga \"Togail Bruidne Dá Derga\" he is conceived when his mother is visited by an unknown man who flies in her skylight in the form of a bird, and is brought up as Eterscél's son.\n\nAccording to the \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\", he took power after killing his predecessor, and his father's killer, Nuadu Necht. In \"Togail Bruidne Dá Derga\" he succeeds Eterscél directly. When Eterscél dies, a bull-feast is held. A bull is killed, a man eats his fill of its meat and drinks its broth, and sleeps as incantations are chanted over him. Whoever this man sees in his sleep will be the new king. He sees a naked man coming along the road to Tara with a stone in his sling. The young Conaire, meanwhile, is hunting birds in his chariot. He chases them into the sea, where they become armed men, announce themselves as Conaire's father's bird troop, and inform him that it is forbidden for him to hunt birds. The leader of the bird troop tells Conaire to go naked to Tara, where he will be made king, and places several \"geasa\" (taboos) on his reign. Among other things, he may not be preceded by three red men into the house of a red man. As he approaches Tara he is met by three kings carrying clothes for him, and when he arrives he is made king.\n\nHis reign is long and mostly peaceful. His end is told in the Old Irish epic \"Togail Bruidne Dá Derga\", \"The Destruction of Da Derga's Hostel\", in which events conspire to make him break his \"geasa\" one by one. After he has already broken several of them, he travels south along the coast of Ireland, he is advised to stay the night at Da Derga's Hostel, but as he approaches it, he sees three men dressed in red riding red horses arriving before him. \"Da Derga\" means \"Red God\". He realises that three red men have preceded him into the house of a red man, and another of his \"geasa\" has been broken. His three foster-brothers, the three sons of Dond Désa, whom Conaire had exiled to Alba (Britain) for their crimes, had made alliance with the king of the Britons, Ingcél Cáech, and they were marauding across Ireland with a large band of followers. They attack Da Derga's Hostel. Three times they attempt to burn it down, and three times the fire is put out. Conaire, protected by his champion Mac Cécht and the Ulster hero Conall Cernach, kills six hundred before he reaches his weapons, a further six hundred with his weapons. He asks for a drink, but all the water has been used to put out the fires. Mac Cécht travels across Ireland with Conaire's cup, but none of the rivers will give him water. He returns with a cup of water just in time to see two men cutting Conaire's head off. He kills both of them. Conaire's severed head drinks the water and recites a poem praising Mac Cécht. The battle rages for three more days. Mac Cécht is killed, but Conall Cernach escapes.\n\nHe had ruled for thirty or seventy years, depending on the source consulted. The \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\" synchronises his reign with that of the Roman emperor Augustus (27 BC – AD 14), and after the birth of Christ, and makes him contemporary with legendary provincial kings Conchobar mac Nessa, Cairbre Nia Fer and Ailill mac Máta. The chronology of Geoffrey Keating's \"Foras Feasa ar Éireann\" dates his reign to 63–33 BC, that of the \"Annals of the Four Masters\" to 110–40 BC.\n\nA descendant of Íar mac Dedad, Conaire belonged to the legendary Clanna Dedad, the legendary royal family of the Érainn. His descendants in Ireland and Scotland were known as the Síl Conairi. The last Gaelic king of Scotland from the line from Conaire Mór was Alexander III of Scotland, he was also seen by some as the last ever Gaelic King.\n\n"}
{"id": "11939501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11939501", "title": "Criticisms of Salvador Allende", "text": "Criticisms of Salvador Allende\n\nSalvador Allende, President of Chile, has inspired a variety of perceptions regarding his policies, personality and performance as a head of state. Around the world, journalists, polling organizations and others have documented the expression of an evolving array of opinions about him. More than thirty years after his death, Allende remains a controversial figure. Since Allende's death before the end of his presidential term, there has been much speculation as to what Chile would have been like had he been able to remain in power.\n\nAllende is often cited in non-academic discussions about whether a 'communist' government has ever been democratically elected. While Allende legitimately won a democratic election, the significance of this has been disputed by some because he only had a plurality, not a majority, in the popular vote. This voting pattern is not unknown in representative democracies.\n\nHis supporters argue that he did not win an outright majority because Christian Democrat Radomiro Tomić, running on a leftist platform similar to Allende's, split the Centrist vote. Tomic and Allende together gathered 64% of the vote, a clear majority. His opponents maintain that Allende went much farther to the left than the Centrist voters who supported Tomic could have expected. The Christian Democratic Party was supportive of a military intervention to remove Allende from office but began to disassociate itself from the 1973 coup d'état because of the violently repressive nature of the Pinochet regime.\n\nAllende is seen as a hero to many on the political Left. Some view him as a martyr who died for the cause of socialism. His face has even been stylized and reproduced as a symbol of Marxism, similar to the famous images of Che Guevara. Many view him as a victim of American imperialism. For his supporters, his greatest legacy was his conviction that socialism can be reached through a democratic and pacifist path. His legacy can be seen in the election of governments professing socialism in Venezuela and Bolivia.\n\nOthers view Allende much less favorably. He is criticized for his government's mass nationalization of private industry, alleged friendliness with more militant groups such as the Movement of the Revolutionary Left, and the supply shortages and hyperinflation that occurred during the latter years of his presidency; all these had combined to cause a strong polarization in the country and the committed opposition of the Christian Democratic Party at the time of the coup. He is also accused of having had an autocratic style, attempting to circumvent the Congress and the courts, and having a hostile attitude toward critical media.\n\nA common claim among opponents was the belief that Allende's closeness with Fidel Castro and Eastern bloc countries meant that he was planning to model the Chilean state along Cuban lines. Such allegations are highly controversial. One of the military junta's statements accused him of formulating the supposed \"Plan Z\", in which the Popular Unity government was accused to have planned a bloody coup of its own to install Allende as dictator. The junta alleged that the plot was to be no less than a blueprint for assassinations of military leaders and general \"mass murder\". The CIA later concluded, on September 18, 2000 that \"Plan Z\" was probably disinformation. Nevertheless, according to his opponents, Allende's own refusal to obey and/or enforce more than 7,000 Chilean Supreme Court and other legislative rulings (as detailed in the ) was a sign of dictatorial style in defiance of Chile's democratic government institutions.\n\nMost of the analyses on the Chilean situation by Marxists were based on political literature and studies published by Trotskyists. Trotsky’s theory of permanent revolution (1905) and Lenin’s work State and Revolution (1917) were heavily cited and referenced in light of Allende’s reformist ideas. The overthrow of his UP democratically elected government and its replacement with a capitalist military dictatorship only served to reinforce among orthodox Marxist the theoretical infallibility of applied Marxism.\n\nShortly after the military coup one of the most prominent opponent of Salvador Allende’s reformist policies, the young physician and MIR leader Miguel Enriquez stated:\n\nConversely, Albanian leader Enver Hoxha argued that the overthrow of the Allende Government was due in part to the \"revisionist\" reformism encouraged by the post-Joseph Stalin Soviet Union:\n\nControversy has surrounded Allende's 1933 doctoral dissertation \"Mental Hygiene and Delinquency\", the subject of the book \"Salvador Allende: Anti-Semitism and Euthanasia\" by Victor Farías, a Chilean-born teacher at the Latin America Institute of the Free University of Berlin. In his book, Farías claims that Allende held racist, homophobic and anti-semitic views, as well as believing at that time that mental illnesses, criminal behaviour, and alcoholism were hereditary.\n\nFarías' allegations have been challenged by the Spanish President Allende Foundation, which published various relevant materials on the internet, including the dissertation itself and a letter of protest sent by the Chilean Congress (and signed among others by Allende) to Adolf Hitler after Kristallnacht. The Foundation claims that in his thesis Allende was merely quoting Italian-Jewish scientist Cesare Lombroso, whereas he himself was critical of these theories. Farías maintains the affirmations that appear in his book. The President Allende Foundation replied publishing the entire original text of Lombroso and in April 2006 filed an anti-libel claim against Farías and his publisher in the Court of Justice of Madrid (Spain).\n\nFarías paraphrases of Lombroso have been much quoted; for example \"The Daily Telegraph\" (UK) reported 12 May 2005 that \"Allende... wrote: 'The Hebrews are characterised by certain types of crime: fraud, deceit, slander and above all usury. These facts permits the supposition that race plays a role in crime.' Among the Arabs, he wrote, were some industrious tribes but 'most are adventurers, thoughtless and lazy with a tendency to theft'\n\nThe \"Telegraph's\" quotation about the Jews appears to be a combination of two sentences that are not adjacent in the dissertation. Both are part of Allende's summary of Cesare Lombroso's views on different \"tribes\", \"races\" and \"nations\" being prone to different types of crime; the latter is misquoted. Allende's passage about the Jews reads \"The Hebrews are characterized by certain types of crime: fraud, deceit, defamation and, above all, usury. On the other hand, murders and crimes of passion are the exception.\" After recounting Lombroso's views, Allende writes, \"These data lead one to suspect that race influences crime. Nonetheless, we lack precise data to demonstrate this influence in the civilized world.\" The passage about Arabs is \"Among the Arabs there are some honored and hardworking tribes, and others who are adventurers, thoughtless and lazy with a tendency to theft.\" There is no statement that the latter applies to \"most\" Arabs.\n\nFarías further claims to have found evidence that Allende had tried to implement his ideas about heredity during his period as Health Minister 1939-1941, and that he received help from German Nazis E. Brücher and Hans Betzhold in drafting of an unsuccessful bill mandating forced sterilisation of alcoholics. The President Allende Foundation has challenged Farias in the Court of Justice of Madrid (Spain) to prove that any bill on this issue has been proposed by Minister Allende to the Chilean Government or Parliament, and to prove as well Farías' allegation that Allende was bribed by the Nazi foreign minister Joachim von Ribbentrop without providing any evidence of it.\n\nSurviving personal friends of Allende have completely rejected the validity of Victor Farías accusations of \"racism\" and \"anti-semitism\" for two major reasons: Allende's mother, Laura Gossens Uribe, was of Jewish descent and Allende considered himself a Marxist and socialist internationalist for most of his adult life.\n\nAllende’s supposed “anti-semitism” is left unfounded not only because of Allende’s own Jewish ancestry, which was well known in Chile, but by the fact that it was often used by his political detractors against him. The renowned neo-Nazi intellectual and former Chilean diplomat Miguel Serrano (who was the mentor to many in the fascist “Patria y Libertad” movement, which was instrumental in overseeing the CIA’s backed programme of destabilization in Chile) often spoke about Allende’s “Jewishness” or his “Judeo-Bolshevik” agenda.\n\nDuring his term in office, Allende - who was himself an atheist - supported a more ecumenical approach to national festivities and encouraged participation from the small Chilean Jewish community in celebrating Chile’s Independence Day, which had always been sanctified by the Roman Catholic Church. During his term in office, the Great Rabbi of Santiago, spiritual leader of the Jewish Community, had a principal role in the preparation of an ecumenical service for this event.\n\nFurther countering accusations of anti-semitism is the fact that Allende entrusted two of the most important tasks of his government to Chilean Jews: Jacques Chonchol to direct and implemented the successful agrarian reform which completely transformed the country’s agricultural structure, and David Silberman Gurovich, who was in charge of consolidating the nationalization of the most important industry in the country, Codelco-Chuquicamata (the largest open-pit copper mine in the World).\n\nIn 1972, Salvador Allende suggested the Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal ask the Chilean Supreme Court to extradite former SS Colonel Walter Rauff to Germany. The letters exchanged between Wiesental and President Allende are published in CLARIN.\n"}
{"id": "40835703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40835703", "title": "Crowley (Supernatural)", "text": "Crowley (Supernatural)\n\nCrowley is a fictional character on the American paranormal drama television series \"Supernatural\" who is portrayed by actor Mark A. Sheppard, and is the King of Hell. Introduced in the fifth season, Sheppard has appeared a recurring role in every season since then, and was eventually promoted to series regular in the tenth season. His portrayal of Crowley has been met with positive reception from both critics and fans of the series. His name is inspired by Aleister Crowley.\n\nCrowley is introduced mid-way through Season 5 in the episode \"Abandon All Hope...\", having first been mentioned near the end of the previous episode, \"The Real Ghostbusters\", when series protagonists Sam and Dean Winchester learn that Crowley—not Lilith, as was previously believed—had been the one who took The Colt from Bela Talbot in the Season 3. The following episode, they track down and confront him. Although his guards capture the brothers, Crowley uses The Colt to kill his own men before explaining that he shares the Winchesters' goal of them killing Lucifer, as he suspects that Lucifer would kill all demons once he has killed all humans. Crowley gives The Colt to the brothers to use to kill Lucifer and then informs them of Lucifer's location so that they can find him. When The Colt fails to kill Lucifer, Crowley is forced to go on the run to evade retribution from the forces of Hell for his betrayal. Learning of the Winchesters' new plan to stop Lucifer by trapping him in his cage in Hell once again using the Horsemen's rings, Crowley again aids the brothers in \"The Devil You Know\" to help them find Pestilence and retrieve his ring by orchestrating the capture of a high-ranking demonic minion of Pestilence's and ultimately manipulating the demon into revealing Pestilence's location. He then manipulates the Winchesters' long-time ally Bobby Singer to \"lend\" him his soul in order for them to find Death, with Crowley assuring Bobby that he will rescind his claim on Bobby's soul once Lucifer is imprisoned. It is soon revealed that he actually wants Bobby's soul to prevent the brothers from killing him after they stop Lucifer. Despite ever-increasing animosity between himself and the rest of the group, Crowley helps Dean recover the final ring from Death.\n\nThe Season 6 episode \"Weekend at Bobby's\" reveals that Crowley went back on his promise to Bobby and plans to keep Bobby's soul, telling him that he will give him the ten years left of life customary for Faustian deals before he has him killed and brought to Hell. Eventually, however, Crowley is forced to return Bobby's soul to save his own life. The same episode establishes Crowley's backstory: he had been a 17th-century Scotsman named Fergus MacLeod whose own son, Gavin, hated him as much as he himself hated Gavin. It is also revealed that Crowley has become the King of Hell since Lucifer's imprisonment in the Season 5 finale. Several episodes later, Crowley reveals himself to be manipulating hunters into working for him by capturing monsters. He explains that he wants to interrogate the monsters on how to reach Purgatory—the afterlife of monsters—to be able to harvest the souls there and build his own power. He then coerces Sam and Dean into working for him, too, by claiming that he can restore Sam's missing soul; however, once he is forced to admit that he had lied in saying that he could, the angel Castiel seemingly kills him. It is eventually revealed that Crowley is, in fact, still alive and still trying to find Purgatory in secret; furthermore, he and Castiel have been working together all along to find Purgatory. They learn how to access Purgatory in the season finale, but Castiel reveals that he has no intentions of letting Crowley have any of the Purgatory souls, thus Crowley forms an alliance with Castiel's enemy Raphael. Castiel sabotages their spell to open Purgatory before taking all of the souls therein for himself, and Crowley makes his escape, leaving Raphael to be killed by Castiel.\n\nThough reluctant to risk crossing the new god-like Castiel, Crowley once again secretly aid the Winchesters in Season 7 premiere \"Meet the New Boss\", this time in trying to defeat Castiel. When the Leviathans are released into the world from Castiel's body, Crowley attempts to strike an alliance with their leader, Dick Roman, but Dick scoffs at the idea of an alliance between their kind, instead insulting and threatening Crowley. In response, Crowley orders his demons to refrain from attacking Sam and Dean, to allow the Winchesters to wipe out the Leviathans. When it turns out that Crowley's blood is needed to construct a weapon to kill the Leviathans, he agrees on the condition that they retrieve the other components of the weapon first. Later, Crowley encounters Dick, who makes a deal with Crowley for the demon to give the Winchesters the wrong blood and thus sabotage the weapon. Despite the deal, Crowley gives Sam and Dean his real blood, resulting in Dick's death and the Leviathans' plan unraveling.\n\nIn Season 8, Crowley breaks off his alliance with the Winchesters and acts as an antagonist towards them, as they seek to seal all demons in Hell forever by completing three trials described in a Word of God tablet about demons. Crowley himself wants to use the tablet to unleash all demons onto Earth, and so hunts the tablet and the only one who can read it—the prophet Kevin Tran—relentlessly, but can only secure one broken-off half of the tablet. He later becomes interested in a tablet on angels as well. In \"Taxi Driver\", he attempts to sabotage the second trial Sam and Dean are trying to finish, by dragging the deceased Bobby's soul back to Hell where he had it trapped earlier through use of a reaper working for him. He flees when the angel Naomi is about to attack him, and the trial is ultimately completed. However, the episode ends with Crowley successfully capturing Kevin once again, trying to kill him after Kevin proves that he cannot be tricked or threatened into translating the half of the demon tablet. Crowley is thwarted by the intervention of the angel Metatron. Although Kevin takes Crowley's half of the demon tablet with him when he is rescued by Metatron, Crowley now has the angel tablet, having earlier found and taken it in a confrontation between Castiel and Naomi. In the next episode, he begins killing people whom Sam and Dean have saved, threatening to kill them all and undo the Winchesters' life work unless Sam and Dean surrender the whole demon tablet and give up the trials. Crowley is lured into a trap by Sam and Dean in the season finale, at which point they take him prisoner and make him the subject of the final trial: restoring a demon's humanity by injecting him with purified human blood. Although Crowley manages to make a distress call to other demons, the only one who shows up is Abaddon, who attacks Crowley, planning to take over Hell after killing him. Sam saves him from Abaddon and Crowley soon starts showing human emotion from the effects of Sam's blood, but the process is stopped before it is fully completed, as Sam and Dean learn that completing the last trial would require Sam's death.\n\nCrowley remains the Winchesters' prisoner in the first half of the ninth season, with them using him for information. He is set free in the episode \"Road Trip\" when Dean lets him go to help him in saving Sam, and immediately starts trying to defeat Abaddon for rulership of Hell. He stages an elaborate set-up in \"First Born\" for the purpose of manipulating Dean into taking on the Mark of Cain, which enables Dean to wield the First Blade, the only weapon that can kill Abaddon. Crowley then sets out to find the lost First Blade for Dean to use on Abaddon. At the same time, Crowley is haunted by the memory of almost being cured and eventually turns to injecting himself with human blood to re-experience his lost humanity, later developing an addiction to it. The Winchesters are forced to help him at his most human in his addiction, but while the three of them manage to retrieve the First Blade by working together, Crowley bitterly concedes that Sam and Dean will try to kill him now that he has gotten them the Blade, and takes off with it to prevent that, planning to give it to Dean only once they have found Abaddon. Ultimately, though Crowley and his time-displaced son Gavin fall into Abaddon's clutches in \"King of the Damned\", he is able to aid Dean in killing her by giving him the location of the First Blade and discreetly tipping him off to her trap for him and Sam. Crowley's increased humanity prompts him to keep Gavin alive in the present to spare him the death he had experienced in his own time, and to reconcile much of their mutually hateful relationship. In the season finale \"Do You Believe in Miracles?\", Crowley reveals that he has stopped drinking human blood. At the end of the episode, he oversees Dean's transformation into a demon from the Mark and invites the newborn demon to join him.\n\nIn \"Black\" and \"Reichenbach\", Crowley and Dean are living it up away from everything. However, Crowley gets impatient with Dean's refusal to give up his new life and come to Hell with him to rule at his side. To feed the Mark, Crowley sends Abaddon supporters to Dean to kill and has him fulfill a crossroads deal for him by killing a man's wife and is annoyed when Dean kills the man instead. As Dean starts to get too out of his control, Crowley turns on him, calling Sam and letting him know where Dean is in exchange for the First Blade. In \"Soul Survivor\", Crowley returns to rule of Hell, executing Abaddon supporters, but finds his time with Dean to be causing him problems. To solve this, Crowley saves Castiel and Hannah from the rogue angel Adina and gives Castiel her grace so he can stop Dean by whatever means necessary, whether they be helping cure him or kill him. In \"Girls, Girls, Girls\", Crowley learns of the demonic brothel run by two of his demons and while disgusted as he finds it \"tacky\" rather than evil, orders one to track down the witch who destroyed the brothel. Crowley's demons capture the witch despite the Winchesters interference and Crowley is shocked to learn that the witch is his mother, Rowena. In \"The Things We Left Behind\", Crowley rebuffs Rowena's efforts to bond with him until she reveals that his demon minion Gerald has been trafficking demons to Earth. Crowley kills Gerald to save her, not knowing that Rowena was lying and lets her out of her cell. More of Crowley's backstory is revealed: Crowley's mother conceived him at an orgy and thus he grew up with no father. Rowena was a terrible mother who ended up abandoning him at age eight and never returning despite promising to, something Crowley holds a great deal of resentment towards her for. In \"The Hunter Games\", Crowley continues to let Rowena roam free, but mistrusts her. Rowena plots against Crowley, making him have nightmares of being attacked by his demons and spying on a meeting with the Winchesters where they ask him for the First Blade back to help get rid of the Mark of Cain. Crowley reluctantly goes to retrieve the Blade from where he stashed it in a crypt in Guam with his bones, but discovers it missing. Returning to Hell, he finds that Rowena has killed his loyal demon Guthrie who stole the Blade for her. Crowley believes Rowena's lies about Guthrie and informs the Winchesters he will keep the Blade until they are ready to use it to remove the Mark. In Season 10 Episode 17, inside man, Crowley kicks Rowena out because he learns that she has been plotting against him and has been lying to him.\n\nAfter Sam's attempts to cure Dean of the Mark of Cain turn Crowley back to his old villainy, he attempts to 'raise' Amara- a soul-draining young woman who was 'born' when the Mark was removed from Dean- for his own ends, but she soon proves too powerful to control. Lost for better solutions to the threat of Amara, Crowley provides Dean and Sam with a way to communicate with Lucifer in the Cage, but Lucifer subsequently escaped when Castiel, out of desperation against the threat posed by Amara, agrees to act as Lucifer's new vessel himself. Having retaken control of Hell, Lucifer has Crowley act as his 'servant', such as forcing him to clean a floor with a toothbrush, until one of Crowley's remaining followers helps him escape. Attempts to battle Lucifer and the Darkness eventually fail, but they are able to stop the threat by convincing Amara to reconcile with God, her 'brother'.\n\nDespite Lucifer being freed from Castiel, he resorts to a random assault on the world, lacking any real plan beyond anger against the world that has 'mistreated' him. Working with Castiel and Rowena, Crowley is able to force Lucifer to keep 'jumping' between vessels, eventually exorcising him from the body of the President of the United States and trapping him back in Nick. He is also forced to send his son Gavin back in time to meet his original death in order to prevent the ghost of Gavin's fiancé Fiona killing more people in the present. Crowley initially plans to use Lucifer as his 'attack dog', having warded Lucifer's body so that he is trapped by his very vessel, but Lucifer feigns compliance so that he can win support from other demons to break the warding and free himself. Lucifer eventually escapes and apparently kills Crowley, something the Winchesters learn about from the British Men of Letters.\n\nIn \"All Along the Watchtower\", Crowley is revealed to have survived by possessing a rat before Lucifer \"killed\" him. Returning to his usual vessel, Crowley offers his help to defeat Lucifer at which point he promises to personally seal the Gates of Hell, tired of his job as the King of Hell and all of the backstabbing that comes with it. After discovering that the Nephilim's power has opened a rift to an alternate reality where the world has ended, Crowley works with the Winchesters to trap Lucifer in the alternate reality. As the spell requires the sacrifice of a life, Crowley says his goodbyes to the Winchesters before killing himself with an angel blade. Crowley's death completes the spell, but Lucifer is able to kill Castiel before he is trapped in the alternate reality with Mary Winchester.\n\nOriginally, Crowley is described as \"Lilith's right-hand man and King of the Crossroads\", with the latter title referencing his role as the leader and \"the most powerful\" of the crossroad demons, a special subgroup of demons in \"Supernatural\" who fulfill the traditional concept of a \"deal with the Devil\" for one's soul. By the sixth season, Crowley has usurped leadership of Hell, becoming \"the undisputed King of Hell\". However, executive producer and current series showrunner, Jeremy Carver, explained that Crowley \"actually doesn't care for [Hell] much\", in contrast to Abaddon, his challenger for the crown in Season 9. Nicholas Knight, author of various \"Supernatural\" supplementary materials, summarized Crowley as \"nasty, cocky, brutally honest, and wickedly funny\", and wrote that, \"If [Crowley] weren't such a bad guy, he'd make one amazing hero—although technically he \"is\" a hero to the forces of evil.\"\n\nStarting in the eighth season finale \"Sacrifice\", Crowley began exposing a \"new emotional vulnerability\" as a result of an unfinished demon-curing ritual performed on him in the episode and a resulting addiction to human blood in Season 9. On this topic, executive producer Robert Singer said that Crowley's secret enjoyment of his temporary sense of humanity influenced the character throughout the ninth season. However, a statement from Carver raised the possibility that Crowley might not retain this humanity in Season 10.\n\nSeason 12 revealed he occupied his throne as \"King Of Hell\" because the prince of hell next in line for the throne, Ramiel, has no interest in the title. He gives Crowley the throne under one condition: that he be left alone, forever. Ramiel lived a solitary life fishing until one day, the Winchesters and Castiel go kicking up that nest. As Cass was dying from being impaled with the Lance of Michael, Sam Winchester defeated Ramiel with the Lance of Michael. Crowley saved Castiel by breaking the Lance, therefore breaking the spell the Lance of Michael carried.\n\nMaureen Ryan of \"The Chicago Tribune\" disclosed in her October 9, 2009 review of fifth season episode \"Fallen Idols\" that \"the ubiquitous and talented Mark Sheppard\" had been cast as the \"pivotal\" demon character Crowley in the upcoming episode \"Abandon All Hope...\". Sheppard had previously worked with \"Supernatural\" producer and director Kim Manners on \"The X-Files\". Sheppard revealed in an interview with \"Variety\" on November 11, 2014 that he and Manners had discussed the possibility of Sheppard appearing on \"Supernatural\", but that Manners had died before Sheppard ultimately landed his role as Crowley. In the same interview, Sheppard also revealed that when reading the script for \"Abandon All Hope\", he \"got the giggles\" and took the part partially to honor Manners and partially out of appreciation for the work of writer Ben Edlund, as Edlund had written for \"Firefly\", another show on which Sheppard appeared.\n\nIn an exclusive interview with Michael Ausiello on July 15, 2010, series creator Eric Kripke confirmed that Crowley would return in the show's sixth season.\n\nKnight felt that \"Crowley's journey on the show has been a bold and ambitious one\". On the Season 9 subplot of Crowley's human blood addiction, he wrote that it was \"one of the most interesting and unexpected subplots of [the] season...and it left a lasting (and often amusing) impression on viewers.\" Carver, too, enjoys the character, stating, \"He's pure evil, but, in an odd sort of way, we find him likeable. He's so much fun to write.\"\n\nWhen discussing plots that had been either set up or not resolved by the end of Season 9, Knight cited the developments in Crowley's story, questioning what the character plans to do with the demonic version of Dean he beckoned to in the closing moments of \"Do You Believe in Miracles?\" He also questioned Crowley's plans for demons at large under his control, and how Hell may or may not change.\n\nCritical response to Sheppard's characterization of Crowley has been largely positive. In a review of the episode \"Blade Runners\" \"New York\"'s Vulture website, Price Peterson wrote, \"This whole enemy-of-my-enemy relationship between the Winchesters and Crowley is one of the most compelling dynamics this series has seen, and as long as \"Supernatural\" keeps Crowley constantly on the verge of redemption, I see no end to its emotional rewards.\" Of the same episode, \"The A.V. Club\" member Phil Dyess-Nugent wrote, \"Just how terrific is Mark A. Sheppard? There was a time, not so very long ago, when I would have tagged this as a trick question, but Sheppard has been playing Crowley long enough to have gotten comfortable in the part and grateful for the chance to do new things with it, and he carries 'Blade Runners' in the palm of his hand.\" On io9, Charlie Jane Anders praised Sheppard's \"impeccable comic timing, and his ability to sell an entire scene with afew \"[sic]\" well-chosen facial expressions.\"\n\nFan reaction to Crowley has been described as being positive as well. The character was described as a \"fan-favorite\" and \"one of the most iconic and popular characters on the show\" since his first appearance. \"He's a villain fans love to hate,\" Knight wrote, \"and no matter how difficult he makes Dean and Sam's lives, viewers are always thrilled by Crowley's devilish ways\", adding to Carver's warning that Crowley had not become truly human over the course of his Season 9 story arc, that, \"A truly human Crowley is something fans would never really want anyway; it's much more fun rooting for a truly \"bad\" guy, especially when he's so darn entertaining.\"\n"}
{"id": "299437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299437", "title": "Daniel Johnston", "text": "Daniel Johnston\n\nDaniel Dale Johnston (born January 22, 1961) is an American singer-songwriter, musician, and visual artist who is regarded as a significant figure in outsider, lo-fi, and alternative music scenes. Most of his work consists of cassettes he recorded alone in his home, and his music is frequently cited for its \"pure and childlike soul\".\n\nJohnston has spent extended periods of his life in psychiatric institutions and has been diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. He gathered a local following in the 1980s by passing out tapes of his music while working at a McDonald's in Austin, Texas. His cult status was propelled when Nirvana's Kurt Cobain was seen wearing a T-shirt that featured artwork from Johnston's 1983 album \"Hi, How Are You\". In 2005, Johnston was the subject of the documentary \"The Devil and Daniel Johnston\".\n\nJohnston was born in Sacramento, California, and grew up in New Cumberland, West Virginia. He is the youngest of five children of William Dale \"Bill\" Johnston (1922-2017) and Mabel Ruth Voyles Johnston (1923–2010). He began recording music in the late 1970s on a $59 Sanyo monaural boombox, singing and playing piano as well as the chord organ. Following graduation from Oak Glen High School, Johnston spent a few weeks at Abilene Christian University in West Texas before dropping out. He later attended the art program at the East Liverpool campus of Kent State University, during which he recorded \"Songs of Pain\" and \"More Songs of Pain\".\n\nWhen Johnston moved to Austin, Texas, he began to attract the attention of the local press and gained a following augmented in numbers by his habit of handing out tapes to people he met. Live performances were well-attended and hotly anticipated. His local standing led to him being featured in a 1985 episode of the MTV program \"The Cutting Edge\" featuring performers from Austin's \"New Sincerity\" music scene. Subsequently, he performed at the 1985 Woodshock music festival in Austin and was featured in the short documentary \"Woodshock\".\n\nIn 1988, Johnston visited New York City and recorded \"1990\" with producer Kramer at his Noise New York studio. It was released in 1990 on Kramer's Shimmy-Disc label. This was Johnston's first experience in a professional recording environment after a decade of releasing home-made cassette recordings. His mental health further deteriorated during the making of \"1990\". In 1989, Johnston released the album \"It's Spooky\" in collaboration with Half Japanese singer Jad Fair.\n\nIn 1990, Johnston played at a music festival in Austin, Texas. On the way back to West Virginia on a private two-seater plane piloted by his father Bill, Johnston had a manic psychotic episode; believing he was Casper the Friendly Ghost, Johnston removed the key from the plane's ignition and threw it outside. His father, a former US Air Force pilot, managed to successfully crash-land the plane, even though \"there was nothing down there but trees\". Although the plane was destroyed, Johnston and his father emerged with only minor injuries. As a result of this episode, Johnston was involuntarily committed to a mental hospital.\n\nInterest in Johnston increased when Kurt Cobain was frequently photographed wearing a T-shirt featuring the cover image of Johnston's album \"Hi, How Are You\" that music journalist Everett True gave him. Kurt Cobain listed \"Yip/Jump Music\" as one of his favorite albums in his journal in 1993.\nIn spite of Johnston being resident in a mental hospital at the time, there was a bidding war to sign him. He refused to sign a multi-album deal with Elektra Records because Metallica was on the label's roster and he was convinced that they were of Satan and would hurt him. He also dropped his manager after having a psychotic episode at a Butthole Surfers concert. Ultimately he signed with Atlantic Records in February 1994 and that September released \"Fun\", produced by Paul Leary of Butthole Surfers. It was a commercial failure. In June 1996, Atlantic dropped Daniel from the label.\n\nIn 1993, the Sound Exchange record store in Austin, Texas commissioned Johnston to paint a mural of the \"Hi, How Are You?\" frog (also known as \"Jeremiah the Innocent\") from the album's cover. After the record store closed in 2003, the building remained unoccupied until 2004 when a Mexican grill franchise called Baja Fresh took ownership and decided to remove the wall that held the mural. A group of people who lived in the neighborhood convinced the managers and contractors to keep the mural intact. As of 2018, the building houses a Thai restaurant called \"Thai, How Are You\".\n\nJohnston contributed two songs to the soundtrack for Larry Clark's controversial 1995 film \"Kids\", produced by Folk Implosion and Sebadoh's frontman, Lou Barlow. Johnston later covered \"Schoolhouse Rock!\"'s \"Unpack Your Adjectives\" for a compilation of the popular education songs called \"Schoolhouse Rock! Rocks\" in 1996.\n\nIn 2004, he released \"\", a two-disc compilation. The first disc featured covers of his songs by artists including Tom Waits, Beck, TV on the Radio, Jad Fair, Eels, Bright Eyes, Calvin Johnson, Death Cab for Cutie, Sparklehorse, Mercury Rev, The Flaming Lips and Starlight Mints. The second disc featured Johnston's original recordings of the songs. In 2005, Texas-based theater company Infernal Bridegroom Productions received a Multi-Arts Production/MAP Fund grant to work with Johnston to create a rock opera based on his music, titled \"Speeding Motorcycle\".\n\nA 2005 Dutch documentary about Johnston for the TV series \"R.A.M.\" was followed in 2006 by \"The Devil and Daniel Johnston\". Jeff Feuerzeig's documentary, four years in the making, collated some of the vast amount of recorded material Johnston (and in some case, others) had produced over the years to portray his life and music. The film won high praise, receiving the Director's Award at the 2005 Sundance Film Festival. The film also inspired more interest in Johnston's work, and increased his prestige as a touring artist. In 2006, Johnston's label, Eternal Yip Eye Music, released his first greatest-hits compilation, \"Welcome to My World\". He appeared as musical guest on \"The Henry Rollins Show\", performing \"Mask\" and \"Care Less\" (the latter was exclusive to the Internet).\n\nThrough the next few years Johnston toured extensively across the world, and continued to attract press attention. His artwork was shown in galleries such as in London's Aquarium Gallery, New York's Clementine Gallery and at the Liverpool Biennial in 2006 and 2008, and in 2009, his work was exhibited at \"The Museum of Love\" at Verge Gallery in Sacramento, California. In 2008, Dick Johnston, Daniel's brother and manager, revealed that \"a movie deal based on the artist's life and music had been finalized with a tentative 2011 release.\" He also said that a deal had been struck with the Converse company for a \"signature series\" Daniel Johnston shoe. Later, it was revealed by Dick Johnston that Converse had dropped the plan. In early 2008, a Jeremiah the Innocent collectible figurine was released in limited runs of four different colors. Later in the year, Adjustable Productions released Johnston's first concert DVD, \"The Angel and Daniel Johnston – Live at the Union Chapel\", featuring a 2007 appearance in Islington, London.\n\n\"Is and Always Was\" was released on October 6, 2009, on Eternal Yip Eye Music. In 2009, it was announced that Matt Groening had chosen Johnston to perform at the edition of the All Tomorrow's Parties festival that he curated in May 2010, in Minehead, England. Later that year, he was invited by rock band Cage the Elephant to appear at Starry Nights Fest, a music festival in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Johnston performed a brief solo set before being joined on stage by Cage, who backed performances of several songs, including \"Speeding Motorcycle\" and \"True Love Will Find You in the End\". Also that year, Dr. Fun Fun and Smashing Studios developed an iPhone platform game called \"Hi, How Are You\". The game is similar to \"Frogger\", but features Johnston's art and music. It is said Daniel Johnston played it during its development and liked it, although he was not familiar with the iPhone.\n\nOn March 13, 2012, Johnston released his first comic book, \"Space Ducks – An Infinite Comic Book of Musical Greatness\"  at SXSW, published by BOOM! Studios. The comic book ties-in with the \"Space Ducks\" album and an iOS app.\n\nJohnston has collaborated with skateboarding and clothing company Supreme on numerous collections (consisting of clothing and various accessories) showcasing his artwork.\n\nOn March 1, 2012, Brooklyn-based photographer Jung Kim announced her photo book and traveling exhibition project with Johnston titled \"DANIEL JOHNSTON: here\", a collaboration that began in 2008 when Kim first met Johnston and began photographing him on the road and at his home in Waller, Texas. On March 13, 2013, this photography book was published, featuring five years of documentation on Johnston. The traveling exhibition started at SXSW 2013 in Austin, Texas, hosted by Johnston's long-time friend and early supporter Louis Black, co-founder of \"The Austin Chronicle\" and SXSW Festival. The opening featured a special performance by Johnston along with tribute performances led by Jason Sebastian Russo formerly of Mercury Rev. The second exhibition ran in May and June 2013 in London, England, and featured a special performance by Johnston along with tribute performances by the UK band Charlie Boyer and the Voyeurs with Steffan Halperin of the Klaxons. On October 10, 2013, Jason Pierce of Spiritualized hosted the New York City opening of the exhibition which included special tribute performances led by Pierce and Glen Hansard of The Swell Season and The Frames.\n\nIn November 2015, \"Hi, How Are You Daniel Johnston\", a short biopic about Johnston's life, was released featuring Johnston as his 2015 self and Gabriel Sunday of \"Archie's Final Project\" as Johnston's 1983 self. The executive producers for the film included Lana Del Rey.\n\nIn July 2017, Johnston announced that he would be retiring from live performance and would embark on a final five-date tour that fall. Each stop on the tour featured Johnston backed by a group that had been influenced by his music: The Preservation All-Stars in New Orleans, The Districts and Modern Baseball in Philadelphia, Jeff Tweedy in Chicago, and Built to Spill for the final two dates in Portland and Vancouver.\n\nIn 2018, Johnston's 1982 song \"The Story of an Artist\" was featured in a television advertisement by Apple Inc.\n\nStudio albums\n\nOfficial\n\nOther\n"}
{"id": "52930764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52930764", "title": "Daniel V. Jones", "text": "Daniel V. Jones\n\nDaniel Victor Jones (April 15, 1958 April 30, 1998) was an American man who committed suicide on a Los Angeles freeway in 1998. The incident was broadcast on live television by news helicopters. Jones committed suicide as a form of protest towards Health maintenance organizations, after being diagnosed as HIV-positive several months earlier. Footage of his suicide was shown in the 2002 documentary film, \"Bowling for Columbine\".\n\nJones was born on April 15, 1958 and was from Long Beach, California. He worked as a maintenance worker at the Renaissance Hotel in Long Beach, a job he'd been employed at since 1995. He lived in a small two-bedroom bungalow off an alleyway in Long Beach. He lived alone with his pet dog Gladdis, a 7-year-old Labrador-whippet mixed-breed.\n\nBy April 1998, Jones was suffering from both HIV and cancer. His neighbors and fellow workers were unaware that he had any health problems. Jones confided to a friend in early April that he had found a flesh-colored growth on his neck. The doctors at first were unsure of its cause, but later confirmed that it was cancer. Jones believed he was being misled by his health insurer, and also told his best friend that he was HIV-positive.\n\nBy the end of April 1998, Jones believed he was going to die, so he decided to take his own life in a way that would draw publicity to his situation. He believed it was no one's fault other than his own for getting himself into the situation he was in. Jones would later be quoted as saying, \"I'm not happy with what's happening to my situation and I'm going to draw attention to it whichever way I can. My paramount goal is for no one other than myself to get hurt.\"\n\nOn Thursday, April 30, 1998, around 3:00 p.m., 40-year-old Daniel Jones parked his dark gray Toyota pickup truck on the transition loop from the Harbor Freeway to the Century Freeway in Los Angeles (). Jones sat in the front of his truck with Gladdis. He began pointing a loaded shotgun at passing cars on the freeway, causing motorists to report him to the police. Jones himself then called 911, revealing he was emotionally distraught about Health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and the circumstances surrounding his HIV. Jones said he was in pain due to mistreatment by the HMO in whose care he had been placed. He complained it would take him a month to schedule an appointment with a doctor and another month to get the results of a test. As was confirmed later, aside from being HIV-positive, Jones also suffered from cancer. During the call, he fired off several rounds from his shotgun, with one of them going through the roof of his truck. Authorities then closed the two freeways, preventing anyone from approaching him. Jones remained in his truck the entire time, as police and news helicopters monitored his movements. The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Special Weapons Team began to assemble and got into position around him. Jones then reached into a backpack he owned and took out clothing and a videotape. He then began throwing the items over the freeway wall. Afterwards, he got out of the truck and walked across the empty freeway.\n\nJones then unfurled a large, square banner with white hand-lettering that read: \"HMO's are in it for the money!! Live free, love safe or die.\" Jones had made the banner specifically for the occasion and displayed it for the news helicopters to see. As it was pretty windy on the interstate at the time, Jones weighted the banner down with a container to stop it blowing away. Jones continued to make obscene gestures and returned to his truck several times to pet Gladdis. As authorities prepared to negotiate with him, Jones suddenly returned to his truck and sat in the front seat. Intending to take his own life, Jones ignited a Molotov cocktail inside his truck. The vehicle suddenly burst into flames and was set ablaze. Jones got out of the vehicle however and ran across the freeway as he was engulfed in flames and smoke, with his hair, pants and socks all on fire. Jones tried to pat out the flames and managed to peel off his pants. He then continued to wander about looking dazed and disoriented. He walked to the edge of the freeway gesturing angrily. It appeared as if he was about to jump off the freeway; however, he changed his mind and backed away from the edge, before returning to his ablaze truck. Moments later, at around 3:50 p.m., he retrieved his shotgun from the back of the truck and then walked back across the freeway. He placed the shotgun beneath his chin, pulled the trigger and committed suicide. He then fell to the ground with the cameras still rolling and playing the event live to viewers watching at home. As it was a Thursday afternoon, it was witnessed by many children, whose after-school cartoons had been interrupted in order to broadcast the incident. Jones died at the age of forty, roughly two weeks after his birthday.\n\nThe stand-off between Jones and the police had lasted close to fifty minutes. Police were concerned that there was a bomb or multiple booby traps still inside the truck. Because of this, they hesitated to move in. The truck meanwhile continued to burn with Gladdis still trapped inside it. Jones' body remained splayed out in the middle of the freeway with his own blood all around him. Eventually police approached the truck and searched the inside of it. They found the remnants of several Molotov cocktails, a number of shotgun shells and the charred remains of Gladdis, who had perished in the fire.\n\nDuring the stand-off, Jones had thrown a videotape over the freeway wall. When recovered by the authorities, who viewed the video, it was discovered that it was a videotaped suicide note recorded by Jones on the previous day. In the video, Jones sat on his couch next to Gladdis and said \"I'm not going to fight the disease. It has affected my neurological system. I'm not going to end up crazy.\" A police source who viewed the video said that Jones complained he was in pain. The videotape explained Jones' motivations and laid blame for his suicide. Jones reportedly says in the video, \"I'm a dead man,\" and signs off by declaring, \"See ya!\".\n\nBecause Jones' suicide was witnessed by children, this led many to criticize Los Angeles television stations' practice of airing police pursuits live. The incident prompted a wave of criticism about live news broadcasts, proposing changes in the way they were handled in the future. A total of seven television stations broadcast Jones' suicide live. Both KTLA channel 5 and KTTV channel 11 had interrupted children's programming to cover the suicide, while KNBC channel 4 had interrupted \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\". Both KNBC and KTLA had their cameras tightest on the coverage, meaning viewers were able to see the graphic suicide in close detail. KNBC issued an apology saying, \"We did not anticipate this man's actions in time to cut away, and we deeply regret that any of our viewers saw this tragedy on our air.\" The station, as well as the Fox Broadcasting affiliate, offered viewers numbers they could call for counseling. KTLA also released a statement saying, \"KTLA shares with its viewers their distress.\"\n\nKCBS-TV channel 2 moved to a wide shot before Jones committed suicide because they were reportedly concerned over his erratic behavior. The channel brought a psychologist into the studio later that day to hold a live discussion regarding distressing live media coverage. They later released a statement saying \"This is the danger of live television, you've got to be on your toes, and you have to be ready to pull back immediately.\" KCAL-TV channel 9 reportedly received an estimated 120 calls during the broadcast prior to Jones even taking his life, requesting the station to cut away from the story before things got out of hand.\n\nThe footage of Jones' suicide has been shown in many documentaries outlining the incident. It appeared in Michael Moore's 2002 documentary film, \"Bowling for Columbine\". It also appeared as the opening clip in the \"Banned! In America\" shockumentary film series. Since then it has been uploaded onto shock sites such as LiveLeak.\n\n"}
{"id": "724562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=724562", "title": "David Wilkerson", "text": "David Wilkerson\n\nDavid Ray Wilkerson (May 19, 1931 – April 27, 2011) was an American Christian evangelist, best known for his book \"The Cross and the Switchblade\". He was the founder of the addiction recovery program Teen Challenge, and founding pastor of the non-denominational Times Square Church in New York City.\n\nWilkerson's widely distributed sermons, such as \"A Call to Anguish\", are known for being direct and frank against apostasy and serious about making the commitment to obey Jesus' teachings. He emphasized such Christian beliefs as God's holiness and righteousness, God's love toward humans and especially Christian views of Jesus. Wilkerson tried to avoid categorizing Christians into distinct groups according to the denomination to which they belong.\n\nWilkerson was killed in a head-on car crash in Texas on April 27, 2011. He was 79.\n\nDavid Wilkerson was born in 1931 in Indiana. He was the second son of a family of Pentecostal Christian preachers, and he was raised in Barnesboro, Pennsylvania, in a house \"full of Bibles\". His paternal grandfather and his father, Kenneth, were ministers. According to Wilkerson's own testimony, he was baptized with the Holy Spirit at the age of eight.\n\nThe young Wilkerson began to preach when he was about fourteen. After high school, he entered the Central Bible College in Springfield, Missouri. The school was affiliated with the Assemblies of God. In 1952 he was ordained as a minister.\n\nWilkerson married Gwen in 1953. He served as a pastor in small churches in Scottdale and Philipsburg in Pennsylvania, until he saw a photograph in \"Life Magazine\" in early 1958 of seven teenagers who were members of a gang in New York known as \"Egyptian Kings\". He later wrote that he felt the Holy Spirit move him with compassion and was drawn to go to New York in order to preach to them. On his arrival, Wilkerson went to the court in which the teenagers were being prosecuted. He entered the room and asked the judge for permission to tell them something, but the judge ejected him. Upon leaving, someone took a photo of Wilkerson, who then became known as the Bible preacher \"who had interrupted the gang trial\". Soon after this, he began a street ministry to young drug addicts and gang members, which he continued into the 1960s. He founded Teen Challenge in 1958, an evangelical Christian addiction recovery program in Brooklyn affiliated with the Assemblies of God, with a network of Christian social and evangelizing work centers.\n\nWilkerson gained national recognition after he co-authored the book \"The Cross and the Switchblade\" in 1962 with John and Elizabeth Sherrill about his street ministry. The book became a best-seller, with over 50 million copies in over thirty languages, and is included in \"Christianity Today\"'s \"Top 50 Books That Have Shaped Evangelicals\". In the book, Wilkerson tells of the conversion of gang member Nicky Cruz, who later became an evangelist himself and wrote the autobiographical \"Run Baby Run\". Nicky had been the leader of the \"Mau Maus\" gang, and he and his friend Israel Narvaez became Christians after hearing Wilkerson preach. In 1970, \"The Cross and the Switchblade\" was turned into a Hollywood movie starring Pat Boone as Wilkerson and Erik Estrada as Cruz.\n\nIn 1967, Wilkerson began Youth Crusades, an evangelistic ministry aimed at teenagers whom Wilkerson called \"goodniks\"—middle-class youth who were restless and bored. His goal was to prevent them from becoming heavily involved with drugs, alcohol, or violence. Through this ministry, the CURE Corps (Collegiate Urban Renewal Effort) was founded. In 1971, Wilkerson moved his ministry headquarters to Lindale, Texas. On September 22 he founded World Challenge, an organization seeking to promote and spread the Gospel throughout the world.\n\nWilkerson claimed that in 1986, while walking down 42nd Street in New York City at midnight, the Holy Spirit called him to return to New York City and to raise up a ministry in Times Square. He founded and became the pastor of Times Square Church, which opened its doors in October 1987. The church first occupied rented auditoriums in Times Square (Town Hall and the Nederlander Theater), before moving to the historic Mark Hellinger Theatre in 1989, in which it has operated ever since.\n\nWilkerson did not preach in the name of any specific denomination. Instead, he focused on biblical preaching with the aim of encouraging people to seek God through a personal and deeper knowledge of Jesus Christ and the experience of the Holy Spirit. He said:\n\nThroughout his ministry, Wilkerson had contact with many other prominent Christian ministers, including Leonard Ravenhill, who was his friend, and Ray Comfort, whom Wilkerson met in 1992 after listening to a message called \"Hell's Best Kept Secret\".\n\nWilkerson and his wife Gwen moved to New York City at the inception of Times Square Church in 1987, and in 2006 began splitting their time between New York and Texas. They had four children and eleven grandchildren.\n\nWilkerson claimed to have received a vision in 1973 regarding the future of the United States, subsequently published in a book called \"The Vision\". Some of the subject areas of this prophecy were: \"Worldwide recession caused by economic confusion\"; \"Nature having labor pains\"; \"A flood of filth and a baptism of dirt in America\"; \"Rebellion in the home\"; and \"A persecution madness against truly Spirit filled Christians who love Jesus Christ\".\n\nOn March 7, 2009 Wilkerson posted a message to his personal blog titled 'An Urgent Message' where he re-stated an earlier prophecy he had made concerning New York city: \"For ten years I have been warning about a thousand fires coming to New York City. It will engulf the whole megaplex, including areas of New Jersey and Connecticut. Major cities all across America will experience riots and blazing fires\". Wilkerson indicated that this would be part of a \"earth-shattering calamity\" affecting the whole earth, brought on by the wrath of God in judgement against \"the raging sins of America and the nations\". Regarding the timing of these events, he said: \"I do not know when these things will come to pass, but I know it is not far off.\" \n\nOn April 27, 2011, while driving east on US Route 175 in Texas, Wilkerson crossed into the westbound lane and collided head-on with a tractor trailer. He was pronounced dead at the scene, just over a month from his 80th birthday. (According to a Texas Department of Public Safety representative, Wilkerson was not wearing a seatbelt at the time of the crash.) His wife Gwendolyn was injured.\n\nGwendolyn Wilkerson died a year later, on July 5, 2012 from cancer, at the age of 81.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13080853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13080853", "title": "Edward Kemeys", "text": "Edward Kemeys\n\nEdward Kemeys (January 31, 1843 – May 11, 1907) was an American sculptor and considered America's first animalier. \nHe is best known for his sculptures of animals, particularly the two bronze lions that mark the entrance to the Art Institute of Chicago Building in Chicago Illinois. Kemeys was also a Captain in the 4th United States Colored Heavy Artillery, Company H, writer, lecturer, and adventurer in the Western United States.\n\nKemeys was born on January 31, 1843 in Savannah, Georgia. to Abby Greene of Providence, RI and William Kemeys of Scarborough, NY. The Kemeys family lived in Savannah, GA, moving back to New York after the death of his mother in 1843. Kemeys first worked in the iron business of New York City at age seventeen.\n\nCivil War\n\nWhen the Civil War broke out, Kemeys enlisted. He was 19. Kemeys volunteered for the 65th Volunteer Regiment of the State of New York. \"I served in the Peninsula campaign till I fell sick of fever and was discharged. I went in again later as a second lieutenant.\" Kemeys re-enlisted as a commissioned officer in the 4th United States Colored Heavy Artillery, Company H attaining the rank of Captain. He resigned his commission in 1866.\n\nAfter the Civil WarHe studied in New York City and then Paris. In Paris, he was impressed by the style of Antoine-Louis Barye, although in no sense an imitator. He made a specialty of the wild animals of the American continent. His “Fight between Buffalo and Wolves” attracted much attention at the Paris salon in 1878. Among his other important works are “Panther and Deer,” and “Coyote and Raven.” A colossal head of a buffalo for the facade of the station of the Pacific railroad at St. Louis, Missouri, which was cast in bronze in New York in August, 1887, was the largest work of its kind that had been done in the United States. Another bronze statue of a panther named \"Still Hunt,\" is permanently situated on a rock flanking the East Drive of New York City's Central Park.\n\nKemeys died in Washington, D.C. on May 11, 1907. He and his wife, Laura Kemeys are buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "5916288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5916288", "title": "Edward Solomon", "text": "Edward Solomon\n\nEdward Solomon (25 July 1855 – 22 January 1895) was an English composer, as well as a conductor, orchestrator and pianist. He died at age 39 by which time he had written dozens of works produced for the stage, including several for the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, including \"The Nautch Girl\" (1891). Early in his career, he was a frequent collaborator of Henry Pottinger Stephens. He had a bigamous marriage with Lillian Russell in the 1880s.\n\nEdward (\"Teddy\") Solomon was born in Lambeth, London, to a Jewish family. He had ten siblings. His parents were Charles Solomon (1817–1890), a music hall pianist, conductor and composer, and his wife, Cesira \"Sarah\" Marinina, née Mirandoli (1834–1891). He picked up music by working with his father.\n\nAged 17 or 18, Solomon married 15-year-old Jane Isaacs in 1873, and the two had a daughter, Claire Romaine (1873–1964), who became an actress, but Solomon soon deserted Isaacs and, over the years, took a series of mistresses. Isaacs later sang under the stage name Lily Grey.\n\nHis first comic opera was \"A Will With a Vengeance\" (1876), a one-act work with a libretto by Frederick Hay, based on \"La Vendetta\". This was produced at the Globe Theatre. In 1879, he met Henry Pottinger \"Pot\" Stephens while he was the musical director at the Royalty Theatre conducting, among other works, Arthur Sullivan's \"The Zoo\". With Stephens, he produced his first successes, \"Billee Taylor\" (1880), a \"nautical comedy opera\" in two acts; and \"Claude Duval\" (1881, celebrating a well known 18th century highwayman), both of which remained popular for many years in both the UK and US. Other Solomon and Stephens pieces were \"Lord Bateman, or Picotee's Pledge\" (1882), \"Virginia and Paul, or Ringing the Changes\" (1883) and later \"The Red Hussar\" (1889), a \"comedy opera\" in three acts. Together, they would also write \"Popsy Wopsy\", a \"musical absurdity\" (1880) and \"Pocahontas\" (1884).\n\nSolomon also wrote the music for the short companion pieces \"Quite an Adventure\" (1881; Olympic Theatre; revived in 1894 at the Savoy Theatre) and \"Round and Square\" (1885), each with a libretto by Frank Desprez, and each produced on tour by D'Oyly Carte companies in the 1880s and 1890s. Other early shows included \"Love and Larceny\" in 1881, a farce, \"Through the Looking-Glass\" (1882), \"The Vicar of Bray\", a comic opera with a libretto by Sydney Grundy (1882; revived 1892 at the Savoy), the successful \"Polly, or The Pet of the Regiment\" (1884) and \"Pepita; or, the Girl with the Glass Eyes\" (1886). He also wrote ballads like \"I Should Like To\" and \"Over the Way\", and numerous salon piano solos and arrangements. For instance, he arranged George Grossmith's \"See Me Dance the Polka\" for piano.\n\nWith F. C. Burnand, Solomon wrote \"Pickwick\" (1889), which also had a run in 1894, \"Domestic Economy\" (1890), and \"The Tiger\" (1890). Burnand's contribution to the last of these was so unacceptable that the work was hissed off the stage on its opening night. \"Pickwick\" was recorded by Retrospect Opera in 2016, together with George Grossmith's \"Cups and Saucers\".\n\nFrom 1891-93, after Gilbert and Sullivan had temporarily separated, Richard D'Oyly Carte mounted a number of non-G&S pieces to keep the Savoy Theatre open, including a revival of \"The Vicar of Bray\" in 1892. Solomon's most famous work produced by the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company was probably \"The Nautch Girl or, The Rajah of Chutneypore\" (1891), an \"Indian comic opera\" in two acts with a libretto by George Dance, and lyrics by Dance and Frank Desprez. It initially ran for 200 performances at the Savoy Theatre and then toured. The company also toured \"The Vicar of Bray\".\n\nHis last stage work was \"On the March\" (1896), a musical comedy in two acts, with John Crook and Frederic Clay, to a libretto by William Yardley, B. C. Stephenson and Cecil Clay, based on \"In Camp\" by Victoria Vokes.\n\nSolomon has been described as \"a diminutive clean-shaven young man ... whimsical, flamboyant, superstitious, hardly to be trusted with money or women, but brimming with melodic invention and able to compose at speed.\" He met the American actress Lillian Russell, in 1882 at Tony Pastor's New York Casino Theatre where he was the season's musical director and she became the star. Unaware of his first marriage she became his mistress. Subsequently, they sailed together to London, where she starred in several of his works, written specifically for her, including \"Virginia\", \"Billee Taylor\", \"Polly\" and \"Pocahontas\". These were not highly successful in Britain, so they returned to America, where Russell was very well received in these works. They had a daughter together, Dorothy, in 1884, and married in New Jersey in 1885. The relationship soured, mostly due to Solomon's poor finances, and their last show, \"The Maid and the Moonshiner\" (1886) was a flop. When creditors sued Solomon, he fled the country.\n\nSolomon was arrested in London in 1886 for bigamy, but the case against him collapsed, as no American witnesses came forward. When she learned of his previous marriage, Russell sued for divorce, finally obtaining it in 1893. Meanwhile, Solomon's first wife divorced him in 1887. In 1889 he married an actress, Kate Everleigh. His brother Frederick Solomon sang in \"Billee Taylor\" in the provinces (1883) and was the composer of the comic opera \"Captain Kidd, or The Bold Buccaneer,\" produced at the Prince of Wales's Theatre, Liverpool, on 10 September 1883.\n\nSolomon died in London of typhoid fever in 1895 at the age of 39.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41554384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41554384", "title": "Emmanuel Noi Omaboe", "text": "Emmanuel Noi Omaboe\n\nEmmanuel Noi Omaboe (29 October 1930 - 26 November 2005), also known as Oyeeman Wereko Ampem II, was a Ghanaian economist, public servant, businessman and traditional ruler.\n\nOyeeman Wereko Ampem II was born on 29 October 1930 at Amanokrom in the Akuapim North District. His parents were Peter Nortey Omaboe of the Osu Adjuate We Royal family and Mary Opeibea Awuku of the Royal Asona Clan of Amanokrom. He had his early childhood between Mamfe and Amanokrom, till he reached the middle school stage and was sent to Suhum. After gaining an education at Accra Academy, completing in 1950, he proceeded to the University College of the Gold Coast in 1951, to read for a degree in Economics. He was awarded a Ghana Government scholarship , after passing Part I of the B.Sc in Economics degree in 1954 to complete Part II of the B.Sc in Economics degree in Statistics at the London School of Economics. He returned to the University College of Ghana as an Economics Research Fellow where he lectured in statistics.\n\nIn 1959, he was appointed the deputy government statistician and promoted soon thereafter to become the Government Statistician in July 1960 due to the Africanization policy of the civil service by Kwame Nkrumah, the first Head of State (1960-1966), the first Ghanaian to hold this position, and at the age of 29, the youngest head of a government department. \n\nHe took up the post of Chairman of the Economic Committee of the National Liberation Council and Commissioner for Economic Affairs after the 1966 coup d'etat. \nOyeeman retired from public service in 1969 and took up a one year fellowship at the Harvard Centre for International Affairs. At his retirement, Oyeeman served as a council member of the International Statistical Institute starting from 1968. Oyeeman had also served as a member of the Advisory Committee on Post Adjustment Questions of the U.N. International Civil Service Commission starting in 1967.\n\nFrom Harvard, upon his retirement from public service, he returned to set up a private economic consultancy firm, E.N. Omaboe and Associates, an area which was new in Ghana in 1970. He also served on the board of directors of Barclays Bank Ghana Ltd. from 1971 to 2005, and was the chairman of the bank from 1991 to 2005.\nHe was installed \"Omanhene\" (Chief) of Amanokrom and \"Gyasehene\" of Akuapem in 1975. During his time as traditional ruler, he undertook the projects of the construction of the Manko Aba Ahenfie and the Amanokrom Community Centre. The annual Odwira experienced large turn up of indigenous people living elsewhere and foreigners from abroad due to his image.\n\nIn 1980, Oyeeman became the first Ghanaian to be elected member on the United Nations Investment Committee which manages the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, which is the pension fund of all U.N. employees, and subsequently was made a member emeritus after his long service. \nOyeeman served on this committee for 24 years, 8 of which he was Chairman, and during this peiod, the fund grew from USD 2.1 billion to USD 26.5 billion, with an increasingly global diverstification of its portfolio\n\nHe received the Grand Medal (Civil Division) of the Republic of Ghana in 1968. Oyeeman was elected an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Statistical Society being the first African to receive that honour. When in 1999, he was named Chancellor of University of Ghana after an extensive search, he was the first non-head of state Chancellor of the University. He received the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, from the University of Ghana, Legon in 1999 .\n\n\nOyeeman was married to Letitia Omaboe with whom he had five children. His son, Nortey Omaboe is the Chief Executive of GCNet. Apart from spending his personal life on family, he engaged in philanthropic acts such as serving as the Chief Patron of the Prisons Fellowship of Ghana (1982-2005). He was a founding member of the Ghana Social Marketing Foundation and actively supported till his death. In 2004, he procured a rare collection of Ashanti Gold weights from a German Vendor, and donated the entire collection of 1000 artifacts to the Institute of African Studies, Legon as a private deed of gift to promote cultural education within the University of Ghana. He singularly cut the commemorative opening tape for the opening of the Ablade Glover's Gallery (Alliance Gallery) at Omanye House in Accra. He was a lifelong Presbyterian and was known to worship at the Ebenezer Presbyterian Church, Osu.\n"}
{"id": "25989728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25989728", "title": "Francis Garchitorena", "text": "Francis Garchitorena\n\nFrancis Xavier Garchitorena (January 8, 1938 - February 25, 2005) was a Filipino Sandiganbayan Presiding Judge from 1986 to 2002. \n\nFrancis studied in Ateneo de Naga University and graduated from the Law School of Ateneo de Manila University in 1962. He was one of the leading lawyers during his time. He was appointed Sandigan Bayan Justice. Minita V. Chico Nazario was appointed to fill his place.\n\nIn 2001, he quarreled with Associate Justice Anacleto Badoy, but engaged in dialogue.\n\nGarchitorena's biological father, Buenaventura de Erquiaga Palacios (1895-1959), was a Spanish honorary vice consul, from Ea, Biscay. Garchitorena's mother, Flor Chereau Garchitorena (1902-1981), came from Tigaon, Camarines Sur, and was of Spanish and French descent. Flor's brother was Don Mariano Garchitorena, governor of Camarines Sur, secretary of Agriculture and commerce, and Minister to Spain.\n\nGarchitorena was the grandson by paternal line of Felipe Santiago de Erquiaga de Odiaga (1859-?) and María Jesús Palacios Goitia (1858-?), and by maternal line of Don Andrés Garchitorena who also had Indian blood, a revolutionary mason and member of Aguinaldo's Hong Kong Junta, and of Marguerite Chereau, who was French.\n\nOn January 17, 2005, Garchitorena was diagnosed with brain tumor. He died at Makati Medical Center in Makati at 8:45 PM on February 25, 2005.\n"}
{"id": "16018095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16018095", "title": "Frank Grevil", "text": "Frank Grevil\n\nFrank Søholm Grevil (born 1960) is a Danish former intelligence agent. He held the rank of major in Forsvarets Efterretningstjeneste, the Danish military intelligence agency. On February 22, 2004 he acted as a whistle blower leaking classified information about the FE's assessment of the possibility of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The analysis of FE concluded that there was no certain information about operational weapons of mass destruction. This was not aligned with the statement of Danish prime minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen to the Danish parliament that there was evidence that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction.\n\nFrank Grevil was sentenced to four months in jail for leaking these documents.\n\nIn 2009, he received the Sam Adams Award for integrity in intelligence which had earlier been given to Katharine Gun and Andrew Wilkie.\n\nIn December 2010 Grevil signed a declaration of support for WikiLeaks.\nAmong others on the list were Daniel Ellsberg and Colleen Rowley.\n"}
{"id": "4197833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4197833", "title": "Fritz Klein", "text": "Fritz Klein\n\nFritz Klein (24 November 1888 – 13 December 1945) was a German Nazi doctor-war criminal, hanged for his role in atrocities at Bergen-Belsen concentration camp during the Holocaust.\n\nKlein was born in Feketehalom, Austria-Hungary (now Codlea in central Romania).\n\nKlein was considered a Volksdeutscher, or ethnic German. He studied medicine at the University of Budapest and completed his military service in Romania, finishing his studies in Budapest after World War I. He lived and worked as a doctor in Siebenbürgen (Transylvania), Romania.\n\nIn 1939, as a Romanian citizen he was drafted into the Romanian army, where after the outbreak of the war with the Soviet Union in 1941 he served as paramedic on the eastern front. In May 1943, Romanian fascist dictator Marshal Antonescu, on a demand from Hitler to release ethnic Germans in the Romanian Army, drafted them into the German army. Hence Klein became a soldier in the Waffen-SS, was listed in the SS-Personalhauptamt, and was posted to Yugoslavia.\n\nOn 15 December 1943, he arrived in Auschwitz concentration camp, where at first he served as a camp doctor in the women’s camp in Birkenau. Subsequently, he worked as a camp doctor in the Gypsy camp. He also participated in numerous selections (\"Selektionen\") on the ramp. In December 1944 he was transferred to Neuengamme concentration camp, from where he was sent to Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in January 1945. He remained at the camp with commandant Josef Kramer and assisted in handing it over to British troops. Klein was imprisoned and forced to help bury all unburied corpses in mass graves. The British Army Film and Photographic Unit Number 5 photographed Klein standing in a mass grave, in a well-known 1945 photo (seen on the right).\n\nWhen asked how he reconciled his actions with his ethical obligations as a physician, Klein famously stated:\n\"My Hippocratic oath tells me to cut a gangrenous appendix out of the human body. The Jews are the gangrenous appendix of mankind. That's why I cut them out.\"\n\nKlein and 44 other camp staff were tried in the Belsen Trial by a British military court at Lüneburg. The trial lasted several weeks, from September to November 1945. During the trial Anita Lasker testified that he took part in selections for the gas chamber.\n\nHe was sentenced to death and hanged at by Albert Pierrepoint on 13 December 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "3395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3395", "title": "Gautama Buddha", "text": "Gautama Buddha\n\nGautama Buddha (c. 563/480 – c. 483/400 BCE), also known as Siddhārtha Gautama (सिद्धार्थ गौतम) in Sanskrit or Siddhāttha Gotama (शिद्धत्थ गोतम) in Pali , Shakyamuni (i.e. \"Sage of the Shakyas\") Buddha, or simply the Buddha, after the title of \"Buddha\", was a monk (śramaṇa), mendicant, and sage, on whose teachings Buddhism was founded. He is believed to have lived and taught mostly in the northeastern part of ancient India sometime between the 6th and 4th centuries BCE.\n\nGautama taught a Middle Way between sensual indulgence and the severe asceticism found in the śramaṇa movement common in his region. He later taught throughout other regions of eastern India such as Magadha and Kosala.\n\nGautama is the primary figure in Buddhism. He is believed by Buddhists to be an enlightened teacher who attained full Buddhahood and shared his insights to help sentient beings end rebirth and suffering. Accounts of his life, discourses and monastic rules are believed by Buddhists to have been summarised after his death and memorized by his followers. Various collections of teachings attributed to him were passed down by oral tradition and first committed to writing about 400 years later.\n\nIn Vaishnava Hinduism, the historic Buddha is considered to be an avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu. Of the ten major avatars of Vishnu, Vaishnavites believe Gautama Buddha to be the ninth and most recent incarnation.\n\nScholars are hesitant to make unqualified claims about the historical facts of the Buddha's life. Most people accept that the Buddha lived, taught, and founded a monastic order during the Mahajanapada era during the reign of Bimbisara (, or c. 400 BCE), the ruler of the Magadha empire, and died during the early years of the reign of Ajatasatru, who was the successor of Bimbisara, thus making him a younger contemporary of Mahavira, the Jain tirthankara. While the general sequence of \"birth, maturity, renunciation, search, awakening and liberation, teaching, death\" is widely accepted, there is less consensus on the veracity of many details contained in traditional biographies.\n\nThe times of Gautama's birth and death are uncertain. Most historians in the early 20th century dated his lifetime as c. 563 BCE to 483 BCE. More recently his death is dated later, between 411 and 400 BCE, while at a symposium on this question held in 1988, the majority of those who presented definite opinions gave dates within 20 years either side of 400 BCE for the Buddha's death. These alternative chronologies, however, have not been accepted by all historians.\n\nThe evidence of the early texts suggests that Siddhārtha Gautama was born into the Shakya clan, a community that was on the periphery, both geographically and culturally, of the eastern Indian subcontinent in the 5th century BCE. One of his usual names was \"Sakamuni\" or \"Sakyamunī\" (\"Sage of the Shakyas\"). It was either a small republic, or an oligarchy, and his father was an elected chieftain, or oligarch. According to the Buddhist tradition, Gautama was born in Lumbini, now in modern-day Nepal, and raised in the Shakya capital of Kapilvastu, which may have been either in what is present day Tilaurakot, Nepal or Piprahwa, India. He obtained his enlightenment in Bodh Gaya, gave his first sermon in Sarnath, and died in Kushinagar.\n\nApart from the Vedic Brahmins, the Buddha's lifetime coincided with the flourishing of influential Śramaṇa schools of thought like Ājīvika, Cārvāka, Jainism, and Ajñana. Brahmajala Sutta records sixty-two such schools of thought. In this context, a śramaṇa refers to one who labors, toils, or exerts themselves (for some higher or religious purpose). It was also the age of influential thinkers like Mahavira, Pūraṇa Kassapa, Makkhali Gosāla, Ajita Kesakambalī, Pakudha Kaccāyana, and Sañjaya Belaṭṭhaputta, as recorded in Samaññaphala Sutta, whose viewpoints the Buddha most certainly must have been acquainted with. Indeed, Sariputta and Moggallāna, two of the foremost disciples of the Buddha, were formerly the foremost disciples of Sañjaya Belaṭṭhaputta, the sceptic; and the Pali canon frequently depicts Buddha engaging in debate with the adherents of rival schools of thought. There is also philological evidence to suggest that the two masters, Alara Kalama and Uddaka Ramaputta, were indeed historical figures and they most probably taught Buddha two different forms of meditative techniques. Thus, Buddha was just one of the many śramaṇa philosophers of that time. In an era where holiness of person was judged by their level of asceticism, Buddha was a reformist within the śramaṇa movement, rather than a reactionary against Vedic Brahminism.\n\nHistorically, the life of the Buddha also coincided with the Achaemenid conquest of the Indus Valley during the rule of Darius I from about 517/516 BCE. This Achaemenid occupation of the areas of Gandhara and Sindh, which was to last for about two centuries, was accompanied by the introduction of Achaemenid religions, reformed Mazdaism or early Zoroastrianism, to which Buddhism might have in part reacted. In particular, the ideas of the Buddha may have partly consisted in a rejection of the \"absolutist\" or \"perfectionist\" ideas contained in these Achaemenid religions.\n\nNo written records about Gautama were found from his lifetime or from the one or two centuries thereafter. In the middle of the 3rd century BCE, several Edicts of Ashoka (reigned c. 269–232 BCE) mention the Buddha, and particularly Ashoka's Rummindei Minor Pillar Edict commemorates the Emperor's pilgrimage to Lumbini as the Buddha's birthplace. Another one of his edicts (Minor Rock Edict No. 3) mentions the titles of several \"Dhamma\" texts, establishing the existence of a written Buddhist tradition at least by the time of the Maurya era. These texts may be the precursor of the Pāli Canon. \n\"Sakamuni\" in also mentionned in the reliefs of Bharhut, dated to circa 100 BCE, in relation with his illumination and the Bodhi tree, with the inscription \"Bhagavato Sakamunino Bodho\" (\"The illumination of the Blessed Sakamuni\").\n\nThe oldest surviving Buddhist manuscripts are the Gandhāran Buddhist texts, reported to have been found in or around Haḍḍa near Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan and now preserved in the British Library. They are written in the Gāndhārī language using the Kharosthi script on twenty-seven birch bark manuscripts and date from the first century BCE to the third century CE.\n\nOn the basis of philological evidence, Indologist and Pali expert Oskar von Hinüber says that some of the Pali suttas have retained very archaic place-names, syntax, and historical data from close to the Buddha's lifetime, including the \"Mahāparinibbāṇa Sutta\" which contains a detailed account of the Buddha's final days. Hinüber proposes a composition date of no later than 350–320 BCE for this text, which would allow for a \"true historical memory\" of the events approximately 60 years prior if the Short Chronology for the Buddha's lifetime is accepted (but also reminds that such a text was originally intended more as hagiography than as an exact historical record of events).\n\nThe sources for the life of Siddhārtha Gautama are a variety of different, and sometimes conflicting, traditional biographies. These include the \"Buddhacarita\", \"Lalitavistara Sūtra\", \"Mahāvastu\", and the \"Nidānakathā\". Of these, the \"Buddhacarita\" is the earliest full biography, an epic poem written by the poet Aśvaghoṣa in the first century CE. The \"Lalitavistara Sūtra\" is the next oldest biography, a Mahāyāna/Sarvāstivāda biography dating to the 3rd century CE. The \"Mahāvastu\" from the Mahāsāṃghika Lokottaravāda tradition is another major biography, composed incrementally until perhaps the 4th century CE. The Dharmaguptaka biography of the Buddha is the most exhaustive, and is entitled the \"Abhiniṣkramaṇa Sūtra\", and various Chinese translations of this date between the 3rd and 6th century CE. The \"Nidānakathā\" is from the Theravada tradition in Sri Lanka and was composed in the 5th century by Buddhaghoṣa.\n\nFrom canonical sources come the Jataka tales, the \"Mahapadana Sutta\" (DN 14), and the \"Achariyabhuta Sutta\" (MN 123), which include selective accounts that may be older, but are not full biographies. The Jātakas retell previous lives of Gautama as a bodhisattva, and the first collection of these can be dated among the earliest Buddhist texts. The \"Mahāpadāna Sutta\" and \"Achariyabhuta Sutta\" both recount miraculous events surrounding Gautama's birth, such as the bodhisattva's descent from the Tuṣita Heaven into his mother's womb.\n\nIn the earliest Buddhist texts, the nikāyas and āgamas, the Buddha is not depicted as possessing omniscience (\"sabbaññu\") nor is he depicted as being an eternal transcendent (\"lokottara\") being. According to Bhikkhu Analayo, ideas of the Buddha's omniscience (along with an increasing tendency to deify him and his biography) are found only later, in the Mahayana sutras and later Pali commentaries or texts such as the \"Mahāvastu\". In the \"Sandaka Sutta\", the Buddha's disciple Ananda outlines an argument against the claims of teachers who say they are all knowing while in the \"Tevijjavacchagotta Sutta\" the Buddha himself states that he has never made a claim to being omniscient, instead he claimed to have the \"higher knowledges\" (abhijñā). The earliest biographical material from the Pali Nikayas focuses on the Buddha's life as a śramaṇa, his search for enlightenment under various teachers such as Alara Kalama and his forty-five-year career as a teacher.\n\nTraditional biographies of Gautama generally include numerous miracles, omens, and supernatural events. The character of the Buddha in these traditional biographies is often that of a fully transcendent (Skt. \"lokottara\") and perfected being who is unencumbered by the mundane world. In the \"Mahāvastu\", over the course of many lives, Gautama is said to have developed supramundane abilities including: a painless birth conceived without intercourse; no need for sleep, food, medicine, or bathing, although engaging in such \"in conformity with the world\"; omniscience, and the ability to \"suppress karma\". Nevertheless, some of the more ordinary details of his life have been gathered from these traditional sources. In modern times there has been an attempt to form a secular understanding of Siddhārtha Gautama's life by omitting the traditional supernatural elements of his early biographies.\n\nAndrew Skilton writes that the Buddha was never historically regarded by Buddhist traditions as being merely human:\n\nThe ancient Indians were generally unconcerned with chronologies, being more focused on philosophy. Buddhist texts reflect this tendency, providing a clearer picture of what Gautama may have taught than of the dates of the events in his life. These texts contain descriptions of the culture and daily life of ancient India which can be corroborated from the Jain scriptures, and make the Buddha's time the earliest period in Indian history for which significant accounts exist. British author Karen Armstrong writes that although there is very little information that can be considered historically sound, we can be reasonably confident that Siddhārtha Gautama did exist as a historical figure. Michael Carrithers goes a bit further by stating that the most general outline of \"birth, maturity, renunciation, search, awakening and liberation, teaching, death\" must be true.\n\nThe Buddhist tradition regards Lumbini, in present-day Nepal to be the birthplace of the Buddha. He grew up in Kapilavastu. The exact site of ancient Kapilavastu is unknown. It may have been either Piprahwa, Uttar Pradesh, in present-day India, or Tilaurakot, in present-day Nepal. Both places belonged to the Sakya territory, and are located only 15 miles apart.\n\nGautama was born as a Kshatriya, the son of Śuddhodana, \"an elected chief of the Shakya clan\", whose capital was Kapilavastu, and who were later annexed by the growing Kingdom of Kosala during the Buddha's lifetime. Gautama was the family name. His mother, Maya (Māyādevī), Suddhodana's wife, was a Koliyan princess. Legend has it that, on the night Siddhartha was conceived, Queen Maya dreamt that a white elephant with six white tusks entered her right side, and ten months later Siddhartha was born. As was the Shakya tradition, when his mother Queen Maya became pregnant, she left Kapilavastu for her father's kingdom to give birth. However, her son is said to have been born on the way, at Lumbini, in a garden beneath a sal tree.\n\nThe day of the Buddha's birth is widely celebrated in Theravada countries as Vesak. Buddha's Birthday is called \"Buddha Purnima\" in Nepal, Bangladesh, and India as he is believed to have been born on a full moon day. Various sources hold that the Buddha's mother died at his birth, a few days or seven days later. The infant was given the name Siddhartha (Pāli: Siddhattha), meaning \"he who achieves his aim\". During the birth celebrations, the hermit seer Asita journeyed from his mountain abode and announced that the child would either become a great king (chakravartin) or a great sadhu. By traditional account, this occurred after Siddhartha placed his feet in Asita's hair and Asita examined the birthmarks. Suddhodana held a naming ceremony on the fifth day, and invited eight Brahmin scholars to read the future. All gave a dual prediction that the baby would either become a great king or a great holy man. Kondañña, the youngest, and later to be the first arhat other than the Buddha, was reputed to be the only one who unequivocally predicted that Siddhartha would become a Buddha.\n\nWhile later tradition and legend characterised Śuddhodana as a hereditary monarch, the descendant of the Suryavansha (Solar dynasty) of (Pāli: Okkāka), many scholars think that Śuddhodana was the elected chief of a tribal confederacy.\n\nEarly texts suggest that Gautama was not familiar with the dominant religious teachings of his time until he left on his religious quest, which is said to have been motivated by existential concern for the human condition. The state of the Shakya clan was not a monarchy and seems to have been structured either as an oligarchy, or as a form of republic. The more egalitarian gana-sangha form of government, as a political alternative to the strongly hierarchical kingdoms, may have influenced the development of the śramanic Jain and Buddhist sanghas, where monarchies tended toward Vedic Brahmanism.\n\nSiddhartha was brought up by his mother's younger sister, Maha Pajapati. By tradition, he is said to have been destined by birth to the life of a prince and had three palaces (for seasonal occupation) built for him. His father, said to be King Śuddhodana, wishing for his son to be a great king, is said to have shielded him from religious teachings and from knowledge of human suffering. While Śuddhodana has traditionally been depicted as a king, and Siddhartha as his prince, more recent scholarship suggests the Shakya were in-fact organised as a semi-republican oligarchy rather than a monarchy.\n\nWhen he reached the age of 16, his father reputedly arranged his marriage to a cousin of the same age named Yaśodharā (Pāli: Yasodharā). According to the early Buddhist Texts of several schools, and numerous post-canonical accounts, she gave birth to a son, named Rāhula. Siddhartha is said to have spent 29 years as a prince in Kapilavastu. Although his father ensured that Siddhartha was provided with everything he could want or need, Buddhist scriptures say that the future Buddha felt that material wealth was not life's ultimate goal.\n\nAt the age of 29, Siddhartha left his palace to meet his subjects. Despite his father's efforts to hide from him the sick, aged and suffering, Siddhartha was said to have seen an old man. When his charioteer Channa explained to him that all people grew old, the prince went on further trips beyond the palace. On these he encountered a diseased man, a decaying corpse, and an ascetic. These depressed him, and he initially strove to overcome ageing, sickness, and death by living the life of an ascetic.\n\nAccompanied by Channa and riding his horse Kanthaka, Gautama quit his palace for the life of a mendicant. It's said that \"the horse's hooves were muffled by the gods\" to prevent guards from knowing of his departure.\n\nGautama initially went to Rajagaha and began his ascetic life by begging for alms in the street. After King Bimbisara's men recognised Siddhartha and the king learned of his quest, Bimbisara offered Siddhartha the throne. Siddhartha rejected the offer but promised to visit his kingdom of Magadha first, upon attaining enlightenment.\n\nHe left Rajagaha and practised under two hermit teachers of yogic meditation. After mastering the teachings of Alara Kalama (Skr. Ārāḍa Kālāma), he was asked by Kalama to succeed him. However, Gautama felt unsatisfied by the practice, and moved on to become a student of yoga with Udaka Ramaputta (Skr. Udraka Rāmaputra). With him he achieved high levels of meditative consciousness and was again asked to succeed his teacher. But, once more, he was not satisfied, and again moved on.\n\nAccording to the early Buddhist texts, after realising that meditative dhyana was the right path to , but that extreme asceticism didn't work, Gautama discovered what Buddhists know as being, the Middle Way—a path of moderation away from the extremes of self-indulgence and self-mortification, or the Noble Eightfold Path, as described in the Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta, which is regarded as the first discourse of the Buddha. In a famous incident, after becoming starved and weakened, he is said to have accepted milk and rice pudding from a village girl named Sujata. Such was his emaciated appearance that she wrongly believed him to be a spirit that had granted her a wish.\n\nFollowing this incident, Gautama was famously seated under a pipal tree—now known as the Bodhi tree—in Bodh Gaya, India, when he vowed never to arise until he had found the truth. Kaundinya and four other companions, believing that he had abandoned his search and become undisciplined, ceased to stay with him, and went to somewhere else. After a reputed 49 days of meditation, at the age of 35, he is said to have attained Enlightenment, and became known as the \"Buddha\" or \"Awakened One\" (\"Buddha\" is also sometimes translated as \"The Enlightened One\").\n\nAccording to some sutras of the Pali canon, at the time of his awakening he realised complete insight into the Four Noble Truths, thereby attaining liberation from \"samsara\", the endless cycle of rebirth, suffering and dying again. According to scholars, this story of the awakening and the stress on \"liberating insight\" is a later development in the Buddhist tradition, where the Buddha may have regarded the practice of \"dhyana\" as leading to \"nirvana\" and \"moksha\".\n\nNirvana is the extinguishing of the \"fires\" of desire, hatred, and ignorance, that keep the cycle of suffering and rebirth going. Nirvana is also regarded as the \"end of the world\", in that no personal identity or boundaries of the mind remain. In such a state, a being is said to possess the Ten Characteristics, belonging to every Buddha.\n\nAccording to a story in the \"Āyācana Sutta\" (Samyutta Nikaya VI.1)—a scripture found in the Pāli and other canons—immediately after his awakening, the Buddha debated whether or not he should teach the \"Dharma\" to others. He was concerned that humans were so overpowered by ignorance, greed and hatred that they could never recognise the path, which is subtle, deep and hard to grasp. However, in the story, Brahmā Sahampati convinced him, arguing that at least some will understand it. The Buddha relented, and agreed to teach.\n\nAfter his awakening, the Buddha met Taphussa and Bhallika—two merchant brothers from the city of Balkh in what is currently Afghanistan—who became his first lay disciples. It is said that each was given hairs from his head, which are now claimed to be enshrined as relics in the Shwe Dagon Temple in Rangoon, Burma. The Buddha intended to visit Asita, and his former teachers, Alara Kalama and Udaka Ramaputta, to explain his findings, but they had already died.\n\nHe then travelled to the Deer Park near Varanasi (Benares) in northern India, where he set in motion what Buddhists call the Wheel of Dharma by delivering his first sermon to the five companions with whom he had sought enlightenment. Together with him, they formed the first : the company of Buddhist monks.\n\nAll five become arahants, and within the first two months, with the conversion of Yasa and fifty-four of his friends, the number of such arahants is said to have grown to 60. The conversion of three brothers named Kassapa followed, with their reputed 200, 300 and 500 disciples, respectively. This swelled the sangha to more than 1,000.\n\nFor the remaining 45 years of his life, the Buddha is said to have travelled in the Gangetic Plain, in what is now Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and southern Nepal, teaching a diverse range of people: from nobles to servants, murderers such as Angulimala, and cannibals such as Alavaka. Although the Buddha's language remains unknown, it's likely that he taught in one or more of a variety of closely related Middle Indo-Aryan dialects, of which Pali may be a standardisation.\n\nThe sangha travelled through the subcontinent, expounding the dharma. This continued throughout the year, except during the four months of the Vassa rainy season when ascetics of all religions rarely travelled. One reason was that it was more difficult to do so without causing harm to animal life. At this time of year, the sangha would retreat to monasteries, public parks or forests, where people would come to them.\n\nThe first vassana was spent at Varanasi when the sangha was formed. After this, the Buddha kept a promise to travel to Rajagaha, capital of Magadha, to visit King Bimbisara. During this visit, Sariputta and Maudgalyayana were converted by Assaji, one of the first five disciples, after which they were to become the Buddha's two foremost followers. The Buddha spent the next three seasons at Veluvana Bamboo Grove monastery in Rajagaha, the capital of Magadha.\n\nUpon hearing of his son's awakening, Suddhodana sent, over a period, ten delegations to ask him to return to Kapilavastu. On the first nine occasions, the delegates failed to deliver the message and instead joined the sangha to become arahants. The tenth delegation, led by Kaludayi, a childhood friend of Gautama's (who also became an arahant), however, delivered the message.\n\nNow two years after his awakening, the Buddha agreed to return, and made a two-month journey by foot to Kapilavastu, teaching the dharma as he went. At his return, the royal palace prepared a midday meal, but the sangha was making an alms round in Kapilavastu. Hearing this, Suddhodana approached his son, the Buddha, saying:\nThe Buddha is said to have replied:\nBuddhist texts say that Suddhodana invited the sangha into the palace for the meal, followed by a dharma talk. After this he is said to have become a sotapanna. During the visit, many members of the royal family joined the sangha. The Buddha's cousins Ananda and Anuruddha became two of his five chief disciples. At the age of seven, his son Rahula also joined, and became one of his ten chief disciples. His half-brother Nanda also joined and became an arahant.\n\nOf the Buddha's disciples, Sariputta, Maudgalyayana, Mahakasyapa, Ananda and Anuruddha are believed to have been the five closest to him. His ten foremost disciples were reputedly completed by the quintet of Upali, Subhoti, Rahula, Mahakaccana and Punna.\n\nIn the fifth vassana, the Buddha was staying at Mahavana near Vesali when he heard news of the impending death of his father. He is said to have gone to Suddhodana and taught the dharma, after which his father became an arahant.\n\nThe king's death and cremation was to inspire the creation of an order of nuns. Buddhist texts record that the Buddha was reluctant to ordain women. His foster mother Maha Pajapati, for example, approached him, asking to join the sangha, but he refused. Maha Pajapati, however, was so intent on the path of awakening that she led a group of royal Sakyan and Koliyan ladies, which followed the sangha on a long journey to Rajagaha. In time, after Ananda championed their cause, the Buddha is said to have reconsidered and, five years after the formation of the sangha, agreed to the ordination of women as nuns. He reasoned that males and females had an equal capacity for awakening. But he gave women additional rules (Vinaya) to follow.\n\nAccording to the \"Mahaparinibbana Sutta\" of the Pali canon, at the age of 80, the Buddha announced that he would soon reach \"parinirvana\", or the final deathless state, and abandon his earthly body. After this, the Buddha ate his last meal, which he had received as an offering from a blacksmith named Cunda. Falling violently ill, Buddha instructed his attendant Ānanda to convince Cunda that the meal eaten at his place had nothing to do with his passing and that his meal would be a source of the greatest merit as it provided the last meal for a Buddha. Mettanando and von Hinüber argue that the Buddha died of mesenteric infarction, a symptom of old age, rather than food poisoning.\n\nThe precise contents of the Buddha's final meal are not clear, due to variant scriptural traditions and ambiguity over the translation of certain significant terms; the Theravada tradition generally believes that the Buddha was offered some kind of pork, while the Mahayana tradition believes that the Buddha consumed some sort of truffle or other mushroom. These may reflect the different traditional views on Buddhist vegetarianism and the precepts for monks and nuns.\n\nWaley suggests that Theravadins would take \"suukaramaddava\" (the contents of the Buddha's last meal), which can translate literally as \"pig-soft\", to mean \"soft flesh of a pig\" or \"pig's soft-food\", that is, after Neumann, a soft food favoured by pigs, assumed to be a truffle. He argues (also after Neumann) that as \"(p)lant names tend to be local and dialectical\", as there are several plants known to have \"suukara-\" (pig) as part of their names, and as Pali Buddhism developed in an area remote from the Buddha's death, \"suukaramaddava\" could easily have been a type of plant whose local name was unknown to those in Pali regions. Specifically, local writers writing soon after the Buddha's death knew more about their flora than Theravadin commentator Buddhaghosa who lived hundreds of years and hundreds of kilometres remote in time and space from the events described. Unaware that it may have been a local plant name and with no Theravadin prohibition against eating animal flesh, Theravadins would not have questioned the Buddha eating meat and interpreted the term accordingly.\n\nAccording to Buddhist tradition, the Buddha died at Kuśināra (present-day Kushinagar, India), which became a pilgrimage centre. Ananda protested the Buddha's decision to enter \"parinirvana\" in the abandoned jungles of Kuśināra of the Malla kingdom. The Buddha, however, is said to have reminded Ananda how Kushinara was a land once ruled by a righteous wheel-turning king and the appropriate place for him to die.\n\nThe Buddha then asked all the attendant Bhikkhus to clarify any doubts or questions they had and cleared them all in a way which others could not do. They had none. According to Buddhist scriptures, he then finally entered \"parinirvana\". The Buddha's final words are reported to have been: \"All composite things (Saṅkhāra) are perishable. Strive for your own liberation with diligence\" (Pali: 'vayadhammā saṅkhārā appamādena sampādethā'). His body was cremated and the relics were placed in monuments or stupas, some of which are believed to have survived until the present. For example, the Temple of the Tooth or \"Dalada Maligawa\" in Sri Lanka is the place where what some believe to be the relic of the right tooth of Buddha is kept at present.\n\nAccording to the Pāli historical chronicles of Sri Lanka, the and , the coronation of Emperor Aśoka (Pāli: Asoka) is 218 years after the death of the Buddha. According to two textual records in Chinese ( and ), the coronation of Emperor Aśoka is 116 years after the death of the Buddha. Therefore, the time of Buddha's passing is either 486 BCE according to Theravāda record or 383 BCE according to Mahayana record. However, the actual date traditionally accepted as the date of the Buddha's death in Theravāda countries is 544 or 545 BCE, because the reign of Emperor Aśoka was traditionally reckoned to be about 60 years earlier than current estimates. In Burmese Buddhist tradition, the date of the Buddha's death is 13 May 544 BCE. whereas in Thai tradition it is 11 March 545 BCE.\n\nAt his death, the Buddha is famously believed to have told his disciples to follow no leader. Mahakasyapa was chosen by the sangha to be the chairman of the First Buddhist Council, with the two chief disciples Maudgalyayana and Sariputta having died before the Buddha.\n\nWhile in the Buddha's days he was addressed by the very respected titles Buddha, Shākyamuni, Shākyasimha, Bhante and Bho, he was known after his \"parinirvana\" \"nirvana\" as \"Arihant\", \"Bhagavā/Bhagavat/Bhagwān\", \"Mahāvira\", \"Jina/Jinendra\", \"Sāstr\", \"Sugata\", and most popularly in scriptures as \"Tathāgata\".\n\nAfter his death, Buddha's cremation relics were divided amongst 8 royal families and his disciples; centuries later they would be enshrined by King Ashoka into 84,000 stupas. Many supernatural legends surround the history of alleged relics as they accompanied the spread of Buddhism and gave legitimacy to rulers.\n\nAn extensive and colourful physical description of the Buddha has been laid down in scriptures. A kshatriya by birth, he had military training in his upbringing, and by Shakyan tradition was required to pass tests to demonstrate his worthiness as a warrior in order to marry. He had a strong enough body to be noticed by one of the kings and was asked to join his army as a general. He is also believed by Buddhists to have \"the 32 Signs of the Great Man\".\n\nThe Brahmin Sonadanda described him as \"handsome, good-looking, and pleasing to the eye, with a most beautiful complexion. He has a godlike form and countenance, he is by no means unattractive.\" (D, I:115)\n\n\"It is wonderful, truly marvellous, how serene is the good Gotama's appearance, how clear and radiant his complexion, just as the golden jujube in autumn is clear and radiant, just as a palm-tree fruit just loosened from the stalk is clear and radiant, just as an adornment of red gold wrought in a crucible by a skilled goldsmith, deftly beaten and laid on a yellow-cloth shines, blazes and glitters, even so, the good Gotama's senses are calmed, his complexion is clear and radiant.\" (A, I:181)\n\nA disciple named Vakkali, who later became an arahant, was so obsessed by the Buddha's physical presence that the Buddha is said to have felt impelled to tell him to desist, and to have reminded him that he should know the Buddha through the Dhamma and not through physical appearances.\n\nAlthough there are no extant representations of the Buddha in human form until around the 1st century CE (see Buddhist art), descriptions of the physical characteristics of fully enlightened buddhas are attributed to the Buddha in the Digha Nikaya's \"\" (D, I:142). In addition, the Buddha's physical appearance is described by Yasodhara to their son Rahula upon the Buddha's first post-Enlightenment return to his former princely palace in the non-canonical Pali devotional hymn, \"Narasīha Gāthā\" (\"The Lion of Men\").\n\nAmong the 32 main characteristics it is mentioned that Buddha has blue eyes.\n\nRecollection of nine virtues attributed to the Buddha is a common Buddhist meditation and devotional practice called Buddhānusmṛti. The nine virtues are also among the 40 Buddhist meditation subjects. The nine virtues of the Buddha appear throughout the Tipitaka, and include:\n\nIn the Pali Canon, the Buddha uses many Brahmanical devices. For example, in Samyutta Nikaya 111, Majjhima Nikaya 92 and Vinaya i 246 of the Pali Canon, the Buddha praises the Agnihotra as the foremost sacrifice and the Gayatri mantra as the foremost meter:\nOne method to obtain information on the oldest core of Buddhism is to compare the oldest versions of the Pali Canon and other texts, such as the surviving portions of Sarvastivada, Mulasarvastivada, Mahisasaka, Dharmaguptaka, and the Chinese Agamas. The reliability of these sources, and the possibility of drawing out a core of oldest teachings, is a matter of dispute. According to Vetter, inconsistencies remain, and other methods must be applied to resolve those inconsistencies.\n\nAccording to Schmithausen, there are three positions held by scholars of Buddhism:\n\nA core problem in the study of early Buddhism is the relation between \"dhyana\" and insight. Schmithausen notes that the mention of the four noble truths as constituting \"liberating insight\", which is attained after mastering the Rupa Jhanas, is a later addition to texts such as Majjhima Nikaya 36.\n\nAccording to Tilmann Vetter, the core of earliest Buddhism is the practice of \"dhyāna\", as a workable alternative to painful ascetic practices. Bronkhorst agrees that \"Dhyāna\" was a Buddhist invention, whereas Norman notes that \"the Buddha's way to release [...] was by means of meditative practices.\" Discriminating insight into transiency as a separate path to liberation was a later development.\n\nAccording to the Mahāsaccakasutta, from the fourth \"jhana\" the Buddha gained \"bodhi\". Yet, it is not clear what he was awakened to. According to Schmithausen and Bronkhorst, \"liberating insight\" is a later addition to this text, and reflects a later development and understanding in early Buddhism. The mentioning of the four truths as constituting \"liberating insight\" introduces a logical problem, since the four truths depict a linear path of practice, the knowledge of which is in itself not depicted as being liberating:\nAlthough \"\"Nibbāna\"\" (Sanskrit: \"Nirvāna\") is the common term for the desired goal of this practice, many other terms can be found throughout the Nikayas, which are not specified.\n\nAccording to Vetter, the description of the Buddhist path may initially have been as simple as the term \"the middle way\". In time, this short description was elaborated, resulting in the description of the eightfold path.\n\nAccording to both Bronkhorst and Anderson, the four truths became a substitution for prajna, or \"liberating insight\", in the suttas in those texts where \"liberating insight\" was preceded by the four jhanas. According to Bronkhorst, the four truths may not have been formulated in earliest Buddhism, and did not serve in earliest Buddhism as a description of \"liberating insight\". Gotama's teachings may have been personal, \"adjusted to the need of each person.\"\n\nThe \"three marks of existence\" may reflect Upanishadic or other influences. K.R. Norman supposes that these terms were already in use at the Buddha's time, and were familiar to his listeners.\n\nThe Brahma-vihara was in origin probably a brahmanic term; but its usage may have been common to the Sramana traditions.\n\nIn time, \"liberating insight\" became an essential feature of the Buddhist tradition. The following teachings, which are commonly seen as essential to Buddhism, are later formulations which form part of the explanatory framework of this \"liberating insight\":\n\nSome Hindus regard Gautama as the 9th avatar of Vishnu. However, Buddha's teachings deny the authority of the Vedas and the concepts of Brahman-Atman. Consequently Buddhism is generally classified as a \"nāstika\" school (heterodox, literally \"It is not so\") in contrast to the six orthodox schools of Hinduism.\n\nThe Buddha is regarded as a prophet by the minority Ahmadiyya sect of Muslims—a sect considered deviant and rejected as apostate by mainstream Islam. Some early Chinese Taoist-Buddhists thought the Buddha to be a reincarnation of Laozi.\n\nDisciples of the Cao Đài religion worship the Buddha as a major religious teacher. His image can be found in both their Holy See and on the home altar. He is revealed during communication with Divine Beings as son of their Supreme Being (God the Father) together with other major religious teachers and founders like Jesus, Laozi, and Confucius.\n\nThe Christian Saint Josaphat is based on the Buddha. The name comes from the Sanskrit \"Bodhisattva\" via Arabic \"Būdhasaf\" and Georgian \"Iodasaph\". The only story in which St. Josaphat appears, \"Barlaam and Josaphat\", is based on the life of the Buddha. Josaphat was included in earlier editions of the Roman Martyrology (feast day 27 November)—though not in the Roman Missal—and in the Eastern Orthodox Church liturgical calendar (26 August).\n\nIn the ancient Gnostic sect of Manichaeism, the Buddha is listed among the prophets who preached the word of God before Mani.\n\nIn Sikhism, Buddha is mentioned as the 23rd avatar of Vishnu in the Chaubis Avtar, a composition in Dasam Granth traditionally and historically attributed to Guru Gobind Singh.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n The Buddha \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16976996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16976996", "title": "Great Greeks", "text": "Great Greeks\n\nGreat Greeks (, \"Megali Ellines\") is a television program, produced and broadcast by the Greek television network Skai TV, based on the BBC's equivalent show \"100 Greatest Britons\". The show features lists and biographies of influential persons, who came to prominence in their fields throughout the history of Greece, in order to be determined through a voting procedure who is considered the greatest Greek of all time by the audience of Greece.\n\nThe whole format of the show is made up of three parts. The first part consisted of a voting procedure, which began on 16 April 2008 and lasted until 7 May 2008, in order to choose the 100 predominant personalities. The second part launched with a couple of two-hour-long episodes, which presented the top 100 and revealed the 10 nominees. A new voting began on 23 February 2009, with the audience assuming to vote for the greatest among the final 10 persons, while a series of ten episodes contains extensive biographies of the 10 nominees.\n\nEach episode features a celebrity supporting a nominee. The third part, the Great Final, took place on 18 May 2009, hosted by Alexis Papahelas. It was a live debate between the ten celebrity supporters of the previous episodes and twenty-five advocates, until the end of the voting and the announcement of the Greatest Greek.\n\nThe final ranking of the 10 Greatest Greeks.\n\nOther honourable mentions: Yiannis Kelidis\n\nAncient Greece (27)\n\nByzantine Era (6)\n\nModern Era (67)\nLeaders (37)\n\nArtists (32)\n\nIntellectuals (22)\n\nReligion (4)\nSports (3)\nBusiness (1)\nOther (1)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53764987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53764987", "title": "Haag Brothers", "text": "Haag Brothers\n\nThe brothers Eugene Haag (11 February 1808 – 5 March 1868) and Émile Haag (18 November 1810 – 11 May 1865) were two French Protestant historians and theologians, known collectively as the Frères Haag or the Haag Brothers. \n\nThey were born in Montbéliard. Both died in Paris, Eugene at the age of 60 and Émile at the age of 54.\n"}
{"id": "14914295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14914295", "title": "Habib Girgis", "text": "Habib Girgis\n\nArchdeacon Habib Qozman Mankarious Girgis (\"Saint Habib Girgis\" : for \"\"Beloved\" George\" ; 1876 – 21 August 1951) was a modern-day dean of the Catechetical School of Alexandria.\n\nHe was the very first student for the modern-day Theological School, and was thus appointed to succeed his predecessor, Youssef Bey Mankarious, in the year 1918, as the second dean of the renewed center of theology.\n\nOn 20 June 2013, he was canonised as a saint by the Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church. \n\nBefore he became the head of renowned Theological Seminary, Habib Girgis felt that preaching and adult education were not sufficient enough for the advancement of the Coptic Orthodox Church. Protestant and Catholic Missionaries have been at work since the mid-nineteenth century, with the aim to radically influence the views of the Copts in order to\nabandon their long lasting faith in Oriental Orthodoxy. Thus, with many issues at hand, Habib Girgis decided to establish Sunday schools at the turn of the twentieth century as a means of satisfying the need for education. As a result, Coptic Orthodox Sunday schools were founded in major cities in Egypt in the year 1900–15 years before there were even Egyptian public schools. The Sunday school movement flourished in Egypt after much hard work, and now, Coptic studies thrive in Egypt and abroad.\n\nAs Habib Girgis saw it, the interest of young children were the true foundations of Sunday schools, and by 1900, Sunday school was the main pillar for the renaissance of Coptic Orthodox Christianity in the twentieth century until present, thanks in part to the hard work of Habib Girgis and other famous modern-day Sunday school teachers in the Coptic Church. Coptic churches and villages throughout Egypt at the start of the twentieth century felt that they needed to include better curriculum and more textbooks. By the year 1899, Pope Cyril V issued the need to teach children to learn and deepen their faith, as Habib Girgis visualized the need for raising children in accordance with the teachings of Christianity and the spirit of faithful patriotism.\n\nHabib Girgis worked to restructure Sunday school curricula significantly, as he had striven to do what he did eventually: \"to improve academic standards\".\n\nHe dedicated his life to the seminary and its improvement. Habib Girgis assisted the Pope in expanding its buildings in Mahmasha. Pope Kyrillos V often visited the seminary and blessed its students. This deacon was a skillful speaker. He accompanied the Pope in his pastoral visits to Upper Egypt and Sudan. He translated many religious books from foreign languages to Arabic and published El-Karma periodical, to spread the facts of the faith in a positive way. He published many books, among them were: The Seven Sacraments of the Church, The Consoler of the Faithful, The Mystery of Piety, and many others. He taught and nurtured many generations of clergymen who flourished in the church and filled it with their sermons and religious publications.\n\nHis term as dean ended with his death in 1951. However, Pope Yusab II appointed Father Ibrahim Attia later that year.\n\nWith Father Ibrahim, who did carry the work on, there were many new improvements in the years to come. This would eventually lead up to Bishop (the recently departed Pope) Shenouda's involvement as the current dean of the Catechetical School of Alexandria.\n\nOn 20 June 2013, Announcement of the Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church, presided over by Pope Tawadros II, by the sanctity of Habib Girgis. \n\nA Biography called “Habib Girgis, Coptic orthodox Educator and A light in the Darkness” by Ex-Bishop Anba Suriel was published by SVS Press in 2017 and includes newly discovered texts from the Coptic Orthodox Archives in Cairo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43927266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43927266", "title": "Halime Hatun", "text": "Halime Hatun\n\nHalime Hatun () was the wife of Ertuğrul Bey, and the mother of Osman I, the founder of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nHalime Hatun (born Halime Sultan) was a Seljuk princess who was the daughter of Mesud II. She married Ertuğrul and gave birth to three sons, Osman I, Gündüz Alp and Savcı Bey. Historian Heath W. Lowry states that Osman I's mother is unknown. The burial place of Halime Hatun is located in the garden of the Ertuğrul Gazi's grave in Söğüt.\n\nHer birth name was Halime Sultan as she belonged to the Seljuk Family but as she became the member of the Kayi Tribe, she was called Halime Hatun. After her son's accesion to the ottoman throne, she earned the title Valide Hatun.\n\nEsra Bilgiç appeared as Halime Hatun in the Turkish tv-series \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8137458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8137458", "title": "John Threat", "text": "John Threat\n\nJohn Lee, a.k.a. John Threat, used the name \"Corrupt\" as a member of Masters of Deception (MOD), a New York based hacker group in the early '90s.\n\nAs a result of his participation in the Great Hacker War, between MOD and rival hacker group Legion of Doom, he was indicted on federal wiretapping charges in 1992. He pled guilty and was sentenced to one year at a federal detention center. His participation in the Great Hacker War landed him on the cover of Wired Magazine in 1994.\n\nLee was born on July 6, 1973 in Brooklyn, New York. He grew up in Brownsville, where he was a member of the Decepticons, a Brooklyn-based street gang formed in the early '80s, named after the villains in the Saturday morning cartoon, Transformers. Lee attended Stuyvesant High School and went on to New York University. During his freshman year at NYU, Lee was sentenced to prison for his role in the Great Hacker War.\n\nLee also has editing, producing, and directing credits in film and television. In 2004 he founded Mediathreat, LLC, a film production company. In 2005, he directed the original documentary \"Dead Prez: Bigger than Hip Hop.\" In 2011, he co-directed the music video for MAKE OUT's single \"You Can't Be Friends With Everyone\" with Diane Martel.\n\nLee also gained notoriety in 2001 when he revealed himself as the anonymous editor of UrbanExpose.com, a controversial entertainment gossip website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30873158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873158", "title": "Lachlan McIntosh", "text": "Lachlan McIntosh\n\nLachlan McIntosh (March 17, 1725 – February 20, 1806) was a Scottish American military and political leader during the American Revolution and the early United States. In a 1777 duel, he fatally shot Button Gwinnett, a signer of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nLachlan McIntosh was born near Raits, Badenoch, Scotland. McIntosh's father, John Mòr McIntosh, moved the family to Georgia in 1736 with a group of 100 Scottish settlers; they founded the town of New Inverness (which was later renamed Darien) at the mouth of the Altamaha River. John McIntosh led the colonists as they carved out the new settlement from dense forest. The dangers of frontier life were brought home to Lachlan in 1737 when his younger brother Lewis McIntosh was killed by an alligator while swimming in the river.\n\nGeorgia was then governed by James Oglethorpe, who had founded the colony in 1732. It was a highly militarized colony, as clashes with neighboring Spanish Florida and its fortress city of St. Augustine to the south were common. In one of these clashes in 1740, during the War of Jenkins' Ear, Lachlan's father was captured by the Spanish and held prisoner for two years. The elder McIntosh was eventually released, but his health had deteriorated during his captivity, and he died a few years later. Before his death he had supported the Colony's British Board of Trustees in their opposition to the introduction of African slaves into Georgia, which was demanded by an increasing number of colonists in need of labor. This earned him the gratitude of Oglethorpe. The \"Mòr\" of his title is Scots Gaelic for \"big\".\n\nAfter his father's death, McIntosh was sent to the Bethesda Orphanage in Savannah under the care of the noted evangelist George Whitefield. His elder brother, Colonel William McIntosh, served under Oglethorpe and helped to repulse a Spanish invasion of the colony. Lachlan spent two years at the orphanage before traveling to Fort Frederica to serve as a military cadet. During this time, the Jacobite Rebellion broke out in Scotland. Lachlan and his brother William planned to travel to Scotland and join the rebellion, but General James Oglethorpe, who had become a friend and mentor to the young McIntosh, convinced them to remain in Georgia.\n\nLachlan's brother William has sometimes been confused with William McIntosh of the Creek Nation, who was their cousin. The Creek William McIntosh was the son of Capt. William McIntosh, a Tory in the Revolutionary War, and a high-status Creek woman. The senior William McIntosh was the son of Capt. John McIntosh, who had immigrated with his brother Roderick, and with John \"Mòr\" McIntosh from Scotland. Confusion about the names stems from the fact that on their ship \"The Prince of Wales\", at least five males were named John McIntosh in one form or another.\n\nIn 1748, McIntosh moved to Charleston, South Carolina, where he took a position as a clerk for Henry Laurens, a wealthy merchant and slaveholder. Laurens became a lifelong friend and mentor.\n\nIn 1756 McIntosh married Sarah Threadcraft. He soon returned with her to Georgia, where he studied surveying. He acquired land in the Altamaha River delta and slaves to work it; he became a prosperous rice planter.\n\nBy 1770, McIntosh had become a leader in the independence movement in Georgia. In January 1775 he helped organize delegates to the Provincial Congress from the Darien District of St. Andrew Parish. On January 7, 1776, McIntosh was commissioned as a colonel in the Georgia Militia. He raised the 1st Georgia Regiment of the Georgia Line, organized the defense of Savannah, and helped repel a British assault at the Battle of the Rice Boats in the Savannah River. He was promoted to the rank of brigadier general in the Continental Army, charged with defense of Georgia's southern flank from British incursions from Florida, by then a British possession. On October 22, 1776, McIntosh ordered his brother William to construct a fort on the Satilla River to protect Georgia from Florida. The fort was the first to be named Fort McIntosh.\n\nDuring the period of 1776 to 1777, McIntosh became embroiled in a bitter political dispute with Button Gwinnett, the Speaker of the Georgia Provisional Congress and a radical Whig leader. Their bitter personal rivalry began when McIntosh succeeded Gwinnett as commander of Georgia's Continental Battalion in early 1776. The two men represented opposing factions in a deeply divided Patriot movement in Georgia. Gwinnett had been forced to step aside after his election had been called into question by opposing forces within the independence movement. Gwinnett, thwarted in his military ambitions, became a delegate to the Continental Congress and a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence. He returned to Georgia after his allies gained control of the Provisional Congress and succeeded in electing him speaker. Shortly afterward, he was elected president and commander-in-chief of the Committee of Safety.\n\nGwinnett began purging the government and the military of his political rivals. One of his early targets was George McIntosh, Lachlan's brother, who had opposed Gwinnett's election. Gwinnett had George arrested and charged with treason against the revolution. In addition, Gwinnett had ordered Lachlan McIntosh to lead a poorly planned military expedition into British Florida. The operation was a disaster; and Gwinnett and McIntosh publicly blamed each other for the failure, straining the already tenuous relationship between the two men.\n\nOn May 1, 1777, Lachlan McIntosh, a staunch supporter of John Treutlen for Governor, addressed the Georgia assembly and denounced Gwinnett in the harshest terms, calling Gwinnett a \"scoundrel and lying rascal.\" Gwinnett sent a written challenge to McIntosh demanding an apology or satisfaction. McIntosh refused to apologize, and Gwinnett challenged him to a duel.\n\nOn May 16, in a field owned by James Wright a few miles east of Savannah, Gwinnett and McIntosh met to duel with pistols. At a distance of 12 paces, the two men leveled and fired virtually simultaneously. Gwinnett received a ball to the thigh and McIntosh was struck in the leg. McIntosh would recover from his wounds, but Gwinnett's wound was mortal and he died three days later. Gwinnett's allies had McIntosh charged with murder, but he was acquitted in the ensuing trial. George Washington, fearing Gwinnett's allies would take revenge on McIntosh, ordered him to report to Continental Army headquarters on October 10. He spent the winter of 1777–1778 with the Continental Army at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, where he commanded several regiments of North Carolina troops.\n\nOn May 26, 1778, McIntosh was given command of the Western Department of the Continental Army, headquartered at Fort Pitt (present-day Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) on the Pennsylvania frontier. He restored order along the frontier and conceived a plan to attack the British stronghold of Fort Detroit. He established several new forts including Fort Laurens, named for his friend and mentor Henry Laurens, who had become President of the Continental Congress, and Fort McIntosh (near present-day Beaver, Pennsylvania) to prepare for the attack. The expedition against Fort Detroit was doomed however, and the troops were forced to turn back before reaching the fort.\n\nMcIntosh was replaced as commander of the Western Department by Colonel Daniel Brodhead on March 5, 1779. Washington ordered McIntosh to return to the south to join General Benjamin Lincoln in Charleston, South Carolina. He marched to Augusta, Georgia, in command of the Georgia troops, and then proceeded to Savannah, where he commanded the 1st and 5th South Carolina regiments during the siege of Savannah.\n\nAfter the battle, he retired his troops to Charleston where he remained to defend the city from the British Army. On May 12, 1780, General Lincoln was forced to surrender the city to British General Sir Henry Clinton. McIntosh was taken prisoner and remained in captivity until he was exchanged on February 9, 1782, for Charles O'Hara. The war was brought to an end in 1783 with the Peace of Paris which recognized American independence and transferred East and West Florida to Spain.\n\nMcIntosh returned to his plantation to find it ruined by the occupying British. McIntosh tried to restore his property and business interests, but he would spend the rest of his life in relative poverty. He was elected to the Continental Congress in 1784, but never attended. In 1785, he was appointed a commissioner to treat with the southern American Indian tribes. In 1787, he was asked to help settle a boundary dispute between Georgia and South Carolina. In 1791, he was part of the delegation that officially welcomed President George Washington to Georgia.\n\nMcIntosh died in Savannah, Georgia, on February 20, 1806.\n\nMcIntosh is buried alongside his great-nephew Colonel James S. McIntosh (1784–1847) at Colonial Park in Savannah's historic district. His great-great-nephews, James M. McIntosh and John Baillie McIntosh, were generals on opposite sides in the American Civil War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57512426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57512426", "title": "Lembit Arro", "text": "Lembit Arro\n\nLembit Arro (born 15 April 1930, Raikküla Parish, Estonia) is an Estonian politician and judge who was most notable for being a voter for the Estonian restoration of Independence.\n\nArro graduated in 1944 from Kabala Primary School (now Kabala Nursery-Basic School), in 1957 as a high school for the preparation for Kehtna Collective Farmers (junior agronomy) and in 1969 as an agronomist at the Estonian Agricultural Academy, now the Estonian University of Life Sciences.\n\nHe was chairman of the Kaiu collective farm, one of the most successful collective farms in Soviet Estonia, from 1959 to 1990.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1992, he was a member of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia, initially belonging to the Rural Affairs Committee, later to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Between 1992 to 1999, he was a member of the Riigikogu, first receiving 3305 votes; and being reelected in 1995 with 2,480 votes. In 1999, he ran again for the Riigikogu for the Estonian Coalition Party, but only received 293 votes, and as such, was not reelected.\n\n"}
{"id": "21596201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21596201", "title": "Lianxing Wen", "text": "Lianxing Wen\n\nLianxing Wen () (born April 1968, Shanghang, Fujian) is a Chinese seismologist, geodynamicist and planetary scientist, who has made fundamental contributions to many discoveries in the Earth's interior. His ability to formulate new theoretical methods and apply to new seismological observations have led to some of the most fundamental and exciting discoveries in seismology in recent years. His work has fundamentally changed our understanding of the structure and dynamical processes of the Earth's mantle, outer core and inner core, and the boundaries between them. He is Professor of Geophysics at the Department of Geosciences, State University of New York at Stony Brook.\n\nHe was born in China and attended University of Science and Technology of China, where he earned his bachelor's degree in Geophysics in 1988 and Caltech where he earned his Doctorate of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Geophysics in 1998.\n\nHe is a recipient of the James B. Macelwane Medal from the American Geophysical Union (AGU) and a fellow of the Union, a designation conferred upon not more than 0.1% of all AGU members in any given year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21397293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21397293", "title": "Liao Yiwu", "text": "Liao Yiwu\n\nLiao Yiwu (; also known as Lao Wei) (born 16 June 1958 in Sichuan), is a Chinese author, reporter, musician, and poet. He is a\ncritic of China's Communist regime, for which he has been imprisoned. His books, several of which are collections of interviews with ordinary people from the lower rungs of Chinese society, were published in Taiwan and Hong Kong but are banned in mainland China; some have been translated into English, French, German, Polish and Czech.\n\nLiao was born in 1958, the same year as The Great Leap Forward. During the famine of The Great Leap Forward, he suffered from edema and was close to dying. In 1966 his father was branded a counter-revolutionary during the Chinese Cultural Revolution. Liao's parents filed for divorce to protect the children. His mother was arrested for attempting to sell government issued coupons on the black market.\n\nAfter high school, Liao traveled around the country. In his spare time he read banned Western poets such as John Keats and Charles Baudelaire. He also started composing his own poems and was getting published in literary magazines. He failed the university entrance exams and began to work for a newspaper. When his poetry was noticed, the Chinese Ministry of Culture gave him a paid position as state writer.\n\nIn Spring 1989, two magazine companies took advantage of the relaxed politics and carried Liao's long poems \"The Yellow City\" and \"Idol.\" In the poems, he criticized the system, calling it paralyzed and eaten away by a collective leukemia. The poems were deemed anti-communist and he was questioned and detained and his home was searched.\n\nOn June 1989, after hearing about the Tiananmen Square protests, Liao composed a long poem entitled \"Massacre.\" Knowing that it would never be published, he made an audiotape and recited the poem by using Chinese ritualistic chanting and howling, invoking the spirits of the dead. Liao and friends made a movie, the sequel of Massacre, \"Requiem.\"\n\nHe was arrested in February 1990 as he was boarding a train. Six friends and his pregnant wife were arrested separately. Liao received a four-year sentence. He was placed on the government's permanent blacklist. While in prison, due to torture and abusive punishment, he suffered several mental breakdowns and twice attempted suicide. He was known as \"the big lunatic.\" From a fellow prisoner, an elderly monk, he learned to play the Xiao. He then began to interview other prisoners about their lives.\n\nWhen he was released from prison, his wife and their daughter left him, and his former literary friends kept their distance. He lived for a while as a homeless street musician in Chengdu, collecting stories.\n\nLiao processed the time in prison with his book \"Testimonials\". A German translation of this work was planned for 2010.\n\nIn 1998 he compiled \"The Fall of the Holy Temple\", an anthology of underground poems from the 1970s, mainly from Chinese dissidents. One of China's vice premiers called it a \"premeditated attempt to overthrow the government, and [claimed it was] supported by powerful anti-China groups.\"\n\nIn 2001 his multi-volume \"Interviews with People from the Bottom Rung of Society\" was published in Taiwan. The book consists of transcribed interviews with people on the margins of Chinese society, from \"hustlers to drifters, outlaws and street performers, the officially renegade and the physically handicapped, those who deal with human waste and with the wasting of humans, artists and shamans, crooks, even cannibals.\" \nAlthough it is currently banned in China, the book is easily found on Chinese file sharing websites. He was arrested several times for conducting \"illegal interviews\" and for exposing the dark side of the Communist Party.\n\nA French translation of some of these interviews titled \"L'Empire des bas-fonds\" appeared in 2003. An English translation of 27 of the interviews was published under the name \"The Corpse Walker\" in 2008. A German translation, \"Fräulein Hallo und der Bauernkaiser\", appeared in 2009.\n\nIn 2008 he signed the Charter 08 of his friend Liu Xiaobo, although he says of himself that he is not really interested in politics, just in his stories.\n\nIn May 2008, after the Sichuan earthquake, Liao went to the disaster region and interviewed survivors fighting corrupt officials. This material was published as \"Chronicles of the Big Earthquake\" in Hong Kong in 2009. The French translation \"Quand la terre s’est ouverte au Sichuan : Journal d’une tragédie\" appeared in 2010.\n\nAfter having been denied permission to leave the country many times, he wrote an open letter to Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel in February 2010. Later that year he was allowed to leave the country for the first time. He visited Germany accepting invitations to literary festivals in Hamburg and Berlin as well as to an event in Cologne. He held numerous readings and gave interviews. On stage, he sang songs, played the flute and drank hard liquor.\n\nOn 4 June 2010, the international literature festival berlin held a worldwide reading for Liao Yiwu in order to commemorate the massacre of Tiananmen Square, and to admonish China's human rights record.\n\nPrior to his departure from China, he lived under police surveillance with his wife in Chengdu, supporting himself with the royalties from his books published abroad.\n\nLiao Yiwu in an email dated April 1, 2011 wrote:\n\nFriends:\n\nI originally planned to leave for the United States on April 4 in order to make a publicity tour for my book God is Red which will be published in English translation by Harper Collins and for my book The Corpse Walker which was published by Random House.\n\nUnexpectedly, on March 28th, the police issued an order forbidding me to leave China.\n\nI had originally planned to travel to San Francisco, Chicago, Boston, New York, Washington and other cities and to give lectures, readings and musical performances at Harvard, Yale and other universities as well as participate in the New York Literary Festival where I was to make a speech and perform, and to have a dialogue with writers from around the world on the theme \"Contemporary Writer and Bearing Witness to History\". Now all this has been canceled.\n\nMy new book is also going to be published in Australia. My plan to travel from the United States to Australia has also been canceled.\n\nEver since my return from Germany last year, I have been closely monitored. The police have \"invited me to drink tea\" many times. My writing has been repeatedly interrupted.\n\nI have once again been forbidden to travel abroad for national security reasons.\n\nOver the last ten or so years I have strived to get the right to travel abroad 16 times. I succeeded once and failed 15 times.\n\nThank you all for your concern for me over the years.\n\nLiao Yiwu\n\nLiao arrived in Germany on July 6, 2011, having left China overland by crossing the border with Vietnam.\n\nIn 2003, he was awarded a Human Rights Watch Hellman-Hammett Grant. In 2007, he received a Freedom to Write Award from the Independent Chinese PEN Center. Authorities prevented him from attending the award ceremony in Beijing. In 2011 he was awarded the German Geschwister-Scholl-Preis and in 2012 the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade.\nIn his address at the price ceremony in the Paulskirche, Liao Yiwu described China as \"the source of global disasters\" and an \"ever-expanding garbage dump\". He concluded his speech with the wish that \"for the peaceful well-being of all humanity, this empire (China) must break apart\".\n\nBooks\n\n\nPoems\n\n\n"}
{"id": "658076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658076", "title": "List of game designers", "text": "List of game designers\n\nA game designer is a person who invents games at the conceptual level. Most game designers are \"unsung\"; for example, no one knows who invented Chess or Hearts.\n\nHowever, there are many public figures in game design, including commercial game developers and game-inventing mathematicians.\n\nSome game designers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7345995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7345995", "title": "List of people with dwarfism", "text": "List of people with dwarfism\n\nThe following is a list of people who are known for their dwarfism and who have been open about it. While these people are not known for being the \"shortest ever ____\", they have been mentioned in sources describing how the condition has affected their lives. Dwarfism is caused by several different types of medical conditions, and is typically defined as an adult with a height of or less. Records or mentions of people with dwarfism have not always been kept well, resulting in estimated heights that were taken from eyewitnesses. In some given cases the height of the person is unknown except to say that they were mentioned as a \"dwarf\" in various media. This list does not include every prominent person with dwarfism, as others are already included on other linked Wikipedia lists. \n\nThe names here include circus performers, comedians, reality TV stars, and occupations that do not primarily involve acting in films.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "523935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523935", "title": "Louis-Marie Stanislas Fréron", "text": "Louis-Marie Stanislas Fréron\n\nLouis-Marie Stanislas Fréron (17 August 1754 – 15 July 1802) was a French politician, journalist, representative to the National Assembly, and a representative on mission during the French Revolution.\n\nThe son of Elie-Catherine Fréron, he was born in Paris to a wealthy family. His father was a prominent journalist and popular opponent of the philosophes and encyclopédistes, his most notable opponent being Voltaire (who openly considered Elie his enemy), and it is surmised that his father's history of conflict with the state over freedom of the press heavily influenced Louis Fréron's political views. He attended the Lycée Louis-le-Grand, where his father held a faculty position, together with the likes of Maximilien Robespierre and Camille Desmoulins. On the death of his father, he inherited \"L'Année littéraire\", which was continued until 1795 and edited successively by the abbé Royou and Julien Louis Geoffroy.\n\nThough due to legal obligations he still had some affiliation with \"L'Année littéraire\", Fréron took up writing and editing his paper \"L'Orateur du Peuple\". In it, he wrote radical denunciations of counter-revolutionaries much like those written by Jean-Paul Marat and Camille Desmoulins, and in fact the three of them aided each other in editing their papers. His first real taste of rabble-rousing came in the form of collaboration with Desmoulins to incite the storming of the Bastille.\n\nSoon after, he was elected as representative to the Bonne-Nouvelle district of the newly formed Paris Commune, where it seems he was minimally active before returning to his role as a journalist. He acted as a collaborator for \"L’Ami des citoyens\" for a brief period before starting his own paper \"L'Orateur du Peuple\", under the pseudonym Martel, which consisted of 8 pages and was distributed every other day, with Marcel Enfantin serving as editor. Aside from his writings in his paper, he openly collaborated with Marat and agreed to fund and write half of Desmoulins paper.\n\nIn June 1790, Marcel Enfantin was arrested for \"provable conspiracy against liberty\" because the authorities believed him to be Martel. In response, Fréron wrote:\n\nAlso, Fréron's relationship with Desmoulins brought him to the cause of the Cordeliers and prompted his involvement with the attack on Tuileries palace of 1792 (the insurrection of the Paris crowds against the House of Bourbon, and their battle with the Swiss Guards).\n\nIn September, Fréron was elected to the National Convention for the \"département\" of Seine, and voted in favor of Louis XVI's execution. Fréron served as a Representative on Mission to Provence, Marseilles, and Toulon between 1793 and 1794 together with Paul Barras.\n\nHe was charged with establishing the Convention's authority in the south during the Toulon rebellion. Fréron remained infamous as an enforcer of the Reign of Terror but came into contact with Napoleon Bonaparte, still just a young artillery officer, who had been stationed there. Augustin Robespierre and Antoine Christophe Saliceti, two representatives on mission, responded favourably to Napoleon's request (bypassing his commander, Jean François Carteaux) to seize the peninsula fort from the British and install artillery on a promontory overlooking the bay in order to fire on the British fleet at anchor. An infantry attack led by Bonaparte was repelled, due chiefly to Carteaux lowering the number of men allocated to Napoleon for the attack. Fréron, despite quarrelling with Bonaparte and threatening him with execution, eventually gave him his backing against Carteaux. He subsequently attempted to curtail Napoleon's career by insuring he would not command another larger attack on the British fort that was being planned, posting him to command the reserves instead. However, as this new attack faltered, Napoleon led the reserves forward without orders and seized the British fort.\n\nNapoleon had previously introduced Fréron to his sister Pauline Bonaparte with whom he had a relationship until Pauline was married off to General Charles Leclerc in 1797.\n\nNonetheless, both he and Barras joined the Thermidorian Reaction in its clash with Robespierre; \"L'Orateur du Peuple\" became the mouthpiece of anti-Jacobins, and Fréron incited the Muscadins to attack the sans-culottes with clubs. He brought about the accusation of Antoine Fouquier-Tinville, and of Jean-Baptiste Carrier, and the arrest of the last Montagnards. Being sent by the Directory on a mission of peace to Marseilles he published in 1796 \"Mémoire historique sur la réaction royale et sur les malheurs du midi\" (\"Historical Dissertation on the Royalist Reaction and the Misfortunes of the South\").\n\nHe was elected to the Council of the Five Hundred, but not allowed to take his seat. Failing as suitor for the hand of Pauline Bonaparte, in 1801 he was sent by Napoleon, now first consul, to Saint Domingue and died there from yellow fever in 1802.\n\nGeneral Charles Leclerc, who had married Pauline Bonaparte, also received a command in Saint Domingue in 1801 (during the last stage of the Haitian Revolution), and died the same year.\n"}
{"id": "8612408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8612408", "title": "Luis E. Echávarri", "text": "Luis E. Echávarri\n\nLuis Echávarri is the former Director-General of the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA). He was born in 1949 in Bilbao, Spain. Mr. Echávarri has master's degrees from the Superior Technical School of Industrial Engineering of Bilbao University, and from the Faculty of Information Sciences of the Complutense University of Madrid. He is post-graduated from the Industrial Organization School of Madrid in Management, and is a Fellow of the College of Industrial Engineers of Madrid.\n\nIn 1975 Luis Echávarri joined Westinghouse Electric Company in Madrid, served also as a project manager of the Lemoniz, Sayago and Almaraz Nuclear Power Plant. In 1985 he became Technical Director of the Spanish Nuclear Safety Council (CSN), and in 1987 he was named Commissioner of the CSN. In 1995-1997 he held post of Director-General of the Spanish Nuclear Industry Forum.\n\nIn 1997 Luis Echávarri was appointed Director-General of NEA. He also represents the NEA on the Governing Board of the International Energy Agency (IEA), and he is a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency's International Nuclear Safety Advisory Group.\n\nIn 2009, Luis Echávarri run for the post of Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, but was not elected.\n"}
{"id": "13113297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13113297", "title": "Melvin Johnson", "text": "Melvin Johnson\n\nMelvin Maynard Johnson Jr. (August 1909 – January 9, 1965) or Maynard Johnson (as he was nicknamed) was an American designer of firearms, lawyer, and US Marine Corps officer. \n\nBorn into an affluent Boston, Massachusetts family, he was commissioned into the Marine Corps Reserve in 1933 as a Second Lieutenant and completed Harvard Law School in 1934. Johnson designed a recoil-operated rifle (M1941 Johnson rifle) while serving for the Marines as an observer at the Army's Springfield Armory in 1935. Johnson received four U.S. patents on various design features. He also designed the Johnson Light Machine Gun, derived from the M1941 rifle, which was used in limited numbers during World War II and the M1947 Johnson auto carbine, also derived from the M1941 rifle and M1941 light machine gun.\n\nIn 1942, he co-authored \"Weapons for the Future\", a book in The Infantry Journal series. Charles T. Haven of the Army Ordnance Corps was the other contributor. Johnson worked tirelessly to promote his rifle and machine gun throughout the war.\n\nJohnson transferred to the Army Ordnance Corps Reserve from the Marine Corps Reserve in 1949 and rose to the rank of Colonel. In 1949, Winchester bought the Johnson Automatics corporation and employed Johnson for a short period. While at Winchester, Johnson was employed alongside \"Carbine\" Williams though it is unknown if they worked on the same projects. \n\nHe was later appointed as weapons consultant to the Secretary of Defense in 1951.\n\nJohnson's patents were used by Armalite on the AR-10, AR-15, and later M16 rifles. Johnson was hired by Armalite as a consultant to promote their rifle incorporating his bolt design. Later, Johnson worked to improve the M1 carbine eventually developing the 5.7mm Spitfire cartridge in 1963 and starting Johnson Arms, Inc. The M1 Carbine can be converted to use 5.7mm Spitfire by replacing the barrel with modification of the feed ramp. \n\nWhile on a business trip to New York City in 1965, Johnson died of a heart attack. He is buried in Mt. Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nJohnson's practice was to give all of his weapons a \"pet\" nicknames.\n\n"}
{"id": "37154262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37154262", "title": "Nikolai Sukhanov", "text": "Nikolai Sukhanov\n\nNikolai Nikolaevich Sukhanov (; 10 December 188229 June 1940) was a Russian Menshevik Internationalist and chronicler of the Russian Revolution.\n\nNikolai Sukhanov - a pseudonym, his real name was Nikolai Himmer - was born in Moscow. His father, from German descent, was a railway employee, his mother a midwife. His parents split after his birth, and his mother was exiled for seven years in a sensational court case to Siberia for bigamy; in 1898 commuted into one year prison. Himmer gave private lessons while he was at high school. Like his grandmother he was captivated by Tolstoy and Tolstoyanism. In 1900/1902 he traveled through Russia, and met with several revolutionaries (e.g. Lenin, Trotsky, Martov, and Chernov) in Paris. In 1903 he began to study Philology and Philosophy in Moscow, and joined the Socialist Revolutionary Party. In those days Sukhanov was busy with propaganda on agrarian reform and lecturing. Following his arrest in May 1904 for being in possession of illegal literature, he was given a 18-month sentence in the Taganka Prison. After he was liberated by the crowd in October 1905 he took part in the uprising in Moscow in December. Sukhanov became a contributor to \"Russkoe Bogatstvo\" (Russian Wealth) and published (legally) two books on agricultural reform. He was involved in the Socialist Revolutionary Party and argued with the leaders how to explain the Narodniks and Marxism in the right way. He was rearrested in 1911 and sentenced to exile in Archangelsk. (In the meantime his wife left him and moved to Poland with her two sons. Sukhanov remarried Galina Flaksermann) Following his release early March, and having benefited of the amnesty during the festivities of Romanov Tercentenary, he returned to St. Petersburg, where he became an editor of the radical journal \"Sovremennik\"' (Contemporary) and \"Letopis\" (Chronicle). published by Maxim Gorky. He worked under his own name for the Ministry of Agriculture. As an internationalist he opposed Russia going into war with Germany and Austria.\n\nDuring the February Revolution in 1917 Sukhanov was one of the founding members of the Executive Committee of the Petrograd Soviet. An advocate of peace negotiations, Sukhanov opposed the aggressive war policies of Alexander Kerensky and Guchkov, members of the Russian Provisional Government. Sukhanov had been friendly with Anatoly Lunacharsky, but did not follow the latter when he joined the Bolsheviks. He became an editor of \"Novaya Zhizn\". \n\nBetween 1919 and 1921 Sukhanov wrote a seven-volume memoir of the Russian Revolution of 1917. It was first published in Berlin, but the use of the books (written in Russian) was suppressed under Stalin in the 30's. While working at the Agrarian Institute of the Communist Academy, he opposed Stalin's extreme measures concerning the collectivization and industrialization, until his arrest in July 1930. He sentenced at the 1931 Menshevik Trial, an early show trial by Stalin. Sukhanov was exiled to Tobolsk with a 10 year prison sentence. In 1937 he was accused of being a German spy and engaging in anti-Soviet agitation. Sukhanov was executed on Stalin's orders on June 29, 1940.\n\nIn 1967, a German translation appeared of the first volume. In 1984 a one-volume abridged version was published in English, edited by Joel Carmichael. \n\nHis works were under lock and key until 1991 when for the first time a reprint was published in Russia. In 1992, a special rehabilitation committee declared that all accusations against him had been baseless.\n\n"}
{"id": "8777612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8777612", "title": "Nuruddin ar-Raniri", "text": "Nuruddin ar-Raniri\n\nNuruddin ibn Ali ar-Raniri () (also transliterated Nur ud-Din ar-Raniri / Randeri, died 1658) was an Islamic mystic and scholar from Rander in Surat province of Gujarat, in India, who worked for several years in the court of the sultan of Aceh in what is now Indonesia. He was the most prolific of the authors of the Acehnese court, and helped contribute to its international reputation as a center of scholarship. His work was considered the oldest Muslim scholarship of South east Asia.\n\nShaikh Randeri (Ar-Raniri) (Shaikh Nur ad-Deen Muhammad b.Ali b.Hasanji al-Hamid as-Shafi'i al-Ashari al-'Aydarusi ar-Randeri) was born into a Gujarati Muslim family of Hadhrami lineage, that was descended from Quraysh Arabian nobility. He arrived in Aceh in 1637 and enjoyed the patronage of Iskandar Thani (reigned 1636-1641). He denounced his predecessors at the Acehnese court, Hamzah Pansuri and Syamsuddin of Pasai, for what he saw as their heresy in violation of the Islamic belief that God was unchanged by his creation. He ordered their books to be burned, while he wrote numerous works setting what he insisted were orthodox religious standards.\n\nHis most notable work was the Bustan as-Salatin (\"The Garden of Kings\"), begun in 1638 and written in Malay based on Arabic sources. It is a seven-volume encyclopedic work, covering the history of the world from the creation through the period of prophets of Islam and the Muslim kings of the Middle East and the Malay area, as well as several sciences.\n\nAr-Raniri's works were translated into other Indonesian languages, and had considerable influence in Malay literature. He lost favour with the court of Iskandar Thani's successor, his widow Taj ul-Alam, and left Aceh in 1644, and died in India in 1658.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2236456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236456", "title": "Patrick Fugit", "text": "Patrick Fugit\n\nPatrick Raymond Fugit (; born October 27, 1982) is an American actor, known for his roles in the films \"Almost Famous\" (2000), \"White Oleander\" (2002), \"Saved!\" (2004) and \"\" (2007). , he has starred in the Cinemax series \"Outcast\".\n\nFugit was born in Salt Lake City, Utah. His mother, Jan Clark-Fugit, is a dance teacher, and his father, Bruce, is an electrical engineer. Fugit is the oldest of three children, he has a younger sister and a younger brother. Fugit attended East High School, where he was diagnosed with ADHD. Fugit appeared in a school production of \"The Twelve Dancing Princesses\" as the shoemaker, while he was at grade seven. He has been a skateboarder since he was fifteen.\n\nFugit and his best friend, David Fetzer, formed a folk/rock band \"Mushman\", in which Fugit plays the guitar and sometimes sings. Fugit studies flamenco guitar, which he played on the Cavedoll song \"MAYDAY\" and his song \"Brennan's Theme\" for the ending scene in \"\". Fugit played a young rock-fan-turned-reporter in Cameron Crowe's \"Almost Famous\" and claimed that his knowledge of 1970s rock music was nil (\"I actually thought Led Zeppelin was one person\"). Fugit played a sweetly geeky, aspiring comic book artist in \"White Oleander\" (2002) and a naive drug addict in the indie dark comedy \"Spun\" (2003). His next film, \"Saved!\" (2004), was a satirical look at the religious right in high school. Fugit's character was originally a surfer, but it changed into a skateboarder due to his skateboarding experience. Fugit starred in \"The Amateurs\" and played Evra Von in \"\" (2009). In 2016, he joined the cast of Cinemax's television series \"Outcast\".\n"}
{"id": "49131162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49131162", "title": "Richard Holt Locke", "text": "Richard Holt Locke\n\nRichard Holt Locke (June 11, 1941 – September 25, 1996) was an actor in gay erotic films of the 1970s and 1980s, who went to become an AIDS educator and activist. He died of AIDS complications on September 25, 1996, at UC Davis Medical near Sacramento, California.\n\nBorn on June 11, 1941, in East Oakland, California, Locke graduated from Pleasant Hill High School at eighteen, and spent the next three years in the army stationed in Germany as a tank mechanic. Returning to California, he earned a degree at Chico State University.\n\nLocke's first gay film was \"Dreamer\" for the director Jim West in 1975. In a December 1992 interview for \"Manshots\", recalling how he was asked to pick a screen pseudonym for billing, Locke said, \"They asked me, 'What name do you want?, 'and I said, ‘My name.‘ I'm very proud of my work and everything I do. An artist signs his name to the canvas, and I sign my name.\"\n\nTall, well built, and ruggedly handsome, Locke became a popular film star before he even realized it, partly because he worked for auteur directors who marketed their movies as if they were mainstream Hollywood productions.\n\n\nBeginning in 1977, apart from his screen work, Locke put together a stage show and made personal appearances at gay theaters throughout the US.\n\nDiagnosed HIV positive in 1983, Locke retired from stage and screen and became an activist against the virus. He took education at the American Red Cross and the Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York City, then used his name and celebrity to make personal appearances at sensible sex seminars around the country. Eventually, Locke moved back to Desert Hot Springs near Palm Springs, California. In 1975 he had settled on an old soldier settlement property and built a geodesic domed home, powered by electricity from his own windmill. He did volunteer work from the Desert AIDS Project and gave weekly messages at the Villa Caprice Hotel in nearby Cathedral City. When his health began failing in February 1996, he moved to an apartment in Sacramento to be close to his family and the medical facilities at UC-Davis. Locke was inducted into the Hall of Fame at the 1994 Gay Erotic Video Awards in Los Angeles. He returned to the screen in 1995 to play a non-sexual role in Jerry Douglas' \"The Diamond Stud\", which was his last appearance. He also wrote the books \"Locked Out, In The Heat Of Passion\", was working on two unfinished autobiographies, \"Living\" and \"Dying\". His one-act play, \"Loving\", was filmed in 1995 in Toronto for future release. Services were held on September 29, 1996, in Sacramento, with interment at Benicia Cemetery outside Oakland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34433560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34433560", "title": "Rom Landau", "text": "Rom Landau\n\nRomauld Landau (1899–1974) was born in Poland, but later became a British citizen whilst serving as a volunteer in the Royal Air Force during the Second World War. He was a sculptor, author, educator, Foreign Service officer, and a specialist on Arab and Islamic culture. His particular area of interest was Morocco. He was also an art critic and book reviewer for several newspapers and periodicals, including \"The Spectator\".\n\nBorn of Polish-German parents, Landau studied philosophy, art, and religion at various European schools and universities—notably in Germany—and spent his early years travelling and working as a sculptor. In 1922, whilst living in Berlin, he became the pupil of Georg Kolbe, then Germany's leading sculptor. During the late 1920s and early 1930s Landau established a minor reputation in Europe as a writer. His themes were art history, Polish biography (notably, Ignacy Jan Paderewski and Józef Klemens Piłsudski), and comparative religion. Landau's best known book from these years was \"God is My Adventure\" (1935).\n\nRom Landau first visited Morocco in 1924. From that time he became a student of Islamic culture. Landau taught himself Arabic and spent as much time as he could afford living and travelling in North Africa and the Middle East. In 1937 he visited King Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah I of Jordan, and other secular and religious leaders of the Middle East. Landau subsequently published a book, \"Arm the Apostles\" (1938), about his trip in which he advocates arming the Arabs so that they might aid the British and French in the coming war with Nazi Germany.\n\nLandau became a British citizen and served as a volunteer in the Royal Air Force (1939–41), and subsequently a member of the Arab Committee of the Intelligence Department of the British Foreign Office (1941–45). During this period he published (with A. J. Arberry) the standard work \"Islam Today\" (1943). Following the war, Landau returned to North Africa where he established close personal ties with Sultan Mohammed V of Morocco, and other Arab leaders of liberation movements. Landau discreetly supported these groups although his interest in the cause of Arab independence would seem to have been motivated more by a traditionalist's wish to slow the modernisation and Europeanization of the region than to improve the living standards of the common people.\n\nBeginning in 1948 Rom Landau devoted his writing skills exclusively to Morocco and Moroccan affairs. Over the subsequent five-year period Landau published \"Invitation to Morocco\" (1950); \"Moroccan Journal\" (1951); \"The Beauty of Morocco\" (1951); \"The Sultan of Morocco\" (1951); \"Morocco\" (for the Carnegle Endowment for International Peace, 1952); \"Portrait of Tangier\" (1952); and \"France and the Arabs\" (1953). Later he would publish a historical study \"The Moroccan Drama 1900–1955\" (1956), biographies of King Mohammed V (1957) and King Hassan II (1962), as well as a \"History of Morocco in the Twentieth Century\" (1963). Landau also wrote numerous essays and book reviews for \"The Reporter\", the \"New Statesman\", \"The Spectator\", and other British and American periodicals of the day.\n\nFollowing a lecture tour to the United States (1952–53) Landau settled in San Francisco where he was employed by Frederic Spiegelberg's American Academy of Asian Studies, headed for a period by instructor Alan Watts. The Academy soon affiliated with the University of the Pacific, Stockton, CA (1954), and Landau subsequently became a professor of Islamic Studies at the university (1956–68). In 1962–63 he supervised the Peace Corps training program that prepared volunteers for service in Morocco. Following his retirement (1968), Landau settled in Marrakech, where he lived until his death.\n\nIn his earlier career Landau wrote \"God is My Adventure\" (1935), a best-selling book in which he recounted his various contacts with leading figures and unusual persons of philosophical, religious, and mystical fame, such as Hermann Graf Keyserling, Jiddu Krishnamurti, Frank Buchman, Rudolf Steiner, G I Gurdjieff, P D Ouspensky, Meher Baba, and others.\n\nJames Webb relates an encounter that Landau had with Gurdjieff in the latter's New York hotel room in the early thirties while Landau was writing \"God is my Adventure.\" \"The interview went badly. Landau was discomposed by having unwanted cigarettes pressed upon him, and Gurdjieff did not intend to answer his questions. Even worse, the journalist appeared to be falling under some 'hypnotic influence' …\" According to Whitall Perry, \"Explaining that he himself is not at all telepathic, given to mediumship, or subject to hypnotism, Landau says … In a few seconds he felt his body from the waist down penetrated with a growing weakness enough to render him incapable of leaving his chair had he tried. Only by mustering all his concentration in talk with the young attendant did he finally manage to extricate himself … Upon departing he was presented by Gurdjieff with a copy of his \"Herald of Coming Good\"; it was bound in imitation suède, but of a grain so abrasive it made the teeth grind at the very touch. Landau realized that this was all part of an effect deliberately calculated by the author—whose book reads, moreover, as though conceived in clouds of Armagnac (the opening sentence alone, by Landau's count, contains not less than two hundred and eighty-four words).\" Referring to the event, the Gurdjieffian, James Moore, describes Landau as \"The lightweight sculptor and writer … greedy for copy, primed with sensational hearsay stories …\" Before meeting Gurdjieff, Landau recounts, “One of his pupils said to me one day: ‘I imagine that Rasputin must have been like Gurdjieff: mysterious, domineering, attractive and frightening at the same time; full of overabundant vitality and of strange knowledge, inaccessible to other men.’ His hypnotic powers were never disputed, yet all his external methods constituted but an insignificant part of his far wider knowledge.”\n\nThere are three major sources for further research: the Rom Landau Papers, the Rom Landau Collection, and the Rom Landau Middle East Collection.\n\nPapers of the author are held at the Special Collections Research Center, Syracuse University Library, and divided into six series. Biographical data and public recognition comprises short excerpts of biographical information, instances where Landau was mentioned in the press, etc. Correspondence contains business (1927–1974), personal (1972–1974) and legal material. Writings and art consists of Landau's papers, manuscripts, lectures, notes, and speeches on the Middle East, political intelligence, religion, and other topics; it also includes a small selection of Landau's sculpture and a copy of his book, \"God is My Adventure\". Printed material contains brochures for the University of Pacific. Memorabilia comprises personal items such as Moroccan art, copies of Landau's books, a passport, photographs, scrapbooks, silverware, and other miscellaneous items. Recordings contains reel-to-reel audio recordings made by Landau of the songs, music and dance of various countries in the Middle East, and some of his radio interviews, lectures and other speaking engagements, along with one apparently professional production, \"King Mohammed V\" by Leo Diner Films. There are also eight home-made recordings of opera singers and performances. Tapes relating to his Islamic studies are numbered and listed individually; opera recordings are not.\n\nThe Collection primarily contains correspondence laid in books of Landau's, which were purchased by the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1967. There are three series in the collection: Correspondence to Rom Landau, Correspondence to \"The Spectator\", and Ephemera. The correspondence includes letters from T. S. Eliot, E. M. Forster, George Bernard Shaw, and Virginia Woolf.\n\nThis Collection consists chiefly of Rom Landau's personal library and other materials, notably clippings, periodicals and government documents that he used in teaching coursework in Islamic Studies at the University of the Pacific. The primary focus of these materials is Morocco. However, the collection also contains considerable material on the other nations of French North Africa, Algeria and Tunisia, along with a smaller body of books, pamphlets, and documents on other Islamic nations and on Israel/Palestine. The time period of greatest emphasis is the twenty-five years immediately following World War II (1945–1970). The Collection is arranged in four series: Manuscript Materials; Printed Matter on Morocco; Printed Matter on Muslim Lands; and Materials Unrelated to Islam and the Middle East.\n\n"}
{"id": "756370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756370", "title": "Rose Mary Woods", "text": "Rose Mary Woods\n\nRose Mary Woods (December 26, 1917 – January 22, 2005) was Richard Nixon's secretary from his days in Congress in 1951, through the end of his political career. Before H. R. Haldeman and John Ehrlichman became the operators of Nixon's presidential campaign, Woods was Nixon's gatekeeper.\n\nRose Mary Woods was born in northeastern Ohio in the small pottery town of Sebring on December 26, 1917. Her brother was Joseph I. Woods, a Cook County Sheriff, and longtime member of the Cook County, Illinois Board.\n\nFollowing graduation from McKinley High School, she went to work for Royal China, Inc., the city's largest employer. Woods had been engaged to marry, but her fiancé died during World War II. To escape all the memories of her hometown, she moved to Washington, D.C., in 1943, working in a variety of federal offices until she met Nixon while she was a secretary to the Select House Committee on Foreign Aid. Impressed by his neatness and efficiency, she accepted his job offer in 1951.\n\nShe developed a very close relationship with the Nixon family, especially First Lady Pat Nixon.\n\nWoods was President Nixon's personal secretary, the same position she held from the time he hired her until the end of his lengthy political career.\n\nFiercely loyal to Nixon, Woods claimed responsibility in a 1974 grand jury testimony for inadvertently erasing up to five minutes of the 18 minute gap in a June 20, 1972, audio tape. Her demonstration of how this might have occurred—which depended upon her stretching to simultaneously press controls several feet apart (what the press dubbed the \"Rose Mary Stretch\")—was met with skepticism from those who believed the erasures, from whatever source, to be deliberate. The contents of the gap remain a mystery.\n\nShe accompanied Nixon to California for a time following his resignation. Later, she returned to Washington and worked as a secretary to a Republican member of Congress on Capitol Hill.\n\nWoods died on January 23, 2005, at McCrea Manor, a nursing home in Alliance, Ohio. A memorial service was held at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "62355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62355", "title": "Rupert Brooke", "text": "Rupert Brooke\n\nRupert Chawner Brooke (middle name sometimes given as \"Chaucer;\" 3 August 1887 – 23 April 1915) was an English poet known for his idealistic war sonnets written during the First World War, especially \"The Soldier.” He was also known for his boyish good looks, which were said to have prompted the Irish poet W. B. Yeats to describe him as \"the handsomest young man in England.”\n\nBrooke was born at 5 Hillmorton Road, Rugby, Warwickshire, He was the third of four children of William Parker \"Willie\" Brooke, a schoolmaster (teacher), and Ruth Mary Brooke, née Cotterill, a school matron. Both parents were working at Fettes College in Edinburgh when they met. They married on 18 December 1879. William Parker Brooke had to resign after the couple wed as there was no accommodation there for married masters. The couple then moved to Rugby in Warwickshire where Rupert's father became Master of School Field House at Rugby School a month later. His eldest brother was Richard England \"Dick\" Brooke (1881–1907), his sister Edith Marjorie Brooke was born in 1885 and died the following year, and his youngest brother was William Alfred Cotterill \"Podge\" Brooke (1891–1915).\n\nRupert Brooke attended preparatory (prep) school locally at Hillbrow, and then went on to Rugby School. In 1905, he became friends with St. John Lucas, who thereafter became something of a mentor to him.\n\nWhile travelling in Europe he prepared a thesis, entitled \"John Webster and the Elizabethan Drama\", which won him a scholarship to King's College, Cambridge. There he became a member of the Apostles, was elected as President of the Fabian Society, helped found the Marlowe Society drama club and acted, including the Greek Play. The friendships he made at school and university set the course for his adult life, and many of the people he met - including for example George Mallory - fell under his spell. Virginia Woolf boasted to Vita Sackville-West of once going skinny-dipping with Brooke in a moonlit pool when they were in Cambridge together. In 1907, his eldest brother Dick died of pneumonia at age 26. Rupert planned to put his studies on hold to help his parents cope with the loss of his brother, but they insisted he return to school.\n\nBrooke made friends among the Bloomsbury group of writers, some of whom admired his talent while others were more impressed by his good looks. He also belonged to another literary group known as the Georgian Poets and was one of the most important of the Dymock poets, associated with the Gloucestershire village of Dymock where he spent some time before the war. He also lived in the Old Vicarage, Grantchester, which stimulated one of his best-known poems, named after the house, written with homesickness while in Berlin in 1912.\n\nBrooke suffered a severe emotional crisis in 1912, resulting in the breakdown of his long relationship with Ka Cox (Katherine Laird Cox). Brooke's paranoia that Lytton Strachey had schemed to destroy his relationship with Cox by encouraging her to see Henry Lamb precipitated his break with his Bloomsbury group friends and played a part in his nervous collapse and subsequent rehabilitation trips to Germany.\n\nAs part of his recuperation, Brooke toured the United States and Canada to write travel diaries for the \"Westminster Gazette\". He took the long way home, sailing across the Pacific and staying some months in the South Seas. Much later it was revealed that he may have fathered a daughter with a Tahitian woman named Taatamata with whom he seems to have enjoyed his most complete emotional relationship. Many more people were in love with him. Brooke was romantically involved with the artist Phyllis Gardner and the actress Cathleen Nesbitt, and was once engaged to Noël Olivier, whom he met, when she was aged 15, at the progressive Bedales School.\n\nBrooke enlisted at the outbreak of war in August 1914. He came to public attention as a war poet early the following year, when \"The Times Literary Supplement\" published two sonnets (\"IV: The Dead\" and \"V: The Soldier\") on 11 March; the latter was then read from the pulpit of St Paul's Cathedral on Easter Sunday (4 April). Brooke's most famous collection of poetry, containing all five sonnets, \"1914 & Other Poems\", was first published in May 1915 and, in testament to his popularity, ran to 11 further impressions that year and by June 1918 had reached its 24th impression; a process undoubtedly fuelled through posthumous interest.\n\nBrooke's accomplished poetry gained many enthusiasts and followers, and he was taken up by Edward Marsh, who brought him to the attention of Winston Churchill, then First Lord of the Admiralty. Brooke was commissioned into the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve as a temporary Sub-Lieutenant shortly after his 27th birthday and took part in the Royal Naval Division's Antwerp expedition in October 1914.\n\nBrooke sailed with the British Mediterranean Expeditionary Force on 28 February 1915 but developed sepsis from an infected mosquito bite. He died at 4:46 pm on 23 April 1915, on the French hospital ship, the \"Duguay-Trouin\", moored in a bay off the Greek island of Skyros in the Aegean Sea, while on his way to the landing at Gallipoli. As the expeditionary force had orders to depart immediately, Brooke was buried at 11 pm in an olive grove on Skyros. The site was chosen by his close friend, William Denis Browne, who wrote of Brooke's death:\n\nAnother friend and war poet, Patrick Shaw-Stewart, assisted at his hurried funeral. His grave remains there still, with monument erected by his friend Stanley Casson, poet and archaeologist, who in 1921 published \"Rupert Brooke and Skyros\", a \"quiet essay\", illustrated with woodcuts by Phyllis Gardner. \n\nOn 11 November 1985, Brooke was among 16 First World War poets commemorated on a slate monument unveiled in Poets' Corner in Westminster Abbey. The inscription on the stone was written by a fellow war poet, Wilfred Owen. It reads: \"My subject is War, and the pity of War. The Poetry is in the pity.\"\n\nThe wooden cross that marked Brooke's grave on Skyros, which was painted and carved with his name, was removed when a permanent memorial was made there. His mother, Mary Ruth Brooke, had the cross brought to Rugby, to the family plot at Clifton Road Cemetery. Because of erosion in the open air, it was removed from the cemetery in 2008, and replaced by a more permanent marker. The Skyros cross is now at Rugby School with the memorials of other old Rugbeians.\n\nBrooke's surviving brother, William Alfred Cotterill Brooke, fell in action on the Western Front on 14 June 1915 as a subaltern with the 1/8th (City of London) of the London Regiment (Post Office Rifles), at the age of 24 years. He had been in France on active service for nineteen days before meeting his death. His body was buried in Fosse 7 Military Cemetery (Quality Street), Mazingarbe.\n\nThe first stanza of \"The Dead\" is inscribed onto the base of the Royal Naval Division War Memorial in London.\n\nAmerican adventurer Richard Halliburton made preparations for writing a biography of Brooke, meeting his mother and others who had known the poet, and corresponding widely and collecting copious notes, but he died before writing the manuscript. Halliburton's notes were used by Arthur Springer to write \"Red Wine of Youth—A Biography of Rupert Brooke\" (New York: Bobbs-Merrill, 1952).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52213733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52213733", "title": "Sadhan Basu", "text": "Sadhan Basu\n\nSadhan Basu FNA, FASc, FRSC (2 January 1922 – 5 October 1992) was an Indian physical chemist, academic and the Palit Professor of Chemistry at the University of Calcutta from 1964 to 1985. He was known for his elucidation of the Quantum Mechanical Model of Robert S. Mulliken and his article, \"Degree of Polymerization and Chain Transfer in Methyl Methacrylate\", co-authored by Jyotirindra Nath Sen and Santi R. Palit was the first published Indian article on polymer chemistry. He was an elected fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, Chemical Society of France, Indian Chemical Society, Indian National Science Academy and the Indian Academy of Sciences. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the apex agency of the Government of India for scientific research, awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, one of the highest Indian science awards, in 1962, for his contributions to chemical sciences.\n\nBasu was born on 2 January 1922 in Kolkata (then Calcutta), to Jyotish Chandra Basu and Sarajubala. Educated in the city, he graduated with a B.Sc. from the University of Calcutta in 1942, obtaining an M.Sc. from the same institution in 1944. He then conducted research into the properties of shellac at the Indian Lac Research Institute (now the Indian Institute of Natural Resins and Gums) under the supervision of noted chemist Prafulla Kumar Bose (1898-1983), for which he earned a D.Sc. from Calcutta University in 1948. In 1948, Basu joined the faculty of the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, where he conducted pioneering research on chain transfer in radical polymerisation and established a standard procedure for estimating the molecular weight of polymers. From 1951 to 1953, he was a postdoctoral Fulbright fellow in chemistry at Indiana University Bloomington, where he developed an interest in the emerging field of quantum chemistry; upon returning to India, he published six papers on free electron molecular orbital calculations.\n\nIn 1954, Basu joined the faculty of the University of Calcutta as a reader; he would remain at the university for the next three decades. One of the pioneers of polymer chemistry in India, his studies were primarily in the fields of charge transfer interactions, ligand field spectra, hydrogen bonding, quantum chemistry and photochemistry. Focusing on the detection, and analysis of charge transfer band of molecular complexes and through experimental assignment of its vibrational structure, he supported the quantum mechanical model of the complexes originally propounded by Robert S. Mulliken, the winner of 1966 Nobel Prize for Chemistry. In order to determine the -NH2 group in nylon, he developed a methodology which has since been accepted as a standard industrial procedure. He calculated the transition energies and oscillator strengths of aromatic polyhydrocarbons using the gas model prescribed by Shin'ichirō Tomonaga in 1950, demonstrated that extended catacondensed planar structures could be derived only by using 3-4-6 membered rings and employing Hartree-Fock-Bogolyubov, illustrated that, unlike triplet transitions, \"the longest wavelength singlet transitions in linear polyenes converge to a limit\". Basu's researches were published in a number of articles and the article, \"Degree of Polymerization and Chain Transfer in Methyl Methacrylate\", he and his co-authors, J. N. Sen and S. R. Palit, published in 1950 was the first Indian article on polymer chemistry. He was associated with International Journal of Quantum Chemistry, the Indian Journal of Chemistry and the Proceedings of the Proceedings of Indian National Science Academy as their associate editor and mentored a number of students in their doctoral researches.\n\nDuring 1961-62, Basu was a visiting professor at Indiana University Bloomington and was subsequently (1962–63) a visiting professor in the quantum chemistry group at the University of Uppsala. Following his return to India, Basu was appointed to the Palit Professorship of Chemistry at the University College of Science, Technology & Agriculture in 1964, the chair of which he held until his superannuation and retirement. He also served as head of the university's chemistry department from 1978 to 1980. In 1981, he was appointed the director of the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, but relinquished the post in 1982 due to ill health. He also served the Indian National Science Academy council during 1982-84 as a member. Basu retired from the University of Calcutta in 1985, and died on 5 October 1992, at the age of 70. He was survived by his wife, Rama Basu, who was also a theoretical chemist, and their son and daughter. His scientific contributions have been documented in an article, \"Sadhan Basu — a physical chemist extraordinaire\", published in Resonance journal in 2013.\n\nThe Indian National Science Academy elected Basu as a fellow in 1962 and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, one of the highest Indian science awards, in 1965. A UGC National Professor during 1972–73, he became an elected fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences in 1975 and was a recipient of the Acharya J. C. Ghosh Gold Medal of Indian Chemical Society (1984) and the C. V. Raman Birth Centenary Commemoration Medal of the Indian Science Congress Association (1988). In 1957, he was appointed a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry (FRIC), which merged with the Chemical Society in 1980 to become the Royal Society for Chemistry. He was also a fellow of the Indian Chemical Society and the Society of Physical Chemistry of France. The Indian Academy of Sciences issued a festschrift, \"Dedicated to Prof. Sadhan Basu on the occasion of his sixtyfifth birthday\", on him in 1986 on his 65th birth anniversary and the contributors included Jack Simons, Debashis Mukherjee, Werner Kutzelnigg and George G. Hall among others. The Indian National Science Academy has instituted an annual oration, \"Professor Sadhan Basu Memorial Lecture\" in his honor and the University of Kolkata recognizes excellence in research in chemistry each year by an annual award, \"Professor Sadhan Basu Memorial Award\".\n"}
{"id": "57226025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57226025", "title": "Sun Jian (politician)", "text": "Sun Jian (politician)\n\nSun Jian (; 1936 – November 1997) was a Chinese factory worker who was elevated to the position of Vice Premier in 1975, during the Cultural Revolution. After the end of the Cultural Revolution, he was declared a follower of the radical Gang of Four and was dismissed from the government in 1978. He returned to his former life as a factory worker in Tianjin and later became a company manager.\n\nSun Jian was born 1936 in rural Dingxing County, Hebei Province. In 1951, he became a worker at the Tianjin Internal Combustion Engine Factory. Starting at the bottom, he was known as a hard worker and rose through the ranks, eventually becoming the party secretary of the factory.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, he was elevated to the Tianjin Municipal Bureau of Machinery to serve as vice-director of its Revolutionary Committee in charge of production, and then promoted to (deputy) party secretary of Tianjin in charge of industry.\n\nAt the 4th National People's Congress in January 1975, Sun, aged 39, was elected as a Vice Premier of the State Council, together with fellow model worker Wu Guixian and peasant leader Chen Yonggui. Sun was made responsible for industrial production, and also became an alternate member of the 10th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.\n\nThe Cultural Revolution ended in 1976 following Mao Zedong's death, and the radical Gang of Four was arrested. Sun stayed in his position for two more years, but was declared a follower of the Gang of Four and purged in the spring of 1978.\n\nSun was sent back to Tianjin, where he underwent \"supervised reformation\" at the Tianjin Machinery Factory. When his wife Pang Xiuting (庞秀婷) was allowed to visit him, he promised her that he would not kill himself. He returned to his old life as a factory worker, although he was now a centre of attention for being a former vice-premier. In 1985, the national government gave permission for his promotion to a middle-management position, and Sun was put in charge of a US$5 million German investment in a motorcycle production line in Tianjin. He was later appointed as manager of a state-owned machinery company in the Tianjin Economic-Technological Development Area (TEDA).\n\nIn November 1997, Sun died from lung cancer in Tianjin, at the age of 61.\n"}
{"id": "47729021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47729021", "title": "Tate murders", "text": "Tate murders\n\nThe Tate murders were a series of killings conducted by members of the Manson Family on August 8–9, 1969, which claimed the lives of five people. Four members of the Family invaded the home of married celebrity couple, actress Sharon Tate and director Roman Polanski at 10050 Cielo Drive in Los Angeles. They murdered Tate (who was eight and a half months pregnant), along with three friends who were visiting at the time, and an 18-year-old visitor, who was slain as he was departing the home. Polanski was not present on the night of the murders as he was working on a film in Europe.\n\nThe murders were carried out by Tex Watson under the direction of Charles Manson. Watson drove, with Susan Atkins, Linda Kasabian, and Patricia Krenwinkel, from Spahn Ranch to the residence on Cielo Drive. Manson, a would-be musician, had previously attempted to enter into a recording contract with record producer Terry Melcher, who was a previous renter of the house along with musician Mark Lindsay and Melcher's then-girlfriend, actress Candice Bergen. Melcher had snubbed Manson, leaving him disgruntled.\n\nOn the night of August 8, 1969, Tex Watson took Susan Atkins, Linda Kasabian, and Patricia Krenwinkel to \"that house where Melcher used to live\" and told them to \"totally destroy everyone in [it], as gruesome as you can\". Manson had told the women to do as Watson would instruct them. Krenwinkel was one of the early Family members and had allegedly been picked up by Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys while hitchhiking. The occupants of the house at 10050 Cielo Drive that evening, all of whom were strangers to the Manson followers, were movie actress and fashion model Sharon Tate, wife of film director Roman Polanski, who was eight and a half months pregnant; her friend and former lover Jay Sebring, a noted hairstylist; Polanski's friend and aspiring screenwriter Wojciech Frykowski; and Frykowski's lover Abigail Folger, heiress to the Folger coffee fortune, and daughter of Peter Folger. Polanski was in Europe working on a film project; Tate had accompanied him, but returned home three weeks earlier. Music producer Quincy Jones, a friend of Sebring, had planned to join him that evening, but didn't go.\n\nWhen the murderers arrived at the entrance to the Cielo Drive property, Watson, who had been to the house on at least one other occasion, climbed a telephone pole near the entrance gate and cut the phone line to prevent telephone access to the house. At that point it was after midnight, August 9, 1969.\n\nThe group backed their car to the bottom of the hill that led to the estate, parked, and walked back up to the house. Thinking the gate might be electrified or rigged with an alarm, they climbed a brushy embankment to the right of the gate and dropped onto the grounds.\n\nJust then, headlights approached them from farther within the angled property. Watson ordered the women to lie in the bushes. He then stepped out and ordered the approaching driver to halt. 18-year-old student Steven Parent had been visiting the property's caretaker, William Garretson, who lived in the property's guest house. As Watson leveled a 22-caliber revolver at Parent, the frightened youth begged Watson not to hurt him, claiming that he wouldn't say anything. Watson first lunged at Parent with a knife, giving him a defensive slash wound on the palm of his hand (severing tendons and tearing the boy's watch off his wrist), then shot him four times in the chest and abdomen, killing him. Watson then ordered the women to help push the car further up the driveway.\n\nAfter traversing the front lawn and having Kasabian search for an open window to the main house, Watson cut the screen of a window. Watson told Kasabian to keep watch down by the gate; she walked over to Parent's AMC Ambassador and waited. He then removed the screen, entered through the window, and let Atkins and Krenwinkel in through the front door.\n\nAs Watson whispered to Atkins, a sleeping Frykowski awoke on the living room couch; Watson kicked him in the head. When Frykowski asked him who he was and what he was doing there, Watson replied: \"I'm the devil, and I'm here to do the devil's business.\"\n\nOn Watson's direction, Atkins found the house's three other occupants and, with Krenwinkel's help, forced them to the living room. Watson began to tie Tate and Sebring together by their necks with rope he had brought and slung up over one of the living room's ceiling beams. Sebring's protest – his second – of rough treatment of the pregnant Tate prompted Watson to shoot him. Folger was taken momentarily back to her bedroom for her purse, out of which she gave the intruders $70. After that, Watson stabbed the groaning Sebring seven times.\n\nFrykowski's hands had been bound with a towel. Freeing himself, Frykowski began struggling with Atkins, who stabbed at his legs with the knife with which she had been guarding him. As he fought his way toward and out the front door, onto the porch, Watson caught up with Frykowski and struck him over the head with the gun multiple times, stabbed him repeatedly, and shot him twice. Watson broke the gun's right grip in the process.\n\nAround this time, Kasabian was drawn up from the driveway by \"horrifying sounds\". She arrived outside the door. In a vain effort to halt the massacre, she falsely told Atkins that someone was coming.\n\nInside the house, Folger had escaped from Krenwinkel and fled out a bedroom door to the pool area. Folger was pursued to the front lawn by Krenwinkel, who caught her, stabbed her, and finally tackled her to the ground. She was then dispatched by Watson, and they stabbed Folger 28 times. As Frykowski struggled across the lawn, Watson murdered him with a final flurry of stabbings. Frykowski was stabbed a total of 51 times.\n\nIn the house, Tate pleaded to be allowed to live long enough to have her baby, and even offered herself as a hostage in an attempt to save the life of her unborn child. At this point either Atkins, Watson, or both killed Tate, who was stabbed 16 times. Watson later wrote that as she was being killed, Tate cried: \"Mother ... mother ...\"\n\nEarlier, as the four Family members were heading out from Spahn Ranch, Manson had told the women to \"leave a sign ... something witchy\". Using the towel that had bound Frykowski's hands, Atkins wrote \"pig\" on the house's front door in Tate's blood. En route home, the killers changed out of bloody clothes, which were ditched in the hills along with their weapons.\n\nIn initial confessions to cellmates of hers at Sybil Brand Institute, Atkins said she killed Tate. In later statements to her attorney, to prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi, and before a grand jury, Atkins indicated Tate had been stabbed by Tex Watson.\n\nIn his 1978 autobiography, Watson said that he had stabbed Tate and that Atkins had never touched her. Since he was aware that the prosecutor, Bugliosi, and the jury, that had tried the other Tate–LaBianca defendants, were convinced Atkins had stabbed Tate, he falsely testified that he did not stab her.\n\nThe plot of Quentin Tarantino's film \"Once Upon a Time in Hollywood\" which is planned to be released on July 26, 2019 is largely inspired by the Tate murders.\n\nThe house in which the murders occured played a role in recordings by American industrial rock bands Nine Inch Nails and Marilyn Manson. Trent Reznor moved into the house and NIN's EP release in 1992, named Broken, was recorded there. Part of NIN's second studio album, The Downward Spiral, released in 1994, was made there as well. Portrait of an American Family, Marilyn Manson's first studio album, was partially re-recorded in the house studio under Reznor's Nothing Records label.\n"}
{"id": "1108037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108037", "title": "Vladimir Bekhterev", "text": "Vladimir Bekhterev\n\nVladimir Mikhailovich Bekhterev (; January 20, 1857 – December 24, 1927) was a Russian neurologist and the father of objective psychology. He is best known for noting the role of the hippocampus in memory, his study of reflexes, and Bekhterev’s disease. Moreover, he is known for his competition with Ivan Pavlov regarding the study of conditioned reflexes.\n\nVladimir Bekhterev was born in Sorali, a village in the Vyatka Governorate of the Russian Empire between the Volga River and the Ural Mountains. . V.M. Bekhterev's father – Mikhail Pavlovich – was a district police officer; his mother, Maria Mikhailovna – was a daughter of a titular councilor, was educated at a boarding school which also provided lessons of music and the French language. Beside Vladimir they had two more sons in the family: Nikolai and Aleksandr, older than he for 6 and 3 years respectively. In 1864 the family moved to Vyatka, and in a year the head of the family died of tuberculosis when Bekhterev was still very young. While his childhood was not simple, Bekhterev did have the opportunity to attend Vyataka gymnasium in 1867, one of the oldest schools in Russia as well as the Military Medical Academy in St. Petersburg in 1873. Then he studied in St. Petersburg Medicosurgical Academy where he worked under professor Jan Lucjan Mierzejewski (). It was here where Bekhterev's interest in the discipline neuropathology and psychiatry was first sparked.\n\nRussia went to war with the Ottoman Empire in 1877. Bekhterev took time off from his studies in order to help the war effort by volunteering with an ambulance detachment. After the war, he returned to school. While attending school, Bekhterev worked as a junior doctor in the clinic of mental and nervous diseases at the Institutes of Medic’s Improvement. Here he began performing his experimental work. In 1878, Bekhterev graduated from the Medical and Surgery Academy of St. Petersburg with a degree similar to a Bachelor of Medicine. After graduating, Bekhterev worked at the Psychiatric Clinic in St. Petersburg. where he was inspired to begin studying the anatomy and physiology of the brain, the area in which he would later make some of his most notable contributions. It was also during this time that Bekhterev married Natalya Bazilevskaya.\n\nIn 1880, Bekhterev began publishing his research. One of his earlier works described Russian social issues. In this paper, he wrote essays describing the individual characteristics of the Votyaks (Udmurts), a group of people under Russian rule who live in the Udmurt Republic between the rivers Vyatka and Kama. Then on April 4, 1881, Bekhterev successfully defended his doctoral thesis, \"Clinical studies of temperature in some forms of mental disorders,\" and received his doctorate from the Medicosurgical Academy of St. Petersburg. This doctorate allowed Bekhterev to become a \"private-docent\" or associate professor, where he lectured on the diagnostics of nervous diseases.\n\nThroughout his career, Bekhterev conducted a large amount of research which greatly contributed to the current understanding of the brain. This research was described in works such as \"The Conduction Paths in the Brain and Spinal Cord,\" written in 1882, followed by a second edition written in 1896. In 1884 he published 58 scientific works about the functions of the brain. His extensive research led to an 18-month travel scholarship awarded to study and conduct research in both Germany and Paris. On this trip he worked with and learned from a variety of notable contributors the field of science such as Wilhelm Wundt (1832–1920), Paul Emil Flechsig (1847–1929), Theodor Meynert (1833–1892), Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal (1833–1890), Emil du Bois-Reymond (1818–1896), and Jean Martin Charcot (1825–1893). Bekhterev's scholarship lasted until September 1885, after which, he returned to Russia and worked as the head of the Psychiatry Department at the University of Kazan until 1893.\n\nDuring his time at the University of Kazan, Bekhterev made some of his greatest contributions to neurological science. He established the first laboratory of experimental psychology in Russia in 1886 to study the nervous system and the structures of the brain. As a result of his research, Bekhterev believed that there were zones within the brain and each of these zones had a specific function. Moreover, because nervous disorders and mental disorders usually occur in conjunction with each other, he believed that there was no definite distinction between these disorders. When conducting research at the University of Kazan, Bekhterev also identified Ankylosing Spondylitis or\nBekhterev’s disease (more frequently spelled in English as Bechterew’s disease, following the German transliteration system for Russian names), a degenerative arthritis of the spine. As a result of his groundbreaking research, in 1891, Bekhterev was granted permission by the Kazan government to open and become the chairman of the Neurology Science Society.\n\nIn 1893, Bekhterev left the University of Kazan to return to St. Petersburg Military Medical Academy to become the head to the Department of Nervous and Mental Diseases. Here he continued his contribution to neurological research by organizing the first Russian neurosurgical operating room to specialize in neurosurgery. While Bekhterev never performed any surgeries himself, he was highly involved in the diagnostics of neurological diseases, eventually earning him the Full State Chancellor Title in 1894.\n\nBetween 1894 and 1905 Bekhterev was very busy with his research. He completed between 14 and 24 scientific works per year and founded \"Nevrologicheski Vestnik\" (Neurology Bulletin) in 1893, the first Russian journal on nervous disease. Eventually, his hard work earned him the Baire’s Prize, awarded in December 1900, for the two volumes of his writing “Pathways of brain and bone marrow” in which he noted the role that the hippocampus plays in memory. Bekhterev's other writings include “Mind and Life,” a book written in 1902, which contained multiple volumes including “Foundations for Brain Functions Theory” written in 1903. “Foundations for Brain Functions Theory” described Bekhterev's views on the functions of the parts of the brain and the nervous system. It also suggested the Energetic Inhibition Theory which describes automatic responses (reflexes). This theory claims that there is an active energy in the brain which moves towards a center, and when this happens, the other parts of the brain are left in an inhibited state.\nHe published around 600 scientific papers. The most important works are \"Suggestion and its Role in Social Life\" (1899), \"Consciousness and its Borders\" (1888), \"Psyche an Life\" (1902),\"Objective Psychology\" (1907), \"Subject Matter and Tasks of Social Psychology as an Objective Science\" (1911), \"Collective Reflexology\" (1921) and \"General Principles of Human Reflexology\" (1926). An Autobiography was published at 1928, after his death. He founded also other scientific journals: the “Archives of psychiatry, neurology and experimental psychology” (1896) and the “Bulletin of psychology, criminal anthropology and hypnotism” (1904).\n“Suggestion and its role in social life” is a book of the moment, the turning of the nineteenth to the twentieth century.\nOn the question of the so-called psychic epidemic (folie à deux, folie à millions…), the author refers Calmeil, Landel, Laségue, Falret, Legrand de Saule, Regnard, Baillarger, Moreau de Tours and Morel. Gustave Le Bon and Gabriel Tarde are also mentioned on the psychology of the crowds.. He stresses the difference between suggestion and hypnosis\nBekhterev was interested in phenomena of direct mental suggestion and made experiments to influence behavior of dogs at distance (José Manuel Jara, 2013).\nBekhterev's research on associated responses would become highly connected with the important area of psychology called Behaviorism. It also led to a long-standing rivalry with Ivan Pavlov, described in further detail below.\n\nObjective psychology is based on the principle that all behavior can be explained by objectively studying reflexes. Therefore, behavior is studied through observable traits. This idea contrasted the more subjective views of psychology such as structuralism, which allowed for the use of tools such as introspection to study inner thoughts about personal experiences.\n\nObjective Psychology would later become the basis of Reflexology, Gestalt Psychology, and especially behaviorism, an area which would later revolutionize the field of psychology and the manner in which the science of psychology is conducted. The rise of Soviet sociolinguistics from the ashes of völkerpsychologie. Journal of the History of the behavioral Sciences. Without Bekhterev’s beliefs about how to best conduct research, it is possible that these important approaches to psychology may have never been established.\n\nBekhterev founded the Psychoneurological Institute at the St. Petersburg State Medical Academy; however, he was forced to resign in 1913 as a professor at the Military Medical Academy in St. Petersburg. He was reinstated in 1918 following the Russian Revolution of 1917 and became the chairperson for the Department of Psychology and Reflexology at the University of Petrograd in St. Petersburg as well as established the Institute of Studying Brain Mental Activities.\n\nIn 1921 he was involved in organising the First Conference on Scientific Organization of Labour. He was critical of Taylorism arguing that \"The ultimate ideal of the labour problem is not in it, but is in such organisation of the labour process that would yield a maximum of efficiency coupled with a minimum of health hazards, absence of fatigue and a guarantee of the sound health and all round personal development of the working people.\"\n\nDuring his time away from teaching, Bekhterev worked to open an orphanage, complete with both a kindergarten and school, for refugee children from the western regions of Russia. He also participated in creating health services in the \"young country\" of Russia.\n\nBoth Ivan Pavlov and Bekhterev independently developed a theory of conditioned reflexes which describe automatic responses to the environment. What was called association reflex by Bekhterev is called the conditioned reflex by Pavlov, although the two theories are essentially the same. Because John Watson discovered the salivation research completed by Pavlov, this research was incorporated into Watson’s famous theory of Behaviorism, making Pavlov a household name. While Watson used Pavlov’s research to support his Behaviorist claims, closer inspection shows that in fact, Watson’s teachings are better supported by Bekhterev’s research.\n\nBekhterev was familiar with Pavlov’s work and had multiple criticisms. According to Bekhterev, one of Pavlov’s major research flaws included using a saliva method. He found fault with this method because it could not be easily used on humans. In contrast, Bekhterev's method of studying this association (conditioned) reflex using mild electrical stimulation to examine motor reflexes was able to demonstrate the existence of this reflex in humans. Bekhterev also questioned using acid to encourage saliva from the animals. He felt that this practice may contaminate the results of the experiment. Finally, Bekhterev criticized Pavlov’s method by stating that the secretory reflex is unimportant and unreliable. If the animal is not hungry then food may not elicit the desired response, acting as evidence of the method’s unreliability. Pavlov however was not without his own criticisms of Bekhterev, stating that Bekhterev’s laboratory was poorly controlled.\n\nThere is a lot of mystery surrounding the death of Bekhterev. It is known for certain that Bekhterev died in 1927, but controversy exists surrounding his death. Bekhterev was a co-founder of the First All-Russian Congress of Neurologists and Psychiatry, held in December 1927 in Moscow and was appointed as an Honorary President of this Congress. On December 23, 1927, after having lectured on child neurology at the Congress, Bekhterev went to Kremlin to examine Joseph Stalin. About 3 hours later he came back to the Congress for a meeting and said to some colleagues there: ‘I have just examined a paranoiac with a short, dry hand’. The day after, Bekhterev suddenly died, causing speculation that he was poisoned by Stalin as revenge for the diagnosis.\nMoreover, after Bekhterev's death, Stalin had Bekhterev's name and all of his works removed from Soviet textbooks.\n\nVladimir Bekhterev contributions to science and specifically psychology were impressive. Bekhterev was a huge force in the science of neurology; greatly enhancing our knowledge on how the brain works as well as the parts of the brain. For instance, his research on the hippocampus allowed for the understanding of one of the most central portions of the brain vital to our function of memory. Moreover, his influence to psychology was immeasurable. Bekhterev’s works laid the groundwork for the future of psychology. His ideas regarding Objective psychology as well as his views on reflexes were the cornerstone of Behaviorism and as a result, the future of psychology.\n\n\"Parts of the Brain\":\n\n\"Other Accomplishments\":\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11906749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11906749", "title": "Volodymyr Chemerys", "text": "Volodymyr Chemerys\n\nVolodymyr Chemerys (; born October 19, 1962 in Konotop) is a Ukrainian politician and human rights activist. Chemerys was a member of the Verkhovna Rada (parliament) of the second convocation (1994–1998), but he is mostly known as one of informal leaders of the Ukraine without Kuchma mass protest campaign of 2000–2001.\n\nVolodymyr Chemerys is a founding member of the Ukrainian Helsinki Union—one of the first \"perestroika\" organizations in Ukraine advocating renessaince of national culture and independence (now a human rights-advocating group)\n\nHe also took part in the legendary 1991 student protests in Kiev.\n\nChemerys was elected to the Verkhovna Rada from a Frankivsky constituency #265 in the city of Lviv, after nominated and supported by the right-centrist Ukrainian Republican Party. Chemerys says he was mostly relying on people-to-people communications and small group of dedicated campaign volunteers so that the whole campaigning cost him and the party as low as U.S. $600.\n\nLater, Volodymyr Chemerys was also elected as the regional party leader in the city of Kiev.\n\nIn 2000, Volodymyr Chemerys co-founded the \"Ukraine without Kuchma\" campaign. A co-founder of the Ukraine Without Kuchma and a member of the NSF, Chemerys has been an effective public speaker and an active negotiator. For example, in an address to parliament, Chemerys described the disappearance of journalist Georgiy Gongadze and the audio tapes presented by Socialist leader Oleksandr Moroz apparently implicating President Kuchma as \"the last drop that filled the cup of distrust in the authorities. In addition, he was one of the representatives of the campaign received by their political enemy President Kuchma.\n\nChemerys has also been active participant of subsequent protest campaigns started by the opposition against Leonid Kuchma. During one protest in March 2001, Chemerys was hospitalized with a head injury along with Andriy Shkil, the leader of the right-wing UNA-UNSO party. While in the hospital, Chemerys learned that a warrant for his arrest had been issued.\n\nUnlike predominant majority of his UWK co-participants, Volodymyr Chemerys was sceptical to Viktor Yuschenko during the 2004 presidential election and even participated in the marginal \"Ashamed to vote!\" campaign (meaning \"for any of the candidates\").\n\nIn September 2006, Chemerys visited Prairie Village, Kansas, United States on one stop on a three-week nationwide tour to witness and explore democracy in real life. Chemerys was presented to the city as a Board member of the Institute for Social and Economic Studies and Ukrainian Helsinki Human Rights Union.\n\nDespite his political start in a rightist party, Volodymyr Chemerys is now declaring leftist views. He is currently heading the \"Respublica\" Institute - a left-liberal non-governmental organization. Its most known project is advocacy of the freedom of assembly and oversight of police attitude towards participants of political rallies and mass events. \n\nRecently, Chemerys participated in a public investigation of a loud police brutality scandal concerning clashes on a Ukrainian Football Cup-2007 final game held at the Olimpiysky Stadium.\n\nIn 2011 Volodymyr Chemerys and other civic activists have started a National Initiative “For Peaceful Protest!”, a voluntary coalition of independent NGOs from all over the country, which stand against attempts to limit the right to peaceful assembly in Ukraine (http://www.zmina.org.ua). \n\nChemerys is also leading the continuous public campaign aimed to remembrance of Taras Protsiuk, Ukrainian TV-cameraman killed during Iraq War by U.S. tank fire, and proper investigation of the death. As part of the campaign, the activists conduct occasional protest vigils of the United States embassy in Kiev with a slogan \"Bush, we remember that!\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50069601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50069601", "title": "Ángela Bachiller", "text": "Ángela Bachiller\n\nÁngela Covadonga Bachiller is a Spanish city councillor for Valladolid and a member of the People's Party. She became Spain's first city councillor with Down syndrome, sworn in on 29 July 2013. Bachiller had previously worked for two and a half years at Valladolid City Hall as an administrative assistant. She had the opportunity to stand when a fellow People's Party member politician stood down.\n\nMayor Francisco Javier León de la Riva described Bachiller as \"an example of strength and of someone overcoming obstacles\", while her boss in Valladolid's social welfare department, Rosa Hernández, said: \"The most important thing is that her family didn't overprotect her. She's tenacious and capable of carrying out her work at all times.\"\n\nThe opposition Socialist Party (PSOE) supports Bachiller's appointment. \"We see this as something perfectly normal\" says Óscar Puente, the head of the Socialist Group in Valladolid City Council. \"Let's hope that it encourages other people in her situation to play a bigger role in society.\"\n\n"}
