{"id": "5466648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5466648", "title": "Abner Kneeland", "text": "Abner Kneeland\n\nAbner Kneeland (April 7, 1774 – August 27, 1844) was an American evangelist and theologian who advocated many views, religious and social, which were considered extremely radical for his day. Due to his very public stance on these issues, Kneeland became the last man jailed in the United States for blasphemy.\n\nKneeland was born in Gardner, Massachusetts. At the age of 21, he attended a Baptist church and served as a lay preacher for a time. However, he soon converted to Universalism where he was ordained a minister. He served as minister of various churches for a time, helping organize hymnals and making his own translation of the New Testament. He also debated with other public theologians of the day. As time went on, he became more and more skeptical of revealed religion, causing schisms in the churches he administered. Eventually, he and the Universalist Church parted ways after his views became too far removed from Christianity. Kneeland became a freethinker and pantheist, saying that the Universalist's Christian God was \"nothing more than a chimera of their own imagination.\"\n\nHe edited a Universalist magazine in Philadelphia 1821–1823; he managed and edited the \"Olive Branch and Christian Enquirer\" in New York City in 1828; and he founded the \"Boston Investigator\", an organ of free thought, in Boston in 1832.\n\nUnder the colonial charter of Massachusetts, blasphemy was still a crime, albeit one punished extremely rarely. However, perhaps because his other views inflamed the judiciary, Kneeland was charged with having violated the law. The final trial was held in 1838, five years after he had published the statements that caused the upset in the first place. Kneeland was convicted and served sixty days in prison. He was described by the judge as \"a cantankerous and inflexible heretic.\"\n\nKneeland left Massachusetts after the trial and moved to Iowa, where he started a small utopian community named Salubria (near present-day Farmington, Iowa). Salubria failed shortly after his death in 1844.\n\nIn matters of religion, Kneeland became more and more disenchanted of religion handed down from some prophet and enshrined by tradition.\"But I certify you brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is \"not after man\". For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught \"it\", but by the revelation Jesus Christ.\" Here is Paul, admitting after having preached a considerable number of years,\" that he knows nothing true of Jesus Christ, but that which Jesus Christ had revealed to himself\" ; and expressly declaring that this revelation had been a mystery kept secret since the world began, and was only then \"first preached by himself\". This declaration, were there nothing else, would be sufficient to destroy all idea of the four gospels being authentic.\n\nKneeland Henry Dodwell: We have at this day, certain most authentic ecclesiastical writers of the times, as Clemens Romanus, Barnabas, Hermas, Ignatius, and Polycarp, who wrote in the same order wherein I have named them, and after all the writers of the New Testament. But in Hermas you will not find one passage, or any mention of the New Testament, nor in all the rest is any one of the evangelists named. If sometimes they cite passages like those we read in our gospels, you will find them so changed, and for the most part so interpolated, that it cannot be known whether they produced them out of ours, or some apocryphal gospels. Nay, they sometimes cite passages which most certainly are not in our present gospels.\n\nKneeland disdained societal mores, preferring naturalistic and personal quests for truth. He believed in equal treatment for all people, both under the law as well as by society. Kneeland applied this even when religious scripture would seem to indicate different roles. This included support of such controversial ideas as divorce rights for women, married women keeping their own names and property, and refusal to condemn miscegenation (now known as interracial marriage). Kneeland was also in favor of birth control. He allowed fiery abolitionist William Lloyd Garrison the use of his lecture hall when the churches in Boston had turned him away.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40185531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40185531", "title": "Aidin Bozorgi", "text": "Aidin Bozorgi\n\nAidin Bozorgi (, born 1989 in Tehran, Iran – disappeared July 20, 2013 in Broad Peak, Pakistan) was an Iranian mountain climber. He was 13 years old when he started mountaineering. Soon, he had shown how talented he was by climbing Mount Damavand when he was only 15 years old. Bozorgi was good at most mountain-relating climbing sports such as ice climbing, mixed climbing, rock climbing, sport climbing, big wall climbing, traditional climbing, aid climbing and bouldering.\n\nBozorgi had grown up in Tehran, Iran. His achievements were in variety of fields like painting, kung-fu and mountaineering. Hasan Najjarian was his motivator into the world of mountaineering. Being his trainee for couple of years, he was accepted in K.N.Toosi University of Technology and continued his mountaineering life with the university mountaineering group. In order to be a professional mountaineer, he joined \"Arash\" alpine club in 2007.\n\nBozorgi got third place in Khwarizmi competition 2005. He was educated in Tehran, Iran, receiving a Bachelor's degree in Electrical engineering at K.N.Toosi University of Technology 2013. He was ranked 5th in 18th national Economics Olympiad. He also ranked 11th in the national Master's degree exam in Economics 2013.\n\nBozorgi (with Pouya Keivan and Mojtaba Jarahi) successfully completed a new route on the Southwest Face of Broad Peak they had been working on since 2009. The descent proved to be more complicated than expected. Climber Thomas Laemmle, who helped with the unsuccessful search and rescue attempt, stated that he believed Bozorgi and his companions were dead, the search operation on Broad Peak has formally been called off. They have been presumed dead.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56543662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56543662", "title": "Aisha Bowe", "text": "Aisha Bowe\n\nAisha Bowe is an aerospace engineer and CEO of STEMBoard, a technology company.\n\nBowe completed her undergraduate and graduate degrees in aerospace engineering in 2009 at the University of Michigan. She has said she chose aerospace engineering because of an interest in science fiction. Her supervisor, Thomas Zurbuchen, was working on the Mercury Messenger. She worked as an intern in the Ames Research Center in 2008, before joining as a Mission Engineer.\n\nBowe worked in the Ames Research Center, in the Flight Trajectory Dynamics & Controls Branch of the Aviation Systems Division. In 2012 she received the National Society of Black Engineers award for Outstanding Technical Contribution for her paper \"Evaluation of a Fuel Efficient Aircraft Maneuver for Conflict Resolution\". She joined the AST Flight & Fluid Mechanics group in 2009, assisting in the development and of algorithms in support of Air Traffic Management. Bowe is from The Bahamas, and wants \"to see more Bahamians in the science and technology field\".\n\nWhilst at NASA, she served as liaison to the Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement (MESA) Program. In this role, she mentored students, held interview workshops and led NASA site tours. She was also part of the African-American advisory group. She is a member of the NASDAQ Young Executive Advisory Board.\n\nAisha is co-founder and CEO of STEMBoard, a company that solves technology challenges for government and private-sector clients. STEM Board is a Certified Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business supported by the U.S. Women's Chamber of Commerce. They are working to close the educational achievement gap of minority ethnic groups, through STEM camps, partnerships with historically black colleges and universities and career opportunities for young people. STEMBoard are currently incubated out of the Department of Defense, a deal worth $5 million.\n\n2015 - US Women's Chamber of Commerce “Emerging Star” Award\n\n2014 - Silicon Valley's National Coalition of 100 Black Women's Women in Technology of the Year Award\n\n2012 - NASA’s Engineering Honor Award\n\n2012 - NASA Equal Employment Opportunity Medal\n\n2012 - National Society of Black Engineers 21st Century Trailblazers in Aviation and Aerodynamics Award\n\n2012 - National Society of Black Engineers Outstanding Technical Contribution\n"}
{"id": "22224608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22224608", "title": "Aud Haakonsdottir of Lade", "text": "Aud Haakonsdottir of Lade\n\nAud Haakonsdottir of Lade, also called \"Öda Haakonsdottir of Lade\" (10th century), was a legendary Swedish Viking age queen consort, according to the sagas the last spouse of King Eric the Victorious of Sweden.\n\nAud was the daughter of the Norwegian jarl Haakon Sigurdsson of Lade and sister of regent Eiríkr Hákonarson. It is not known exactly when she married King Eric, or when she was born and died, but she is guessed to have married him after his marriage to the famous Sigrid Storråda. The marriage has never been confirmed, and it is also suggested, that if she did exist, she may have been his mistress, or a brief marriage late in his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "4216905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4216905", "title": "Avener", "text": "Avener\n\nAn avener (), or avenor, was the chief officer of the stables of a king, and the officer in charge of obtaining positions for horses belonging to the king. The Latin version of the word was \"avenarius\", from the Latin \"avena\", meaning \"oats\" or \"straw\". The avenar was under the watch of the Master of the Horse, and in his duties administered the oaths of office to all other stable officials. He was also in charge of stable expense accounts and payroll.\n\nAn avenary, related to an avener, was the largest department in the household of the king. There was generally a staff of 100 to 200 valets and grooms which, under the watch of the avenar, tended to the horses of the king, his household, officials and attendants, as well as the horses of royal visitors.\n"}
{"id": "58889923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58889923", "title": "Caterina Coromina i Agustí", "text": "Caterina Coromina i Agustí\n\nCaterina Coromina i Agustí (Oristà, 19 October 1824 - Vic, 11 Juli 1893) was a Spanish religious woman and founder of the Josephine Sisters, an order which works for the elderly and the poor. She is recognized as Venerable by the Catholic Church.\n\nCaterina Coromina was born in 1824 on a farm in the parish of Santa Eulàlia de Pardines, in a family of modest means. She did not attend school and spent her childhood working on the land with her eleven brothers. Her environment was strict and pious, which influenced her greatly.\n\nShe desired a religious life ever since she was young but was unable to because she lacked a dowry. In 1852, at age 28, family circumstances forced her to enter domestic service for the next nineteen years. At first she was employed on a farm; later she did the household for a priest, where she probably learned to read by way of \"The Imitation of Christ\", a reading that allowed her to deepen her personal piety. Later she worked for various other families in Vic.\n\nCaterina Coromina decided to stop working and fulfill her mission. She rented a place and began to live a religious life and minister to the sick, with medicine donated by the local pharmacist.\n\nStarting in 1877 she began to take in others, and with three women she began a communal life, founding the order of the Josephine Sisters, approved by the bishop of Vic, Mgr. Colomer, who became its spiritual director.\n\nThe group experienced such poverty that the it fell apart, but it reconstituted itself after a year. The first religious vows were spoken in 1881, after which the community experienced growth and expanded throughout Catalonia--to Ripoll, Vilassar de Dalt, Manlleu, Torellà, Martorell, and Vilanova i la Geltrú.\n\nThe arrival of new nuns who were better educated than Caterina Coromina caused some friction in the community beginning in 1886, and in the end the community's leadership was taken from her. She rededicated herself to poverty, and died in Vic in 1893.\n\nHer case for beatification was opened, and her heroism and virtues recognized. Pope Benedict XVI declared her venerable in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "50041753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50041753", "title": "Chan Mono", "text": "Chan Mono\n\nChan Mono is director-general of administration and finance at the Cambodian Justice Ministry.\n"}
{"id": "28365463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28365463", "title": "Chen Shimei", "text": "Chen Shimei\n\nChen Shimei is a Chinese opera character and a byword in China for a heartless and unfaithful man.\n\n“Illustrated Edition of Bao Zheng’s Trials of A Hundred Legal Cases” (增像包龙图判百家公案), “Bao Zheng’s Cases” (包公案) in short, published in 1595 had already had the story of Chen Shimei whose children’s names were as the same as they are in the traditional opera.\n\nThe story of Beijing opera “[Chen Shi] Mei’s Beheading Case” (铡美案)：\n\nIn Song Dynasty, Chen Shimei (陈 世美) placed first in the imperial examination and was awarded to be the brother-in-law of the Emperor. Due to Chen coveted wealth and power, he kept his marriage with Qin Xianglian (秦 香蓮) a secret. However, when his first wife came to the capital with their children to look for him, Chen Shimei not only claimed not knowing them, but ordered his bodyguard Han Qi (韩 琪) to kill them. However, when Qin Xianglian cried and told the truth, Han Qi could not kill them but killed himself in Sanguantang (三官堂). Qin Xianglian went to Bao Zheng to sue Chen Shimei. Bao Zheng planned to have Qin confront Chen, tried to give Chen a chance for Qin and their children's sakes. Chen took himself as the Emperor’s relative for granted and refused to tell the truth, further revealed his corrupted character therefore lost his chance at redemption. When Bao Zheng was going to behead him, the Empress dowager and the Princess came to stop him. But Bao Zheng ignored it and beheaded Chen Shimei.\n\nAfter the foundation of People's Republic of China, Changchun Film Studio (長春電影製片廠) produced colourful opera film “Qin Xianglian” in 1964 to preserve the stage craft of Beijing opera performing artists such as Junqiu Zhang (張 君秋), Lianliang Ma (馬 連良), Duokui Li (李 多奎) and Shengrong Qiu (裘 盛戎).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7987256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7987256", "title": "Christopher McCowen", "text": "Christopher McCowen\n\nChristopher M. McCowen was convicted in the 2002 rape and murder of Christa Worthington, a former fashion writer whose family had lived in Truro, Massachusetts, for generations. McCowen was charged with the crimes in April 2005, more than three years after the discovery of Worthington's body in her Truro home on January 6, 2002.\n\nMcCowen had lived on Cape Cod since about 1998 and had been a garbage collector whose regular route included Worthington's home. McCowen was charged on the basis of genetic fingerprinting and incriminating statements he made during a police interview. On November 16, 2006, he was convicted of first-degree murder, aggravated rape, and aggravated armed burglary. He was sentenced to life without parole.\n\nIn December 2010, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court denied an appeal for a new trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "302767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302767", "title": "Comfort women", "text": "Comfort women\n\nComfort women were women and girls forced into sexual slavery by the Imperial Japanese Army in occupied territories before and during World War II.\n\nThe name \"comfort women\" is a translation of the Japanese \"\" (慰安婦), a euphemism for \"prostitute(s)\". Estimates vary as to how many women were involved, with numbers ranging from as low as 20,000 (by Japanese conservative historian Ikuhiko Hata) to as high as 360,000 to 410,000 (by a Chinese scholar); the exact numbers are still being researched and debated. Most of the women were from occupied countries, including Korea, China, and the Philippines. Women were used for military \"comfort stations\" from Burma, Thailand, Vietnam, Malaya, Taiwan (then a Japanese dependency), the Dutch East Indies, Portuguese Timor, and other Japanese-occupied territories. Stations were located in Japan, China, the Philippines, Indonesia, then Malaya, Thailand, Burma, New Guinea, Hong Kong, Macau, and French Indochina. A smaller number of women of European origin were also involved from the Netherlands and Australia with an estimated 200–400 Dutch women alone.\n\nAccording to testimonies, young women were abducted from their homes in countries under Imperial Japanese rule. In many cases, women were lured with promises of work in factories or restaurants, or opportunities for higher education; once recruited, they were incarcerated in comfort stations both inside their nations and abroad.\n\nMilitary correspondence of the Imperial Japanese Army shows that the aim of facilitating comfort stations was the prevention of rape crimes committed by Japanese army personnel and thus preventing the rise of hostility among people in occupied areas. Carmen Argibay, a former member of the Argentine Supreme Court of Justice, also states that the Japanese government aimed to prevent atrocities like the Rape of Nanking by confining rape and sexual abuse within military controlled facilities, or stop the incident from leaking to the international press should such events occur. She also states that the government wanted to minimize medical expenses on treating venereal diseases that the soldiers acquired from frequent and widespread rape, which hindered Japan's military capacity. Furthermore, Yuki Tanaka also suggests that local brothels outside of the military's reach had issues of security since there were possibilities of spies disguised as workers of such private facilities.\n\nSince prostitution in Japan was well-organized and open, the Japanese government and military developed a similar program to serve the Japanese Armed Forces.\nThe Japanese Army established the comfort stations to prevent venereal diseases and rape by Japanese soldiers, to provide comfort to soldiers and head off espionage. According to Japanese historian Yoshiaki Yoshimi, however, the comfort stations did not solve, but aggravated the first two problems. Yoshimi has asserted, \"The Japanese Imperial Army feared most that the simmering discontentment of the soldiers could explode into a riot and revolt. That is why it provided women\".\n\nThe first comfort station was established in the Japanese concession in Shanghai in 1932. Earlier comfort women were Japanese prostitutes who volunteered for such service. However, as Japan continued military expansion, the military found itself short of Japanese volunteers, and turned to the local population to coerce women into serving in these stations, or abducted them. Many women responded to calls for work as factory workers or nurses, and did not know that they were being pressed into sexual slavery.\n\nIn the early stages of the war, Japanese authorities recruited prostitutes through conventional means. In urban areas, conventional advertising through middlemen was used alongside kidnapping. Middlemen advertised in newspapers circulating in Japan and the Japanese colonies of Korea, Taiwan, Manchukuo, and China. These sources soon dried up, especially from Japan. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs resisted further issuance of travel visas for Japanese prostitutes, feeling it tarnished the image of the Japanese Empire. The military turned to acquiring comfort women outside mainland Japan, mostly from Korea and occupied China. An existing system of licensed prostitution within Korea made it easy for Japan to recruit females in large numbers.\n\nMany women were tricked or defrauded into joining the military brothels. The US Office of War Interrogation Report No.49 indicates that Korean girls misunderstood the nature of the service as treating wounds or generally making the soldiers happy. Based on false characterizations and payment from the Japanese recruitment agents which can help relieve family debts, many Korean girls enlisted to take the job. Furthermore, the South East Asia Translation and Interrogation Center(SEATIC) Psychological Warfare Interrogation Bulletin No.2 states that a Japanese facility manager purchased Korean women for 300 to 1000 yen depending on her physical characteristics, who then became his property and were not released even after completing the servitude terms specified in the contract. In northern Hebei province of China Hui Muslim girls were recruited to \"Huimin Girls' school\" to be trained as entertainers, but then forced to serve as sex slaves. The American historian Gerhard Weinberg wrote that a major issue that no historian has examined is whether the soldiers of the Indian National Army \"...were permitted to share in the \"comfort\" provided by thousands of kidnapped Korean young women held as sex slaves by the Imperial Japanese Army at its camps. This might have provided them with some insight into the nature of Japanese, as opposed to British, colonial rule, as well what might be in store for their sisters and daughters.\"\n\nUnder the strain of the war effort, the military became unable to provide enough supplies to Japanese units; in response, the units made up the difference by demanding or looting supplies from the locals. The military often directly demanded that local leaders procure women for the brothels along the front lines, especially in the countryside where middlemen were rare. When the locals were considered hostile in China, Japanese soldiers carried out the \"Three Alls Policy\" (\"kill all-burn all-loot all\") which included indiscriminately kidnapping and raping local civilians. By taking women from other Asian countries occupied by Japan to serve as \"comfort women\" was intended by the Japanese state to symbolically \"castrate\" other Asian men to show that they could not defend their women as fathers, brothers, husbands or boyfriends (the ultimate failure of a man in the patriarchal, Confucian cultures of East Asia) and to degrade the women themselves.\n\nOn April 17, 2007, Yoshiaki Yoshimi and Hirofumi Hayashi announced the discovery of seven official documents in the archives of the Tokyo Trials, suggesting that Imperial military forces – such as the \"Tokkeitai\" (Naval military police) – forced women whose fathers attacked the \"Kenpeitai\" (Army military police) to work in front-line brothels in China, Indochina, and Indonesia. These documents were initially made public at the war crimes trial. In one of these, a lieutenant is quoted as confessing to having organized a brothel and having used it himself. Another source refers to \"Tokkeitai\" members having arrested women on the streets and putting them in brothels after enforced medical examinations.\n\nOn May 12, 2007, journalist Taichiro Kajimura announced the discovery of 30 Dutch government documents submitted to the Tokyo tribunal as evidence of a forced mass prostitution incident in 1944 in Magelang.\n\nThe South Korean government designated Bae Jeong-ja as a pro-Japanese collaborator (\"chinilpa\") in September 2007 for recruiting comfort women.\n\nIn 2014, China produced almost 90 documents from the archives of the Kwantung Army on the issue. According to China, the documents provide ironclad proof that the Japanese military forced Asian women to work in front-line brothels before and during World War II.\n\nIn June 2014, more official documents were made public from the government of Japan's archives, documenting sexual violence and women forced into sexual slavery, committed by Imperial Japanese soldiers in French Indochina and Indonesia.\n\nA 2015 study examined archival data which was previously difficult to access, partly due to the China-Japan Joint Communiqué of 1972 in which the Chinese government agreed not to seek any restitution for wartime crimes and incidents. New documents discovered in China shed light on facilities inside comfort stations operated within a Japanese army compound, and the conditions of the Korean comfort women. Documents were discovered verifying the Japanese Army as the funding agency for purchasing some comfort women.\n\nDocuments were found in Shanghai that showed details of how the Japanese Army went about opening comfort stations for Japanese troops in occupied Shanghai. Documents included the Tianjin Municipal Archives from the archival files of the Japanese government and the Japanese police during the periods of the occupation in World War II. Municipal archives from Shanghai and Nanjing were also examined. One conclusion reached was that the relevant archives in Korea are distorted. A conclusion of the study was that the Japanese Imperial government, and the colonial government in Korea, tried to avoid recording the illegal mobilization of comfort women. It was concluded that they burned most of the records immediately before the surrender; but, the study confirmed that some documents and records survived.\n\nLack of official documentation has made estimating the total number of comfort women difficult. Vast amounts of material pertaining to war crimes, and the responsibility of the nation's highest leaders, were destroyed on the orders of the Japanese government at the end of the war. Historians have arrived at various estimates by looking at surviving documentation, which indicates the ratio of soldiers in a particular area to the number of women, and replacement rates of the women. Historian Yoshiaki Yoshimi, who conducted the first academic study on the topic and brought the issue out into the open, estimated the number to be between 50,000 and 200,000.\n\nBased on these estimates, most international media sources quote about 200,000 young women were kidnapped by Japanese soldiers to serve in military brothels. The BBC quotes \"200,000 to 300,000\", and the International Commission of Jurists quotes \"estimates of historians of 100,000 to 200,000 women.\" The \"Asahi Shinbun\" apologized in 2014 for stating the number of Korean comfort women at 200,000, which was regarded as inaccurate and the result of a conflation with an unrelated factory program.\n\nAccording to State University of New York at Buffalo professor Yoshiko Nozaki and other sources, the majority of the women were from Korea and China. Chuo University professor Yoshiaki Yoshimi states there were about 2,000 centers where as many as 200,000 Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Filipino, Taiwanese, Burmese, Indonesian, Dutch and Australian women were interned. Ikuhiko Hata, a professor of Nihon University, estimated the number of women working in the licensed pleasure quarter was fewer than 20,000 and that they were 40% Japanese, 20% Koreans, 10% Chinese, with others making up the remaining 30%. According to Hata, the total number of government-regulated prostitutes in Japan was only 170,000 during World War II. Others came from the Philippines, Taiwan, Dutch East Indies, and other Japanese-occupied countries and regions. Some Dutch women, captured in Dutch colonies in Asia, were also forced into sexual slavery.\n\nIn further analysis of the Imperial Army medical records for venereal disease treatment from 1940, Yoshimi concluded that if the percentages of women treated reflected the general makeup of the total comfort women population, Korean women comprised 51.8 percent, Chinese 36 percent and Japanese 12.2 percent.\n\nIn 1997, Bruce Cumings, a historian of Korea, wrote that Japan had forced quotas to supply the comfort women program, and that Korean men helped recruit the victims. Cumings stated that between 100,000 and 200,000 Korean girls and women were recruited. In Korea, the daughters of the gentry and the bureaucracy were spared from being sent into the \"comfort women corps\" unless they or their families showed signs of pro-independence tendencies, and the overwhelming majority of the Korean girls taken into the \"comfort women corps\" came from the poor. The Army and Navy often subcontracted the work of taking girls into the \"comfort women corps\" in Korea to contractors, who were usually associated in some way with organized crime groups, who were paid for girls they presented. Though a substantial minority of the contractors in Korea were Japanese, the majority were Korean.\n\nA Dutch government study described how the Japanese military itself seized the women by force in the Dutch East Indies. It concluded that among the 200 to 300 European women found in the Japanese military brothels, “some sixty five were most certainly forced into prostitution.”\nOthers, faced with starvation in the refugee camps, agreed to offers of food and payment for work, the nature of which was not completely revealed to them. Some of the women also volunteered in hopes protecting the younger ones. The women forced into prostitution may therefore be much higher than the Dutch record have previously indicated. The number of Dutch women that were sexually assaulted or molested were also largely ignored.\n\nJ.F. van Wagtendonk and the Dutch Broadcast Foundation estimated a total number of 400 Dutch girls were taken from the camps to become comfort women.\n\nBesides Dutch women, many Javanese were also recruited from Indonesia as comfort women. Most were adolescent girls aged 14–19 who had completed some education and were deceived through promises of higher education in Tokyo or Singapore. Common destinations of comfort women from Java included Burma, Thailand, and Eastern Indonesia. Interviews conducted with former comfort women also suggest that some women came from the island of Flores. After the war, many Javanese comfort women who survived stayed in the locations where they had been trafficked to and became integrated into local populations.\n\nTo date, only one Japanese woman has published her testimony. This was done in 1971, when a former comfort woman forced to work for Showa soldiers in Taiwan, published her memoirs under the pseudonym of Suzuko Shirota.\n\nApproximately three quarters of comfort women died, and most survivors were left infertile due to sexual trauma or sexually transmitted diseases. Beatings and physical torture were said to be common. The women who were not prostitutes prior to joining the \"comfort women corps\", especially those taken in by force, were normally \"broken in\" by being raped. One Korean woman, Kim Hak-sun stated in a 1991 interview about how she was drafted into the \"comfort women corps\" in 1941: \"When I was 17 years old, the Japanese soldiers came along in a truck, beat us [her and a friend], and then dragged us into the back. I was told if I were drafted, I could earn lots of money in a textile factory...The first day I was raped and the rapes never stopped...I was born a woman but never lived as a woman...I feel sick when I come close to a man. Not just Japanese men, but all men-even my own husband who saved me from the brothel. I shiver whenever I see a Japanese flag...Why should I feel ashamed? I don't have to feel ashamed.\" Kim stated that she was raped 30–40 times a day, everyday of the year during her time as a \"comfort woman\". Reflecting their dehumanized status, Army and Navy records where referring to the movement of \"comfort women\" always used the term \"units of war supplies\". One Japanese Army doctor, Asō Tetsuo testified that the \"comfort women\" were seen as \"female ammunition\" and as \"public toilets\", as literally just things to be used and abused, with some \"comfort women\" being forced to donate blood for the treatment of wounded soldiers. At least 80% of the \"comfort women\" were Korean, who were assigned to the lower ranks while Japanese and European women went to the officers. For example, Dutch women captured in the Dutch East Indies (modern Indonesia) were reserved exclusively for the officers. Korea is a Confucian country where premarital sex was widely disapproved of, and since the Korean teenagers taken into the \"comfort women corps\" were almost always virgins, it was felt that this was the best way to limit the spread of venereal diseases that would otherwise incapacitate soldiers and sailors.\n\nTen Dutch women were taken by force from prison camps in Java by officers of the Japanese Imperial Army to become forced sex slaves in February 1944. They were systematically beaten and raped day and night. As a victim of the incident, in 1990, Jan Ruff-O'Herne testified to a U.S. House of Representatives committee:\nIn their first morning at the brothel, photographs of Ruff-O'Herne and the others were taken and placed on the veranda which was used as a reception area for the Japanese personnel who would choose from these photographs. Over the following four months the girls were raped and beaten day and night, with those who became pregnant forced to have abortions. After four harrowing months, the girls were moved to a camp at Bogor, in West Java, where they were reunited with their families. This camp was exclusively for women who had been put into military brothels, and the Japanese warned the inmates that if anyone told what had happened to them, they and their family members would be killed. Several months later the O'Hernes were transferred to a camp at Batavia, which was liberated on August 15, 1945.\n\nThe Japanese officers involved received some punishment by Japanese authorities at the end of the war. After the end of the war, 11 Japanese officers were found guilty with one soldier being sentenced to death by the Batavia War Criminal Court. The court decision found that the charge violated was the Army's order to hire only voluntary women. Victims from East Timor testified they were forced into slavery even when they were not old enough to have started menstruating. The court testimonies state that these prepubescent girls were repeatedly raped by Japanese soldiers while those who refused to comply were executed.\n\nHank Nelson, emeritus professor at the Australian National University's Asia Pacific Research Division, has written about the brothels run by the Japanese military in Rabaul, in what is now Papua New Guinea during WWII. He quotes from the diary of Gordon Thomas, a POW in Rabaul. Thomas writes that the women working at the brothels \"most likely served 25 to 35 men a day\" and that they were \"victims of the yellow slave trade\". Nelson also quotes from Kentaro Igusa, a Japanese naval surgeon who was stationed in Rabaul. Igusa wrote in his memoirs that the women continued to work through infection and severe discomfort, though they \"cried and begged for help\".\n\nDuring the last stand of Japanese forces in 1944–45, \"comfort women\" were often forced to commit suicide or were killed. At the Truk naval base, 70 \"comfort women\" were killed prior to the expected American assault as the Navy mistook the American air raid that destroyed Truk as the prelude to an American landing while during the Battle of Saipan \"comfort women\" were among those who committed suicide by jumping off the cliffs of Saipan. The Japanese government had told the Japanese colonists on Saipan that the American \"white devils\" were cannibals, and so the Japanese population preferred suicide to falling into the hands of the American \"white devils\". In Burma, there were cases of Korean \"comfort women\" committing suicide by swallowing cyanide pills or being killed by having a hand grenade tossed into their dug-outs. During the Battle of Manila, when Japanese sailors ran amok and simply killed everyone, there were cases of \"comfort women\" being killed, through does not seem to have any systematic policy of killing \"comfort women\". Japanese propaganda had it that the Anglo-American \"white devils\" were cannibals whose favorite food were Asians, and it is possible that many of the Asian \"comfort women\" may have actually believed this, and so preferred suicide to the supposed horrors of being eaten alive by the \"white devils\". British soldiers fighting in Burma often reported that the Korean \"comfort women\" whom they captured were astonished to learn that the British were not going to eat them. Ironically, given this claim, there were cases of starving Japanese troops cut off on remote Pacific islands or trapped in the jungles of Burma turning towards cannibalism, and there were at least several cases where \"comfort women\" in Burma and on Pacific islands were killed to provide protein for the Japanese Army.\n\nThe Japanese Army and Navy went to great lengths to avoid venereal diseases with large numbers of condoms being handed out for free. For example, documents show that in July 1943 the Army handed out 1,000 condoms for soldiers in Negri Sembilan and another 10,000 for soldiers in Perak. The \"comfort women\" were usually injected with terramycin or salvarsan every time after intercourse, which together with damage to the vagina caused by rape or rough sex were the causes of unusually high rates of sterility among the \"comfort women\". As the war went on and as the shortages caused by the sinking of almost the entire Japanese merchant marine by American submarines kicked in, medical care for the \"comfort women\" declined as dwindling medical supplies were reserved for the servicemen. As Japanese logistics broke down as the American submarines sunk one Japanese ship after another, condoms had to be washed and reused, reducing their effectiveness. In the Philippines, \"comfort women\" were billed by Japanese doctors if they required medical treatment. In many cases, \"comfort women\" who were seriously ill were abandoned to die alone.\n\nThe Survey of Korean Comfort Women Used by Japanese Soldiers said that 30% of the interviewed former Korean comfort women produced biological children and 20% adopted children after World War II.\n\nIn 1944, Allied forces captured twenty Korean comfort women and two Japanese comfort station owners in Burma and issued Report no. 49. According to the report, Korean girls were deceived into being used as comfort women by the Japanese; in 1942, there were about 800 girls trafficked from Korea to Burma in this manner of obtaining comfort women. In Confucian nations like Korea and China, where premarital sex is considered shameful, the subject of the \"comfort women\" was ignored for decades after 1945 as the victims were considered pariahs. In Confucian cultures, traditionally an unmarried woman must value her chastity above her own life, and any women who loses her virginity before marriage for whatever reason is expected to commit suicide; by choosing to live, the survivors made themselves into outcasts.\n\nIn 1973, a man named Kakou Senda wrote a book about the comfort women system that focused on Japanese participants. His book has been widely criticized as distorting the facts by both Japanese and South Korean historians. This was the first postwar mention of the comfort women system and became an important source for 1990s activism on the issue.\n\nThe first book written by a Korean on the subject of comfort women appeared in 1981. However, it was a plagiarism of a 1976 Japanese book by the zainichi author Kim Il-Myeon.\n\nIn 1989, the testimony of Seiji Yoshida was translated into Korean. His book was debunked as fraudulent by some Japanese and Korean journalists, and in May 1996 Yoshida admitted that his memoir was fictional, stating in an interview by Shūkan Shinchō that \"There is no profit in writing the truth in books. Hiding the facts and mixing them with your own assertions is something that newspapers do all the time too\". In August 2014, the Japanese newspaper \"Asahi Shimbun\" also retracted articles that the paper had published based on or including information from Yoshida, in large part because of pressure from conservative activists and organizations. Following the retraction, attacks from conservatives increased. Takashi Uemura, a journalist who wrote one of the retracted articles, was subject to similar attacks from conservatives, and his employer, Hokusei Gakuen University, was pressured to terminate his position.\n\nIn 1993, following multiple testimonies, the Kono Statement (named after then Chief Cabinet Secretary Yohei Kono) was issued by Japanese Government confirming that coercion was involved in seizing the comfort women. In 1999, the Japanese historian Kazuko Watanabe complained about a lack of sisterhood among Japanese women, citing a survey showing 50% of Japanese women did not believe in the stories of the \"comfort women\", charging that many Japanese simply regard other Asians as \"others\" whose feelings do not count. In 2007, the Japanese government issued a response to questions which had been posed to Prime Minister Abe about his position on the issue, concluding that \"No evidence was found that the Japanese army or the military officials seized the women by force.\" In 2014, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga formed a team to reexamine the background of the report. The review brought to light coordination between Japan and South Korea in the process of composing the Kono Statement and concluded that, at the request of Seoul, Tokyo stipulated coercion was involved in recruiting the women. After the review, Suga and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe stated that Japan continues to uphold the Kono Statement.\n\nIn 2014, China released documents it said were \"ironclad proof\" that the comfort women were forced to work as prostitutes against their will, including documents from the Japanese Kwantung Army military police corps archives and documents from the national bank of Japan's puppet regime in Manchuria.\n\nIn 1951, at the start of negotiations, the South Korean government initially demanded $364 million in compensation for Koreans forced into labor and military service during the Japanese occupation: $200 per survivor, $1,650 per death and $2,000 per injured person. In the final agreement reached in the 1965 treaty, Japan provided an $800 million aid and low-interest loan package over 10 years. Japan intended to directly compensate individuals, but the Korean government insisted on receiving the sum itself and \"spent most of the money on economic development, focusing on infrastructure and the promotion of heavy industry\".\n\nIn 1994, the Japanese government set up the public-private Asian Women's Fund (AWF) to distribute additional compensation to South Korea, the Philippines, Taiwan, the Netherlands, and Indonesia. Sixty one Korean, 13 Taiwanese, 211 Filipino, and 79 Dutch former comfort women were provided with a signed apology from the then prime minister Tomiichi Murayama, stating \"As Prime Minister of Japan, I thus extend anew my most sincere apologies and remorse to all the women who underwent immeasurable and painful experiences and suffered incurable physical and psychological wounds as comfort women.\" Many former Korean comfort women rejected the compensations on principle – although the Asian Women's Fund was set up by the Japanese government, its money came not from the government but from private donations, hence the compensation was not \"official\". Eventually, 61 former Korean comfort women accepted 5 million yen (approx. $42,000) per person from the AWF along with the signed apology, while 142 others received funds from the government of Korea. The fund was dissolved on March 31, 2007.\n\nThree Korean women filed suit in Japan in December 1991, around the time of the 50th anniversary of the Pearl Harbor attack, demanding compensation for forced prostitution. In 1992, documents which had been stored since 1958 when they were returned by United States troops and which indicated that the military had played a large role in operating what were euphemistically called \"comfort stations\" were found in the library of Japan's Self-Defense Agency. The Japanese Government admitted that the Japanese Army had forced tens of thousands of Korean women to have sex with Japanese soldiers during World War II. On January 14, 1992, Japanese Chief Government Spokesman Koichi Kato issued an official apology saying, \"We cannot deny that the former Japanese army played a role\" in abducting and detaining the \"comfort girls,\" and \"We would like to express our apologies and contrition\". Three days later on January 17, 1992, at a dinner given by South Korean President Roh Tae Woo, the Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told his host: \"We Japanese should first and foremost recall the truth of that tragic period when Japanese actions inflicted suffering and sorrow upon your people. We should never forget our feelings of remorse over this. As Prime Minister of Japan, I would like to declare anew my remorse at these deeds and tender my apology to the people of the Republic of Korea.\" He apologized again the following day in a speech before South Korea's National Assembly. On April 28, 1998, the Japanese court ruled that the Government must compensate the women and awarded them each.\n\nIn 2007, the surviving sex slaves wanted an apology from the Japanese government. Shinzō Abe, the prime minister at the time, stated on March 1, 2007, that there was no evidence that the Japanese government had kept sex slaves, even though the Japanese government had already admitted the use of coercion in 1993. On March 27 the Japanese parliament issued an official apology. On February 20, 2014, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said that the Japanese government may reconsider the study and the apology. However, Prime Minister Abe clarified on March 14, 2014, that he had no intention of renouncing or altering it.\n\nOn December 28, 2015, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and South Korean President Park Geun-hye reached a formal agreement to settle the dispute. Japan agreed to pay ¥1 billion (₩9.7 billion; $8.3 million) to a fund supporting surviving victims while South Korea agreed to refrain from criticizing Japan regarding the issue and to work to remove a statue memorializing the victims from in front of the Japanese embassy in Seoul. The announcement came after Japan's Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida met his counterpart Yun Byung-se in Seoul, and later Prime Minister Shinzo Abe phoned President Park Geun-hye to repeat an apology already offered by Kishida. The Korean government will administer the fund for the forty-six remaining elderly comfort women and will consider the matter \"finally and irreversibly resolved\". However, One of the trusted Korean news organization Hankyoreh expressed that it fails to include the requests from the survivals of sexual slavery about stating the Japanese government's legal responsibility for the state-level crime of enforcing a system of sexual slavery. It was also managed hasty handling on this crucial issue as previous Korean Government stressed the matter of legal responsibility, but it's removed on the agreement. The South Korean government did not attempt to collect the viewpoints on the issues from the women most directly affected by it—the survivors themselves. Concerning the review of the rushed deal between two countries, literally, Seoul and Tokyo fail to reach the breakthrough on comfort women issue during the 11th round of Foreign Ministry director-general level talks on 15 Dec 2015. Although the Japanese government and the Park Geun-hye administration claim it is the official, final agreement, several comfort women protested the issue of the agreement as they don't want to money, but they want to see sincere acknowledgement of the legal responsibility by the Japanese government. The co-representative of Support group to surviving women, expressed that the settlement with Japan doesn't reflect the will of the comfort women, they would vows to seek its invalidation by reviewing legal options.\n\nOn February 16, 2016, the United Nations' \"Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women\", Seventh and Eighth Periodic Reports, was held, with Shinsuke Sugiyama, Deputy Minister for Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Japan), reiterating the official and final agreement between Japan and South Korea to pay ¥1 billion. Sugiyama also restated the Japanese Government apology of that agreement: \"The issue of comfort women, with an involvement of the Japanese military authorities at that time, was a grave affront to the honor and dignity of large numbers of women, and the Government of Japan is painfully aware of responsibilities.\"\n\nIn Aug 2016, Twelve survivors of sexual enslavement by the Japanese military, filed suit against the government of South Korea, demanding that the government had nullified the victims’ individual rights to claim damages from Japan by signing an agreement not to demand further legal responsibility without consulting with the victims themselves. The deal also violated a 2011 Constitutional Court ruling obliging that the South Korean government “offer its cooperation and protection so that citizens whose human dignity and values have been violated through illegal actions perpetrated by Japan can invoke their rights to demand damages from Japan.”<ref name=\"http://english.hani.co.kr- 17 June 2018\" ></ref>\n\non 15 June 2018, Seoul Central District Court published the decision, the court announced that the intergovernmental comfort women agreement “certainly lacked transparency or was deficient in recognizing ‘legal responsibility’ and on the nature of the one billion yen provided by the Japanese government.” However, an audit of the process and content leading up to the agreement cannot be seen as discharging the plaintiffs’ right to claim damages.”\n\nOn 18 Aug 2018, United Nations rights experts and UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination; committee member Gay McDougall expressed that Japan should do more for sufferers of wartime sexual slavery. Mainstream archaeologists state maximum number 200,000 women were forced to serve in Japanese military brothels during World War II, mostly from Korea but also from other countries: China and the Philippines.\n\nThe novel \"My War Crime\", written by Seiji Yoshida in 1983, which played a major role in publicizing the issue of comfort women, was later found to be fiction, causing the \"Asahi Shimbun\" newspaper to publish several retractions and apologies to its readers, as recently as 2014.\n\nIn recent years, a number of Japanese sources have denied or minimized the issue of comfort women.\n\nA 2001 comic book, \"Neo Gomanism Manifesto Special – On Taiwan\" by Japanese author Yoshinori Kobayashi, depicts kimono-clad women lining up to sign up for duty before a Japanese soldier. Kobayashi's book contains an interview with Taiwanese industrialist Shi Wen-long, who stated that no women were forced to serve and that the women worked in more hygienic conditions compared to regular prostitutes because the use of condoms was mandatory.\n\nIn early 2001, in a controversy involving national public broadcaster NHK, what was supposed to be coverage of the Women's International War Crimes Tribunal on Japan's Military Sexual Slavery was heavily edited to reflect revisionist views. In 2014, the new president of NHK compared the wartime Japanese comfort women program to Asian brothels frequented by American troops, which western historians countered by pointing out the difference between the Japanese comfort stations, which forced women to have sex with Japanese troops, and Asian brothels, where women chose to be prostitutes for American troops.\n\nIn publications around 2007, Japanese historian and Nihon University professor Ikuhiko Hata estimates the number of comfort women to have been more likely between 10,000 and 20,000. Hata claims that \"none of [the comfort women] were forcibly recruited\".\n\nIn 2012, the former mayor of Osaka and co-leader of the Japan Restoration Party, Tōru Hashimoto initially maintained that \"there is no evidence that people called comfort women were taken away by violence or threat by the [Japanese] military\". He later modified his position, asserting that they became comfort women \"against their will\", still justifying their role during World War II as \"necessary\", so that soldiers could \"have a rest\".\n\nIn 2014, Foreign Minister Hirofumi Nakasone chaired a commission established to consider \"concrete measures to restore Japan's honor with regard to the comfort women issue\", despite the conflict of interest that his own father Yasuhiro Nakasone organized a \"comfort station\" in 1942 when he was a lieutenant paymaster in Japan's Imperial Navy.\n\nIn 2018 the Japan Times changed its description of the terms 'comfort woman' and 'forced labourer' causing a controversy among staff and readers.\n\nThe cause has long been supported beyond the victim nations, and associations like Amnesty International are campaigning in countries where governments have yet to support the cause, like in Australia, or New Zealand. Support in the United States continues to grow, particularly after the United States House of Representatives House Resolution 121 was passed on July 30, 2007, asking the Japanese government to redress the situation and to incorporate internationally accepted actual historical facts about this program into their educational system. In July 2012, then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, a strong advocate of the cause, denounced the use of the euphemism 'comfort women' for what should be referred to as 'enforced sex slaves'. The Obama Administration also addressed the need for Japan to do more to address the issue. In addition to calling attention to the issue, the American memorial statues erected in New Jersey in 2010 and California in 2013 show support for what has become an international cause.\n\nOn December 13, 2007, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on \"Justice for the 'Comfort Women' (sex slaves in Asia before and during World War II)\" calling on the Japanese government to apologise and accept legal responsibility for the coercion of young women into sexual slavery before and during WWII.\n\nIn 2014, Pope Francis met with seven former comfort women in South Korea. Also in 2014, the U.N. Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination called for Japan to, as the Committee's deputy head Anastasia Crickley put it, \"conclude investigations into the violations of the rights of ‘comfort women’ by the military and to bring to justice those responsible and to pursue a comprehensive and lasting resolution to these issues\". U.N. Human Rights Commissioner Navi Pillay had also spoken out in support of comfort women several times.\n\nIn the aftermath of the war, the women recalled bouts of physical and mental abuse that they had experienced while working in military brothels. In the Rorschach test, the women showed distorted perceptions, difficulty in managing emotional reactions and internalized anger. A 2011 clinical study found that comfort women are more prone to showing symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), even 60 years after the end of the war.\n\nThe last surviving victims have become public figures in Korea, where they are referred to as \"halmoni\", the affectionate term for \"grandmother\". There is a nursing home, called House of Sharing, for former comfort women in South Korea. China remains more at the testimony collection stage, particularly through the China \"Comfort Women\" Issue Research Center at Shanghai Normal University, sometimes in collaboration with Korean researchers. For other nations, the research and the interaction with victims is less advanced.\n\nAfter World War II, former Korean comfort women were afraid to reveal their past, because they are afraid of being disowned or ostracized further.\n\nIn August 2014, the Asahi Shimbun, Japan's second largest newspaper in circulation, retracted 16 articles published between 1982 and 1997. The articles were concerned with former imperial army officer Seiji Yoshida, who claimed he had forcibly taken Korean women to wartime Japanese military brothels from the Jeju island region in South Korea. Following the retraction of the articles, the newspaper also refused to publish an op-ed on the matter by Japanese journalist Akira Ikegami. The public response and criticism that ensued pushed the newspaper to nominate a third-party investigative committee headed by seven leading scholars, journalists and legal experts. The committee report dealt with the circumstances leading to the publication of Yoshida's false testimony and to the effect these publications had on Japan's image abroad and diplomatic relations with various countries. It found that the Asahi was negligent in publishing Yoshida's testimony, but that the reports on the testimony had \"limited\" effect on foreign media outlets and reports. On the other hand, the report found that Japanese officials comments on the issue had a far more detrimental effect on Japan's image and its diplomatic relations.\n\nOn December 1, 2015, the first memorial hall dedicated to Chinese comfort women was opened in Nanjing. It was built on a site of former comfort station run by the invading Japanese troops during World War II.\nThe memorial hall stands next to the Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall.\n\nIn June 2016, Research Center for Chinese Comfort Women was established at Shanghai Normal University. It is a museum that exhibits photographs and various items related to comfort women in China.\n\nEvery Wednesday, living comfort women, women's organizations, socio-civic groups, religious groups, and a number of individuals participate in the Wednesday Demonstrations in front of the Japanese Embassy in Seoul, sponsored by “The Korean Council for the Women Drafted for Military Sexual Slavery by Japan (KCWDMSS)”. It was first held on January 8, 1992, when Japan's Prime Minister, Miyazawa, visited the South Korea. In December 2011, a statue of a young woman was erected in front of the Japanese Embassy to honor the comfort women on the 1,000th Wednesday Demonstration. The Japanese government has repeatedly asked the South Korean government to have the statue taken down, but it has not been.\n\nOn 28 December 2015, the Japanese government claimed that the Korean government agreed the removal of the statue. As of 3 September 2016, the statue was still in place due to a majority of the South Korean population being opposed to the agreement. On 30 December 2016, another comfort woman statue identical to the one in front of the Japanese Embassy in Seoul was erected in front of the Japanese consulate in Busan, South Korea. As of 6 January 2017, the Japanese government is attempting to negotiate the removal of the statue. On May 11, 2017, newly elected South Korean President Moon Jae-in announced the agreement would not be enacted in its current stage and that negotiations for a deal between Japan and South Korea over the comfort women dispute had to start over.\n\nOn 30 June 2017, the local government of Busan enacted the legal foundation to protect the Statue of Peace by passing the relative ordinance. By reason of this, it has become difficult to shift the site or demolish the statue.\n\nOn 14 August 2018, South Korea held an unveiling ceremony for a monument memorializing Korean women forced to work in wartime brothels for the Japanese military, as the nation observed its first official \"comfort women\" memorial day.\n\nOn 21 November 2018, South Korea officially cancelled the 2015 agreement and shut down the Japan-funded comfort women foundation which was launched in July 2016 to finance the agreement's controversial settlement. This settlement received criticism after the ministry of former President Park Geun-hye refused to ask for consent from the comfort women before it was agreed to.\n\nThe House of Sharing is a nursing home for living comfort women. The House of Sharing was founded in June 1992 through funds raised by Buddhist organizations and various socio-civic groups and it moved to Gyeonggi-do, South Korea in 1998. The House of Sharing includes “The Museum of Sexual Slavery by Japanese Military” to spread the truth about the Japanese military's brutal abuse of comfort women and to educate descendants and the public.\n\nSome of the survivors, Kang Duk-kyung, Kim Soon-duk and Lee Yong-Nyeo, preserved their personal history through their drawings as a visual archive. Also, the director of the Center for Asian American Media, Dai Sil Kim-Gibson, made a comfort women video archive, a documentary film for K–12 through college level students. Feminist visual and video archives have promoted a place for solidarity between the victims and the public. It has served as a living site for the teaching and learning of women's dignity and human rights by bringing people together despite age, gender, borders, nationality, and ideologies.\n\nIn the Philippines, comfort women formed different groups, similar to the Korean survivors they are called \"Lolas\" (grandmothers). One group named \"Lila Pilipina\" (League of Filipino Women), which started in 1992 and is member of GABRIELA, a feminist organization, together with the Malaya Lolas (Free grandmothers) ask for a formal apology from the Japanese government, compensation, and the inclusion of the issue in the Japanese history textbooks. These groups also ask the Philippine government to back their claims against the Japanese government. These groups have taken legal actions against Japan, then against their own government to back their claims and, , planned to take the case the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and Children (CEDAW).\n\nThese groups have made demonstrations in front of the Japanese embassy in Manila in many occasions, have given testimonies to Japanese tourists in Manila.\n\nSimilar to the Korean grandmothers, Filipino \"Lolas\" have their own Grandmother house with a collection of their testimonies. Also two of them have published two autobiographic books: \"Comfort Woman: Slave of Destiny\" by Rosa Henson and \"The Hidden Battle of Leyte: The Picture Diary of a Girl Taken by the Japanese Military\" by Remedios Felias. This second book was written in the 1990s, after Lila Filipina was formed.\n\nIn Bulacan, a villa house Bahay na Pula was seized by Japanese soldiers during WWII and it was used as comfort station where Filipino women were raped and held as comfort women. Today, the empty house is still standing as a memorial for the forgotten Filipino comfort women.\n\nSince the 1990s, Taiwanese survivors have been bringing to light the comfort woman issue in Taiwanese society, and gaining support from women's rights activists and civil groups. Their testimony and memories have been documented by newspapers, books, and documentary films.\n\nSurvivors' claims against the Japan government have been backed by the Taipei Women's Rescue Foundation (TWRF) a non-profit organization helping women against violence, and sexual violence. This organization gives legal and psychological support to Taiwanese comfort women, and also helps in the recording of testimony and doing scholarly research. In 2007, this organization was responsible for promoting awareness in society, by creating meetings in universities and high schools where survivors gave their testimonies to students and the general public. TWRF has produced exhibitions that give survivors the opportunity to be heard in Taipei, and also in the Women's Active Museum on War and Peace, based in Tokyo.\n\nThanks to this increasing awareness in society, and with the help of TWRF, Taiwanese comfort women have gained the support their government, which on many occasions has asked the Japanese government for apologies and compensation.\n\nIn November 2014, \"Song of the Reed\", a documentary film directed by Wu Hsiu-ching and produced by TWRF, won the International Gold Panda documentary award.\n\nOn August 14, 2018, the first 'comfort women' statue in Taiwan was unveiled in the city of Tainan. The statue symbolizes women forced to work in wartime brothels for the Japanese military. The bronze statue portrays a girl raising both hands to the sky to express her helpless resistance to suppression and silent protest, according to its creator.\n\nOn September 6, 2018, it was reported that Japanese right-wing activist kicked the comfort woman statue in Tainan.\n\nIn 2010, the first American monument dedicated to the comfort women was established in Palisades Park, New Jersey.\n\nIn 2013, a \"comfort women\" memorial statue was established in Glendale, California. The statue has been subject to multiple legal attempts to remove it. A federal judge dismissed a 2014 lawsuit for the statue's removal.\n\nOn August 16, 2014, a new memorial statue honoring the comfort women was unveiled in Southfield, Michigan.\n\nIn June 2017, Brookhaven, Georgia unveiled a statue memorializing the Comfort Women of World War II.\n\nOn September 22, 2017, in an initiative led by the local Chinese-American community, San Francisco erected a privately funded memorial to Korean activist Kim Hak-sun and the comfort women of World War II. Some Japanese and Japanese-American opponents of the initiative argue the statue would promote hatred and anti-Japanese sentiment throughout the community and object to the statue singling out Japan. Tōru Hashimoto, the mayor of Osaka, Japan, objected that the memorial should be \"broadened to memorialize all the women who have been sexually assaulted and abused by soldiers of countries in the world\". Supporting the statue, Heather Knight of the San Francisco Chronicle pointed to the San Francisco Holocaust Memorial and the landmarked Japanese internment camps in California as evidence that Japan is \"not being singled out\". In protest over the statue, Osaka ended the sister city relationship with San Francisco that had been established since 1957. When the city accepted the statue as public property in 2018, the mayor of Osaka sent a 10-page letter to the mayor of San Francisco, complaining of inaccuracies and unfairly singling out Japan for criticism.\n\nA 2010 proposal to create a memorial in Koreatown, Fort Lee, New Jersey, has been controversial and remains undecided.\n\nA number of former comfort women had come forward and spoken out about their plight of being a comfort woman:\n\n\n\"Spirits' Homecoming\" is a film about comfort women.\n\n\"Thirty Two\" is a 2014 documentary about a Chinese comfort woman and her half-Japanese son from rape.\n\n\"Twenty Two\" is a 2017 documentary about the lives of 22 surviving comfort women in China.\n\n\"Herstory\" is a 2018 South Korean drama film based on a real-life story of three comfort women and seven other victims during the \"Gwanbu Trial\" which took place in Shimonoseki in 1992.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOnline sources\n\nFurther reading\n\n\nAcademic research\n\nJapanese official statements\n\nUnited States historical documents\n"}
{"id": "58991080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58991080", "title": "Effendi Simbolon", "text": "Effendi Simbolon\n\nEffendi Muara Sakti Simbolon (born 1 December 1964) is an Indonesian politician of PDI-P who has been a member of the People's Representative Council since 2004. Despite coming from the same political party, Simbolon was a noted critic of president Joko Widodo, especially in Widodo's first years as president.\nSimbolon was born in Banjarmasin, South Kalimantan on 1 December 1964. He received elementary education in Banjarbaru, before moving to Jakarta where he studied in a state-funded middle school. After completing his high school at SMAN 3 Jakarta, he graduated with a bachelors in corporate management from Jayabaya University in 1988. Later on, after entering public office, he studied for a masters in politics and another degree in international relations from Padjadjaran University.\n\nSimbolon is of Batak descent, and is the chairman of the Simbolon clan's association (\"Punguan Simbolon Baruna Indonesia\").\nPrior to being elected into office, Simbolon worked as a consultant for a fertiliser company and later in various management positions.\n\nSimbolon was first elected into the People's Representative Council following the 2004 legislative election. Simbolon was reelected in the 2009 legislative election after winning 59,718 votes. He was part of committee investigating the bailout of , and called for the resignation of vice president Boediono (who was governor of Bank Indonesia when the bailout happened), in addition to the firing of involved ministers including Finance Minister Sri Mulyani.\n\nLater in his term, Simbolon ran in North Sumatra's 2013 gubernatorial election, but lost. Later on in 2017, he declared his intent to run in the 2018 gubernatorial election, but ended up not running.\n\nFollowing the 2014 legislative election, Simbolon was elected for his third term in DPR, winning 89,028 votes. He became a member of the body's first commission, which handles defences and foreign relations. In 2018, a bullet that went astray from a nearby firing range ended up in his office at the DPR/MPR Building.\n\nWithin PDI-P, Simbolon was appointed as head of resources and funding of the party's central committee in 2010, though he did not retain a position in that committee for the 2015-2020 period.\nEarly into new president Joko Widodo's tenure, Simbolon attacked a policy removing fuel subsidies, despite threats of being sanctioned by his own party. \n\nIn January 2015, Simbolon once more criticised the government of Widodo, and called for his impeachment. Simbolon remarked that Widodo's government was \"turbulent\", and \"did not have a clear system\". He commented then that Widodo will be impeached \"within months\". Simbolon again called for Widodo to resign in September 2015 for economic issues and the declining value of the Indonesian rupiah. Following an shooting of three police officers in Puncak Regency by Free Papua Movement militants, Simbolon blamed Widodo for relaxing visa requirements and not being sufficiently harsh towards the separatism movement. During a forum in 2015, Simbolon remarked that \"Jokowi is not [part of] PDI-P, and was just using PDI-P as a vehicle\".\n\nFurther criticism continued when Widodo reshuffled his cabinet in 2016, including several ministers which was part of the previous government - resulting in Simbolon attacking it as a \"recycled cabinet\". Simbolon also openly disagreed with Widodo's decision to grant amnesty to Acehnese rebel leader Din Minimi in 2016. However, in 2017, Simbolon praised Widodo's government, though he added that the Widodo administration's actions then were different compared to its first two years.\n"}
{"id": "58084136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58084136", "title": "Efunsetan Aniwura", "text": "Efunsetan Aniwura\n\nChief Efunsetan Aniwura (1790s - 1874) was the second Iyalode of Ibadan. Revered as a successful merchant and trader, her impact encompassed the political, military, economic and religious spheres of Ibadan. She is famous for being arguably the most powerful - and certainly one of the wealthiest - Yoruba women that ever lived. She has been described by historians as an authoritarian leader who often utilized capital punishment on erring slaves. This has been attributed to the psychological breakdown due to the death of her only daughter, and her inability to procreate afterwards.\n\nBorn in Abeokuta in the 1790s (or 1820s), Aniwura was a migrant from Egbaland in present day Ogun State. Her father, Chief Ogunrin, was a warlord from Ikija while her mother was from Ife. Her entrepreneurial drive is reported to have originated when her mother, who was a petty trader, took her to the market with her. She was married multiple times, and had a child, whom she lost at birth. This event has been the subject of numerous historical writings, and has been attributed to influencing the latter parts of her life, both positively (in terms of focus) and negatively (in terms of ruthlessness).\n\nAccording to Olawale Idowu, Aniwura's decision to migrate to Ibadan was mainly for two reasons: Firstly, at the time, her cousin was a prominent leader in the city. Secondly, due to the enterprising nature of the town at the time in comparison to other locations, she could start a successful business there. She is reputed to have had about two thousand slaves and multiple farms, exporting agricultural produce to Porto-Novo, Badagry and Ikorodu. Her major line were in tobacco and slave trading. She also manufactured a local cosmetic product, \"Kijipa\", that was transported to America for use. Her difficulty in child-bearing led her not only to be diligent in her business, but also become emotionally unstable as having a successor was seen as a major determinant of affluence at that time. Due to this, she was often depressed and it became evident in her style of leadership. She created rules that ensured no slave in her household could get pregnant, or get anyone pregnant, and instituted death as the penalty for defaulters. Isola (2010) revealed that during her lifetime, she had ordered the decapitation of 41 of her slaves.\n\nBy the 1860s, she was made the second Iyalode of Ibadan. She was also made a patron of the Anglican Church in Ibadan for her involvement in strengthening Christianity in the community.\n\nShe was deposed as Iyalode by Aare Latoosa on May 1, 1874 for politically motivated allegations, despite paying all the fines levied against her. \n\nHer authority within the community and opposition to the political views of the Ibadan de facto ruler, the Aare Ona Kakanfo Latoosa, led him to plot to execute her. This proved to be difficult due to her political position among the high chiefs. He paid-off Kumuyilo, her adopted son, to betray her and lead her to the place of execution. There are many theories on why Latoosa wanted Aniwura out of Ibadan. While some felt it was motivated by sexism and jealousy, other historians believe it was simply because the city became too dependent on her - especially for military equipment, which was gotten on credit. Some writers argue that her failure to abide by the regulations of the Aare was what led him to get angry with her.\n\nAniwura was killed in her sleep by two of her slaves in 1874. They had been instructed to do so by her adopted son, Kumuyilo. Kuwuyilo was in turn bribed by Aare Latoosa, the ruler of Ibadan at the time. The motivation was posited to be that Latoosa felt threatened by her wealth and disobedience towards him.\n\nChief Aniwura got mainstream attention after being the subject of a play by Professor Akinwunmi Isola. \n\nAniwura's statue is placed at the center of Challenge roundabout, a major point within the modern city of Ibadan. \n\nShe has also been the subject of some Nigerian film productions.\n\n"}
{"id": "16615091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16615091", "title": "Family of Gautama Buddha", "text": "Family of Gautama Buddha\n\nThe Buddha was born into a noble family of the kshatriya varna in Lumbini, Nepal in 563 BCE. He was called Siddhartha Gautama in his childhood. His father was king Suddhodana, leader of the Shakya clan in what was the growing state of Kosala, and his mother was queen Maya Devi. According to Buddhist legend, the baby exhibited the marks of a great man. A prophecy indicated that if the child stayed at home he was destined to become a world ruler. If the child left home, however, he would become a universal spiritual leader. To make sure the boy would be a great king and world ruler, his father isolated him in his palace and he was raised by his mother's younger sister, Maha Pajapati, after his mother died just seven days after childbirth.\n\nSeparated from the world, he later married Yashodhara (Yaśodhara was the daughter of King Suppabuddha and Amita), and together they had one child, a son, Rāhula. Both Yashodhara and Rāhul later became disciples of Buddha.\n\nHis first cousin, by his father, Ananda, joined the Buddha as his attendant.\n\nMuch of the information on Suddhodana comes from Buddhist legend and scripture. He is believed to be a leader of the Shakya clan, who lived within the state of Kosala, on the northern border of Ancient India. Although in Buddhist literature he is said to be a hereditary monarch, he is now believed to have been an elected head of a tribal confederacy. Suddhodana's father was Sinahana.\n\nSuddhodana was said to be greatly troubled by the departure of his son and is reported in Buddhist scriptures to have sent 10,000 messengers to plead with Gautama to return. After the Buddha preached the dharma to the messengers, they were all ordained into the sangha. Later a friend of Suddhodana named Kaludayi invited the Buddha to return, at the request of Suddhodana. The Buddha also preached the dharma to him and shubhansu was later ordained as a monk.\n\nAfter this request from his father Gautama returned to his father's kingdom where he preached dharma to him. Gautama later returned again to his father's kingdom to see his father's death. Suddhodana became an arahant.\n\nMaya was the mother of the Buddha and was from the Koliyan clan. Maya was born in Devadaha, in ancient Nepal. She was married to her cousin King Suddhodana, who ruled in the kingdom of Kapilavastu.\n\nIn Buddhist texts, a white elephant was said to have entered her side during a dream. When she awoke she found that she was pregnant. As it was traditional to give birth in the homeland of the father, Queen Maya journeyed to Devadaha. However she was forced to give birth en route, in the Lumbini grove. It is said that the Devas presided over the birth and that two streams, one cool and one hot, flowed down from the heavens.\n\nMaya died seven days after the birth of her son, whom she had named Siddhartha or \"he who achieves his aim.\" She is said, in Buddhist scriptures, to have been reborn in Tusita, where her son later visited her, paid respects and taught the dharma to her.\n\nĀnanda was the primary attendant of the Buddha and one of his ten principal disciples. Among the Buddha's many disciples, Ānanda stood out for having the best memory. Most of the texts of the early Buddhist \"Sutta-Piṭaka\" (Pāli; ) are attributed to his recollection of the Buddha's teachings during the First Buddhist Council. For that reason, he is known as the \"Treasurer of the Dhamma\", with \"Dhamma\" () referring to the Buddha's teaching. In Early Buddhist Texts, Ānanda is the first cousin of the Buddha. Although the texts do not agree on most things about Ānanda's early life, they do agree that Ānanda is ordained as a monk and that Puṇṇa Mantāniputta () becomes his teacher. Twenty years in the Buddha's ministry, Ānanda becomes the attendant of the Buddha, when the Buddha selects him for this job. Ānanda performs his duties with great devotion and care, and acts as an intermediary between the Buddha and the laypeople, as well as the Saṅgha (monastic community). He accompanies the Buddha for the rest of his life, acting not only as an assistant, but also a secretary and a mouthpiece.\n\nScholars are skeptical about the historicity of many events in Ānanda's life, especially the First Council, and consensus about this has yet to be established. A traditional account can be drawn from early texts, commentaries, and post-canonical chronicles. Ānanda has an important role in establishing the order of \"bhikkhunis\", when he requests the Buddha on behalf of the latter's foster-mother Mahāpajāpati Gotamī () to allow her to be ordained. Ānanda also accompanies the Buddha in the last year of his life, and therefore is witness to many tenets and principles that the Buddha conveys and establishes before his death, including the well-known principle that the Buddhist community should take his teaching and discipline as their refuge, and that the Buddha will not appoint a new leader. The final period of the Buddha's life also shows that Ānanda is still very much attached to the Buddha's person, and he witnesses the Buddha's passing with great sorrow.\n\nShortly after the Buddha's death, the First Council is convened, and Ānanda manages to attain enlightenment just before the council starts, which is a requirement. He has a historical role during the council as the living memory of the Buddha, reciting many of the Buddha's discourses and checking them for accuracy. During the same council, however, he is chastised by Mahākassapa () and the rest of the Saṅgha for allowing women to be ordained and failing to understand or respect the Buddha at several crucial moments. Ānanda continues to teach until the end of his life, passing on his spiritual heritage to his pupils Sāṇavāsī () and Majjhantika (), among others, who later assume a leading role in the Second and Third Councils. Ānanda dies in 463 BCE, and \"stūpas\" (momuments) are erected at the river where he dies.\n\nĀnanda is one of the most loved figures in Buddhism. Ānanda is known for his memory, erudition and compassion, and is often praised by the Buddha for these matters. He functions as a foil to the Buddha, however, in that he still has worldly attachments and is not yet enlightened, as opposed to the Buddha. In the Sanskrit textual traditions, Ānanda is widely considered the patriarch of the Dhamma, who stands in a spiritual lineage, receiving the teaching from Mahākassapa and passing them on to his own pupils. Ānanda has been honored by \"bhikkhunis\" since early medieval times for his merits in establishing the nun's order. In recent times, the composer Richard Wagner wrote a draft for a libretto about Ānanda, which was made into the opera Wagner Dream by Jonathan Harvey in 2007.\n\nDevadatta was the maternal first cousin (or in some accounts paternal first cousin) of the Buddha. He was ordained into the sangha along with his brothers and friends and their barber, Upāli, when the Buddha preached to the Shakyas in Kapilavastu.\n\nFor a time, Devadatta was highly respected among the sangha. Shariputra is said to have sung the praises of Devadatta in Rajagaha. After some time, Devadatta developed siddhis and his intention is said to have been corrupted. After gaining these siddhis, Devadatta attempted to kill the Buddha on several occasions, commonly thought to be motivated by jealousy of the Buddha's power. He is reported to have rolled a boulder toward the Buddha, piercing his flesh, and to have incited an elephant to charge at the Buddha.\n\nDevadatta then attempted to split the sangha into two, with one faction led by himself and the other by the Buddha. However, this attempt failed as all of his converts returned to the Buddha's sangha.\n\nDevadatta was reputedly remorseful toward the Buddha late in life. He is reported to have walked to the monastery where the Buddha was staying to apologize to him but, as a result of bad karma, he was swallowed up into the earth and reborn in Avici before he could ask for forgiveness.\n\nNanda was a half-brother of the Buddha; the son of King Suddhodana and Maha Prajapati Gautami. Nanda was to be married to a princess named Janapadakalyani but abandoned her to join the sangha. Nanda persevered and became an arhat.\n\nMaha Pajapati Gotami (Sanskrit: Maha Prajapati Gautami) was the youngest daughter of King Suppabuddha and Queen Amita. She was married to King Suddhodana with her elder sister Mahamaya (or Mayadevi). When her sister died after the birth of Siddartha Gautama she took Siddartha into her care. She also gave birth to a son, Nanda, to King Suddodhana.\n\nAfter the death of King Suddhodana, Maha Prajapati journeyed to find the Buddha. When she found him, she petitioned the Buddha, through Ananda, to allow women to enter the sangha as bhikkhuni. After many refusals, the Buddha finally agreed to allow women to enter the sangha as long as they accepted eight additional vinaya. These were:\n\nMaha Pajapati is said to have given the Buddha a robe made of fine cloth. The Buddha refused it, saying it was too elaborate and would cause the sangha to degenerate. Later Maha Pajapati became an arahant.\n\nRāhula (Pāli and Sanskrit) was the only son of Siddhārtha Gautama, and his wife and princess Yaśodharā. He is mentioned in numerous Buddhist texts, from the early period onward. Accounts about Rāhula indicate a mutual impact between Prince Siddhārtha's life and those of his family members. According to the Pāli tradition, Rāhula is born on the day of Prince Siddhārta's renunciation, and is therefore named \"Rāhula\", meaning a fetter on the path to enlightenment. According to the Mūlasarvāstivāda tradition, and numerous other later sources, however, Rāhula is only \"conceived\" on the day of Prince Siddhārtha, and is born six years later, when Prince Siddhārtha becomes enlightened as the Buddha. This long gestation period is explained by bad karma from previous lives of both Yaśodharā and of Rāhula himself, although more naturalistic reasons are also given. As a result of the late birth, Yaśodharā needs to prove that Rāhula is really Prince Siddhārtha's son, which she eventually does successfully by an act of truth. Historian has argued that Prince Siddhārtha conceived Rāhula and waited for his birth, to be able to leave the palace with the king and queen's permission, but Orientalist considered it more likely that Rāhula was born after Prince Siddhārtha left his palace.\n\nBetween seven to fifteen years after Rāhula is born, the Buddha returns to Kapilavastu, where Yaśodharā has Rāhula ask the Buddha for the throne of the Śākya clan. The Buddha responds by having Rāhula ordain as the first Buddhist novice monk. He teaches the young novice about truth, self-reflection, and not-self, eventually leading to Rāhula's enlightenment. Although early accounts state that Rāhula dies before the Buddha does, later tradition has it that Rāhula is one of the disciples that outlives the Buddha, guarding the Buddha's dispensation until the rising of the next Buddha. Rāhula is known in Buddhist texts for his eagerness for learning, and was honored by novice monks and nuns throughout Buddhist history. His accounts have led to a perspective in Buddhism of seeing children as hindrances to the spiritual life on the one hand, and as people with potential for enlightenment on the other hand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24736802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24736802", "title": "Frances Parthenope Verney", "text": "Frances Parthenope Verney\n\nFrances Parthenope Verney ( Nightingale; Naples, 19 April 1819 – Claydon House, Buckinghamshire 12 May 1890) was an English writer and journalist.\n\nParthenope was born in Naples, Italy and was named after its Greek predecessor, \"Parthenope\". She was the oldest daughter and child of William Nightingale and his wife, Frances Smith. After her parent's three-year tour in Italy, Parthenope and her sister Florence moved to Embley Park, their father's estate in Hampshire, England. During their childhood, they received numerous visits from cousins and distinguished guests. Parthenope and her sister were educated at home by a governess, although their father later taught them Greek, Latin, German, French, Italian, history and philosophy. Despite being less scholarly than her sister, Parthenope was fluent in French and developed a love for literature and art.\n\nOn 24 June 1858, Parthenope married her sister's rejected suitor, Harry Verney, 2nd Baronet, an MP for Buckingham, who was also a supporter of liberal causes and the landowner of Claydon House in Middle Claydon, Buckinghamshire. Parthenope soon turned Claydon House into a salon for people of talent, and frequently visited her tenants.\n\nParthenope was an active supporter of her sister's work during the Crimean War. As Lady Verney, she was responsible for extensively remodelling Claydon House.\n\nIn later years, the two sisters lived near each other on South Street, London.\n\nLady Verney wrote stories and articles for \"Fraser's Magazine\", \"Cornhill Magazine\", and \"Macmillan's Magazine\". She also published several novels and a two volume book, \"Peasant Properties and Other Selected Essays\". After her death two collections of her works were published: \"Essays and Tales\" and \"The Grey Pool and Other Stories\". Her work on the Verney family papers was completed and published by Margaret Verney as \"Memoirs of the Verney Family during the Seventeenth Century\". She was against Florence's idea of nursing at first.\n\nShe died in May 1890 aged 71 at Claydon House, the family seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "41104881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41104881", "title": "Francisco Pelliza", "text": "Francisco Pelliza\n\nFrancisco Pelliza (1792-1879) was an Argentine military, patriot officer who fought in the Argentine War of Independence.\n\nFrancisco Pelliza was born in Buenos Aires, son of Luis Pelliza and María Molina, belonging to a Creole family from Buenos Aires. He married at the Buenos Aires Cathedral, on September 12, 1812, with María de los Santos Fernández Castro, daughter of Ramón de los Santos Fernández and Encarnación Molina, belonging to a distinguished family. Pelliza and his wife were parents of several children, including Manuela Pelliza (born in 1812), married on August 17, 1826 in Santos Lugares to Sinforoso Camilo Canaveris (1808-1872), son of María de los Ángeles Rodríguez and Manuel Canaveris, a Lieutenant who served in the Regiment of Patricians.\n\nThe founder of the Pelliza family was Domingo Pelliza, a Genoese merchant who had traveled to Spain in 1738. This family was related to the , a militia officer, born in Biscay, and founder of San Isidro, a city in the Buenos Aires Province.\n\nTwo members of the Pelliza family were related to the Pueyrredón family. José María Pelliza Gómez Rospigliosi (Colonel of the Argentine army) was married to Virginia Pueyrredón Sánchez, daughter of Juan Martín de Pueyrredón and Juana Sánchez. His daughter, Virginia Pelliza Pueyrredón was married to her relative Mariano Aurelio Pelliza, son of Francisco María Pelliza and his second wife Francisca Burgos.\n\nFrancisco Pelliza did his elementary studies in the Colegio Real de San Carlos. He began his military career during the first British invasions of the River Plate, serving in the Regiment of Patricians. He was graduated as Ensign of the Patrician Regiment on July 30, 1808, then serving as second lieutenant of the same regiment from January 10, 1809. That same year the Regiment of Patricians under the command of Cornelio Saavedra took part in the actions against the rebel troops of Martín de Álzaga, who had risen up against the Viceroy Liniers (Mutiny of Álzaga). After the May Revolution, was confirmed as officer of the Patricians by the new authorities, taking part of the first battles produced in the War for Independence.\n\nIn 1812 Francisco Pelliza served as Lieutenant in the Army of the North commanded by Manuel Belgrano. Under the command of General Belgrano, he participated in the battles Tucuman, Salta, Vilcapugio and Ayohuma. On 14, November 1813, Pelliza was taken prisoner at the Battle of Ayohuma. He was imprisoned until 1820, when he was released in a prisoner exchange by General José de San Martin. In 1821, Pelliza was promoted to Captain, serving in the Escolta de Húsares.\n\nFrancisco Pelliza retired from the Army with the rank of Sergeant major. In 1831, he was appointed to occupy the post of Chief of Campaña (Alcalde) in the town of Cañuelas (Buenos Aires Province). He and his family were active members of Freemasonry in the Río de La Plata.\n"}
{"id": "41207491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41207491", "title": "Internally displaced Palestinians", "text": "Internally displaced Palestinians\n\nInternally displaced Palestinians, also Internally displaced persons in Israel and Palestine, are Palestinian IDPs who fled or were expelled from their home in Mandatory Palestine by Jewish or Israeli forces, before and during the 1948 Arab-Israeli war, but who remained within the area that became the state of Israel. Palestinian IDPs in Israel are also referred to as present absentees. The term applies to the IDP's descendants too.\n\nAccording to estimates from Palestinian NGO BADIL, there are 384,200 IDPs in Israel and 334,600 IDPs in the Palestinian territories.\n\nIn 1950, 46,000 out of the 156,000 Israeli Arabs in Israel were considered Present absentees.\n\nIDPs are not permitted to live in the homes they formerly lived in, even if they were in the same area, the property still exists, and they can show that they own it. They are regarded as absent by the Israeli government because they were absent from their homes on a particular day, even if they did not intend to leave them for more than a few days, and even if they left involuntarily.\n\nIf the definition is restricted to those displaced in the 1948 war and its immediate aftermath and their descendants, some 274,000 Arab citizens of Israel - or 1 in 4 Palestinians in Israel - are internally displaced Palestinians.\n\nThe Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre estimated in 2007 that 150,000-420,000 internally displaced persons were living in Israel. The vast majority are Muslim (90%) and some 10% are Christian. There are no Druze among them \"since no Druze village was destroyed in the 1948 war and no Druze left their settlements permanently.\" Organizations defending the rights of Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel also generally include the 110,000 Bedouin forced to move in a closed area under military rule in the Negev in 1949 in their estimates of internally displaced Palestinians. Other internally displaced persons included in these counts are those who were displaced by ongoing home demolitions enacted against unlicensed structures or in unrecognized villages. Estimates based on this broader definition place the total population of IDPs at anywhere between 250,000 - 420,000 people.\n\nIn 1950, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) estimated that 46,000 of the 156,000 Palestinians who remained inside the borders demarcated as Israel by the 1949 Armistice Agreements were internally displaced refugees.\n\nAs it was for most other Palestinian refugees, the homes and properties of internally displaced Palestinians were placed under the control of a government body, the Custodian of Absentees' Property via legislation that includes the \"1948 Emergency Regulation Concerning Absentee Property\" (a temporary measure) and the \"1950 Absentee Property Law\".\n\nUnlike other Palestinian refugees, the internally displaced Palestinians and others who remained inside what became Israel were made citizens by the Citizenship Law of July 1952. That same year Israel requested that UNRWA transfer responsibility for registering and caring for internally displaced persons to Israel and basic humanitarian assistance was provided to the internally displaced for a time.\n\nMilitary administrative rule (1948–1966) restricted the movement of Arab citizens of Israel, and it combined with the Absentees' Property Laws to prevent internally displaced citizens from physically returning to their properties to reclaim their homes. According to the Absentees' Property Laws, \"absentees\" are non-Jewish residents of Palestine who had left their usual places of residence for any place inside or outside the country after the adoption of the partition of Palestine resolution by the UN. Under these laws, \"absentee\" property owners were required to prove their \"presence\" in order to gain recognition of their ownership rights by the Israeli government. However, all ownership rights of \"absentees\" belong to the government-appointed Custodian of Absentee Property, and any person including the \"absentee\" owner himself found occupying, building, or being \"present\" on such properties would be violating the law and risk expulsion and demolition.\n\nSome villagers like those of Ghassibiya, Bir'im and Iqrit made petitions to the Israeli High Court to have their property rights recognized which were upheld in the 1950s, but they were physically prevented from reclaiming their properties by military administrative authorities who refused to abide by the court rulings and declared the villages closed military zones.\n\nBecause most internally displaced Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel were counted as absent, even though present inside the Israeli state, they are also commonly referred to as \"present absentees\".\n\nToday the internally displaced Bedouins live in 39-46 unrecognized villages in the Negev and the Galilee, while the remaining internally displaced Palestinians live in some 80 towns and villages in the Galilee such as Ein Hawd. There is also the village of Ein Rafa near Jerusalem.\n\nHalf of the populations in the two largest Arab towns in Israel, Nazareth and Umm al-Fahm, are made up of internally displaced refugees from neighbouring towns and villages destroyed in 1948.\n\nThe Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre estimated in July 2015 that there are at least 263,500 IDPs in Occupied Palestine.\n\nA few books focus on Palestinian internal refugees in Israel and internally displaced Palestinians across the Green Line.\n\nIn 1991, Israeli writer and peace activist David Grossman conducted several interviews with Palestinian citizens of Israel. These were published in a book called in . The English version was titled \"Sleeping on a Wire: Conversations with Palestinians in Israel\".\n\nAs Nur Masalha puts it in his introduction: \"Acquiring the paradoxical title of present absentees, the internally displaced had their property and homes taken by the state, making them refugees and exiles within their own homeland.\" The book uses oral history and interviews with internal refugees to examine Palestinian identity and memory, indigenous rights, international protection, the right of return, and a just solution in Palestine/Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1747821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1747821", "title": "Jill Stein", "text": "Jill Stein\n\nJill Ellen Stein (born May 14, 1950) is an American physician, activist, and perennial candidate. She was the Green Party's nominee for President of the United States in the 2012 and 2016 elections and candidate for governor of Massachusetts in 2002 and 2010. \n\nStein was born in Chicago, Illinois, the daughter of Gladys (\"née\" Wool) and Joseph Stein. She was raised in Highland Park, Illinois. Her parents were descended from Russian Jews, and Stein was raised in a Reform Jewish household, attending Chicago's North Shore Congregation Israel. She now considers herself agnostic.\n\nIn 1973, Stein graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Harvard College, where she studied psychology, sociology, and anthropology. She then attended Harvard Medical School and graduated in 1979. After graduating from Harvard Medical School, Stein practiced internal medicine for 25 years at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Simmons College Health Center, and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, which are all located in the Boston area. She also served as an instructor of medicine at Harvard Medical School.\n\nAs a medical doctor, Stein became increasingly concerned about the connection between people's health and the quality of their local environment, and decided to turn to activism in 1998, when she began protesting the \"Filthy Five\" coal plants in Massachusetts. Since 1998, she has served on the board of the Greater Boston chapter of Physicians for Social Responsibility. She received Clean Water Action's \"Not in Anyone's Backyard Award\" in 1998 and its \"Children's Health Hero Award\" in 2000, Toxic Action Center's \"Citizen Award\" in 1999, and Salem State College's \"Friend of the Earth Award\" in 2004.\n\nStein coauthored two reports by the Greater Boston Physicians for Social Responsibility, \"In Harm's Way: Toxic Threats to Child Development\" (2000), and \"Environmental Threats to Healthy Aging\" (2009). Stein's official biography states that the reports have been widely cited and translated into four languages, and the Physicians for Social Responsibility website lists endorsements from six experts on public health. The \"In Harm's Way\" report was republished in the peer-reviewed \"Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics\" in 2002.\n\nStein has said that she left the Democratic party and joined the Green Party when \"the Democratic Party killed campaign finance reform in my state\".\n\nStein is a former elected member of the Lexington Town Meeting, the local legislative body in Lexington, Massachusetts. She was elected to two three-year terms, but resigned during her second term to run for governor.\n\nStein was the Green-Rainbow Party candidate for governor of Massachusetts in 2002 and finished third in a field of five candidates, with 76,530 votes (3.5%). After her debate performances received good reviews, supporters of the Democratic nominee purchased the rights to jillstein.org.\n\nFollowing her third-place results in the 2002 Massachusetts gubernatorial election, Stein ran for state representative in 2004 for the 9th Middlesex District, which included portions of Waltham and Lexington. She received 3,911 votes (21.3%) in a three-way race, ahead of the Republican candidate but far behind Democratic incumbent Thomas M. Stanley.\n\nAt the Green-Rainbow Party state convention on March 4, 2006, Stein was nominated for Secretary of the Commonwealth. In a two-way race with the three-term incumbent, Democrat Bill Galvin, she received 353,551 votes (18%).\n\nLexington, Massachusetts has a town meeting-style government. Stein was elected to the Town Meeting Seat, Precinct 2 (Lexington, Massachusetts) in March 2005 local elections. She finished first of 16 candidates running for seven seats, receiving 539 votes (20.6%). Stein was reelected in 2008, finishing second of 13 vying for eight seats.\n\nOn February 8, 2010, Stein announced her candidacy for governor on the steps of the Massachusetts State House in Boston. Her running mate was Richard P. Purcell, a surgery clerk and ergonomics assessor from Holyoke. In May, Stein opened her campaign office in Boston's Dorchester neighborhood, near the Fields Corner MBTA station. In the November 2 general election, Stein finished last, receiving 32,816 votes out of 2,287,407 cast (1.4%).\n\nIn August 2011, Stein indicated that she was considering running for President of the United States with the Green Party in the 2012 national election. In a published questionnaire she said that a number of Green activists had asked her to run and called the U.S. debt-ceiling crisis \"the President's astounding attack on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid—a betrayal of the public interest.\" Stein launched her campaign in October 2011, saying,\n\nWe are all realizing that we, the people, have to take charge because the political parties that are serving the top 1 percent are not going to solve the problems that the rest of us face, we need people in Washington who will refuse to be bought by lobbyists and for whom change is not just a slogan.\n\nIn December 2011, Ben Manski, a Wisconsin Green Party leader, was announced as Stein's campaign manager. Her major primary opponents were Kent P. Mesplay and Roseanne Barr. Stein's signature issue during the primary was a \"Green New Deal\", a government spending plan intended to put 25 million people to work. Mesplay called that unrealistic, saying, \"This will take time to implement, and lacks legislative support.\"\n\nStein became the presumptive Green Party nominee after winning two-thirds of California's delegates in June 2012. In a statement following the California Green Party delegate election, Stein said, \"Voters will not be forced to choose between two servants of Wall Street in the upcoming election. Now we know there will be a third candidate on the ballot who is a genuine champion of working people.\" Stein was endorsed for president in 2012 by the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and war correspondent Chris Hedges, among others. Linguist Noam Chomsky said he would vote for her, but urged those in swing states to vote for Barack Obama.\nOn July 1, 2012, the Stein campaign reported it had received enough contributions to qualify for primary season federal matching funds, pending confirmation from the FEC. If funded, Stein would be the second Green Party presidential candidate ever to have qualified, with Ralph Nader having been the first in 2000. On July 11, Stein selected Cheri Honkala, an anti-poverty activist, as her running mate for the Green vice-presidential nomination. On July 14, she officially received the Green Party's nomination at its convention in Baltimore.\n\nOn August 1, Stein, Honkala and three others were arrested during a sit-in at a Philadelphia bank to protest housing foreclosures on behalf of several city residents struggling to keep their homes. Stein explained her willingness to be arrested:\n\nThe developers and financiers made trillions of dollars through the housing bubble and the imposition of crushing debt on homeowners. And when homeowners could no longer pay them what they demanded, they went to government and got trillions of dollars of bailouts. Every effort of the Obama Administration has been to prop this system up and keep it going at taxpayer expense. It's time for this game to end. It's time for the laws be written to protect the victims and not the perpetrators.\n\nOn October 16, Stein and Honkala were arrested after they tried to enter the site of the presidential debate at Hofstra University while protesting the exclusion of smaller political parties, such as the Green Party, from the debates. Stein likened her arrest to the persecution of dissident Sergei Udaltsov in Russia. On October 31, Stein was arrested in Texas for criminal trespass, after trying to deliver food and supplies to environmental activists of Tar Sands Blockade camped out in trees protesting the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline.\n\nThe Free and Equal Election Foundation hosted a third-party debate with four candidates on October 19 and a debate between Stein and Gary Johnson on November 5. Al Jazeera, C-SPAN, and RT America were the three major networks carrying the first debate.\n\nDuring the campaign, Stein repeatedly said that there were no significant differences between Mitt Romney and Barack Obama. She said, \"Romney is a wolf in a wolf's clothing, Obama is a wolf in a sheep's clothing, but they both essentially have the same agenda.\" She called both of them \"Wall Street candidates\" asking for \"a mandate for four more years of corporate rule\".\n\nStein received 469,015 votes (0.36%). She received 1% or more of the vote in three states: Maine (1.1%), Oregon (1.1%), and Alaska (1.0%).\n\nOn February 6, 2015, Stein announced the formation of an exploratory committee in preparation for a potential campaign for the Green Party's presidential nomination in 2016. On June 22, she formally announced her candidacy in a live interview with Amy Goodman on \"Democracy Now!\" After former Ohio state senator Nina Turner reportedly declined to be her running mate, Stein chose human rights activist Ajamu Baraka on August 1, 2016.\n\nStein stated during the 2016 campaign that the Democratic and Republican parties are \"two corporate parties\" that have converged into one. Concerned by the rise of fascism internationally and the rise of neoliberalism within the Democratic Party, she has said, \"The answer to neofascism is stopping neoliberalism. Putting another Clinton in the White House will fan the flames of this right-wing extremism. We have known that for a long time, ever since Nazi Germany.\" In August 2016, Stein released the first two pages of her 2015 tax return on her website.\n\nStein's financial disclosure, filed in March 2016, indicated that she maintained investments of as much as $8.5 million, including mutual or index funds that included holdings in industries that she had previously criticized, such as energy, financial, pharmaceutical, tobacco, and defense contractors. In response to questions about her finances, Stein said in part: \"Sadly, most of these broad investments are as compromised as the American economy—degraded as it is by the fossil fuel, defense and finance industries\", and later characterized the article as a \"smear attack\" against her.\n\nOn September 7, 2016, a North Dakota judge issued a warrant for Stein's arrest for spray-painting a bulldozer during a protest of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Stein was charged in Morton County with misdemeanor counts of criminal trespass and criminal mischief. Her running mate, Ajamu Baraka, received the same charges. After the warrant was issued, Stein said that she would cooperate with the North Dakota authorities and arrange a court date. She defended her actions, saying that it would have been \"inappropriate for me not to have done my small part\" to support the Standing Rock Sioux. In August 2017, she pleaded guilty to misdemeanor criminal mischief and was placed on probation for six months.\nStein said in an interview with \"Politico\" that: \"Donald Trump, I think, will have a lot of trouble moving things through Congress. Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, won't ... Hillary has the potential to do a whole lot more damage, get us into more wars, faster to pass her fracking disastrous climate program, much more easily than Donald Trump could do his.\"\n\nIn the same interview with \"Politico\", Stein said regarding Trump's business dealings and refusal to release his tax returns: \"At least with Clinton, you know, there was some degree of transparency, but what's going on with Trump, you can't even get at, and what he said was that even to clarify 15 out of these 500 deals, these are just like the most frightening mafiosos around the world. He's like — he's a magnet for crime and extortion.\"\n\nOn Mother's Day Stein tweeted \"I agree with Hillary, it's time to elect a woman for President. But I want that President to reflect the values of being a mother. #MothersDay\" This was criticized as being a gendered attack on Clinton.\n\nStein's highest polling average in four candidate polls was in late June 2016, when she polled at 4.8% nationally. Her polling numbers gradually slipped throughout the campaign, consistent with historical trends for minor party candidates; on the eve of Election Day, Stein was at 1.8% in a polling average. Stein ultimately received 1% of the national popular vote in the election. She finished in 4th with over 1,457,216 votes (more than the previous three Green tickets combined) and 1.07% of the popular vote.\n\nOn December 18, 2017, \"The Washington Post\" reported that the Senate Intelligence Committee is looking at the presidential campaign of Green Party's Jill Stein for potential \"collusion with the Russians.\" The Stein campaign has released a public statement stating that the campaign will work with investigators and provide requested materials, citing public transparency.\n\nIn November 2016, a group of computer scientists and election lawyers including J. Alex Halderman and John Bonifaz (founder of the National Voting Rights Institute) expressed concerns about the integrity of the presidential election results. They wanted a full audit or recount of the presidential election votes in three states key to Donald Trump's electoral college win—Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania—but needed a candidate on the presidential ballot to file the petition to state authorities. After unsuccessfully lobbying Hillary Clinton and her team, the group approached Stein and she agreed to spearhead the recount effort.\n\nA crowdfunding campaign launched on November 24, 2016 to support the costs of the recount, raised more than $2.5 million in under 24 hours, and $6.7 million in nearly a week. On November 25, 2016, with 90 minutes remaining on the deadline to petition for a recount to Wisconsin's electoral body, Stein filed for a recount of its presidential election results. She signaled she intended to file for similar recounts in the subsequent days in Michigan and Pennsylvania. President-elect Donald Trump issued a statement denouncing the recount request saying, \"The people have spoken and the election is over.\" Trump further commented that the recount \"is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has already been conceded.\"\n\nOn December 2, 2016, Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette filed a lawsuit to stop Stein's recount. On the same day in Wisconsin a U.S. District Judge denied an emergency halt to the recount, allowing it to continue until a December 9, 2016 hearing. On December 3, 2016, Stein dropped the state recount case in Pennsylvania, citing \"the barriers to verifying the vote in Pennsylvania are so pervasive and that the state court system is so ill-equipped to address this problem that we must seek federal court intervention.\"\n\nShortly after midnight on December 5, 2016, U.S. District Judge Mark A. Goldsmith, appointed by President Barack Obama in 2010, ordered Michigan election officials to hand-recount 4.8 million ballots, rejecting all concerns for the cost of the recount. Goldsmith wrote in his order: \"As emphasized earlier, budgetary concerns are not sufficiently significant to risk the disenfranchisement of Michigan's nearly 5 million voters\". Meanwhile, however, the Michigan Court of Appeals ruled that Stein, who placed fourth, had no chance of winning and was not an \"aggrieved candidate\" and ordered the Michigan election board to reject her petition for a recount. On December 7, 2016, Judge Goldsmith halted the Michigan recount. Stein filed an appeal with the Michigan Supreme Court, losing her appeal in a 3–2 decision on December 9, 2016.\n\nOn December 12, 2016, U.S. District Judge Paul S. Diamond rejected Stein's request for a Pennsylvania recount.\n\nIn May 2018, \"The Daily Beast\" reported that approximately $1 million of the original $7.3 million had yet to be spent and that there remained uncertainty about what precisely the money had been spent on. In July 2018, \"The Daily Beast\" reported that Stein was spending the recount money on her own campaign's legal defense as her campaign was being investigated in probes of Russian interference in the 2016 election.\n\nReferring to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal approach to the Great Depression, Stein advocated a Green New Deal in her 2012 and 2016 campaigns, in which renewable energy jobs would be created to address climate change and environmental issues; the objective would be to employ \"every American willing and able to work\". Stein said she would fund the start-up costs of the plan with a 30% reduction in the U.S. military budget, returning U.S. troops home, and increasing taxes on speculation in stock markets, offshore tax havens, and multimillion-dollar real estate, among other things. In 2012 and 2016 she cited a 2012 study in the \"Review of Black Political Economy\" by Rutgers professor Phillip Harvey showing that the multiplier economic effects of this \"Green New Deal\" would recoup most of the start-up costs of her plan. Stein further argued that her plan \"will end unemployment and poverty\". Asked how the funds of the Green New Deal would be distributed, Stein said that it would be \"through a community decision-making process\" but \"exactly how that would be configured, you know, remains to be established.\"\n\nDuring her 2012 and 2016 presidential runs, Stein called for \"nationalizing\" and \"democratiz[ing]\" the Federal Reserve, placing it under a Federal Monetary Authority in the Treasury Department and ending its independence.\n\nIn 2016, Stein said that she supported a new 0.5% financial transactions tax on the sale of stocks, bonds, and derivatives, and an increase in the estate tax to \"at least\" 55% on inheritances over $3 million.\n\nStein has argued that the Wall Street bailout was unconscionable and a \"waste\". In 2012, Stein opposed the raising of the debt ceiling, arguing that the U.S. should instead raise taxes on the wealthy and make military spending cuts to offset the debt.\n\nStein supports the creation of sustainable infrastructure based on clean renewable-energy generation and sustainable-community principles to stop what her party sees as a growing convergence of environmental crises in water, soil, fisheries, and forests. Her vision includes increasing intra-city mass transit and inter-city railroads, creating complete streets that safely encourage bike and pedestrian traffic, and regional food systems based on sustainable organic agriculture.\n\nStein has been skeptical of official employment numbers, saying in her 2015 State of the Union Green Party response that unemployment figures at the time were \"designed to essentially cover up unemployment,\" and arguing that the real unemployment rate for that year was around 12–13%. In February 2016, she said that \"real unemployment is nearly 10%, 2x as high as the official rate.\"\n\nShe supports the creation of nonprofit publicly owned banks, pledging to create such entities at the federal and state levels.\n\nStein has said she believes in having \"the government as the employer of last resort\". When asked in an August 2016 interview what this entailed, she said that the idea was a \"very broad brushstroke\" but that a position paper was forthcoming.\n\nStein's platform pledges to guarantee housing. When asked how this would be done, Stein answered, \"that is an aspirational goal at this point. We do not have a specific program.\"\n\nWhen asked in September 2016 if she would consider using quantitative easing to establish a universal basic income or a Medicare for all package, Stein answered that it \"should be looked into ... Definitely.\"\n\nStein has argued for \"free higher public education going forward.\" Stein favors canceling all student loan debt, saying that it could be done using quantitative easing and without raising taxes. She has described quantitative easing as a \"digital hat-trick\" or \"magic trick that basically people don't need to understand any more about than that it is a magic trick\". According to Stein, the Federal Reserve could buy up student loans and agree not to collect the debt, thereby effectively canceling it. Because the Federal Reserve is an independent government agency, the president lacks the authority to implement such a plan. Stein has drawn parallels between her student loan proposal and the Wall Street bailout, saying that the US government bought up Wall Street debt and then canceled it. Jordan Weissmann of \"Slate\" argues that Stein's Wall Street comparison is \"flat wrong\": the Federal Reserve did not buy and cancel debt owed by the banks but bought and held onto debt owned by the banks. When asked why her plan includes canceling upper-income individuals' debt, Stein responded that higher education \"pays for itself\" and that education is not a \"gift,\" but a \"right,\" and a \"necessity.\"\n\nStein feels that the move towards computerized education in kindergarten was bad for young children's cognitive and social development, saying, \"We should be moving away from screens at all levels of education.\" She argues that increasing computerization benefits only device manufacturers, not teachers, children, or communities. Stein opposes charter schools and has been critical of the Common Core, saying that teachers rather than \"corporate contractors\" should be responsible for education.\n\nStein is critical of the two-party system, and argues for ranked-choice voting as a favorable alternative to \"lesser evilism\". Calling for \"more voices and more choices\", the Stein campaign launched a petition demanding that all candidates appearing on a sufficient number of state ballots to be theoretically electable should be invited to participate in the presidential debates. In September 2016, Stein announced support for lowering the voting age to 16, in line with many other Green parties worldwide.\n\nStein proposes that the United States shift to 100% renewable energy by 2030. She supports a national ban on fracking on the grounds that \"cutting-edge science now suggests fracking is every bit as bad as coal\". She has spoken against nuclear energy, saying it \"is dirty, dangerous and expensive, and should be precluded on all of those counts.\" In March 2016, she tweeted, \"Nuclear power plants = weapons of mass destruction waiting to be detonated.\" In 2012, Stein said, \"three times more jobs are created per dollar invested in conservation and renewables. Nuclear is currently the most expensive per unit of energy created.\" Stein says that she will \"ensure that any worker displaced by the shift away from fossil fuels will receive full income and benefits as they transition to alternative work.\" She has further argued that moving away from fossil fuels will produce substantial savings in healthcare costs. She wants to \"treat energy as a human right\".\n\nStein says that climate change is a \"national emergency\" and calling it \"a threat greater than World War II.\" Stein has written: \"We need climate mobilization comparable to what the US did after WWII.\" She has described the Paris Climate Agreement as inadequate, saying it will not stop climate change. She has said that she would \"basically override\" the agreement and create a more effective one.\n\nStein has argued that the cost of transitioning to 100% renewable energy by 2030 would in part be recouped by healthcare savings, citing studies that predict 200,000 fewer premature deaths as well as less illness. She has noted that when Cuba lost Soviet oil subsidies it experienced plummeting diabetes (down 50%), CVD (down 30%) and all-cause (down 18%) death rates.\n\nStein supports the Great Sioux Nation's opposition to the Dakota Access Pipeline, and in September 2016 joined protesters in North Dakota. Both Stein and her running mate, Ajamu Baraka, are facing misdemeanor criminal charges for spray-painting bulldozers at the construction site of the pipeline with \"I approve this message\" and \"decolonization\" respectively.\n\nStein takes a non-interventionist approach to foreign policy.\n\nStein wishes to cut U.S. military spending by at least 50%. and would close US overseas military bases. She has said that they \"are turning our republic into a bankrupt empire\". She wants to replace the lost military jobs \"with jobs in renewable energy, transportation and green infrastructure development\" and to \"restore the National Guard as the centerpiece of our defense\".\n\nAccording to Stein, the United States should use force only when there is \"good evidence that we are under imminent threat of actual attack\". When asked by the \"Los Angeles Times\" editorial board whether that standard would have prevented US involvement in World War II, Stein answered, \"I don't want to revisit history or try to reinterpret it, you know, but starting from where we are now, given the experience that we've had in the last, you know, since 2001, which has been an utter disaster, I don't think it's benefited us.\" Asked whether such a standard would force the US to withdraw from all of its mutual defense treaties, Stein answered that the treaties need to \"be looked at one by one\", mentioning NATO in particular.\n\nOn the subject of NATO, Stein has said that NATO has violated international law in Libya, and that it is part of \"a foreign policy that has been based on economic and military domination\". When asked whether she agreed with Ajamu Baraka's description of NATO as \"gangster states\", Stein answered that she would not use Baraka's language but that \"he means the same thing I'm saying\". Stein has said that NATO \"pursued a policy of basically encircling Russia — including the threat of nukes and drones and so on.\" When asked by \"The Washington Post\" about NATO's role in protecting the Baltic states against Russia, Stein responded: \"At this point, I'm not prepared to speak to that in detail\" but said that NATO has not followed its stated policy after the fall of the Berlin Wall not to move \"one inch to the East.\" She further argued that there has been provocation on both sides and that a diplomatic approach is necessary. Stein has said that NATO fights invented enemies in order to provide work for the weapons industry.\n\nWhen asked in a \"Vox\" interview about Russian military policy in Crimea and Ukraine, Stein answered, \"These are highly questionable situations. Why are we — Russia used to own Ukraine. Ukraine was historically a part of Russia for quite some period of time, and we all know there was this conversation with Victoria Nuland about planning the coup and who was going to take over ... Let's just stop pretending there are good guys here and bad guys here. These are complicated situations. Yeah, Russia is doing lots of human rights abuse, but you know what? So are we.\" When asked by \"Politico\" if she thought that Putin was an \"incipient despot\", Stein answered, \"To some extent, yes, but there could be a whole lot worse ... when we needlessly provoke him and endanger him and surround him with war games--you know, this is sort of the Cuban Missile Crisis on steroids, what we are doing to Russia right now, and I don't think this is a good idea.\"\n\nStein has argued that the United States \"helped foment\" a coup in Ukraine, maintaining that Ukraine should be neutral and that the United States should not arm it. She was critical of the Ukrainian government formed after the Ukrainian Revolution of 2014, saying that \"ultra-nationalists and ex-Nazis came to power.\" She met with President Vladimir Putin in Moscow in December 2015 at a banquet to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Russian state television network RT. While in Russia, Stein criticized U.S. foreign policy (saying that the U.S. had a \"policy of domination\" instead of \"international law, human rights and diplomacy\") and human rights in the U.S, but her comments prompted a negative response from commentator John Aravosis who commented that Stein has \"nothing negative to say about Russian foreign policy, or Russia's horrific lack of respect for human rights\".\n\nAfter U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces captured Manbij from ISIL in August, Stein tweeted, \"To Syrians who escaped Manbij because of U.S.-led forces, I'm sorry our weapons terrorized you for two years.\" She has said that her approach to the Syrian Civil War would be to put in place a weapons embargo, freeze funds going to ISIL and other terrorist groups, and push for a peace process leading to a ceasefire. Stein is also in favor of taking \"far more\" than the 10,000 Syrian refugees Obama pledged to take in.\n\nStein has been sharply critical of the use of drones, calling them a human rights violation and an \"illegal assassination program\" saying that they are \"off target nine times out of ten.\" She has also been critical of America's \"expanding wars\" and accused the United States of currently \"bombing seven countries,\" which Politifact rated as a true statement.\n\nStein has accused the Israeli government of \"apartheid, assassination, illegal settlements, blockades, building of nuclear bombs, indefinite detention, collective punishment, and defiance of international law.\" She supports the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign against Israel and regards Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as a \"war criminal\". Upon the death of Nobel Peace Laureate Elie Wiesel, Stein praised him in a tribute on her Facebook page, but deleted the post when commenters criticized Wiesel's Zionism. When asked in September 2016 whether she had a \"position on whether a two-state solution is a better solution than a one-state solution\", Stein answered, \"I feel like I am not as informed as I need to be to really weigh in on that\".\n\nStein does not think the U.S should become involved in territorial disputes in the South China Sea.\n\nImmediately after the UK voted to leave the European Union, Stein posted a celebratory statement on her website, saying the vote was \"a victory for those who believe in the right of self-determination and who reject the pro-corporate, austerity policies of the political elites in the EU ... [and] a rejection of the European political elite and their contempt for ordinary people.\" She later changed the statement (without indicating so), removing words like \"victory\" and adding the line, \"Before the Brexit vote I agreed with Jeremy Corbyn, Caroline Lucas and the UK Greens who supported staying in the EU but working to fix it.\"\n\nIn 2012, Stein favored maintaining current levels of international aid spending.\n\nOn the eve of the 15-year anniversary of the September 11 attacks, Stein called for \"a comprehensive and independent inquiry into the attacks,\" saying that the \"9/11 Commission Report\" contained many \"omissions and distortions.\" The next day, she said: \"I think I would not have assassinated Osama bin Laden but would have captured him and brought him to trial.\"\n\nAfter the death of Cuban former communist leader Fidel Castro, Stein tweeted that \"Fidel Castro was a symbol of the struggle for justice in the shadow of empire.\"\n\nStein supports GMO labeling, a moratorium on new GMOs, and the phasing out of existing GMO foods, unless independent research \"shows decisively that GMOs are not harmful to human health or ecosystems\". Speaking of the health effects of foods derived from GM crops, she has said: \"And I can tell you as a physician with special interest and long history in environmental health, the quality of studies that we have are not what you need. We should have a moratorium until they are proven safe, and they have not been proven safe in the way that they are used.\"\n\nCommentators have criticized Stein's statements about GMOs, writing that they contradict the scientific consensus, which is that existing GM foods are no less safe than foods made from conventional crops. Among the critics was Jordan Weissmann, \"Slate\"'s business and economics editor, who wrote in July 2016: \"Never mind that scientists have studied GMOs extensively and found no signs of danger to human health—Stein would like medical researchers to prove a negative.\"\n\nIn \"Environmental Threats to Healthy Aging\" (2008), Stein concludes her section on pesticides by saying: \"[M]any but not all studies find that acute high-dose and chronic lower-dose occupational exposures to some neurotoxic pesticides are linked to an increased risk of cognitive decline, dementia or Alzheimer's disease.\"\n\nIn 2000, Stein and her coauthors wrote, \"Twenty million American children five and under eat an average of eight pesticides every day through food consumption. Thirty-seven pesticides registered for use on foods are neurotoxic organophosphate insecticides, chemically related to more toxic nerve warfare agent developed earlier this century.\" They further noted the ubiquity of these pesticides in the home and at schools, citing Schettler \"et al.\" for the claim that \"The trend is toward increasingly common exposures to organophosphates. For example, chlorpyrifos detections in urine increased more than tenfold from 1980 to 1990.\"\n\nEnvironmentalist Bo Gardiner has criticized Stein's anti-GMO stance, citing research showing that eliminating GMOs would seriously harm the environment by increasing the amount of land used for agriculture, producing more fertilizer contamination of waterways and more pesticide use, and generating more greenhouse gases. This criticism also included her call for imprisoning GMO crop producers and making the discredited claim that GMOs caused farmers in India to commit suicide.\n\nIn a question-and-answer session, Stein voiced concern about wireless internet (Wi-Fi) in schools, saying, \"We should not be subjecting kids' brains especially to that ... and we don't follow this issue in our country, but in Europe, where they do, you know, they have good precautions about wireless. Maybe not good enough, you know. It's very hard to study this stuff. You know, we make guinea pigs out of whole populations and then we discover how many die.\" According to the World Health Organization (WHO), \"no adverse health effects are expected from exposure to [Wi-Fi]\". Stein later said, \"take precautions about how much we expose young children to WiFi and cellphones until we know more about the long-term health effects of this type of low-level radiation.\" In an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\" editorial board, Stein clarified that her statements on Wi-Fi were \"not a policy statement\" and that attention to her statement on Wi-Fi was \"a sign of a gotcha political system\".\n\nStein is in favor of replacing the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) with a \"Medicare-for-All\" healthcare system and has said that it is an \"illusion\" that Obamacare is a \"step in the right direction\" toward single-payer healthcare. When asked in August 2016 whether she supported a ballot measure in Colorado to create the first universal healthcare system in the nation (ColoradoCare), Stein said she was not ready to endorse the plan, citing concerns about gaps and loopholes in the ballot measure.\n\nStein has been critical of subsidizing unhealthy food products and of \"agri-business\" for its advertisements encouraging unhealthy eating. She has said that due to agri-business, Greeks no longer have the healthy diets they once did.\n\nJill Stein advocates \"a welcoming path to citizenship for immigrants.\"\n\nStein has deplored what she and others identify as the structural racism of the U.S. judicial and prison system. She has promised that \"the Green New Deal prioritizes job creation in the areas of greatest need: communities of color\" and argues that the war on drugs has disproportionately affected communities of color.\n\nOn Juneteenth in 2016, Stein called for reparations for slavery. In accepting the nomination of the Green party, she reiterated this support, calling for a Truth and Reconciliation Commission \"to provide reparations to acknowledge the enormous debt owed to the African American community.\"\n\nAsked by \"The Washington Post\" whether she agreed with Baraka's characterization of President Obama as an \"Uncle Tom\", Stein replied that it would be better to address questions about his choice of words to him, but added that she thought he \"was speaking to a demographic that feels pretty locked out of the American power structure.\"\n\nIn 2012, Vote Smart reported that Stein wanted to \"slightly decrease\" spending on space exploration. She favored maintaining current levels of spending on scientific and medical research. In 2016, Stein said NASA funding should be increased, arguing that by halving the military budget, more money could be directed towards \"exploring space instead of destroying planet Earth.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"The Washington Post\", Stein stated that \"vaccines have been absolutely critical in ridding us of the scourge of many diseases,\" and said that \"[t]here were concerns among physicians about what the vaccination schedule meant, the toxic substances like mercury which used to be rampant in vaccines. There were real questions that needed to be addressed. I think some of them at least have been addressed. I don't know if all of them have been addressed.\" \"The Guardian\" says that \"research has shown schedule-related concerns about vaccines to be unfounded, and that delays to vaccines actually put children at greater risk. Anti-vaxx campaigners often claim that there are dangerous compounds in vaccines, though decades of safe vaccinations contradict the claim and no evidence shows that trace amounts that remain in some approved vaccines cause any harm to the body.\"\n\nIn \"The Washington Post\" interview, Stein said that vaccines should be approved by a board that people can trust, and \"people do not trust a Food and Drug Administration,\" or Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, \"where corporate influence and the pharmaceutical industry has a lot of influence.\" According to \"The Guardian\", eleven members of the Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee are medical doctors who work at hospitals and universities, and two work at pharmaceutical companies, GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi Pasteur US. In response, Stein said that \"Monsanto lobbyists help run the day in those agencies and are in charge of approving what food isn't safe\". Emily Willingham, scientist and contributor at \"Forbes\", described Stein's statements on vaccines as \"using dog whistle terms and equivocations bound to appeal to the 'antivaccine' constituency\". Dan Kahan, a professor at Yale who has studied public perception of science, says that it is dangerous for candidates to equivocate on vaccines, \"Because the attitudes about vaccines are pretty much uniform across the political spectrum, it doesn't seem like a great idea for any candidate to be anti-vaccine. The modal view is leave the freaking system alone.\" In response to a Twitter question about whether vaccines cause autism, Stein first answered, \"there is no evidence that autism is caused by vaccines,\" then revised her tweet to \"I'm not aware of evidence linking autism with vaccines.\"\n\nIn a later interview at the Green party convention, Stein answered \"no\" to the question \"do you think vaccines cause autism?\" She called this a \"nonsense issue, meant to distract people\" and likened it to smear campaigns used in previous presidential elections, citing the \"Swiftboat issue\" or the \"birther issue,\" pointing out that in her previous published work on autism and other child development issues, no mention was made of vaccines. When asked about vaccines by \"Jacobin\" editor Bhaskar Sunkara, Stein responded: \"One of the issues I used to work on was reducing mercury exposure. That was an issue at one point in vaccines. That's been rectified,\" adding, \"there are issues about mercury in the fish supply that many low-income people and immigrant communities rely on, and in indigenous communities especially. This is a huge issue and the FDA has refused for decades to regulate and to warn people.\"\n\nIn an October 21, 2016, interview, producer Bec Gill with the ScIQ YouTube channel asked Stein: \"You talk extensively on your concern about corporate influence over U.S. vaccine regulations. My question is, what evidence do you have that corporate influence has caused either the FDA or the CDC to make decisions that endanger American children's health?\" Stein offered as evidence Vioxx and Monsanto.\n\nIn her acceptance speech for the Green Party nomination, she called for \"end[ing] the war on whistleblowers, and free[ing] the political prisoners ... Leonard Peltier, Mumia Abu Jamal, Chelsea Manning, Julian Assange, Edward Snowden, Jeffrey Sterling, and Edward Pinkney [.]\" She said that she would have Snowden in her Cabinet if elected. In an op-ed on the subject of WikiLeaks, Stein argued that Assange was doing what other journalists should be doing but are not, and added that whistleblowers have been increasingly subject to \"character assassination\" and prosecution during the Obama administration.\n\nStein is married to Richard Rohrer, who is also a physician. They live in Lexington, Massachusetts, with their cat and a vizsla, and have two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "52901402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52901402", "title": "Joan Faber McAlister", "text": "Joan Faber McAlister\n\nJoan Faber McAlister is an American rhetorician and associate professor, and contributes research to women's studies in communication. Her research primarily focuses on how images and space communicate messages in public culture through perceptions of beauty and critical theory. McAlister received a Ph.D. from the University of Iowa, and an M.A. in communication and B.A. in anthropology from Boise State University. She is currently an associate professor of communication at Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa. McAlister was also the editor of \"Women's Studies in Communication\", an international academic journal founded by the Organization for Research on Women and Communication (ORWAC).\n\nJoan Faber Mcalister was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.\n\nShe attended Boise State University, from which she received a B.A. in anthropology in 1994 with an emphasis in cultural studies and ethnography. In 1996 she completed her M.A. in communication at the same institution.\n\nFaber received her Ph.D. in rhetorical studies from the University of Iowa in 2005 with a special certificate in the project on the rhetoric of inquiry.\n\nMcAlister's research focuses primarily on how images and space communicate messages in public culture through perceptions of beauty and critical theory. Her research using critical theory confronts ideological, societal, and structural binds found in culture and literature. McAlister focuses on analyzing topics including Congressional hearings, popular films, national news coverage, magazine advertisements, reality television, urban planning, and architecture. She approaches these documents with a focus on the relationship between social location and rhetoric, i.e.: how different individuals are placed in power and how the factors of class, gender, race, and sexuality impact these individuals. Her research is concerned with the different factors that are impacting cultural performance and create a sense of belonging that could have detrimental outcomes. She focuses on a concept of \"home\" being more than just a physical location. McAlister has stated that home is \"about relationships between you and your environment [...] between your desires and your limitations [...and] associations between regional identities and cultures.\"\n\nMcAlister's essay \"Collecting the Gaze: Memory, Agency, and Kinship in the Women's Jail Museum, Johannesburg\" discusses the views of Walter Benjamin in the Women's Jail museum in Johannesburg, South Africa. Benjamin was a German-Jewish philosopher who died in 1940 at the Women's Jail while avoiding deportation to either a French concentration camp or to Nazi Germany. The Women's jail is now a site that rests on the grounds of a former racially segregated prison that was in use from 1020 to 1983, during which apartheid laws sought to assure the dominance of white people. Those who resisted often faced repercussions, drawing a parallel between the Women's Jail and a Nazi regime. The Women's Jail holds visible memories of former inmates, directing the tourists' gaze through haunting collections of personal items such as newspaper clippings. Benjamin's collection often included very personal items such as wedding photographs, shoes, and quotes that were placed where women had once lived and worked, to present more depth into their personal experiences.\n\nMcAlister then discusses how feminist critics of visual and public memories have concerns about the use of the gaze and the ability it has to change subjects into objects that then create a uniform story. The male gaze, in feminist theory, is associated with objectifying, defining, and exploiting females into objects for sexual pleasure to be viewed. The \"tourist gaze\" is a way of viewing culture as a commodity and can shift tragic sites of trauma into a site that offers pleasure at the expense of others' pain, often with a consumerist goal. McAlister discusses how the gaze of visual and memorial culture causes concern about re-establishing hierarchical systems of race, class, gender, and sexuality that construct identities either through places of public memory or through the objectification of females. She also discusses how the Women's Jail displays the daily life of the prisoners such as the humiliating conditions that menstruating inmates were forced to live through. This includes exhibits detailing how inmates were not allowed to wear undergarments and were forced to push their thighs together or utilize shoe laces to hold pads in place while working. This shows the notable different between the experiences of female and male prisoners which provides visitors with a different gaze into the particular details of daily life while being incarcerated. McAlister's article discusses how the Women's Jail asks visitors to share the responsibility to collect and preserve the past in order to change views of both the past and the future.\n\nMcAlister's article \"Lives of the Mind/Body: Alarming Notes on the Tenure and Biological Clocks\" seeks to draw attention to the biological clocks that women are encouraged to constantly worry about throughout their careers. It discusses the idea that women are torn between achieving academically, in McAlister's situation, and keeping reproductive \"expiration dates\" to themselves. If women pay too much attention to their biological clocks in order to begin a family they will seemingly struggle to stay at the same pace as their male colleagues. McAlister discusses her fear that bringing children into her life would cause her to be viewed as feminine and motherly which would contradict her outward professional persona as a scholar. She noted that having children was often viewed as being uncommitted to academic work by her male colleagues who were published or more revered. It was only after discussing this dilemma with her advisor, a well-established scholar, that McAlister decided to have children.\n\nAfter gaining this approval, the article discusses how McAlister conceived her first child who was stillborn on April 3, 2000. She later had a daughter and twins (one male and one female) who altered both her physical and academic life. While she continued to pursue a tenured position, McAlister found that she needed to keep her bodily connections with her babies private. For example, she discusses hiding in a corner of a conference room to prepare for her \"job talk\" when in fact she needed time to breast pump. She discusses how asking for time for this specific task would have made her seem potentially less fit for the position she was ultimately offered. The article also discusses the biological clock point-of-view in McAlister's missing many \"firsts\" from first steps to first words while working on her dissertation and pursuing her scholarly goals. The article concludes by underlining the need to draw attention to how scholarly discourse is gendered and requires more discussion on what defines productivity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55042842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55042842", "title": "John D. Hoffman", "text": "John D. Hoffman\n\nJohn Drake Hoffman (November 26, 1922 – February 21, 2004) was an American chemist and author who was awarded the Soldier's Medal, the United States Army's highest award for an act of valor in a non-combat situation, and the only one awarded to a member of the Manhattan District. After the war he worked for the National Bureau of Standards, becoming the director of its national measurements laboratory. He was a professor and director of the engineering materials program at the University of Maryland from 1982 to 1985, director of the Michigan Molecular Institute, and a professor of materials science and engineering at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nJohn Drake Hoffman was born in Washington, D.C., on November 26, 1922. He grew up in Bethesda, Maryland, and attended Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School. He entered Franklin & Marshall College in Pennsylvania, graduating with a B.S. in chemistry in 1942.\n\nHoffman served in the U.S. Army during World War II. In 1944, he was posted to the Special Engineer Detachment at the Clinton Engineer Works in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. In August 1944, he was one of ten enlisted men to volunteer for a dangerous special assignment: along with four civilians, they were sent to learn about a prototype liquid thermal diffusion uranium enrichment plant at the Philadelphia Navy Yard, part of the Manhattan Project's S-50 Project. This knowledge would be put to use at a larger, production plant then under construction at Oak Ridge.\n\nOn 2 September 1944, a cylinder of highly corrosive uranium hexafluoride exploded. Nearby steam pipes ruptured, the steam reacting with the uranium hexafluoride to create hydrofluoric acid. Hoffman ran through the toxic cloud to rescue Private Arnold Kramish and two civilians, Peter N. Bragg Jr. (a United Naval Research Laboratory chemical engineer) and Douglas P. Meigs (a Fercleve Corporation employee). Bragg and Meigs died from their injuries but Kramish, Hoffman, and nine others recovered from burns and other injuries. Hoffman received the Soldier's Medal, the United States Army's highest award for valor in a non-combat situation, and the only one awarded to a member of the Manhattan District.\n\nHoffman left the army in 1946, and entered Princeton University, where he earned M.S. and Ph.D. degrees, writing his 1949 doctoral thesis on \"The Dielectric Properties of Long Chain Compounds\" under the supervision of Charles Phelps Smyth. He married Barbara Smith in 1949. They had three sons: James, John and Robert. After her death in 1980, he married Dolores Garcia. Through his second marriage he acquired two stepdaughters, Carol Wichers and Valerie Wichers-Calder.\n\nAfter graduation, Hoffman worked at General Electric as a researcher from 1949 to 1954. He then joined the National Bureau of Standards as a research chemist. He became the chief of the Dielectrics Section in 1957, and of the Polymers Division in 1964. In 1967, he became the director of the Institute for Materials Research. Finally, in 1978, he became the Director of the National Measurement Laboratory. He retired from the Bureau of Standards in 1982. He was a professor at the University of Maryland from 1982 to 1985, and Director and CEO of the Michigan Molecular Institute from 1985 to 1990. Finally, he was professor of materials science and engineering at Johns Hopkins University. He was awarded the Department of Commerce Gold Medal in 1965, the Samuel Wesley Stratton Award of the National Bureau of Standards in 1967, and the Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Executive. He published over 60 scientific papers, but is best remembered for his 1961 work with John I. Lauritzen on Hoffman nucleation theory.\n\nHoffman died from congestive heart failure at George Washington University Hospital on February 21, 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "34020715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34020715", "title": "John Harris Soper", "text": "John Harris Soper\n\nJohn Harris Soper (1846–1944) was Marshal of the Kingdom of Hawaii during the period of 1884-86 and 1888-90. \nHe was born November 17, 1846, in Plymouth, Devon, England to Thomas Harris Soper and Mary Kipling Soper.\nA military man, he became Commander-in-chief of military forces of the Provisional Government of Hawaii in 1893; Adjutant General and Chief of Staff during the period of 1894-1907; and retired as Brigadier General of the National Guard of Hawaii in 1907, having previously served in the California National Guard. Also a businessman, he was President of Hawaiian News Company in Honolulu; and also managed Soper, Wright & Company, a sugar plantation, on ʻŌʻōkala, Hawaii. \nHe served as honorary vice-president of the Societe des Sauveteurs du Dernier Adieu; and was a member of the Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, F. & A. M.. Soper married Mary Elizabeth Wundenberg at Vallejo, California in 1871; they had five children.\n\nSoper died July 26, 1944 in Honolulu.\n"}
{"id": "51593500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51593500", "title": "John Jairo Velásquez", "text": "John Jairo Velásquez\n\nJhon Jairo Velásquez Vásquez (born April 15, 1962) also known by the alias \"Popeye\", is a former assassin who was part of the criminal structure of the Medellin Cartel until his surrender to the Colombian justice system in 1992. Within this structure he claimed to be a lieutenant commanding half of the sicarios. He also claimed to be one of the members of the inner circle of Pablo Escobar, the head of the criminal organization calling itself Los Extraditables.\n\nJhon Jairo Velásquez Vásquez was born in the municipality of Yarumal, Antioquia, Colombia. He was admitted to the Colombian National Army, later he joined the cadet school of the national police, only to leave days later, having not found any satisfaction in his profession. Later, he entered the school of apprentices of the Colombian Navy where he earned his distinctive nickname ‘Popeye’ because of his physical resemblance to the character, which would later be removed by plastic surgery. Velásquez escaped from prison once and was later caught and served the time.\n\nVelásquez attended University of North Barranquilla. He entered the School of NCOs of the Colombian Navy, and eventually transferring to the Police Cadet School General Santander, where he spent one semester. Later in life, while imprisoned, he also obtained 14 diplomas of various short courses.\n\nVelasquez was identified as one of the most important hitmen of the Medellin cartel. He has confessed to 257 personal killings, the kidnapping of then candidate for mayor of Bogota, Andres Pastrana Arango (who would later become President of the republic), the kidnapping of Francisco Santos (who would later become vice president), kidnapping and murder of Colombian politician Carlos Mauro Hoyos, complicity in the murder of the governor of Antioquia, Antonio Roldán Betancur, in a failed mission entrusted to Popeye and John Jairo Arias Tascon, alias \"Pinina\" to kill a police colonel, and the killing of politician and Presidential candidate Luis Carlos Galán Sarmiento. He also admitted to arranging over 3000 killings. He helped plan the plane bombing that killed 110 people.\n\nSince 1992, Velasquez served a prison sentence on charges of terrorism, drug trafficking, extortion, conspiracy for terrorist purposes and murder. However, despite the severity of his crimes, Colombia does not have capital punishment and the maximum sentence at the time of his conviction was thirty years. During 2000 and 2001, Popeye was involved in . In 2008, he was sentenced to twelve years for other judicial proceedings against him. On August 22, 2014 he received probation for having served three-fifths of his sentence. At age of 52, he was released on 26 August 2014 after 23 years and 3 months in prison.\n\nVelásquez was once in a relationship with Wendy Chavarriaga Gil, a former lover of his boss Pablo Escobar. They were laying in bed one day when the phone rang; on the other end was a recording of Wendy speaking with DEA agents. \"Popeye\" was then given a choice, love or death, silver or lead (plata o plomo). Velásquez hung up the phone and shot Wendy fatally twice in the forehead, in a fit of rage. In an interview, according to Popeye, Escobar was clear in his instructions, “you or her, do not hesitate a single second ... plata o plomo, amor o muerte. I’m waiting“ As his main sicario and Escobar's right hand man, \"Popeye\" performed the murder himself even though she was the woman he loved. He was loyal to Escobar until the King of Cocaine released him of his duties while on the run.\n\nControversy has continued to follow Popeye since his release from prison. On December 12, 2016, a video appeared in which Velásquez brandishes and fires a handgun in the streets of Medellín. In the video, Velásquez proudly states, \"Hello warriors, I'm here in the streets of my beloved Medellín, testing out my beautiful 9mm Pietro Beretta. We're firing it, it's a doll, a beauty!\"\n\nIn December 2016, two men on motorbikes pulled up alongside him as he was driving in his car and robbed him of his glasses, two old bracelets and an old mobile phone, he said. He also said it was the second time he had been targeted in such a way but he had not reported the incidents.\n\nToday, aside from being a controversial figure, Velásquez is a YouTube personality who uploads videos. In these videos, he critiques various topics in Colombia such as a corrupt government and socioeconomic hardships.. He is working on a TV series based on his own life and his involvement in the Medellin Cartel and will star in season 3 of Narcos (TV series). Netflix released a drama called Surviving Escobar in 2017, the series is based on the book written by Jhon Jairo Velásquez. \n"}
{"id": "25568315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25568315", "title": "Katherine Johnson", "text": "Katherine Johnson\n\nKatherine Coleman Goble Johnson (born August 26, 1918) is an African-American mathematician whose calculations of orbital mechanics as a NASA employee were critical to the success of the first and subsequent U.S. manned spaceflights. During her 35-year career at NASA and its predecessor, she earned a reputation for mastering complex manual calculations and helped the space agency pioneer the use of computers to perform the tasks.\n\nJohnson's work included calculating trajectories, launch windows and emergency return paths for Project Mercury spaceflights, including those of astronauts Alan Shepard, the first American in space, and John Glenn, the first American in orbit, and rendezvous paths for the Apollo lunar lander and command module on flights to the Moon. Her calculations were also essential to the beginning of the Space Shuttle program, and she worked on plans for a mission to Mars. In 2015, President Barack Obama awarded Johnson the Presidential Medal of Freedom. She was portrayed by Taraji P. Henson as a lead character in the 2016 film \"Hidden Figures.\"\n\nJohnson was born Katherine Coleman in 1918 in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, to Joylette and Joshua Coleman. She was the youngest of four children. Her mother was a teacher and her father was a lumberman, farmer, and handyman and worked at the Greenbrier Hotel.\n\nJohnson showed high mathematical abilities from an early age. Because Greenbrier County did not offer public schooling for African-American students past the eighth grade, the Colemans arranged for their children to attend high school at Institute, West Virginia. This school was on the campus of West Virginia State College (WVSC, now West Virginia State University). Johnson was admitted when she was only 10 years old. The family split their time between Institute during the school year and White Sulphur Springs in the summer.\n\nJohnson graduated from high school at 14 and entered West Virginia State, a historically black college. As a student, she took every math course offered by the college. Multiple professors mentored her, including chemist and mathematician Angie Turner King, who had also mentored the girl throughout high school, and W. W. Schieffelin Claytor, the third African American to receive a PhD in math. Claytor added new math courses just for Katherine. She graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1937, with degrees in mathematics and French, at age 18. She took on a teaching job at a black public school in Marion, Virginia.\n\nIn 1939, after marrying her first husband, James Goble, Johnson left her teaching job and enrolled in a graduate math program. She quit after one year, after becoming pregnant and choosing to focus on her family. At the time of her entry, she was the first African-American woman to attend graduate school at West Virginia University in Morgantown, West Virginia. Through WVSC's president, Dr. John W. Davis, she became one of three African-American students, and the only woman, selected to integrate the graduate school after the United States Supreme Court ruling \"Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada\" (1938). The court had ruled that states that provided public higher education to white students also had to provide it to black students, to be satisfied either by establishing black colleges and universities or by admitting black students to previously white-only universities.\n\nJohnson decided on a career as a research mathematician, although this was a difficult field for African Americans and women to enter. The first jobs she found were in teaching. At a family gathering in 1952 a relative mentioned that the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) was hiring mathematicians. (It was superseded by the agency NASA in 1958.) At the Langley Memorial Aeronautical Laboratory, based in Hampton, Virginia, near Langley Field, NACA hired African-American mathematicians as well as whites for their Guidance and Navigation Department. Johnson was offered a job in 1953. She accepted and became part of the early NASA team.\n\nAccording to an oral history archived by the National Visionary Leadership Project:\n\nAt first she [Johnson] worked in a pool of women performing math calculations. Katherine has referred to the women in the pool as virtual \"computers who wore skirts\". Their main job was to read the data from the black boxes of planes and carry out other precise mathematical tasks. Then one day, Katherine (and a colleague) were temporarily assigned to help the all-male flight research team. Katherine's knowledge of analytic geometry helped make quick allies of male bosses and colleagues to the extent that, \"they forgot to return me to the pool\". While the racial and gender barriers were always there, Katherine says she ignored them. Katherine was assertive, asking to be included in editorial meetings (where no women had gone before). She simply told people she had done the work and that she belonged.\nFrom 1953 to 1958, Johnson worked as a \"computer\", analyzing topics such as gust alleviation for aircraft. Originally assigned to the West Area Computers section supervised by mathematician Dorothy Vaughan, Johnson was reassigned to the Guidance and Control Division of Langley's Flight Research Division. It was staffed by white male engineers. In keeping with state racial segregation laws, and federal workplace segregation introduced under President Woodrow Wilson in the early 20th century, Johnson and the other African-American women in the computing pool were required to work, eat, and use restrooms that were separate from those of their white peers. Their office was labeled as \"Colored Computers\". In an interview with WHRO-TV, Johnson stated that she \"didn't feel the segregation at NASA, because everybody there was doing research. You had a mission and you worked on it, and it was important to you to do your job ... and play bridge at lunch.\" She added: \"I didn't feel any segregation. I knew it was there, but I didn't feel it.\"\n\nNACA disbanded the colored computing pool in 1958 when it was superseded by NASA, which adopted digital computers. Although the installation was desegregated, forms of discrimination were still pervasive. Johnson recalled that era:\n\nWe needed to be assertive as women in those days – assertive and aggressive – and the degree to which we had to be that way depended on where you were. I had to be. In the early days of NASA women were not allowed to put their names on the reports – no woman in my division had had her name on a report. I was working with Ted Skopinski and he wanted to leave and go to Houston ... but Henry Pearson, our supervisor – he was not a fan of women – kept pushing him to finish the report we were working on. Finally, Ted told him, \"Katherine should finish the report, she's done most of the work anyway.\" So Ted left Pearson with no choice; I finished the report and my name went on it, and that was the first time a woman in our division had her name on something.\n\nFrom 1958 until her retirement in 1986, Johnson worked as an aerospace technologist, moving during her career to the Spacecraft Controls Branch. She calculated the trajectory for the May 5, 1961 space flight of Alan Shepard, the first American in space. She also calculated the launch window for his 1961 Mercury mission. She plotted backup navigation charts for astronauts in case of electronic failures. When NASA used electronic computers for the first time to calculate John Glenn's orbit around Earth, officials called on Johnson to verify the computer's numbers; Glenn had asked for her specifically and had refused to fly unless Johnson verified the calculations. Biography.com states these were \"far more difficult calculations, to account for the gravitational pulls of celestial bodies\". Author Margot Lee Shetterly stated, \"So the astronaut who became a hero, looked to this black woman in the still-segregated South at the time as one of the key parts of making sure his mission would be a success.\" She added that, in a time where computing was \"women's work\" and engineering was left to men, \"it really does have to do with us over the course of time sort of not valuing that work that was done by women, however necessary, as much as we might. And it has taken history to get a perspective on that.\"\n\nJohnson later worked directly with digital computers. Her ability and reputation for accuracy helped to establish confidence in the new technology. In 1961, her work helped to ensure that Alan Shepard's Freedom 7 Mercury capsule would be quickly found after landing, using the accurate trajectory that had been established.\n\nShe also helped to calculate the trajectory for the 1969 Apollo 11 flight to the Moon. During the moon landing, Johnson was at a meeting in the Pocono Mountains. She and a few others crowded around a small television screen watching the first steps on the moon. In 1970, Johnson worked on the Apollo 13 moon mission. When the mission was aborted, her work on backup procedures and charts helped set a safe path for the crew's return to Earth, creating a one-star observation system that would allow astronauts to determine their location with accuracy. In a 2010 interview, Johnson recalled, \"Everybody was concerned about them getting there. We were concerned about them getting back.\" Later in her career, Johnson worked on the Space Shuttle program, the Earth Resources Satellite, and on plans for a mission to Mars.\n\nIn 1939, Katherine (then Coleman) married James Francis Goble. They had three daughters: Constance, Joylette, and Katherine. In 1953, she and James moved their family to Newport News to pursue a new job opportunity. In 1956, James Goble died due to an inoperable brain tumor.\n\nKatherine Goble remarried in 1959 to James A. Johnson, who had been a second lieutenant in the army and was a veteran of the Korean War.\n\nKatherine Johnson continued her career at NASA. She sang in the choir of Carver Presbyterian Church for 50 years. She has been a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha since college, the first sorority established by and for African-American women. Johnson and her husband, who have six grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren, live in Hampton, Virginia.\nShe continues to encourage her grandchildren and students to pursue careers in science and technology.\n\nJohnson co-authored 26 scientific papers. Her social influence as a pioneer in space science and computing is demonstrated by the honors she has received and her status as a role model for a life in science. Since 1979 (before she retired from NASA), Johnson has been listed among African Americans in science and technology. Johnson was named West Virginia State College Outstanding Alumnus of the Year in 1999. President Barack Obama presented Johnson with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, one of 17 Americans so honored on November 24, 2015. She was cited as a pioneering example of African-American women in STEM.\n\nOn May 5, 2016, a new building was named \"Katherine G. Johnson Computational Research Facility\" and formally dedicated at the agency's Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia. The facility officially opened its doors on September 22, 2017. Johnson attended this event, which also marked the 55th anniversary of astronaut Alan Shepard's historic rocket launch and splashdown, a success Johnson helped achieve. At the ceremony, deputy director Lewin said this about Johnson: \"Millions of people around the world watched Shepard's flight, but what they didn't know at the time was that the calculations that got him into space and safely home were done by today's guest of honor, Katherine Johnson\". During the event, Johnson also received a Silver Snoopy award; often called the astronaut's award, NASA stated it is given to those \"who have made outstanding contributions to flight safety and mission success\".\n\nIn 2016, Johnson was included in the list of \"100 Women\", BBC's list of 100 influential women worldwide. NASA stated, \"Her calculations proved as critical to the success of the Apollo Moon landing program and the start of the Space Shuttle program, as they did to those first steps on the country's journey into space.\"\nJohnson has been portrayed in the media. The highly acclaimed film \"Hidden Figures\", released in December 2016, was based on the non-fiction book of the same title by Margot Lee Shetterly, which was published earlier that year. It follows Johnson and other female African-American mathematicians (Mary Jackson and Dorothy Vaughan) who worked at NASA. Taraji P. Henson plays Johnson in the film. Appearing alongside Henson at the 89th Academy Awards, Johnson received a standing ovation from the audience. In an earlier interview, Johnson offered the following comment about the movie: \"It was well-done. The three leading ladies did an excellent job portraying us.\" In a 2016 episode of the NBC series \"Timeless,\" titled \"Space Race\", the mathematician is portrayed by Nadine Ellis.\n\nWest Virginia State University announced plans for an endowed STEM scholarship in honor of Johnson and a life-size statue of her on campus. On May 12, 2018 she was awarded an honorary doctorate by the College of William and Mary.\n\nIn 2016, science writer Maia Weinstock developed a prototype Lego for Women of NASA and included Johnson, who declined to have her likeness printed for the final product. In 2018, Mattel announced a Barbie doll in the likeness of Johnson, with a NASA identity badge.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "369186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369186", "title": "Kathleen Blanco", "text": "Kathleen Blanco\n\nKathleen Babineaux Blanco (born December 15, 1942) is an American politician who served as the 54th Governor of Louisiana from January 2004 to January 2008. A member of the Democratic Party, she is the first woman to have been elected as governor of Louisiana.\n\nWhen first elected, Blanco outlined her top priorities as providing affordable healthcare, improving the education system in the state, and helping to create a strong and vibrant economy through aggressive economic development initiatives. Her work as governor changed dramatically when, in 2005, coastal Louisiana was severely damaged by two hurricanes that struck less than a month apart. In August, Hurricane Katrina devastated the New Orleans region, an urban area of 1.4 million people. Then, in September, Hurricane Rita struck the southwestern coast, displacing another 300,000 people. More than 200,000 housing units were destroyed, 81,000 businesses closed, entire electrical and telecommunication systems were torn apart, and one million people were made homeless as a result of severe flooding caused by levee failures and storm surges.\n\nMany believed the immediate response from the city, state, and federal governments was inadequate, and Blanco later acknowledged there were failures on the part of her administration before and after the storm; much criticism, however, was directed at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for what was seen as a slow initial response to the disaster and an inability to effectively manage, care for and delivered promised resources to those trying to evacuate from New Orleans.\n\nBlanco announced in March 2007 that she would not seek re-election later that year, saying that she would instead \"focus [her] time and energy for the [remainder of her term] on the people's work, not on [the] politics\" of running for another term.\n\nShe was born Kathleen Babineaux in New Iberia, Louisiana, the daughter of Louis Babineaux and his wife, the former Lucille Fremin, both of Cajun ancestry. Her Babineaux grandfather was a farmer and grocer with a country store, and her father was a small businessman who moved to the rural hamlet of Coteau, a community near New Iberia with one church and one elementary school. Blanco attended Mount Carmel Academy, an all-girls school run by the Roman Catholic Sisters of Mount Carmel, which was situated on the banks of Bayou Teche. In 1964, Blanco received a Bachelor of Science in Business Education from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, then named the University of Southwestern Louisiana. She is also a member of Kappa Delta Sorority. On August 8, 1964, she married Raymond Blanco, a football coach and educator; the couple had four daughters: Karmen, Monique, Nicole, and Pilar and two sons: Ray Jr., and Ben.\n\nFollowing college, she taught business at Breaux Bridge High School. She then worked for roughly fifteen years as a stay-at-home mom for her six children. She later worked as a District Manager for the U.S. Department of Commerce during the 1980 Decennial Census initiative and with her husband, owned Coteau Consultants, a political and marketing research firm.\n\nPrior to her election as governor, Blanco served twenty years in public office. In 1983, elected as the first woman legislator from the city of Lafayette, she served five years in the Louisiana House of Representatives. In her first term, she and her friend Evelyn Blackmon of West Monroe were two of only five women in both houses of the legislature. Blanco in 1988 defeated the Republican Kernan \"Skip\" Hand to become the first woman in Louisiana elected to the Louisiana Public Service Commission, a post that she held for seven years, She was also the first woman chairman of the PSC. She was then elected Lieutenant Governor, a post that she held for eight years.\n\nBlanco was elected on November 15, 2003, defeating her Republican opponent Bobby Jindal in the general election, by a margin of 52 to 48 percent. On January 12, 2004, she took the oath of office in both English and French languages, succeeding Murphy J. Foster Jr. She retained Foster's chief of staff Andy Kopplin. She named as the new state commissioner of administration Jerry Luke LeBlanc, who had succeeded her in the state House in 1989 when she became a public service commissioner. Blanco traveled more than her predecessor, seeking new sources of economic development for the state. She visited Nova Scotia and in December 2004 visited Cuba to boost its trade with the state. During this controversial visit, she met with President Fidel Castro, with whom the United States government had no formal diplomatic relations. In 2005, Blanco also visited the Asian countries of Japan, China, and Taiwan.\n\nDespite the upheaval of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, she met all of her initial goals by the end of her term, most notably prioritizing education investment from pre-kindergarten to the university level. She recruited a number of businesses to Louisiana and established policies to lay a foundation for the recovery of coastal Louisiana.\n\nAs governor, she was a member of the National Governors Association, and the Democratic Governors Association, and served as president of the Southern Governors' Association.\n\nBlanco tapped Donald E. Hines, a family physician from Bunkie in Avoyelles Parish, as the president of the state Senate. He who held the position during her entire administration.\n\nOn August 27, 2005, Blanco, speaking about Hurricane Katrina, told the media in Jefferson Parish, \"I believe we are prepared. That's the one thing that I've always been able to brag about.\" Later that day, she issued a request for federal assistance and USD $9 million in aid to U.S. President George W. Bush, which stated, \n\n... I have determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments, and that supplementary Federal assistance is necessary to save lives, protect property, public health, and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of a disaster. I am specifically requesting emergency protective measures, direct Federal Assistance, Individual and Household Program (IHP) assistance, Special Needs Program assistance, and debris removal.\n\nAlso in the requesting letter, the governor stated: \"In response to the situation, I have taken appropriate action under State law and directed the execution of the State Emergency Plan on August 26, 2005 in accordance with Section 501 (a) of the Stafford Act. A State of Emergency has been issued for the State in order to support the evacuations of the coastal areas in accordance with our State Evacuation Plan.\"\n\nFEMA issued a statement dated August 27, that President Bush authorized the allocation of federal resources, following a review of FEMA's analysis of the state's request for federal assistance. A White House statement of the same date also acknowledges this authorization of aid by President Bush. On August 28, Blanco sent a letter to President Bush, which increased the amount of aid requested to US $130 million. Mayor Ray Nagin, in response to the offer of an Amtrak train to evacuate New Orleans residents, rejected the offer, declared an emergency, and then canceled it. He then flew to Dallas with his family. President George Bush now declared a State of Emergency and brought in U.S. Army Lieutenant General Russel Honoré to be in charge of all forces. The President sent members of the National Guard, the U.S. Coast Guard, the carrier U.S.S. Bataan and the Air Force. It was the largest deployment of military forces on domestic territory since the Civil War.\n\nBlanco oversaw the massive evacuation of 93% of the New Orleans area and the subsequent rescue effort utilizing state employees, law enforcement agencies from across the state and nation, citizen volunteers, and federal emergency services such as the U.S. Coast Guard and other U.S. military forces. More than 60,000 people were rescued and removed from the affected region after the storm. As Commander-in-Chief of the Louisiana National Guard, Blanco called on her fellow governors for troop reinforcement as more than a third of her own soldiers and airmen were serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The response from states delivered nearly 40,000 troops to her command, one of the largest domestic activation of troops in the nation's history.\n\nOn September 1, 2005, with reports of looting and lawlessness escalating, Blanco announced she was sending 300 Louisiana National Guardsmen to supplement the New Orleans Police Department, saying,\n\nThese troops are fresh back from Iraq. They are well-trained, experienced, battle-tested and under my orders to restore order in the streets. These are some of the 40,000 extra troops that I have demanded. They have M-16's, and they're locked and loaded. When hoodlums victimize and inflict suffering on people at their wit's end, they're taking away our limited resources, or whatever resources we have, to save babies, or save children and to save good people. I have one message for these hoodlums. These troops know how to shoot and kill and they are more than willing to do so if necessary, and I expect they will.\n\nThis followed President Bush's statement that looters in New Orleans and elsewhere in the chaotic aftermath of Hurricane Katrina should be treated with \"zero tolerance.\"\n\nPresident Bush, during a visit to Louisiana on September 2, 2005, five days after the storm, offered to federalize the Louisiana National Guard to simplify the command structure. The Governor declined, because the Guard would then become part of the federal military forces and therefore lose much-needed policing powers. The President subsequently continued to press the offer, so Blanco rejected it in writing, citing the need for flexibility in National Guard operations, particularly the need for the Guard in areas other than New Orleans where the military was not currently operating. Governor Haley Barbour of Mississippi reportedly declined a similar offer from the President. Had either state's National Guard been federalized, they would not have been able to directly enforce state law (i.e. control looting) under the provisions of the 1878 Posse Comitatus Act. It has not previously been a policy during natural disasters to combine the command of National Guard and military operations under the authority of the President. President Bush had the power to take command of a state's National Guard units under the Insurrection Act of 1807 without the agreement of a state Governor, but no President had done this since Lyndon Johnson in the 1960s and President Bush had so far also declined to do so. However, Blanco and Major General Bennett Landreneau, Louisiana Adjutant General and senior Louisiana National Guard officer, co-operated closely with U.S. Army Lieutenant General Honoré, who was then commanding Federal military operations under Joint Task Force Katrina.\n\nCNN and Fox News reported the Louisiana Homeland Security Department (which operated under Blanco's authority) refused to allow the American Red Cross to enter the city of New Orleans. The American Red Cross confirms that the organization had not entered the city to provide aid, but also states that it is providing relief at the evacuation centers: \"As the remaining people are evacuated from New Orleans, the most appropriate role for the Red Cross is to provide a safe place for people to stay and to see that their emergency needs are met. We are fully staffed and equipped to handle these individuals once they are evacuated.\" The deputy director of Louisiana's Homeland Security Department, Colonel Jay Mayeaux, has stated that he asked the Red Cross to delay relief operations for 24 hours for logistical reasons, and by the time that was up the evacuations had already begun.\n\nOn September 14, after President Bush had accepted responsibility for all problems that occurred at the federal level, Blanco accepted responsibility for all problems that occurred at the state level. Blanco stated, \"At the state level, we must take a careful look at what went wrong and make sure it never happens again. The buck stops here, and as your governor, I take full responsibility.\" In 2006, a Congressional report stated that the \"National Response Plan did not adequately provide a way for federal assets to quickly supplement or, if necessary, supplant first responders.\"\n\nBlanco continued to press President Bush and Congress for additional recovery funds for Louisiana, pointing out the disparity in assistance received by Louisiana compared to neighboring Mississippi.\n\nEarly in 2006, Blanco was inducted into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame in Winnfield.\n\nOn June 19, 2006, Blanco announced that she would send the National Guard to patrol the streets of New Orleans after five teenagers were killed, in an effort to combat a greatly increased rate of violent crime.\n\nOn June 19, 2006, Blanco signed into law a ban on most forms of abortion (unless the life of the mother was in danger or her health would be permanently damaged) once it passed the state legislature. Although she felt exclusions for rape or incest would have \"been reasonable,\" she felt she should not veto based on those reasons. The bill would only go into effect if the United States Supreme Court reversed \"Roe v. Wade\".\n\nIn August 2006, Blanco filed a lawsuit and formally objected to the federal Gulf of Mexico lease sale \"to force the federal government to spend part of its oil and gas income from the Outer Continental Shelf to help shore up Louisiana's coastline\".\n\nIn December 2006, Blanco called a special session of the Louisiana State Legislature which she intended to use to dispense $2.1 billion worth of tax cuts, teacher raises, road projects and other spending programs. Legislators allied with Blanco attempted to lift a spending cap imposed by the state constitution, but Republican lawmakers rejected the governor's spending measure. The high-profile defeat further eroded Blanco's political reputation.\n\nBy late 2006 and early 2007, Blanco was facing increasingly heated accusations of delays in administering the Road Home Program, a state-run program which Blanco and the Louisiana Recovery Authority had set up following Katrina in order to distribute federal aid money to Katrina victims for damage to their homes. By January 2007, fewer than 250 of an estimated 100,000 applicants had received payments from the program, and many of the payments were apparently based on assessments which grossly undervalued the cost of damage to homes.\n\nFacing an upcoming re-election campaign with greatly reduced popularity, Blanco made repeated public criticisms of the administration of President Bush in January 2007. Noting that Bush neglected to mention Gulf Coast reconstruction in his 2007 State of the Union Address, Blanco called for a bipartisan Congressional investigation into the conduct of the Bush administration following Katrina, to determine whether partisan politics played a role in the slow response to the storm. This call followed comments by former Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) director Michael D. Brown, who claimed that the White House offer to federalize the National Guard in the days following the storm was part of a plan to upstage Blanco. Blanco has also publicly stated that Mississippi received preferential treatment because its governor, Haley Barbour, is Republican.\n\nBlanco announced on March 20, 2007 that she would not seek re-election. On January 14, 2008, Bobby Jindal succeeded her as governor. He defeated several opponents, including Foster Campbell of Bossier Parish, a former state senator and a member of the Louisiana Public Service Commission.\n\nIn December 2017, Blanco was diagnosed with an incurable form of liver cancer.\n\n\nThreshold > 50%\n\nFirst Ballot, October 24, 1987\n\n\nThreshold > 50%\n\nFirst Ballot, October 1, 1988\n\nSecond Ballot, November 8, 1988\n\n\nThreshold > 50%\n\nFirst Ballot, October 1, 1994\n\n\nThreshold > 50%\n\nFirst Ballot, October 21, 1995\n\nSecond Ballot, November 18, 1995\n\n\nThreshold > 50%\n\nFirst Ballot, October 23, 1999\n\n\nThreshold > 50%\n\nFirst Ballot, October 4, 2003\n\nSecond Ballot, November 15, 2003\n\n\n(1) Blanco's Inauguration as Louisiana's 54th Governor on January 12, 2004 \n\n(2) Final State of the State Address from April 30, 2007 \n\n(3) Blanco announcing she will not seek reelection from the Governor's Mansion on March 20, 2007 \n\n(4) Addressing joint session of the Louisiana State Legislature on December 8, 2006 \n\n"}
{"id": "1580978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1580978", "title": "Kimble Ainslie", "text": "Kimble Ainslie\n\nKimble F. Ainslie is a Canadian public policy analyst, pollster, market researcher, author and former political organizer based in Ontario, Canada.\n\nAinslie has a PhD in Political Science from York University, as well as degrees from the University of Western Ontario and Queen's University.\n\nHe was a paid political consultant in Southwestern Ontario for the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario from the mid-1970s to the early 1990s, and in 1994 helped to form the Reform Association of Ontario (Reform Ontario). Ainslie has conducted polling for the federal and provincial Conservatives and municipal candidates & incumbents since 1985. He polled the Reform Party of Canada in 1993.\n\nHe co-founded Reform Ontario with Reg Gosse of Kitchener in 1994. Reform Ontario attracted membership from most ridings across Ontario. The association was denied party status by the Ontario Election Commission in 1995.\n\nIn July 1995, Ainslie moved his residence to the state of Florida and continued his research and consulting practice in the U.S and Canada.\n\nFive years later, he was appointed Senior Research Analyst at the James Madison Institute in Tallahassee FL, and a year later Entitlements Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C..\n\nHe has been president of Nordex Research since its founding in 1985. Its predecessor company was Nordex Group, a public management consulting firm founded in 1977.\n\nAinslie has also worked for the Fraser Institute in Vancouver, the Mackinac Center for Public Policy in Michigan, Energy Probe in Toronto and was an occasional editorial writer for the \"National Post\" in 2002. He has written extensively on small business and venture capital policy in Canada, and on Canadian urban transportation, medical transportation and privatization, corporate welfare, social policy, charter schools and education.\n\nAs Entitlements Policy Analyst for the Cato Institute from 2001-2002, he wrote on U.S. welfare reform and workforce development policy. Ainslie criticized the George W. Bush Administration for insufficient attention to small business, for socializing workforce policy, for pressuring single mothers on social assistance to commit to marriage, and he encouraged the use of asset development for the working poor.\n\nHis commentary and interview remarks have appeared in the Washington Post, the National Post, the Globe and Mail, the Edmonton Journal, the Ottawa Citizen, the London Free Press, the K-W Record, and websites at Fox News, CBS.com, and National Public Radio. He remains a frequent commentator on talk radio in London, Ontario.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2005 he was a consulting executive to a ground transportation company in London, Ontario.\n\nAinslie has been adjunct professor of political science and public administration at universities in United States and Canada since 1979. In August 2007, The Copenhagen Institute published his book Financing the Gap: Small Capital and State Economic Development in Canada, 1943–2005.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2008 Ainslie served as full-time intervenor at the Ontario Energy Board where he presented arguments on 15 rate and policy cases.\n\nIn 2010, he developed a nationally innovative, online civic engagement model, a project that later attracted 770 registrants and more than 2600 submissions over a 7-month period in a major municipality in Southwestern Ontario on matters related to the environment, conservation and the economy.\n\nIn August 2012, Ainslie published \"Canadian Energy Politics and Canada-U.S. Relations, 1970-2012,\" in the Canadian journal Geopolitics of Energy, later referenced by the Financial Post.\n\nHe continues his professional practice in market research, public opinion polling, and market development consulting.\n"}
{"id": "17062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17062", "title": "Kwame Nkrumah", "text": "Kwame Nkrumah\n\nKwame Nkrumah PC (21 September 1909 – 27 April 1972) was a Ghanaian politician and revolutionary. He was the first prime minister and president of Ghana, having led the Gold Coast to independence from Britain in 1957. An influential advocate of Pan-Africanism, Nkrumah was a founding member of the Organisation of African Unity and winner of the Lenin Peace Prize in 1962.\n\nAfter twelve years abroad pursuing higher education, developing his political philosophy, and organising with other diasporic pan-Africanists, Nkrumah returned to the Gold Coast to begin his political career as an advocate of national independence. He formed the Convention People's Party, which achieved rapid success through its unprecedented appeal to the common voter. He became prime minister in 1952 and retained this position when Ghana declared independence from Britain in 1957. In 1960, Ghanaians approved a new constitution and elected Nkrumah president.\n\nHis administration was both socialist and nationalist. Thus it funded national industrial and energy projects, developed a strong national education system, and promoted a national (and pan-African) culture. Under Nkrumah, Ghana played a leading role in African international relations during the decolonisation period.\n\nHe was deposed in 1966 by the National Liberation Council which, under the supervision of international financial institutions, privatised many of the country's state corporations. Nkrumah lived the rest of his life in Guinea, of which he was named honorary co-president.\n\nKwame Nkrumah was born in about 1909 in Nkroful, Gold Coast (later known as Ghana ) to a poor and illiterate family. Nkroful was a small village in the Nzema area, in the far southwest of the Gold Coast, close to the frontier with the French colony of the Ivory Coast. His father did not live with the family, but worked in Half Assini where he pursued his goldsmith business until his death. Kwame Nkrumah was raised by his mother and his extended family, who lived together in traditional fashion, with more distant relatives often visiting. He lived a carefree childhood, spent in the village, in the bush, and on the nearby sea. By the naming customs of the Akan people, he was given the name Kwame, the name given to males born on a Saturday(depending on the tribe i.e. Ashanti or Fante). During his years as a student in the United States, though, he was known as \"Francis Nwia Kofi Nkrumah\" – Kofi is the name given to males born on Friday. He later changed his name to Kwame Nkrumah in 1945 in the UK, preferring the name \"Kwame\". According to Ebenezer Obiri Addo in his study of the future president, the name \"Nkrumah\", a name traditionally given to a ninth child, indicates that Kwame likely held that place in the house of his father, who had several wives. The name of his father is not known exactly; with most accounts only indicating that he was a goldsmith. But according to a Times newspaper interview, his father was Opanyin Kofi Nwiana Ngolomah, who hailed from Nkroful and belongs to Akan tribe of the Asona clan but stayed at Tarkwa-Nsuaem where he practiced his goldsmith business. Opanyin Ngolomah was respected for his wise counsel by those who sought his advice on traditional issues and domestic affairs; he died in 1927.\n\nKwame was the only child of his mother.\n\nNkrumah's mother sent him to the elementary school run by a Catholic mission at Half Assini, where he proved an adept student. A German Roman Catholic priest by the name of George Fischer was said to have profoundly influenced his elementary school education. Although his mother, whose name was Elizabeth Nyanibah (1876/77–1979), later stated his year of birth was 1912, Nkrumah wrote that he was born on 18 September 1909, a Saturday. Nyanibah, who hailed from Nsuaem and belongs to the Agona family, was a fishmonger and petty trader when she married his father. After eight days of his birth, his father named him as Francis Nwia-Kofi after a relative but later his parents named him as Francis Kwame Ngolomah. He progressed through the ten-year elementary programme in eight years. By about 1925 he was a student-teacher in the school, and had been baptised into the Catholic faith. While at the school, he was noticed by the Reverend Alec Garden Fraser, principal of the Government Training College (soon to become Achimota School) in the Gold Coast's capital, Accra. Fraser arranged for Nkrumah to train as a teacher at his school. Here, Columbia-educated deputy headmaster Kwegyir Aggrey exposed him to the ideas of Marcus Garvey and W. E. B. Du Bois. Aggrey, Fraser, and others at Achimota taught that there should be close co-operation between the races in governing the Gold Coast, but Nkrumah, echoing Garvey, soon came to believe that only when the black race governed itself could there be harmony between the races.\n\nAfter obtaining his Teacher's Certificate from the Prince of Wales' College at Achimota in 1930, Nkrumah was given a teaching post at the Roman Catholic primary school in Elmina in 1931, and after a year there, was made headmaster of the school at Axim. In Axim, he started to get involved in politics and founded the Nzima Literary Society. In 1933, he was appointed a teacher at the Catholic seminary at Amissano. Although the life there was strict, he liked it, and considered becoming a Jesuit. Nkrumah had heard journalist and future Nigerian president Nnamdi Azikiwe speak while a student at Achimota; the two men met and Azikiwe's influence increased Nkrumah's interest in black nationalism. The young teacher decided to further his education. Azikiwe had attended Lincoln College, a historically black college in Chester County, Pennsylvania, west of Philadelphia, and he advised Nkrumah to enroll there. Nkrumah, who had failed the entrance examination for London University, gained funds for the trip and his education from relatives. He traveled by way of Britain, where he learned, to his outrage, of Italy's invasion of Ethiopia, one of the few independent African nations. He arrived in the United States, in October 1935.\n\nAccording to historian John Henrik Clarke in his article on Nkrumah's American sojourn, \"the influence of the ten years that he spent in the United States would have a lingering effect on the rest of his life.\" Nkrumah had sought entry to Lincoln College some time before he began his studies there. On 1 March 1935, he sent the school a letter noting that his application had been pending for more than a year. When he arrived in New York in October 1935, he traveled to Pennsylvania, where he enrolled despite lacking the funds for the full semester. He soon won a scholarship that provided for his tuition at Lincoln. He remained short of funds through his time in the US. To make ends meet, he worked in menial jobs, including as a dishwasher. On Sundays, he visited black Presbyterian churches in Philadelphia and in New York.\n\nNkrumah completed a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology in 1939. Lincoln then appointed him an assistant lecturer in philosophy, and he began to receive invitations to be a guest preacher in Presbyterian churches in Philadelphia and New York. In 1939, Nkrumah enrolled at Lincoln's seminary and at the Ivy League University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He gained a Bachelor of Theology degree from Lincoln in 1942, the top student in the course. He earned from Penn the following year a Master of Arts degree in philosophy and a Master of Science in education. While at Penn, Nkrumah worked with the linguist William Everett Welmers, providing the spoken material that formed the basis of the first descriptive grammar of his native Fante dialect of the Akan language.\n\nNkrumah spent his summers in Harlem, a center of black life, thought and culture. He found housing and employment in New York City with difficulty and involved himself in the community. He spent many evenings listening to and arguing with street orators, and according to Clarke,\n\nNkrumah was an activist student, organising a group of expatriate African students in Pennsylvania and building it into the African Students Association of America and Canada, becoming its president. Some members felt that the group should aspire for each colony to gain independence on its own; Nkrumah urged a Pan-African strategy. Nkrumah played a major role in the Pan-African conference held in New York in 1944, which urged the United States, at the end of the Second World War, to help ensure Africa became developed and free.\n\nHis old teacher Aggrey had died in 1929 in the US, and in 1942 Nkrumah led traditional prayers for Aggrey at the gravesite. This led to a break between him and Lincoln, though after he rose to prominence in the Gold Coast, he returned in 1951 to accept an honorary degree. Nevertheless, Nkrumah's doctoral thesis remained uncompleted. He had adopted the forename Francis while at the Amissano seminary; in 1945 he took the name Kwame Nkrumah.\n\nNkrumah read books about politics and divinity, and tutored students in philosophy. In 1943 Nkrumah met Trinidadian Marxist C. L. R. James, Russian expatriate Raya Dunayevskaya, and Chinese-American Grace Lee Boggs, all of whom were members of an American-based Trotskyist intellectual cohort. Nkrumah later credited James with teaching him \"how an underground movement worked\". Federal Bureau of Investigation files on Nkrumah, kept from January to May 1945, identify him as a possible communist. Nkrumah was determined to go to London, wanting to continue his education there now that the Second World War had ended. James, in a 1945 letter introducing Nkrumah to Trinidad-born George Padmore in London, wrote: \"This young man is coming to you. He is not very bright, but nevertheless do what you can for him because he's determined to throw Europeans out of Africa.\"\n\nNkrumah returned to London in May 1945 and enrolled at the London School of Economics as a PhD candidate in anthropology. He withdrew after one term and the next year enrolled at University College, with the intent to write a philosophy dissertation on \"Knowledge and Logical Positivism\". His supervisor, A. J. Ayer, declined to rate Nkrumah as a \"first-class philosopher\", saying, \"I liked him and enjoyed talking to him but he did not seem to me to have an analytical mind. He wanted answers too quickly. I think part of the trouble may have been that he wasn't concentrating very hard on his thesis. It was a way of marking time until the opportunity came for him to return to Ghana.\" Finally, Nkrumah enrolled in, but did not complete, a study in law at Gray's Inn.\n\nNkrumah spent his time on political organising. He and Padmore were among the principal organisers, and co-treasurers, of the Fifth Pan-African Congress in Manchester (15–19 October 1945). The Congress elaborated a strategy for supplanting colonialism with African socialism. They agreed to pursue a federal United States of Africa, with interlocking regional organisations, governing through separate states of limited sovereignty. They planned to pursue a new African culture without tribalism, democratic within a socialist or communist system, synthesising traditional aspects with modern thinking, and for this to be achieved by nonviolent means if possible. Among those who attended the congress was the venerable W. E. B. Dubois along with some who later took leading roles in leading their nations to independence, including Hastings Banda of Nyasaland (which became Malawi), Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya, Obafemi Awolowo of Nigeria, and C. L. R. James.\n\nThe congress sought to establish ongoing African activism in Britain in conjunction with the West African National Secretariat (WANS) to work towards the decolonisation of Africa. Nkrumah became the secretary of WANS. In addition to seeking to organise Africans to gain their nations' freedom, Nkrumah sought to succour the many West African seamen who had been stranded, destitute, in London at the end of the war, and established a Coloured Workers Association to empower and succour them. The U.S. State Department and MI5 watched Nkrumah and the WANS, focusing on their links with Communism. Nkrumah and Padmore established a group called The Circle to lead the way to West African independence and unity; the group aimed to create a Union of African Socialist Republics. A document from The Circle, setting forth that goal, was found on Nkrumah upon his arrest in Accra in 1948, and was used against him by the British authorities.\n\nThe 1946 Gold Coast constitution gave Africans a majority on the Legislative Council for the first time. Seen as a major step towards self-government, the new arrangement prompted the colony's first true political party, founded in August 1947, the United Gold Coast Convention (UGCC). The UGCC sought self-government as quickly as possible. Since the leading members were all successful professionals, they needed to pay someone to run the party, and their choice fell on Nkrumah at the suggestion of Ako Adjei. Nkrumah hesitated, realising the UGCC was controlled by conservative interests, but decided that the new post gave him huge political opportunities, and accepted. After being questioned by British officials about his communist affiliations, Nkrumah boarded the MV \"Accra\" at Liverpool in November 1947 for the voyage home.\n\nAfter brief stops in Sierra Leone, Liberia, and the Ivory Coast, he arrived in the Gold Coast, and after a brief stay and reunion with his mother in Tarkwa, began work at the party's headquarters in Saltpond on 29 December 1947 where he worked as a general secretary. Nkrumah quickly submitted plans for branches of the UGCC to be established colony-wide, and for strikes if necessary to gain political ends. This activist stance divided the party's governing committee, which was led by J. B. Danquah. Nkrumah embarked on a tour to gain donations for the UGCC and establish new branches.\n\nAlthough the Gold Coast was politically more advanced than Britain's other West Africa colonies, there was considerable discontent. Postwar inflation had caused public anger at high prices, leading to a boycott of the small stores run by Arabs which began in January 1948. The cocoa bean farmers were upset because trees exhibiting swollen-shoot disease, but still capable of yielding a crop, were being destroyed by the colonial authorities. There were about 63,000 ex-servicemen in the Gold Coast, many of whom had trouble obtaining employment and felt the colonial government was doing nothing to address their grievances. Nkrumah and Danquah addressed a meeting of the Ex-Servicemen's Union in Accra on 20 February 1948, which was in preparation for a march to present a petition to the governor. When that demonstration took place on 28 February, there was gunfire from the British, prompting the 1948 Accra Riots, which spread throughout the country. According to Nkrumah's biographer, David Birmingham, \"West Africa's erstwhile \"model colony\" witnessed a riot and business premises were looted. The African Revolution had begun.\"\n\nThe government assumed that the UGCC was responsible for the unrest, and arrested six leaders, including Nkrumah and Danquah. The Big Six were incarcerated together in Kumasi, increasing the rift between Nkrumah and the others, who blamed him for the riots and their detention. After the British learned that there were plots to storm the prison, the six were separated, with Nkrumah sent to Lawra. They were freed in April 1948. Many students and teachers had demonstrated for their release, and been suspended; Nkrumah, using his own funds, began the Ghana National College. This, among other activities, led UGCC committee members to accuse him of acting in the party's name without authority. Fearing he would harm them more outside the party than within, they agreed to make him honorary treasurer. Nkrumah's popularity, already large, was increased with his founding of the \"Accra Evening News\", which was not a party organ but was owned by Nkrumah and others. He also founded the Committee on Youth Organisation (CYO) as a youth wing for the UGCC. It soon broke away and adopted the motto \"Self-Government Now\". The CYO united students, ex-servicemen, and market women. Nkrumah recounted in his autobiography that he knew that a break with the UGCC was inevitable, and wanted the masses behind him when the conflict occurred. Nkrumah's appeals for \"Free-Dom\" appealed to the great numbers of underemployed youths who had come from the farms and villages to the towns. \"Old hymn tunes were adapted to new songs of liberations which welcomed traveling orators, and especially Nkrumah himself, to mass rallies across the Gold Coast.\"\n\nBeginning in April 1949, there was considerable pressure on Nkrumah from his supporters to leave the UGCC and form his own party. On 12 June 1949, he announced the formation of the Convention People's Party (CPP), with the word \"convention\" chosen, according to Nkrumah, \"to carry the masses with us\". There were attempts to heal the breach with the UGCC; at one July meeting, it was agreed to reinstate Nkrumah as secretary and disband the CPP. But Nkrumah's supporters would not have it, and persuaded him to refuse the offer and remain at their head.\n\nThe CPP adopted the red cockerel as its symbol – a familiar icon for local ethnic groups, and a symbol of leadership, alertness, and masculinity. Party symbols and colours (red, white, and green) appeared on clothing, flags, vehicles, and houses. CPP operatives drove red-white-and-green vans across the country, playing music and rallying public support for the party and especially for Nkrumah. These efforts were wildly successful, especially because previous political efforts in the Gold Coast had focused exclusively on the urban intelligentsia.\n\nThe British convened a selected commission of middle-class Africans, including all of the Big Six except Nkrumah, to draft a new constitution that would give Ghana more self-government. Nkrumah saw, even before the commission reported, that its recommendations would fall short of full dominion status, and began to organise a Positive Action campaign. Nkrumah demanded a constituent assembly to write a constitution. When the governor, Charles Arden-Clarke, would not commit to this, Nkrumah called for Positive Action, with the unions beginning a general strike to begin on 8 January 1950. The strike quickly led to violence, and Nkrumah and other CPP leaders were arrested on 22 January, and the \"Evening News\" was banned. Nkrumah was sentenced to a total of three years in prison, and he was incarcerated with common criminals in Accra's Fort James.\n\nNkrumah's assistant, Komla Agbeli Gbedemah, ran the CPP in his absence; the imprisoned leader was able to influence events through smuggled notes written on toilet paper. The British prepared for an election for the Gold Coast under their new constitution, and Nkrumah insisted that the CPP contest all seats. The situation had become calmer once Nkrumah was arrested, and the CPP and the British worked together to prepare electoral rolls. Nkrumah stood, from prison, for a directly-elected Accra seat. Gbedemah worked to set up a nationwide campaign organisation, using vans with loudspeakers to blare the party's message. The UGCC failed to set up a nationwide structure, and proved unable to take advantage of the fact that many of its opponents were in prison.\n\nIn the February 1951 legislative election, the first general election to be held under universal franchise in colonial Africa, the CPP was elected in a landslide. The CPP secured 34 of the 38 seats contested on a party basis, with Nkrumah elected for his Accra constituency. The UGCC won three seats, and one was taken by an independent. Arden-Clarke saw that the only alternative to Nkrumah's freedom was the end of the constitutional experiment. Nkrumah was released from prison on 12 February, receiving a rapturous reception from his followers. The following day, Arden-Clarke sent for him and asked him to form a government.\n\nNkrumah faced several challenges as he assumed office. He had never served in government, and needed to learn that art. The Gold Coast was composed of four regions, several former colonies amalgamated into one. Nkrumah sought to unite them under one nationality, and bring the country to independence. Key to meeting the challenges was convincing the British that the CPP's programmes were not only practical, but inevitable, and Nkrumah and Arden-Clarke worked closely together. The governor instructed the civil service to give the fledgling government full support, and the three British members of the cabinet took care not to vote against the elected majority.\n\nPrior to the CPP taking office, British officials had prepared a ten-year plan for development. With demands for infrastructure improvements coming in from all over the colony, Nkrumah approved it in general, but halved the time to five years. The colony was in good financial shape, with reserves from years of cocoa profit held in London, and Nkrumah was able to spend freely. Modern trunk roads were built along the coast and within the interior. The rail system was modernised and expanded. Modern water and sewer systems were installed in most towns, where housing schemes were begun. Construction began on a new harbour at Tema, near Accra, and the existing port, at Takoradi, was expanded. An urgent programme to build and expand schools, from primary to teacher and trade training, was begun. From 1951 to 1956, the number of pupils being educated at the colony's schools rose from 200,000 to 500,000. Nevertheless, the number of graduates being produced was insufficient to the burgeoning civil service's needs, and in 1953, Nkrumah announced that though Africans would be given preference, the country would be relying on expatriate European civil servants for several years.\n\nNkrumah's title was Leader of Government Business in a cabinet chaired by Arden-Clarke. Quick progress was made, and in 1952, the governor withdrew from the cabinet, leaving Nkrumah as his prime minister, with the portfolios that had been reserved for expatriates going to Africans. There were accusations of corruption, and of nepotism, as officials, following African custom, attempted to benefit their extended families and their tribes. The recommendations following the 1948 riots had included elected local government rather than the existing system dominated by the chiefs. This was uncontroversial until it became clear that it would be implemented by the CPP. That party's majority in the Legislative Assembly passed legislation in late 1951 that shifted power from the chiefs to the chairs of the councils, though there was some local rioting as rates were imposed.\n\nNkrumah's retitling as prime minister had not given him additional power, and he sought constitutional reform that would lead to independence. In 1952, he consulted with the visiting Colonial Secretary, Oliver Lyttelton, who indicated that Britain would look favourably on further advancement, so long as the chiefs and other stakeholders had the opportunity to express their views. Initially skeptical of Nkrumah's socialist policies, Britain's MI5 had compiled large amounts of intelligence on Nkrumah through several sources, including tapping phones and mail interception under the codename of SWIFT. Beginning in October 1952, Nkrumah sought opinions from councils and from political parties on reform, and consulted widely across the country, including with opposition groups. The result the following year was a White Paper on a new constitution, seen as a final step before independence. Published in June 1953, the constitutional proposals were accepted both by the assembly and by the British, and came into force in April of the following year. The new document provided for an assembly of 104 members, all directly elected, with an all-African cabinet responsible for the internal governing of the colony. In the election on 15 June 1954, the CPP won 71, with the regional Northern People's Party forming the official opposition.\n\nA number of opposition groups formed the National Liberation Movement. Their demands were for a federal, rather than a unitary government for an independent Gold Coast, and for an upper house of parliament where chiefs and other traditional leaders could act as a counter to the CPP majority in the assembly. They drew considerable support in the Northern Territory and among the chiefs in Ashanti, who petitioned the British queen, Elizabeth II, asking for a Royal Commission into what form of government the Gold Coast should have. This was refused by her government, who in 1955 stated that such a commission should only be used if the people of the Gold Coast proved incapable of deciding their own affairs. Amid political violence, the two sides attempted to reconcile their differences, but the NLM refused to participate in any committee with a CPP majority. The traditional leaders were also incensed by a new bill that had just been enacted, which allowed minor chiefs to appeal to the government in Accra, bypassing traditional chiefly authority. The British were unwilling to leave unresolved the fundamental question as to how an independent Gold Coast should be governed, and in June 1956, the Colonial Secretary, Alan Lennox-Boyd announced that there would be another general election in the Gold Coast, and if a \"reasonable majority\" took the CPP's position, Britain would set a date for independence. The results of the July 1956 election were almost identical to those from four years before, and on 3 August the assembly voted for independence under the name Nkrumah had proposed in April, Ghana. In September, the Colonial Office announced independence day would be 6 March 1957.\n\nThe opposition was not satisfied with the plan for independence, and demanded that power be devolved to the regions. Discussions took place through late 1956 and into 1957. Although Nkrumah did not compromise on his insistence on a unitary state, the nation was divided into five regions, with power devolved from Accra, and the chiefs having a role in their governments. On 21 February 1957, the British prime minister, Harold Macmillan, announced that Ghana would be a full member of the Commonwealth of Nations with effect from 6 March.\n\nGhana became independent on 6 March 1957. As the first of Britain's African colonies to gain majority-rule independence, the celebrations in Accra were the focus of world attention; over 100 reporters and photographers covered the events. United States President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent congratulations and his vice president, Richard Nixon, to represent the U.S. at the events. The Soviet delegation urged Nkrumah to visit Moscow as soon as possible. Ralph Bunche, an African American, was there for the United Nations, while the Duchess of Kent represented Queen Elizabeth. Offers of assistance poured in from across the world. Even without them, the country seemed prosperous, with cocoa prices high and the potential of new resource development.\n\nAs the fifth of March turned to the sixth, Nkrumah stood before tens of thousands of supporters and proclaimed, \"Ghana will be free forever.\" He spoke at the first session of the Ghana Parliament that Independence Day, telling his new country's citizens that \"we have a duty to prove to the world that Africans can conduct their own affairs with efficiency and tolerance and through the exercise of democracy. We must set an example to all Africa.\"\n\nNkrumah was hailed as the \"Osagyefo\" – which means \"redeemer\" in the Akan language. This independence ceremony included the Duchess of Kent and Governor General Charles Arden-Clarke. With more than 600 reporters in attendance, Ghanaian independence became one of the most internationally reported news events in modern African history.\n\nThe flag of Ghana designed by Theodosia Okoh, inverting Ethiopia's green-yellow-red Lion of Judah flag and replacing the lion with a black star. Red symbolises bloodshed; green stands for beauty, agriculture, and abundance; yellow represents mineral wealth; and the Black Star represents African freedom. The country's new coat of arms, designed by Amon Kotei, includes eagles, a lion, a St. George's Cross, and a Black Star, with copious gold and gold trim. Philip Gbeho was commissioned to compose the new national anthem, \"God Bless Our Homeland Ghana\".\n\nAs a monument to the new nation, Nkrumah opened Black Star Square near Osu Castle in the coastal district of Osu, Accra. This square would be used for national symbolism and mass patriotic rallies.\n\nUnder Nkrumah's leadership, Ghana adopted some socialist policies and practices. Nkrumah created a welfare system, started various community programs, and established schools.\n\nNkrumah had only a short honeymoon before there was unrest among his people. The government deployed troops to Togoland to quell unrest following a disputed plebiscite on membership in the new country. A serious bus strike in Accra stemmed from resentments among the Ga people, who believed members of other tribes were getting preferential treatment in government promotion, and this led to riots there in August. Nkrumah's response was to repress local movements by the Avoidance of Discrimination Act (6 December 1957), which banned regional or tribally-based political parties. Another strike at tribalism fell in Ashanti, where Nkrumah and the CPP got most local chiefs who were not party supporters destooled. These repressive actions concerned the opposition parties, who came together to form the United Party under Kofi Abrefa Busia.\n\nIn 1958, an opposition MP was arrested on charges of trying to obtain arms abroad for a planned infiltration of the Ghana Army (GA). Nkrumah was convinced there had been an assassination plot against him, and his response was to have the parliament pass the Preventive Detention Act, allowing for incarceration for up to five years without charge or trial, with only Nkrumah empowered to release prisoners early. According to Nkrumah's biographer, David Birmingham, \"no single measure did more to bring down Nkrumah's reputation than his adoption of internment without trial for the preservation of security.\" Nkrumah intended to bypass the British-trained judiciary, which he saw as opposing his plans when they subjected them to constitutional scrutiny.\n\nAnother source of irritation was the regional assemblies, which had been organised on an interim basis pending further constitutional discussions. The opposition, which was strong in Ashanti and the north, proposed significant powers for the assemblies; the CPP wanted them to be more or less advisory. In 1959, Nkrumah used his majority in the parliament to push through the Constitutional Amendment Act, which abolished the assemblies and allowed the parliament to amend the constitution with a simple majority.\n\nQueen Elizabeth II remained sovereign over Ghana from 1957 to 1960. William Hare, 5th Earl of Listowel was the Governor-General, and Nkrumah remained Prime Minister. On 6 March 1960, Nkrumah announced plans for a new constitution which would make Ghana a republic, headed by a president with broad executive and legislative powers. The draft included a provision to surrender Ghanaian sovereignty to a Union of African States. On 19, 23, and 27 April 1960 a presidential election and plebiscite on the constitution were held. The constitution was ratified and Nkrumah was elected president over J. B. Danquah, the UP candidate, 1,016,076 to 124,623. Ghana remained a part of the British-led Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nNkrumah also sought to eliminate \"tribalism\", a source of loyalties held more deeply than those to the nation-state. Thus, as he wrote in \"Africa Must Unite\": \"We were engaged in a kind of war, a war against poverty and disease, against ignorance, against tribalism and disunity. We needed to secure the conditions which could allow us to pursue our policy of reconstruction and development.\" To this end, in 1958, his government passed \"An Act to prohibit organisations using or engaging in racial or religious propaganda to the detriment of any other racial or religious community, or securing the election of persons on account of their racial or religious affiliations, or for other purposes in connection therewith.\" Nkrumah attempted to saturate the country in national flags, and declared a widely disobeyed ban on tribal flags.\n\nKofi Abrefa Busia of the United Party (Ghana) gained prominence as an opposition leader in the debate over this Act, taking a more classically liberal position and criticising the ban on tribal politics as repressive. Soon after, he left the country. Nkrumah was also a very flamboyant leader. \"The New York Times\" in 1972 wrote: \"During his high‐flying days as the leader of Ghana in the 1950s and early 1960s, Kwame Nkrumah was a flamboyant spellbinder. At home, he created a cult of personality and gloried in the title of 'Osagyefo' (Redeemer). Abroad, he rubbed elbows with the world's leaders as the first man to lead an African colony to independence after World War II.\"\n\nDuring his tenure as Prime Minister and then President, Nkrumah succeeded in reducing the political importance of the local chieftaincy (e.g., the Akan chiefs and the Asantehene). These chiefs had maintained authority during colonial rule through collaboration with the British authorities; in fact, they were sometimes favoured over the local intelligentsia, who made trouble for the British with organisations like the Aborigines' Rights Protection Society. The Convention People's Party had a strained relationship with the chiefs when it came to power, and this relationship became more hostile as the CPP incited political opposition chiefs and criticised the institution as undemocratic. Acts passed in 1958 and 1959 gave the government more power to destool chiefs directly, and proclaimed government of stool land – and revenues. These policies alienated the chiefs and led them to looking favorably on the overthrow of Nkrumah and his Party.\n\nIn 1962, three younger members of the CPP were brought up on charges of taking part in a plot to blow up Nkrumah's car in a motorcade. The sole evidence against the alleged plotters was that they rode in cars well behind Nkrumah's car. When the defendants were acquitted, Nkrumah sacked the chief judge of the state security court, then got the CPP-dominated parliament to pass a law allowing a new trial. At this second trial, all three men were convicted and sentenced to death, though these sentences were subsequently commuted to life imprisonment. Shortly afterward, the constitution was amended to give the president the power to summarily remove judges at all levels.\n\nIn 1964, Nkrumah proposed a constitutional amendment which would make the CPP the only legal party . The amendment passed with 99.91 percent of the vote, an implausibly high total that led observers to condemn the vote as \"obviously rigged\". Ghana had effectively been a one-party state since independence. The amendment transformed Nkrumah's presidency into a \"de facto\" legal dictatorship.\n\nAfter substantial Africanisation of the civil service in 1952–60, the number of expatriates rose again from 1960 to 1965. Many of the new outside workers came not from the United Kingdom but from the Soviet Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Italy, and the United Nations.\n\nIn 1951, the CPP created the Accelerated Development Plan for Education. This plan set up a six-year primary course, to be attended as close to universally as possible, with a range of possibilities to follow. All children were to learn arithmetic, as well as gain \"a sound foundation for citizenship with permanent literacy in both English and the vernacular.\" Primary education became compulsory in 1962. The plan also stated that religious schools would no longer receive funding, and that some existing missionary schools would be taken over by government.\n\nIn 1961, Nkrumah laid the first stones in the foundation of the Kwame Nkrumah Ideological Institute created to train Ghanaian civil servants as well as promote Pan-Africanism. In 1964, all students entering college in Ghana were required to attend a two-week \"ideological orientation\" at the Institute. Nkrumah remarked that \"trainees should be made to realize the party's ideology is religion, and should be practiced faithfully and fervently.\"\n\nIn 1964, Nkrumah brought forth the Seven Year Development Plan for National Reconstruction and Development, which identified education as a key source of development and called for the expansion of secondary technical schools. Secondary education would also include \"in-service training programmes\". As Nkrumah told Parliament: \"Employers, both public and private, will be expected to make a far greater contribution to labour training through individual factory and farm schools, industry-wide training schemes, day release, payment for attendance at short courses and evening classes.\" This training would be indirectly subsidised with tax credits and import allocations.\n\nIn 1952, the Artisan Trading Scheme, arranged with the Colonial Office and UK Ministry of Labour, provided for a few experts in every field to travel to Britain for technical education. Kumasi Technical Institute was founded in 1956. In September 1960, it added the Technical Teacher Training Centre. In 1961, the CPP passed the Apprentice Act, which created a general Apprenticeship Board along with committees for each industry.\n\nNkrumah promoted pan-African culture, calling for international libraries and cooperative efforts to study history and culture. He decried the norms of white supremacy and Eurocentrism imposed by British textbooks and cultural institutions. He wore a traditional northern robe, fugu, but donned Kente cloth, from the south, for ceremonies, in order to symbolise his identity as a representative of the whole country. He oversaw the opening of the Ghana Museum on 5 March 1957; the Arts Council of Ghana, a wing of the Ministry of Education and Culture, in 1958; the Research Library on African Affairs in June, 1961; and the Ghana Film Corporation in 1964. In 1962, Nkrumah opened the Institute of African Studies.\n\nA campaign against nudity in the northern part of the country received special attention from Nkrumah, who reportedly deployed Propaganda Secretary Hannah Cudjoe to respond. Cudjoe also formed the Ghana Women's League, which advanced the Party's agenda on nutrition, raising children, and wearing clothing. The League also led a demonstration against the detonation of French nuclear weapons in the Sahara. Cudjoe was eventually demoted with the consolidation of national women's groups, and marginalised within the Party structure.\n\nLaws passed in 1959 and 1960 designated special positions in parliament to be held by women. Some women were promoted to the CPP Central Committee. Women attended more universities, took up more professions including medicine and law, and went on professional trips to Israel, the Soviet Union, and the Eastern Bloc. Women also entered the army and air force. Most women remained in agriculture and trade; some received assistance from the Co-operative Movement.\n\nNkrumah's image was widely disseminated, for example, on postage stamps and on money, in the style of monarchs – providing fodder for accusations of a Nkrumahist personality cult.\n\nIn 1957, Nkrumah created a well-funded Ghana News Agency to generate domestic news and disseminate it abroad. In ten years time the GNA had 8045 km of domestic telegraph line, and maintained stations in Lagos, Nairobi, London, and New York City.\n\nNkrumah consolidated state control over newspapers, establishing the \"Ghanaian Times\" in 1958 and then in 1962 obtaining its competitor, the \"Daily Graphic\", from the Mirror Group of London. As he wrote in \"Africa Must Unite\": \"It is part of our revolutionary credo that within the competitive system of capitalism, the press cannot function in accordance with a strict regard for the sacredness of facts, and that the press, therefore, should not remain in private hands.\" Starting in 1960, he invoked the right of pre-publication censorship of all news.\n\nThe Gold Coast Broadcasting Service was established in 1954 and revamped as the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC). Many television broadcasts featured Nkrumah, commenting for example on the problematic \"insolence and laziness of boys and girls\". Before celebrations of May Day, 1963, Nkrumah went on television to announce the expansion of Ghana's Young Pioneers, the introduction of a National Pledge, the beginning of a National Flag salute in schools, and the creation of a National Training program to inculcate virtue and the spirit of service among Ghanaian youth. Quoth Nkrumah (to Parliament, on 15 October 1963), \"Ghana's television will not cater for cheap entertainment or commercialism; its paramount objective will be education in its broadest and purest sense.\"\n\nAs per the 1965 Instrument of Incorporation of the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation, the Minister of Information and Broadcasting had \"powers of direction\" over the media, and the President had the power \"at any time, if he is satisfied that it is in the national interest to do so, take over the control and management of the affairs or any part of the functions of the Corporation,\" hiring, firing, reorganising, and making other commands at will.\n\nRadio programs, designed in part to reach non-reading members of the public, were a major focus of the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation. In 1961, the GBC formed an external service broadcasting in English, French, Arabic, Swahili, Portuguese, and Hausa. Using four 100-kilowatt transmitters and two 250-kilowatt transmitters, the GBC External Service broadcast 110 hours of Pan-Africanist programming to Africa and Europe each week.\n\nHe refused advertising in all media, beginning with the \"Evening News\" of 1948.\n\nThe Gold Coast had been among the wealthiest and most socially advanced areas in Africa, with schools, railways, hospitals, social security, and an advanced economy.\n\nNkrumah attempted to rapidly industrialise Ghana's economy. He reasoned that if Ghana escaped the colonial trade system by reducing dependence on foreign capital, technology, and material goods, it could become truly independent.\n\nAfter the Ten Year Development Plan, Nkrumah brought forth the Second Development Plan in 1959. This plan called for the development of manufacturing: 600 factories producing 100 varieties of product.\n\nThe Statutory Corporations Act, passed in November 1959 and revised in 1961 and 1964, created the legal framework for public corporations, which included state enterprises. This law placed the country's major corporations under the direction of government ministers. The State Enterprises Secretariat office was located in Flagstaff House and under the direct control of the president.\n\nAfter visiting the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, and China in 1961, Nkrumah apparently became still more convinced of the need for state control of the economy.\n\nNkrumah's time in office began successfully: forestry, fishing, and cattle-breeding expanded, production of cocoa (Ghana's main export) doubled, and modest deposits of bauxite and gold were exploited more effectively. The construction of a dam on the Volta River (launched in 1961) provided water for irrigation and hydro-electric power, which produced enough electricity for the towns and for a new aluminum plant. Government funds were also provided for village projects in which local people built schools and roads, while free health care and education were introduced.\n\nA Seven-Year Plan introduced in 1964 focused on further industrialisation, emphasising domestic substitutes for common imports, modernisation of the building materials industry, machine making, electrification, and electronics.\n\nNkrumah's advocacy of industrial development, with help of longtime friend and Minister of Finance, Komla Agbeli Gbedema, led to Volta River Project: the construction of a hydroelectric power plant, the Akosombo Dam on the Volta River in eastern Ghana. The Volta River Project was the centrepiece of Nkrumah's economic program. On 20 February 1958, he told the National Assembly: \"It is my strong belief that the Volta River Project provides the quickest and most certain method of leading us towards economic independence.\" Ghana invoked assistance from the United States, Israel, and the World Bank in constructing the dam.\n\nKaiser Aluminum agreed to build the dam for Nkrumah, but restricted what could be produced using the power generated. Nkrumah borrowed money to build the dam, and placed Ghana in debt. To finance the debt, he raised taxes on the cocoa farmers in the south. This accentuated regional differences and jealousy. The dam was completed and opened by Nkrumah amidst world publicity on 22 January 1966.\n\nNkrumah initiated the Ghana Nuclear Reactor Project in 1961, created the Ghana Atomic Energy Commission in 1963, and in 1964 laid the first stone in the building of an atomic energy facility.\n\nIn 1954, the world price of cocoa rose from £150 to £450 per ton. Rather than allowing cocoa farmers to keep the windfall, Nkrumah appropriated the increased revenue via central government levies, then invested the capital into various national development projects. This policy alienated one of the major constituencies that helped him come to power.\n\nPrices continued to fluctuate. In 1960, one ton of cocoa sold for £250 in London. By August 1965, this price had dropped to £91, one fifth of its value ten years before.\n\nNkrumah actively promoted a policy of Pan-Africanism from the beginning of his presidency. This entailed the creation of a series of new international organisations, which held their inaugural meetings in Accra. These were:\n\nMeanwhile, Ghana withdrew from colonial organisations including West Africa Airways Corporation, the West African Currency Board, the West African Cocoa Research Institute, and the West African Court of Appeal.\n\nIn the Year of Africa, 1960, Nkrumah negotiated the creation of a Union of African States, a political alliance between Ghana, Guinea, and Mali. Immediately there formed a women's group called Women of the Union of African States.\n\nNkrumah was a leading figure in the short-lived Casablanca Group of African leaders, which sought to achieve pan-African unity and harmony through deep political, economic, and military integration of the continent in the early 1960s prior to the establishment of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU).\n\nNkrumah was instrumental in the creation of the OAU in Addis Ababa in 1963. He aspired to create a united military force, the African High Command, which Ghana would substantially lead, and committed to this vision in Article 2 of the 1960 Republican Constitution: \"In the confident expectation of an early surrender of sovereignty to a union of African states and territories, the people now confer on Parliament the power to provide for the surrender of the whole or any part of the sovereignty of Ghana.\"\n\nHe was also a proponent of the United Nations, but critical of the Great Powers' ability to control it.\n\nNkrumah opposed entry of African states into the Common Market of the European Economic Community, a status given to many former French colonies and considered by Nigeria. Instead, Nkrumah advocated, in a speech given on 7 April 1960,\n\nan African common market, a common currency area and the development of communications of all kinds to allow the free flow of goods and services. International capital can be attracted to such viable economic areas, but it would not be attracted to a divided and balkanised Africa, with each small region engaged in senseless and suicidal economic competition with its neighbours.\n\nIn 1956, Ghana took control of the Royal West African Frontier Force (RWAFF), Gold Coast Regiment, from the British War Office. This force had formerly been deployed to quell internal dissent, and occasionally to fight in wars: most recently, in World War II, against the Japanese in India and Burma. The most senior officers in this force were British, and, although training of African officers began in 1947, only 28 of 212 officers in December 1956 were indigenous Africans. The British officers still received British salaries, which vastly exceeded those allotted to their Ghanaian counterparts. Concerned about a possible military coup, Nkrumah delayed the placement of African officers in top leadership roles.\n\nNkrumah quickly established Ghanaian Air Force, acquiring 14 \"Beaver\" airplanes from Canada and setting up a flight school with British instructors. \"Otters\", \"Caribou,\" and \"Chipmunks\" were to follow. Ghana also obtained four Ilyushin-18 aircraft from the Soviet Union. Preparation began in April 1959 with assistance from India and Israel.\n\nThe Ghanaian Navy received two inshore minesweepers with 40- and 20-millimeter guns, the \"Afadzato\" and the \"Yogaga\", from Britain in December 1959. It subsequently received the \"Elmina\" and the \"Komenda\", seaward defense boats with 40-millimetre guns. The Navy's flagship, and training ship, was the \"Achimota\", a British yacht constructed during World War II. In 1961, the Navy ordered two 600-ton corvettes, the \"Keta\" and \"Kromantse,\" from Vosper & Company and received them in 1967. It also procured four Soviet patrol boats. Naval officers were trained at the Britannia Royal Naval College in Dartmouth. The Ghanaian military budget rose each year, from $9.35 million (US dollars) in 1958 to $47 million in 1965.\n\nThe first international deployment of the Ghanaian armed forces was to Congo (Léopoldville/Kinshasa), where Ghanaian troops were airlifted in 1960 at the beginning of the Congo crisis. One week after Belgian troops occupied the lucrative mining province of Katanga, Ghana dispatched more than a thousand of its own troops to join a United Nations force. The use of British officers in this context was politically unacceptable, and this event occasioned a hasty transfer of officer positions to Ghanaians. The Congo war was long and difficult. On 19 January 1961 the Third Infantry Battalion mutinied. On 28 April 1961, 43 men were massacred in a surprise attack by the Congolese army.\n\nGhana also gave military support to rebels fighting against Ian Smith's white-minority government in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), which had unilaterally declared independence from Britain in 1965.\n\nIn 1961, Nkrumah went on tour through Eastern Europe, proclaiming solidarity with the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn 1962 Kwame Nkrumah was awarded the Lenin Peace Prize by the Soviet Union.\n\nIn February 1966, while Nkrumah was on a state visit to North Vietnam and China, his government was overthrown in a violent \"coup d'état\" led by the national military and police forces, with backing from the civil service. The conspirators, led by Joseph Arthur Ankrah, named themselves the National Liberation Council and ruled as a military government for three years.\n\nNkrumah alluded to possible American complicity in the coup in his 1969 memoir \"Dark Days in Ghana\", though he may have based this conclusion on falsified documents shown to him by the KGB. In 1978 John Stockwell, former Chief of the Angola Task Force of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), wrote that agents at the CIA's Accra station \"maintained intimate contact with the plotters as a coup was hatched\". Afterward, \"inside CIA headquarters the Accra station was given full, if unofficial credit for the eventual coup. ...None of this was adequately reflected in the agency's written records.\" Later the same year, Seymour Hersh of \"The New York Times\", citing \"first hand intelligence sources,\" defended Stockwell's account, claiming that \"many CIA operatives in Africa considered the agency's role in the overthrow of Mr. Nkrumah to have been pivotal.\" These claims have never been verified.\n\nFollowing the coup, Ghana realigned itself internationally, cutting its close ties to Guinea and the Eastern Bloc, accepting a new friendship with the Western Bloc, and inviting the International Monetary Fund and World Bank to take a lead role in managing the economy. With this reversal, accentuated by the expulsion of immigrants and a new willingness to negotiate with apartheid South Africa, Ghana lost a good deal of its stature in the eyes of African nationalists.\n\nNkrumah never returned to Ghana, but he continued to push for his vision of African unity. He lived in exile in Conakry, Guinea, as the guest of President Ahmed Sékou Touré, who made him honorary co-president of the country. Nkrumah read, wrote, corresponded, gardened, and entertained guests. Despite retirement from public office, he felt that he was still threatened by Western intelligence agencies. When his cook died mysteriously, he feared that someone would poison him, and began hoarding food in his room. He suspected that foreign agents were going through his mail, and lived in constant fear of abduction and assassination. In failing health, he flew to Bucharest, Romania, for medical treatment in August 1971. He died of prostate cancer in April 1972 at the age of 62.\n\nNkrumah was buried in a tomb in the village of his birth, Nkroful, Ghana. While the tomb remains in Nkroful, his remains were transferred to a large national memorial tomb and park in Accra.\n\nOver his lifetime, Nkrumah was awarded honorary doctorates by many universities including Lincoln University (Pennsylvania), Moscow State University (USSR), Cairo University (Egypt), Jagiellonian University (Poland) and Humboldt University (East Germany).\n\nIn 2000, he was voted African Man of the Millennium by listeners to the BBC World Service, being described by the BBC as a \"Hero of Independence\", and an \"International symbol of freedom as the leader of the first black African country to shake off the chains of colonial rule.\"\n\nAccording to intelligence documents released by the U.S. Department of State's Office of the Historian, \"Nkrumah was doing more to undermine [U.S. government] interests than any other black African.\"\n\nIn September 2009, President John Atta Mills declared 21 September (the 100th anniversary of Kwame Nkrumah's birth) to be Founder's Day, a statutory holiday in Ghana to celebrate the legacy of Kwame Nkrumah.\n\nNkrumah called himself \"a scientific socialist and a Marxist\" and is considered relatively orthodox in his Marxism–Leninism. He generally took a non-aligned Marxist perspective on economics, and believed capitalism had malignant effects that were going to stay with Africa for a long time. Although he was clear on distancing himself from the African socialism of many of his contemporaries, Nkrumah argued that socialism was the system that would best accommodate the changes that capitalism had brought, while still respecting African values. He specifically addresses these issues and his politics in a 1967 essay entitled \"African Socialism Revisited\":\n\nWe know that the traditional African society was founded on principles of egalitarianism. In its actual workings, however, it had various shortcomings. Its humanist impulse, nevertheless, is something that continues to urge us towards our all-African socialist reconstruction. We postulate each man to be an end in himself, not merely a means; and we accept the necessity of guaranteeing each man equal opportunities for his development. The implications of this for socio-political practice have to be worked out scientifically, and the necessary social and economic policies pursued with resolution. Any meaningful humanism must begin from egalitarianism and must lead to objectively chosen policies for safeguarding and sustaining egalitarianism. Hence, socialism. Hence, also, scientific socialism.\n\nNkrumah was also best-known politically for his strong commitment to and promotion of pan-Africanism. He was inspired by the writings of black intellectuals such as Marcus Garvey, W. E. B. Du Bois, and George Padmore, and his relationships with them. Much of his understanding and relationship to these men was created during his years in America as a student. Some would argue that his greatest inspiration was Marcus Garvey, although he also had a meaningful relationship with C. L. R. James. Nkrumah looked to these men in order to craft a general solution to the ills of Africa. To follow in these intellectual footsteps Nkrumah had intended to continue his education in London, but found himself involved in direct activism. Then, motivated by advice from Du Bois, Nkrumah decided to focus on creating peace in Africa. He became a passionate advocate of the \"African Personality\" embodied in the slogan \"Africa for the Africans\" earlier popularised by Edward Wilmont Blyden and he viewed political independence as a prerequisite for economic independence. Nkrumah's dedications to pan-Africanism in action attracted these intellectuals to his Ghanaian projects. Many Americans, such as Du Bois and Kwame Ture, moved to Ghana to join him in his efforts. These men are buried there today. His press officer for six years was the Grenadian anticolonialist Sam Morris. Nkrumah's biggest success in this area was his significant influence in the founding of the Organisation of African Unity.\n\nNkrumah also became a symbol for black liberation in the United States. When in 1958 the Harlem Lawyers Association had an event in Nkrumah's honour, diplomat Ralph Bunche told him:\n\nWe salute you, Kwame Nkrumah, not only because you are Prime Minister of Ghana, although this is cause enough. We salute you because you are a true and living representation of our hopes and ideals, of the determination we have to be accepted fully as equal beings, of the pride we have held and nurtured in our African origin, of the freedom of which we know we are capable, of the freedom in which we believe, of the dignity imperative to our stature as men.\n\nIn 1961 Nkrumah delivered a speech called \"I Speak Of Freedom\". During this speech he talked about how \"Africa could become one of the greatest forces for good in the world\". He mentions how Africa is a land of \"vast riches\" with mineral resources from that \"range from gold and diamonds to uranium and petroleum\". Nkrumah says that the reason Africa isn't thriving right now is because the European powers have been taking all the wealth for themselves. If Africa could be independent of European rule then it could truly flourish and contribute positively to the world. In the ending words of this speech Nkrumah calls his people to action by saying \"This is our chance. We must act now. Tomorrow may be too late and the opportunity will have passed, and with it the hope of free Africa's survival\". This rallied the nation in a nationalistic movement.\n\nNkrumah married Fathia Ritzk, an Egyptian Coptic bank worker and former teacher, on the evening of her arrival in Ghana: New Year's Eve, 1957–1958. Fathia's mother refused to bless their marriage, due to reluctance to see another one of her children leave with a foreign husband.\n\nAs a married couple, the Nkrumah family had three children: Gamal (born 1959), Samia (born 1960), and Sekou (born 1963). Gamal is a newspaper journalist, while Samia and Sekou are politicians. Nkrumah also has another son, Francis, a paediatrician (born 1962). There appears to be another son, Onsy Anwar Nathan Kwame Nkrumah, born to an Egyptian mother and an additional daughter, Elizabeth. Onsy's claim to be Nkrumah's son is disputed by Nkrumah's other children.\n\nNkrumah is played by Danny Sapani in the Netflix television series \"The Crown\" (season 2, episode 8 \"Dear Mrs Kennedy\"). The portrayal of the historical significance of the queen's dance with Nkrumah in the show has been refuted as over exaggerated.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250989", "title": "Lilin", "text": "Lilin\n\nIn Mesopotamian demonology, Lilin (singular Lilim) were hostile night spirits that attacked men. They had less power than gods. This was also the Hebrew word for both the succubus and incubus spirits of other legends as a single concept. This word, however, only included the sons and daughters of Lilith or a Lilith-like creature. Older, more physically and mentally mature spirits were known as Lilitu in Hebrew mythology.\n\nIn Jewish mythology, \"Lilin\" (Hebrew: ) is a term for night spirits. In Targum Sheni Esther 1:3 King Solomon had lilin dance before him. Lilith and her children, the Lilim, are considered to be night spirits. Lilith is also considered by older Jewish tradition to be Cain's wife. \n\nIn the Syriac Apocalypse of Baruch, \"lilin\" come from the desert and they are similar to shedim.\n\n"}
{"id": "41303272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41303272", "title": "Linda Jaivin", "text": "Linda Jaivin\n\nLinda Jaivin (born 27 March 1955) is an American-born Australian translator, essayist, novelist and sinologist.\n\nLinda Jaivin was born in New London, Connecticut to a Jewish family of Russian heritage. Her interest in China led her to undertake Chinese studies at Brown University in Rhode Island. She moved to Taiwan in 1977 to deepen her knowledge of Chinese culture and language. Moving to Hong Kong in 1979, her first job there was editing textbooks for Oxford University Press. She worked for \"Asiaweek\" magazine, where she met the Australian scholar Geremie Barmé, whom she later married. They returned to Canberra, Australia in 1986. They divorced in 1994. She now lives in Sydney.\n\nJaivin has written a memoir of her experiences as a translator in China, \"The Monkey and the Dragon\", as well as a number of novels. She co-edited an anthology on dissident writers in China, \"New Ghosts, Old Dreams:Chinese Rebel Voices\" with Geremie Barmé, in 1992. Jaivin has contributed to a number of magazines including the Australian magazine of politics and culture, \"The Monthly\". She wrote for the \"Quarterly Essay\" \"Found in Translation: In Praise of a Plural World\" in November 2013. She has subtitled many Chinese films, including \"Farewell my Concubine\" and \"The Grandmaster.\" Jaivin has been a guest on the ABC radio program \"The Book Show\" and a panelist on \"Q&A\" and other programs.\n\n\n\n\nHer grandfathers were Jewish refugees from Tsarist Russia. who emigrated to Argentina and the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "42061773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42061773", "title": "List of Akan people", "text": "List of Akan people\n\nThe list of Akan people includes notable individuals of Akan meta-ethnicity and ancestry; the Akan people who are also referred to as () are a meta-ethnicity and Potou–Tano Kwa ethno-linguistic group that are indigenously located on the Ashantiland peninsula near the equator precisely at the \"center of the Earth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47562724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47562724", "title": "List of Harper's Bazaar Brazil cover models", "text": "List of Harper's Bazaar Brazil cover models\n\nThis article is a catalog of actresses and models who have appeared on the cover of Harper's Bazaar Brazil, the Brazilian edition of \"Harper's Bazaar\" magazine, starting with the magazine's first issue in November 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "401834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401834", "title": "List of boxing families", "text": "List of boxing families\n\nThis is a list of boxing families with two or more notable boxers. Many families have had multiple members become famous in the sport of boxing, with some having had multiple world champions. While this does not have extensive details, their highest career achievements are listed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAmateur \n\n\n\n\nProfessional\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40803335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40803335", "title": "List of people by number of countries visited", "text": "List of people by number of countries visited\n\nThis is a list of people by number of countries visited.\n\nThere are a number of people claiming to have visited every country in the world, though there is great debate as to how many countries there are in the world. The most commonly agreed base number is the number of United Nations member states, of which there are 193. According to the United Nations, \"The recognition of a new State or Government is an act that only other States and Governments may grant or withhold.\" As a result, the membership of some countries to the United Nations is blocked by one or more other members, such as Taiwan and Kosovo, and there are also two observer states, the Holy See and the State of Palestine.\n\nAdditionally, there are various dependencies and territories that maintain autonomy, their own government, immigration, and/or print their own currency, and can be widely held as de facto countries by travellers. ISO 3166 is maintained by ISO as an updated list of the aforementioned derived from United Nations sources (Terminology Bulletin Country Names and the Country and Region Codes for Statistical Use maintained by the United Nations Statistics Divisions), and lists 249 countries.\n\nThe Travelers' Century Club, whose membership is limited to those travellers who have visited one hundred or more territories of the world, maintains its own official list of countries and territories, a total of 327 as of January 1, 2018, which includes geographically separated areas, such as Hawaii and other areas of cultural interest. The Best Travelled is an on-line travel club with personal rankings which divides the world into 1,281 regions, and has a verification process to check on travellers' claims.\n\nThere are no official criteria of what constitutes a visit. The Travelers' Century Club considers even the shortest stops, including port-of-call or a plane fuel stops, valid visits. However, many sources advocate that transiting in an airport does not qualify as visiting a country. Some travellers propose that actions such as staying one night in a hotel, or buying a meal, are essential, yet others note that countries and territories such as the Vatican City or Antarctica do not have hotels or restaurants.\n\nWhere a country splits into independent states, such as the USSR, then travellers CAN count the new states if they had formerly travelled in them, but NOT count states they had not physically visited prior to disintegration. For example, if a traveller had visited Kiev and Moscow in the former USSR, they could count the new independent states of Ukraine and Russia, but not Armenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "26623186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26623186", "title": "List of winners of the William E. Harmon foundation award for distinguished achievement among Negroes", "text": "List of winners of the William E. Harmon foundation award for distinguished achievement among Negroes\n\nThe William E. Harmon Foundation award for Distinguished Achievement among Negroes, commonly referred to as the \"Harmon award\" or \"Harmon Foundation award\", was a philanthropic and cultural award created in 1926 by William E. Harmon and administered by the Harmon Foundation. It was offered for distinguished achievements in eight different fields: literature, music, fine arts, business and industry, science and innovation, education, religious service, and race relations. Although awards were created in eight categories, it is best known for its recognition of African-American art of the Harlem Renaissance, and particularly of the visual arts.\n\nA description of the bronze medal won by A.M.E. Bishop John Fletcher Hurst in 1926 appeared in the January 8, 1927, edition of the \"Afro-American\", published in Baltimore, Maryland:\n\nThe medal is of unusually beautiful design. On the obverse side is embossed a ship in full sail on the open sea with the inscription \"Harmon Foundation\" around the margin. On the reverse side are the words \"Inspiration, Achievement Religious Service. Second award, 1926, John Hurst\".\n\nA full list of the winners of each year was offered in contemporary \"New York Times\" articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57805781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57805781", "title": "Mabel Cory Costigan", "text": "Mabel Cory Costigan\n\nMabel Cory Costigan (1873–1951) was an American community and church leader and advocate for labor laws for children and foreign-born individuals. Among her many social and political endeavors, she served on the advisory council of the National Child Labor Committee and was vice president of the National Consumers League.\n\nMabel Cory was born on August 28, 1873 in Patch Grove, Wisconsin. Her parents were Dr. Jerome B. and Amanda (McLean) Cory, who had seven children. Her father was a physician and a politician who advocated for temperance. While she was a girl, her family moved to Wellington, Kansas. She attended East Denver High School, where she was class secretary, and graduated from the Denver Normal and Preparatory School.\n\nShe taught kindergarten for eight years and was an expert on Sunday school primary work. A Methodist, she was involved in church affairs and served as president of the Denver Graded Union of Sunday-school teachers. Costigan was a lecturer and story-teller. She was also a historian of the Colorado branch of the National Congress of Mothers (now named the Parent Teacher Association).\n\nShe campaigned for child labor law, particularly interested in prohibiting the practice of using children in sugar beet fields. Mabel was a member of the National Child Labor Committee advisory council. She was also interested in the plight of foreign-born individuals in labor practices. She was a member of the National Women's Trade Union League. In 1934, her husband co-sponsored the Jones–Costigan amendment to the Sugar Act, which reformed the sugar industry and prohibited the hiring of workers under 14 years-of-age and set a maximum eight-hour work day for 14 to 16 year-olds.\n\nCostigan was a suffragist, which was rewarded when the 19th Amendment of the American Constitution that granted women the right to vote was passed by Congress on June 4, 1919, and ratified on August 18, 1920. She was an active member of the National League of Women Voters, with a national presence.\nCostigan was vice president of the National Consumers League, for whom she wrote \"Food Problem and National Legislation\" in 1921. She lobbied legislators in Washington, D.C. on behalf of the National Consumers League. She was described in 1926 as one of \"two score, diligent, feminine representatives of the organized women of the country who have become the most powerful lobby ever concentrated in the national capital\" by Oliver P. Newman, Former President of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia. Costigan was said to have been a notable and hard-working presence in Washington, D.C. since World War I. Selma Borchardt, who represented the American Federation of Teachers, was the other of two woman said to be highly effective. She was serious in her approach and found that legislators \"meet with us [women] and deal with us exactly as if we were men, presenting a case on its merits.\" She remained active in the National Consumer League for many years.\n\nShe was active in the Conference for Progressive and Political Action in the early 1920s. The Conference was an organization of activists who promoted third-party politics and advocated for the interests of farmers and laborers. In 1924, she campaigned for Robert M. La Follette, the Progress Party's presidential candidate, speaking to thousands of women workers in New York, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. Her husband was elected a United States Senator in 1930. With Jeanne Rankin, she led a coalition of 3,000 women that pressured the Republican and Democratic parties to add the issue of peace to their platforms in 1932.\n\nCostigan was involved in community affairs. She was the president of the Woman's Club of Denver, chairwoman of the industrial committee of the Colorado State Federation of Women's Clubs, and a member of other organizations serving the interests of children, women, and other civic interests. She sat on the board of directors of the Woman's Public Service League of Denver.\n\nShe married Edward P. Costigan, a fellow high school classmate and the class president, in Denver on June 12, 1903. Costigan was a lawyer, politician, and activist. They were partners in reform throughout their married life.\n\nShe died in 1951 and was buried at Fairmount Cemetery in Denver.\n"}
{"id": "7880724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7880724", "title": "Margaretha Guidone", "text": "Margaretha Guidone\n\nMargaretha Guidone (born c. 1956) is a housewife from Helmond (the Netherlands) living in Kapellen (Belgium) who became famous in Flanders because of her campaign for the environment and against global warming. She successfully urged politicians to go see the new climate documentary by Al Gore, \"An Inconvenient Truth\". 200 politicians and political staff accepted her invitation, among whom were Belgian prime minister Guy Verhofstadt and Minister-President of Flanders, Yves Leterme.\n\nBelgian federal minister of environment Bruno Tobback donated his speech time at the climate conference in Nairobi, Kenya to her. She addressed the conference on 15 November 2006, but was unsuccessful at drawing much attention, for the international press didn't pay much attention to her. Since then, she cancelled her year-long Groen! membership in favor of Tobback's Different Socialist Party and published a book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29212513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29212513", "title": "Marwan Awartani", "text": "Marwan Awartani\n\nProf. Marwan Awartani was born in Anabta, Palestine on April 21, 1949. Coming from a small village near the city of Tulkarm, Dr. Awartani has become one of the leaders in innovative thinking and education development and education reform in the Middle East. Prof. Awartani was the Acting President of Al-Quds University in Jerusalem, Secretary General of the Universal Education Foundation and is the Chairman of the Arab Foundations Forum. Prof. Awartani is the President of the Palestinian Society for Mathematical Sciences, and Founding President of Alpha International, and he is now the president of Palestine Technical University-Khadoorie in Tulkarem-west Bank.\n\nPh.D. \"Topology\" 1980. Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. \"Classification of discontinuities of real functions\".\nM.Sc. \"Topology\" 1978. Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.\nB.Sc. \"Mathematics\" 1973. American University of Beirut, Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "7452281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7452281", "title": "Meyer Lutz", "text": "Meyer Lutz\n\nWilhelm Meyer Lutz (19 May 1829 – 31 January 1903) was a German-born British composer and conductor who is best known for light music, musical theatre and burlesques of well-known works.\n\nEmigrating to the UK at the age of 19, Lutz started as an organist and soon became a theatrical conductor in London. After serving from 1850 to 1855 as music director of the Surrey Theatre, Lutz conducted touring opera companies and composed some serious music and music for the Christy Minstrels. In 1869, he was engaged as the music director of the Gaiety Theatre, London, arranging and later composing a series of popular burlesques over the next 25 years. Lutz continued to compose songs into the 20th century.\n\nLutz was born in Münnerstadt, Bavaria, Germany. His parents were Joseph Lutz (1801–1879), a music professor, and Magdalena (1809–1862). His older brother, Baron Johann Lutz, became the prime minister of Bavaria under King Ludwig II of Bavaria. Lutz studied music first with his father, then in Würzburg at the University. He visited Britain, as a pianist, in 1846, and then moved to England in 1848 at the age of 19.\n\nLutz began as an organist in churches at Birmingham and Leeds. Then, for many years, he played the organ at St. George's Roman Catholic Cathedral. Lutz was also a Grand Organist in Freemasonry.\n\nLutz soon became a theatrical conductor. From 1850 to 1855, he conducted at the Surrey Theatre and later the Royalty Theatre. For that theatre, he composed two operas, the one-act \"The Charmed Harp\" (1852) and a grand opera, \"Faust and Marguerite\" (1855). After this, for many years, Lutz conducted concerts in the British provinces and touring opera troupes for Giulia Grisi, the tenor Mario and others. Some of these were led by the tenor Elliot Galer (the founder, in 1877, of the Royal Opera House in Leicester), who produced Lutz's opera \"Zaida, or, The Pearl of Granada\" (with a libretto by Oliver Summers) in 1859 in Liverpool. In the 1850s and 1860s he shared the concert podium at classical concerts with Julius Benedict both in the provinces and at St. James's Hall in London. In 1859, in Derby, England, Lutz played the piano for a series of ten \"Concerts for the People\" at the Temperance Hall. Galer also mounted three other Lutz operas at the Royalty Theatre in London: \"Blonde or Brunette\" (1862), \"Cousin Kate\" (1863), and \"Felix, or The Festival of the Roses\" (1865). During these years, Lutz also composed the cantatas \"Herne the Hunter\" (The Crystal Palace, 1862) and \"King Christmas\" (Oxford Music Hall, 1863), and music for the Christy Minstrels.\n\nIn 1869, manager John Hollingshead hired Lutz as the resident musical director and conductor at the recently opened Gaiety Theatre, composing dances and songs for productions at that theatre, as well as conducting the orchestra for the operas, operettas, plays and burlesques mounted at the theatre. In this capacity, he conducted \"Thespis\", the first Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera, in 1871.\nLutz's early compositions for the Gaiety theatre included incidental music for \"Dreams\" (1869), a play by Thomas W. Robertson. \"The Miller of Milburg\" (1872). At the same time, Christine Nilsson performed his scena \"Xenia the Sclavonian Maiden\" (1869), and at the Covent Garden Promenade Concerts in 1873, his cantata, \"Legend of the Lys\", was performed. He also composed music for such shows as \"On Condition\" (1882) and \"Posterity\" (1884) for Lila Clay's all-ladies troupe. He also composed the popular song, \"Eyes of English Blue\" for Alice Atherton.\n\nAt the Gaiety, Lutz compiled the scores, and later often composed original music, for a series of popular pasticcio entertainments, opera-bouffes and burlesques, including \"The Bohemian G-yurl and the Unapproachable Pole\" (1877); \"Robbing Roy\" (1879 by F. C. Burnand); a version of \"The Forty Thieves\" (1880, libretto by Robert Reece; Lutz had conducted an 1878 version of the same story); \"All in the Downs; or, Black-Eyed Susan\" (1881); \"Aladdin\" (1881); \"Oh! Those Girls\" (1882); \"Blue Beard\" (1882); \"Galatea, or Pygmalion Reversed\" (1883, with a libretto by Henry Pottinger Stephens); \"Ariel\" (1883, libretto by Burnand); and \"Mazeppa\" (1884).\n\nGeorge Edwardes took over management of the Gaiety in 1885 and expanded the format of the burlesques, commissioning Lutz to write original scores for the \"new burlesques\" at the theatre: \"Little Jack Sheppard\" (1885, libretto by Stephens); \"Monte Cristo Jr.\" (1886); \"Miss Esmeralda, or The Maid and the Monkey\" (1887); \"Frankenstein, or The Vampire's Victim\" (1887); \"Faust up to Date\" (1888, libretto by G. R. Sims and Henry Pettitt); \"Ruy Blas and the Blasé Roué\" (1889, libretto by Frederick Hobson Leslie and Herbert F. Clark); \"Carmen up to Data\" (1890, libretto by Sims and Pettitt); \"Cinder Ellen up too Late\" (1891, libretto by Leslie); and \"Don Juan\" (1892, book by Leslie, lyrics by Adrian Ross). The \"Pas de quatre\", a sprightly barn-dance written for \"Faust up to Date\", remained popular for more than fifty years and has had at least two modern recordings. In 1893, with Albert O'Donnell Bartholeyns, he wrote \"A la Française\".\nDuring these years, Lutz continued in demand as a conductor throughout Britain and continued to compose religious and secular music. On 3 May 1886, the Gaiety Theatre hosted a selection of scenes played for Lutz's benefit, including scenes from Lutz's grand opera \"Faust and Marguerite\", his burlesque \"Little Jack Sheppard\" and the operetta \"Karl\" and several recitations and solo pieces. The performers included Nellie Farren (who had sung under him in nearly all of his Gaiety pieces), Marion Hood, Durward Lely, Richard Temple and many others.\n\nLutz left the Gaiety in 1894 and was replaced by Ivan Caryll. For the Opera Comique in 1895, Lutz composed \"A Model Trilby, or A Day or Two after du Maurier\". He also wrote additional songs for \"Baron Golosh\" for the Trafalgar Theatre (1895). Lutz wrote a string quartet and ballads such as \"Thy Silv'ry Tones\", \"Enchant Mine Ear\" and \"Sail on Silver Cloud.\" In the last years of the 19th century, Lutz conducted a band playing Summer seasons at the spa in Scarborough. He continued to compose songs into the 20th century, including music for \"Hidenseek\" (1901) and a few numbers for Ivan Caryll and Cecil Cook's \"The Girl from Kays\" (1902). However, Lutz seems to have run low on funds, as another benefit was held for him on 28 November 1901 at the Gaiety Theatre, organised by George Edwardes.\n\nLutz was married in 1856 to Elizabeth Cook (b. 1835) and later to her sister Emily Cook (b. 1847). Their brothers were the bass Thomas Aynsley Cook (1833–1894) and the baritone John Furneaux Cook, and their sister, Alice Aynsley Cook (c. 1850–1938), was also an opera singer and musical comedy actress. His niece, Annie, married Eugene Goossens, Jr. Lutz\nalso had a son, Caspar, who became a clergyman.\n\nIn printed works, such as scores and theatre programmes, Lutz was usually credited simply as Meyer Lutz. Some of Lutz's music was arranged for military band by J. A. Kappey. Lutz is mentioned in a P. G. Wodehouse novel, \"A Damsel in Distress\" (1919). In addition, a character called Herr Toots in the 1912 novel \"Bella\" by Edward Booth is based on Lutz, as is the character Meyer Klootz in the 1940 novel \"Town and Haven\" by Oswald Harland, both novels being set in late Victorian Scarborough (named \"Spathorpe\" in \"Bella\", and \"Whitcliff\" in \"Town and Haven\").\n\nLutz died of bronchitis at his home in Kensington, London at the age of 73. He was buried in St Mary's, Kensal Green.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149804", "title": "Michael Redgrave", "text": "Michael Redgrave\n\nSir Michael Scudamore Redgrave CBE (20 March 1908 – 21 March 1985) was an English stage and film actor, director, manager, and author. He received an Academy Award for Best Actor nomination for his performance in \"Mourning Becomes Electra\" (1947), as well as two BAFTA Award for Best British Actor nominations for his performances in \"The Night My Number Came Up\" (1955) and \"Time Without Pity\" (1957). \n\nAt the 4th Cannes Film Festival, he won Best Actor for his performance in \"The Browning Version\" (1951).\n\nRedgrave was born in Bristol, England, the son of the silent film actor Roy Redgrave and actress Margaret Scudamore. He never knew his father, who left when the boy was six months old to pursue a career in Australia. He died when Redgrave was fourteen. His mother subsequently married Captain James Anderson, a tea planter. Redgrave greatly disliked his stepfather.\n\nHe studied at Clifton College and Magdalene College, Cambridge. Clifton College's theatre, the Redgrave Theatre, was later named after him. He was a schoolmaster at Cranleigh School in Surrey before becoming an actor in 1934. He directed the boys in \"Hamlet\", \"King Lear\" and \"The Tempest\", but played all the leading roles himself. The \"Redgrave Room\" at the school was named after him. In the new Guildford School of Acting building, which opened in January 2010, the \"Sir Michael Redgrave Studio\" was named for him.\n\nRedgrave made his first professional appearance at the Playhouse in Liverpool on 30 August 1934 as Roy Darwin in \"Counsellor-at-Law\" (by Elmer Rice), then spent two years with its Liverpool Repertory Company where he met his future wife Rachel Kempson. They married on 18 July 1935.\n\nOffered a job by Tyrone Guthrie, Redgrave made his first professional debut in London at the Old Vic on 14 September 1936, playing Ferdinand in \"Love's Labours Lost\". During 1936–37 he also played Mr Horner in \"The Country Wife\", Orlando in \"As You Like It\", Warbeck in \"The Witch of Edmonton\" and Laertes to Laurence Olivier's Hamlet. His hit of the season was Orlando. Edith Evans was his Rosalind and the two fell very much in love. As he later explained: \"Edith always had a habit of falling in love with her leading men; with us it just went rather further.\" \"As You Like It\" transferred to the New Theatre in February 1937 and Redgrave again played Orlando.\n\nAt the Embassy Theatre in March 1937, he played Anderson in a mystery play, \"The Bat\", before returning to the Old Vic in April, succeeding Marius Goring as Chorus in \"Henry V\". Other roles that year included Christopher Drew in Daisy Fisher's comedy \"A Ship Comes Home\" at the St Martin's Theatre in May and Larry Starr in Philip Leaver's comedy \"Three Set Out\" at the Embassy in June, before joining John Gielgud's Company at the Queen's Theatre, September 1937 to April 1938, where he played Bolingbroke in \"Richard II\", Charles Surface in \"The School for Scandal\" and Baron Tusenbach in \"Three Sisters\".\n\nOther roles included:\n\nOnce the London theatres were re-opened, after the outbreak of war, he played:\n\nRedgrave joined the Royal Navy as an ordinary seaman in July 1941, () but was discharged on medical grounds in November 1942. Having spent most of 1942 in the Reserve he managed to direct \"Lifeline\" (Norman Armstrong) starring Frank Pettingell at the Duchess Theatre in July; and \"The Duke in Darkness\" (Patrick Hamilton) starring Leslie Banks at the St James's Theatre in October, also taking the role of Gribaud.\n\nResuming his stage career he played/directed:\n\n\nJoining the Old Vic Company at the New Theatre for its 1949–50 season, he played:\n\nRedgrave joined the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre company at Stratford-upon-Avon and for the 1951 season appeared as Prospero in \"The Tempest\" as well as playing Richard II, Hotspur and Chorus in the Cycle of \"Histories\", for which he also directed \"Henry IV Part Two\". After appearing as Frank Elgin in \"Winter Journey\" at the St James's April 1952, he rejoined the Stratford company in 1953 (together with his actress wife Rachel Kempson) appearing as Shylock, King Lear and Antony in \"Antony and Cleopatra\", also playing Antony when the company transferred to the Prince's Theatre in November 1953 before touring in the Netherlands, Belgium and Paris.\n\nAt the Apollo in June 1955 he played Hector in \"Tiger at the Gates\", appearing in the same role at the Plymouth Theatre, New York City in October 1955 for which he received the New York Critics' Award. While in New York he directed \"A Month in the Country\" at the Phoenix Theatre in April 1956, and directed and played the Prince Regent in \"The Sleeping Prince\" at the Coronet Theatre in November 1956.\n\nReturning to London in January 1958, Redgrave appeared as Philip Lester in \"A Touch of the Sun\" (N. C. Hunter) at the Saville Theatre. He won Best Actor in the \"Evening Standard\" Awards 1958 for this role. He rejoined the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre Company in June 1958, to play Hamlet and Benedick, also playing Hamlet with the company in Leningrad and Moscow in December 1958. (His wife Rachel Kempson played Ursula in \"Much Ado About Nothing\" and Lady Capulet in \"Romeo and Juliet\").\n\nAt the Queen's Theatre in London in August 1959, he played H.J. in his own adaptation of the Henry James novella \"The Aspern Papers\". His play was later successfully revived on Broadway in 1962, with Dame Wendy Hiller and Maurice Evans. The 1984 London revival featured his daughter, Vanessa Redgrave, along with Christopher Reeve and Hiller, this time in the role of Miss Bordereau.\n\nRoles included:\n\nReturning to Britain, in July 1962 he took part in the Chichester Festival Theatre's opening season, playing the title role in Chekhov's \"Uncle Vanya\" to the Astrov of Laurence Olivier who also directed.\n\nAlongside John Dexter's Chichester staging of \"Saint Joan\", Olivier's \"Uncle Vanya\" was first revived in Chichester in 1963 before transferring to the Old Vic as part of the nascent Royal National Theatre's inaugural season, winning rave reviews and Redgrave's second win as Best Actor in the 1963 Evening Standard Awards. Critic Michael Billington recalled: \"In Redgrave's Vanya you saw both a tremulous victim of a lifetime's emotional repression and the wasted potential of a Chekhovian might-have-been: as Redgrave and Olivier took their joint curtain call, linked hands held triumphantly aloft, we were not to know that this was to symbolise the end of their artistic amity.\"\n\nRedgrave played (and co-presented) Lancelot Dodd MA in Arthur Watkyn's \"Out of Bounds\" at Wyndham's Theatre in November 1962, following it at the Old Vic with his portrayal of Claudius opposite the Hamlet of Peter O'Toole on 22 October 1963. This \"Hamlet\" was in fact the National Theatre's official opening production, directed by Olivier, but Simon Callow has dubbed it \"slow, solemn, long\", while Ken Campbell vividly described it as \"brochure theatre.\"\n\nIn January 1964 at the National he played the title role in \"Hobson's Choice\", which he admitted was well outside his range: \"I couldn't do the Lancashire accent and that shook my nerve terribly – all the other performances suffered.\" While still at the National in June 1964 he also played Halvard Solness in \"The Master Builder\", which he said 'went wrong'. At this time he had incipient Parkinson's disease, although he did not know it.\n\nIn May and June 1965 Redgrave directed the opening festival of the Yvonne Arnaud Theatre in Guildford, including directing and playing Rakitin in \"A Month in the Country\" (co-starring with Ingrid Bergman as Natalya Petrovna), and Samson in \"Samson Agonistes\" (co-starring with Rachel Kempson as Chorus). He again played Rakitin in September 1965, when his production transferred to the Cambridge Theatre in London. For the Glyndebourne Festival Opera he directed \"Werther\" in 1966 and \"La bohème\" in 1967.\n\nAt the Mermaid Theatre in July 1971 he played Mr Jaraby in \"The Old Boys\" (William Trevor) and had an unfortunate experience: \"My memory went, and on the first night they made me wear a deaf aid to hear some lines from the prompter and it literally fell to pieces – there were little bits of machinery all over the floor, so I then knew I really couldn't go on, at least not learning new plays.\"\n\nNevertheless, he successfully took over the part of Father in John Mortimer's \"A Voyage Round My Father\" at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket, also touring Canada and Australia in the role in 1972–73. International touring continued in 1974–75 with a Royal Shakespeare Company production of \"The Hollow Crown\", visiting major venues in the USA, New Zealand and Australia, while in 1976–77 he toured South America, Canada and the UK in the anthology, \"Shakespeare's People\".\n\nRedgrave's final theatre appearance came in May 1979 when he portrayed Jasper in Simon Gray's \"Close of Play\", directed on the Lyttelton stage at the National Theatre by Harold Pinter. It was a silent, seated role, based on Gray's own father, who had died a year before he wrote the play. As Gray has said: \"Jasper is in fact dead but is forced to endure, as if alive, a traditional English Sunday, helpless in his favourite armchair as his three sons and their wives fall to pieces in the usual English middle class style, sometimes blaming him, sometimes appealing to him for help and sobbing at his feet for forgiveness, but basically ignoring him. In other words I had stuck him in Hell, which turns out to be 'life, old life itself'.\"\n\nHis final work, in 1975, a narrative of the epic poem, \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\", by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, a poem that Redgrave taught as a young schoolmaster and visualised by producer-director Raul da Silva, received six international film festival prizes of which five were first place in category. This work was to be his last before the onslaught of Parkinson's disease.\n\nRedgrave first appeared on BBC television at the Alexandra Palace in 1937, in scenes from \"Romeo and Juliet\". His first major film role was in Alfred Hitchcock's \"The Lady Vanishes\" (1938). Redgrave also starred in \"The Stars Look Down\" (1940), with James Mason in the film of Robert Ardrey's play \"Thunder Rock\" (1942), and in the ventriloquist's dummy episode of the Ealing compendium film \"Dead of Night\" (1945).\n\nHis first American film role was opposite Rosalind Russell in \"Mourning Becomes Electra\" (1947), for which he was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor. In 1951 he starred in \"The Browning Version\", from Sir Terrence Rattigan's play of the same name. The \"Daily Mirror\" described Redgrave's performance as Crocker-Harris as \"one of the greatest performances ever seen in films\". The 1950s also saw Redgrave in \"The Importance of Being Earnest\" (1952), \"The Dambusters\" (1954) with his portrayal of the inventor Barnes Wallis, \"1984\" (1956), \"Time Without Pity\" (1957), for which he was nominated for a BAFTA Award, and \"The Quiet American\" (1958).\n\nNotable television performances include narration for \"The Great War\" (1964), a history of the First World War using stills and 'stretched' archive film, and the less successful \"Lost Peace\" series (BBC Television, 1964 and 1966). Of the latter, Philip Purser wrote: \"The commentary, spoken by Sir Michael Redgrave, took on an unremittingly pessimistic tone from the outset.\"\n\nRedgrave was married to the actress Rachel Kempson for 50 years from 1935 until his death. Their children Vanessa (b. 1937), Corin (1939–2010) and Lynn Redgrave (1943–2010), and their grandchildren: Natasha Richardson (1963–2009), Joely Richardson (b. 1965) and Jemma Redgrave (b. 1965) are also involved in theatre or film as actors. Their grandson Carlo Gabriel Nero is a screenwriter and film director; only Luke Redgrave has taken a path outside the theatre. \n\nHis daughter Lynn wrote a one-woman play for herself called \"Shakespeare for My Father.\" She was nominated for Broadway's Tony Award for this role. She traced her love for Shakespeare as a way of following and finding her often absent father.\n\nRedgrave owned White Roding Windmill from 1937 to 1946. He and his family lived in \"Bedford House\" on Chiswick Mall from 1945 to 1954. His entry for \"Who's Who in the Theatre\" (1981) gives his address as Wilks Water, Odiham, Hampshire.\n\nCorin helped his father in the writing of his last autobiography. During one of Corin's visits to his father, the latter said, \"There is something I ought to tell you\". Then, after a very long pause, \"I am, to say the least of it, bisexual\". Corin encouraged him to acknowledge his bisexuality in the book. Michael agreed to do so, but in the end he chose to remain silent about it. Alan Strachan's 2004 biography of Redgrave discusses his affairs with both men and women. Although Redgrave had some long-term relationships with men, he also was prone to cruising Victoria or Knightsbridge for what he called \"a necessary degradation\", a habit of quick pick-ups that left him with a lasting sense of self-disgust.\n\nThe 1996 BBC documentary film \"Michael Redgrave: My Father\", narrated by Corin Redgrave, and based on his book of the same name, discusses the older actor's bisexuality in some depth. Rachel Kempson recounted that, when she proposed to him, Redgrave said that there were \"difficulties to do with his nature, and that he felt he ought not to marry\". She said that she understood, it didn't matter and that she loved him. To this, Redgrave replied, \"Very well. If you're sure, we will\".\n\nDuring the filming of Fritz Lang's \"Secret Beyond the Door\" (1948), Redgrave met Bob Michell. They became lovers. Michell set up house close to the Redgraves, and he became a surrogate \"uncle\" to Redgrave's children (then aged 11, 9 and 5), who adored him. Michell later had children of his own, including a son he named Michael. Fred Sadoff was an actor/director who became Redgrave's assistant and lover; they shared lodgings in New York and London.\n\nA card was found among Redgrave's effects after his death. The card was signed \"Tommy, Liverpool, January 1940\", and on it were the words (quoted from W.H. Auden): \"The word is love. Surely one fearless kiss would cure the million fevers\".\n\nIn 1976, after suffering symptoms for many years, Redgrave was diagnosed with rapidly advancing Parkinson's disease. He began a regimen of therapies and medications that caused disorientation and other side effects. Costs for his healthcare expenses and his diminished earning power caused the family to apply for public assistance from the King George's Pension Fund. In an interview on his seventieth birthday, he said: \"For a long time, nobody understood the Parkinson's condition, and directors thought I was just forgetful or drunk--and even now the work isn't easy. The difficulty is not just remembering lines but getting from place to place.\"\n\nRedgrave died in a nursing home in Denham, Buckinghamshire, on 21 March 1985, from Parkinson's disease, one day after his 77th birthday. He was cremated at Mortlake Crematorium and his ashes were scattered in the garden of St Paul's, Covent Garden (The Actors’ Church), London.\n\nIn 1951 Redgrave received the Best Actor Award (Cannes Film Festival) for \"The Browning Version\". \nRedgrave twice (1958 and 1963) won Best Actor trophies in the Evening Standard Awards and twice received the Variety Club of Great Britain 'Actor of the Year' award (in the same years).\n\nHe was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1952 and was knighted in 1959. He was also appointed Commander of the Order of the Dannebrog, Denmark in 1955.\n\nRedgrave became the First President of the English Speaking Board in 1953, and President of the Questors Theatre, Ealing in 1958.\n\nIn 1966, he received an honorary DLitt degree from the University of Bristol.\n\nIn 1986, he was inducted posthumously into the American Theater Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Redgrave Theatre in Farnham, Surrey, 1974–1998, was named in his honour.\n\nFor a number of years, British film exhibitors voted him among the top ten British stars at the box office via an annual poll in the \"Motion Picture Herald\".\n\n\nRedgrave wrote five books:\n\n\nHis plays include \"The Seventh Man\" and \"Circus Boy\", both performed at the Liverpool Playhouse in 1935, and his adaptations of \"A Woman in Love\" (\"Amourese\") at the Embassy Theatre in 1949 and the Henry James novella \"The Aspern Papers\" at the Queen's Theatre in 1959.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52907739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52907739", "title": "Mona Hanna-Attisha", "text": "Mona Hanna-Attisha\n\nMona Hanna-Attisha (born November 24, 1976) is a pediatrician, professor, and public health advocate whose research exposed the Flint water crisis. Her research revealed children were exposed to dangerous levels of lead in Flint, Michigan. She is now the director of an initiative to mitigate the impact of the crisis. She is commonly referred to as \"Dr. Mona\".\n\nBorn Mona Hanna in Sheffield, England, her parents are Iraqi scientists and dissidents who fled during Saddam Hussein's regime. She grew up in Royal Oak, Michigan and graduated from Royal Oak's Kimball High School. In 2017, she penned a \"New York Times\" opinion about her immigrant story and the impact of President Donald Trump's immigration restrictions titled \"Corroding the American Dream\".\n\nMona Hanna received her Bachelor of Science from University of Michigan's School of Natural Resources and Environment and Masters of Public Health degree from the University of Michigan School of Public Health, and her medical degree from Michigan State University College of Human Medicine. She completed her residency and chief residency at Wayne State University/Children's Hospital of Michigan. She is an associate professor at the Michigan State University College of Human Medicine.\n\nOn 24 September 2015, in a press conference at Flint's Hurley Medical Center, Dr. Hanna-Attisha revealed that Flint children's blood lead levels doubled after the water was switched from the Detroit River to the Flint River in April 2014.\n\nDr. Hanna-Attisha conducted her research after talking to a high-school friend, Elin Warn Betanzo, a former Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water employee and water engineer. Betanzo told Hanna-Attisha that Marc Edwards, a water engineer and professor from Virginia Tech and his team of Flint Water Study researchers, found high levels of lead in Flint residents' homes. Even though Hanna-Attisha was not provided the data she sought from the State of Michigan, she used hospital electronic medical records as data for her study.\n\nAt a risk to her career, Hanna-Attisha revealed her findings at the 24 September 2015 press conference before her research was scientifically peer reviewed, because of the public health implications. Hanna-Attisha's findings were later published in the \"American Journal of Public Health\". \nHanna Attisha’s findings were confirmed in a \"Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)\" published by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in July 2016, and is recognized as an underestimate of exposure.\n\nAt Dr. Hanna-Attisha's 24 September 2015 press conference she urged residents, particularly children, to stop drinking the water, to end Flint River as a water source as soon as possible and urged the City of Flint to issue a health advisory. A day after Dr. Hanna-Attisha released her study, Flint issued a health advisory advising residents, particularly children, to minimize exposure to Flint tap water. The water source was switched back to the Detroit River on 16 October 2015. Later, the City of Flint, the State of Michigan and the United States made emergency declarations.\n\nDr. Hanna-Attisha's research was initially ridiculed by the State of Michigan, when a Michigan Department of Environmental \nQuality spokesperson accused her of being an \"unfortunate researcher\" \"splicing and dicing numbers\" who was causing \"near hysteria.\" About ten days later, after \"The Detroit Free Press\" published its own findings consistent with Dr. Hanna-Attisha's findings and after Hanna-Attisha engaged in one-on-one conversations with Michigan's chief medical officer, the State of Michigan backed down and concurred with her findings. Later, at the press conference in which the State of Michigan acknowledged the lead in water crisis, Department of Environmental Quality officials apologized to Hanna-Attisha. In his 19 January 2016 State of the State address, Governor Snyder publicly thanked Hanna-Attisha and Edwards for sounding the alarm about the Flint water crisis.\n\nDr. Hanna-Attisha testified twice before Congress about the Flint Water Crisis and penned an op/ed advocating for federal assistance for Flint children exposed as a result of the crisis published in the \"New York Times\". Eventually, in part due to Dr. Hanna-Attisha's advocacy, $100 million in federal dollars was allocated to Flint in addition to approximately $250 million in state dollars to address the crisis.\n\nShe is the director of Hurley Hospital's Pediatric Residency program. Since the Flint Water Crisis, she also became the director of the Pediatric Public Health Initiative, a partnership between Hurley Medical Center and Michigan State University, to optimize the outcomes of Flint children. Through community and clinical programs, childhood health policy and advocacy, and robust evaluation, the Pediatric Public Health Initiative works with many partners, including Flint's heroic parents and kids, as a center of excellence, with the primary goal of mitigating the impact of the Flint Water Crisis and serving as a national resource for best practices.\n\nAlso in response to the crisis, Hanna-Attisha worked to establish, was a founding donor, raises money for and is on the advisory board of the Flint Child Health and Development Fund. In one year, the Flintkids.org Fund raised over $17 million and awarded over $2 million in grants directly supporting Flint kids' health and development.\n\nHanna-Attisha was appointed by Michigan Governor Rick Snyder to three public health commissions formed in response to the Flint Water Crisis, the Flint Water Interagency Coordinating Committee, the Michigan Child Lead Poisoning Elimination Board, and the Michigan Public Health Commission.\n\nHanna-Attisha wrote what has been described as a dramatic first-hand account of the Flint Water Crisis with the \"gripping intrigue of a Grisham thriller.\" The book was published by Random House imprint One World by editor-in-chief Chris Jackson. The release date for Hanna-Attisha's book, \"What the Eyes Don't See\" was June 19, 2018. \n\nAnonymous Content optioned the book rights to make a movie, to be produced by Michael Sugar and Rosalie Swedlin, and written/directed by Cherien Dabis.\n\nHanna-Attisha’s role exposing the Flint Water Crisis was profiled by CBS Sunday Morning, ,CNN Michigan Public Radio, the PBS News Hour, the \"Washington Post\", \"New York Times\", the \"Detroit News\", and the \"Detroit Free Press\" among others. Rachel Maddow famously called Hanna-Attisha a \"bad ass\" for exposing the water crisis and refusing to back down when the state attempted to minimize the effect of the lead crisis.\n\nHanna-Attisha gave a TEDMED talk entitled \"Flint's Fight for America's Children\" on 1 November 2016.\n\nHanna-Attisha was also profiled on ABC's 2016 end-of-year TV special \"Game Changers with Robin Roberts\" on 21 December 2016. Hanna-Attisha was a guest on Larry Wilmore's \"The Nightly Show\" where she received a coveted \"Keep it 100\" award. Hanna-Attisha also appeared on a special \"Who Wants to be A Millionaire\" in \"Hometown Heroes Week\" on 27 October 2016. She pledged to give her winnings to the Flint Child Health and Development Fund.\n\nHanna-Attisha, for her role in exposing the Flint Water Crisis and her public health advocacy in response to the crisis, was named one of Time Magazine's Most Influential People in 2016 and she was also named to the Politico 50. She was also the recipient of the 2016 Ridenhour Prize for Truth-Telling and the PEN American Center James C. Goodale Freedom of Expression Award and one of the Ten Outstanding Young Americans of 2016. Hanna-Attisha was also named Michiganian of the Year by the Detroit News.\n\nShe was awarded the Rose Nader Award for Arab American activism by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) and named the Champion of Justice by ACCESS (Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services). In 2016 Hanna-Attisha was the commencement speaker at Michigan State University, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Virginia Tech as well as two other universities. In 2017 she was the commencement speaker at the University of Michigan's School of Natural Resources.\n\nHanna-Attisha has also been recognized by environmental organizations, including the Michigan League of Conservation Voters, the Michigan Environmental Council, the Ecology Center and Children's Environmental Health Network. She was also named a Union of Concerned Scientists 2016 Got Science? Champion.\n\nOn 30 March 2017, Hanna-Attisha was named an honorary co-chair of the March for Science. On 21 July 2017, Hanna-Attisha and Edwards were jointly awarded the first Disobedience Award by the MIT Media Lab for \"for defying conventions of peer review as they sought to bring attention to Flint's water crisis before more people were affected.\" Hanna-Attisha and Edwards donated the $250,000 award to victims of the crisis.\n\nHanna-Attisha was awarded the 22nd Heinz Award for Public Policy in September 2017 for exposing the Flint Water Crisis and her subsequent work.\nHer husband, Elliott Attisha, is a pediatrician in Detroit, Michigan. They have two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "22632573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22632573", "title": "Niser bin Muhammad Nasr Nawar", "text": "Niser bin Muhammad Nasr Nawar\n\nNizar bin Muhammad Nasar Nawar (1978-2002), an alleged member of the Tunisian Combat Group, was accused of carrying out the 2002 Ghriba synagogue bombing, after planning its execution while living in Montreal, Canada.\n\nRaised by his mother in Ben Gardane, Nizar Nawar was a \"mediocre\" student who never completed high school. His father, who moved to Lyon, France in 1971, visited the family routinely, but was unable to help his son gain an entry visa to France in 1999, since he could not prove he had the financial capacity to support him.\n\nNizar Nawar was not considered religious, as he drank and wore un-Islamic clothing, while traveling to Libya to purchase cheap trinkets that he sold in Tunisian markets.\n\nIn 1999, Nizar Nawar told his family he was traveling to South Korea to work in restaurants. Nine months later he phoned his parents \"very bitter, very angry\", and explained he had no money and said the restaurant had refused to pay him. He asked them to help him fly back to Tunisia.\n\nUpon returning to Tunisia, Nawar moved to Montreal, where he told his family he'd been accepted into a travel agency school.\n\nIn 2001, his father moved the remaining family members to France.\n\nNawar remained in Canada until February 2002, when he and several others traveled to Tunisia to prepare for the attack. He told his family that the others were from the travel agency.\n\nNawar worked at a legitimate travel agency under the alias \"Seif el-Islam Ettounsi\" while in Tunisia, where he constructed the \"crude\" bomb for the attack himself. During this time, he often stayed with his uncle Belgasem Nawar, who purchased the truck that was eventually used in the bombing. Just before the attack, he mailed a letter to Al-Quds Al-Arabi in which he took responsibility for the attack in the name of al-Qaeda.\n\nEarly on 11 April 2002, he and a colleague drove the truck loaded with natural gas canisters behind a German tourist bus near the synagogue. Nawar then used a cell phone belonging to his brother, to phone Christian Ganczarski, whom he asked to pray for him. He also had a phone call with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. After his colleague fled the scene on foot, Nawar detonated the explosives. The truck detonated at the front of the synagogue, killing 14 German tourists, five Tunisians, and two French nationals. More than 30 others were wounded.\n\nFollowing the blast, Tunisian officials identified his remains through dental records. They initially labeled the explosion an accident, until they were made aware of the letter sent to the al-Quds media outlet and re-labeled it as an attack. His uncle was arrested shortly after the bombing.\n\nThen Tunisian president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali replaced both ministers in charge of internal security two weeks after the attack, having Hedi M'henni replace Abdallah Kaabi as Minister of the Interior, and Mohamed Hedi ben Hassine replace Mohamed Ali Ganzaoui as head of National Security.\n\nIn June 2002, Sulaiman Abu Ghaith spoke on al-Jazeera to confirm that the attack was carried out by Nizar Nawar with al-Qaeda's help, since Nawar \"could not see his Palestinian brothers killed while Jews walked freely in Djerba to enjoy themselves and practice their religion\". \"The Boston Globe\" stated that his residence in Canada proved \"that Canada, despite new antiterrorist measures approved by Parliament under intense pressure from the United States, remains an important haven for bin Laden's operatives\"\n\nSeven months after the attack, his parents, brother and brother-in-law were arrested in France under anti-terrorism laws, while authorities investigated if they had any connection to the bombing. There were reports that Nawar had written his brother a letter urging him to \"finish what he had started, and die a martyr\".\n"}
{"id": "850426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850426", "title": "Omar al-Bayoumi", "text": "Omar al-Bayoumi\n\nOmar al-Bayoumi () is a Saudi national who claims to have befriended, rather than ran as agents, two of the 9/11 hijackers in the United States. FBI files dating back to before the attacks demonstrate that he is a Saudi Arabian intelligence agent.\n\nSaudi Arabia claims that al-Bayoumi is not an agent of theirs. Per previously-classified memoranda released by the National Archives in May 2016, as of June 6, 2003, \"the FBI \"believes it is possible that he was an agent of the Saudi Government and that he may have been reporting on the local community to the Saudi Government officials. In addition, during its investigation, the FBI discovered that al-Bayoumi has ties to terrorist elements as well.\"\n\nAl-Bayoumi was probably born around 1958, but virtually nothing is known of al-Bayoumi's early life. Until 1994, he lived in Saudi Arabia, working for the Saudi Ministry of Defense and Aviation, a department headed by Prince Sultan bin Abdul Aziz.\n\nIn August 1994, al-Bayoumi moved to the United States and settled down in San Diego, California, where he became involved in the local Muslim community. He was very inquisitive, and was known to always carry around a video camera. According to several sources, al-Bayoumi was strongly suspected by many residents of being a Saudi government spy. The man the FBI considered their \"best source\" in San Diego said that al-Bayoumi \"must be an intelligence officer for Saudi Arabia or another foreign power,\" according to \"Newsweek\" magazine.\n\nDuring this time, al-Bayoumi was in the United States as part of a work-study program. The Saudi General Authority of Civil Aviation paid al-Bayoumi's salary through a government contractor. When the contractor proposed terminating its relationship with al-Bayoumi in 1999, a Saudi government official replied with a letter marked \"extremely urgent\" that the government wanted al-Bayoumi's contract renewed \"as quickly as possible.\" As a result, Al-Bayoumi's employment with the project continued.\n\nIn June 1998, an anonymous Saudi philanthropist donated $500,000 to have a Kurdish mosque built in San Diego, on the condition that al-Bayoumi be hired as maintenance manager with a private office. The donation was accepted, but because al-Bayoumi rarely showed up for work, the mosque's leadership became unhappy with him. Eventually, they moved to fire him.\n\nSome time in late 1999 or early 2000, Omar al-Bayoumi began receiving another monthly payment—this one from Princess Haifa bint Faisal, the wife of Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to the U.S. Checks for between $2,000 and $3,000 were sent monthly from the princess, through two or three intermediaries, to al-Bayoumi. The payments continued for several years, totaling between $50,000 and $75,000. According to the recent release of documents by 2002 Congressional Inquiry into the September 11 Attacks, Omar al-Bayoumi was not the recipient of the checks Osama Bassnan wife was. He was a close associate of Omar al-Bayoumi, Bassan made comments to an FBI source \"That he did more for the hijackers than al-Bayoumi did.\" The report further states the even though the money was meant for Bassnan, al-Bayoumi's wife had attempted to deposit three of the checks into her own account.\n\nOn January 15, 2000, future 9/11 hijackers Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdhar flew to Los Angeles, California from Bangkok, Thailand, just after attending the 2000 Al Qaeda Summit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The final 9/11 Commission Report noted:\n\nAl-Bayoumi met the hijackers at a restaurant after their landing; he claims he met them by accident. He invited the two hijackers to move to San Diego with him, and they did. Al-Bayoumi found them an apartment, co-signed the lease, and advanced them $1,500 to help pay for their rent. The 9/11 Commission, however, concluded that \"[n]either then nor later did Bayoumi give money to either Hazmi or Mihdhar.\" Al-Bayoumi also helped the two obtain driver's licenses, rides to Social Security, and information on flight schools. Al-Bayoumi says he was being kind to fellow Muslims in need, and had no idea of their plans. But according to Newsweek magazine a former top FBI official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, \"We firmly believed that he had knowledge [of the 9/11 plot], and that his meeting with them that day was more than coincidence.\" Other FBI officials, however, concluded that al-Bayoumi was not a witting accomplice of the hijackers. As one FBI official explained, \"We could not find any contact between him and terrorists, any involvement (with al-Qaeda). There was nothing to indicate he's any different from any of the hundreds of people who had contact with the hijackers, who were unwitting to the fact that they were going to be hijackers. It just wasn't there.\"\n\nAl-Hazmi and al-Mihdar's neighbors later reported that the two struck them as quite odd. They had no furniture, they constantly played flight simulator games, and limousines picked them up for short rides in the middle of the night. During this time, al-Bayoumi lived across the street from them. Throughout this period his salary greatly increased. Al-Hazmi and al-Mihdar later moved into the house of Abdussattar Shaikh, a friend of al-Bayoumi's, who was secretly working as an FBI informant at the time.\n\nIn July 2001, Omar al-Bayoumi moved to England to pursue a PhD at Aston University. Ten days after the September 11 attacks he was arrested by British authorities working with the FBI. He was held on an immigration charge while the FBI and Scotland Yard investigated him. His phone calls, bank accounts, and associations were researched, but the FBI says they found no connections to terrorism. When interrogators asked Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, whether he knew al-Bayoumi, he said that he did not. He was released, and went back to studying at Aston, and later moved to Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe issue was reopened when the potential links between al-Bayoumi and the Saudi Embassy were reported in the press. Under pressure from Congress, the FBI re-examined the case. They concluded that the allegations were \"without merit,\" and they \"abandoned further investigation.\" However, contemporary news accounts reported that \"countless intelligence leads that might help solve [the case] appear to have been under investigated or completely overlooked by the FBI.\"\n\nThe final 9/11 Commission reports stated \"we have seen no credible evidence that he believed in violent extremism, or knowingly aided extremist groups.\"\n\nPer previously-classified memoranda released by the National Archives in May 2016, as of June 6, 2003, \"the FBI \"believes it is possible that he was an agent of the Saudi Government and that he may have been reporting on the local community to the Saudi Government officials. In addition, during its investigation, the FBI discovered that al-Bayoumi has ties to terrorist elements as well.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40999301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40999301", "title": "Pamela Cooper-White", "text": "Pamela Cooper-White\n\nPamela Cooper-White is the Christiane Brooks Johnson Professor of Psychology and Religion at Union Theological Seminary in New York.\n\nShe was previously the Ben G. and Nancye Clapp Gautier Professor of Pastoral Theology, Care and Counseling at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, GA and Co-Director of the Atlanta Theological Association's ThD program in Pastoral Counseling. She is an ordained Priest in the Episcopal Church 1992–present (previously an ordained Minister in The United Church of Christ, 1984-1988). She was the Fulbright-Freud Visiting Scholar of Psychoanalysis in Vienna, Austria 2013-14.\n\nCooper-White holds two PhD degrees: from Harvard University, and The Institute for Clinical Social Work, Chicago (a psychoanalytic clinical and research degree); an MA in Pastoral Counseling with distinction from Holy Names University, Oakland, CA; a Master of Divinity degree with honors from Harvard Divinity School; and a Bachelor of Music Magna cum Laude from Boston University where she studied art, voice performance, and music history and education.\n\nCooper-White is a certified clinical Fellow in the American Association of Pastoral Counselors (AAPC), a National Board Certified Counselor (NBCC), a Licensed Clinical Professional Counselor in the State of Illinois, a member of the International Association for the Psychology of Religion (IAPR), and a Research Associate of the American Psychoanalytic Association. She serves on the Board of the International Association for Spiritual Care, the Steering Committee of the Psychology, Culture & Religion Group of the American Academy of Religion (AAR), and the Editorial Board of the \"Journal of Pastoral Theology\". She has taught at UCLA; the Graduate Theological Union, Berkeley, California; Seabury-Western Theological Seminary, Evanston, IL; and was Professor of Pastoral Theology for 9 years at the Lutheran Theological Seminary at Philadelphia (now part of United Lutheran Seminary). In 2008 she was appointed the Ben G and Nancye Clapp Gautier Professor of Pastoral Theology, Care and Counseling at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, GA, where she also co-directed the Atlanta Theological Association's ThD in Pastoral Counseling (a joint program of Columbia Seminary, Candler School of Theology/Emory University, and the Interdenominational Theological Centre (the largest consortium of African American theological seminaries in the U.S.). In 2015 she moved to New York to become the Christiane Brooks Johnson Professor of Psychology and Religion at Union Theological Seminary, teaching psychoanalytic theory, pastoral theology, and spiritual care.\n\nCooper-White is the author of seven books and has also published over 70 scholarly articles and anthology chapters in pastoral theology - especially in the areas of postmodern, psychoanalytic, and feminist theory/ethics in dialogue with theology and clinical practice. Her works have delved into multiplicity of God and persons; intersubjectivity and the use of the therapist’s self as an instrument for pastoral/spiritual care and psychotherapy; sacred space, architecture, and the psyche; advocacy in faith communities to end violence against women; and most recently the history of psychoanalysis and religion. This latest project has brought her full circle to her early scholarly work in the field of historical musicology on the composer Arnold Schoenberg's opera \"Moses und Aron\" and fin-de-siecle Vienna. She continues to be involved in the visual and performing arts in Pennsylvania and New York, and her photography has been exhibited in a number of solo and group shows and galleries in Boston, Philadelphia, Gettysburg, Fort Lauderdale, and New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47458038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47458038", "title": "Peter Zandan", "text": "Peter Zandan\n\nPeter A. Zandan (born 1953) is an American entrepreneur in the field of market research and data science. Zandan is currently global vice chairman at Hill+Knowlton Strategies, where he leads the company’s worldwide research operations. He was founder of IntelliQuest Information Group Inc., an Austin-based global research firm, and served as Chairman and CEO from 1984 to 1998, taking the company public in 1996. Through IntelliQuest, Zandan pioneered the use of electronic surveys and the Internet in the field of market research. In 1999, Zandan founded and served as CEO of Zilliant, a pricing optimization company.\n\nZandan has played an active role in the Austin, Texas community. In 2014, he developed and sponsored the Zandan Poll, an annual survey among Austin residents that covers a variety of topics including the economy, affordability, growth, education, policy issues and the overall cultural identity of Austin. Zandan is currently a member of the President’s Circle of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Zandan also serves on the board of KLRU, a public television station in Austin, Texas, and as a Member of the Advisory Council of Red McCombs School of Business at UT Austin. Having moved to Austin in the 1970s, Zandan earned his MBA and Ph.D. in evaluation research at the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nBorn in Longmeadow, Massachusetts, Zandan received a bachelor's degree in history from the University of Massachusetts in 1975. In the latter half of the 1970s, Zandan moved to Mexico to pursue international studies. After several years abroad, he returned to the United States and earned an MBA and Ph.D. in Evaluation Research in 1983 from the University of Texas.\n\nZandan founded his first major company in 1984 under the name of IntelliQuest. IntelliQuest focused on changing the way companies performed market research by pioneering ‘disk-by-mail’ methodologies, and later utilizing internet based electronic surveys. Zandan served as the company’s chairman and CEO for 15 years. IntelliQuest was the fastest growing market research company worldwide through the 1990s as it provided new product, marketing, and branding services to corporations such as Apple, IBM, McKinsey & Co., Microsoft, and Hewlett-Packard. IntelliQuest provided marketing information to technology companies and direct marketing services to Internet marketers. Additionally it supplied information about tech markets on a subscription and proprietary project basis. Under Zandan’s leadership, IntelliQuest grew to over 500 employees with offices in Austin, Silicon Valley, New York City and London. Zandan took the company public in 1996 on the NASDAQ exchange, and it was acquired by WPP in 1999. In 1998, before the company was bought, Zandan stepped away from day-to-day management and operations of the company to pursue other interests.\n\nIn 1998, Peter Zandan founded Zilliant Inc, another Austin-based corporation. Zilliant developed into a leader in strategic pricing management, providing software solutions to enable corporations to outline and manage their e-commerce pricing. Having understood that “the Internet allows companies to better understand their customers [and] their preferences,” Zandan helped develop the flagship product called Zilliant Intelligent Pricing solution (ZIPS) which tested real-time customer pricing behavior and monitored activity and market opportunities. Offering business-to-business predictive pricing and sales applications, Zilliant grew quickly and continues to operate successfully.\n\nPeter Zandan is currently the Global Vice Chairman of Hill+Knowlton Strategies and has developed the firm’s reputation management and communications research offerings. Zandan has provided assistance with international brand development for clients in the financial services, energy, technology, healthcare and retail industries.\nMore specifically, Zandan leads the Research+Data Insights (RDI) corporation underneath the umbrella organization of Hill+Knowlton Strategies. Zandan has helped RDI yield data-based insights that deliver metrics and counsel in brand health, communication, and data analytics.\n\nIn June 2013, Zandan was selected to be a member of the President’s Circle of the National Academy of Science. The purpose of the President’s circle is to engage with leaders of various scientific disciplines from engineering to medicine in an effort to ensure that they have the intellectual and financial resources to sustain/enhance their research. The President’s Circle is an honorary association and membership is acquired through invitations from the presidents of the three Academies.\n\nAlong with being honored in 1998 as a lifetime member of the McCombs Business School’s Advisory Council starting, Zandan has served on the board of public television station KLRU since the same year. He has also invested in and advised new media companies including Wize, Inc., Klout (sold to Lithium Technologies), and Next Big Sound (sold to Pandora).\nPeter Zandan’s angel investing in such companies as Next Big Sound has allowed him to continue to remain an active part of the startup company scene.\n\nPeter Zandan has impacted the Austin community through his social analytics work and external involvement. The Zandan Poll is an annual report that surveys Austin-area residents to assess their attitudes on the community, economy, health, and transportation of the city. As a longtime citizen of Austin, Zandan has watched the community grow over the years and wanted to create an objective tool to measure how Austinites felt their community was evolving. Zandan provides this as his gift to the Austin community. With the help of KLRU, Hill+Knowlton Strategies, RDI, and Cambia Information Group, the poll has expanded into other areas such as “cultural identity” and affordability in order to increase understanding and dialogue on key community issues.\n\nZandan has also received Austin’s “Soul of the City” business award for his contributions to the community and is the co-chair of the Austin 360 Summit, a one-day issues conference for Austin’s high-tech executives. Additionally, he chairs the Austin City Limits committee as a member of the board of directors of KLRU-TV.\n\nFor growing IntelliQuest into one of the fastest-growing market research firms in the 1990s, Peter Zandan received the Ernst and Young’s Entrepreneur of the Year Award in 1993 for High Technology and Electronics. The award represents an elite corp of men and women who have been recognized for their exceptional entrepreneurial achievements.\nDue to his extensive work in the Austin area, Peter Zandan was also awarded the “Best Visionary” Award by \"The Austin Chronicle\", a weekly newspaper in Austin, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "38245248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38245248", "title": "Prakash Chandra Mishra", "text": "Prakash Chandra Mishra\n\nPrakash Chandra Mishra is an associate professor (II), in School of Mechanical Engineering, KIIT University. Prior to moving to KIIT, he did a year’s postdoctoral research work in Loughborough University after receiving his PhD in December 2008.\n\nHis M.Tech. at IIT Delhi he published a paper on elliptic bore journal bearing modeling for which he was awarded (10.0/10.0) for outstanding project and an EPSRC, UK research studentship with full tuition fees and maintenance to carry out PhD in engine tribology and dynamics at Wolfson School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, Loughborough University, UK. He has been accredited with h-index 6 at Google Scholar. He has served as the convener of 1st, 2nd and 3rd KIIT International Symposium on Advances in Automotive Technology \nHe was involved in an international-level project entitled \"ENCYCLOPAEDIC\". It was a £3.5 million EPSRC grant in association with Loughborough University, Cranfield University and University of Sheffield. Industries like Aston Martin Lagonda, British Petroleum and Ricardo plc were also part of this project. He was part of the Numerical team to estimate friction between piston skirt and cylinder liner contact using tribodynamic technique.\n"}
{"id": "17230169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17230169", "title": "Prince Bojidar Karageorgevitch", "text": "Prince Bojidar Karageorgevitch\n\nPrince Bojidar Karageorgevitch ( / \"Knez Božidar Karađorđević\"; 11 January 1862 – 2 April 1908), Serbian artist and writer on art, world traveller, and member of the Serbian Karađorđević dynasty. He gave singing and drawing lessons and later earned his living as an art critic and translator. He was a contributor to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", \"Le Figaro\", \"La Revue de Paris\", \"Revue des Revues\", \"Magazine of Art\", and other publications.\n\nPrince Bojidar belonged to the senior line of the Karađorđević dynasty (his older brother was Prince Alexis Karađorđević). He was the second son of Prince George Karađorđević and his wife Sara Karađorđević (born Sara Anastasijević). His grandfather Prince Aleksa was the eldest son of Karađorđe Petrović, the founder of the House of Karađorđević and leader of the First Serbian Uprising.\n\nPrince Bojidar lived in France for most of his life as the members of the Karađorđević dynasty were in exile after Prince Alexander Karađorđević lost the Serbian throne in 1858. Bojidar travelled a lot and went on a number of trips around the world. He served in the French Army and fought in the French campaign at Tonking and was decorated with the Cross of the Legion of Honour. To earn a living he gave singing and drawing lessons before becoming a translator and journalist. He visited Serbia twice at the turn of the century (1897 and either late 1899 or early 1900), both times semi-incognito, trying to evaluate the general feel in the population about a possible replacement of the Obrenović dynasty with the Karađorđevićs should King Alexander Obrenović die childless, as was expected to happen at the time, due to the King's marriage with Queen Draga of an age beyond childbirth years at the time. He also visited Serbia once after his second cousin once removed King Peter I Karađorđević was enthroned but became disillusioned with the treatment he received (mostly ignored by his regal relative).\n\nDuring one of his trips abroad, he travelled extensively around India, visiting thirty eight cities. He wrote a book about his experiences called \"Enchanted India\" in which he offered an account of the Indian people, their religious rites, and other ceremonies. He also provided detailed descriptions of the Indian landscape and buildings. He also translated works of Tolstoy and Hungarian dramatist Mór Jókai.\n\nTaking an interest in art, he visited Munich, Dresden, and Berlin and spent some months in Italy; afterwards he settled at Paris. There he regularly contributed articles to the \"Figaro\", \"La Revue de Paris\", the \"Magazine of Art\" (Ilya Repin, Jules Bastien-Lepage), including a biography of Marie Bashkirtseff in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica, 11th Edition, Vol. III\". Like all journalists he was drawn to the cabarets of Montmartre, the haunt of artists, writers, poets, philosophers. It was there he met and befriended French stage actress Sarah Bernhardt, pioneer of modern dance Loïe Fuller, French poet, novelist and noted orientalist Judith Gautier, Suzanne Meyer-Zundel, Austrian composer Hugo Wolf, painter and illustrator Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, and founder of the Ballets Russes Sergei Diaghilev. Biographer Stevan K. Pavlowitch claims that the Prince was openly gay and had no relationship with women except purely platonic.\n\nIn his later years Prince Karadjordjevitch turned his attention in decoration, and executed panels and medallions for a Paris atelier as a designer, sculptor, painter and silversmith, and often spent time with Georges Lacombe, Émile Bernard, Paul Sérusier and other members of Les Nabis. Karageorgevitch's paintings, illustrations, watercolors and silversmith works were first exhibited in Belgrade in 1908.\n\nAs a journalist and a publicist he advocated the emancipation of all Slavs and Romanians under the Habsburg Monarchy; he also favoured the emancipation of the small states in the south-east of Europe, particularly Serbian lands, from Turkish supremacy. Prince Karadjordjevitch, who is known to a wider circle as a friend of writer Pierre Loti and the great Russian artist Marie Bashkirtseff, published some reminiscences, \"La Vie Multiple,\" and \"Notes sur L'Inde\", both issued posthumously. Marie Bashkirtseff's friend since adolescence, Karadjordjevitch stood by her side during her last days and he was present at her deathbed. She was only 25 when she died, a victim of tuberculosis, in 1884. On the 20th anniversary of her death, in 1904 January edition of \"Revue des Revues\", Karadjordjevitch would describe Bashkirtseff's last moments:\n\n\"Marie rises a bit, releases a soft sigh, the sigh of tiny children when waking, and two thick tears roll down her cheek...then her head falls again into the pillow.\"\n\nHe died at Versailles on 2 April 1908.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24513359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24513359", "title": "Prince Moulay Ismail of Morocco", "text": "Prince Moulay Ismail of Morocco\n\nPrince Moulay Ismail of Morocco ()\n(born 7 May 1981) is the son of Prince Moulay Abdallah and Lalla Lamia Solh. His mother is daughter of Riad Al Solh, the first Prime minister of Lebanon. The Prince has one older brother, Prince Moulay Hicham.\n\nOn 25 September 2009, he married Anissa Lehmkuhl, the daughter of Lieutenant-Colonel Omar Lehmkuhl and his wife, Amina (German citizens converted to Islamic faith). They had issue, one son and four daughters: \n\nPrince Ismail owns Theora holding, which has a 35% stake in the now-defunct KIA Maroc (exclusive dealer of KIA cars in Morocco) and also co-owns a number of food & restaurants franchises such as Pizza Del Arte (subsidiary of Groupe Le Duff).\n\n"}
{"id": "24120375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24120375", "title": "René Grillet de Roven", "text": "René Grillet de Roven\n\nRené Grillet de Roven, also René Grilliet, was a French mechanic and watchmaker who designed a mechanical calculating machine in the 17th century.\n\nGrillet came from Rouen in northwestern France, the capital city of Normandy. He served as watchmaker to King Louis XIV.\nIn 1673 Grillet published a small book, \"Curiositez mathematiques de l'invention du Sr Grillet horlogeur a Paris\", in which he announced the invention of an arithmetical calculating machine. A few years later, in 1678, he wrote a short article in \"Le Journal des Sçavans\" describing the machine. According to Grillet, he was inspired by Blaise Pascal's work with calculating machines to combine the Pascaline with Napier's bones, and build a machine that could perform both addition and multiplication.\n\nGrillet displayed his machine at fairs in France and the Netherlands between 1673 and 1681. He tried to establish a business of manufacturing and selling calculating machines, with unclear success.\n\nIn addition to the calculating machine, in his career Grillet invented a hygrometer (for which he was accused of plagiarism by another inventor); graphometers; drawing instrument set; protractor, set square, with plumb-bob.\n\nIn 1690, the first textile-printing factory in England was established by a Frenchman named René Grillet, who took out a patent on the process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50658948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50658948", "title": "Te Mārama", "text": "Te Mārama\n\nTe Mārama was most likely a Māori woman possibly from a tribe (iwi) in northern New Zealand. \n\nTe Mārama signed the Treaty of Waitangi on an unknown date, but it was probably in the Bay of Islands. She was one of a select few of Māori women who signed the treaty.\n"}
{"id": "8584894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8584894", "title": "Watchlist (NGO)", "text": "Watchlist (NGO)\n\nThe Watchlist on Children and Armed Conflict is a global network of local, national and international non-governmental organizations which strives to end violations against children in armed conflicts and to guarantee their rights. Together with its partners, Watchlist strategically collects and disseminates information on violations against children in conflicts in order to influence key decision-makers to create and implement programs and policies that effectively protect children. Watchlist’s three main activities are Monitoring & Reporting, Advancing the Children and Armed Conflict Agenda and Strengthening Local Capacity.\n\nThrough its country reports, Watchlist provides information on violations against children in situations of armed conflict and makes practical recommendations to policy makers to ensure protection and assistance for children. Watchlist has published reports on the situation of children in Afghanistan, Angola, Burundi, Colombia, D.R. Congo, Liberia, OPT/Israel, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Sudan. Watchlist strengthens field-level monitoring, reporting and response to violations against children by building partnerships, enhancing the technical capacity of local NGOs and linking local voices with international policy makers.\n\nWatchlist provides policy advice to high-level decision makers towards improving child protection programs and policies, with a focus on the UN Security Council and the UN-led Monitoring and Reporting Mechanism on Children and Armed Conflict (MRM). Watchlist has also published a series of policy papers and statements.\n\n"}
{"id": "55979235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55979235", "title": "Yanjaa", "text": "Yanjaa\n\nYanjaa Wintersoul, known mononymously as Yanjaa (\"born\" \"Altansükhiyn Yanzhindulam\"; 1993-1994) is a Mongolian-Swedish triple world-record holding memory athlete, public speaker, and polyglot. She is one of only 22 international grandmasters of memory. She first rose to prominence in memory sports in 2014 by winning the team gold medal as well as first place in names and faces at the World Memory Championships 2014 in Haikou, China during her first year of memory training, at the age of 20.\n\nIn December 2017, she broke two world records at the 2017 World Memory Championships in Jakarta, Indonesia by memorizing 212 names and faces in 15 minutes and 354 random images in 5 minutes. In August 2018, Yanjaa broke a third world record at the Korean Memory Championships 2018 by memorizing 145 random words in 5 minutes.\n\nYanjaa and Mongolian teammate Munkhshur Narmandakh became the first women in history to place at the world event, placing in bronze and silver position respectively out of over 130 contestants.\n\nYanjaa was born in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia to a Buryat-Mongolian mother and a Khalkha-Mongolian father. She grew up in Mongolia, Stockholm, Tokyo and attended boarding school in Kenya at the Swedish School of Nairobi where she studied Swahili and philosophy. Yanjaa graduated from Stockholm Business School with a degree in Business and Economics, where she was an active member of the student council marketing team. She also attended the University of Uppsala to study art history during this time.\n\nYanjaa was originally inspired to compete in memory after reading Moonwalking with Einstein by American author and former US memory champion Joshua Foer. She entered her first memory competition two months after reading it, receiving the newcomer award and placing first in the discipline names and faces at a German Open Memory competition in Munich, Germany. She has since medalled in a number of competitions as well as broken numerous memory records (see \"Records\"). In 2015 Yanjaa was invited as one of the top 200 \"Leaders of Tomorrow\" at the 46th St. Gallen Symposium in St. Gallen, Switzerland for her achievements in memory sports at a young age.\n\nIn 2015 Yanjaa starred in the Swedish documentary \"Masterminds,\" following the moments leading up to the Swedish Memory Championships 2014 where she placed second overall. Yanjaa was featured in the 2016 documentary \"How to Remember Everything\", which covered the 2014 World Memory Championships in Haikou, China. Yanjaa was invited to speak at Investor AB's 100th anniversary, where she demonstrated recall of 10 of the 100 names and faces she had to memorize. She has also been interviewed and featured for memory training and language learning on Today, The Guardian, Wired as well as numerous national media publications in Sweden, China and Mongolia. She is currently in production for a documentary with the working title \"Memory Games\" with Emmy Award-winning director Janet Tobias.\n\nYanjaa was a contestant on the final season of the Chinese television program The Brain in 2017, defeating her opponent Yu Yipei by memorizing more synthesized images winning on accuracy over speed. She was a contestant on the 2017 comeback season of the talent show Talang, the Swedish version of Got Talent. In the audition round, Yanjaa received the golden buzzer from judge Alexander Bard and immediately advanced to the semifinals by memorizing twenty names and faces in 90 seconds. After a successful semi-finals round in which she memorized 30 digits in 30 seconds, she advanced to the finals where she ended up in fifth place.\n\nIn September 2017 Yanjaa was featured as the \"IKEA Human Catalogue 2018\", having memorized the entire catalogue in just a week before the launch of the new catalogue. The campaign was a success landing press conferences in Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore and multiple appearances on the Steve Harvey show and other talk shows. In May 2018, the campaign was voted as people's voice and the official jury's Webby award for best social media ad campaign.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of September 11, 2018, Yanjaa holds 3 world records, 6 national records and ranks 7th in the world as a memory athlete.\n\n\n"}
