{"id": "11438309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11438309", "title": "Abibion", "text": "Abibion\n\nAbibion (fl. 5th century) was one of the founders of Bet-Coryph monastery in Byzantine Syria, together with Eusebonas. He also served as first abbot of that monastery. He is included in the \"Heiligen-Lexicon\". He received his instruction from Eusebius. His feast day, if he had one, is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "38626269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38626269", "title": "Ahimsa Award", "text": "Ahimsa Award\n\nThe Ahimsa Award is an annual award given by Institute of Jainology in recognition of individuals who embody and promote the principles of Ahimsa (Non-violence). It was established in 2006 and has since been awarded at the annual “Ahimsa Day” event, on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nThe event is normally held at the Palace of Westminster - House of Commons of the United Kingdom in London where various members of Parliament are invited to speak. It is bestowed by the Directors of the Institute of Jainology, an international body based in UK, representing the Jainism faith.\n\nAhimsa Day was established by the Institute of Jainology and has been celebrated annually in London since 2002. It was created to bring awareness of Ahimsa (non-violence) as it applies in Jainism. The event takes place in early October to commemorate the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, who amongst other great leaders was inspired by the Jain philosophy of 'ahimsa'. In 2007, the United Nations declared that the International Day of Non-Violence would take place on 2 October, the birth date of Mahatma Gandhi. This annual event highlights the principle of non-violence and the worldwide desire for peace.\n\nAhimsa, (The principle of non-violence), is a concept adopted by most Indic traditions, primarily Buddhist, Hindu and Jain philosophy . The political and social application of Ahimsa was given universal recognition by Mahatma Gandhi who fought the campaign for the independence of India with the doctrine of ahimsa as the cornerstone.\n\nAhimsa in Jainism, is a well-established core principle even before the time of Mahavira, the 24th Thirthankara in the 5th century BC. The principle of Ahimsa in Jainism states that one should do no harm by word, thought or deed, nor ask others to, and nor condone that which is done.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8525699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8525699", "title": "Assassination of Orlando Letelier", "text": "Assassination of Orlando Letelier\n\nThe assassination of Orlando Letelier refers to the September 21, 1976, car bombing, in Washington, D.C., of Orlando Letelier, a leading opponent of Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet. Letelier, who was living in exile in the United States, was killed along with Ronni Karpen Moffitt, who was in the car along with her husband Michael, who worked for Letelier. The assassination was carried out by agents of the Chilean secret police (the DINA), and was one among many carried out as part of Operation Condor. Declassified U.S. intelligence documents confirm that Pinochet directly ordered the killing.\n\nIn 1971, Letelier was appointed ambassador to the United States by Salvador Allende, the socialist president of Chile. Letelier had lived in Washington, D.C. during the 1960s and had supported Allende's campaign for the presidency. Allende believed Letelier's experience and connections in international banking would be highly beneficial to developing US–Chile diplomatic relations. During 1973, Letelier served successively as Minister of Foreign Affairs, then Interior Minister, and, finally, Defense Minister. After the Chilean coup of 1973 that brought Augusto Pinochet to power, Letelier was one of the first members of the Allende administration to be arrested by the Chilean government and sent to a political prison in Tierra del Fuego.\n\nHe was held for 12 months in different concentration camps suffering severe torture: first at the Tacna Regiment, then at the Military Academy. Later he was sent to a political prison for eight months at Dawson Island. From there he was transferred to the basement of the Air Force War Academy, and finally was sent to the concentration camp of Ritoque. Eventually, international diplomatic pressure especially from Diego Arria, then Governor of Distrito Federal of Venezuela, and United States Secretary of State Henry Kissinger resulted in the sudden release of Letelier on the condition that he immediately leave Chile. He was told by the officer in charge of his release that \"the arm of DINA is long, General Pinochet will not and does not tolerate activities against his government.\" This was a clear warning to Letelier that living outside of Chile would not guarantee his safety.\n\nAfter his release in 1974, he moved to Washington, D.C., where he became a senior fellow of the Institute for Policy Studies, an independent international policy studies think tank. He plunged into writing, speaking, and lobbying the US Congress and European governments against Augusto Pinochet's regime, and soon he became the leading voice of the Chilean resistance, in the process preventing several loans (especially from Europe) from being awarded to the military government. He was described by his colleagues as being \"the most respected and effective spokesman in the international campaign to condemn and isolate\" Pinochet's dictatorship. Letelier was assisted at the Institute for Policy Studies by Ronni Moffitt, a 25-year-old fundraiser who ran a \"Music Carryout\" program that produced musical instruments for the poor, and also campaigned for democracy in Chile.\n\nLetelier soon became a person of interest for Operation Condor, a campaign initiated by right-wing dictatorships in South America to gather intelligence on opposition movements and to assassinate the leaders of these movements. Former General and political figure Carlos Prats, who had become a vocal opponent of the Pinochet government, was killed by a radio-controlled car bomb on September 30, 1974, in an assassination planned and executed by members of DINA. Letelier's pro-democracy campaign and his vehement criticisms of Pinochet had been under watch by the Chilean government. Letelier became a target in DINA director Manuel Contreras' efforts to eliminate resistance to the Pinochet government.\n\nIn October 1975, Letelier became the Director of Planning and Development for the International Political Economy Programme of the Transnational Institute, an international think tank for progressive politics affiliated with the Institute for Policy Studies. Through the institute's operations in the Netherlands, Letelier convinced the Dutch government not to invest US$63 million in the Chilean mining industry. On September 10, 1976, the Chilean government revoked Letelier's Chilean citizenship. Pinochet signed a decree declaring that the former ambassador's citizenship be canceled for his interference \"with normal financial support to Chile\" and his efforts \"to hinder or prevent the investment of Dutch capital in Chile\". Later that day, in a speech he delivered at the Felt Forum in Madison Square Garden, Letelier proclaimed:\n\nOrlando Letelier was traveling to work in Washington DC on September 21, 1976, with Ronni Moffitt (January 10, 1951September 21, 1976) and her husband of four months, Michael. Letelier was driving, while Moffitt was in the front passenger seat and Michael was in the rear behind his wife. As they rounded Sheridan Circle in Embassy Row at 9:35 am EDT, an explosion erupted under the car, lifting it off the ground. When the car came to a halt after colliding with a Volkswagen illegally parked in front of the Irish Embassy, Michael was able to escape from the rear end of the car by crawling out of the back window. He then saw his wife stumbling away from the car and, assuming that she was safe, went to assist Letelier, who was still in the driver seat, barely conscious and appearing to be in great pain. Letelier's head was rolling back and forth, his eyes moved slightly, and he muttered unintelligibly. Michael tried to remove Letelier from the car but was unable to do so despite the fact that much of Letelier's lower torso was blown away and his legs had been severed.\n\nBoth Ronni Moffitt and Orlando Letelier were taken to the George Washington University Medical Center shortly thereafter. At the hospital, it was discovered Ronni's larynx and carotid artery had been severed by a piece of flying shrapnel. She drowned in her own blood some 30 minutes after Letelier's death, while Michael suffered only a minor head wound. Michael estimated the bomb was detonated at approximately 9:30 am; the medical examiner report set the time of Letelier's death at 9:50 am and Moffitt's at 10:37 am, the cause of death for both listed as explosion-incurred injuries due to a car bomb placed under the car on the driver's side.\n\nInvestigators initially determined that the explosion was caused by a plastic bomb, molded to concentrate the force of its blast into the driver seat. The bomb was attached by wires or magnets to the car's underside and blew a \"circular hole, 2 to 2½ feet in diameter\" in the driver's seat. The bomb was not believed to have been controlled by a timing device or a remote-controlled detonator.\n\nIn the days after the incident, spokespersons for the United States Department of State said the department \"expresses its gravest concern about Dr. Orlando Letelier's death\". Due to the assassination of Prats and the attempted assassination of Bernardo Leighton, the incident was believed to have been the latest of a series of state-sponsored assassination attempts against Chilean political exiles. A spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said that this was the first incident of violence against Chilean exiles on American soil, according to agency records.\n\nThe FBI eventually uncovered evidence that Michael Townley, a DINA US expatriate, had organized the assassination of Orlando Letelier on behalf of Chile. Townley and Armando Fernandez Larios, who was also implicated in the murder, had been given visas to enter the United States.\n\nIn 1978, Chile agreed to turn Townley over to the United States, where he began to testify extensively. Townley pleaded guilty and confessed that he had contacted five anti-Castro Cuban exiles to help him booby-trap Letelier's car. According to Jean-Guy Allard, after consultations with the Coordination of United Revolutionary Organizations (CORU) leadership, including Luis Posada Carriles and Orlando Bosch, those elected to carry out the murder were Cuban-Americans José Dionisio Suárez Esquivel, Virgilio Paz Romero, Alvin Ross Díaz, and brothers Guillermo and Ignacio Novo Sampoll . According to the \"Miami Herald\", Luis Posada Carriles was at this meeting, which formalized details that led to Letelier's death and also the \"Cubana\" bombing two weeks later. Townley also agreed to provide evidence against these men in exchange for a deal that involved his pleading guilty to a single charge of conspiracy to commit murder and being given a ten-year sentence. His wife, Mariana Callejas, also agreed to testify in exchange for not being prosecuted.\n\nOn January 9, 1979, the trial of the Novo Sampoll brothers and Díaz began in Washington. All three were found guilty of murder. Guillermo Novo and Díaz were sentenced to life imprisonment. Ignacio Novo received eight years. However the three were acquitted at a new trial. Townley served about half of a 10-year sentence and was freed under the Witness Protection Program. Dionisio Suarez and Virgilio Paz remained fugitives until they were apprehended in the 1990s. They pleaded guilty and served short sentences.\n\nIn 1987, Larios fled Chile with the assistance of the FBI, claiming he feared that Pinochet was planning to kill him because he refused to co-operate in cover-up activities related to the Letelier murder. On February 4, 1987, Larios pleaded guilty to one count of acting as an accessory to the murder. In exchange for the plea and information about the plot, the authorities dropped the charges.\n\nSeveral other people were also prosecuted and convicted for the murder. Among them were General Manuel Contreras, former head of the DINA, and Brigadier Pedro Espinoza Bravo, also formerly of the DINA. Contreras and Espinoza were convicted in Chile on November 12, 1993, and sentenced to seven and six years of prison respectively.\n\nIn 2000, 16,000 documents that were previously secret were released by various United States government departments and agencies as part of an effort to declassify materials related to political violence and human rights violations from the late 1960s to early 1990s in Chile. According to United States Department of State, Pinochet called fellow right-wing dictator, Paraguayan General Alfredo Stroessner, in 1976 and requested that Townley and Fernandez Larios received passports with phony names. Almost immediately after stamping the visas, State Department officials realized the passports had been falsely obtained and canceled the visas; however, Townley and Fernandez Larios were able to enter the US in August 1976.\n\nPinochet, who died on December 10, 2006, was never charged in relation to this case. Orlando Letelier's son, representative Juan Pablo Letelier, gave this testimony: \"What I have said once and again because I was taught to say the truth is that there is no evidence whatsoever from the thousands of pages of the process that may allow to affirm that there was participation of the Chilean Army nor of its Commander in Chief (General Pinochet) in the assassination of Orlando Letelier\" (El Mercurio, June 4, 1995).\n\nAccording to John Dinges, author of \"The Condor Years (The New Press 2003)\", documents released in 2015 revealed a CIA report dated April 28, 1978 that showed the agency by then had knowledge that Pinochet ordered the murders. The report stated “Contreras told a confidant he authorized the assassination of Letelier on orders from Pinochet.\" A State Department document also referred to eight separate CIA reports from around the same date, each sourced to “extremely sensitive informants” who provided evidence of Pinochet’s direct involvement in ordering the assassination and in directing the subsequent cover-up. FBI Carter Cornick, an FBI special agent credited with solving the case with his partner Robert Scherrer, said that the information was hearsay gathered from people who might provide the CIA with information but would never appear in court.\n\nWhen Townley and his Chilean associate tried to obtain B-2 visas to the United States in Paraguay, Landau was told by Paraguayan intelligence that these Paraguayan subjects were to meet with General Vernon A. Walters in the United States, concerning CIA business. Landau was suspicious of this declaration, and cabled for more information. The B-2 visas were revoked by the State Department on August 9, 1976. However, under the same names, two DINA agents used fraudulent Chilean passports to travel to the U.S. on diplomatic A-2 visas, in order to shadow Letelier. Townley himself flew to the U.S. on a fraudulent Chilean passport and under another assumed name. Landau had made copies of the visa applications though, which later documented the relationship of Townley and DINA with the Paraguayan visa applications.\n\nAccording to Dinges, documents released in 1999 and 2000 establish that \"the CIA had inside intelligence about the assassination alliance at least two months before Letelier was killed, but failed to act to stop the plans.\" The intelligence was about Condor's plans to kill prominent exiles outside of Latin America, but did not specify Letelier was the target. It also knew about an Uruguayan attempt to kill U.S. Congressman Edward Koch, which then-CIA director George H.W. Bush warned him about only after Orlando Letelier's murder .\n\nKenneth Maxwell points out that U.S. policymakers were aware not only of Operation Condor in general, but in particular \"that a Chilean assassination team had been planning to enter the United States.\" A month before the Letelier assassination, Kissinger ordered \"that the Latin American rulers involved be informed that the 'assassination of subversives, politicians and prominent figures both within the national borders of certain Southern Cone countries and abroad ... would create a most serious moral and political problem.\" Maxwell wrote in his review of Peter Kornbluh's book, \"This demarche was apparently not delivered: the U.S. embassy in Santiago demurred on the ground that to deliver such a strong rebuke would upset the dictator\", and that, on September 20, 1976, the day before Letelier and Moffitt were killed, the State Department instructed the ambassadors to take no further action with regard to the Condor scheme. [Maxwell, 2004, 18].\n\nOn April 10, 2010, the Associated Press reported that a document discovered by the National Security Archive indicated that the State Department communique that was supposed to have gone out to the Chilean government warning against the assassinations had been blocked by then Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.\n\nDuring the FBI investigation into the assassination, documents in Letelier's possession were copied and leaked to journalists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak of the \"Washington Times\" and Jack Anderson by the FBI before being returned to his widow. The documents purportedly show Letelier was working with Eastern Block Intelligence agencies for a decade iand coordinating his activities with the surviving political leadership of the Popular Unity coalition exiled in East Berlin. The FBI suspected that these individuals had been recruited by the Stasi. Documents in the briefcase showed that Letelier had maintained contact with Salvador Allende’s daughter, Beatriz Allende who was married to Cuban DGI station chief Luis Fernandez Ona.\n\nThe documents showed Letelier was receive $5,000 a month from the Cuban government and under the supervision of Beatriz Allende, he used his contacts within the Institute for Policy Studies (IPS), and western human rights groups to organize a campaign within the United Nations as well as the US Congress to isolate the new Chilean government This organized pressure on Pinochet’s government was allegedly closely coordinated by the Cuban and Soviet governments, perhaps using individuals like Letelier to implement these efforts. Letelier's briefcase also contained his address book containing the names of dozens of known and suspected East Block intelligence agents. Correspondence between Letelier and individuals in Cuba had been handled via Julian Rizo, who used his diplomatic status to hide his activities.\n\nFellow IPS member and friend Saul Landau described Evans and Novak as part of an “organized right wing attack”. In 1980, Letelier's widow, Isabel, wrote in \"The New York Times\" that the money sent to her late husband from Cuba was from western sources, and that Cuba had simply acted as an intermediary, although Novak and Evans point out that the document from Beatriz Allende were very clear on the source of the money.\n\nBritish film director Alan Clarke was in the pre-production stages of making the story into a film titled \"Assassination on Embassy Row\". Whilst putting the film together in the US, Clarke was diagnosed with lung cancer and returned to the United Kingdom. Following Clarke's death in 1990, the project was shelved.\n\nA minor character in the 1983 film \"Scarface\", Dr. Orlando Gutiérrez, was based on Letelier. Gutiérrez is a Bolivian investigative journalist who intends to expose the ties between the corrupt Bolivian military dictatorship and drug lord Alejandro Sosa (based on Roberto Suárez Goméz). Tony Montana and one of Sosa's henchmen plant a bomb in Gutiérrez' car, planning to detonate it in front of the United Nations Building in New York, but Montana changes his mind at the last minute and kills the henchman.\n\nThe 1986 novel \"Waking the Dead\" (which was adapted into film in 2000) includes a car bomb placed on American soil by Chilean operatives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40729392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40729392", "title": "Capital punishment in Luxembourg", "text": "Capital punishment in Luxembourg\n\nCapital punishment in Luxembourg was abolished for all crimes in 1979.\n\nThe last execution in Luxembourg took place in 1949.\n\nLuxembourg is a member of the European Union and of the Council of Europe; and has also signed and ratified Protocol no.13.\n"}
{"id": "5044343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5044343", "title": "Citizen Cyborg", "text": "Citizen Cyborg\n\nCitizen Cyborg: Why Democratic Societies Must Respond to the Redesigned Human of the Future is a 2004 non-fiction book by bioethicist and sociologist James Hughes, which articulates democratic transhumanism as a socio-political ideology and program.\n\nThe editors of the popular science magazine \"Scientific American\" recommended \"Citizen Cyborg\" in their April 2005 issue.\n\n\n\nReviews\n"}
{"id": "28168533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28168533", "title": "Consensus forecast", "text": "Consensus forecast\n\nUsed in a number of sciences, ranging from econometrics to meteorology, consensus forecasts are predictions of the future that are created by combining together several separate forecasts which have often been created using different methodologies. Also known as \"combining forecasts\", \"forecast averaging\" or \"model averaging\" (in econometrics and statistics) and \"committee machines\", \"ensemble averaging\" or \"expert aggregation\" (in machine learning). Applications can range from forecasting the weather to predicting the annual Gross Domestic Product of a country or the number of cars a company or an individual dealer is likely to sell in a year. While forecasts are often made for future values of a time series, they can also be for one-off events such as the outcome of a presidential election or a football match.\n\nForecasting plays a key role in any organisation's planning process as it provides insight into uncertainty. Through simulation, one will be able to assess whether proposed strategies are likely to produce the desired objectives within predefined limits. In the field of economic forecasting, the future path of the economy is intrinsic to almost every company's business outlook, and hence there is considerable demand for accurate economic forecasts. Matching this strong demand is the large volume of readily available forecast information from governments, international agencies and various private firms. Companies such as Consensus Economics and Blue Chip Economic Indicators specialise in publishing economic forecast data, with the former covering most major regions of the world and the latter focusing on the US economy. However, deciphering the best forecast method is no easy task, and largely depends on the objectives of the user and the constraints they are likely to face. Rather than try to identify a single best forecasting method, an alternative approach is to combine the results from independent forecasters and take an average of the forecasts.\n\nThis method of taking a simple mean average of a panel of independent forecasts, derived from different forecasting methods, is known as combining forecasts and the result is often referred to as a consensus forecast. Unless a particular forecast model which produces smaller forecast errors compared to other individual forecasts can be identified, adopting the consensus approach can be beneficial due to diversification gains. Combining economic forecasts is well established in many countries and can count central banks, government institutions and businesses among the users. In recent decades, consensus forecasts have attracted much interest, backed by the publication of a huge swathe of academic research on forecast accuracy. Empirical studies show that pooling forecasts increased forecast accuracy. One of the advantages of using consensus forecasts is that it can prove useful if there is a high degree of uncertainty or risk attached to the situation and the selection of the most accurate forecast in advance is difficult. Even if one method is identified as the best, combining is still worthwhile if other methods can make some positive contribution to the forecast accuracy. Moreover, many factors can affect the independent forecast and these, along with any additional useful information, might be captured by using the consensus approach. Another argument in favour of this method is that individual forecasts may be subject to numerous behavioural biases, but these can be minimised by combining independent forecasts together. Hence, combining is seen as helping to improve forecast accuracy by reducing the forecast errors of individual forecasts. Furthermore, averaging forecasts is likely to be more useful when the data and the forecasting techniques that the component forecasts are drawn from differ substantially. And even though it is only a simple approach (typically an unweighted mean average), this method is just as useful as other more sophisticated models. Indeed, more recent studies in the past decade have shown that, over time, the equal weights combined forecast is usually more accurate than the individual forecast which make up the consensus.\n\nIn sum, the usefulness of the consensus forecast technique has been supported by a wealth of empirical studies in recent decades. The use of equal weights in the combining method is appealing because of its simplicity and is easy to describe. Among others, this simple method of averaging the forecasts of individual forecasters has been put into practice by many of the world's central banks as they try to gauge expectations in the private sector. An empirical study carried out by Roy Batchelor in 2000 demonstrates greater accuracy in the consensus forecasts over macroeconomic projections produced by leading multinational agencies such as the International Monetary Fund and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. A study by Robert C. Jones found: \"At least since the publication of “The Combination of Forecasts” (Bates and Granger [1969]), economists have known that combining forecasts from different sources can both improve accuracy and reduce forecaster error. In the intervening years, numerous studies have confirmed these conclusions, outlined conditions under which forecast combinations are most effective, and tried to explain why simple equal weights work so well relative to more sophisticated statistical techniques.” \n\nAlthough the literature on the combination of point forecasts is very rich, the topic of combining probabilistic forecasts is not so popular. There are very few papers that deal explicitly with the combination of interval forecasts, however, there has been some progress in the area of density forecasts. A simple, yet powerful alternative technique has been introduced in the context of electricity price forecasting. Quantile Regression Averaging (QRA) involves applying quantile regression to the point forecasts of a number of individual forecasting models or experts. It has been found to perform extremely well in practice - the top two performing teams in the \"price track\" of the Global Energy Forecasting Competition (GEFCom2014) used variants of QRA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34641430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34641430", "title": "Contextual image classification", "text": "Contextual image classification\n\nContextual image classification, a topic of pattern recognition in computer vision, is an approach of classification based on contextual information in images. \"Contextual\" means this approach is focusing on the relationship of the nearby pixels, which is also called neighbourhood. The goal of this approach is to classify the images by using the contextual information.\n\nSimilar as processing language, a single word may have multiple meanings unless the context is provided, and the patterns within the sentences are the only informative segments we care about. For images, the principle is same. Find out the patterns and associate proper meanings to them.\n\nAs the image illustrated below, if only a small portion of the image is shown, it is very difficult to tell what the image is about.\nEven try another portion of the image, it is still difficult to classify the image.\nHowever, if we increase the contextual of the image, then it makes more sense to recognize.\nAs the full images shows below, almost everyone can classify it easily.\nDuring the procedure of segmentation, the methods which do not use the contextual information are sensitive to noise and variations, thus the result of segmentation will contain a great deal of misclassified regions, and often these regions are small (e.g., one pixel).\n\nCompared to other techniques, this approach is robust to noise and substantial variations for it takes the continuity of the segments into account.\n\nSeveral methods of this approach will be described below.\n\nThis approach is very effective against small regions caused by noise. And these small regions are usually formed by few pixels or one pixel. The most probable label is assigned to these regions.\nHowever, there is a drawback of this method. The small regions also can be formed by correct regions rather than noise, and in this case the method is actually making the classification worse.\nThis approach is widely used in remote sensing applications.\n\nThis is a two-stage classification process:\n\nInstead of using single pixels, the neighbour pixels can be merged into homogeneous regions benefiting from contextual information. And provide these regions to classifier.\n\nThe original spectral data can be enriched by adding the contextual information carried by the neighbour pixels, or even replaced in some occasions. This kind of pre-processing methods are widely used in textured image recognition. The typical approaches include mean values, variances, texture description, etc.\n\nThe classifier uses the grey level and pixel neighbourhood (contextual information) to assign labels to pixels. In such case the information is a combination of spectral and spatial information.\n\nContextual classification of image data is based on the Bayes minimum error classifier (also known as a naive Bayes classifier).\n\nPresent the pixel:\n\n\n\nThe neighbourhood:\nSize of the neighbourhood. There is no limitation of the size, but it is considered to be relatively small for each pixel formula_1.\nA reasonable size of neighbourhood would be formula_15 of 4-connectivity or 8-connectivity (formula_1 is marked as red and placed in the centre).\nThe calculation:\n\nApply the minimum error classification on a pixel formula_1, if the probability of a class formula_18 being presenting the pixel formula_1 is the highest among all, then assign formula_18 as its class.\n\nThe contextual classification rule is described as below, it uses the feature vector formula_22 rather than formula_1.\n\nUse the Bayes formula to calculate the posteriori probability formula_25\n\nThe number of vectors is the same as the number of pixels in the image. For the classifier uses a vector corresponding to each pixel formula_27, and the vector is generated from the pixel's neighbourhood.\n\nThe basic steps of contextual image classification:\n\nThe template matching is a \"brute force\" implementation of this approach. The concept is first create a set of templates, and then look for small parts in the image match with a template.\n\nThis method is computationally high and inefficient. It keeps an entire templates list during the whole process and the number of combinations is extremely high. For a formula_33 pixel image, there could be a maximum of formula_34 combinations, which leads to high computation. This method is a top down method and often called table look-up or dictionary look-up.\n\nThe Markov chain also can be applied in pattern recognition. The pixels in an image can be recognised as a set of random variables, then use the lower order Markov chain to find the relationship among the pixels. The image is treated as a virtual line, and the method uses conditional probability.\n\nThe Hilbert curve runs in a unique pattern through the whole image, it traverses every pixel without visiting any of them twice and keeps a continuous curve. It is fast and efficient.\n\nThe lower-order Markov chain and Hilbert space-filling curves mentioned above are treating the image as a line structure. The Markov meshes however will take the two dimensional information into account.\n\nThe dependency tree is a method using tree dependency to approximate probability distributions.\n\n"}
{"id": "7837798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7837798", "title": "Couvelaire uterus", "text": "Couvelaire uterus\n\nCouvelaire uterus (also known as uteroplacental apoplexy) is a life-threatening condition in which loosening of the placenta (abruptio placentae) causes bleeding that penetrates into the uterine myometrium forcing its way into the peritoneal cavity.\n\nPatients can have pain secondary to uterine contractions, uterine tetany or localized uterine tenderness. Signs can also be due to abruptio placentae including uterine hypertonus, fetal distress, fetal death, and rarely, hypovolemic shock (shock secondary to severe blood loss). The uterus may adopt a bluish/purplish, mottled appearance due to extravasation of blood into uterine muscle.\n\nCouvelaire uterus is a phenomenon wherein the retroplacental blood may penetrate through the thickness of the wall of the uterus into the peritoneal cavity. This may occur after abruptio placentae. The hemorrhage that gets into the decidua basalis ultimately splits the decidua, and the haematoma may remain within the decidua or may extravasate into the myometrium (the muscular wall of the uterus). The myometrium becomes weakened and may rupture due to the increase in intrauterine pressure associated with uterine contractions. This may lead to a life-threatening obstetric emergency requiring urgent delivery of the fetus.\n\nThe occurrence of couvelaire uterus can be prevented by prevention of abruptio placentae. This include proper management of hypertensive states of pregnancy; treatment of maternal diseases like diabetes mellitus, and other collagen disease complicating pregnancy; prevention of trauma during pregnancy; mothers should also avoid smoking or consumption of alcohol during pregnancy.\n\nThe uterus should be evacuated and contractions should be stimulated using intravenous oxytocin; hysterectomy (the removal of the uterus) may be needed in some cases.\n\nThe foetus may be compromised if there is prolonged delivery because of the non-contractile uterus; severe bleeding may cause hypovolemic shock in the mother.\n"}
{"id": "29400891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29400891", "title": "Damendorf Man", "text": "Damendorf Man\n\nDamendorf Man is a German squashed bog body discovered in 1900 in the See Moor at the village Damendorf in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. \n\nThe remains are currently on display at the Archäologisches Landesmuseum. Professor P.V. Glob wrote that the man died in 300 BCE. What is unique about this bog body is the fact that the weight of the peat in the bog had flattened his body. Only his hair, skin, nails and his few clothes were preserved, along with traces of some bones. He was found with a leather belt, shoes, and a pair of breeches.\n\nPrior to the Damendorf Man's discovery, the remains of what are believed to be a woman were found in 1884 in the same bog. The clothing of the corpse is all that remains. A girl was discovered in 1934, dating to 810 BCE. \n"}
{"id": "350966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350966", "title": "Emergent materialism", "text": "Emergent materialism\n\nIn the philosophy of mind, emergent (or emergentist) materialism is a theory which asserts that the mind is an irreducible existent in some sense, albeit not in the sense of being an ontological simple, and that the study of mental phenomena is independent of other sciences.\n\nThe view can be divided into emergence which denies mental causation and emergence which allows for causal effect. A version of the latter type has been advocated by John R. Searle, called biological naturalism. \nThe other main group of materialist views in the philosophy of mind can be labeled non-emergent (or non-emergentist) materialism, and includes identity theory (reductive materialism), philosophical behaviorism, functionalism, and eliminativism (eliminative materialism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25586605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25586605", "title": "Existential nihilism", "text": "Existential nihilism\n\nExistential nihilism is the philosophical theory that life has no intrinsic meaning or value. With respect to the universe, existential nihilism suggests that a single human or even the entire human species is insignificant, without purpose and unlikely to change in the totality of existence. According to the theory, each individual is an isolated being born into the universe, barred from knowing \"why\", yet compelled to invent meaning. The inherent meaninglessness of life is largely explored in the philosophical school of existentialism, where one can potentially create their own subjective \"meaning\" or \"purpose\". Of all types of nihilism, existential nihilism has received the most literary and philosophical attention.\n\nThe idea that meaning and values are without foundation is a form of nihilism, and the existential response to that idea is noting that meaning is not \"a matter of contemplative theory,\" but instead, \"a consequence of engagement and commitment.\"\n\nJean-Paul Sartre wrote in his essay \"Existentialism and Humanism\", \"What do we mean by saying that existence precedes essence? We mean that man first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the world – and defines himself afterwards. If man as the existentialist sees him as not definable, it is because to begin with he is nothing. He will not be anything until later, and then he will be what he makes of himself.\" Here it is made clear what is meant by Existentialists when they say meaning is \"a consequence of engagement and commitment\".\n\nThe theory purports to describe the human situation to create a life outlook and create meaning, which has been summarized as, \"Strut, fret, and delude ourselves as we may, our lives are of no significance, and it is futile to seek or to affirm meaning where none can be found.\" Existential nihilists claim that, to be honest, one must face the absurdity of existence, that he/she will eventually die, and that both religion and metaphysics are simply results of the fear of death.\n\nAccording to Donald A. Crosby, \"There is no justification for life, but also no reason not to live. Those who claim to find meaning in their lives are either dishonest or deluded. In either case, they fail to face up to the harsh reality of the human situations\".\n\nExistential nihilism has been a part of the Western intellectual tradition since the Cyrenaics, such as Hegesias of Cyrene. During the Renaissance, William Shakespeare eloquently summarized the existential nihilist's perspective through Macbeth's mindset in the end of the eponymous play. Arthur Schopenhauer, Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche further expanded on these ideas, and Nietzsche, particularly, has become a major figure in existential nihilism.\n\nThe atheistic existentialist movement spread in 1940s France. Jean-Paul Sartre's \"Being and Nothingness\" and Albert Camus' \"The Myth of Sisyphus\" discussed the topic. Camus wrote further works, such as \"The Stranger\", \"Caligula\", \"The Plague\", \"The Fall\" and \"The Rebel\". Other figures include Martin Heidegger and Jacques Derrida. In addition, Ernest Becker's Pulitzer Prize winning life's work \"The Denial of Death\" is a collection of thoughts on existential nihilism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1098818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1098818", "title": "Gene expression programming", "text": "Gene expression programming\n\nIn computer programming, gene expression programming (GEP) is an evolutionary algorithm that creates computer programs or models. These computer programs are complex tree structures that learn and adapt by changing their sizes, shapes, and composition, much like a living organism. And like living organisms, the computer programs of GEP are also encoded in simple linear chromosomes of fixed length. Thus, GEP is a genotype–phenotype system, benefiting from a simple genome to keep and transmit the genetic information and a complex phenotype to explore the environment and adapt to it.\n\nEvolutionary algorithms use populations of individuals, select individuals according to fitness, and introduce genetic variation using one or more genetic operators. Their use in artificial computational systems dates back to the 1950s where they were used to solve optimization problems (e.g. Box 1957 and Friedman 1959). But it was with the introduction of evolution strategies by Rechenberg in 1965 that evolutionary algorithms gained popularity. A good overview text on evolutionary algorithms is the book \"An Introduction to Genetic Algorithms\" by Mitchell (1996).\n\nGene expression programming belongs to the family of evolutionary algorithms and is closely related to genetic algorithms and genetic programming. From genetic algorithms it inherited the linear chromosomes of fixed length; and from genetic programming it inherited the expressive parse trees of varied sizes and shapes.\n\nIn gene expression programming the linear chromosomes work as the genotype and the parse trees as the phenotype, creating a genotype/phenotype system. This genotype/phenotype system is multigenic, thus encoding multiple parse trees in each chromosome. This means that the computer programs created by GEP are composed of multiple parse trees. Because these parse trees are the result of gene expression, in GEP they are called expression trees.\n\nThe genome of gene expression programming consists of a linear, symbolic string or chromosome of fixed length composed of one or more genes of equal size. These genes, despite their fixed length, code for expression trees of different sizes and shapes. An example of a chromosome with two genes, each of size 9, is the string (position zero indicates the start of each gene):\n\nwhere “L” represents the natural logarithm function and “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d” represent the variables and constants used in a problem.\n\nAs shown , the genes of gene expression programming have all the same size. However, these fixed length strings code for expression trees of different sizes. This means that the size of the coding regions varies from gene to gene, allowing for adaptation and evolution to occur smoothly.\n\nFor example, the mathematical expression:\ncan also be represented as an expression tree:\n\nwhere \"Q” represents the square root function.\n\nThis kind of expression tree consists of the phenotypic expression of GEP genes, whereas the genes are linear strings encoding these complex structures. For this particular example, the linear string corresponds to:\n\nwhich is the straightforward reading of the expression tree from top to bottom and from left to right. These linear strings are called k-expressions (from Karva notation).\n\nGoing from k-expressions to expression trees is also very simple. For example, the following k-expression:\n\nis composed of two different terminals (the variables “a” and “b”), two different functions of two arguments (“*” and “+”), and a function of one argument (“Q”). Its expression gives:\n\nThe k-expressions of gene expression programming correspond to the region of genes that gets expressed. This means that there might be sequences in the genes that are not expressed, which is indeed true for most genes. The reason for these noncoding regions is to provide a buffer of terminals so that all k-expressions encoded in GEP genes correspond always to valid programs or expressions.\n\nThe genes of gene expression programming are therefore composed of two different domains – a head and a tail – each with different properties and functions. The head is used mainly to encode the functions and variables chosen to solve the problem at hand, whereas the tail, while also used to encode the variables, provides essentially a reservoir of terminals to ensure that all programs are error-free.\n\nFor GEP genes the length of the tail is given by the formula:\n\nwhere \"h\" is the head’s length and \"n\" is maximum arity. For example, for a gene created using the set of functions F = {Q, +, −, *, /} and the set of terminals T = {a, b}, \"n\" = 2. And if we choose a head length of 15, then \"t\" = 15 (2–1) + 1 = 16, which gives a gene length \"g\" of 15 + 16 = 31. The randomly generated string below is an example of one such gene:\n\nIt encodes the expression tree:\n\nwhich, in this case, only uses 8 of the 31 elements that constitute the gene.\n\nIt's not hard to see that, despite their fixed length, each gene has the potential to code for expression trees of different sizes and shapes, with the simplest composed of only one node (when the first element of a gene is a terminal) and the largest composed of as many nodes as there are elements in the gene (when all the elements in the head are functions with maximum arity).\n\nIt's also not hard to see that it is trivial to implement all kinds of genetic modification (mutation, inversion, insertion, recombination, and so on) with the guarantee that all resulting offspring encode correct, error-free programs.\n\nThe chromosomes of gene expression programming are usually composed of more than one gene of equal length. Each gene codes for a sub-expression tree (sub-ET) or sub-program. Then the sub-ETs can interact with one another in different ways, forming a more complex program. The figure shows an example of a program composed of three sub-ETs.\n\nIn the final program the sub-ETs could be linked by addition or some other function, as there are no restrictions to the kind of linking function one might choose. Some examples of more complex linkers include taking the average, the median, the midrange, thresholding their sum to make a binomial classification, applying the sigmoid function to compute a probability, and so on. These linking functions are usually chosen a priori for each problem, but they can also be evolved elegantly and efficiently by the cellular system of gene expression programming.\n\nIn gene expression programming, homeotic genes control the interactions of the different sub-ETs or modules of the main program. The expression of such genes results in different main programs or cells, that is, they determine which genes are expressed in each cell and how the sub-ETs of each cell interact with one another. In other words, homeotic genes determine which sub-ETs are called upon and how often in which main program or cell and what kind of connections they establish with one another.\n\nHomeotic genes have exactly the same kind of structural organization as normal genes and they are built using an identical process. They also contain a head domain and a tail domain, with the difference that the heads contain now linking functions and a special kind of terminals – genic terminals – that represent the normal genes. The expression of the normal genes results as usual in different sub-ETs, which in the cellular system are called ADFs (automatically defined functions). As for the tails, they contain only genic terminals, that is, derived features generated on the fly by the algorithm.\n\nFor example, the chromosome in the figure has three normal genes and one homeotic gene and encodes a main program that invokes three different functions a total of four times, linking them in a particular way.\n\nFrom this example it is clear that the cellular system not only allows the unconstrained evolution of linking functions but also code reuse. And it shouldn't be hard to implement recursion in this system.\n\nMulticellular systems are composed of more than one homeotic gene. Each homeotic gene in this system puts together a different combination of sub-expression trees or ADFs, creating multiple cells or main programs.\n\nFor example, the program shown in the figure was created using a cellular system with two cells and three normal genes.\n\nThe applications of these multicellular systems are multiple and varied and, like the multigenic systems, they can be used both in problems with just one output and in problems with multiple outputs.\n\nThe head/tail domain of GEP genes (both normal and homeotic) is the basic building block of all GEP algorithms. However, gene expression programming also explores other chromosomal organizations that are more complex than the head/tail structure. Essentially these complex structures consist of functional units or genes with a basic head/tail domain plus one or more extra domains. These extra domains usually encode random numerical constants that the algorithm relentlessly fine-tunes in order to find a good solution. For instance, these numerical constants may be the weights or factors in a function approximation problem (see the GEP-RNC algorithm below); they may be the weights and thresholds of a neural network (see the GEP-NN algorithm below); the numerical constants needed for the design of decision trees (see the GEP-DT algorithm below); the weights needed for polynomial induction; or the random numerical constants used to discover the parameter values in a parameter optimization task.\n\nThe fundamental steps of the basic gene expression algorithm are listed below in pseudocode:\nThe first four steps prepare all the ingredients that are needed for the iterative loop of the algorithm (steps 5 through 10). Of these preparative steps, the crucial one is the creation of the initial population, which is created randomly using the elements of the function and terminal sets.\n\nLike all evolutionary algorithms, gene expression programming works with populations of individuals, which in this case are computer programs. Therefore, some kind of initial population must be created to get things started. Subsequent populations are descendants, via selection and genetic modification, of the initial population.\n\nIn the genotype/phenotype system of gene expression programming, it is only necessary to create the simple linear chromosomes of the individuals without worrying about the structural soundness of the programs they code for, as their expression always results in syntactically correct programs.\n\nFitness functions and selection environments (called training datasets in machine learning) are the two facets of fitness and are therefore intricately connected. Indeed, the fitness of a program depends not only on the cost function used to measure its performance but also on the training data chosen to evaluate fitness\n\nThe selection environment consists of the set of training records, which are also called fitness cases. These fitness cases could be a set of observations or measurements concerning some problem, and they form what is called the training dataset.\n\nThe quality of the training data is essential for the evolution of good solutions. A good training set should be representative of the problem at hand and also well-balanced, otherwise the algorithm might get stuck at some local optimum. In addition, it is also important to avoid using unnecessarily large datasets for training as this will slow things down unnecessarily. A good rule of thumb is to choose enough records for training to enable a good generalization in the validation data and leave the remaining records for validation and testing.\n\nBroadly speaking, there are essentially three different kinds of problems based on the kind of prediction being made:\nThe first type of problem goes by the name of regression; the second is known as classification, with logistic regression as a special case where, besides the crisp classifications like \"Yes\" or \"No\", a probability is also attached to each outcome; and the last one is related to Boolean algebra and logic synthesis.\n\nIn regression, the response or dependent variable is numeric (usually continuous) and therefore the output of a regression model is also continuous. So it's quite straightforward to evaluate the fitness of the evolving models by comparing the output of the model to the value of the response in the training data.\n\nThere are several basic fitness functions for evaluating model performance, with the most common being based on the error or residual between the model output and the actual value. Such functions include the mean squared error, root mean squared error, mean absolute error, relative squared error, root relative squared error, relative absolute error, and others.\n\nAll these standard measures offer a fine granularity or smoothness to the solution space and therefore work very well for most applications. But some problems might require a coarser evolution, such as determining if a prediction is within a certain interval, for instance less than 10% of the actual value. However, even if one is only interested in counting the hits (that is, a prediction that is within the chosen interval), making populations of models evolve based on just the number of hits each program scores is usually not very efficient due to the coarse granularity of the fitness landscape. Thus the solution usually involves combining these coarse measures with some kind of smooth function such as the standard error measures listed above.\n\nFitness functions based on the correlation coefficient and R-square are also very smooth. For regression problems, these functions work best by combining them with other measures because, by themselves, they only tend to measure correlation, not caring for the range of values of the model output. So by combining them with functions that work at approximating the range of the target values, they form very efficient fitness functions for finding models with good correlation and good fit between predicted and actual values.\n\nThe design of fitness functions for classification and logistic regression takes advantage of three different characteristics of classification models. The most obvious is just counting the hits, that is, if a record is classified correctly it is counted as a hit. This fitness function is very simple and works well for simple problems, but for more complex problems or datasets highly unbalanced it gives poor results.\n\nOne way to improve this type of hits-based fitness function consists of expanding the notion of correct and incorrect classifications. In a binary classification task, correct classifications can be 00 or 11. The \"00\" representation means that a negative case (represented by \"0”) was correctly classified, whereas the \"11\" means that a positive case (represented by \"1”) was correctly classified. Classifications of the type \"00\" are called true negatives (TN) and \"11\" true positives (TP).\n\nThere are also two types of incorrect classifications and they are represented by 01 and 10. They are called false positives (FP) when the actual value is 0 and the model predicts a 1; and false negatives (FN) when the target is 1 and the model predicts a 0. The counts of TP, TN, FP, and FN are usually kept on a table known as the confusion matrix.\n\nSo by counting the TP, TN, FP, and FN and further assigning different weights to these four types of classifications, it is possible to create smoother and therefore more efficient fitness functions. Some popular fitness functions based on the confusion matrix include sensitivity/specificity, recall/precision, F-measure, Jaccard similarity, Matthews correlation coefficient, and cost/gain matrix which combines the costs and gains assigned to the 4 different types of classifications.\n\nThese functions based on the confusion matrix are quite sophisticated and are adequate to solve most problems efficiently. But there is another dimension to classification models which is key to exploring more efficiently the solution space and therefore results in the discovery of better classifiers. This new dimension involves exploring the structure of the model itself, which includes not only the domain and range, but also the distribution of the model output and the classifier margin.\n\nBy exploring this other dimension of classification models and then combining the information about the model with the confusion matrix, it is possible to design very sophisticated fitness functions that allow the smooth exploration of the solution space. For instance, one can combine some measure based on the confusion matrix with the mean squared error evaluated between the raw model outputs and the actual values. Or combine the F-measure with the R-square evaluated for the raw model output and the target; or the cost/gain matrix with the correlation coefficient, and so on. More exotic fitness functions that explore model granularity include the area under the ROC curve and rank measure.\n\nAlso related to this new dimension of classification models, is the idea of assigning probabilities to the model output, which is what is done in logistic regression. Then it is also possible to use these probabilities and evaluate the mean squared error (or some other similar measure) between the probabilities and the actual values, then combine this with the confusion matrix to create very efficient fitness functions for logistic regression. Popular examples of fitness functions based on the probabilities include maximum likelihood estimation and hinge loss.\n\nIn logic there is no model structure (as defined above for classification and logistic regression) to explore: the domain and range of logical functions comprises only 0’s and 1’s or false and true. So, the fitness functions available for Boolean algebra can only be based on the hits or on the confusion matrix as explained in the section above.\n\nRoulette-wheel selection is perhaps the most popular selection scheme used in evolutionary computation. It involves mapping the fitness of each program to a slice of the roulette wheel proportional to its fitness. Then the roulette is spun as many times as there are programs in the population in order to keep the population size constant. So, with roulette-wheel selection programs are selected both according to fitness and the luck of the draw, which means that some times the best traits might be lost. However, by combining roulette-wheel selection with the cloning of the best program of each generation, one guarantees that at least the very best traits are not lost. This technique of cloning the best-of-generation program is known as simple elitism and is used by most stochastic selection schemes.\n\nThe reproduction of programs involves first the selection and then the reproduction of their genomes. Genome modification is not required for reproduction, but without it adaptation and evolution won't take place.\n\nThe selection operator selects the programs for the replication operator to copy. Depending on the selection scheme, the number of copies one program originates may vary, with some programs getting copied more than once while others are copied just once or not at all. In addition, selection is usually set up so that the population size remains constant from one generation to another.\n\nThe replication of genomes in nature is very complex and it took scientists a long time to discover the DNA double helix and propose a mechanism for its replication. But the replication of strings is trivial in artificial evolutionary systems, where only an instruction to copy strings is required to pass all the information in the genome from generation to generation.\n\nThe replication of the selected programs is a fundamental piece of all artificial evolutionary systems, but for evolution to occur it needs to be implemented not with the usual precision of a copy instruction, but rather with a few errors thrown in. Indeed, genetic diversity is created with genetic operators such as mutation, recombination, transposition, inversion, and many others.\n\nIn gene expression programming mutation is the most important genetic operator. It changes genomes by changing an element by another. The accumulation of many small changes over time can create great diversity.\n\nIn gene expression programming mutation is totally unconstrained, which means that in each gene domain any domain symbol can be replaced by another. For example, in the heads of genes any function can be replaced by a terminal or another function, regardless of the number of arguments in this new function; and a terminal can be replaced by a function or another terminal.\n\nRecombination usually involves two parent chromosomes to create two new chromosomes by combining different parts from the parent chromosomes. And as long as the parent chromosomes are aligned and the exchanged fragments are homologous (that is, occupy the same position in the chromosome), the new chromosomes created by recombination will always encode syntactically correct programs.\n\nDifferent kinds of crossover are easily implemented either by changing the number of parents involved (there's no reason for choosing only two); the number of split points; or the way one chooses to exchange the fragments, for example, either randomly or in some orderly fashion. For example, gene recombination, which is a special case of recombination, can be done by exchanging homologous genes (genes that occupy the same position in the chromosome) or by exchanging genes chosen at random from any position in the chromosome.\n\nTransposition involves the introduction of an insertion sequence somewhere in a chromosome. In gene expression programming insertion sequences might appear anywhere in the chromosome, but they are only inserted in the heads of genes. This method guarantees that even insertion sequences from the tails result in error-free programs.\n\nFor transposition to work properly, it must preserve chromosome length and gene structure. So, in gene expression programming transposition can be implemented using two different methods: the first creates a shift at the insertion site, followed by a deletion at the end of the head; the second overwrites the local sequence at the target site and therefore is easier to implement. Both methods can be implemented to operate between chromosomes or within a chromosome or even within a single gene.\n\nInversion is an interesting operator, especially powerful for combinatorial optimization. It consists of inverting a small sequence within a chromosome.\n\nIn gene expression programming it can be easily implemented in all gene domains and, in all cases, the offspring produced is always syntactically correct. For any gene domain, a sequence (ranging from at least two elements to as big as the domain itself) is chosen at random within that domain and then inverted.\n\nSeveral other genetic operators exist and in gene expression programming, with its different genes and gene domains, the possibilities are endless. For example, genetic operators such as one-point recombination, two-point recombination, gene recombination, uniform recombination, gene transposition, root transposition, domain-specific mutation, domain-specific inversion, domain-specific transposition, and so on, are easily implemented and widely used.\n\nNumerical constants are essential elements of mathematical and statistical models and therefore it is important to allow their integration in the models designed by evolutionary algorithms.\n\nGene expression programming solves this problem very elegantly through the use of an extra gene domain – the Dc – for handling random numerical constants (RNC). By combining this domain with a special terminal placeholder for the RNCs, a richly expressive system can be created.\n\nStructurally, the Dc comes after the tail, has a length equal to the size of the tail \"t\", and is composed of the symbols used to represent the RNCs.\n\nFor example, below is shown a simple chromosome composed of only one gene a head size of 7 (the Dc stretches over positions 15–22):\n\nwhere the terminal \"?” represents the placeholder for the RNCs. This kind of chromosome is expressed exactly as shown , giving:\n\nThen the ?'s in the expression tree are replaced from left to right and from top to bottom by the symbols (for simplicity represented by numerals) in the Dc, giving:\n\nThe values corresponding to these symbols are kept in an array. (For simplicity, the number represented by the numeral indicates the order in the array.) For instance, for the following 10 element array of RNCs:\n\nthe expression tree above gives:\n\nThis elegant structure for handling random numerical constants is at the heart of different GEP systems, such as GEP neural networks and GEP decision trees.\n\nLike the basic gene expression algorithm, the GEP-RNC algorithm is also multigenic and its chromosomes are decoded as usual by expressing one gene after another and then linking them all together by the same kind of linking process.\n\nThe genetic operators used in the GEP-RNC system are an extension to the genetic operators of the basic GEP algorithm (see above), and they all can be straightforwardly implemented in these new chromosomes. On the other hand, the basic operators of mutation, inversion, transposition, and recombination are also used in the GEP-RNC algorithm. Furthermore, special Dc-specific operators such as mutation, inversion, and transposition, are also used to aid in a more efficient circulation of the RNCs among individual programs. In addition, there is also a special mutation operator that allows the permanent introduction of variation in the set of RNCs. The initial set of RNCs is randomly created at the beginning of a run, which means that, for each gene in the initial population, a specified number of numerical constants, chosen from a certain range, are randomly generated. Then their circulation and mutation is enabled by the genetic operators.\n\nAn artificial neural network (ANN or NN) is a computational device that consists of many simple connected units or neurons. The connections between the units are usually weighted by real-valued weights. These weights are the primary means of learning in neural networks and a learning algorithm is usually used to adjust them.\n\nStructurally, a neural network has three different classes of units: input units, hidden units, and output units. An activation pattern is presented at the input units and then spreads in a forward direction from the input units through one or more layers of hidden units to the output units. The activation coming into one unit from other unit is multiplied by the weights on the links over which it spreads. All incoming activation is then added together and the unit becomes activated only if the incoming result is above the unit’s threshold.\n\nIn summary, the basic components of a neural network are the units, the connections between the units, the weights, and the thresholds. So, in order to fully simulate an artificial neural network one must somehow encode these components in a linear chromosome and then be able to express them in a meaningful way.\n\nIn GEP neural networks (GEP-NN or GEP nets), the network architecture is encoded in the usual structure of a head/tail domain. The head contains special functions/neurons that activate the hidden and output units (in the GEP context, all these units are more appropriately called functional units) and terminals that represent the input units. The tail, as usual, contains only terminals/input units.\n\nBesides the head and the tail, these neural network genes contain two additional domains, Dw and Dt, for encoding the weights and thresholds of the neural network. Structurally, the Dw comes after the tail and its length \"d\" depends on the head size \"h\" and maximum arity \"n\" and is evaluated by the formula:\n\nThe Dt comes after Dw and has a length \"d\" equal to \"t\". Both domains are composed of symbols representing the weights and thresholds of the neural network.\n\nFor each NN-gene, the weights and thresholds are created at the beginning of each run, but their circulation and adaptation are guaranteed by the usual genetic operators of mutation, transposition, inversion, and recombination. In addition, special operators are also used to allow a constant flow of genetic variation in the set of weights and thresholds.\n\nFor example, below is shown a neural network with two input units (\"i\" and \"i\"), two hidden units (\"h\" and \"h\"), and one output unit (\"o\"). It has a total of six connections with six corresponding weights represented by the numerals 1–6 (for simplicity, the thresholds are all equal to 1 and are omitted):\n\nThis representation is the canonical neural network representation, but neural networks can also be represented by a tree, which, in this case, corresponds to:\n\nwhere \"a” and \"b” represent the two inputs \"i\" and \"i\" and \"D” represents a function with connectivity two. This function adds all its weighted arguments and then thresholds this activation in order to determine the forwarded output. This output (zero or one in this simple case) depends on the threshold of each unit, that is, if the total incoming activation is equal to or greater than the threshold, then the output is one, zero otherwise.\n\nThe above NN-tree can be linearized as follows:\n\nwhere the structure in positions 7–12 (Dw) encodes the weights. The values of each weight are kept in an array and retrieved as necessary for expression.\n\nAs a more concrete example, below is shown a neural net gene for the exclusive-or problem. It has a head size of 3 and Dw size of 6:\n\nIts expression results in the following neural network:\n\nwhich, for the set of weights:\n\nit gives:\n\nwhich is a perfect solution to the exclusive-or function.\n\nBesides simple Boolean functions with binary inputs and binary outputs, the GEP-nets algorithm can handle all kinds of functions or neurons (linear neuron, tanh neuron, atan neuron, logistic neuron, limit neuron, radial basis and triangular basis neurons, all kinds of step neurons, and so on). Also interesting is that the GEP-nets algorithm can use all these neurons together and let evolution decide which ones work best to solve the problem at hand. So, GEP-nets can be used not only in Boolean problems but also in logistic regression, classification, and regression. In all cases, GEP-nets can be implemented not only with multigenic systems but also cellular systems, both unicellular and multicellular. Furthermore, multinomial classification problems can also be tackled in one go by GEP-nets both with multigenic systems and multicellular systems.\n\nDecision trees (DT) are classification models where a series of questions and answers are mapped using nodes and directed edges.\n\nDecision trees have three types of nodes: a root node, internal nodes, and leaf or terminal nodes. The root node and all internal nodes represent test conditions for different attributes or variables in a dataset. Leaf nodes specify the class label for all different paths in the tree.\n\nMost decision tree induction algorithms involve selecting an attribute for the root node and then make the same kind of informed decision about all the nodes in a tree.\n\nDecision trees can also be created by gene expression programming, with the advantage that all the decisions concerning the growth of the tree are made by the algorithm itself without any kind of human input.\n\nThere are basically two different types of DT algorithms: one for inducing decision trees with only nominal attributes and another for inducing decision trees with both numeric and nominal attributes. This aspect of decision tree induction also carries to gene expression programming and there are two GEP algorithms for decision tree induction: the evolvable decision trees (EDT) algorithm for dealing exclusively with nominal attributes and the EDT-RNC (EDT with random numerical constants) for handling both nominal and numeric attributes.\n\nIn the decision trees induced by gene expression programming, the attributes behave as function nodes in the basic gene expression algorithm, whereas the class labels behave as terminals. This means that attribute nodes have also associated with them a specific arity or number of branches that will determine their growth and, ultimately, the growth of the tree. Class labels behave like terminals, which means that for a \"k\"-class classification task, a terminal set with \"k\" terminals is used, representing the \"k\" different classes.\n\nThe rules for encoding a decision tree in a linear genome are very similar to the rules used to encode mathematical expressions (see above). So, for decision tree induction the genes also have a head and a tail, with the head containing attributes and terminals and the tail containing only terminals. This again ensures that all decision trees designed by GEP are always valid programs. Furthermore, the size of the tail \"t\" is also dictated by the head size \"h\" and the number of branches of the attribute with more branches \"n\" and is evaluated by the equation:\n\nFor example, consider the decision tree below to decide whether to play outside:\n\nIt can be linearly encoded as:\n\nwhere “H” represents the attribute Humidity, “O” the attribute Outlook, “W” represents Windy, and “a” and “b” the class labels \"Yes\" and \"No\" respectively. Note that the edges connecting the nodes are properties of the data, specifying the type and number of branches of each attribute, and therefore don’t have to be encoded.\n\nThe process of decision tree induction with gene expression programming starts, as usual, with an initial population of randomly created chromosomes. Then the chromosomes are expressed as decision trees and their fitness evaluated against a training dataset. According to fitness they are then selected to reproduce with modification. The genetic operators are exactly the same that are used in a conventional unigenic system, for example, mutation, inversion, transposition, and recombination.\n\nDecision trees with both nominal and numeric attributes are also easily induced with gene expression programming using the framework described above for dealing with random numerical constants. The chromosomal architecture includes an extra domain for encoding random numerical constants, which are used as thresholds for splitting the data at each branching node. For example, the gene below with a head size of 5 (the Dc starts at position 16):\n\nencodes the decision tree shown below:\n\nIn this system, every node in the head, irrespective of its type (numeric attribute, nominal attribute, or terminal), has associated with it a random numerical constant, which for simplicity in the example above is represented by a numeral 0–9. These random numerical constants are encoded in the Dc domain and their expression follows a very simple scheme: from top to bottom and from left to right, the elements in Dc are assigned one-by-one to the elements in the decision tree. So, for the following array of RNCs:\n\nthe decision tree above results in:\n\nwhich can also be represented more colorfully as a conventional decision tree:\n\nGEP has been criticized for not being a major improvement over other genetic programming techniques. In many experiments, it did not perform better than existing methods.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45985", "title": "George Michael", "text": "George Michael\n\nGeorge Michael (born Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou, 25 June 1963 – 25 December 2016) was an English singer, songwriter, record producer, and philanthropist who rose to fame as a member of the music duo Wham! and later embarked on a solo career. He was widely known for his work in the 1980s and 1990s, including hit Wham! singles such as \"Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go\" and \"Last Christmas\" and solo albums such as \"Faith\" (1987) and \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" (1990).\n\nMichael achieved seven number one singles in the UK and eight number one songs on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the US, including \"Careless Whisper\" and \"Praying for Time\". He ranks among the best-selling British acts of all time, and in 2008, Michael was ranked 40th on \"Billboard\"s list of the Greatest Hot 100 Artists of All Time. Michael won various music awards throughout his 30-year career, including three Brit Awards, four MTV Video Music Awards, six Ivor Novello Awards, three American Music Awards, and two Grammy Awards from eight nominations. Michael, who came out as gay in 1998, was an active LGBT rights campaigner and HIV/AIDS charity fundraiser.\n\nIn 2004, the Radio Academy named Michael the most played artist on British radio during the period 1984–2004. The 2005 documentary \"A Different Story\" covered his career and personal life. Michael's first tour in 15 years, the 25 Live tour, spanned three tours over the course of three years (2006, 2007, and 2008). He performed his final concert at London's Earls Court on 17 October 2012.\n\nIn the early hours of 25 December 2016, Michael, aged 53, was found dead at his Oxfordshire home. A coroner's report attributed his death to natural causes.\n\nGeorge Michael was born Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou in East Finchley, London on 25 June 1963. His father, Kyriacos Panayiotou (nicknamed \"Jack\"), was a Greek Cypriot restaurateur who emigrated to England in the 1950s. His mother, Lesley Angold (\"née\" Harrison), was an English dancer. In June 2008, Michael told the \"Los Angeles Times\" that his maternal grandmother was Jewish, but she married a non-Jewish man and raised her children with no knowledge of their Jewish background due to her fear during World War II. Michael spent most of his childhood in Kingsbury, London, in the home his parents bought soon after his birth; he attended Roe Green Junior School and Kingsbury High School. His older sisters are Yioda and Melanie.\n\nWhile he was in his early teens, the family moved to Radlett. There, Michael attended Bushey Meads School in Bushey, where he befriended his future Wham! partner Andrew Ridgeley. The two had the same career ambition of being musicians. Michael busked on the London Underground, performing songs such as \"'39\" by Queen. His involvement in the music business began with his working as a DJ, playing at clubs and local schools around Bushey, Stanmore, and Watford. This was followed by the formation of a short-lived ska band called The Executive, with Ridgeley, Ridgeley's brother Paul, Andrew Leaver, and David Mortimer (later known as David Austin).\n\nMichael formed the duo Wham! with Andrew Ridgeley in 1981. The band's first album \"Fantastic\" reached No. 1 in the UK in 1983 and produced a series of top 10 singles including \"Young Guns\", \"Wham Rap!\" and \"Club Tropicana\". Their second album, \"Make It Big\", reached No. 1 on the charts in the US. Singles from that album included \"Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go\" (No. 1 in the UK and US), \"Freedom\", \"Everything She Wants\", and \"Careless Whisper\" which reached No. 1 in nearly 25 countries, including the UK and US, and was Michael's first solo effort as a single. In 1985 Michael received the first of his three Ivor Novello Awards for Songwriter of the Year from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors.\n\nMichael sang on the original Band Aid recording of \"Do They Know It's Christmas?\" (which became the UK Christmas number one) and donated the profits from \"Last Christmas\" and \"Everything She Wants\" to charity. Michael sang \"Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me\" with Elton John at Live Aid at Wembley Stadium in London on 13 July 1985. He also contributed background vocals to David Cassidy's 1985 hit \"The Last Kiss\", as well as Elton John's 1985 successes \"Nikita\" and \"Wrap Her Up\". Michael cited Cassidy as a major career influence and interviewed Cassidy for David Litchfield's \"Ritz Newspaper\".\nWham!'s tour of China in April 1985, the first visit to China by a Western popular music act, generated worldwide media coverage, much of it centred on Michael. Before Wham!'s appearance in China, many kinds of music in the country were forbidden. The band's manager, Simon Napier-Bell, had spent 18 months trying to convince Chinese officials to let the duo play. The audience included members of the Chinese government, and Chinese television presenter, Kan Lijun, who was the on stage host, spoke of Wham!'s historic performance; The tour was documented by film director Lindsay Anderson and producer Martin Lewis in their film \"Foreign Skies: Wham! In China\". With the success of Michael's solo singles, \"Careless Whisper\" (1984) and \"A Different Corner\" (1986), rumours of an impending break up of Wham! intensified. The duo officially separated in 1986, after releasing a farewell single, \"The Edge of Heaven\" and a singles compilation, \"The Final\", plus a sell-out concert at Wembley Stadium that included the world premiere of the China film. The Wham! partnership ended officially with the commercially successful single \"The Edge of Heaven\", which reached No. 1 on the UK chart in June 1986.\n\nThe beginning of his solo career, during early 1987, was a duet with Aretha Franklin. \"I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me)\" was a one-off project that helped Michael achieve an ambition by singing with one of his favourite artists. It scored number one on both the UK Singles Chart and the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 upon its release. For Michael, it became his third consecutive solo number one in the UK from three releases, after 1984's \"Careless Whisper\" (though the single was actually from the Wham! album \"Make It Big\") and 1986's \"A Different Corner\". The single was also the first Michael had recorded as a solo artist which he had not written himself. The co-writer, Simon Climie, was unknown at the time; he later had success as a performer with the band Climie Fisher in 1988. Michael and Aretha Franklin won a Grammy Award in 1988 for Best R&B Performance – Duo or Group with Vocal for the song.\n\nIn late 1987, Michael released his debut solo album, \"Faith\". The first single released from the album was \"I Want Your Sex\", in mid-1987. The song was banned by many radio stations in the UK and US, due to its sexually suggestive lyrics. MTV broadcast the video, featuring celebrity make-up artist Kathy Jeung in a basque and suspenders, only during the late night hours. Michael argued that the act was beautiful if the sex was monogamous, and he recorded a brief prologue for the video in which he said: \"This song is not about casual sex.\" One of the racier scenes involved Michael writing the words \"explore monogamy\" on his partner's back in lipstick. Some radio stations played a toned-down version of the song, \"I Want Your Love\", with the word \"love\" replacing \"sex\".<ref name=\"sex/love\">80s Singers: George Michael Total 80s Remix, 22 February 1999. Retrieved 21 April 2011.</ref>\n\nWhen \"I Want Your Sex\" reached the US charts, \"American Top 40\" host Casey Kasem refused to say the song's title, referring to it only as \"the new single by George Michael.\" In the US, the song was also sometimes listed as \"I Want Your Sex (from \"Beverly Hills Cop II\")\", since the song was featured on the soundtrack of the movie. Despite censorship and radio play problems, \"I Want Your Sex\" reached No. 2 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and No. 3 in the UK. The second single, \"Faith\", was released in October 1987, a few weeks before the album. \"Faith\" became one of his most popular songs. The song was No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the US for four consecutive weeks. It also reached No. 2 in the UK Singles Chart. The video provided some definitive images of the 1980s music industry in the process—Michael in shades, leather jacket, cowboy boots, and Levi's jeans, playing a guitar near a classic-design jukebox.\n\nOn 30 October, \"Faith\" was released in the UK and in several markets worldwide. \"Faith\" topped the UK Albums Chart, and in the US, the album had 51 non-consecutive weeks in the top 10 of \"Billboard\" 200, including 12 weeks at No. 1. \"Faith\" had many successes, with four singles (\"Faith\", \"Father Figure\", \"One More Try\", and \"Monkey\") reaching No. 1 in the US. \"Faith\" was certified Diamond by the RIAA for sales of 10 million copies in the US. To date, global sales of \"Faith\" are more than 25 million units. The album was highly acclaimed by music critics, with AllMusic journalist Steve Huey describing it as a \"superbly crafted mainstream pop/rock masterpiece\" and \"one of the finest pop albums of the '80s\". In a review by \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, journalist Mark Coleman commended most of the songs on the album, which he said \"displays Michael's intuitive understanding of pop music and his increasingly intelligent use of his power to communicate to an ever-growing audience.\"\n\nIn 1988, Michael embarked on a world tour. In Los Angeles, Michael was joined on stage by Aretha Franklin for \"I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me)\". It was the second highest grossing event of 1988, earning $17.7 million. In February 1989, \"Faith\" won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year at the 31st Grammy Awards. At the 1989 MTV Video Music Awards on 6 September in Los Angeles, Michael received the Video Vanguard Award. According to Michael in his film, \"A Different Story\", success did not make him happy and he started to think there was something wrong in being an idol for millions of teenage girls. The whole \"Faith\" process (promotion, videos, tour, awards) left him exhausted, lonely and frustrated, and far from his friends and family. In 1990, he told his record company Sony that, for his second album, he did not want to do promotions like the one for \"Faith\".\n\n\"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" was released in September 1990. For this album, Michael tried to create a new reputation as a serious-minded artist; the title is an indication of his desire to be taken more seriously as a songwriter. Michael refused to do any promotion for this album, including no music videos for the singles released. The first single, \"Praying for Time\", with lyrics concerning social ills and injustice, was released in August 1990. James Hunter of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine described the song as \"a distraught look at the world's astounding woundedness. Michael offers the healing passage of time as the only balm for physical and emotional hunger, poverty, hypocrisy and hatred.\" The song was an instant success, reaching No. 1 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and No. 6 in the UK. A video was released shortly thereafter, consisting of the lyrics on a dark background. Michael did not appear in this video or any subsequent videos for the album.\n\nThe second single \"Waiting for That Day\" was an acoustic-heavy single, released as an immediate follow-up to \"Praying for Time\". It reached No. 23 in the UK and No. 27 in the US. in October 1990. The album was released in Europe on 3 September 1990, and one week later in the US. It reached No. 1 in the UK Albums Chart and peaked at No. 2 on the US \"Billboard\" 200. It spent a total of 88 weeks on the UK Albums Chart and was certified four-times Platinum by the BPI. The album produced five UK singles, which were released quickly, within an eight-month period: \"Praying for Time\", \"Waiting for That Day\", \"Freedom! '90\", \"Heal the Pain\", and \"Cowboys and Angels\" (the latter being his only single not to chart in the UK top 40).\n\n\"Freedom '90\" was the second of only two of its singles to be supported by a music video (the other being the Michael-less \"Praying for Time\"). The song alludes to his struggles with his artistic identity, and prophesied his efforts shortly thereafter to end his recording contract with Sony Music. As if to prove the song's sentiment, Michael refused to appear in the video (directed by David Fincher), and instead recruited supermodels Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista, Christy Turlington, Tatjana Patitz, and Cindy Crawford to appear in and lip sync in his stead. It also featured lyrics critical of his sex symbol status. It reached No. 8 success on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the US, and No. 28 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\n\"Mother's Pride\" gained significant radio play in the US during the first Persian Gulf War during 1991, often with radio stations mixing in callers' tributes to soldiers with the music. It reached No. 46 on \"Billboard\" Hot 100 with only airplay. In the end, \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" sold approximately 8 million copies.\n\nAt the 1991 Brit Awards, \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" won the award for Best British Album. Later in 1991, Michael embarked on the Cover to Cover tour in Japan, England, the US, and Brazil, where he performed at Rock in Rio. In the audience in Rio, he saw and later met Anselmo Feleppa, who later became his partner. The tour was not a proper promotion for \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\". Rather, it was more about Michael singing his favourite cover songs. Among his favourites was \"Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me\", a 1974 song by Elton John; Michael and John had performed the song together at the Live Aid concert in 1985, and again for Michael's concert at London's Wembley Arena on 25 March 1991, where the duet was recorded. The single was released at the end of 1991 and reached No. 1 in both the UK and US. In 1991, Michael released an autobiography through Penguin Books titled \"Bare\", co-written with Tony Parsons.\n\nAn expected follow-up album, \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 2\", was scrapped due to Michael's lawsuit with Sony. Michael complained that Sony had not completely supported the release of his second album, resulting in its poor performance in the US as compared to \"Faith\". Sony responded that Michael's refusal to appear in promotional videos had caused the bad response. Michael ended the idea for \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 2\" and donated three songs to the charity project \"Red Hot + Dance\", for the Red Hot Organization which raised money for AIDS awareness; a fourth track \"Crazyman Dance\" was the B-side of 1992's \"Too Funky\". Michael donated the royalties from \"Too Funky\" to the same cause.\n\n\"Too Funky\" reached No. 4 on the UK Singles Chart and No. 10 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It did not appear on any George Michael studio album, but was included on his solo collections \"\" in 1998 and \"Twenty Five\" in 2006. The video featured Michael (sporadically) as a director filming supermodels Linda Evangelista, Beverly Peele, Tyra Banks, Estelle Lefébure and Nadja Auermann at a fashion show.\nMichael performed at The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert on 20 April 1992 at London's Wembley Stadium. The concert was a tribute to the life of the late Queen frontman, Freddie Mercury, with the proceeds going to AIDS research. In his last ever radio interview Mercury had praised Michael, adding that he loved his track \"Faith\". Michael performed \"'39\", \"These Are the Days of Our Lives\" with Lisa Stansfield and \"Somebody to Love\". The performance of the latter was released on the \"Five Live\" EP.\n\n\"Five Live\", released in 1993 for Parlophone in the UK and Hollywood Records in the US, features five live recordings (six in several countries) performed by Michael, Queen, and Lisa Stansfield. \"Somebody to Love\" and \"These Are the Days of Our Lives\" were recorded at the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert. \"Killer\", \"Papa Was a Rollin' Stone\", and \"Calling You\" were recorded during his Cover to Cover Tour from 1991. Michael's performance of \"Somebody to Love\" was hailed as \"one of the best performances of the tribute concert\". All proceeds from the sale of the EP benefited the Mercury Phoenix Trust. Sales of the EP were strong through Europe, where it debuted at No. 1 in the UK and several European countries. Chart success in the US was less spectacular, where it reached No. 40 on the \"Billboard\" 200 (\"Somebody to Love\" reached No. 30 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100).\n\nDuring November 1994, after a long period of seclusion, Michael appeared at the first MTV Europe Music Awards show, where he gave a performance of a new song, \"Jesus to a Child\". The song was a melancholy tribute to his lover, Anselmo Feleppa, who had died in March 1993. The song entered the UK Singles Chart at No. 1 and No. 7 on \"Billboard\" upon release in 1996. It was Michael's longest UK Top 40 single, at almost seven minutes long. The exact identity of the song's subject—and the nature of Michael's relationship with Feleppa—was shrouded in innuendo and speculation, as Michael had not confirmed he was homosexual and did not do so until 1998. The video for \"Jesus to a Child\" was a picture of images recalling loss, pain and suffering. Michael consistently dedicated the song to Feleppa before performing it live.\n\nThe second single, released in April 1996, was \"Fastlove\", an energetic tune about wanting gratification and fulfilment without commitment. The single version was nearly five minutes long. \"Fastlove\" was supported by a futuristic virtual reality-related video. It reached No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart, spending three weeks at the top spot. In the US, \"Fastlove\" peaked at No. 8, his most recent single to reach the top 10 in the US. Following \"Fastlove\", Michael released \"Older\", his first studio album in six years and only the third in his ten-year solo career. The album's US and Canadian release was the first album released by David Geffen's (now-defunct) DreamWorks Records.\n\n\"Older\" was particularly notable for the release of its six singles. Each of them reached the UK top 3, a record for the most singles in the British top 3 released from a single album. At the time of release of the album's fifth single, \"Star People '97\", chart specialist James Masterton noted Michael's success on the singles charts, writing: \"George Michael nonetheless makes an impressive Top 3 entry with this single. The \"Older\" album has now proved itself to be far and away his most commercially successful recording ever. Five singles now lifted and every single one has been a Top 3 hit. Compare this with the two Top 3 hits produced by \"Faith\" and \"Listen Without Prejudice's\" scant total of one Top Tenner and one single which missed the Top 40 altogether. This sustained single success has been achieved with a little help from marketing tricks such as remixes – or in this case a new recording of the album track which gives it a much-needed transformation into a deserved commercial smash.\"\n\nIn 1996, Michael was voted Best British Male, at the MTV Europe Music Awards and the Brit Awards; and at the British Academy's Ivor Novello Awards, he was awarded the title of Songwriter of the Year for the third time. Michael performed a concert at Three Mills Studios, London, for \"MTV Unplugged\". It was his first long performance in years, and in the audience was Michael's mother. She died of cancer the following year.\n\n\"Ladies & Gentlemen: The Best of George Michael\" was Michael's first solo greatest hits collection released in 1998. The collection of 28 songs (29 songs are included on the European and Australian release) are separated into two halves, with each containing a particular theme and mood. The first CD, titled \"For the Heart\", predominantly contains ballads; the second CD, \"For the Feet\", consists mainly of dance tunes. It was released through Sony Music Entertainment as a condition of severing contractual ties with the label.\n\n\"Ladies & Gentlemen\" was a success, peaking at No. 1 on the UK Albums Chart for eight weeks. It spent over 200 weeks in the UK chart, and is the 38th best-selling album of all time in the UK. It is certified seven-times platinum in the UK and multi-platinum in the US, and is Michael's most commercially successful album in his homeland, having sold more than 2.8 million copies. To date, the album has reached worldwide sales of approximately 15 million copies. The first single of the album, \"Outside\" was a humorous song making a reference to his arrest for soliciting a policeman in a public toilet. \"As\", his duet with Mary J. Blige, was released as the second single in many territories around the world. Both singles reached the top 5 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nReleased in 1999, \"Songs from the Last Century\" is a studio album of cover tracks. The album was Michael's penultimate album released through Virgin Records. To date, the album has achieved the lowest peak of his solo efforts. The album debuted at No. 157 on the American \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart, which was also the album's peak position. It was also his lowest-charting album in the UK, becoming his only solo effort not to reach No. 1. It peaked at No. 2 in the UK Albums Chart. Each of the 11 tracks was co-produced by Phil Ramone and Michael.\n\nIn 2000, Michael worked on the hit single \"If I Told You That\" with Whitney Houston, a song which was meant to feature Michael Jackson, initially. Michael co-produced on the single along with American producer Rodney Jerkins. Michael began working on what became his fifth studio album, spending two years in the recording studio. His first single \"Freeek!\", taken from the new album, was successful in Europe going to No. 1 in Italy, Portugal, Spain and Denmark in 2002 and reaching the top 10 in the UK and the top 5 in Australia. It made 22 charts around the world. However, his next single \"Shoot the Dog\" proved to be controversial when released in July 2002. It was acutely critical of US President George W. Bush and UK Prime Minister Tony Blair in the lead-up to the 2003 invasion of Iraq. It reached No. 1 in Denmark and made the top 5 in most European charts. However, it peaked at only No. 12 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nIn February 2003, Michael unexpectedly recorded another song in protest against the looming Iraq war, Don McLean's \"The Grave\". The original was written by McLean in 1971 and was a protest against the Vietnam War. Michael performed the song on numerous TV shows including \"Top of the Pops\" and \"So Graham Norton\". His performance of the song on \"Top of the Pops\" on 7 March 2003 was his first studio appearance on the programme since 1986. He ran into conflict with the show's producers for an anti-war, anti Blair T-shirt worn by some members of his band. In response, Don McLean issued a statement, through his website, praising Michael's recording: \"I am proud of George Michael for standing up for life and sanity. I am delighted that he chose a song of mine to express these feelings. We must remember that the Wizard is really a cowardly old man hiding behind a curtain with a loud microphone. It takes courage and a song to pull the curtain open and expose him. Good Luck George.\"\n\nOn 17 November 2003, Michael re-signed with Sony Music, the company he had left in 1995 after a legal battle. When Michael's fifth studio album, \"Patience\", was released in 2004, it was critically acclaimed and went to No. 1 on the UK Albums Chart, and became one of the fastest selling albums in the UK, selling over 200,000 copies in the first week alone. In Australia it reached No. 2 on 22 March. It reached the Top 5 on most European charts, and peaked at No. 12 in the US, selling over 500,000 copies to earn a Gold certification from the RIAA.\n\n\"Amazing\", the third single from the album, became a No. 1 hit in Europe. When Michael appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" on 26 May 2004, to promote the album, he performed \"Amazing\", along with his classic songs \"Father Figure\" and \"Faith\". On the show Michael spoke of his arrest, revealing his homosexuality, and his resumption of public performances. He allowed Oprah's crew inside his home outside London. The fourth single taken off the album was \"Flawless\", which used the sample of the Ones' original dance hit \"Flawless\". It was a dance hit in Europe as well as North America, reaching No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Play and became Michael's last No. 1 single on the US Dance chart.\n\nIn November 2004, Sony released the fifth single – \"Round Here\". It was the least successful single taken from \"Patience\" when it stalled the UK charts at No. 32. In 2005, \"John and Elvis Are Dead\" was released as the sixth and final single from the album; it was released as a download single and was therefore unable to chart in the UK. Michael told BBC Radio 1 on 10 March 2004 that future music that he puts out would be available for download, with fans encouraged to make a donation to charity.\n\"Twenty Five\" is Michael's second greatest hits album, celebrating the 25th anniversary of his music career. Released in November 2006 by Sony BMG, it debuted at no.1 in the UK. The album contains songs chiefly from Michael's solo career but also from his earlier days in Wham! It comes in two formats: two CDs or a limited edition three-CD set. The 2-CD set contained 26 tracks, including four recorded with Wham! and three new songs: \"An Easier Affair\"; \"This Is Not Real Love\" (a duet with Mutya Buena, formerly of Sugababes, which peaked at No.15 in the UK Charts); and a new version of \"Heal the Pain\" recorded with Paul McCartney. The limited edition three-CD version contains an additional 14 lesser known tracks, including one from Wham! and one new song, \"Understand\".\n\n\"Twenty Five\" was released in North America on 1 April 2008 as a 29-song, two-CD set featuring several new songs (including duets with Paul McCartney and Mary J. Blige and a song from the short-lived TV series\" Eli Stone\") in addition to many of Michael's successful songs from both his solo and Wham! career. To commemorate the \"Twenty Five\" album, Michael toured North America for the first time in 17 years, playing large venues in major cities including New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, St. Paul/Minneapolis, Tampa/St. Pete, Chicago and Dallas. The DVD version of \"Twenty Five\" contains 40 videos on two discs, including seven with Wham!\nDuring the 2005 Live 8 concert at Hyde Park, London, Michael joined Paul McCartney on stage, harmonising on The Beatles classic \"Drive My Car\". In 2006, Michael embarked on his first tour in 15 years, 25 Live. The tour began in Barcelona, Spain, on 23 September and finished in December at Wembley Arena in England. According to his website, the 80-show tour was seen by 1.3 million fans. On 12 May 2007 in Coimbra, Portugal, he began the European \"25 Live Stadium Tour 2007\", including London and Athens, and ending on 4 August 2007 in Belfast, Northern Ireland. There were 29 tour dates across Europe. On 9 June 2007 Michael became the first artist to perform live at the newly renovated Wembley Stadium in London, where he was later fined £130,000 for over-running the programme for 13 minutes.\n\nOn 25 March 2008, a third part of the 25 Live Tour was announced for North America. This part included 21 dates in the United States and Canada. This was Michael's first tour of North America in 17 years. Following news of Michael's North American tour, \"Twenty Five\" was released in North America on 1 April 2008 as a 29-song, 2-CD set featuring several new songs (including duets with Paul McCartney and Mary J. Blige and a song from the short-lived TV series, \"Eli Stone\") in addition to many of Michael's successful songs from both his solo and Wham! career.\n\nMichael made his American acting debut by playing a guardian angel to Jonny Lee Miller's character on \"Eli Stone\", a US TV series. In addition to performing on the show as himself and as \"visions\", each episode of the show's first season was named after a song of his. Michael appeared on the 2008 finale show of \"American Idol\" on 21 May singing \"Praying for Time\". When asked what he thought Simon Cowell would say of his performance, he replied \"I think he'll probably tell me I shouldn't have done a George Michael song. He's told plenty of people that in the past, so I think that'd be quite funny.\" On 1 December, Michael performed in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, as part of the 37th National Day Celebrations.\n\nOn 25 December 2008, Michael released a new track \"December Song\" on his website for free. It was hoped that fans who downloaded the song would donate money to charity. Though the song is not available any more on his website, it remains available on file sharing networks and a remastered version of \"December Song\" went on sale on 13 December. The popularity of the single was boosted by a promotional appearance that Michael made on \"The X Factor\".\n\nIn early 2010, Michael performed his first concerts in Australia since 1988. On 20 February 2010, Michael performed his first show in Perth at the Burswood Dome to an audience of 15,000. On 2 March 2011, Michael announced the release of his cover version of New Order's 1987 hit \"True Faith\" in aid of the UK charity telethon Comic Relief. Michael also appeared on Comic Relief itself, featuring in the first Carpool Karaoke sketch of James Corden, with the pair singing songs while Corden drove around London. On 15 April 2011, Michael released a cover of Stevie Wonder's 1972 song, \"You and I\", as an MP3 gift to Prince William and Catherine Middleton on the occasion of their wedding on 29 April 2011. Although the MP3 was released for free download, Michael appealed to those who downloaded the track to make a contribution to \"The Prince William & Miss Catherine Middleton Charitable Gift Fund\".\nThe Symphonica Tour began at the Prague State Opera House on 22 August 2011. In October 2011, Michael was announced as one of the final nominees for the Songwriter's Hall of Fame. In November, he had to cancel the remainder of the tour as he became ill with pneumonia in Vienna, Austria, ultimately slipping into a coma.\n\nIn February 2012, two months after leaving hospital, Michael made a surprise appearance at the 2012 Brit Awards at the O Arena in London, where he received a standing ovation, and presented Adele the award for Best British Album. In March, Michael announced that he was healthy and that the Symphonica Tour would resume in autumn. The final concert of the tour—which was also the final concert of Michael's life–was performed at London's Earls Court on 17 October 2012.\n\n\"Symphonica\" was released on 17 March 2014, and became Michael's seventh solo No. 1 album in the UK, and ninth overall including his Wham! chart-toppers. The album was produced by Phil Ramone and Michael; the album was Ramone's last production credit. On 2 November 2016, Michael's management team announced that a second documentary on his life, entitled \"Freedom\", was set to be released in March 2017. A month after, English songwriter Naughty Boy confirmed plans to collaborate with Michael, for a new song and album. Naughty Boy claimed that the song, currently untitled, is \"amazing but [...] bittersweet\". On 7 September 2017 (months after Michael's death), the single \"Fantasy\", featuring Nile Rodgers, was released.\n\nMichael stated that his early fantasies were about women, which \"led me to believe I was on the path to heterosexuality\", but at puberty he started to fantasise about men, which he later said \"had something to do with my environment\". At the age of 19, Michael told Andrew Ridgeley that he was bisexual. Michael also told one of his two sisters, but he was advised not to tell his parents about his sexuality. In a 1999 interview with \"The Advocate\", Michael told the Editor in Chief, Judy Wieder, that it was \"falling in love with a man that ended his conflict over bisexuality\".\n\"I never had a moral problem with being gay\", Michael told her. \"I thought I had fallen in love with a woman a couple of times. Then I fell in love with a man, and realised that none of those things had been love.\"\n\nIn 2004, Michael said, \"I used to sleep with women quite a lot in the Wham! days but never felt it could develop into a relationship because I knew that, emotionally, I was a gay man. I didn't want to commit to them but I was attracted to them. Then I became ashamed that I might be using them. I decided I had to stop, which I did when I began to worry about AIDS, which was becoming prevalent in Britain. Although I had always had safe sex, I didn't want to sleep with a woman without telling her I was bisexual. I felt that would be irresponsible. Basically, I didn't want to have that uncomfortable conversation that might ruin the moment, so I stopped sleeping with them.\" In the same interview, he added: \"If I wasn't with Kenny [his boyfriend at the time], I would have sex with women, no question\". He said he believed that the formation of his sexuality was \"a nurture thing, via the absence of my father who was always busy working. It meant I was exceptionally close to my mother\", though he stated that \"there are definitely those who have a predisposition to being gay in which the environment is irrelevant.\" In 2007, Michael said he had hidden the fact he was gay because of worries over what effect it might have on his mother. Two years later, he added: \"My depression at the end of Wham! was because I was beginning to realise I was gay, not bisexual.\"\n\nDuring the late 1980s, Michael had a relationship with Chinese-American make-up artist Kathy Jeung, who was regarded for a time as his artistic \"muse\" and who appeared in the \"I Want Your Sex\" video. Michael later said that she had been his \"only bona fide\" girlfriend, and that she knew of his bisexuality. In 2016, Jeung reacted to Michael's death by calling him a \"true friend\" with whom she had spent \"some of the best time of [her] life\".\n\nIn 1992 he established a relationship with Anselmo Feleppa, a Brazilian dress designer, whom he had met at the 1991 concert Rock in Rio. Six months into their relationship, Feleppa discovered that he was HIV-positive. Michael later said: \"It was terrifying news. I thought I could have the disease too. I couldn't go through it with my family because I didn't know how to share it with them – they didn't even know I was gay.\" In 1993, Feleppa died of an AIDS-related brain haemorrhage. Michael's single, \"Jesus to a Child\", is a tribute to Feleppa (Michael consistently dedicated it to him before performing it live), as is his album \"Older\" (1996). In 2008, speaking about the loss of his partner Feleppa, Michael said: \"It was a terribly depressing time. It took about three years to grieve, then after that I lost my mother. I felt almost like I was cursed.\"\n\nIn 1996, Michael entered into a long-term relationship with Kenny Goss, a former flight attendant, cheerleader coach, and sportswear executive from Dallas. They had homes in Dallas, a 16th-century house in Goring-on-Thames, Oxfordshire and an £8 million mansion in Highgate, North London. In late November 2005, it was reported that Michael and Goss planned to register their relationship as a civil partnership in the UK, but because of negative publicity and his upcoming tour, they postponed it. On 22 August 2011, the opening night of his Symphonica world tour, Michael announced that he and Goss had split two years earlier.\n\nMichael's homosexuality became publicly known following his April 1998 arrest for public lewdness. In 2007, Michael said \"that hiding his sexuality made him feel 'fraudulent', and his eventual outing, when he was arrested [...] in 1998, was a subconsciously deliberate act.\"\n\nIn 2012, Michael entered a relationship with Fadi Fawaz, an Australian celebrity hairstylist and a freelance photographer of Lebanese descent based in London. It was Fawaz who found Michael's body on Christmas morning 2016.\n\nOn 7 April 1998, Michael was arrested for \"engaging in a lewd act\" in a public restroom of the Will Rogers Memorial Park in Beverly Hills, California. Michael was arrested by undercover policeman Marcelo Rodríguez in a sting operation using so-called \"pretty police\". In an MTV interview, Michael stated: \"I got followed into the restroom and then this cop—I didn't know it was a cop, obviously—he started playing this game, which I think is called, 'I'll show you mine, you show me yours, and then when you show me yours, I'm going to nick [arrest] you!'\"\n\nAfter pleading \"no contest\" to the charge, Michael was fined US$810 and sentenced to 80 hours of community service. Soon afterwards, Michael made a video for his single \"Outside\", which satirised the public toilet incident and featured men dressed as policemen kissing. Rodríguez claimed that this video \"mocked\" him, and that Michael had slandered him in interviews. In 1999, he brought a US$10 million court case in California against the singer. The court dismissed the case, but an appellate court reinstated it on 3 December 2002. The court then ruled that Rodríguez, as a public official, could not legally recover damages for emotional distress.\n\nOn 23 July 2006, Michael was again accused of engaging in anonymous public sex, this time at London's Hampstead Heath. The anonymous partner was incorrectly stated to be a 58-year-old unemployed van driver. Michael stated that he cruised for anonymous sex and that this was not an issue in his relationship with partner Kenny Goss.\n\nIn February 2006, Michael was arrested for possession of Class C drugs, an incident that he described as \"my own stupid fault, as usual\". He was cautioned by the police and released. In 2007, he pleaded guilty to drug–impaired driving after obstructing the road at traffic lights in Cricklewood in northwest London, and was subsequently banned from driving for two years and sentenced to community service. During September 2007, on \"Desert Island Discs\", he said that his cannabis use was a problem; he wished he could smoke less of it and was constantly trying to do so.\n\nOn 19 September 2008, Michael was arrested in a public restroom in the Hampstead Heath area for possession of Class A and C drugs. He was taken to the police station and cautioned for controlled substance possession.\n\nIn the early hours of Sunday 4 July 2010, Michael was returning from the Gay Pride parade, when he was spotted on CCTV crashing his car into the front of a Snappy Snaps store in Hampstead, north London, and was arrested on suspicion of being unfit to drive. On 12 August, London's Metropolitan Police said he was \"charged with possession of cannabis and with driving while unfit through drink or drugs\". It was reported that Michael had also been taking the prescription medication amitriptyline. On 24 August 2010, the singer pleaded guilty at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in London after admitting driving under the influence of drugs. On 14 September 2010, at the same court, Michael was sentenced to eight weeks in prison, a fine, and a five-year ban from driving. Michael was released from Highpoint Prison in Suffolk on 11 October 2010, after serving four weeks.\n\nMichael struggled with substance abuse. He was arrested for drug-related offenses in 2006, 2008, and 2010. In September 2007, on BBC Radio 4's \"Desert Island Discs\", Michael said that his cannabis use was a problem; he wished he could smoke less of it and was constantly trying to do so. On 5 December 2009, in an interview with \"The Guardian\", Michael explained he had cut back on cannabis and was smoking only 'seven or eight' spliffs per day instead of the 25 he per day he had formerly smoked. Michael also abused sleeping pills.\n\nOn 26 October 2011, Michael cancelled a performance at the Royal Albert Hall in London due to a viral infection. On 21 November, Vienna General Hospital admitted Michael after he complained of chest pains while at a hotel two hours before his performance at a venue there for his Symphonica Tour. Michael appeared to be \"in good spirits\" and responded well to treatment following his admittance, but on 25 November hospital officials said that his condition had \"worsened overnight\". This development led to cancellations and postponements of Michael's remaining 2011 performances, which had been scheduled mainly for the United Kingdom. The singer was later confirmed to have suffered from pneumonia and, until 1 December, was in an intensive care unit; at one point, he was comatose. On 21 December the hospital discharged him. Michael told the press that the staff at the hospital had saved his life and that he would perform a free concert for them. While making the speech, he became emotional and breathless. During the speech, he also mentioned that he had undergone a tracheotomy. After waking from the coma, Michael had a temporary West Country accent, and there was concern he had developed foreign accent syndrome.\n\nOn 16 May 2013, Michael sustained a head injury when he fell from his moving car on the M1 motorway, near St Albans in Hertfordshire, and was airlifted to hospital.\n\nDuring the time of Margaret Thatcher as the Conservative Prime Minister of the United Kingdom throughout the 1980s, Michael voted Labour. In 2000, Michael joined Melissa Etheridge, Garth Brooks, Queen Latifah, the Pet Shop Boys, and k.d. lang, to perform in Washington, D.C. as part of Equality Rocks, a concert to benefit the Human Rights Campaign, an American LGBT rights group. His 2002 single \"Shoot the Dog\" was critical of the friendly relationship between the UK and US governments, in particular the relationship between Tony Blair and George W. Bush, with their involvement in the Iraq War. Michael voiced his concern about the lack of public consultation in the UK regarding the War on Terror: \"On an issue as enormous as the possible bombing of Iraq, how can you represent us when you haven't asked us what we think?\"\n\nIn 2006, Michael performed a free concert for NHS nurses in London to thank the nurses who had cared for his late mother. He told the audience: \"Thank you for everything you do — some people appreciate it. Now if we can only get the government to do the same thing.\" In 2007, Michael sent the £1,450,000 piano that John Lennon used to write \"Imagine\" around the United States on a \"peace tour\", displaying at places where notable acts of violence had taken place, such as Dallas' Dealey Plaza, where US President John F. Kennedy had been shot. He devoted his 2007 concert in Sofia, from his \"Twenty Five Tour\" to the Bulgarian nurses prosecuted in the HIV trial in Libya. On 17 June 2008, Michael said he was thrilled by California's legalisation of same-sex marriage, calling the move \"way overdue\".\n\nIn November 1984, Michael joined other British and Irish pop stars of the era to form Band Aid, singing on the charity song \"Do They Know It's Christmas?\" for famine relief in Ethiopia. This single became the UK Christmas number one in December 1984, holding Michael's own song, \"Last Christmas\" by Wham!, at No. 2; Michael also donated the royalties for \"Last Christmas\" to Ethiopia. \"Do They Know It's Christmas?\" sold 3.75 million copies in the UK and became the biggest selling single in UK chart history, a title it held until 1997 when it was overtaken by Elton John's \"Candle in the Wind 1997\", released in tribute to Princess Diana following her death (Michael attended Diana's funeral with Elton John). Michael donated the royalties from \"Last Christmas\" to Band Aid and subsequently sang with Elton John at Live Aid (the Band Aid charity concert) in 1985.\n\nIn 1986, Michael took part in the Prince's Trust charity concert held at Wembley Arena, performing \"Everytime You Go Away\" alongside Paul Young. In 1988, Michael participated in the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Tribute at Wembley Stadium in London together with many other singers (such as Annie Lennox and Sting), performing \"Sexual Healing\".\n\nA LGBT rights campaigner and HIV/AIDS charity fundraiser, the proceeds from the 1991 single \"Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me\" were divided among 10 different charities for children, AIDS and education. He was also a patron of the Elton John AIDS Foundation. Michael wore a red ribbon at the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert at Wembley Stadium in 1992.\n\nIn 2003, he paired up with Ronan Keating on \"Who Wants to be a Millionaire?\" and won £32,000, after having their original £64,000 winnings halved by missing the £125,000 question. The same year, Michael joined other celebrities to support a campaign to help raise £20 million for terminally ill children run by the Rainbow Trust Children's Charity of which he was a patron. He said: \"Loss is such an incredibly difficult thing. I bow down to people who actually have to deal with the loss of a child.\"\n\nFollowing his death, many charities revealed that Michael had privately been a supporter of them for many years. Dame Esther Rantzen, the founder and president of Childline, said he had given them \"millions\" over the years and said that he had given the royalties from his 1996 number one single \"Jesus to a Child\" to the charity. He had supported the Terrence Higgins Trust \"for many years\" as well as Macmillan Cancer Support. Michael also donated to individuals: he reportedly called the production team of the quiz show \"Deal or No Deal\" after a contestant had revealed that she needed £15,000 to fund IVF treatment, and anonymously paid for the treatment personally; and once tipped a student nurse working as a barmaid £5,000 ($6,121) because she was in debt. On 3 January 2017, another woman came forward and (with the permission of Michael's family) revealed he had anonymously paid for her IVF treatment after seeing her talk about her problems conceiving on an episode of \"This Morning\" in 2010. The woman gave birth to a girl in 2012.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2008, according to reports, Michael earned £48.5 million ($97 million) from the 25 Live tour alone. In July 2014, he was reported to have been a celebrity investor in a tax avoidance scheme called Liberty. According to the \"Sunday Times\" Rich List 2015 of the wealthiest British musicians, Michael was worth £105 million.\n\nIn the early hours of Christmas morning on Sunday, 25 December 2016, Michael died in bed at his home in Goring-on-Thames, aged 53. He was found by his Australian partner, Fadi Fawaz. No cause of death was immediately determined, although his manager Michael Lippman conjectured that heart failure was the cause of death and that Michael had \"passed away peacefully\". Fawaz described, in an interview with \"The Daily Telegraph\", finding the performer on Christmas morning, \"I went round there to wake him up and he was just gone, lying peacefully in bed. We don't know what happened yet. Everything had been very complicated recently, but George was looking forward to Christmas, and so was I.\"\nOn 29 December 2016, a post-mortem was undertaken to determine the cause of death but was inconclusive. Further tests were carried out and on 7 March 2017, a senior coroner in Oxfordshire attributed the death to natural causes as the result of a dilated cardiomyopathy with myocarditis and a fatty liver.\n\nDue to the delay of the post-mortem, Michael's funeral was not held until 29 March 2017. In a private ceremony, Michael was buried at Highgate Cemetery in north London, near his mother's grave. In summer 2017, an informal memorial garden was created for Michael outside his former home in Highgate, north London. The site, in a private square that Michael had owned, is tended by fans.\n\nAt the time of his death, Michael had sold over 115 million records worldwide. As a solo artist, he sold over 80 million records, making him one of the best-selling music artists. He sold a further 30 million records with Wham!. His debut solo album \"Faith\" sold more than 25 million copies.\n\n\n\n\n\nMichael won numerous music awards throughout his 30-year career, including three Brit Awards—winning Best British Male twice, four MTV Video Music Awards, four Ivor Novello Awards, three American Music Awards (including two in the traditionally-black Soul/R&B category), and two Grammy Awards from eight nominations.\n\n"}
{"id": "5021917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5021917", "title": "George Tirebiter", "text": "George Tirebiter\n\nGeorge Tirebiter was the nickname initially given to a dog at the University of Southern California in the 1940s who was the unofficial mascot of the school before becoming the official mascot on October 22, 1947. The nickname was passed on to George Tirebiter's subsequent successors after the original Tirebiter's death in 1950. The original Tirebiter was a nationally known figure and beloved canine of the University of Southern California. He would lead the marching band out at home football games and once even entered in an armored car. Tirebiter was kidnapped, or thought to have been kidnapped, multiple times by the University of Southern California's rival the University of California, Los Angeles, USC student politicians for publicity, and once possibly by a newspaper. The line of Tirebiters lasted through 1961 when the legacy of the Tirebiter mascots was replaced with Traveler, the white Andalusian horse ridden by a Trojan rider at USC home football games and various other university events.\n\nThere exists a wide range of possible stories for Tirebiter's origin.\n\nOne claims that a stray dog was discovered by a group of USC students at Currie's Ice Cream parlor and that one student remarked that the dog looked like a Navy V-12 student named George Kuhns. Thus, the dog was dubbed \"George\".\n\nAnother story was that the dog was the pet of a local couple and that he was initially named \"Leo\". When the couple split the dog was abandoned before being adopted by a local woman, Ann Schreiber. She was supposedly a great lover of dogs who wanted to provide for the lost dog. She named him \"George\" due to the resemblance he bore to a friend of hers.\n\nAnother origin story was claimed by Dan Schiavone, president of the Trojan Knights, on the occasion of a memorial ceremony honoring Tirebiter on September 21, 1950. Schiavone claimed that Tirebiter was a K-9 police dog that was discarded from the program and subsequently found as a stray on USC's campus. However, the veracity of this account is somewhat in question due to the context of the speech and this being the singular mention of such an origin.\n\nHe received the surname \"Tirebiter\" because he would bite at the tires of cars he chased down Trousdale Parkway, which bisects the campus. (Today Trousdale is only open to foot traffic.)\n\nThe first George Tirebiter was for a period of around six years the unofficial mascot of USC. He was notable for chasing down passing cars and nipping at their wheels. The lovable shaggy mutt quickly endeared himself to the student body. He was pampered by the fraternities and sororities in USC's Greek community, routinely being carried back and forth from campus and being fed ice cream.\n\nIn 1947, the student body urged the student government to designate George Tirebiter as the official mascot of USC. In an elaborate celebration involving a parade of 30 cars, a marching band, and campus celebrities, George Tirebiter was crowned the official mascot of the University of Southern California on October 22, 1947.\n\nShortly after his coronation as official mascot, George Tirebiter was kidnapped by UCLA students on October 30, 1947. He was taken from USC's campus and sedated. Then the UCLA students shaved the letters U-C-L-A into the fur on Tirebiter's back. To take the prank one step further they took Tirebiter by the \"Los Angeles Times\" to be photographed for the paper. After this ordeal, Tirebiter was finally returned to USC in a \"doped and confused\" state.\n\nOnce he became the official mascot, the Trojan Knights became his handler at campus events and football games. At football games, Tirebiter would be led out onto the field with the marching band and for the length of the game stand in front of the student rooting section.\n\nGeorge became further endeared to the student body when he bit the University of California Los Angeles mascot Joe Bruin on the nose at a home football game and chased after Oski, the Golden Bear mascot of the University of California Berkeley, at another home game.\n\nIn 1948, Tirebiter got into trouble with city health officials because of two incidents of biting people and his semi-stray status. The city presented an ultimatum to USC. They required that someone or some organization assume responsibility and ownership for the dog or he would be turned into the pound. In the wake of these events on September 29, 1948, the Trojan Knights decided that they would take responsibility for Tirebiter's housing, food, ownership, legal liability, and transportation.\n\nAfter assuming responsibility for the dog, the Trojan Knights built a doghouse on Bovard Field for him. Due to Tirebiter's loud barking and his proximity to classrooms, numerous professors complained about the noise and disruption he caused. One professor actually proposed that one student should always be on \"Tirebiter duty\" to pet the dog and make sure he did not disrupt class.\n\nThroughout Tirebiter's time as USC's unofficial and official mascot, many people attempted to describe what kind of dog Tirebiter could possibly be. The most common characterization was that he was merely a pound mutt. Other attempts, even by canine experts, had similarly underwhelming conclusions. A zoology professor described him as \"sort of an Airedale Terrier,\" but conceded that \"it would take another 100 years of breeding to produce another George.\"\n\nIn 1949, Tirebiter's already surly nature began to get worse. The Trojan Knights decided to place him in the care of a local animal shelter with the hopes that he would recover. However, his condition did not improve. In early 1950, he no longer even recognized or acknowledged his caretakers. Eddy and George Prussell, former presidents of the Trojan Knights, conferred with Dean of Students Bernard L. Hyink to decide on a solution. They decided to send him to the farm of Bill Hubbard, a Trojan alumnus, in El Centro, California, for the summer so that the dog could recover. Sadly, sometime during June 1950, Tirebiter was run over by a passing car on the farm and killed. For the next three months, however, this news was not disseminated to the public. It was not until September 19, 1950, that Tirebiter's fate was known. A \"Daily Trojan\" writer routinely asked Dan Schiavone, the president of the Trojan Knights, \"How's Tirebiter getting along?\" Schiavone responded matter-of-factly, \"He's dead.\" This news was then broken on September 20, 1950, by the \"Daily Trojan\" with the full page headline \"Tirebiter is Dead!\"\n\nThe student body then planned a memorial ceremony for Tirebiter on September 22, 1950. The ceremony was led by Schiavone and consisted of a parade of convertibles with black bunting, a marching band, and the student body. Upon reaching Tirebiter's cement footprints, immortalized during Tirebiter's coronation in 1947, a memorial wreath was laid and a trumpeter played \"Taps\" as the campus said farewell to its beloved canine mascot.\n\nThe day before the memorial ceremony for Tirebiter I, plans were already being made to find a successor of some sort for the mascot. A ballot was printed in the \"Daily Trojan\" with choices of \"George Jr. , Other Animal, Statue of George, or Other Object.\". Nominations of all sorts began to pour in from the student body. Through one day of voting, Delta Tau Delta's pedigreed boxer \"Sully\" led the voting. Behind him were the Trojan Knights's proposed successor \"George Jr.\", who they claimed was Tirebiter I's son, and the Acacia fraternity's bulldog \"Pythagoras.\" In addition to these early leaders, a variety of other canines and memorials were proposed.\n\nOn September 25, 1950, Acacia decided to withdraw Pythagoras from the campaign. Don Gibbs, the fraternity president, explained, \"We do not feel that a fraternity-owned dog would make a good mascot because of the competition between fraternities. A true mascot must have the complete backing of the entire student body in promoting school athletic spirit. Therefore, we are withdrawing 'Pythagoras'.\"\n\nAdditionally on September 25, it was announced that \"Hector the Horse\", a spotted Palomino horse had been entered into the race by the Trovets, a spirit and service organization. Floyd McCann, president of the Trovets, claimed, \"We feel that Hector the Trojan Horse is a much more dignified and appropriate symbol of SC tradition than some dog. George was a character in his own right and voluntarily adopted the Trojans. But we don't believe he can be replaced by draft methods.\" This quote, now seems quite prescient in light of USC's adopting its iconic mascot Traveler (mascot) in 1961.\n\nOn September 26, it became a showdown between \"George Tirebiter II\" and \"Hector the Trojan Horse\" after the withdrawal of Sully, the Delta Tau Delta boxer. Although Hector was leading by a slim margin of 36 votes, possible financial problems with Hector were reported by the \"Daily Trojan\". They calculated that it would be considerably more expensive to have an equine mascot than a canine mascot. This was due to Hector not being owned by USC, but rather being rented from a nearby stable.\n\nOn September 28, it was announced that George Tirebiter II would be the official successor to Tirebiter I. The final vote in the student body senate was guided by Tirebiter II's victory in the \"Daily Trojan\" student poll 800 votes to Hector's 518. It is a remarkable increase in voting in one day that finally decided the winner. Tirebiter II's candidacy was most likely aided by the financial questions relating to Hector's ownership and upkeep.\n\nGeorge Tirebiter II was named the official mascot on September 28, 1950. He made his official debut at a football spirit rally for the USC-Iowa game on September 29.\n\nIn 2006, USC unveiled a statue celebrating the mascot's memory. The life-size statue portrays George Tirebiter II (although he is often mistaken for George Tirebiter I) with a small piece of chewed tire and is located at the south end of campus on Trousdale Parkway between the Mudd Hall of Philosophy and the Leventhal School of Accounting. George is facing Exposition Park and the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum: the home stadium for USC Trojans football. During \"Troy Week\", the week before the annual rivalry football game against UCLA, the Trojan Knights, with the help of USC facilities management, erect a cardinal and gold doghouse around the statue to protect it from possible vandalism.\n\nThe plaque on the statue reads:\n\nThe protagonist of the Firesign Theatre album \"Don't Crush That Dwarf, Hand Me the Pliers\" was named George Leroy Tirebiter, after the dog, and that album's movie-within-a-play, \"High School Madness\" featured a boy named Porgy Tirebiter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1915553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915553", "title": "Golovans", "text": "Golovans\n\nThe Golovans (Russian: голованы, lit. \"Headies\") are a fictional alien race from the Noon Universe created by the Strugatsky brothers. Their homeworld is called Saraksh, allegedly discovered by A.-I. Bader in 2148 AD. The first contact between Golovans and a human was registered in 2157 (initiated by Maxim Kammerer) although officially it happened three years later in 2160 (see Lev Abalkin).\n\nGolovans are mentioned in \"Inhabited Island\", \"Beetle in an Anthill\" and \"The Time Wanderers\".\n\nGolovans are described as a dog-like race with disproportionately large heads. Their name is a reference to this latter quality.\n\nAlthough the Golovans' intellectual abilities easily surpass those of humans, they lack even basic technology of their own and prefer to use alien tools (although they can easily live without them).\n\nGolovans are considered a lucky mutation of Saraksh fauna due to extreme radiation levels after the atomic war on Saraksh, although some sources believe that they were genetically bred by the planet's human residents before the war. They resided within Saraksh's irradiated, heavily fortified \"forest.\"\n\nBecause of the mystery Golovans like to surround themselves with, the first official contact between them and humans was registered twelve years after the discovery of their homeworld. A young scientist and progressor Lev Abalkin was the first to meet and study them, and he was also the only human to work in a pair with a Golovan, Schokn-Itrch. The latter later became the head of the Golovans' permanent embassy on Earth.\n\nAfter the official contact a number of personal exchange programs were set up (Abalkin was a participant in one of those). Towards the end of the 22nd century, the Golovans decided that they had learned all they possibly could from space exploration and downscaled their involvement in human space programs.\n"}
{"id": "47312222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47312222", "title": "Horror (2015 film)", "text": "Horror (2015 film)\n\n\nThe film premiered on November 18, 2015 at the Museum of Modern Art, and was released in a limited release and through video on demand on November 20, 2015, by IFC Midnight.\n\nThe film opens with Harry Cox (Balthazar Getty) having sex in a car with his mistress, Lisa (Lydia Hearst). After Lisa exits the car, his wife Alex (Chloë Sevigny) calls him and chastises him on the phone. After he hangs up, his throat is slashed, and Lisa is also murdered .\n\nTwelve-year-old Sam is invited to a sleepover at classmate Sofia Cox's mansion in Connecticut. Sam finds herself embarrassed by her lack of wealth amongst her rich and privileged classmates. Also at the sleepover are Francesca, Ava, and Georgie. Another girl, Cat White, is being driven to the house by her father, Dr. White (Timothy Hutton); it is established that Cat is suffering psychological problems and has been in trouble for bullying the girls.\n\nThe girls engage in a pretend fashion show, incessantly posting photos of themselves on social media with their smart phones. Cat arrives, and Alex allows the girls into her walk-in safe where numerous pieces of jewelry and clothing are stored. She then leaves to go into town for a twelve-step meeting.\n\nAs the night goes on, the girls, each consumed by their cell phones, begin to fight with one another. Cat instigates a confrontation and taunts Georgie about her weight, and Sofia forces her to leave. Cat storms into the woods, where she attempts to call her father to pick her up. She begins tagging Georgie in a stream of cruel photos on Facebook; the girls collectively decide to lock their cell phones in the safe to avoid Cat's cyberbullying, and Sofia throws the keys to the safe in the house's swimming pool.\n\nAfter Dr. White receives a frantic voicemail from Cat, he returns to the house and interrogates the girls about his daughter's whereabouts. He tells the girls he is going to press charges. Sam goes to search for Cat in the woods, and finds Sofia's father's car parked, with blood across the windshield. She returns to the house panicked, but the girls don't believe her.\n\nGeorgie and Francesca begin to taunt Sofia about her mother's alleged affair with Dr. White, and she leaves. In the woods, Sofia also stumbles upon her father's car, and finds his corpse inside. She calls her mother; Alex answers, believing it to be her husband, and angrily yells into the phone about his cheating and hangs up. Sofia takes a revolver from the car and flees. At the house, Sam stumbles upon Ava's dead body, and is attacked by a masked assailant. She goes to retrieve the safe key from the pool to get the girls' cell phones back.\n\nGeorgie has her throat slashed; Francesca is also stabbed to death. Both of their deaths are streamed on the internet, and photos of their bodies posted online. Sam retrieves the key and opens the safe, but is attacked again, and locks herself inside. On her phone, she finds photos and video of her friends' murders posted on a social media game by Cat. Dr. White returns to the house, and finds Georgie's body. Sam tells him that Cat has killed Ava and Georgie; Cat emerges and unmasks herself. Believing that Dr. White murdered her father, Sofia shoots him to death. Witnessing this, Cat flees; Sofia then learns that Cat is the murderer.\n\nSam leaves the house to get help. She encounters Cat on the road, wearing the mask. Alex arrives and witnesses Cat shoot herself in the mouth, killing herself. The film ends with a montage of photos of the murders, followed by a video uploaded by Cat, in which she professes her revenge against the girls, and says that she will \"be remembered forever.\"\n\nIn February 2014, it was announced that Tara Subkoff had written and was going to direct a film starring Chloë Sevigny, Timothy Hutton, Balthazar Getty, Natasha Lyonne, Taryn Manning, Stella Schnabel, Lydia Hearst, and Annabelle Dexter-Jones. Screenwriter Casey Barnhart was brought in to do an uncredited rewrite before production.\n\nIn a later interview with \"Elle\", Subkoff stated that she was inspired to write the film after a discussion she'd had with one of her friends' daughters, who had been cyberbullied. \"[The idea] started because I asked my friend's daughter, \"What is horror, to you?\" This girl was cyberbullied very badly... Now, I was bullied badly as a kid, but I could always change schools. I could always go home. Now you can't…when bullying follows you home, and there's no escape and no end, to me, that's horror. And to so many girls, that's just life.\"\n\nThe film was shot in upstate New York and Connecticut over a period of eighteen days during the winter of 2015. Subkoff described the shoot as \"difficult\" due to the harsh weather conditions at the time. Prior to shooting, Subkoff spent several weeks doing acting workshops and improvisation exercises with the young cast members in order to prepare the girls for their roles. The house used in the film is located in Bedford, New York.\n\nSubkoff spent nearly seven months editing the film with her editors Janice Hampton and Catrin Hedstrom. The animated sequences in the film were designed by artist Tabor Robak.\n\nThe soundtrack for the film, titled \"#Horror: Original Score by EMA, featuring the original score by EMA was released via digital download on December 11, 2015, by Matador Records. On November 20, 2015, prior to the release of the soundtrack, \"Amnesia Haze\" a song from the soundtrack was released online. A music video for the song was later released.\n\nEMA composed the score of the film, EMA stated: \"Film work and scoring is fun for me because I get to make all this music that wouldn’t necessarily fit on an EMA record. We worked really closely with Tara Subkoff on the music. She definitely always had an opinion on what she liked and what she didn’t. It was my first score, so I’m not sure if all composers end up spending weeks in a room with the director, but that’s how we did it.\"\n\nOn May 15, 2015, images from the film were released. in October 2015, Entertainment Weekly premiered the first trailer for the film. in November 2015, \"Vanity Fair\" released an exclusive trailer for the film only on their website. That same month ShockTillYouDrop.com premiered a clip from the film on their website.\n\nThe film was screened out of competition at the Cannes Film Festival \"Cannes Market\" section for buyers and distributors in May 2015, with director Subkoff staging an anti-bullying protest outside the event.\n\nOn July 31, 2015, it was announced that IFC Midnight had acquired distribution rights to the film. The film screened at the New York City Horror Film Festival on November 12, 2015, and had its world premiere at the Museum of Modern Art on November 18, 2015, both with director Tara Subkoff in attendance. It was released on November 20, 2015, in a limited release and through video on demand.\n\n\"#Horror\" received mixed reviews from the critics. It holds a 45% rating on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, based on 10 reviews, with an average rating of 5.1/10. On Metacritic the film holds a rating of 42 out of 100, based on 7 critics indicating \"mixed or average reviews.\" \nFrank Scheck of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave the film a negative review, writing: \"Infusing its generic horror tropes with vaguely satirical aspects, the film doesn't really work on either level. Unintentionally campy (or purposely, it's hard to tell) and marred by ridiculous plotting and dialogue, #Horror is mostly just a horror.\" Christine N. Ziemba of \"Paste Magazine\" gave the film a mixed review, writing: \"It’s a familiar trope—the killer in the woods hunting a bunch of school girls left home alone—and so much less terrifying than kids armed with their phones, social media accounts, and snark and spite. Despite the issues with #Horror’s plot and some of the performances, we’re still interested in seeing what Subkoff takes on next. She’s self-assured behind the camera with an eye for detail, and developing a distinctive, sleek style that’s worth a second chance.\" Despite mixed and negative reviews, Inkoo Kang of \"TheWrap.com\" gave the film a positive review, writing: \"And yet, “#Horror” undeniably succeeds in its main mission: parodying and scrutinizing the ease with which we capture, recycle, reframe, and desensitize ourselves to even the most horrific images. That makes Blingee possibly the scariest website out there.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47292719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47292719", "title": "Husayn Pasha ibn Makki", "text": "Husayn Pasha ibn Makki\n\nHusayn Pasha ibn Makki (also known as Mekkizâde Hüseyin Paşa) (died 1765) served as the Ottoman \"wali\" (provincial governor) of Damascus (1757) and Marash (1762), and the \"sanjak-bey\" (district governor) of his native Gaza (1763–1765). \n\nHusayn Pasha ibn Makki was an Arab from Gaza, and one of the few ethnic Arab governors (the other Arab governors were mostly members of the al-Azm family) who had governed Ottoman Damascus.\n\nHusayn Pasha was appointed Governor of Damascus in February 1757 to replace the deposed long-time governor, As'ad Pasha al-Azm. His term in office was short-lived and marked by chaos and violence in the city of Damascus. As he entered office a price hike for bread in the city spiked due to the short supply of grain as a result of the severe winter that preceded his rule. A popular uprising protesting the prices took place in the city. Damascene notables heading to Husayn Pasha's residence to welcome him were assaulted by some protesters and vocally condemned for alleged grain hoarding and \"exploiting the poor and miserable\". Husayn Pasha responded by ordering an investigation and soon after the prices decreased and calm was restored. However, this was short-lived and the prices rose within a few months. In the summer of 1757, mass violence spread throughout Damascus as rival factions of Jannisaries fought each other and besieged rival neighborhoods, while a popular revolt caused many mercenaries stationed in the city to flee.\n\nAs Governor of Damascus, Husayn Pasha was also the \"amir al-hajj\" (commander of the annual Hajj pilgrim caravan to Mecca). In April 1757, he went on a tour of the province's villages to collect the taxes imposed for funding the supply and protection of the caravan, and in June he led the caravan in its departure from Damascus. Husayn Pasha led it safely to Mecca, but on the return to Damascus, the caravan's \"jurdah\" (advance guard) was assaulted by a coalition of Bedouin tribes led Qa'dan al-Fa'iz of the Bani Sakhr in al-Qatranah near al-Karak. Its commander Musa Pasha was wounded and died seeking help in Daraa, while most of the \"jurdah\" dispersed, fleeing to Hauran, Gaza, Jerusalem or Ma'an. Reinforcements were sent from Damascus, but went no further than al-Balqa. When Husayn Pasha, now in the northern Hejaz, realized reinforcements were not arriving, he attempted to bribe al-Fa'iz, but to no avail. The Bedouin tribes launched a massive assault against the caravan south of Tabuk in October, looting it and massacred Muslim pilgrims, including the sister of Ottoman sultan Osman II, in the process. About 20,000 pilgrims were killed by the Bedouin or died of thirst or excessive heat.\n\nThere were various reasons the Bedouin launched the assault, but the main reason was the financial gain they saw in looting the caravan to compensate for the loss of much of their territory and income to the Anizzah tribes of Najd, who invaded much of the Syrian Desert in the years prior. Prior to making the Hajj, Husayn Pasha refused to pay the traditional protection fee to the Bani Saqr, paying the Anizzah instead. However, Husayn Pasha held the autonomous Arab ruler of northern Palestine, Zahir al-Umar, as culpable. Husayn Pasha saw it as a priority to subdue Zahir and annex his territories (which were part of Sidon Eyalet) and believed Zahir, who maintained close ties with the Bani Saqr, incited the Bedouin tribes to raid the caravan. Zahir denied the allegation and purchased the looted goods, including Sultan Osman III's decorated banner, in order to return them to the sultanate and prove his loyalty. The Ottoman authorities remained suspicious of Zahir nonetheless, and also believed that ex-governor As'ad Pasha had a hand in the raid since no attacks against the caravan had occurred during his 15-year governorship. The latter was arrested and was executed on the way to a prison in Crete.\n\nHusayn Pasha did not return to Damascus with the surviving pilgrims and his absence left a political void in the city. The \"yerliyya\" Jannisaries revolted, causing businesses in Damascus to shutter and prices of bread to more than double, leading to more riots in the city. As a result of his failure to protect the caravan, Husayn Pasha was dismissed from office by the end of the year.\n\nHusayn Pasha was exiled to his native Gaza after his dismissal, but was later assigned Governor of Marash Eyalet in Anatolia in 1762. He served there for less than a year before being appointed \"sanjak-bey\" (district governor) of Gaza. He served as Governor of Gaza until he was killed in a confrontation with the Bani Sakhr and Wuhaydat tribes in Gaza's general vicinity in 1765.\n\n"}
{"id": "500995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=500995", "title": "Invagination", "text": "Invagination\n\nIn developmental biology, invagination is a mechanism that takes place during gastrulation. This mechanism or cell movement happens mostly in the vegetal pole. Invagination consists of the folding of an area of the exterior sheet of cells towards the inside of the blastula. In each organism, the complexity will be different depending on the number of cells. Invagination can be referenced as one of the steps of the establishment of the body plan. The term, originally used in embryology, has been adopted in other disciplines as well. \nThere is more than one type of movement for invagination. Two common types are axial and orthogonal. The difference between the production of the tube formed in the cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix. Axial can be formed at a single point along the axis of a surface. Orthogonal is linear and trough.\n\n\nThe invagination in \"Amphioxus\" is the first cell movement of gastrulation. This process was first described by Conklin. During gastrulation, the blastula will be transformed by the invagination. The endoderm will fold towards the inner part and that way the blastocoel will be gone transforming into like a cup-shaped structure with a double wall. The inner wall will be called the archenteron; the primitive gut. The archenteron will open to the exterior through the blastopore. The outer wall will become the ectoderm. Later forming the epidermis and neural crest.\n\nIn tunicates, invagination is the first mechanism that takes place during gastrulation. The four largest endoderm cells induce the invagination process in the tunicates. Invagination consists of the internal movements of a sheet of cells (the endoderm) based on changes in their shape. The blastula of the tunicates is a little flattened in the vegetal pole making a change of shape from a columnar to a wedge shape. Once the endoderm cells were invaginated, the cells will keep moving beneath the ectoderm. Later, the blastopore will be formed and with this, the invagination process is complete. The blastopore will be surrounded by the mesoderm by all sides.\n\nIn Continental philosophy, the term invagination is used to explain a special kind of metanarrative. It was first used by Maurice Merleau-Ponty () to describe the dynamic self-differentiation of the 'flesh'. It was later used by Rosalind E. Krauss and Jacques Derrida (\"The Law of Genre\", \"Glyph 7\", 1980); for Derrida, an invaginated text is a narrative that folds upon itself, \"endlessly swapping outside for inside and thereby producing a structure \"en abyme\"\". He applies the term to such texts as Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Judgment\" and Maurice Blanchot's \"La Folie du Jour\". Invagination is an aspect of différance, since according to Derrida it opens the \"inside\" to the \"other\" and denies both inside and outside a stable identity.\n"}
{"id": "26384929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26384929", "title": "Jesse Nilsson", "text": "Jesse Nilsson\n\nJesse Allan Nilsson (December 9, 1977 - April 25, 2003) was a Canadian actor who starred in several television programmes, one of his notable and last parts being Gabriel Patterson on \"Adventure Inc.\"\n\nNilsson was active in the dramatic arts from a very young age. He was cast as Eric Singer, one of the central characters in the Disney TV movie \"Model Behavior\", which was released on 12 March 2000 in the USA.\nIn the television show \"Our Hero\", which ran from 2000 to 2002, Nilsson played the part of casual-warm and a super-supportive Rollins, an animal rescue guy who \"knows way too much about raccoon poop\".\n\nNilsson's last major role was as Gabriel Patterson on \"Adventure Inc.\" He died from pneumonia-related heart failure on April 25, 2003 in North York, Ontario before the 22nd and final episode, \"Trapped\", had been broadcast, its original airdate being May 12, 2003. Nilsson was 25 years old. A tribute was added to the last few frames of this episode showing a picture of Nilsson under which was written \"In memory of Jesse Nilsson 1977-2003\".\n"}
{"id": "43904843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43904843", "title": "John Paul (pioneer)", "text": "John Paul (pioneer)\n\nJohn Paul was a pioneer in Ohio and Indiana, founding Xenia, Ohio and Madison, Indiana. He was a delegate at the convention that drafted the constitution of Ohio, and was a state senator in the first general assembly after statehood. He also served in the first state senate of Indiana. He founded the second newspaper in Indiana. He was known as \"Colonel John Paul\" for his services in the American Revolutionary War and the War of 1812.\n\nJohn Paul was the fourth of seven children of Michael Paul, a native of Holland, and Ann Parker, a native of Germantown, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania They were married at Germantown in about 1751 or 1752, and John Paul was born in Germantown on November 12, 1758. In 1766 or 1767, the family moved to Redstone, Old Fort, now Brownsville, Fayette County, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1778, Paul joined George Rogers Clark in the Illinois campaign, a series of battles during the American Revolutionary War, culminating with the capture of the town of Kaskaskia and British fort at Vincennes in 1779.\n\nIn 1781, Paul's family moved to Kentucky, and settled at what would later be Hardin County. Kentucky achieved statehood in 1792, and Hardin County was established the next year. Paul was the first clerk and recorder of the county. In 1794, he married Sarah Thornberry Grover. They had four children, with the eldest, Mary Berry, dying young.\n\nIn 1800, Paul moved to the Northwest Territory, in what was then Hamilton County, but would later be Greene County, Ohio. He was nominated in 1802 by the Democratic-Republican Party convention as a delegate to the convention that would write a constitution for the proposed state of Ohio. He received the second highest number of votes. He voted to allow civil right for Black people in the new state.\n\nPaul was elected one of four Hamilton County members of the Ohio State Senate for the first general assembly in 1803. Greene County was created during this assembly. Paul was appointed first county recorder and clerk of courts for the county, and was clerk for the county commissioners. The county seat was located on land owned by Paul, where the first building of the village of Xenia, Ohio was erected in 1804.\n\nPaul moved to Indiana Territory in 1809, and established the village of Madison. He established the first ferry from Madison to Kentucky across the Ohio River in 1811. He also established a grist mill and saw mill before enlisting as a volunteer in the War of 1812 in 1812. He commanded a regiment under General William Henry Harrison in Northwest Ohio during the siege of Fort Meigs and the attack on Fort Stephenson. He was thereafter referred to as \"Colonel John Paul\".\n\nIn 1813, Paul established the second newspaper in Indiana, the \"Western Eagle\", and in 1814 he was named president of the first bank in the village. In 1816, Indiana became a state, and Paul was elected to the first state senate, where he was the presiding officer.\n\nPaul made a trip on horseback to view some horses he was considering buying. His horse swam a flood swollen creek, but Paul fell and struck his head on a stone. He was found unconscious and soaking wet some hours later, and suffered from rheumatism for three years before his death in Madison on June 6, 1830. He was buried at city cemetery. In 1904, the city removed all burials to Fairmont Cemetery, and the original cemetery became \"John Paul Park\" in Madison.\n\nIn 1816, Paul's daughter, Ann Parker Paul was married to William Hendricks. He was a senator and governor of Indiana.\n\n"}
{"id": "23326311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23326311", "title": "June 2009 Washington Metro train collision", "text": "June 2009 Washington Metro train collision\n\nDuring the afternoon rush hour of June 22, 2009, a subway train-on-train collision occurred between two southbound Red Line Washington Metro trains in Northeast, Washington, D.C., United States. A moving train collided with a train stopped ahead of it; the train operator along with eight passengers were killed, and 80 people were injured, making it the deadliest crash in the history of the Washington Metro.\n\nThe NTSB investigation found that after a June 17 replacement of a track circuit component at what became the site of the June 22 collision, the track circuit had been suffering from parasitic oscillations which left it unable to reliably report when that stretch of track was occupied by a train. The struck train came to a stop because of traffic ahead. Because the entire train was within the faulty circuit, it became invisible to the Automatic Train Control (ATC) system. The train behind it was therefore commanded to proceed at 55 mph. The operator of the striking train applied the emergency brake after the stopped train came into full view but there was not enough time to prevent the collision, which occurred at approximately 44 mph.\n\nAt approximately 4:57 pm EDT (20:57 UTC) on Monday, June 22, 2009, Washington Metro Train 112, bound from Glenmont for Shady Grove, left the Takoma station. Minutes later at 5:02 pm, Train 112 rear-ended Train 214, which was stopped between the Takoma and Fort Totten stations while waiting for another train to leave the Fort Totten station. Nine people were killed, including the operator in the lead car of the moving train, Jeanice McMillan, 42, of Springfield, Virginia; at least 80 people were injured. The death toll makes the crash the deadliest in Metro history.\n\nThe NTSB found that Train 214 had come to a stop entirely within the faulty circuit B2-304, making it effectively invisible to the automatic train control system. Other trains had received speed commands of 0 when traveling through this circuit but had enough forward momentum to make it to the next circuit and resume detection and receipt of speed commands from the ATC system. Train 214 was going slower than normal because it was being driven in manual mode by its operator, and it came to a stop while remaining on circuit B2-304 and was therefore invisible. Train 112 behind it was given full speed commands by the ATC to proceed on the track. The investigation found that the emergency brakes had been applied by the operator of train 112 when train 214 came into view but it was too late to avert the collision.\n\nA series of almost-collisions in 2005 in similar circumstances in the tunnel between Foggy Bottom and Rosslyn stations led to a new test procedure which would have identified the faulty circuit after installation. However, by 2009, Metro engineers were unaware of this incident or the tests developed to detect the failure condition.\n\nTrain 112 (the moving train) was made up of cars 1079, 1078, 1071, 1070, 1130 and 1131—all from the 1000-Series. Train 214 (the stationary train) was made up of cars 3036, 3037, 3257, 3256, 5067 and 5066, from the Breda 3000-Series and the CAF 5000-Series. The cars are equipped with on-board systems called Automatic Train Operation and Automatic Train Control, which allow autonomous operation with little human intervention. \n\nAfter the collision, WMATA announced a policy of no longer placing the 1000-Series at the end of train consists to prevent a telescoping in a collision as they were the weakest cars structurally. All 1000-Series cars were then put in the middle of trainsets and served for another 8 years until their retirement in June 2017.\n\n5066-5067 were never repaired and were used as a source for spare parts until all the 5000-Series railcars were retired in 2018. 1078 was also retired following the collision.\n\nAt 5:20 pm, rescuers first entered car 1079, the lead car of train 112. This car had telescoped over the rear car of the stationary train, trapping many passengers who required rescue by emergency workers using ladders for access. Survivors described the crash as \"like... hit[ting] a concrete wall,\" with air clouded by smoke and debris, and panic among passengers when car doors did not immediately open.\n\nDennis Oglesby and Martin Griffith, two United States Army soldiers who were in the lead train and were uninjured in the collision, helped passengers, most of whom appeared to have minor injuries, evacuate from their train. Oglesby and Griffith then noticed that six to eight people from the other train had been ejected by the force of the collision and were more seriously injured. One person from the overtaking train had been thrown onto the roof of the stationary train and had suffered a severe head wound. The soldiers gave first aid to the more seriously injured victims until help arrived, and informed responding emergency personnel that the rails were still powered and needed to be shut down.\nImmediately following the collision, firefighters and paramedics from District of Columbia Fire and Emergency Medical Services were dispatched to the Takoma Metro station, and arrived at the location of the collision soon after. D.C. Fire Chief Dennis Rubin stated that the initial 9-1-1 emergency calls made the incident seem small, but after firefighters arrived on scene, they dispatched mass casualty incident teams. Within two hours, more than 200 firefighters were on-scene in response to the three-alarm incident. Rescuers worked through the night of June 22, using cranes and heavy rescue equipment to free trapped passengers and search for bodies.\n\nChief Rubin initially confirmed four fatalities (including the train operator) and 74 injuries, 14 of which were considered moderate and 6 critical. Five of the dead were discovered in the wreckage and removed from the site of the collision on the morning of June 23, as cranes dismantling the wrecked trains revealed the bodies. Nine fatalities were eventually confirmed. Major General (ret.) David F. Wherley, Jr. of the District of Columbia Air National Guard – known for deploying fighter jets to defend Washington, D.C. during the September 11 attacks – was killed in the collision along with his wife, Ann; the other passengers killed in the crash were Lavonda King, Veronica DuBose, Cameron Williams, Dennis Hawkins, Mary Doolittle, and Ana Fernandez.\n\nAccording to Daniel Kaniewski, a former George W. Bush administration homeland security official now with the Homeland Security Policy Institute at George Washington University, the overall emergency response was \"calm and ordered\", indicating that U.S. emergency response \"during extraordinary incidents [has] significantly improved\" since the September 11 attacks.\n\nImmediately following the incident, Red Line services were suspended between the Fort Totten and Takoma stations, and New Hampshire Avenue was closed. Service between the Silver Spring and Rhode Island Ave–Brentwood stations was suspended pending the completion of the initial investigation and the clearing of debris. This section was expected to remain shut down at least through June 23. Washington Mayor Adrian Fenty said that transportation \"all along the East Coast will be significantly impacted\", as Amtrak and MARC Trains run on tracks adjacent to the crash site. Bus services were affected to route Metrorail passengers around the closed track, but area commuting was severely affected. The federal government urged its employees in the capital area to telecommute on June 23 if possible. The Red Line was projected to be very crowded after resumption of service and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) advised people to take alternate bus routes. The replacement bus shuttle between the affected stations was expected to be subjected to long delays.\n\nServices were restored in both directions on Saturday, June 27, but with a reduced maximum speed of 35 mph on the entire Red Line, and slower speeds in the area of the collision.\n\nShortly after the incident, WMATA General Manager John Catoe stated that the cause was not known but that \"the system is safe.\" The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) began an investigation. WMATA and NTSB investigators considered several possible causes, which might include operator error, brake failure, fault in the computerized signal and operation system, or a combination of the three. During rush hour operation, train movement is typically controlled by a centralized computer system, and a separate decentralized system can automatically apply the brakes to prevent a collision. These systems had failed at least once in the past, and the NTSB subsequently identified incompatible specifications, from the maximum deceleration capability of the trains to the deceleration rates used in the wayside system design. The train has a manual emergency brake, which can be applied by the driver in the event of an imminent collision, if the driver can see and identify the hazard with sufficient time to stop. Officials indicated that the manual brake was indeed engaged. It is possible that the brake system failed to perform as designed, or that the operator applied the brake too late. The lead car of the moving train was two months overdue for scheduled brake maintenance. In a press conference the evening of June 22, Catoe stated that the last car on the stopped train was a CAF 5000-Series car (car 5066), which entered service in 2001, and that the lead car on the moving train was a Rohr Industries 1000-Series car. WMATA later confirmed that all of the cars on the moving train were 1000-Series.\nThe 1000-Series entered service in 1976 when the Metro system opened, and were refurbished and had their motors converted from DC to AC propulsion by Breda Costruzioni Ferroviarie in the mid-1990s. In 2006, the NTSB cited the 1000-Series cars as \"vulnerable to catastrophic telescoping damage and complete loss of occupant survival space in a longitudinal end-structure collision\". It recommended refurbishment of the entire series after a 2004 collision at the Woodley Park station in which a 1000-Series Rohr car telescoped into another train. In this case, NTSB's Hersman confirmed that, \"the first car [of the striking train] overrode the rear car [of the struck train], and much of the survivable space on that first car of the striking train was compromised\". The NTSB called for the accelerated retirement of the 1000-Series cars, or urged that they be \"retrofitted with crashworthiness collision protection that is comparable to 6000-Series car railcars.\" Additionally, the 1000-Series cars lack data recorders that could be used in determining the cause of a crash. During the press conference, Catoe stated that he had \"no basis to suspend the use of 1000-Series cars at this time\". However, WMATA later announced a decision to no longer use the 1000-Series cars as the lead or trailing units of any trains.\n\nOn June 24, WMATA issued a press release stating that the agency is \"not likely to know the cause for several weeks or months as the investigation unfolds.\" Twenty-four hours after the incident, the NTSB confirmed that evidence indicated that the emergency brake had been engaged by the operator. Additionally, the striking train was in automatic mode and so the on-board software should have stopped the train.\nOn June 25, NTSB tests of the long track circuit below the stopped train showed that it did not work correctly, failing to detect the presence of a test train that investigators had placed on it. Hersman said, \"These circuits are vital. It's a signal system. It's providing information, authorization and speed commands to the following train,\" but stopped short of blaming them in this case. WMATA had replaced all 20,000 track circuit relays system-wide in 1999, after a component designed to last 70 years began failing after only 25 years in service, but the agency claims that none of the newer relays had failed prior to this event. WMATA ordered the inspection of all track circuits on its of track after the NTSB test. On July 23, the NTSB announced that the track circuit at the accident site had been malfunctioning since 2007, 18 months prior to the collision, and WMATA has since found six other circuits within the system that have been behaving unusually. WMATA disabled each circuit that could not be immediately fixed and created an online circuit tracking system, similar to its elevator outage tracker.\n\nThe NTSB report on the accident was released on July 27, 2010, and blamed a faulty track circuit, part of the automatic train control system, for causing the crash. WMATA made a press release detailing changes on July 26 in anticipation of the release of the report.\n\nOn June 22, 2015, the sixth anniversary of the accident, the Legacy Memorial Park in honor of the victims was opened; ground was broken exactly one year previously by Mayor Vincent C. Gray. The park features a memorial wall and nine inscribed sculptures, one in honor of each person killed in the crash. The sculptures were created by sculptor Barbara Liotta, and the memorial was designed by the firm of Hunt Laudi; the design is titled \"A Sacred Grove\". Representatives of victims' families and city government officials attended the dedication, but Metro officials did not. The park is located at the entrance to Blair Memorial Gardens, which is close to the site of the collision.\n\nThe same week as the memorial dedication, the National Transportation Safety Board held hearings related to another fatal incident in the Metro system, one which happened earlier in 2015; the juxtaposition of the two events was noted by some commentators.\n\nOn the third anniversary of the crash, a plaque on the Charles Landley Bridge was unveiled. The bridge crosses the rail tracks at the site of the accident, and a makeshift memorial had been maintained there by victims' families. NTSB chairwoman Deborah Hersman attended the unveiling along with Mayor Gray. Another memorial plaque was also installed, by Metro officials, at Fort Totten station; it was subject to complaints from relatives of the dead, who claimed that it was insensitive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1354042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1354042", "title": "King Clone", "text": "King Clone\n\nKing Clone is thought to be the oldest creosote bush ring in the Mojave Desert. The ring is estimated to be 11,700 years old, making it one of the oldest living organisms on Earth. This single clonal colony plant of \"Larrea tridentata\" reaches up to in diameter, with an average diameter of .\n\nThe King Clone ring is on restricted-access public land in the central Mojave Desert, about 0.6 miles north of California Route 247 on Bessemer Mine Road near the towns of Lucerne Valley and Landers. It is within the Creosote Rings Preserve of the Lucerne Valley and Johnson Valley.\n\nKing Clone was identified and the age estimated by Frank Vasek, a professor at the University of California, Riverside. After Vasek hypothesized that the creosote ring was, in fact, one organism, Leonel da Silveira Lobo O'Reilly Sternberg (then a graduate student working in Vasek's lab), documented that plants within a ring had more similar characteristics, than those from other plant clusters. Vasek then used two methods to estimate the age of the ring. One method counted rings and measured the distance of annual growth, and the other used radiocarbon dating on pieces of wood found in the center of the ring, and measuring their distance from each other and the living bushes. The two dating methods yielded similar results (age about 11,700 years).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22624654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22624654", "title": "Lincoln Oak", "text": "Lincoln Oak\n\nThe Lincoln Oak was an oak tree in Bloomington, Illinois. Stephen A. Douglas and Abraham Lincoln both gave speeches at the tree during the 1850s. The original Lincoln Oak died in 1976.\n\nThe Lincoln Oak was an oak tree located in Bloomington, Illinois, that was the site of several speeches by Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas between 1855 and 1860 The tree was located in an area of Bloomington known as Dimmett's Grove when Lincoln and Douglas spoke there. In 1869, near the oak, the Vrooman Mansion was built. The house still overlooks the site of the Lincoln Oak today. The original Lincoln Oak died in 1976; in 1980 a new oak tree was planted in honor of the original Lincoln Oak.\n\nVachel Lindsay was the dedication speaker at a 1914 ceremony in which a plaque was affixed to the original Lincoln Oak. The plaque featured a quote from Adlai Stevenson I concerning the Lincoln Oak: I have heard Stephen A. Douglas and Abraham Lincoln at different times speak from a platform erected under the shade of this tree. This historic spot was then a part of Dimmett's Grove.\n\nIn 1966 the 32 foot by 32 foot parcel of the Vrooman Mansion lot containing the oak was deeded to the city of Bloomington. The plaque from the original oak is on display at the McLean County Historical Society. A leaf from the original Lincoln Oak tree is held in the Milburn Lincoln Wilson Abraham Lincoln Collection at Montana State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "30630669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30630669", "title": "List of Islamist terrorist attacks", "text": "List of Islamist terrorist attacks\n\nTerrorist attacks by Islamist extremists to further a perceived Islamist religious or political cause have occurred globally. The attackers have used such tactics as arson, vehicle rampage attacks, bomb threats, suicide attacks, bombings, spree shootings, stabbings, hijackings, kidnappings and beheadings. The following is a list of Islamist terrorist attacks that have received significant press coverage since the Iranian revolution in 1979.\n\n\nU.S. Government:\n\nNEWS:\n\nBooks with lists:\n\nBooks with additional resources:\n\nWeb sites/pages:\n"}
{"id": "23450328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23450328", "title": "Louis-Philippe Picard", "text": "Louis-Philippe Picard\n\nLouis-Philippe Picard (12 August 1899 – 22 May 1959) was a Liberal party member of the House of Commons of Canada. He was born in Rivière-du-Loup, Quebec and became an executive assistant, lawyer and reporter by career.\n\nPicard was educated at the Quebec Seminary where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1920. He then graduated from Université Laval in 1923 with a law degree and attended the Hague Academy of International Law. In 1924, he received his commission to practice law in Quebec. Picard was also a newspaper reporter of the court systems for \"L'Évenement\" and \"Le Soleil\".\n\nHe was first elected to Parliament at the Bellechasse riding in the 1940 general election then re-elected for successive terms in 1945, 1949 and 1953. In August 1955, Picard resigned during his term in the 22nd Canadian Parliament and accepted an appointment as Canada's ambassador to Argentina and served there until the following year.\n\nPicard died in Quebec City from coronary thrombosis on 22 May 1959.\n"}
{"id": "6017309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6017309", "title": "Manuel Abad y Queipo", "text": "Manuel Abad y Queipo\n\nManuel Abad y Queipo (August 26, 1751 – September 15, 1825) was a Spanish Roman Catholic Bishop of Michoacán in the Viceroyalty of New Spain at the time of the Mexican War of Independence. He was \"an acute social commentator of late colonial Mexico, ... an exemplification of the enlightened clergyman.\"\n\nBorn in Asturias in the 18th century, Manuel Abad y Queipo was born out of wedlock to an Asturian nobleman. He obtained his baccalaureate in law and canon law from the University of Salamanca. Thereafter he went to Guatemala with Bishop Monroy. In Guatemala he was ordained a priest. Beginning in 1784 he resided in Valladolid (now Morelia), where Bishop Antonio San Miguel made him a judge in a canon law court. In that position he gained considerable knowledge about church wealth in terms of capital and credit. In 1805 he obtained a doctorate in canon law from the University of Guadalajara. In 1810 he was nominated as Bishop-elect of Michoacan, but was never confirmed in the post. On the death of Bishop San Miguel, the Council of the Indies named him canon of the cathedral of Valladolid, a position which he held until 1815.\n\nIn 1807 he traveled to Spain to seek his habilitation, since his status as a child born out of wedlock prohibited his promotion to the higher levels of the ecclesiastical hierarchy. He returned to New Spain in the position of vicar general.\n\nIn 1810 the Regency (the Spanish government fighting the French invasion) named him bishop-elect of Michoacán. He took over the diocese before the arrival of the pontifical bull confirming his position. The pope did not approve his nomination, and thus the bull never arrived.\n\nAlthough born in Spain, Abad y Queipo felt at home in New Spain, saying he was \"an American by voluntary adoption.\" He had strong views about New Spain and its place within the Spanish empire, saying that the crown gave Mexico's indigenous equal rights with the conquering Spaniards and that Spain despite its decline had \"made the American possessions flourish until they were the envy of Europeans.\" He considered the decline of Spain could be attributed to emigration to the overseas territories. He critiqued economic inequality in New Spain, \"in America there is no graduation or middle ground: everyone is either rich or poverty stricken, noble or infamous\" leading to conflict.\n\nIn 1799 he wrote to King Charles IV a report entitled \"Representación al rey, sobre immunidades del clero\" (\"Description to the King, of the Immunities of the Clergy\"). In this document he outlined the social and political situation in New Spain and explained the symptoms of discontent. He proposed the general abolition of tribute levied on the indigenous; the free distribution of royal lands; agrarian land reform in Mexico that would permit poor people to obtain 20- or 30-year \"leases\" on uncultivated land belonging to the large landowners, but without paying rent; and the right to establish cotton and woolen mills.\n\nIn 1804 he opposed Godoy's \"Cédula de la Caja de Consolidación\". The Act of Consolidation sought to transfer wealth from the church to the crown by calling in all mortgages that were held by the church, which was a direct attack on the elite land holders in New Spain whose wealth was invested in haciendas and whose mortgages held by the church. This order was the equivalent of disentailment of the church because it ordered the transfer of income from the religious estates and foundations to the government, but its attack on the land holding elites' source of wealth did not shore up their loyalty to the crown. Abad y Queipo's memorial to the crown \"pointed out that the withdrawal of the vast loans of the Church would paralyze agriculture and business.\" In 1805 and 1807 he forwarded two other reports to the king.\n\nHis writings critiquing society in New Spain influenced Alexander von Humboldt, who spent a year in the viceroyalty 1803–04. Abad y Queipo presented Humboldt with his published writings when the cleric visited Paris in 1806. Humboldt's \"Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain\" was one of his first publications from his five-year sojourn to Spanish America and drew heavily on Abad's memorials. Humboldt took Abad y Queipo's argument about the low condition of Mexico's indigenous population as impeding progress in the viceroyalty, which Abad had first mentioned in a 1799 memorial to Bishop Antonio de San Miguel. Their multiple languages, ties to their home communities, collective land tenure which the crown had protected now were their chains preventing individual advancement. Although Abad y Queipo deplored the situation of the Indians, he did not blame them for it, viewing it not due to inherent racial or character flaws but to crown protectionism. Abad y Queipo drew on the writings of reformist Spaniard Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos's \"Informe de ley agraria\". He was also influenced by Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\" and drew on the writings of Montesquieu. The replication of Abad y Queipo's arguments in Humboldt's work doubtless gave them a larger audience than they previously garnered.\n\nThe Bourbon Reforms had resulted in the virtual exclusion of American-born Spanish men from attaining high office, and increased alienation between peninsular-born Spaniards and the American-born. Abad y Queipo recognized the \"criollos\"' resentment and suggested that the rift be softened by sending criollos to Spain for education and that the crown appoint elite criollos to high positions in the government in Spain, in the military and the Catholic Church, as well as allowing those in New Spain to be appointed to high office in Peru and vice versa. The increasing alienation of criollos from the Spanish crown flared into open rebellion in 1810 with the revolt of secular priest Miguel Hidalgo.\n\nAbad y Queipo had been friends with Hidalgo, who had come before the Inquisition. With the outbreak of violence led by Hidalgo in September 1810, Abad y Queipo himself came under suspicion and was denounced to the Inquisition by Fermín Peñalosa y Antón for his being \"delinquent in matters of faith.\" Abad y Queipo strongly and energetically opposed the violent movement for Mexican independence from Spain. This was perhaps due his belief that the economic and social progress he sought was threatened with destruction by movement led by his friend Hidalgo. Abad had also sought the friendship of members of the revolutionary juntas of Valladolid (now Morelia) and San Miguel el Grande (now San Miguel de Allende).\n\nOn 24 September 1810, Abad y Queipo published the decree excommunicating insurgents Hidalgo, Ignacio Allende, Juan Aldama, and Mariano Abasolo. Hidalgo's excommunication was for Hidalgo's having \"raised a standard of rebellion and seduced a number of innocent people,\" but it was for rebellion against the crown's authority not the Church's. The insurgents disputed the legality of the excommunication, based on the lack of papal approval of Abad y Queipo's appointment, which he disputed, and Archbishop Lizana confirmed the order of excommunication.\n\nThere were some prominent parish priests among the insurgents, most especially Hidalgo and José María Morelos. Abad y Queipo claimed in September 1812 that the majority of priests were loyal to the crown and few were insurgents, saying \"even among Jesus's disciples there was a Judas.\" Contemporaries, including Lucas Alamán and later scholars have emphasized priests' participation in the insurgency, and evidence shows that they participated in larger numbers than Abad y Queipo estimated, but in fewer numbers than contemporaries thought.\n\nIn 1815 Abad y Queipo sent another report to the king (Ferdinand VII now), denouncing the mistakes of Viceroy Félix María Calleja and the lack of prudence of Lardizábal, minister of the Indies. Ferdinand recalled Abad y Queipo to Spain since \"he was suspected of dangerous liberal views.\" He was eventually confirmed as bishop of Michoacan, but could not return to Mexico. Following Mexican independence in 1821, Abad y Queipo resigned that post and became bishop of Tortosa.\n\nHe obtained an interview with Ferdinand VII, who not only pardoned him, but named him Minister of Grace and Justice in the royal government. This occurred on 24 June 1816, but on 27 June the Inquisition brought its case again, accusing Abad y Queipo of being a friend of the insurgents, living an irreligious life, and holding revolutionary ideas. He was imprisoned two months in the jail of the Inquisition.\n\nThe Spanish revolution of 1820 in which the liberal Spanish Constitution of 1812 was restored and the crown becoming a constitutional monarchy again created a provisional junta and Abad y Queipo became a member of the provisional junta. He was charged with overseeing the conduct of King Ferdinand. Later he was a deputy to the Cortes for the province of Asturias. Even later he was named bishop of Tortosa, but once again the papal bull confirming his position did not arrive.\n\nIn 1824 came the absolutist reaction, after Ferdinand was again restored to the throne. Abad y Queipo was now old and deaf, but he was imprisoned again, this time in the monastery of Sisla, in Toledo. He died a prisoner in 1825.\n\nMany of his writings were published in \"Semanario Político y Literario\" (\"Political and Literary Seminar\") and in \"Observador de la República Mexicana\" (Observer of the Mexican Republic), the newspaper that José María Luis Mora edited. The \"Colección de escritos más importantes\" (\"Collection of the Most Important Writings\") was published in Mexico City in 1813. His \"Testamento político\" (\"Political Testament\") was published in the \"Historia\" of Lucas Alamán. An important collection of his writings is \"Colección de los escritos mas importantes que en diferentes épocas dirigió al gobierno D. Manual Abad Queipo, obispo electo de Michoacán\". Historian D.A. Brading notes that Abad y Queipo's writing are notable for \"the complete absence of any material dealing with religion.\" Humboldt read the writings of Abad y Queipo, and the bishop-elect's observations made their way into Humboldt's \"Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain\". Abad y Queipo's writings had a significant impact on Mexican liberalism in the post-independence period, with secular priest and liberal ideologue Mora reprinting important works, \"thereby ensuring their influence over the development of Mexican radicalism...Abad y Queipo is best regarded as the intellectual progenitor of Mexican Liberalism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9504379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9504379", "title": "Mass graves in Iraq", "text": "Mass graves in Iraq\n\nMass graves in Iraq have become well known since the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq toppled the regime of Saddam Hussein. International Experts estimated 300,000 victims could be in these mass graves alone. The mass graves mostly included the remains of Shia Muslims and ethnic Kurds killed for opposing the regime between 1983 and 1991, she said.\n\n\"PM admits graves claim 'untrue'\nDowning Street has admitted to The Observer that repeated claims by Tony Blair that '400,000 bodies had been found in Iraqi mass graves' is untrue, and only about 5,000 corpses have so far been uncovered.\nThe claims by Blair in November and December of last year, were given widespread credence, quoted by MPs and widely published, including in the introduction to a US government pamphlet on Iraq's mass graves\"\n\nSome of the information below is taken from Fact Sheet - Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor and Bureau of Public Affairs\n\nMass graves in Iraq are characterized as unmarked sites containing at least six bodies. Some can be identified by mounds of earth piled above the ground or as deep pits that appear to have been filled. Some older graves are more difficult to identify, having been covered by vegetation and debris over time. Sites have been discovered in all regions of the country and contain members of every major religious and ethnic group in Iraq as well as foreign nationals, including Kuwaitis and Saudis. Over 250 sites have been reported, of which approximately 40 have been confirmed to date. Over one million Iraqis are believed to be missing in Iraq as a result of executions, wars and defections, of whom hundreds of thousands are thought to be in mass graves. Most of the graves discovered to date correspond to one of five major atrocities perpetrated by the regime.\n\nAccording to Kurdistan Regional Government in Iraq, many mass graves in Kurdistan contain Iraqi Kurds, who were killed in a genocidal act just because of their ethnicity.\n\n\nFacts on the Fact Sheet appear to have been those gathered by US Senate committee investigations.\n\n\nThe recovery of corpses is reported to be slow due to local violence and the need for identification of corpses, isolation of remains, forensics, etc. Relatives have rushed to the graves in remembrance of missing relatives.\n\nThe 2014 film The Blue Man, which is related to The New York Times article titled \"Uncovering Iraq's Horrors in Desert Graves\" written by John F. Burns, is about The Blue Man mass grave located in Al-Mahawil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6974014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6974014", "title": "Mika Aaltonen", "text": "Mika Aaltonen\n\nMika Aaltonen (born 16 November 1965) is a Finnish former footballer. His position was an attacking central midfielder. He also played for the Finnish national team.\n\nDuring his career (1982–1994) he played in Finland, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, and Israel for TPS, Internazionale, Bellinzona, Bologna, Hertha BSC, Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C. and Tampereen Pallo-Veikot. He finished his career at a relatively young age because of a persistent ankle injury, and because of this, he ended up concentrating more on his studies. Aaltonen studied throughout his playing career, and after he retired from football, he earned a doctorate degree in economics.\n\nAaltonen is best remembered for a superb goal scored against Italian goalkeeper Walter Zenga in UEFA Cup in 1987 during a match between Turun Palloseura and Inter Milan at the San Siro stadium in Milan. This goal more or less earned him a transfer to Inter shortly afterwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "300468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300468", "title": "Monica Seles", "text": "Monica Seles\n\nMonica Seles (; , ; ; born December 2, 1973) is a retired American and Yugoslav professional tennis player, who last represented the United States and is also a member of the International Tennis Hall of Fame. An ethnic Hungarian, she was born and raised in Novi Sad, SFR Yugoslavia. She became a naturalized American citizen in 1994 and also received Hungarian citizenship in June 2007. A former world no. 1, she won nine Grand Slam singles titles, eight of them as a teenager while representing Yugoslavia, and the final one while representing the United States.\n\nIn 1990, Seles became the youngest ever French Open champion at the age of 16. She went on to win eight Grand Slam singles titles before her 20th birthday and was the year-end world no. 1 in 1991 and 1992. However, on April 30, 1993, she was the victim of an on-court attack, when a man stabbed her in the back with a long knife. Seles did not return to tennis for over two years. Though she enjoyed some success after rejoining the tour in 1995, including a fourth Australian Open title in 1996, she was unable to consistently reproduce her best form. She played her last professional match at the 2003 French Open, but did not officially retire until February 2008.\n\nRegarded by many in the sport as one of the greatest tennis players of all time, Seles was named one of the \"30 Legends of Women's Tennis: Past, Present and Future\" by \"Time\". Several players and historians have stated that Seles had the potential to become the most accomplished female player of all time had she not been stabbed. She was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 2009.\n\nSeles was born in Yugoslavia into an ethnic Hungarian family. Her parents are Ester and Karolj and she has an older brother, Zoltán. She began playing tennis at age five, coached by her father, a professional cartoonist employed for decades at the \"Dnevnik\" and \"Magyar Szó\" newspapers, who drew pictures for her to make her tennis more fun. He is responsible for developing her two-handed style for both the forehand and backhand. Later, her coach was Jelena Genčić. In 1985, at the age of 11, she won the Junior Orange Bowl tournament in Miami, Florida, catching the attention of tennis coach Nick Bollettieri. In early 1986, Seles and her brother Zoltán moved from Yugoslavia to the United States, and Seles enrolled at the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy, where she trained for two years and continued to practice until March 1990. Nine months after their arrival at the Academy, Seles' mother and father joined her and Zoltán in Florida.\n\nSeles played her first professional tournament as an amateur in 1988 at age 14. The following year she turned professional on February 13, 1989, and joined the professional tour full-time, winning her first career title at Houston in May 1989, where she beat the soon-to-retire Chris Evert in the final. A month later, Seles reached the semifinals of her first Grand Slam singles tournament at the French Open, losing to then-world no. 1 Steffi Graf. Seles finished her first year on the tour ranked world no. 6.\n\nAfter a slow start at the beginning of the season, Seles went on a 36-match winning streak and won 6 consecutive tournaments starting in Miami at the Lipton Player's Championships. During that winning streak she also won the U.S. Hard Court Championships (San Antonio, Texas), the Eckerd Open (Tampa, Florida), the Italian Open, and the Lufthansa Cup in Berlin, Germany (defeating Steffi Graf in the final in straight sets). Seles then won her first Grand Slam singles title at the 1990 French Open. Facing world no. 1 Steffi Graf in the final, Seles saved four set points in a first-set tiebreaker, which she won 8–6, and went on to take the match in straight sets. In doing so, she became the youngest-ever French Open singles Champion at the age of 16 years, 6 months. Her winning streak was stopped by Zina Garrison at Wimbledon in the quarterfinals, where Seles had a match point before Garrison eventually won 9–7 in the 3rd set. Seles then won the Virginia Slims of Los Angeles title against Martina Navratilova and then defeated Navratilova again in winning the Oakland California tournament, in straight sets. She also won the 1990 year-end Virginia Slims Championships, defeating Gabriela Sabatini in five sets (in the first five-set women's match since 1901 US National Championships), becoming the youngest to ever win the Season-Ending Championships. She finished the year ranked world no. 2.\n\n1991 was the first of two years in which Seles dominated the women's tour. She started out by winning the Australian Open in January, beating Jana Novotná in the final. In March, she replaced Graf as the world no. 1. She then successfully defended her French Open title, beating the former youngest-ever winner, Arantxa Sánchez Vicario, in the final. Unable to play at Wimbledon, suffering from shin splints, Seles took a six-week break. But she was back in time for the US Open, which she won by beating Martina Navratilova in the final, her third Grand Slam title of the year, to cement her position at the top of the world rankings. She also won the year-end Virginia Slims Championships for the second consecutive time, defeating Navratilova in four sets. At the end of season, Seles had won 10 out of the 16 tournaments she entered (reaching the final of every tournament that she entered that year). She ended the year as the no. 1 ranked player in the world.\n\n1992 was an equally dominant year. Seles successfully defended her titles at the Australian Open, the French Open, and the US Open. She also reached her first-ever final at Wimbledon, but lost to Graf. During Wimbledon, Seles encountered difficulty because of her habit of grunting or shrieking loudly when hitting shots. Her quarterfinal opponent Nathalie Tauziat was the first to complain to the chair umpire about it. During the third set of her semi-final match against Martina Navratilova, Navratilova also complained to the chair umpire about the grunting after Seles went up a break at 4–2. Seles ended up losing the game and the break, but broke back and closed out the match.\n\nFrom January 1991 through February 1993, Seles won 22 titles and reached 33 finals out of the 34 tournaments she played. She compiled a 159–12 win-loss record (92.9% winning percentage), including a 55–1 win-loss record (98%) in Grand Slam tournaments. In the broader context of her first four years on the circuit (1989–1992), Seles had a win-loss record of 231–25 (90.2%) and collected 30 titles. She once again ended the year as the #1 ranked player in the world.\n\nSeles was the top ranked women's player heading into 1993, having won the French Open for three consecutive years and both the US Open and Australian Open in consecutive years. In January 1993, Seles defeated Graf in the final of the Australian Open, which to date was her third win in four Grand Slam finals against Graf. She then won the Virginia Slims of Chicago over Martina Navratilova in three sets. This was the last title that Seles won before the attack in Hamburg, Germany.\n\nOn April 30 during a quarterfinal match with Magdalena Maleeva in Hamburg in which Seles was leading, Günter Parche, an obsessed fan of Steffi Graf, ran from the middle of the crowd to the edge of the court during a break between games and stabbed Seles with a boning knife between her shoulder blades, to a depth of 1.5 cm (0.59 inches). She was quickly taken to a hospital. Although her physical injuries took only a few weeks to heal, she did not return to competitive tennis for more than two years. Initially, there was speculation that the attack might have been politically motivated because Seles was from Yugoslavia. She was known to have received death threats in relation to the ongoing conflict there. However, German authorities were quick to rule this out, describing her attacker as confused and possibly mentally disturbed.\n\nParche was charged following the incident, but was not jailed because he was found to be psychologically abnormal, and was instead sentenced to two years' probation and psychological treatment. The incident prompted a significant increase in the level of security at tour events. At that year's Wimbledon, the players’ seats were positioned with their backs to the umpire's chair, rather than the spectators. Seles, however, disputed the effectiveness of these measures. She was quoted in 2011 as saying \"From the time I was stabbed, I think the security hasn't changed\". Seles vowed never to play tennis in Germany again, disenchanted by the German legal system. \"What people seem to be forgetting is that this man stabbed me intentionally and he did not serve any sort of punishment for it... I would not feel comfortable going back. I don't foresee that happening.\" In a later article, \"Tennis.com\" reported that Parche was living in nursing homes due to additional health problems.\n\nGraf visited Seles while she was hospitalized. Young Elders, a band from Melbourne, Australia, sent their song called \"Fly Monica Fly\" to Seles while she was recuperating from the stabbing incident. She later said that the song provided inspiration to her at that time, and subsequently met the band (who later changed their name to the Monicas) following her victory at the Australian Open in 1996. The stabbing incident is the subject of Dan Bern's 1998 tribute to Seles, \"Monica\". Additionally, American band Majesty Crush paid tribute with \"Seles\" from the 1993 album \"Love-15\".\n\nThe WTA suggested that Seles' No. 1 ranking be preserved during her absence, but did not do so. According to Seles' autobiography, all active tour players opposed the idea except Gabriela Sabatini, who abstained. A vote was held at a tournament in Rome in 1993, and of 17 of the top players – Graf did not participate in the tournament and was thus absent – only Sabatini abstained.\n\nSeles returned to the tour in August 1995. In the runup to her comeback, then-WTA president Martina Navratilova proposed that Seles be reinstated alongside Steffi Graf as joint number one. The WTA did so despite some opposition from players including Arantxa Sánchez Vicario and Gigi Fernández, whose tournament placements would suffer greatly by suddenly being placed behind Seles. Graf supported Seles' co-ranking, but not the additional proposal that Seles' co-ranking not be determined by the minimum participation of 12 tournaments a year required of everyone else. Graf felt that would give Seles an unfair advantage in the rankings. Seles won her first comeback tournament, the Canadian Open, beating Amanda Coetzer in the final and setting a tournament record for the fewest number of games dropped by the champion throughout the tournament (14).\n\nThe following month at the US Open, Seles reached the final defeating world No.10 Anke Huber, No. 4 Jana Novotná, and No. 3 Conchita Martínez (all in straight sets), but lost to Graf in the final.\n\nIn January 1996, Seles won her fourth Australian Open, beating Anke Huber in the final. Her pivotal match was the semifinal vs rising American star Chanda Rubin who led her 5–3 in the final set, and had 2 break points to lead 5–1. Seles came back from 2 points from defeat to triumph and reach the final. This was to be Seles' last Grand Slam title, as she struggled to recapture her best form on a consistent basis. Seles was the runner-up at the US Open to Steffi Graf again in 1996. Seles' last Grand Slam final came at the French Open in 1998, just a few weeks after the death of her father and former coach, Karolj, from cancer. In the run to the final she had defeated world no. 3 Jana Novotná in three sets and world no. 1 Martina Hingis in straight sets, but lost to Sánchez Vicario in the three-set final.\n\nWhile she did not reach another Grand Slam singles final, she did consistently reach the quarterfinal and semifinal stages in those tournaments and was a fixture in the WTA Tour's top 10. In 2002, her last full year on the tour, she finished the year ranked world no. 7, defeated Venus Williams, Martina Hingis, Jennifer Capriati, Justine Henin, Maria Sharapova, Kim Clijsters, and Lindsay Davenport, and reached at least the quarterfinals at each Grand Slam tournament.\n\nSeles competed at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, where she beat Sabatini in a third round match before losing to Jana Novotná in the quarterfinals. Four years later, at the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, Seles captured her first Olympic medal, a bronze in singles. She defeated Jelena Dokic in the bronze medal match, after pushing eventual gold medalist Venus Williams to a tough 3 setter in the semis, losing 6–3 in the final set.\n\nAfter becoming a U.S. citizen in 1994, Seles helped the U.S. team win the Fed Cup in 1996, 1999, and 2000.\n\nIn the spring of 2003, Seles sustained a foot injury. She was forced to withdraw during the second set of a match against Nadia Petrova at the Italian Open. Then, a couple of weeks later and still injured, she lost in straight sets to the same player in the first round of the 2003 French Open. It was the only time she ever lost a first-round match at a Grand Slam. She never again played an official tour match.\n\nIn February 2005, Seles played two exhibition matches in New Zealand against Navratilova. Despite losing both matches, she played competitively and announced that she could return to the game early in 2006; however, she did not do so. She played three exhibition matches against Navratilova in 2007. On April 5, she defeated Navratilova in Houston, Texas, on clay. On September 14, Seles defeated Navratilova on an indoor court in New Orleans, Louisiana. On September 16, she beat her on clay in Bucharest.\n\nIn December 2007, Seles told the press that Lindsay Davenport's successful return to the tour had inspired her to consider her own limited comeback to play Grand Slam tournaments and the major warm-up events for those tournaments. However, on February 14, 2008, Seles announced her official retirement from professional tennis.\n\nIn January 2009, Seles was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame.\n\nSeles is widely regarded as one of the greatest tennis players of all time. In 2012, Tennis Channel created a list of the 100 greatest tennis players. Seles was listed at #19.\n\nSeles won eight Grand Slam titles during her teenage years. However, her career was greatly affected by the stabbing incident. Some involved with the sport have declared that Seles could have become the most accomplished female player. In an article written 20 years after Seles was stabbed, Jonathan Scott of \"Tennis.com\" stated, \"Would Monica Seles have been the greatest female tennis player ever? The world will never know.\" In a 2013 interview, Martina Navratilova theorized that if Seles had not been stabbed, \"We'd be talking about Monica with the most Grand Slam titles [ahead of] Margaret Court or Steffi Graf.\" Mary Joe Fernandez declared that Seles would have at least doubled her Grand Slam championship tally, had she not been attacked. Tim Adams of \"The Guardian\" stated that Seles would have become \"the greatest female tennis player ever to pick up a racket.\"\n\nDuring the height of her career (the 1990 French Open through the 1993 Australian Open), she won eight of the 11 Grand Slam singles tournaments she contested. With eight Grand Slam singles titles before her 20th birthday, Seles holds the record for most Grand Slam singles titles won as a teenager in the Open Era.\n\nUntil her loss to Martina Hingis at the 1999 Australian Open, Seles had a perfect record at the event (33–0), which is the longest undefeated streak for this tournament (although Margaret Court won 38 consecutive matches there from 1960 to 1968 after losing a match in 1959). It also marked her first defeat in Australia, having won the Sydney tournament in 1996. Seles was the first female tennis player to win her first six Grand Slam singles finals: 1990 French Open, 1991 Australian Open, 1991 French Open, 1991 US Open, 1992 Australian Open, and 1992 French Open. Seles was also the first female player since Hilde Krahwinkel Sperling in 1937 to win the women's singles title three consecutive years at the French Open, a feat subsequently achieved by Justine Henin in 2005-7. (Also, Chris Evert won the title in four consecutive appearances in 1974, 1975, 1979, and 1980).\n\nShortly after her retirement, \"Sports Illustrated\" writer Jon Wertheim summed up her later career:\nShe was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame on July 11, 2009. In 2011, Seles was named one of the \"30 Legends of Women's Tennis: Past, Present and Future\" by \"Time\".\n\nIn the early 1990s, Seles signed a $4-million endorsement contract with Fila to promote its footwear and tennis apparel. She used a Prince original graphite racquet on court. In August of the 1990 season, Seles switched to a Yonex racquet.\n\nWhen she returned to the tour in 1995 after the stabbing sabbatical, Seles wore apparel by Nike and used a Yonex racquet on court.\n\nIn the 2000s, Seles wore apparel by Yonex and used Yonex SRQ Ti-800 Pro Long racquet on court.\n\nOn April 21, 2009, Seles released her memoir \"Getting A Grip: On My Body, My Mind, My Self\" which chronicles her bout with depression and binge eating disorder (BED) after her stabbing, her father's cancer diagnosis and eventual death, her journey back to the game and a life beyond tennis.\n\nSeles is married to businessman Tom Golisano, who is 32 years her senior. They began dating in 2009. The two announced their engagement on June 5, 2014.\n\nAs of 2015, Seles is a paid spokesperson for Shire Pharmaceuticals, the makers of the first drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat BED, to raise awareness of the disorder she has suffered from since she was a young adult. Seles would eat normal amounts of food at meals, and then secretly eat large amounts of junk food when she was alone.\n\nIn 1996, Seles made a guest appearance in the TV sitcom \"The Nanny\". She also appeared in 2008 in the TV series \"Dancing with the Stars\" as one of the contestants.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8562786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8562786", "title": "Nasciturus pro iam nato habetur, quotiens de commodis eius agitur", "text": "Nasciturus pro iam nato habetur, quotiens de commodis eius agitur\n\n\"Nasciturus pro iam nato habetur, quotiens de commodis eius agitur\" is a Latin legal maxim that refers to a law that grants or protects the right of a foetus to inherit property. The maxim translates to: \"The unborn is deemed to have been born to the extent that his own benefits are concerned\". \"Nasciturus\" literally translates to \"one who is to be born\" and refers to a conceived foetus, i. e., a living child who has not yet been born. Pursuant to this legal principle, the foetus is presumed to have been born for the purposes of inheritance. The principle was reified in Roman law and continues to be implemented today in most European nations, in the Americas (where the foetus is sometimes legally considered to be a person), and in South Africa.\n\nWhen considered a legal exception, it is thought to apply exclusively for the purposes of inheritance and that conditions must be satisfied for it to be valid, primarily that the foetus has to be born.\n\nNotable cases of the application of the maxim include King John I of France, the short-lived, posthumous son of King Louis X, who inherited the throne of France \"in utero\" and, upon birth, reigned for the 5 days of his post-natal life. Similarly, when Queen Victoria inherited the British throne, her proclamation of accession specified that she inherited it \"saving the rights of any issue of his late Majesty King William IV, which may be born of his late Majesty's consort\" Queen Adelaide, because any such unborn progeny would have had a prior claim to the throne; had there been such progeny born subsequent to the accession of Queen Victoria, he would have \"ipso facto\" displaced Victoria as British monarch.\n\n"}
{"id": "20757365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20757365", "title": "Offences Against the Person Act 1837", "text": "Offences Against the Person Act 1837\n\nThe Offences Against the Person Act 1837 (7 Will.4 & 1 Vict. c.85) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. It reformed the law relating to offences against the person.\n\nIt repealed a number of offences under the Offences Against the Person Act 1828 and the corresponding Irish Act (10 Geo.4 c.34) and re-enacted them in different terms.\n\nSection 4 replaced section 12 of the 1828 Act and abolished the death penalty for shooting, stabbing, cutting or wounding with intent. \n\nSection 6 replaced section 13 of the 1828 Act and abolished the death penalty for post-quickening abortions. Unlike the previous Act, this provision made no distinction between pre- and post- quickening abortions.\n\nThe Act has been wholly replaced by the Offences against the Person Act 1861.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "503314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503314", "title": "Peter Graves", "text": "Peter Graves\n\nPeter Graves (born Peter Duesler Aurness; March 18, 1926 – March 14, 2010) was an American film and television actor. He was best known for his role as Jim Phelps in the CBS television series \"\" from 1967 to 1973 (original) and from 1988 to 1990 (revival). His elder brother was actor James Arness (1923–2011). Graves was also known for his portrayal of airplane pilot Captain Clarence Oveur in the 1980 comedy film \"Airplane!\" and its 1982 sequel \"\".\n\nPeter Graves was born Peter Duesler Aurness on March 18, 1926, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of Rolf Cirkler Aurness (1894–1982), a businessman, and his wife Ruth (née Duesler, died 1986), a journalist. Graves' ancestry was Norwegian, German, and English. Peter used the stage name \"Graves\", a maternal family name, to honor his mother's family, and also so as to not be confused with his older brother, James Arness, the star of the television series \"Gunsmoke\".\n\nGraves graduated from Southwest High School in 1944. He served in the United States Army Air Forces during World War II reaching the rank of corporal. After demobilisation, Graves enrolled at the University of Minnesota on the G.I. Bill, and was a member of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity.\n\nGraves appeared in more than 70 films, television shows, and television movies during his career. In 1955, Graves joined the NBC television series \"Fury\", as the rancher and adoptive single father, Jim Newton. Graves also was featured in the 1953 World War II film, \"Stalag 17\".\nFrom 1960 to 1961, Graves starred as leading character Christopher Cobb in 34 episodes of the TV series \"Whiplash\". In the storyline, Cobb is an American who arrives in Australia in the 1850s to establish the country's first stagecoach line, using a bullwhip rather than a gun to fight the crooks he encounters. The series also starred Anthony Wickert. Graves also starred in the British ITC series \"Court Martial\", playing U.S. Army lawyer Major Frank Whittaker (one of the series' two American leads starring opposite Bradford Dillman's Captain David Young), as well as guest roles in such series as \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\", \"Cimarron City\", \"Route 66\", and \"The Invaders\",(episode \"Moonshot\"). In 1967, Graves was recruited by Desilu Studios to replace Steven Hill as the lead actor on \"\". Graves portrayed the iconic character of James Phelps, the sometimes-gruff director of the Impossible Missions Force, for the six following seasons of the series. After the series ended in 1973, Graves played a cameo-type support role in the feature film \"Sidecar Racers\" in Australia which was released in 1975. Graves also made a guest appearance in the teen soap opera \"Class of 74\" in mid-1974, playing himself.\n\nGraves was cast as Palmer Kirby in the 1983 ABC miniseries, \"The Winds of War\". He played opposite Robert Mitchum, Jan Michael Vincent, Deborah Winters and Ali MacGraw in what became in 1983, the second-most watched miniseries of all time (after \"Roots)\". During this time, he became the host of PBS' \"\", based on Discover Magazine.\n\nAfter playing mainly serious roles in the 1970s, he appeared as Captain Clarence Oveur in the early 1980s comedies \"Airplane!\" and \"Airplane II: The Sequel\".\n\nIn 1988, a Hollywood writers' strike resulted in a being commissioned. Graves was the only cast member from the original series to return as a regular, reprising his role as James Phelps, though others (most notably Greg Morris, whose son Phil was a regular in this version) made guest appearances. The series was filmed in Australia, and Graves made his third journey there for acting work. The new version of \"Mission: Impossible\" lasted for two seasons, ending in 1990. Bookending his work on \"Mission: Impossible\", Graves starred in two pilot films called \"Call to Danger\", which were an attempt to create a \"Mission: Impossible\"–style series in which Graves played a government agent (the Bureau of National Resources) who recruited civilians with special talents for secret missions.\n\nThe 1960s version of the pilot, according to Patrick White in \"The Complete Mission: Impossible Dossier\" (which White reports was actually the second such pilot, but Graves was not involved in the first), is credited with winning Graves the role of Phelps; after \"Mission: Impossible\" ended in 1973, Graves filmed a third version of the pilot (this one structured as a made-for-TV movie), but it did not sell as a series. The concept was later used in the brief 1980s adventure series \"Masquerade\".\n\nDuring the 1990s, he hosted and narrated the documentary series \"Biography\" on A&E. He also acted in a number of films featured on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\", which subsequently featured running jokes about Graves's \"Biography\" work and presumed sibling rivalry with Arness. The films that have been featured on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" include \"\", \"It Conquered the World\", \"Beginning of the End\", and \"\". The film \"Killers from Space\" was featured in \"The Film Crew\", Michael J. Nelson's follow-up to \"MST3K\". Graves himself parodied his \"Biography\" work in the film \"Men in Black II\", hosting an exposé television show. He also played Colonel John Camden on the television series \"7th Heaven\".\n\nGraves refused to reprise the role of Jim Phelps (played by Jon Voight) in the update of \"Mission: Impossible\", after the character was revealed to be a traitor and the villain of the film. In the film, Phelps murders three fellow IMF agents, and is killed in a helicopter crash at the end, a decision that disappointed Graves and fellow cast members, and upset many fans of the original series.\n\nOn October 30, 2009, Graves was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6667 Hollywood Blvd.\n\nAirTran Airways featured Graves in a series of web-only \"Internetiquette\" videos in 2009 in which Graves appeared in a pilot's uniform and references classic \"Airplane!\" lines. The videos were part of an AirTran Airways campaign to promote their in-flight wireless Internet access.\n\nIn the summer of 2009, Graves signed on as a spokesman for reverse mortgage lender American Advisors Group. Graves' final project was narrating the computer game epic \"\", released November 5, 2010.\n\nGraves was a devout Christian. He was married to Joan Endress Graves for 60 years from 1950 until his death.\n\nOn March 6, 1984, Graves was hospitalized at Tahoe Forest Hospital for a fractured jaw among other injuries sustained from a fall on icy Lake Tahoe road the previous weekend, Graves receiving 100 stitches to his lower lip during his stay.\n\nAfter returning from a brunch on March 14, 2010, Graves collapsed and died of a heart attack, four days before his 84th birthday.\n\nGraves was awarded a Golden Globe Award in 1971 for his role as Jim Phelps in the series \"Mission: Impossible\". He also received nominations for an Emmy Award and Golden Globe awards in other seasons of that show. Graves also won a Primetime Emmy Award for outstanding informational series in 1997 as host of \"Biography\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48685", "title": "Quantum suicide and immortality", "text": "Quantum suicide and immortality\n\nIn quantum mechanics, quantum suicide is a thought experiment, originally published independently by Hans Moravec in 1987 and Bruno Marchal in 1988 and independently developed further by Max Tegmark in 1998. It attempts to distinguish between the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics and the Everett many-worlds interpretation by means of a variation of the Schrödinger's cat thought experiment, from the cat's point of view. Quantum immortality refers to the subjective experience of surviving quantum suicide regardless of the odds.\n\nKeith Lynch recalls that Hugh Everett took great delight in paradoxes such as the unexpected hanging. Everett did not mention quantum suicide or quantum immortality in writing, but his work was intended as a solution to the paradoxes of quantum mechanics. Lynch said \"Everett firmly believed that his many-worlds theory guaranteed him immortality: his consciousness, he argued, is bound at each branching to follow whatever path does not lead to death\"; Tegmark explains, however, that life and death situations do not normally hinge upon a sequence of binary quantum events like those in the thought experiment.\n\nThe quantum suicide thought experiment involves the same apparatus as Schrödinger's cat – a box which kills the occupant in a given time frame with probability one half due to quantum uncertainty. The only difference is to have the experimenter recording observations be the one inside the box. The significance of this is that someone whose life or death depends on a qubit can distinguish between interpretations of quantum mechanics. By definition, fixed observers cannot.\n\nAt the start of the first iteration, under both interpretations, the probability of surviving the experiment is 50%, as given by the squared norm of the wave function. At the start of the second iteration, assuming the Copenhagen interpretation is true, the wave function has already collapsed; thus, since the experimenter is already dead, there is a 0% chance of survival for any further iterations. However, if the many-worlds interpretation is true, a superposition of the live experimenter \"necessarily\" exists (as also does the one who dies). Now, barring the possibility of life after death, after every iteration only one of the two experimenter superpositions – the live one – is capable of having any sort of conscious experience. Putting aside the philosophical problems associated with individual identity and its persistence, we may assert that, under the many-worlds interpretation, the experimenter, or at least a version of them, continues to exist through all of their superpositions where the outcome of the experiment is that they live. In other words, we may say that a version of the experimenter survives all iterations of the experiment, whichever its number. Since the superpositions where the experimenter lives occur by quantum necessity (again, under the many-worlds interpretation), it follows that their survival, after any realizable number of iterations, is physically necessary; hence, the notion of quantum \"immortality\".\n\nA version of the experimenter surviving stands in stark contrast to the implications of the Copenhagen interpretation, according to which, although the survival outcome is possible in every iteration, its probability tends towards zero as the number of iterations increases. Due to the many-worlds interpretation, the above scenario has the opposite property: the probability of a version of the experimenter living is necessarily one for any number of iterations.\n\nIn response to questions about \"subjective immortality\", Max Tegmark made some brief comments: He acknowledged the argument that \"everyone will be immortal\" may follow if a survivor outcome is possible for all life-threatening events. The flaw in that argument, he suggests, is that dying is rarely a binary event; it is a progressive process. The quantum suicide thought experiment attempts to isolate all possible outcomes for the duration of the thought experiment. That isolation delays decoherence in such a way that the subjective experience of the superposition is illustrated. It is only within the confines of such an abstract quantum scenario that an observer finds they defy all odds.\n\nPhysicist David Deutsch, though a proponent of the MWI, states regarding quantum suicide that \"that way of applying probabilities does not follow directly from quantum theory, as the usual one does. It requires an additional assumption, namely that when making decisions one should ignore the histories in which the decision-maker is absent...[M]y guess is that the assumption is false.\"\n\nTegmark also believes experimenters will only expect a normal probability of survival, not immortality. The experimenter's probability amplitude in the wavefunction decreases significantly, meaning they exist with a much lower measure than they had before. Per the anthropic principle, a person is less likely to find themselves in a world where they are less likely to exist, that is, a world with a lower measure has a lower probability of being observed. Therefore, the experimenter will have a lower probability of observing a world in which they survive than the world in which they set up the experiment. This same problem of reduced measure was pointed out by Lev Vaidman in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18861519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18861519", "title": "Redress (charitable organisation)", "text": "Redress (charitable organisation)\n\nRedress, or The Redress Trust is a human rights organisation based in London, England, that helps survivors of torture to obtain justice and reparation, in the form of compensation, rehabilitation, official acknowledgement of the wrong and formal apologies. In addition Redress seek accountability for those who have been tortured.\n\nRedress provides legal and related support in obtaining legal reparations, promote survivors' rights in international and regional courts and tribunals and promotes survivors’ rights in national policy and practice contexts in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2008 Redress was addressing torture and related crimes in more than 50 countries in all regions or the world and having over 50 active case files relating to more than 957 survivors.\n\nRedress was founded in 1992 by Keith Carmichael, a British torture survivor who sought justice for how he had been treated while a prisoner in Saudi Arabia from November 1981 until March 1984. After his release, Carmichael found that while the existing non-governmental organizations advocated for the release of prisoners, provided medical attention, and operated safe havens, none existed to seek reparations under international law. Redress was founded to fill that gap.\n\n\nRedress pursues its mission through legal assistance and advice to torture survivors, their families and communities, sharing information and support in partnership with other organizations around the world and advocacy by providing information to governments, other organizations and the media.\n\nRedress is supported by the United Nations, the European Commission, Oxfam, the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust, UK Department for International Development DFID, Bromley Trust, John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Oak Foundation, City Parochial Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261105", "title": "Roadkill", "text": "Roadkill\n\nRoadkill refers to an animal or animals that have been struck and killed by motor vehicles on highways. It is important because of the animal suffering, loss of wild animals, road safety, and the economic impact on both drivers and road management. For this reason it has increasingly become the topic of academic research to understand the causes, and how it can be mitigated. Some roadkill can also be eaten.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, roadkill or \"flat meats\" (or \"highway pizza\") became a common sight in most industrialized First World nations, as they adopted the internal combustion engine and the automobile. One of the earliest observers of roadkill was the naturalist Joseph Grinnell, who noted in 1920: \"This [roadkill] is a relatively new source of fatality; and if one were to estimate the entire mileage of such roads in the state [California], the mortality must mount into the hundreds and perhaps thousands every 24 hours.\" \n\nIn Europe and North America, deer are the animal most likely to cause vehicle damage. In Australia, specific actions taken to protect against the variety of animals that can damage vehicles – such as bullbars (usually known in Australia as 'roo bars', in reference to kangaroos) – indicate the Australian experience has some unique features with road kill.\nThe development of roads affects wildlife by altering and isolating habitat and populations, deterring the movement of wildlife, and resulting in extensive wildlife mortality. One writer states that \"our insulated industrialized culture keeps us disconnected from life beyond our windshields.\" Driving \"mindlessly\" without paying attention to the movements of others in the vehicle's path, driving at speeds that do not allow stopping, and distractions contribute to the death toll. Moreover, a culture of indifference and hopelessness is created if people learn to ignore lifeless bodies on roads.\n\nA study in Ontario, Canada in 1996 found many reptile killed on portions of the road where vehicle tires do not usually pass over, which led to the inference that some drivers intentionally run over reptiles. To verify this hypothesis, research in 2007 found that 2.7% of drivers intentionally hit reptile decoys masquerading as snakes and turtles. \"Indeed, several drivers were observed speeding up and positioning their vehicles to hit the reptiles\". Male drivers hit the reptile decoys more often than female drivers. On a more compassionate note, 3.4% of male drivers and 3% of female drivers stopped to rescue the reptile decoys.\n\nOn roadways where rumble strips are installed to provide a tactile vibration alerting drivers when drifting from their lane, the rumble strips may accumulate road salt in regions where it is used. The excess salt can accumulate and attract both small and large wildlife in search of salt licks; these animals are at great risk of becoming roadkill or causing accidents.\n\nVery large numbers of mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians and invertebrates are killed on the world's roads every day. The number of animals killed in the United States has been estimated at a million per day.\n\nAbout 350,000 to 27 million birds are estimated to be killed on European roads each year.\n\nMortality resulting from roadkill can be very significant for species with small populations. Roadkill is estimated to be responsible for 50% of deaths of Florida panthers, and is the largest cause of badger deaths in England. Roadkill is considered to significantly contribute to the population decline of many threatened species, including wolf, koala and eastern quoll. In Tasmania, Australia the most common species affected by roadkill are brushtail possums and Tasmanian pademelons.\nIn 1993, 25 schools throughout New England, United States participated in a roadkill study involving 1,923 animal deaths. By category, the fatalities were: 81% mammals, 15% bird, 3% reptiles and amphibians, 1% indiscernible. Extrapolating these data nationwide, Merritt Clifton (editor of \"Animal People Newspaper\") estimated that the following animals are being killed by motor vehicles in the United States annually: 41 million squirrels, 26 million cats, 22 million rats, 19 million opossums, 15 million raccoons, 6 million dogs, and 350,000 deer. This study may not have considered differences in observability between taxa (e.g. dead raccoons are easier to see than dead frogs), and has not been published in peer-reviewed scientific literature.\n\nA recent study showed that insects, too, are prone to a very high risk of roadkill incidence. Research showed interesting patterns in insect roadkills in relation to the vehicle density.\n\nIn 2003-2004, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds investigated anecdotal reports of declining insect populations in the UK by asking drivers to affix a postcard-sized PVC rectangle, called a \"splatometer\", to the front of their cars. Almost 40,000 drivers took part, and the results found one squashed insect for every driven. This contrasts with 30 years ago when cars were covered more completely with insects, supporting the idea that insect numbers had waned.\n\nIn 2011, Dutch biologist Arnold van Vliet coordinated a similar study of insect deaths on car license plates. He found two insects killed on the license-plate area for every driven. This implies about 1.6 trillion insect deaths by cars per year in the Netherlands, and about 32.5 trillion deaths in the United States if the figures are extrapolated there.\n\nOne rarely considered positive aspect of roadkill is the regular availability of carrion it provides for scavenger species such as vultures, crows, foxes, Virginia opossums and a wide variety of carnivorous insects. Areas with robust scavenger populations tend to see roadkilled animal corpses being quickly carried off, sometimes within minutes of being struck. This can skew data and cause a lower estimation of the number of roadkill animals per year. In particularly roadkill-prone areas, some scavenging birds can rely on roadkill for much of their daily nutritional requirements, and can often be seen observing the roadway from telephone poles and trees, waiting for small animals to be struck so they can swoop down and feed. However, such scavengers are at greater risk of becoming roadkill themselves, and are subject to evolutionary pressure to be alert to traffic hazards.\n\nIn contrast, areas where scavengers have been driven out (such as many urban areas) often see roadkill rotting in place indefinitely on the roadways and being further macerated by traffic. The remains must be manually removed by dedicated disposal personnel and disposed of via sanitary cremation; this greatly increases the public nuisance inherent to roadkill, unnecessarily complicates its disposal, and consumes additional public money, time and fuel that could be spent on other roadway maintenance projects.\n\nThe study of roadkill has proven highly amenable to the application of citizen science observation methods. Since 2009, statewide roadkill observation systems have been started in the US, enrolling hundreds of observers in reporting roadkill on a website. The observers, who are usually naturalists or professional scientists, provide identification, location, and other information about the observations. The data are then displayed on a website for easy visualization and made available for studies of proximate causes of roadkill, actual wildlife distributions, wildlife movement, and other studies. Roadkill observation system websites are available for the US states of California, Maine, and Idaho. In each case, index roads are used to help quantify total impact of vehicle collisions on specific vertebrate taxa.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, ‘Project Splatter’ was started by Cardiff University in 2012, with the aim of estimating the impact of roads and motoring on British wildlife. Since then it has gathered data on its website, and on several social media platforms including Facebook and Twitter.\n\nIn India,(PATH) 'Provide Animals safe Transit on Highways' was initiated by Environment Conservation Group in 2015, to study the impact of roads on Indian wildlife. A team of five wildlife conservationists led by Mr. R. Mohammed Saleem, had undertaken a forty-four-day expedition, traveling more than 17,000 kilometers across 22 states to study and spread awareness on roadkill. It is also gathering data on its website, and social media platforms \n\nThe first wildlife roadkill identification guide produced by a state agency in North America was published by the British Columbia Ministry of Transportation (BCMoT) in Canada in 2008. BCMoT’s \"Wildlife Roadkill Identification Guide\" focused on the most common large carnivores and ungulates found in British Columbia. The guide was developed to assist BCMoT's maintenance contractors in identifying wildlife carcasses found on provincial highways as part of their responsibilities for BCMoT’s Wildlife Accident Reporting System (WARS).\n\nCollisions with animals can have many negative consequences:\n\nRegardless of the spatial scale at which the mitigation measure is applied, there are two main types of roadkill mitigation measures: changing driver behavior, and changing wildlife behavior.\n\nThere are three potential ways to change driver behavior. Primary methods focus on changing driver attitude by increasing public awareness and helping people understand that reducing roadkill will benefit their community. The second potential way is to make people aware of specific hazardous areas by use of signage, rumble strips or lighting. The third potential way is to slow traffic physically or psychologically, using chicanes or speed bumps.\n\nThere are three categories of altering wildlife behavior. Primary methods discourage wildlife from loitering on roadsides by reducing food and water resources, or by making the road surfaces lighter in color which may make wildlife feel more exposed on the roadway. Second are methods of discouraging wildlife from crossing roads, at least when cars are present, using equipment such as ultrasonic whistles, reflectors, and fencing. Third are mechanisms to provide safe crossing like overpass, underpasses and escape routes.\n\nIn the US, an estimated 1.25 million insurance claims are filed annually due to collisions with deer, elk, or moose, amounting to 1 out of 169 collision damage claims.\n\nCollisions with large animals with antlers (such as deer) are particularly dangerous, as the animal's head has a tendency to separate and come through the windshield, but any large, long-legged animal (e.g. horses, larger cattle, camels) can pose a similar cabin incursion hazard. Injury to humans due to driver failure to maintain control of a vehicle either while avoiding, or during and immediately after an animal impact, is also common. Dusk and dawn are times of highest collision risk.\n\nThe recommended reaction to a large animal (such as a moose) is to slow down in lane, if at all possible, and to avoid swerving suddenly, which could cause loss of control. If a collision cannot be avoided, it is best to swerve towards the rear end of the animal, as it is more likely to run forward. Drivers who see a deer near or in the roadway should be aware that it is very likely that other members of a herd are nearby.\n\nAcoustic warning deer horns can be mounted on vehicles to warn deer of approaching automobiles, though their effectiveness is disputed. Ultrasonic wind-driven whistles are often promoted as a cheap, simple way to reduce the chance of wildlife-vehicle collisions. In one study, the sound pressure level of the whistle was 3 dB above the sound pressure level of the test vehicle, but caused no observable difference in behavior of animals when the whistles were activated and not activated, casting doubt on their effectiveness.\n\nIn regions where squirrels, rabbits, birds, or other small animals are plentiful, a tire-flattened one is a common sight on roadways. Motorists have caused serious accidents by trying to swerve or stop to avoid a squirrel in the road. Such evasive maneuvers are pointless, since small rodents and birds are much more agile and have much quicker reaction times than motorists in heavy vehicles. There is very little a driver can do to avoid an unpredictably darting squirrel or rabbit, or even to intentionally hit one. The suggested course of action is to continue driving in a predictable, safe manner, and let the small animal decide on the spur of the moment which way to run or fly; the majority of vehicular encounters end with no harm to either party.\n\nAlthough strikes can happen at any time of day, deer tend to move at dawn and dusk, and are particularly active during the October–December mating season, and also during late March and early April, in the Northern Hemisphere. Driving at night presents its own challenges: nocturnal species are active, and visibility, particularly side visibility, is reduced. Penguins, for example, are common roadkill traffic victims in Wellington, New Zealand, due to their skin color and the fact that they come ashore at dusk and leave again around dawn, making it hard for drivers to see them.\n\nNight time drivers should reduce speed and use high beam headlights when possible, to give themselves maximum time to avoid a collision. However, when headlights approach a nocturnal animal, it is hard for the creature to see the approaching car (nocturnal animals see better in low than in bright light). Furthermore, the glare of oncoming vehicle headlights can dazzle some species, such as rabbits; they will freeze in the road rather than flee. It may be better to flash the headlights on and off, rather than leaving them on continuously while approaching an animal.\n\nThe simple tactics of reducing speed and scanning both sides of the road for foraging deer can improve driver safety at night, and drivers may see the retro-reflection of an animal’s eyes before seeing the animal itself.\n\nWildlife crossings allow animals to travel over or underneath roads. They are most widely used in Europe, but have also been installed in a few US locations and in parts of Western Canada. As new highways cause habitats to become increasingly fragmented, these crossings could play an important role in protecting endangered species.\n\nIn the US, sections of road known to have heavy deer cross-traffic will usually have a warning sign depicting a bounding deer; similar signs exist for moose, elk, and other species. In the American West, roads may pass through large areas designated as \"open range\", meaning no fences separate drivers from large animals such as cattle or bison. A driver may round a bend to find a small herd standing in the road. Open range areas are generally marked with signage and protected by a cattle guard.\n\nIn an attempt to mitigate US$1.2 billion in animal-related vehicular damage, a few US states now have sophisticated systems to protect motorists from large animals. One of these systems is called the Roadway Animal Detection System (RADS). A solar powered sensor can detect large animals such as deer, bear, elk, and moose near the roadway, and thereafter flash a light to alert oncoming drivers. The sensor's detection distance ranges from 650 feet to unlimited, depending on the terrain.\n\nThe removal of trees associated with road construction produces a gap in the forest canopy that forces arboreal (tree dwelling) species to come to the ground to travel across the gap. Canopy crossings have been constructed for red squirrels in Great Britain, colobus monkeys in Kenya, and ringtail possums in Far North Queensland, Australia. The crossings have two purposes: to ensure that roads do not restrict movement of animals and also to reduce roadkill. Installation of the canopy crossings may be relatively quick and cheap.\n\nBanks, cuttings and fences that trap animals on the road are associated with roadkill. In order to increase the likelihood of escape from a main roadway, escape routes have been constructed on the access roads. Escape routes may be considered as one of the most useful measures, especially when new roads are being built or roads are being upgraded, widened or sealed. Research may be undertaken into the efficacy of escape routes by observations of animals’ response to vehicles in places with natural escape routes and barriers, rather than trialing purpose-built escape routes.\n\nIn the New Forest, in southern England, there is a proposal to fence roads to protect the New Forest pony. However, this proposal is controversial.\n\nRemoving animal carcasses from roadways is considered essential to public safety. The removal takes away the potential distraction and hazard of the carcass to other motorists. Quick removal can also prevent deaths of other animals that may wish to feed on the carcass, as well as animals that may go into the road to try to move the body of an animal in their social group. Sometimes rather than removal, the carcass is moved to a nearby public right-of-way where it can be enjoyed by wildlife; but not placed in a ditch or where waterways might be polluted. Covering the carcass with wood chips can aid in decomposition while minimizing odor.\n\nLocal governments and other levels of government have services that pick up dead animals from roadways, who will respond when advised about a dead animal.\n\nNew York City has an online request form which may be completed by residents of the city. New York State has a process to report dead wildlife to the Department of Environmental Conservation; they are especially interested in marked/tagged wildlife and endangered or threatened species.\n\nIn Toronto, Canada, the city accepts requests to remove a dead animal by telephone. If an animal is found along a major highway, depending on who has jurisdiction for maintaining the highway, the request may be directed to the City, the provincial Ministry of Transportation, or a highway operations centre. In Ontario, citizens may keep possession of roadkill in many circumstances, but may have to register their find.\n\nRoadkill can be eaten, and there are several recipe books dedicated to roadkill. The practice of eating animals killed on the road is often derided, and some people consider it not to be safe, sanitary, or wholesome. For example, when the Tennessee legislature attempted to legalize the use of accidentally killed animals, they became the subject of stereotyping and derisive humor. Nevertheless, in some cultures there is tradition of using fresh roadkill as a nutritious and economical source of meat similar to that obtained by hunting.\n\nSongwriter and performer Loudon Wainwright III released his deadpan humorous song, \"Dead Skunk (in the Middle of the Road)\" in 1972, and it peaked at number 16 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nThe American band Phish frequently plays the song \"Possum\", originally from its album The Man Who Stepped into Yesterday, at its concerts. The song describes an encounter with a roadkilled opossum and includes the lyric, \"Your end is the road.\"\n\nRoadkill is sometimes used as an art form. Several artists use traditional taxidermy preparation in their works whilst others explore different artforms. International artist Claudia Terstappen photographs roadkill and produces enormous prints which see the animals floating eerily in a void. American artist Gary Michael Keyes photographs and transforms them into \"RoadKill Totems\" in his \"Resurrection Gallery\". Roadkill as art is not new, American artist Stephen Paternite has been exhibiting roadkill pieces since the 1970s.\n\nCanadian writer Timothy Findley wrote about the experience of seeing killed animals on highways during travels: \"The dead by the road, or on it, testify to the presence of man. Their little gestures of pain—paws, wings and tails—are the saddest, the loneliest, most forlorn postures of the dead I can imagine. When we have stopped killing animals as though they were so much refuse, we will stop killing one another. But the highways show our indifference to death, so long as it is someone else's. It is an attitude of the human mind I do not grasp.\"\n\nThere are driving video games where players can run over animals, such as the arcade version of \"Cruis'n USA\", as well as video games where players control an animal that crosses roads to avoid becoming roadkill, such as \"Frogger\" and \"Crossy Road\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3907256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3907256", "title": "Seed dormancy", "text": "Seed dormancy\n\nA dormant seed is one that is unable to germinate in a specified period of time under a combination of environmental factors that are normally suitable for the germination of the non-dormant seed. Dormancy is a mechanism to prevent germination during unsuitable ecological conditions, when the probability of seedling survival is low.\n\nOne important function of most seeds is delayed germination, which allows time for dispersal and prevents germination of all the seeds at the same time. The staggering of germination safeguards some seeds and seedlings from suffering damage or death from short periods of bad weather or from transient herbivores; it also allows some seeds to germinate when competition from other plants for light and water might be less intense. Another form of delayed seed germination is seed quiescence, which is different from true seed dormancy and occurs when a seed fails to germinate because the external environmental conditions are too dry or warm or cold for germination. Many species of plants have seeds that delay germination for many months or years, and some seeds can remain in the soil seed bank for more than 50 years before germination. Some seeds have a very long viability period, and the oldest documented germinating seed was nearly 2000 years old based on radiocarbon dating.\n\nTrue dormancy or innate dormancy is caused by conditions within the seed that prevent germination under normally ideal conditions. Often seed dormancy is divided into two major categories based on what part of the seed produces dormancy: exogenous and endogenous. There are three types of dormancy based on their mode of action: physical, physiological and morphological.\n\nThere have been a number of classification schemes developed to group different dormant seeds, but none have gained universal usage. Dormancy occurs because of a wide range of reasons that often overlap, producing conditions in which definitive categorization is not clear. Compounding this problem is that the same seed that is dormant for one reason at a given point may be dormant for another reason at a later point. Some seeds fluctuate from periods of dormancy to non dormancy, and despite the fact that a dormant seed appears to be static or inert, in\n\nExogenous dormancy is caused by conditions outside the embryo and is often broken down into three subgroups:\n\nDormancy that is caused by an impermeable seed coat is known as physical dormancy. Physical dormancy is the result of impermeable layer(s) that develops during maturation and drying of the seed or fruit. This impermeable layer prevents the seed from taking up water or gases. As a result, the seed is prevented from germinating until dormancy is broken. In natural systems, physical dormancy is broken by several factors including high temperatures, fluctuating temperatures, fire, freezing/thawing, drying or passage through the digestive tracts of animals. Physical dormancy is believed to have developed >100 mya.\n\nOnce physical dormancy is broken it cannot be reinstated i.e. the seed is unable to enter secondary dormancy following unfavourable conditions unlike seeds with physiological dormancy mechanisms. Therefore, the timing of the mechanisms that breaks physical dormancy is critical and must be tuned to environmental cues. This maximises the chances for germination occurring in conditions where the plant will successfully germinate, establish and eventually reproduce.\n\nPhysical dormancy has been identified in the seeds of plants across 16 angiosperm families including:\n\nPhysical dormancy has not been recorded in any gymnosperms\n\nGenerally, physical dormancy is the result of one or more palisade layers in the fruit or seed coat. These layers are lignified with malphigian cells tightly packed together and impregnated with water-repellent. In the Anacardiaceae and Nelumbonaceae families the seed coat is not well developed. Therefore, palisade layers in the fruit perform the functional role of preventing water uptake . While physical dormancy is a common feature, several species in these families do not have physical dormancy or produce non-dormant seeds.\n\nSpecialised structures, which function as a \"water-gap\", are associated with the impermeable layers of the seed to prevent the uptake of water. The water-gap is closed at seed maturity and is opened in response to the appropriate environmental signal. Breaking physical dormancy involves the disruption of these specialised structures within the seed, and acts as an environmental signal detector for germination. For example, legume (Fabaceae) seeds become permeable after the thin-walled cells of lens (water-gap structure). Following disrupted pulls apart to allow water entry into the seed.Other water gap structures include carpellary micropyle, bixoid chalazal plug, imbibition lid and the suberised ‘stopper’.\n\nIn nature, the seed coats of physically dormant seeds are thought to become water permeable over time through repeated heating and cooling over many months-years in the soil seedbank. For example, the high and fluctuating temperatures during the dry season in northern Australia promote dormancy break in impermeable seeds of \"Stylosanthes humilis\" and \"S.hamata\" (Fabaceae).\n\nMechanical dormancy occurs when seed coats or other coverings are too hard to allow the embryo to expand during germination. In the past this mechanism of dormancy was ascribed to a number of species that have been found to have endogenous factors for their dormancy instead. These endogenous factors include low embryo growth potential.\n\nIncludes growth regulators etc., that are present in the coverings around the embryo. They may be leached out of the tissues by washing or soaking the seed, or deactivated by other means. Other chemicals that prevent germination are washed out of the seeds by rainwater or snow melt.\n\nEndogenous dormancy is caused by conditions within the embryo itself, and it is also often broken down into three subgroups: physiological dormancy, morphological dormancy and combined dormancy, each of these groups may also have subgroups.\n\nPhysiological dormancy prevents embryo growth and seed germination until chemical changes occur. Physiological dormancy is indicated when an increase in germination rate occurs after an application of gibberellic acid (GA3) or after Dry after-ripening or dry storage. It is also indicated when dormant seed embryos are excised and produce healthy seedlings: or when up to 3 months of cold (0–10 °C) or warm (=15 °C) stratification increases germination: or when dry after-ripening shortens the cold stratification period required. In some seeds physiological dormancy is indicated when scarification increases germination.\n\nPhysiological dormancy is broken when inhibiting chemicals are broken down or are no longer produced by the seed; often by a period of cool moist conditions, normally below (+4C) 39F, or in the case of many species in \"Ranunculaceae\" and a few others,(−5C) 24F. Abscisic acid is usually the growth inhibitor in seeds and its production can be affected by light. Some plants like Peony species have multiple types of physiological dormancy, one affects radicle (root) growth while the other affects plumule (shoot) growth. \nSeeds are classified as having deep physiological dormancy under these conditions: applications of GA3 does not increase germination; or when excised embryos produce abnormal seedlings; or when seeds require more than 3 months of cold stratification to germinate.\n\nIn morphological dormancy, the embryo is underdeveloped or undifferentiated. Some seeds have fully differentiated embryos that need to grow more before seed germination, or the embryos are not differentiated into different tissues at the time of fruit ripening.\n\nThese seeds have both morphological and physiological dormancy.\n\n\nCombinational dormancy occurs in some seeds, where dormancy is caused by both exogenous (physical) and\nendogenous (physiological) conditions. some \"Iris\" species have both hard impermeable seeds coats and physiological dormancy.\n\nSecondary dormancy occurs in some non-dormant and post dormant seeds that are exposed to conditions that are not favorable for germination, like high temperatures. It is caused by conditions that occur after the seed has been dispersed. The mechanisms of secondary dormancy are not yet fully understood but might involve the loss of sensitivity in receptors in the plasma membrane.\n\nNot all seeds undergo a period of dormancy, many species of plants release their seeds late in the year when the soil temperature is too low for germination or when the environment is dry. If these seeds are collected and sown in an environment that is warm enough, and/or moist enough, they will germinate. Under natural conditions non dormant seeds released late in the growing season wait until spring when the soil temperature rises or in the case of seeds dispersed during dry periods until it rains and there is enough soil moisture.\n\nSeeds that do not germinate because they have fleshy fruits that retard germination are quiescent, not dormant.\n\nMany garden plants have seeds that will germinate readily as soon as they have water and are warm enough, though their wild ancestors had dormancy. These cultivated plants lack seed dormancy because of generations of selective pressure by plant breeders and gardeners that grew and kept plants that lacked dormancy.\n\nSeeds of some mangroves are viviparous and begin to germinate while still attached to the parent; they produce a large, heavy root, which allows the seed to penetrate into the ground when it falls.\n"}
{"id": "23536889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23536889", "title": "Sequoia sempervirens", "text": "Sequoia sempervirens\n\nSequoia sempervirens is the sole living species of the genus \"Sequoia\" in the cypress family Cupressaceae (formerly treated in Taxodiaceae). Common names include coast redwood, coastal redwood and California redwood. It is an evergreen, long-lived, monoecious tree living 1,200–1,800 years or more. This species includes the tallest living trees on Earth, reaching up to in height (without the roots) and up to in diameter at breast height (dbh). These trees are also among the oldest living things on Earth. Before commercial logging and clearing began by the 1850s, this massive tree occurred naturally in an estimated along much of coastal California (excluding southern California where rainfall is not sufficient) and the southwestern corner of coastal Oregon within the United States.\nThe name sequoia sometimes refers to the subfamily Sequoioideae, which includes \"S. sempervirens\" along with \"Sequoiadendron\" (giant sequoia) and \"Metasequoia\" (dawn redwood). Here, the term redwood on its own refers to the species covered in this article, and not to the other two species.\n\nScottish botanist David Don described the redwood as the evergreen taxodium (\"Taxodium sempervirens\") in his colleague Aylmer Bourke Lambert's 1824 work \"A description of the genus Pinus\". Austrian botanist Stephan Endlicher erected the genus \"Sequoia\" in his 1847 work \"Synopsis coniferarum\", giving the redwood its current binomial name of \"Sequoia sempervirens\". Endlicher probably derived the name Sequoia from the Cherokee name of George Gist, usually spelled Sequoyah, who developed the still-used Cherokee syllabary. The redwood is one of three living species, each in its own genus, in the subfamily Sequoioideae. Molecular studies have shown that the three are each other's closest relatives, generally with the redwood and giant sequoia (\"Sequoiadendron giganteum\") as each other's closest relatives. However, Yang and colleagues in 2010 queried the polyploid state of the redwood and speculate that it may have arisen as an ancient hybrid between ancestors of the giant sequoia and dawn redwood (\"Metasequoia\"). Using two different single copy nuclear genes, LFY and NLY, to generate phylogenetic trees, they found that \"Sequoia\" was clustered with \"Metasequoia\" in the tree generated using the LFY gene, but with \"Sequoiadendron \"in the tree generated with the NLY gene. Further analysis strongly supported the hypothesis that \"Sequoia\" was the result of a hybridization event involving \"Metasequoia\" and \"Sequoiadendron\". Thus, Yang and colleagues hypothesize that the inconsistent relationships among \"Metasequoia\", \"Sequoia,\" and \"Sequoiadendron\" could be a sign of reticulate evolution (in which two species hybridize and give rise to a third) among the three genera. However, the long evolutionary history of the three genera (the earliest fossil remains being from the Jurassic) make resolving the specifics of when and how \"Sequoia\" originated once and for all a difficult matter—especially since it in part depends on an incomplete fossil record.\n\nThe coast redwood can reach tall with a trunk diameter of . It has a conical crown, with horizontal to slightly drooping branches. The bark can be very thick, up to , and quite soft and fibrous, with a bright red-brown color when freshly exposed (hence the name redwood), weathering darker. The root system is composed of shallow, wide-spreading lateral roots.\n\nThe leaves are variable, being long and flat on young trees and shaded shoots in the lower crown of old trees. On the other hand, they are scale-like, long on shoots in full sun in the upper crown of older trees, with a full range of transition between the two extremes. They are dark green above and have two blue-white stomatal bands below. Leaf arrangement is spiral, but the larger shade leaves are twisted at the base to lie in a flat plane for maximum light capture.\n\nThe species is monoecious, with pollen and seed cones on the same plant. The seed cones are ovoid, long, with 15–25 spirally arranged scales; pollination is in late winter with maturation about 8–9 months after. Each cone scale bears three to seven seeds, each seed long and broad, with two wings wide. The seeds are released when the cone scales dry out and open at maturity. The pollen cones are ovular and long.\n\nIts genetic makeup is unusual among conifers, being a hexaploid (6n) and possibly allopolyploid (AAAABB).\nBoth the mitochondrial and chloroplast genomes of the redwood are paternally inherited.\n\nCoast redwoods occupy a narrow strip of land approximately in length and in width along the Pacific coast of North America; the most southerly grove is in Monterey County, California, and the most northerly groves are in extreme southwestern Oregon. The prevailing elevation range is above sea level, occasionally down to 0 and up to 3,000 ft (about 920 m). They usually grow in the mountains where precipitation from the incoming moisture off the ocean is greater. The tallest and oldest trees are found in deep valleys and gullies, where year-round streams can flow, and fog drip is regular. The trees above the fog layer, above about , are shorter and smaller due to the drier, windier, and colder conditions. In addition, Douglas fir, pine, and tanoak often crowd out redwoods at these elevations. Few redwoods grow close to the ocean, due to intense salt spray, sand, and wind. Coalescence of coastal fog accounts for a considerable part of the trees' water needs.\n\nThe northern boundary of its range is marked by groves on the Chetco River on the western fringe of the Klamath Mountains, near the California-Oregon border. The largest (and tallest) populations are in Redwood National and State Parks (Del Norte and Humboldt Counties) and Humboldt Redwoods State Park (Humboldt County, California), with the majority located in the much larger Humboldt County. The southern boundary of its range is the Los Padres National Forest's Silver Peak Wilderness in the Santa Lucia Mountains of the Big Sur area of Monterey County, California. The southernmost grove is in the Southern Redwood Botanical Area, just north of the national forest's Salmon Creek trailhead. The southernmost grove can be seen from California Highway 1 at the approximate coordinates 35°49'42 N 121°23'14 W.\n\nThe prehistoric fossil range of the genus is considerably greater, with a subcosmopolitan distribution including Europe and Asia until about 5 million years ago. During the last ice age, perhaps as recently as 10,000 years ago, redwood trees grew as far south as the Los Angeles area (coast redwood bark found in subway excavations and at La Brea tar pits).\n\nThis native area provides a unique environment with heavy seasonal rains up to annually. Cool coastal air and fog drip keep this forest consistently damp year round. Several factors, including the heavy rainfall, create a soil with fewer nutrients than the trees need, causing them to depend heavily on the entire biotic community of the forest, especially complete recycling of the trees when dead. This forest community includes coast Douglas fir, Pacific madrone, tanoak, western hemlock, and other trees, along with a wide variety of ferns, mosses, mushrooms, and redwood sorrel. Redwood forests provide habitat for a variety of amphibians, birds, mammals, and reptiles. Old-growth redwood stands provide habitat for the federally threatened spotted owl and the California-endangered marbled murrelet.\n\nCoast redwoods are resistant to insect attack, fungal infection, and rot. These properties are conferred by concentrations of terpenoids and tannic acid in redwood leaves, roots, bark, and wood. Despite these chemical defenses, redwoods are still subject to insect infestations; none, however, are capable of killing a healthy tree. Redwoods also face predation from mammals: black bears are reported to consume the inner bark of small redwoods, and black-tailed deer are known to eat redwood sprouts.\n\nThe oldest known coast redwood is about 2,200 years old; many others in the wild exceed 600 years. The numerous claims of older redwoods are incorrect. Because of their seemingly timeless lifespans, coast redwoods were deemed the \"everlasting redwood\" at the turn of the century; in Latin, \"sempervirens\" means \"ever green\" or \"everlasting\". Redwoods must endure various environmental disturbances to attain such great ages. In response to forest fires, the trees have developed various adaptations. The thick, fibrous bark of coast redwoods is extremely fire-resistant; it grows to at least a foot thick and protects mature trees from fire damage. In addition, the redwoods contain little flammable pitch or resin. If damaged by fire, a redwood readily sprouts new branches or even an entirely new crown, and if the parent tree is killed, new buds sprout from its base. Fires, moreover, appear to actually benefit redwoods by causing substantial mortality in competing species while having only minor effects on redwood. Burned areas are favorable to the successful germination of redwood seeds. A study published in 2010, the first to compare post-wildfire survival and regeneration of redwood and associated species, concluded fires of all severity increase the relative abundance of redwood and higher-severity fires provide the greatest benefit.\n\nRedwoods often grow in flood-prone areas. Sediment deposits can form impermeable barriers that suffocate tree roots, and unstable soil in flooded areas often causes trees to lean to one side, increasing the risk of the wind toppling them. Immediately after a flood, redwoods grow their existing roots upwards into recently deposited sediment layers. A second root system then develops from adventitious buds on the newly buried trunk and the old root system dies. To counter lean, redwoods increase wood production on the vulnerable side, creating a supporting buttress. These adaptations create forests of almost exclusively redwood trees in flood-prone regions.\n\nThe height of \"S. sempervirens\" is closely tied to fog availability; taller trees become less frequent as fog becomes less frequent. As \"S. sempervirens\"' height increases, transporting water via water potential to the leaves becomes increasingly difficult due to gravity. Despite the high rainfall that the region receives (up to 100 cm), the leaves in the upper canopy are perpetually stressed for water. This water stress is exacerbated by long droughts in the summer. Water stress is believed to cause the morphological changes in the leaves, stimulating reduced leaf length and increased leaf succulence. To supplement their water needs, redwoods utilize frequent summer fog events. Fog water is absorbed through multiple pathways. Leaves directly take in fog from the surrounding air through the epidermal tissue, bypassing the xylem. Coast redwoods also absorb water directly through their bark. The uptake of water through leaves and bark repairs and reduces the severity of xylem embolisms, which occur when cavitations form in the xylem preventing the transport of water and nutrients. Fog may also collect on redwood leaves, drip to the forest floor, and be absorbed by the tree's roots. This fog drip may form 30% of the total water used by a tree in a year.\n\nCoast redwood reproduces both sexually by seed and asexually by sprouting of buds, layering, or lignotubers. Seed production begins at 10–15 years of age. Cones develop in the winter and mature by fall. In the early stages, the cones look like flowers, and are commonly called \"flowers\" by professional foresters, although this is not strictly correct. Coast redwoods produce many cones, with redwoods in new forests producing thousands per year. The cones themselves hold 90–150 seeds, but viability of seed is low, typically well below 15% with one estimate of average rates being 3 to 10 percent. The low viability may discourage seed predators, which do not want to waste time sorting chaff (empty seeds) from edible seeds. Successful germination often requires a fire or flood, reducing competition for seedlings. The winged seeds are small and light, weighing 3.3–5.0 mg (200–300 seeds/g; 5,600–8,500/ounce). The wings are not effective for wide dispersal, and seeds are dispersed by wind an average of only from the parent tree. Seedlings are susceptible to fungal infection and predation by banana slugs, bush rabbits, and nematodes. Most seedlings do not survive their first three years. However, those that become established grow very fast, with young trees known to reach tall in 20 years.\n\nCoast redwoods can also reproduce asexually by layering or sprouting from the root crown, stump, or even fallen branches; if a tree falls over, it generates a row of new trees along the trunk, so many trees naturally grow in a straight line. Sprouts originate from dormant or adventitious buds at or under the surface of the bark. The dormant sprouts are stimulated when the main adult stem gets damaged or starts to die. Many sprouts spontaneously erupt and develop around the circumference of the tree trunk. Within a short period after sprouting, each sprout develops its own root system, with the dominant sprouts forming a ring of trees around the parent root crown or stump. This ring of trees is called a \"fairy ring\". Sprouts can achieve heights of in a single growing season.\n\nRedwoods may also reproduce using burls. A burl is a woody lignotuber that commonly appears on a redwood tree below the soil line, though usually within in depth from the soil surface. Coast redwoods develop burls as seedlings from the axils of their cotyledon, a trait that is extremely rare in conifers. When provoked by damage, dormant buds in the burls sprout new shoots and roots. Burls are also capable of sprouting into new trees when detached from the parent tree, though exactly how this happens is yet to be studied. Shoot clones commonly sprout from burls and are often turned into decorative hedges when found in suburbia.\n\nCoast redwood is one of the most valuable timber species in the lumbering industry. In California, of redwood forest are logged, virtually all of it second growth. Though many entities have existed in the cutting and management of redwoods, perhaps none has had a more storied role than the Pacific Lumber Company (1863–2008) of Humboldt County, California, where it owned and managed over of forests, primarily redwood. Coast redwood lumber is highly valued for its beauty, light weight, and resistance to decay. Its lack of resin makes it resistant to fire.\n\nP.H. Shaughnessy, Chief Engineer of the San Francisco Fire Department wrote,\n\nIn the recent great fire of San Francisco, that began April 18th, 1906, we succeeded in finally stopping it in nearly all directions where the unburned buildings were almost entirely of frame construction, and if the exterior finish of these buildings had not been of redwood lumber, I am satisfied that the area of the burned district would have been greatly extended.\n\nBecause of its impressive resistance to decay, redwood was extensively used for railroad ties and trestles throughout California. Many of the old ties have been recycled for use in gardens as borders, steps, house beams, etc. Redwood burls are used in the production of table tops, veneers, and turned goods.\n\nThe Yurok people, who occupied the region before European settlement, regularly burned off ground cover in redwood forests to bolster tanoak populations from which they harvested acorns, to maintain forest openings, and to boost populations of useful plant species such as those for medicine or basketmaking.\n\nExtensive logging of redwoods began in the early nineteenth century. The trees were felled by ax and saw onto beds of tree limbs and shrubs to cushion their fall. Stripped of their bark, the logs were transported to mills or waterways by oxen or horse. Loggers then burned the accumulated tree limbs, shrubs, and bark. The repeated fires favored secondary forests of primarily redwoods as redwood seedlings sprout readily in burned areas. The introduction of steam engines let crews drag logs through long skid trails to nearby railroads, furthering the reach of loggers beyond the land nearby rivers previously used to transport trees. This method of harvesting, however, disturbed large amounts of soil, producing secondary-growth forests of species other than redwood such as Douglas-fir, grand fir, and western hemlock. After World War II, trucks and tractors gradually replaced steam engines, giving rise to two harvesting approaches: clearcutting and selection harvesting. Clearcutting involved felling all the trees in a particular area. It was encouraged by tax laws that exempted all standing timber from taxation if 70% of trees in the area were harvested. Selection logging, by contrast, called for the removal 25% to 50% of mature trees in the hopes that the remaining trees would allow for future growth and reseeding. This method, however, encouraged growth of other tree species, converting redwood forests into mixed forests of redwood, grand fir, Sitka spruce, and western hemlock. Moreover, the trees left standing were often felled by windthrow; that is, they were often blown over by the wind.\n\nThe coast redwood is naturalized in New Zealand, notably at Whakarewarewa Forest, Rotorua. Redwood has been grown in New Zealand plantations for over 100 years, and those planted in New Zealand have higher growth rates than those in California, mainly due to even rainfall distribution through the year.\nOther areas of successful cultivation outside of the native range include Great Britain, Italy, Portugal, Haida Gwaii, middle elevations of Hawaii, Hogsback in South Africa, a small area in central Mexico (Jilotepec), and the southeastern United States from eastern Texas to Maryland. It also does well in the Pacific Northwest (Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia), far north of its northernmost native range in southwestern Oregon. Coast redwood trees were used in a display at Rockefeller Center and then given to Longhouse Reserve in East Hampton, Long Island, New York, and these have now been living there for over twenty years and have survived at .\n\nThis fast-growing tree can be grown as an ornamental specimen in those large parks and gardens that can accommodate its massive size. It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\nTrees over are common, and many are over . The current tallest tree is the Hyperion tree, measuring . The tree was discovered in Redwood National Park during the summer of 2006 by Chris Atkins and Mchael Taylor, and is thought to be the world's tallest living organism. The previous record holder was the Stratosphere Giant in Humboldt Redwoods State Park at (as measured in 2004). Until it fell in March 1991, the \"Dyerville Giant\" was the record holder. It, too, stood in Humboldt Redwoods State Park and was high and estimated to be 1,600 years old. This fallen giant has been preserved in the park.\n\nAs of 2016, no living specimen of other tree species exceeds . Numerous historic reports exist of Redwood trees 350 to 400 feet high, a tree reportedly 375 feet (114.3 m) in length was felled in Sonoma County by the Murphy Brothers saw mill in the 1870s another claimed to be was cut down in 1914, and one tree was even reported to be was felled in November 1886 by the Elk River Mill and Lumber Co. in Humboldt County, yielding 79,736 marketable board feet from 21 cuts. However, these accounts and many others must be viewed with some skepticism as limited evidence corroborates the measurements, and exaggerated claims were not uncommon in the lumber industry.\n\nFairly solid evidence indicates that coast redwoods were the world's largest trees before logging, with numerous historical specimens reportedly over . The theoretical maximum potential height of coast redwoods is thought to be limited to between , as evapotranspiration is insufficient to transport water to leaves beyond this range. Further studies have indicated this cap is eased by fog, which is prevalent in these trees' natural environment.\nThe largest known living coast redwood is Grogan's Fault, discovered in 2014 by Chris Atkins and Mario Vaden in Redwood National Park, with a main trunk volume of at least . Other high-volume coast redwoods include Iluvatar, with a main trunk volume of ,</small> and the Lost Monarch, with a main trunk volume of .\n\nAbout 230 albino redwoods (mutant individuals that cannot manufacture chlorophyll) are known to exist, reaching heights of up to . These trees survive as parasites, obtaining food by grafting their root systems with those of normal trees. While similar mutations occur sporadically in other conifers, no cases are known of such individuals surviving to maturity in any other conifer species. Recent research news reports that albino redwoods can store higher concentrations of toxic metals, going so far as comparing them to organs or \"waste dumps\".\n\nHeights of the tallest coast redwoods are measured yearly by experts. Even with recent discoveries of tall coast redwoods above , it is likely that no taller trees will be discovered.\nDiameter stated is as measured at 1.4 m (about 4.5 ft) above average ground level (at breast height). Details of the precise locations for most tallest trees were not announced to the general public for fear of causing damage to the trees and the surrounding habitat. The tallest coast redwood easily accessible to the public is the Founders Tree in Humboldt Redwoods State Park, standing over 346 ft tall. A taller coast redwood is also accessible to the public in Tall Trees Grove of Redwood National Park.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44199725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44199725", "title": "Sit-ups (punishment)", "text": "Sit-ups (punishment)\n\nThe sit-ups punishment (Uthak Baithak) is a form of punishment given in schools of Indian subcontinent, specially in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. In this punishment, one has to sit down and stand up continuously and count the number of sit-ups. It is a common punishment in schools. Generally students are asked to perform this with holding their ears with hands. For humiliation, it is done in front of other students. Normally given in the range of 10 to 100 sit up for boys and 10-50 sit up for girls.\nThere are many forms of this punishment.\nThe student will do situps holding his ears. The hands should be ninety degrees with the body. Also he/she has to count loudly with every step. If the count is not hearable the term will repeat. Every term he/she has to sit fully so that his back touch the heals and to stand straight.\nThe punished will hold his/her left year with right hand and right ear with left hand. This may cause hardness and humilation to the punishment. It is famous mostly.\nThere will be more than one student and they will hold ears of one another and do the situps. This makes the punishment more hard as the punished have to take weight of anothers. Also criss-cross earholding can be applied here. Then it will be extra hard to complete.\nIt is also varient used with the simple situps. Here the punished's heals should touch one another. This will cause friction between the knees for that he/she can fall. Criss-cross earholding can be applied here..\nDoing situps in the sun, situps with leaving tough are other types of punishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1301906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301906", "title": "Software quality", "text": "Software quality\n\nIn the context of software engineering, software quality refers to two related but distinct notions that exist wherever quality is defined in a business context:\n\n\nMany aspects of structural quality can be evaluated only statically through the analysis of the software inner structure, its source code, at the unit level, the technology level and the system level, which is in effect how its architecture adheres to sound principles of software architecture outlined in a paper on the topic by OMG. But some structural qualities, such as usability, can be assessed only dynamically (users or others acting in their behalf interact with the software or, at least, some prototype or partial implementation; even the interaction with a mock version made in cardboard represents a dynamic test because such version can be considered a prototype). Other aspects, such as reliability, might involve not only the software but also the underlying hardware, therefore, it can be assessed both statically and dynamically (stress test).\n\nFunctional quality is typically assessed dynamically but it is also possible to use static tests (such as software reviews).\n\nHistorically, the structure, classification and terminology of attributes and metrics applicable to software quality management have been derived or extracted from the ISO 9126-3 and the subsequent ISO 25000:2005 quality model, also known as SQuaRE. Based on these models, the Consortium for IT Software Quality (CISQ) has defined five major desirable structural characteristics needed for a piece of software to provide business value: Reliability, Efficiency, Security, Maintainability and (adequate) Size.\n\nSoftware quality measurement quantifies to what extent a software program or system rates along each of these five dimensions. An aggregated measure of software quality can be computed through a qualitative or a quantitative scoring scheme or a mix of both and then a weighting system reflecting the priorities. This view of software quality being positioned on a linear continuum is supplemented by the analysis of \"critical programming errors\" that under specific circumstances can lead to catastrophic outages or performance degradations that make a given system unsuitable for use regardless of rating based on aggregated measurements. Such programming errors found at the system level represent up to 90% of production issues, whilst at the unit-level, even if far more numerous, programming errors account for less than 10% of production issues. As a consequence, code quality without the context of the whole system, as W. Edwards Deming described it, has limited value.\n\nTo view, explore, analyze, and communicate software quality measurements, concepts and techniques of information visualization provide visual, interactive means useful, in particular, if several software quality measures have to be related to each other or to components of a software or system. For example, software maps represent a specialized approach that \"can express and combine information about software development, software quality, and system dynamics\".\n\n\"A science is as mature as its measurement tools,\" (Louis Pasteur in ). Measuring software quality is motivated by at least two reasons:\n\n\nHowever, the distinction between measuring and improving software quality in an embedded system (with emphasis on risk management) and software quality in business software (with emphasis on cost and maintainability management) is becoming somewhat irrelevant. Embedded systems now often include a user interface and their designers are as much concerned with issues affecting usability and user productivity as their counterparts who focus on business applications. The latter are in turn looking at ERP or CRM system as a corporate nervous system whose uptime and performance are vital to the well-being of the enterprise. This convergence is most visible in mobile computing: a user who accesses an ERP application on their smartphone is depending on the quality of software across all types of software layers.\n\nBoth types of software now use multi-layered technology stacks and complex architecture so software quality analysis and measurement have to be managed in a comprehensive and consistent manner, decoupled from the software's ultimate purpose or use. In both cases, engineers and management need to be able to make rational decisions based on measurement and fact-based analysis in adherence to the precept \"\"In God (we) trust. All others bring data\".\" ((mis-)attributed to W. Edwards Deming and others).\n\nThere are many different definitions of quality. For some it is the \"capability of a software product to conform to requirements.\" (ISO/IEC 9001, commented by) while for others it can be synonymous with \"customer value\" (Highsmith, 2002) or even defect level.\n\nThe first definition of quality History remembers is from Shewhart in the beginning of 20th century: \"There are two common aspects of quality: one of them has to do with the consideration of the quality of a thing as an objective reality independent of the existence of man. The other has to do with what we think, feel or sense as a result of the objective reality. In other words, there is a subjective side of quality.\" (Shewhart)\n\nKitchenham and Pfleeger, further reporting the teachings of David Garvin, identify five different perspectives on quality:\n\nEven though \"quality is a perceptual, conditional and somewhat subjective attribute and may be understood differently by different people\" (as noted in the article on quality in business), software structural quality characteristics have been clearly defined by the Consortium for IT Software Quality (CISQ). Under the guidance of Bill Curtis, co-author of the Capability Maturity Model framework and CISQ's first Director; and Capers Jones, CISQ's Distinguished Advisor, CISQ has defined five major desirable characteristics of a piece of software needed to provide business value. In the House of Quality model, these are \"Whats\" that need to be achieved:\n\n\nSoftware functional quality is defined as conformance to explicitly stated functional requirements, identified for example using Voice of the Customer analysis (part of the Design for Six Sigma toolkit and/or documented through use cases) and the level of satisfaction experienced by end-users. The latter is referred as to as usability and is concerned with how intuitive and responsive the user interface is, how easily simple and complex operations can be performed, and how useful error messages are. Typically, software testing practices and tools ensure that a piece of software behaves in compliance with the original design, planned user experience and desired testability, i.e. a piece of software's disposition to support acceptance criteria.\n\nThe dual structural/functional dimension of software quality is consistent with the model proposed in Steve McConnell's Code Complete which divides software characteristics into two pieces: internal and external quality characteristics. External quality characteristics are those parts of a product that face its users, where internal quality characteristics are those that do not.\n\nOne of the challenges in defining quality is that \"everyone feels they understand it\" and other definitions of software quality could be based on extending the various descriptions of the concept of quality used in business.\n\nDr. Tom DeMarco has proposed that \"a product's quality is a function of how much it changes the world for the better.\" This can be interpreted as meaning that functional quality and user satisfaction are more important than structural quality in determining software quality.\n\nAnother definition, coined by Gerald Weinberg in Quality Software Management: Systems Thinking, is \"Quality is value to some person.\" This definition stresses that quality is inherently subjective—different people will experience the quality of the same software differently. One strength of this definition is the questions it invites software teams to consider, such as \"Who are the people we want to value our software?\" and \"What will be valuable to them?\".\n\nAlthough the concepts presented in this section are applicable to both structural and functional software quality, measurement of the latter is essentially performed through testing [see main article: Software testing].\n\nSoftware quality measurement is about quantifying to what extent a system or software possesses desirable characteristics. This can be performed through qualitative or quantitative means or a mix of both. In both cases, for each desirable characteristic, there are a set of measurable attributes the existence of which in a piece of software or system tend to be correlated and associated with this characteristic. For example, an attribute associated with portability is the number of target-dependent statements in a program. More precisely, using the Quality Function Deployment approach, these measurable attributes are the \"hows\" that need to be enforced to enable the \"whats\" in the Software Quality definition above.\n\nThe structure, classification and terminology of attributes and metrics applicable to software quality management have been derived or extracted from the ISO 9126-3 and the subsequent ISO/IEC 25000:2005 quality model. The main focus is on internal structural quality. Subcategories have been created to handle specific areas like business application architecture and technical characteristics such as data access and manipulation or the notion of transactions.\n\nThe dependence tree between software quality characteristics and their measurable attributes is represented in the diagram on the right, where each of the 5 characteristics that matter for the user (right) or owner of the business system depends on measurable attributes (left):\n\nCorrelations between programming errors and production defects unveil that basic code errors account for 92% of the total errors in the source code. These numerous code-level issues eventually count for only 10% of the defects in production. Bad software engineering practices at the architecture levels account for only 8% of total defects, but consume over half the effort spent on fixing problems, and lead to 90% of the serious reliability, security, and efficiency issues in production.\n\nMany of the existing software measures count structural elements of the application that result from parsing the source code for such individual instructions (Park, 1992), tokens (Halstead, 1977), control structures (McCabe, 1976), and objects (Chidamber & Kemerer, 1994).\n\nSoftware quality measurement is about quantifying to what extent a system or software rates along these dimensions. The analysis can be performed using a qualitative or quantitative approach or a mix of both to provide an aggregate view [using for example weighted average(s) that reflect relative importance between the factors being measured].\n\nThis view of software quality on a linear continuum has to be supplemented by the identification of discrete Critical Programming Errors. These vulnerabilities may not fail a test case, but they are the result of bad practices that under specific circumstances can lead to catastrophic outages, performance degradations, security breaches, corrupted data, and myriad other problems (Nygard, 2007) that make a given system de facto unsuitable for use regardless of its rating based on aggregated measurements. A well-known example of vulnerability is the Common Weakness Enumeration, a repository of vulnerabilities in the source code that make applications exposed to security breaches.\n\nThe measurement of critical application characteristics involves measuring structural attributes of the application's architecture, coding, and in-line documentation, as displayed in the picture above. Thus, each characteristic is affected by attributes at numerous levels of abstraction in the application and all of which must be included calculating the characteristic's measure if it is to be a valuable predictor of quality outcomes that affect the business. The layered approach to calculating characteristic measures displayed in the figure above was first proposed by Boehm and his colleagues at TRW (Boehm, 1978) and is the approach taken in the ISO 9126 and 25000 series standards. These attributes can be measured from the parsed results of a static analysis of the application source code. Even dynamic characteristics of applications such as reliability and performance efficiency have their causal roots in the static structure of the application.\n\nStructural quality analysis and measurement is performed through the analysis of the source code, the architecture, software framework, database schema in relationship to principles and standards that together define the conceptual and logical architecture of a system. This is distinct from the basic, local, component-level code analysis typically performed by development tools which are mostly concerned with implementation considerations and are crucial during debugging and testing activities.\n\nThe root causes of poor reliability are found in a combination of non-compliance with good architectural and coding practices. This non-compliance can be detected by measuring the static quality attributes of an application. Assessing the static attributes underlying an application's reliability provides an estimate of the level of business risk and the likelihood of potential application failures and defects the application will experience when placed in operation.\n\nAssessing reliability requires checks of at least the following software engineering best practices and technical attributes:\nDepending on the application architecture and the third-party components used (such as external libraries or frameworks), custom checks should be defined along the lines drawn by the above list of best practices to ensure a better assessment of the reliability of the delivered software.\n\nAs with Reliability, the causes of performance inefficiency are often found in violations of good architectural and coding practice which can be detected by measuring the static quality attributes of an application. These static attributes predict potential operational performance bottlenecks and future scalability problems, especially for applications requiring high execution speed for handling complex algorithms or huge volumes of data.\n\nAssessing performance efficiency requires checking at least the following software engineering best practices and technical attributes:\n\nMost security vulnerabilities result from poor coding and architectural practices such as SQL injection or cross-site scripting. These are well documented in lists maintained by CWE, and the SEI/Computer Emergency Center (CERT) at Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nAssessing security requires at least checking the following software engineering best practices and technical attributes:\n\nMaintainability includes concepts of modularity, understandability, changeability, testability, reusability, and transferability from one development team to another. These do not take the form of critical issues at the code level. Rather, poor maintainability is typically the result of thousands of minor violations with best practices in documentation, complexity avoidance strategy, and basic programming practices that make the difference between clean and easy-to-read code vs. unorganized and difficult-to-read code.\n\nAssessing maintainability requires checking the following software engineering best practices and technical attributes:\n\nMaintainability is closely related to Ward Cunningham's concept of technical debt, which is an expression of the costs resulting of a lack of maintainability.\nReasons for why maintainability is low can be classified as reckless vs. prudent and deliberate vs. inadvertent, and often have their origin in developers' inability, lack of time and goals, their carelessness and discrepancies in the creation cost of and benefits from documentation and, in particular, maintainable source code.\n\nMeasuring software size requires that the whole source code be correctly gathered, including database structure scripts, data manipulation source code, component headers, configuration files etc. There are essentially two types of software sizes to be measured, the technical size (footprint) and the functional size:\n\n\nThe function point analysis sizing standard is supported by the International Function Point Users Group (IFPUG). It can be applied early in the software development life-cycle and it is not dependent on lines of code like the somewhat inaccurate Backfiring method. The method is technology agnostic and can be used for comparative analysis across organizations and across industries.\n\nSince the inception of Function Point Analysis, several variations have evolved and the family of functional sizing techniques has broadened to include such sizing measures as COSMIC, NESMA, Use Case Points, FP Lite, Early and Quick FPs, and most recently Story Points. However, Function Points has a history of statistical accuracy, and has been used as a common unit of work measurement in numerous application development management (ADM) or outsourcing engagements, serving as the \"currency\" by which services are delivered and performance is measured.\n\nOne common limitation to the Function Point methodology is that it is a manual process and therefore it can be labor-intensive and costly in large scale initiatives such as application development or outsourcing engagements. This negative aspect of applying the methodology may be what motivated industry IT leaders to form the Consortium for IT Software Quality focused on introducing a computable metrics standard for automating the measuring of software size while the IFPUG keep promoting a manual approach as most of its activity rely on FP counters certifications.\n\nCISQ announced the availability of its first metric standard, Automated Function Points,to the CISQ membership, in CISQ Technical. These recommendations have been developed in OMG's Request for Comment format and submitted to OMG's process for standardization.\n\nCritical Programming Errors are specific architectural and/or coding bad practices that result in the highest, immediate or long term, business disruption risk.\n\nThese are quite often technology-related and depend heavily on the context, business objectives and risks. Some may consider respect for naming conventions while others – those preparing the ground for a knowledge transfer for example – will consider it as absolutely critical.\n\nCritical Programming Errors can also be classified per CISQ Characteristics. Basic example below: \n\nNewer proposals for quality models such as Squale and Quamoco propagate a direct integration of the definition of quality attributes and measurement. By breaking down quality attributes or even defining additional layers, the complex, abstract quality attributes (such as reliability or maintainability) become more manageable and measurable. Those quality models have been applied in industrial contexts but have not received widespread adoption.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "3762294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3762294", "title": "Suicidal ideation", "text": "Suicidal ideation\n\nSuicidal ideation, also known as suicidal thoughts, is thinking about or having an unusual preoccupation with suicide. The range of suicidal ideation varies greatly from fleeting thoughts, to extensive thoughts, to detailed planning, role playing (e.g., standing on a chair with a noose), and incomplete attempts, which may be deliberately constructed not to be completed or discovered, or may be fully intended to result in death, but the individual survives (e.g., in the case of a hanging in which the cord breaks).\n\nMost people who have suicidal thoughts do not go on to make suicide attempts, but suicidal thoughts are considered a risk factor. During 2008–09, an estimated 8.3 million adults aged 18 and over in the United States, or 3.7% of the adult U.S. population, reported having suicidal thoughts in the previous year. An estimated 2.2 million in the U.S. reported having made suicide plans in 2014.\n\nSuicidal ideation is generally associated with depression and other mood disorders; however, it seems to have associations with many other mental disorders, life events, and family events, all of which may increase the risk of suicidal ideation. For example, many individuals with borderline personality disorder exhibit recurrent suicidal behavior and suicidal thoughts. One study found that 73% of patients with borderline personality disorder have attempted suicide, with the average patient having 3.4 attempts. Currently, there are a number of treatment options for those experiencing suicidal ideation.\n\nSuicidal ideation has a straightforward definition—suicidal thoughts—but there are some other related signs and symptoms. Some symptoms or co-morbid conditions may include unintentional weight loss, feeling helpless, feeling alone, excessive fatigue, low self-esteem, presence of consistent mania, excessively talkative, intent on previously dormant goals, feel like one's mind is racing. The onset of symptoms like these with an inability to get rid of or cope with their effects, a possible form of psychological inflexibility, is one possible trait associated with suicidal ideation. They may also cause psychological distress, which is another symptom associated with suicidal ideation. Symptoms like these related with psychological inflexibility, recurring patterns, or psychological distress may in some cases lead to the onset of suicidal ideation. Other possible symptoms and warning signs include:\n\n\n\nThere are numerous indicators that one can look for when trying to detect suicidal ideation. There are also situations in which the risk for suicidal ideation may be heightened. The risk factors for suicidal ideation can be divided into three categories: psychiatric disorders, life events, and family history.\n\nThere are several psychiatric disorders that appear to be comorbid with suicidal ideation or considerably increase the risk of suicidal ideation. The following list includes the disorders that have been shown to be the strongest predictors of suicidal ideation. It should be noted, however, that these are not the only disorders that can increase risk of suicidal ideation. The disorders in which risk is increased the greatest include:\n\n\nSome prescription drugs, such as selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), can have suicidal ideation as a side effect. Moreover, these drugs' intended effects, can themselves have unintended consequence of an increased individual risk and collective rate of suicidal behavior: Among the set of persons taking the medication, a subset feel bad enough to want to attempt suicide (or to desire the perceived results of suicide) but are inhibited by depression-induced symptoms, such as lack of energy and motivation, from following through with an attempt. Among this subset, a \"sub-subset\" may find that the medication alleviates their physiological symptoms (such as lack of energy) and secondary psychological symptoms (e.g., lack of motivation) before or at lower doses than it alleviates their primary psychological symptom of depressed mood. Among this group of persons, the desire for suicide or its effects persists even as major obstacles to suicidal action are removed, with the effect that the incidences of suicide attempt and of completed suicide increase.\n\nLife events are strong predictors of increased risk for suicidal ideation. Furthermore, life events can also lead to or be comorbid with the previous listed psychiatric disorders and predict suicidal ideation through those means. Life events that adults and children face can be dissimilar and for this reason, the list of events that increase risk can vary in adults and children. The life events that have been shown to increase risk the greatest are\n\n\n\nAccording to a study conducted by Ruth X. Liu of San Diego State University, a significant connection was found between the parent–child relationships of adolescents in early, middle and late adolescence and their likelihood of suicidal ideation. The study consisted of measuring relationships between mothers and daughters, fathers and sons, mothers and sons, and fathers and daughters. The relationships between fathers and sons during early and middle adolescence show an inverse relationship to suicidal ideation. Closeness with the father in late adolescence is \"significantly related to suicidal ideation\". Liu goes on to explain the relationship found between closeness with the opposite sex parent and the child's risk of suicidal thoughts. It was found that boys are better protected from suicidal ideation if they are close to their mothers through early and late adolescence; whereas girls are better protected by having a close relationship with their father during middle adolescence.\n\nAn article published in 2010 by Zappulla and Pace found that suicidal ideation in adolescent boys is exacerbated by detachment from the parents when depression is already present in the child. Lifetime prevalence estimates of suicidal ideation among nonclinical populations of adolescents generally range from 60% and in many cases its severity increases the risk of completed suicide.\n\nEarly detection and treatment are the best ways to prevent suicidal ideation and suicide attempts. If signs, symptoms, or risk factors are detected early then the individual might seek treatment and help before attempting to take their own life. In a study of individuals who did commit suicide, 91% of them likely suffered from one or more mental illnesses. However, only 35% of those individuals were treated or being treated for a mental illness. This emphasizes the importance of early detection; if a mental illness is detected, it can be treated and controlled to help prevent suicide attempts. Another study investigated strictly suicidal ideation in adolescents. This study found that depression symptoms in adolescents early as 9th grade is a predictor of suicidal ideation. Most people with long-term suicidal ideation do not seek professional help.\n\nThe previously mentioned studies point out the difficulty that mental health professionals have in motivating individuals to seek and continue treatment. Ways to increase the number of individuals who seek treatment may include:\n\nA study conducted by researchers in Australia set out to determine a course of early detection for suicidal ideation in teens stating that \"risks associated with suicidality require an immediate focus on diminishing self-harming cognitions so as to ensure safety before attending to the underlying etiology of the behavior\". A Psychological Distress scale known as the K10 was administered monthly to a random sample of individuals. According to the results among the 9.9% of individuals who reported \"psychological distress (all categories)\" 5.1% of the same participants reported suicidal ideation. Participants who scored \"very high\" on the Psychological Distress scale \"were 77 times more likely to report suicidal ideation than those in the low category\".\n\nIn a one-year study conducted in Finland, 41% of the patients who later committed suicide saw a health care professional, most seeing a psychiatrist. Of those, only 22% discussed suicidal intent on their last office visit. In most of the cases, the office visit took place within a week of the suicide, and most of the victims had a diagnosed depressive disorder.\n\nThere are many centers where one can receive aid in the fight against suicidal ideation and suicide. Hemelrijk et al. (2012) found evidence that assisting people with suicidal ideation via the internet versus more direct forms such as phone conversations has a greater effect.\n\nTreatment of suicidal ideation can be problematic due to the fact that several medications have actually been linked to increasing or causing suicidal ideation in patients. Therefore, several alternative means of treating suicidal ideation are often used. The main treatments include: therapy, hospitalization, outpatient treatment, and medication or other modalities.\n\nIn psychotherapy a person explores the issues that make them feel suicidal and learns skills to help manage emotions more effectively.\n\nHospitalization allows the patient to be in a secure, supervised environment to prevent the suicidal ideation from turning into suicide attempts. In most cases, individuals have the freedom to choose which treatment they see fit for themselves. However, there are several circumstances in which individuals can be hospitalized involuntarily. These circumstances are:\n\n\nHospitalization may also be treatment option if an individual:\n\n\nOutpatient treatment allows individuals to remain at their place of residence and receive treatment when needed or on a scheduled basis. Being at home may improve quality of life for some patients, because they will have access to their books and computer, and be able to come and go freely. Before allowing patients the freedom that comes with outpatient treatment, physicians evaluate several factors of the patient. These factors include the patient's level of social support, impulse control and quality of judgment. After the patient passes the evaluation, they are often asked to consent to a \"no-harm contract\". This is a contract formulated by the physician and the family of the patient. Within the contract, the patient agrees not to harm themself, to continue their visits with the physician, and to contact the physician in times of need. There is some debate as to whether \"no-harm\" contracts are effective. These patients are then checked on routinely to assure they are maintaining their contract and avoiding dangerous activities (drinking alcohol, driving fast without wearing a seat belt, etc.).\n\nPrescribing medication to treat suicidal ideation can be difficult. One reason for this is that many medications lift patients' energy levels before lifting their mood. This puts them at greater risk of following through with attempting suicide. Additionally, if a person has a comorbid psychiatric disorder, it may be difficult to find a medication that addresses both the psychiatric disorder and suicidal ideation.\n\nAntidepressants may be effective. Often, SSRIs are used instead of TCAs as the latter typically have greater harm in overdose.\n\nAntidepressants have been shown to be a very effective means of treating suicidal ideation. One correlational study compared mortality rates due to suicide to the use of SSRI antidepressants within certain counties. The counties which had higher SSRI use had a significantly lower number of deaths caused by suicide. Additionally, an experimental study followed depressed patients for one year. During the first six months of that year, the patients were examined for suicidal behavior including suicidal ideation. The patients were then prescribed antidepressants for the six months following the first six observatory months. During the six months of treatment, experimenters found suicide ideation reduced from 47% of patients down to 14% of patients. Thus, it appears from current research that antidepressants have a helpful effect on the reduction of suicidal ideation.\n\nAlthough research is largely in favor of the use of antidepressants for the treatment of suicidal ideation, in some cases antidepressants are claimed to be the cause of suicidal ideation. Upon the start of using antidepressants, many clinicians will note that sometimes the sudden onset of suicidal ideation may accompany treatment. This has caused the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to issue a warning stating that sometimes the use of antidepressants may actually increase the thoughts of suicidal ideation. Medical studies have found antidepressants help treat cases of suicidal ideation and work especially well with psychological therapy. Lithium reduces the risk of suicide in people with mood disorders. Tentative evidence finds clozapine in people with schizophrenia reduces the risk of suicide.\n\nOther terms for suicidal ideation include \"suicidalness\",\"suicidal thoughts\", \"suicidal impulse\", \"suicidal compulsions\", \"suicidalism\" and \"suicidality\". Some proverbs used to describe the cognitive inclination towards suicide include \"l'appel du vide\", \"high place phenomenon\", and \"call of the void\". Euphemisms related to mortal contemplation include \"internal struggle\", \"voluntary death\" and \"eating one's gun\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42259080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42259080", "title": "Suicide in Cameroon", "text": "Suicide in Cameroon\n\nSuicide in Cameroon has increased rapidly in the last 10 years, although health officials faced challenges assembling official statistics because suicide is considered a taboo in most parts of Africa. Suicide trends in Cameroonian society can be measured as a developing world problem due to socio-cultural and family relationship mechanisms. Although no governmental data is available to the causes of suicide in Cameroon, depression has been a documented causes in regard to traditional African initiation rights and worries about contracting HIV/AIDS.\n\nUnder Cameroonian Law, to commit suicide itself is not illegal, as is reporting on a suicide in the media, however publication of the suicide of a minor is an offence. Government treatment of physiological disorders relating to suicide severely lacks funding. According to the World Health Organization, there were only 2 psychiatric hospitals and just 115 beds in such hospitals out of a population of 19.9 million. Cameroon does not have a mental health plan, nor does it have a policy as such.\n\nThe Ministry of Health carried out a 9-year study in the Guidiguis health district between 1999 and 2008, a rural province in the north of the country. The most frequently used suicide method in the region was the ingestion of toxic agricultural chemicals and the suicides main cause were mainly attributed to ongoing chronic illness (31.9%), with sexual and marital conflicts (25.5%), witchcraft (14.9%), financial problems (8.5%) being the cause in other cases. The study concluded that suicide in rural Cameroon is not unusual and the capacity of mental health services in rural Cameroon is virtually non-existent.\n"}
{"id": "346123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346123", "title": "Systemics", "text": "Systemics\n\nIn the context of systems science and systems philosophy, systemics is an initiative to study systems. It is an attempt at developing logical, mathematical, engineering and philosophical paradigms and frameworks in which physical, technological, biological, social, cognitive and metaphysical systems can be studied and modeled.\n\nThe term \"systemics\" was coined in the 1970s by Mario Bunge and others, as an alternative paradigm for research related to general systems theory and systems science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15851004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15851004", "title": "Tamagotchi: The Movie", "text": "Tamagotchi: The Movie\n\nThe movie was dubbed & released by Madman Entertainment on June 1, 2009 in English in both Australia and United Kingdom. It is followed by a sequel, \"\".\n\nThe movie starts off with Mametchi finishing his new \"Transporter Machine\". At the same time, Tanpopo goes off to deliver a forgotten item to her mother. Tanpopo and Mametchi are both about to become older siblings. Memetchi and Kuchipatchi arrive at Mametchi's house just in time to see Mametchi try out his invention. Several events result in the aim of the Forwarding Machine to go off course, and Tanpopo is brought to Tamagotchi Planet.\n\nThe next day, Tanpopo goes to school to learn with the Tamagotchi children. During science class, an explosion kisses the room into smoke and darkness. Almost everyone is fine, but Mametchi crouches on the floor in fear. Later, Mametchi explains that he has been afraid of the dark ever since he got trapped in a hole one time. He fears he will be an embarrassment to his little sibling. Mametchi built the Transporter Machine to bring himself his own private sun to give him light. Mametchi vows to begin experiments to make a little sun for himself.\n\nOne day, Mametchi and Tanpopo stay home. Papamametchi gives Tanpopo a key that will take her back to the time when she was forwarded to Tamagotchi Planet. After several more events, the egg bounds out the window, rolls down the street, and eventually falls into a bundle of balloons that end up caught on the top of One Tower. Soon all of Tamagotchi Planet is watching Mametchi try to save the egg. Mametchi, Tanpopo, and Memetchi are all trying to save Mametchi's younger sibling, and Kuromametchi saves all three of them, using Kuchipatchi as a trampoline.\n\nSoon, the egg hatches into Mametchi's sister, Chamametchi. A montage of events follow, as Chamametchi grows to kindergarten age, while Mametchi finally succeeds in creating \"Mamesunnitchi\", a little sun that will follow Mametchi everywhere and always provide him with light. The real Tamagotchi Planet sun, Sunnitchi, witnesses this.\nSoon after, the rocket for Tanpopo is complete. Mametchi says he wants Tanpopo to stay for the birthday celebrations for the King, and both Tanpopo and Mametchi's parents agree.\n\nThe next morning, it is dark outside. Sunnitchi is nowhere to be found, and thus Tamagotchi Planet has no light. Mametchi and the others find this odd, but go to school anyway. During more preparations, a sneezing sound is heard, and the Tamagotchi Planet inhabitants are violently thrown into the air. It is soon discovered that Tamagotchi Planet caught a cold due to having no heat. Mametchi and Tanpopo overhear Principal Mimizu explaining that Sunnitchi left a goodbye note, apparently because Mametchi created a new sun. Mametchi takes this to mean that the whole situation was his fault.\n\nThat night, Mametchi sneaks out of the house with Mamesunnitchi and enters the completed rocket. Suddenly, Tanpopo, Memetchi, and Kuchipatchi appear, eager to help. They give Mametchi the manual, and he is able to start up the rocket. Chamametchi sneaks aboard at the last minute, and they are forced to take her with them.\n\nAs the passengers enter space, Papamametchi and the other scientists appear suddenly on the video screen and demand that they return. When Mametchi tells Papamametchi about how he is taking responsibility for his mistakes (just like with the egg incident), Papamametchi reluctantly agrees. The scientists had developed medicine for the Tamagotchi Planet, and the pill was mounted on top of the rocket. They have only one medicine capsule, and only one chance of administering it. Before Mametchi can fire the pill, Chamametchi jumps into his lap at the last moment, dislocating the rocket's trajectory. Though it appears they have failed at curing Tamagotchi planet, Tamagotchi World is able to absorb it with its runny nose.\n\nAt this point, Mametchi is about to go in search of Sunnitchi, but the rocket is sent spiraling away, and outside of radio contact. Mametchi finally reaches the breaking point and rails against Chamametchi when she asks to talk to Papamametchi and Mamametchi, yelling at her to be quiet, and that she is to blame for always following him around and not listening to him. Tanpopo tells Mametchi he said too much, and takes Chamametchi into another room to comfort her. Mametchi and the others join Tanpopo and Chamametchi for several minutes, where Mametchi and Chamametchi make up, and Tanpopo now knows what's in store for her when her younger sibling is born and is no longer afraid of that responsibility. Suddenly, however, the ship shakes violently, and they return to the command center to find that there are all sorts of objects flying towards them. They suddenly realize that they are drifting towards a black hole, and Mametchi is stricken with fear.\n\nMametchi attempts to fire the rocket, but the ship can't escape the pull of the black hole. Suddenly, communications with the Tamagotchi Planet are restored. One of the scientists (Professor Mametchi) notices that the black hole is actually a sleeping Blackholetchi. The only way to save the passengers is to wake Blackholetchi up. Mametchi activates the loudspeaker and everyone on the ship screams out, trying and awaken Blackholetchi. A meteoroid slams into the ship and blocks the loudspeaker so that no sound can come out. In desperation, Mametchi and Tanpopo put on spacesuits and try to dislodge the meteoroid. With the meteroid dislodged, Memetchi, Kuchipatchi, and Chamametchi started shouting at Blackholetchi again. Soon, all of the people on Tamagotchi Planet join in. Mametchi is finally able to overcome his fear of the dark, and joins in the call to awaken Blackholetchi.\n\nChamametchi starts screaming for Blackholetchi to wake up once more, and soon Tamagotchi World himself makes a loud cry. This finally reaches Blackholetchi, who awakes from his slumber. Mametchi is heard calling out from within Blackholetchi, and the universe's largest Tamagotchi apologizes and returns them to the ship. Communications are once again cut off; the inhabitants on Tamagotchi World note that the rocket has used up all of its fuel, and there is no way for the rocket's passengers to return. Mametchi's connection is restored, and the passengers have returned home. Sunnitchi, brought them all back to Tamagotchi Planet. Sunnitchi explains that he just left to go on a hot springs tour.\n\nThe celebration for the King's birthday begins, and there is a parade through Tamatown. Halfway through, Papamametchi and Mamametchi find Tanpopo and tell her that Cometchi is about to fly by Tamagotchi World, willing to take Tanpopo back to Earth. Hastily Tanpopo, Mametchi and his family, Memetchi, and Kuchipatchi go to the meadow to meet Cometchi. Tanpopo finally opens up the bag that she was supposed to be taking to her mother, and sees it is the dress that she had worn when she was a newborn. Chamametchi cries that she doesn't want Tanpopo to go, and a tearful farewell follows, with the Tamagotchis promising to never forget her.\n\nTanpopo is back at her desk in her room, at the exact time before she was forwarded to Tamagotchi Planet. She wonders if it was all a dream, until she sees the key she was given. Just then, her mother calls, and Tanpopo tells her she's about to deliver her bag.\n\nThe film grossed $6,784,907 at the Japanese box office, as of January 20, 2008.\n\nA few critics have reviewed the film and most of the reviews have been positive.\n\n"}
{"id": "19817681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19817681", "title": "Tardigrade", "text": "Tardigrade\n\nTardigrades (; also known colloquially as water bears, or moss piglets) are a phylum of water-dwelling, eight-legged, segmented micro-animals. They were first described by the German zoologist Johann August Ephraim Goeze in 1773, who gave them the name of \"little water bears\". The name Tardigrada (meaning \"slow steppers\") was given three years later by the Italian biologist Lazzaro Spallanzani. They have been found everywhere: from mountaintops to the deep sea and mud volcanoes; from tropical rain forests to the Antarctic. Tardigrades are among the most resilient known animals, with individual species able to survive extreme conditions that would be rapidly fatal to nearly all other known life forms, such as exposure to extreme temperatures, extreme pressures (both high and low), air deprivation, radiation, dehydration, and starvation. About 1,150 known species form the phylum Tardigrada, a part of the superphylum Ecdysozoa. The group includes fossils dating from 530 million years ago, in the Cambrian period.\n\nUsually, tardigrades are about long when they are fully grown. They are short and plump, with four pairs of legs, each ending in claws (usually four to eight) or sucking disks. Tardigrades are prevalent in mosses and lichens and feed on plant cells, algae, and small invertebrates. When collected, they may be viewed under a very low-power microscope, making them accessible to students and amateur scientists.\n\nJohann August Ephraim Goeze originally named the tardigrade \"kleiner Wasserbär\" (\"Bärtierchen\" today), meaning \"little water bear\" in German. The name \"Tardigradum\" means \"slow walker\" and was given by Lazzaro Spallanzani in 1776. The name \"water bear\" comes from the way they walk, reminiscent of a bear's gait. The biggest adults may reach a body length of , the smallest below 0.1 mm. Newly hatched tardigrades may be smaller than 0.05 mm.\nThe most convenient place to find tardigrades is on lichens and mosses. Other environments are dunes, beaches, soil, and marine or freshwater sediments, where they may occur quite frequently (up to 25,000 animals per litre). Tardigrades, in the case of \"Echiniscoides wyethi\", may be found on barnacles. Often, tardigrades can be found by soaking a piece of moss in water.\n\nTardigrades have barrel-shaped bodies with four pairs of stubby legs. Most range from in length, although the largest species may reach . The body consists of a head, three body segments each with a pair of legs, and a caudal segment with a fourth pair of legs. The legs are without joints, while the feet have four to eight claws each. The cuticle contains chitin and protein and is moulted periodically. The first three pairs of legs are directed downward along the sides, and are the primary means of locomotion, while the fourth pair is directed backward on the last segment of the trunk and is used primarily for grasping the substrate.\n\nTardigrades lack several Hox genes and a large intermediate region of the body axis. In insects, this corresponds to the entire thorax and the abdomen. Practically the whole body, except for the last pair of legs, is made up of just the segments that are homologous to the head region in arthropods.\nAll adult tardigrades of the same species have the same quantity of cells (see eutely). Some species have as many as 40,000 cells in each adult, while others have far fewer.\n\nThe body cavity consists of a haemocoel, but the only place where a true coelom can be found is around the gonad. No respiratory organs are found, with gas exchange able to occur across the entirety of the body. Some tardigrades have three tubular glands associated with the rectum; these may be excretory organs similar to the Malpighian tubules of arthropods, although the details remain unclear. Also nephridia are absent.\n\nThe tubular mouth is armed with stylets, which are used to pierce the plant cells, algae, or small invertebrates on which the tardigrades feed, releasing the body fluids or cell contents. The mouth opens into a triradiate, muscular, sucking pharynx. The stylets are lost when the animal molts, and a new pair is secreted from a pair of glands that lie on either side of the mouth. The pharynx connects to a short esophagus, and then to an intestine that occupies much of the length of the body, which is the main site of digestion. The intestine opens, via a short rectum, to an anus located at the terminal end of the body. Some species only defecate when they molt, leaving the feces behind with the shed cuticle.\n\nThe brain develops in a bilaterally symmetric pattern. The brain includes multiple lobes, mostly consisting of three bilaterally paired clusters of neurons. The brain is attached to a large ganglion below the esophagus, from which a double ventral nerve cord runs the length of the body. The cord possesses one ganglion per segment, each of which produces lateral nerve fibres that run into the limbs. Many species possess a pair of rhabdomeric pigment-cup eyes, and numerous sensory bristles are on the head and body.\n\nTardigrades all possess a buccopharyngeal apparatus (swallowing device made of muscles and spines that activates an inner jaw and begins digestion and movement along the throat and intestine) which, along with the claws, is used to differentiate among species.\n\nAlthough some species are parthenogenic, both males and females are usually present, each with a single gonad located above the intestine. Two ducts run from the testes in males, opening through a single pore in front of the anus. In contrast, females have a single duct opening either just above the anus or directly into the rectum, which thus forms a cloaca.\n\nTardigrades are oviparous, and fertilization is usually external. Mating occurs during the molt with the eggs being laid inside the shed cuticle of the female and then covered with sperm. A few species have internal fertilization, with mating occurring before the female fully sheds her cuticle. In most cases, the eggs are left inside the shed cuticle to develop, but some species attach them to nearby substrate.\n\nThe eggs hatch after no more than 14 days, with the young already possessing their full complement of adult cells. Growth to the adult size, therefore, occurs by enlargement of the individual cells (hypertrophy), rather than by cell division. Tardigrades may molt up to 12 times.\n\nMost tardigrades are phytophagous (plant eaters) or bacteriophagous (bacteria eaters), but some are carnivorous to the extent of eating other smaller species of tardigrades (e.g., \"Milnesium tardigradum\").\n\nTardigrades share morphological characteristics with many species that differ largely by class. Biologists have a difficult time finding verification among tardigrade species because of this relationship. These animals are most closely related to the early evolution of arthropods. Tardigrade fossils go as far back as the Cretaceous period in North America. This specific species is considered cosmopolitan and can be located in regions all over the world. The eggs and cysts of tardigrades are so resistant to other dangers that they are carried great distances, on the feet of other animals, to a different location.\n\nThe lifespan of tardigrades range from 3–4 months for some species, up to 2 years for other species, not counting the time they spend in dormant states.\n\nScientists have reported tardigrades in hot springs, on top of the Himalayas (6,000 m; 20,000 ft, above sea level) to the deep sea () and from the polar regions to the equator, under layers of solid ice, and in ocean sediments. Many species can be found in milder environments such as lakes, ponds, and meadows, while others can be found in stone walls and roofs. Tardigrades are most common in moist environments, but can stay active wherever they can retain at least some moisture.\n\nTardigrades are considered to be able to survive even complete global mass extinction events due to astrophysical events, such as gamma-ray bursts, or large meteorite impacts. Some of them can withstand extremely cold temperatures down to (close to absolute zero), while others can withstand extremely hot temperatures up to for several minutes, pressures about six times greater than those found in the deepest ocean trenches, ionizing radiation at doses hundreds of times higher than the lethal dose for a human, and the vacuum of outer space. They can go without food or water for more than 30 years, drying out to the point where they are 3% or less water, only to rehydrate, forage, and reproduce. Tardigrades that live in harsh conditions undergo an annual process of cyclomorphosis, allowing for survival in sub-zero temperatures.\n\nThey are not considered extremophilic because they are not adapted to exploit these conditions, only to endure them. This means that their chances of dying increase the longer they are exposed to the extreme environments, whereas true extremophiles thrive in a physically or geochemically extreme environment that would harm most other organisms.\n\nTardigrades are one of the few groups of species that are capable of suspending their metabolism (see cryptobiosis). Many species of tardigrade can survive in a dehydrated state up to five years, or in exceptional cases longer. Depending on the environment, they may enter this state via anhydrobiosis, cryobiosis, osmobiosis, or anoxybiosis. While in this state, their metabolism lowers to less than 0.01% of normal and their water content can drop to 1% of normal. Their ability to remain desiccated for such long periods was thought to be largely dependent on the high levels of the nonreducing sugar trehalose, which protects their membranes, although recent research suggests that tardigrades have a unique type of disordered protein that serves a similar purpose: It replaces water in the cells and adopts a glassy, vitrified state when the animals dry out. Their DNA is further protected from radiation by a protein called \"dsup\" (short for \"damage suppressor\"). In this cryptobiotic state, the tardigrade is known as a tun.\n\nTardigrades are able to survive in extreme environments that would kill almost any other animal. Extremes at which tardigrades can survive include those of:\n\n\nScientists have conducted morphological and molecular studies to understand how tardigrades relate to other lineages of ecdysozoan animals. Two plausible placements have been proposed: tardigrades are either most closely related to Arthropoda ± Onychophora, or to nematodes. Evidence for the former is a common result of morphological studies; evidence of the latter is found in some molecular analyses.\n\nThe latter hypothesis has been rejected by recent microRNA and expressed sequence tag analyses. Apparently, the grouping of tardigrades with nematodes found in a number of molecular studies is a long branch attraction artifact. Within the arthropod group (called panarthropoda and comprising onychophora, tardigrades and euarthropoda), three patterns of relationship are possible: tardigrades sister to onychophora plus arthropods (the lobopodia hypothesis); onychophora sister to tardigrades plus arthropods (the tactopoda hypothesis); and onychophora sister to tardigrades. Recent analyses indicate that the panarthropoda group is monophyletic, and that tardigrades are a sister group of Lobopodia, the lineage consisting of arthropods and Onychophora.\nThe minute sizes of tardigrades and their membranous integuments make their fossilization both difficult to detect and highly unusual. The only known fossil specimens are those from mid-Cambrian deposits in Siberia and a few rare specimens from Cretaceous amber.\n\nThe Siberian tardigrade fossils differ from living tardigrades in several ways. They have three pairs of legs rather than four, they have a simplified head morphology, and they have no posterior head appendages, but they share with modern tardigrades their columnar cuticle construction. Scientists think they represent a stem group of living tardigrades.\n\nRare specimens in Cretaceous amber have been found in two North American locations. \"Milnesium swolenskyi\", from New Jersey, is the older of the two; its claws and mouthparts are indistinguishable from the living \"M. tardigradum\". The other specimens from amber are from western Canada, some 15–20 million years earlier than \"M. swolenskyi\". One of the two specimens from Canada has been given its own genus and family, \"Beorn leggi\", but it bears a strong resemblance to many living specimens in the family Hypsibiidae.\n\n\"Aysheaia\" from the middle Cambrian Burgess shale has been proposed as a sister taxon to an arthropod-tardigrade clade. Tardigrades have been proposed to be among the closest living relatives of the Burgess shale oddity \"Opabinia\".\n\nTardigrade genomes vary in size, from about 75 to 800 megabase pairs of DNA.\n\"Hypsibius dujardini\" has a compact genome of 100 megabase pairs and a generation time of about two weeks; it can be cultured indefinitely and cryopreserved.\n\nThe genome of \"Ramazzottius varieornatus,\" one of the most stress-tolerant species of Tardigrades, was sequenced by a team of researchers from the University of Tokyo in 2015. Analysis revealed less than 1.2% of its genes were the result of horizontal gene transfer. They also found evidence of a loss of gene pathways that are known to promote damage due to stress. This study also found a high expression of novel Tardigrade-unique proteins, including Damage suppressor (Dsup), which was shown to protect against DNA damage from X-ray radiation. The same team applied the Dsup protein to human cultured cells and found that it suppressed X-ray damage to the human cells by ≈40%.\n\nMany organisms that live in aquatic environments feed on species such as nematodes, tardigrades, bacteria, algae, mites, and collembolans. Tardigrades work as pioneer species by inhabiting new developing environments. This movement attracts other invertebrates to populate that space, while also attracting predators.\n\nThe 2014 science documentary show \"\" has featured tardigrades multiple times.\n\nIn 2014, Adventure Game Studio released the \"Tardigrades\" video game that features the creatures prominently in the storyline.\n\nIn the 2015 sci-fi horror film \"Harbinger Down\", the characters have to deal with deadly mutated tardigrades.\n\nWhen the characters in \"Ant-Man\" (2015) and \"Ant-Man and the Wasp\" (2018) shrink themselves to enter the \"Quantum Realm\", they encounter tardigrades.\n\nIn \"\" (2017), the big alien \"Ripper\" creature who assists with navigating is said to be a cousin of the tardigrade, and is referred to as a \"giant space tardigrade\".\n\nThe 2017 \"South Park\" episode \"Moss Piglets\" involves a science experiment in which tardigrades learn to dance to the music of Taylor Swift.\n\nThe 2018 \"Family Guy\" episode \"Big Trouble in Little Quahog\" features Stewie and Brian being shrunk to microscopic level, and they meet a group of friendly tardigrades or \"water bears\" who help them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9196294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9196294", "title": "Tend and befriend", "text": "Tend and befriend\n\nTend-and-befriend is a behavior exhibited by some animals, including humans, in response to threat. It refers to protection of offspring (tending) and seeking out the social group for mutual defense (befriending). In evolutionary psychology, tend-and-befriend is theorized as having evolved as the typical female response to stress, just as the primary male response was fight-or-flight. The tend-and-befriend theoretical model was originally developed by Dr. Shelley E. Taylor and her research team at the University of California, Los Angeles and first described in a \"Psychological Review\" article published in the year 2000.\n\nAccording to the Polyvagal Theory developed by Dr. Stephen Porges, the \"Social Nervous System\" is an affiliative neurocircuitry that prompts affiliation, particularly in response to stress. This system regulates social approach behavior. A biological basis for this regulation appears to be oxytocin.\n\nOxytocin has been tied to a broad array of social relationships and activities, including peer bonding, sexual activity, and affiliative preferences. Oxytocin is released in humans in response to a broad array of stressors, especially those that may trigger affiliative needs. Oxytocin promotes affiliative behavior, including maternal tending and social contact with peers. Thus, affiliation under stress serves tending needs, including protective responses towards offspring. Affiliation may also take the form of befriending, namely seeking social contact for one's own protection, the protection of offspring, and the protection of the social group. These social responses to threat reduce biological stress responses, including lowering heart rate, blood pressure, and hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis (HPA) stress activity, such as cortisol responses.\n\nWomen are more likely to respond to stress through tending and befriending than men. Paralleling this behavioral sex difference, estrogen enhances the effects of oxytocin, whereas androgens inhibit oxytocin release.\n\nFemale stress responses that increased offspring survival would have led to higher fitness and thus were more likely to be passed on through natural selection. In the presence of threats, protecting and calming offspring while blending into the environment may have increased chances of survival for mother and child. When faced with stress, females often respond by tending to offspring, which in turn reduces stress levels. Studies conducted by Repetti (1989) show that women respond to highly stressful workdays by providing more nurturing behaviors towards their children. In contrast, fathers who experienced stressful workdays were more likely to withdraw from their families or were more interpersonally conflictual that evening at home. Furthermore, physical contact between mothers and their offspring following a threatening event decreased HPA activity and sympathetic nervous system arousal. Oxytocin, released in response to stressors, may be the mechanism underlying the female caregiving response. Studies of ewes show that administration of oxytocin promoted maternal behavior. Breastfeeding in humans, which is associated with maternal oxytocin release, is physiologically calming to both mothers and infants.\n\nTend-and-befriend is a critical, adaptive strategy that would have enhanced reproductive success among female cooperative breeders. Cooperative breeders are group-living animals where infant and juvenile care from non-mother helpers are essential to offspring survival. Cooperative breeders include wolves, elephants, many nonhuman primates, and humans. Among all primates and most mammals, endocrinological and neural processes lead females to nurture infants, including unrelated infants, after being exposed long enough to infant signals. Non-mother female wolves and wild dogs sometimes begin lactating to nurse the alpha female's pups.\n\nHumans are born helpless and altricial, mature slowly, and depend on parental investment well into their young adult lives, and often even later. Humans have spent most of human evolution as hunter-gatherer foragers. Among foraging societies without modern birth control methods, women have high parity, tending to give birth about every four years during their reproductive lifespan. When mothers give birth, they often have multiple dependent children in their care, who rely on adults for food and shelter for eighteen or more years. Such a reproductive strategy would not have been able to evolve if women did not have help from others. Allomothers (helpers who are not a child's mother) protect, provision, carry, and care for children. Allomothers are usually a child's aunts, uncles, fathers, grandmothers, siblings, and other women in the community. Even in modern Western societies, parents often rely on family members, friends, and babysitters to help care for children. Burkart, Hrdy, and Van Schaik (2009) argue that cooperative breeding in humans may have led to the evolution of psychological adaptations for greater prosociality, enhanced social cognition, and cognitive abilities for cooperative purposes, including willingness to share mental states and shared intentionality. These cognitive, prosocial processes brought on by cooperative breeding may have led to the emergence of culture and language.\n\nGroup living provides numerous benefits, including protection from predators and cooperation to achieve shared goals and access to resources. Women create, maintain, and use social networks—especially friendships with other women—to manage stressful conditions. During threatening situations, group members can be a source of support and protection for women and their children. Research shows that women are more likely to seek the company of others in times of stress, compared to men. Women and adolescent girls report more sources of social support and are more likely to turn to same-sex peers for support than men or boys are. Cross-culturally, women and girls tend to provide more frequent and effective support than men do, and they are more likely to seek help and support from other female friends and family members. Women tend to affiliate with other women under stressful situations. However, when women were given a choice to either wait alone or to affiliate with an unfamiliar man before a stressful laboratory challenge, they chose to wait alone. Female-female social networks can provide assistance for childcare, exchange of resources, and protection from predators, other threats, and other group members. Smuts (1992) and Taylor et al. (2000) argue that female social groups also provide protection from male aggression.\n\nHuman and animal studies (reviewed in Taylor et al., 2000) suggest that oxytocin is the neuroendocrine mechanism underlying the female \"befriend\" stress response. Oxytocin administration to rats and prairie voles increased social contact and social grooming behaviors, reduced stress, and lowered aggression. In humans, oxytocin promotes mother-infant attachments, romantic pair bonds, and friendships. Social contact or support during stressful times leads to lowered sympathetic and neuroendocrine stress responses. Although social support downregulates these physiological stress responses in both men and women, women are more likely to seek social contact during stress. Furthermore, support from another female provides enhanced stress-reducing benefits to women. However, a review of female aggression noted that \"The fact that OT [oxytocin] enhances, rather than diminishes, attention to potential threat in the environment casts doubt on the popular ‘tend-and-befriend’ hypothesis which is based on the presumed anxiolytic effect of OT\".\n\nAccording to Taylor (2000), affiliative behaviors and tending activities reduce biological stress responses in both parents and offspring, thereby reducing stress-related health threats. \"Befriending\" may lead to substantial mental and physical health benefits in times of stress. Social isolation is associated with significantly enhanced risk of mortality, whereas social support is tied to positive health outcomes, including reduced risk of illness and death.\n\nWomen have higher life expectancies from birth in most countries where there is equal access to medical care. In the United States, for example, this difference is almost 6 years. One hypothesis is that men's responses to stress (which include aggression, social withdrawal, and substance abuse) place them at risk for adverse health-related consequences. In contrast, women's responses to stress, which include turning to social sources for support, may be protective to health.\n\nGroup living and affiliation with multiple unrelated others of the same sex (who do not share genetic interests) also presents the problem of competing for access to limited resources, such as social status, food, and mates. Interpersonal stress is the most common and distressing type of stress for women. Although the befriending stress response may be especially activated for women under conditions of resource scarcity, resource scarcity also entails more intense competition for these resources. In environments with a female-biased sex ratio, where males are a more limited resource, female-to-female competition for mates is intensified, sometimes even resorting to violence. Although male crime rates far exceed those of females, arrests for assault among females follow a similar age distribution as in males, peaking for females in the late teens to mid-twenties. Those are ages in which females are at peak reproductive potential and experience the most mating competition. However, the benefits of affiliation would have outweighed the costs in order for tend-and-befriend to have evolved.\n\nRates of aggression between human males and females may not differ, but the patterns of aggression between the sexes do differ. Although females in general are less physically aggressive, they tend to engage in as much or even more indirect aggression (e.g. social exclusion, gossip, rumors, denigration). When experimentally primed with a mating motive or status competition motive, men were more willing to become directly aggressive towards another man, whereas women were more likely to indirectly aggress against another woman in an aggression-provoking situation. However, experimentally priming people with a resource competition motive increased direct aggression in both men and women. Consistent with this result, rates of violence and crime are higher among males and females under conditions of resource scarcity. In contrast, resource competition did not increase direct aggression in either men or women when they were asked to imagine that were married and had a young child. The costs of physical injury to a parent would also entail costs to his or her family.\n\nLower variance in reproductive success and higher costs of physical aggression may explain the lower rates of physical aggression among human females compared to males. Females are in general more likely to produce offspring in their lifetimes than males. Therefore, they have less to gain from fighting and the risk of injury or death would produce greater fitness cost for females. The survival of young children depended more on maternal than paternal care, which underscores the importance of maternal safety, survival, and risk aversion. Infants' primary attachment is to their mother, and maternal death increased the chances of childhood mortality in foraging societies by fivefold, compared to threefold in the cases of paternal death. Therefore, women respond to threats by tending and befriending, and female aggression is often indirect and covert in nature to avoid retaliation and physical injury.\n\nWomen befriend others not only for protection, but also to form alliances to compete with outgroup members for resources, such as food, mates, and social and cultural resources (e.g. status, social positions, rights and responsibilities). Informational warfare is the strategic competitive tactics taking the form of indirect, verbal aggression directed towards rivals. Gossip is one such tactic, functioning to spread information that would damage the reputation of a competitor. There are several theories regarding gossip, including social bonding and group cohesion. However, consistent with informational warfare theory, the content of gossip is relevant to the context in which competition is occurring. For example, when competing for a work promotion, people were more likely to spread negative work-related information about a competitor to coworkers. Negative gossip also increases with resource scarcity and higher resource value. In addition, people are more likely to spread negative information about potential rivals but more likely to pass on positive information about family members and friends.\n\nAs mentioned above, befriending can serve to protect women from threats, including harm from other people. Such threats are not limited to physical harm but also include reputational damage. Women form friendships and alliances in part to compete for limited resources, and also in part to protect themselves from relational and reputational harm. The presence of friends and allies can help deter malicious gossip, due to an alliance's greater ability to retaliate, compared to a single individual's ability. Studies by Hess and Hagen (2009) show that the presence of a competitor's friend reduced people's tendencies to gossip about the competitor. This effect was stronger when the friend was from the same competitive social environment (e.g. same workplace) than when the friend was from a nonrelevant social environment. Friends increase women's perceived capabilities for inflicting reputational harm on a rival as well as perceptions of defensive capabilities against indirect aggression.\n\nThis theory is based in evolutionary psychology, a field which has generated significant criticism for its promotion of gender determinism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11587850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11587850", "title": "Walking with...", "text": "Walking with...\n\nThe Walking with... series (also known as the Trilogy of Life or Walking with Prehistoric Life series) is a collection of shows that are produced by the BBC and are made by Impossible Pictures. The aim of the series and specials, along with its books, is to recreate extinct animals and presents them as a wildlife documentary. All the shows (with the exception of \"Chased by Dinosaurs\", \"Sea Monsters\" and \"Prehistoric Park\") focus on one individual of a certain species or that species as the main characters in each episode. Creatures were realized through computer graphics and animatronics and are directed by Tim Haines. The concept for the series was imagined by Tim Haines and Jasper James.\n\nThis six-part series is focused on the rise, success, and the demise of the dinosaurs and other animals in the Mesozoic Era.\nThis six-part series is a sequel to \"Walking with Dinosaurs\", and its focus is on the world after the dinosaurs, and the rise of the mammals in the Cenozoic Era. It was released in North America as \"Walking with Prehistoric Beasts\".\nThis four-part series is a sequel to \"Walking with Beasts\" and recounts the evolution of humans.\nThis three-part series is a prequel to \"Walking with Dinosaurs\", and its focus is life before the dinosaurs, in the Paleozoic Era.\n\nThis special follows the life and death of \"Big Al\", a famous \"Allosaurus\" skeleton found with various injuries. In the North American market, it was released under the title \"Allosaurus: A Walking with Dinosaurs Special\".\nIn these two episodes, real-life zoologist Nigel Marven travels through time in search for various dinosaurs.\nIn this three-part series, Marven again travels through time to encounter many prehistoric marine creatures that lived during, before, and after dinosaurs. In North America it was titled \"Chased by Sea Monsters\".\n\nThis spin-off series concludes Marven's prehistoric adventures as he travels through time to rescue extinct species and bring them to be held in a modern day sanctuary, Prehistoric Park.\n\nSeveral books were released that directly accompanied different series in the \"Walking with...\" series. These include the following:\n\n\nRelated books issued by the BBC and Dorling Kindersley include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52805514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52805514", "title": "Yu Jinhe", "text": "Yu Jinhe\n\nYu Jinhe (; 1887 – after 1945) was a politician of the Republic of China. He was born in Shaoxing, Zhejiang. He graduated from the Imperial Japanese Army Academy. He was the 2nd collaborationist mayor of Beijing. He served on the North China Political Council from February-November 1943. After the downfall of Wang Jingwei's government in August 1945, Yu was arrested and later died in prison at an unknown date.\n\n"}
