{"id": "38214915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38214915", "title": "1899 in philosophy", "text": "1899 in philosophy\n\n1899 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46816157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46816157", "title": "APA Ethics Code", "text": "APA Ethics Code\n\nThe American Psychological Association (APA) Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct (for short, the Ethics Code, as referred to by the APA) includes an introduction, preamble, a list of five aspirational principles and a list of ten enforceable standards that psychologists use to guide ethical decisions in practice, research, and education. The principles and standards are written, revised, and enforced by the APA. The code of conduct is applicable to psychologists in a variety of areas across a variety of contexts. In the event of a violation of the code of conduct, the APA may take action ranging from termination of the APA membership to the loss of licensure, depending on the violation. Other professional organizations and licensing boards may adopt and enforce the code.\n\nThe first version was published by the APA in 1953. The need for such a document came after psychologists were taking on more professional and public roles post-World War II. A committee was developed and reviewed situations submitted by psychologists in the field who felt they had encountered ethical dilemmas. The committee organized these situations into themes and included them in the first document which was 170 pages in length. Over the years, a distinction was made between aspirational principles and enforceable standards. Since, there have been nine revisions with the most recent published in 2002 and amended in 2010.\n\nDespite the development and use of a complete ethical code, there have still been ethical violations and controversies. For instance, although the APA takes an explicit stance against conversion therapy, this treatment remains controversial amongst many psychologists and religious groups and is still being practiced by some. There is also some disagreement within the field about the ethical implications of using a treatment that may be less effective than another known treatment, although some psychologists argue that all therapy treatments are equally effective (see: the Dodo bird verdict). The APA has also been implicated in helping the Central Intelligence Agency to continue \"enhanced interrogation techniques\" of detainees under the Bush administration. This presented an obvious violation of the organization's code of ethics and has been addressed by the APA in the form of reports, responses to media outlets, amendments to policies, and rejections of the allegations.\n\nThe introduction of the Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct is designed to describe the document's purpose. It also informs the reader of its organization, applicability, and procedural matters. The introduction states that the code applies to psychologists' scientific, educational, and professional roles, that may include \"clinical psychology; counseling psychology; school psychology; research; teaching; supervision; public service; policy development; social intervention; development of assessment instruments; conducting assessments; educational counseling; organizational counseling; forensic activities; program design and evaluation; and administration,\" (pg. 2) The introduction also includes information on what contexts these situations apply to, including electronic and face-to-face communication. It provides information on the procedures for filing an ethical complaint, along with a description the investigation process and possible outcomes. The preamble is a description of aspirations which the American Psychological Association expects of psychologists, and reviews the main purpose for having such an ethical code.\n\nThere are five general principles that serve as the ideals to which psychologists should aspire within the profession. The principles represent ethical goals but do not explicitly inform or instruct adherence to the goals; instead, the principles aim to influence and to guide professional behavior with respect to the psychologist, research subjects, students, and the individuals who seek psychological services.\n\nThe beneficence and non maleficence principle of the APA general principles guides psychologists to perform work that is beneficial to others yet does not hurt anyone in the process of carrying out that work. Psychologists are to remain aware of their professional influence and the potential consequences therein on individuals and groups who seek counsel with the psychologist, especially with respect to preventing misuse or abuse, while additionally maintaining awareness of how the psychologist's own physical and mental health may influence their work. Among professional interactions and research, psychologists ought to respect and protect the rights and welfare of patients and participants.\n\nThe fidelity and responsibility principle of the APA general principles inspires psychologists to cultivate a professional and scientific environment built upon trust, accountability, and ethical considerations. Psychologists are bound to the community by way of their profession and must conduct themselves in a responsible and ethical manner while also maintaining a similar check on colleagues. Furthermore, psychologists are expected to altruistically devote some of their time to the community.\n\nThe integrity principle of the APA general principles aims to encourage psychologists to engage in honest, transparent practices within all aspects of the field of psychology. That is, psychologists should not engage in behavior that could be misconstrued as dishonest, exploitative, or otherwise malicious. When deception is appropriately used (most likely during psychological research), psychologists have a responsibility to mitigate the effects of its use on the overall field.\n\nThe justice principle of the APA general principles states that people are entitled to the advances made within the field of psychology and to the services offered by professionals within the field. Furthermore, psychologists should prevent unjust practices by remaining aware of their biases, level of competence, and area and limits of expertise.\n\nThe APA general principle concerning respect for people's rights and dignity recognizes individuals' rights to privacy and confidentiality. Psychologists are to respect the individuals' rights while also acknowledging the worth of the individual by taking judicious precautions and engaging in positive, professional interactions, avoiding the influence of any personal bias towards the individual or group. This entails awareness of the vulnerabilities experienced by any particular population of people and necessitates understanding of and respect for diversity, including, but not limited to, factors concerning gender, race, religion, disability, and socioeconomic status.\n\nThe ethical principles of psychologists and code of conduct put forth by the APA consists of ten ethical standards. The ethical standards are enforceable rules applicable for psychologists in academia and practice. These are written broadly to guide psychologists in varied areas and roles, addressing situations most psychologists may encounter in their professional roles. The types of situations include those related to resolving ethical issues, competence, human relations, privacy and confidentiality, advertising and public statements, record keeping and fees, education and training, research and publication, assessment, and therapy. The ethical standards are enforced for the benefit of the psychologists, clients, students, and other individuals that work with psychologists. Any psychologist that is a member of the APA is expected to adhere to the ethical standards. Any violation of an ethical standard may result in sanctions ranging from termination of APA membership to loss of licensure.\n\nThe resolving ethical issues section of the APA Ethical Standards is broadly designed to guide psychologists through a variety of ethical issues. One of the first sections describes how to approach when the work of psychologists' is misused or misrepresented, such as happens in the popular press. Psychological research is often misrepresented. Two of the sections describe how to resolve conflicts between the ethical code of psychologists and a variety of governing bodies, laws, or regulations as well as organizational demands related to working as a psychologist. There is a section related to informal resolution of ethical violations for situations where such a resolution is possible while protecting confidentiality. If the incident extends beyond being able to be resolved informally, there are guidelines for reporting ethical violations as well as working with and cooperating with ethics committees. In regards to ethical complaints, there is also a section outlining what might be considered an improper complaint. Lastly, the Resolving Ethical Issues section describes unfair discrimination against complainants and respondents to protect those involved in ethics related investigations.\n\nThe competence section of the APA Ethical Standards is designed to guide psychologists in how to define their own competence and how to approach clients or patients that might fall outside of that area of expertise. This ethical standard begins by helping psychologists define the boundaries of their own competence. The different types of mental health related problems and potential treatments are highly varied. It is impossible for a psychologists to be competent in all areas, and in fact, unethical to attempt to portray themselves in such a way. If a psychologist feels that he/she has not been trained to ensure competence in a specific area to treat a client, he/she should make an appropriate referral. This ethical standard also provides psychologists with guidelines on providing services in emergency situations. Although psychologists should refrain from providing service outside of their area of competence, in times of emergency the psychologist is obligated to help where possible. Psychologists are also required to maintain competence. This is usually done through the completion of continuing education credits. This standard also provides the psychologist with a bases from which to make scientific and professional judgment in an ethically consistent manner. Outlines are also provided for delegating work to others and resolving personal problems and conflicts.\n\nThe human relations section of the APA Ethical Standards provides psychologists guidance with how to approach situations related to the process of working with people in a helping field. This section outlines how to identify and avoid unfair discrimination, sexual harassment, and other types of verbal and nonverbal harassment. These types of behavior have strong adverse influences on mental health. As such, psychologists must be particularly vigilant in identifying and avoiding these kinds of behavior. This section also outlines how to avoid harm when treating patients. Some treatments have been shown to cause harm, and as such, should be avoided. The section also provides guidance for navigating and avoiding a number of multiple relationships. Situations where a clinician has more than one relationship with the client beyond just being a client can be difficult to navigate, which can also lead to conflicts of interest, which are also covered. Guidance is also provided for how to approach requests for service from third-parties, that is, when someone other than the patient is requesting services for the said patient. Exploitative relationships are also covered and should be avoided, according to the ethical standards. This section provides guidance for cooperating with other professionals, which is often a situation faced in multi-disciplinary treatment teams. Guidance is provided for providing and obtaining informed consent for treatment. Another section outlines how to provide psychological services to or through organizations. And lastly, guidance is provided for how to navigate situations in which there is an interruption of psychological services for various reasons.\n\nThe privacy and confidentiality section of the APA Ethical Standards is written to help provide psychologists with guidelines for maintaining appropriate confidentiality and respecting the privacy of the clients and patients under their care. Specific guidelines are provided for maintaining confidentiality for the psychologist's patients as well as discussing the limits of confidentiality with them. In certain situations where the safety of the patient or others is at risk, confidentiality must be broken as law enforcement needs to be motivated. Guidelines are also provided for how to ethically record therapy sessions for various reasons including training. Steps are covered for the psychologist to minimize intrusions on privacy for patients. Sections on disclosures and consultations provide guidance on how and when psychologists should disclose information and how to ethically consult with other professionals while maintaining appropriate levels of confidentiality. Lastly, this section guides psychologists on how and when to use confidential information for didactic or other purposes while protecting confidentiality of the client.\n\nThe advertising and other public statements section of the APA Ethical Standards is designed to guide psychologists through the process of advertising their practice and making other types of public statements. This section begins by outlining how to avoid false and deceptive statements, in specific of one's level of competence. As described in the competence section, it is unethical to provide services outside of your area of expertise. The section also outlines statements by others regarding a psychologist's work and competence. The section goes on to outline how to accurately and honestly describe workshops and non-degree granting educational programs. Media presentations and testimonials regarding one's work, and how to do so ethically and accurately, is also covered. This section also states that obtaining testimonials from past or current clients is not acceptable. The section closes by outlining how to ethically navigate situations of in-person solicitation of services.\n\nThe record keeping and fees standard of the APA ethical standards is developed to guide psychologists in maintaining records of professional and scientific work in confidentiality. This standard states that maintaining records allow professionals to share information with other professionals if needed, help replicate research findings, and abide by the requirements of the institution and the law. In an event of an emergency, psychologists are not allowed to withhold records of clients who have failed to make payments. Psychologists are expected to arrange fees and financial arrangements in compliance with the law and accept barter only in situations that doing so, does not negatively impact the treatment. Psychologists are also expected to maintain and provide accurate reports of treatment, funding, and diagnostic details. This standard also emphasizes that psychologists should receive payment based on the services provided rather than the referral.\n\nThe education and training standard of the APA ethical standards is designed to help psychologists create high-quality programmes that train future psychologists with appropriate knowledge and practice. Psychologists creating education and training programmes are responsible for presenting clear descriptions of the programmes, including the pre-requirements for acceptance and the requirements for completion of the programme. Psychologists are expected to teach accurate and current material supported by scientific evidence. Psychologists should not require students to disclose any personal information, unless it is listed as a programme requirement, or to evaluate whether such experiences are negatively impacting a student's performance. If individual or group therapy is a requirement of the programme, the psychologists are responsible for allowing students to attend individual or group therapy outside of the programme. Furthermore, faculty members are not allowed to provide therapy services to the students. Supervisors are required to provide timely feedback to the students and supervisees based on their performance and the requirements of the programme. Psychologists involved in the programme are prohibited from engaging in sexual relationships with students and supervisees.\n\nThe research and publication standard of the APA ethical standards is developed to highlight research and publication ethics that psychologists are expected to adhere to. This standard emphasizes the necessity of approval by the institute prior to carrying out the research, providing accurate information about the research study, and carrying out the research in accordance with the approval. When obtaining informed consent, details of the study should be presented to the participants, including but not limited to, the objective of the study, the procedures, benefits and potential risks associated with the study, and the participants' right to decline to participate and withdraw from the study without any penalty. However, studies which are not expected to cause any harm, such as observing in a naturalistic environment, using anonymous questionnaires, or if permitted by the law, informed consent may not be necessary to be obtained. Compensation for participation should not be used to persuade an unwilling participant. At the conclusion of the study, each participant should be presented with a summary of the study and the participant should be provided with an opportunity to ask any questions he/she has. Further, if there has been some harm caused to the participant due to participation in the study, necessary steps should be followed to minimize the harm. This standard also provides guidelines and instructions on animal research. Psychologists are responsible for reporting accurate findings and taking necessary steps to correct any errors in research and publication. Psychologists are also required to only present original data as their work and share publication credits based on the contributions rather than authority. Psychologists are also expected to be willing to share research data when required for verification, and maintain confidentiality of the participants during the review process.\n\nThe assessment standard of the APA ethical standards is developed to broadly address guidelines on assessments. This standard states that the psychologist's views should be supported by findings from assessments, while reporting the limitations of assessments. If a viewpoint is not based on assessment results, psychologists should provide evidence to justify their judgment. Psychologists are responsible for using valid and reliable assessments that are administered in a preferred language by the client. Informed consent is expected to be obtained in accordance to the guidelines on the \"Informed Consent\" standard, unless the assessment is required by the law, a routine practice or required to test for the ability to make decisions. Psychologists using an interpreter are expected to obtain informed consent from the client for the use of an interpreter as well as maintain confidentiality and test security. Psychologists may refrain from releasing test data in order to protect a participant. Psychologists are also responsible for developing valid and reliable assessments and interpreting test results by taking other factors that may influence the interpretations while also indicating any limitations associated with the interpretations. Psychologists are required to be appropriately trained in order to administer assessments and are responsible for using current tests. Psychologists are also responsible for providing necessary information when outsourcing interpretation and the interpretation of test results. Psychologists are required to explain the test results to the client or other identified persons, unless otherwise specified. Psychologists are also required to maintain security and integrity in regards to all test material.\n\nThe therapy section of the APA ethical standards is broadly written to guide psychologists through various aspects of providing psychological services. Psychologists are required to obtain informed consent from clients prior to treatment by presenting sufficient details about the therapy technique, including how established the treatment is and whether a psychologist in training will be assisting the client. When psychologists are required to provide services in a group setting, psychologists are required to identify the role of the psychologist and notify the clients of the limitations of confidentiality. If a psychologist is required to provide services for a client already receiving mental health services from another professional, the psychologist is required to discuss with the client or other identified persons to minimize conflict and harm. Psychologists should not engage in sexual relationships with current clients or with those closely related to clients. Psychologists should not be sexually engaged with past clients within two years of termination and even after two years of termination, psychologists will have to provide enough details to ensure that this ethical standard is not violated by being involved with a past client. In the event of a termination of employment, necessary steps should be taken in order to ensure client care. Termination of therapy should occur when the client shows significant improvements, does not benefit further from treatment, is being harmed by the treatment, or the clinician is threatened by the client or a person related to the client. Psychologists are expected to prepare clients for termination and provide sources for alternative services.\n\n\"These rules should do much more than help the unethical psychologist keep out of trouble; they should be of palpable aid to the ethical psychologist in making daily decisions.\" —Nicholas Hobbs (1948, p. 81)\n\nThe first committee on Ethical Standards for Psychologists was developed in 1947 and chaired by Edward Tolman. The committee was created because psychologists were becoming more involved in professional activities and public works during and following World War II. To gain insight on what to include, the committee sought information from psychologists in the field. Psychologists discussed situations in which they felt they encountered ethical dilemmas.\n\nA second committee was formed and headed by Nicholas Hobbs. This 8-member committee was responsible for the creation of the first document. The committee used contributions from over 2,000 psychologists to create the first principles. The committee reviewed the situations submitted by psychologists to the first committee and attempted to organize the situations into themes. Themes that emerged reflected many of the political and social issues of the time including racial segregation, post-war politics, and the testing industry. The first version of the Ethical Standards of Psychologists was adopted in 1952 and published in 1953 by the American Psychological Association (APA). The document was over 170 pages in length. The first version contained many ethical dilemmas that psychologists had written about and submitted to the first committee as case examples.\n\nRevisions to the 1953 version continued over the decades until the most recent version which was published in 2002 and amended in 2010. Each revision has been guided by a set of objectives put forth by Hobbs in 1948: \"to express the best ethical practices in the field as judged by a large representative sample of members of the APA; to reflect an explicit value system as well as clearly articulated decisional and behavioral rules; to be applicable to the full range of activities and role relationships encountered in the work of psychologists; to have the broadest possible participation among psychologists in its development and revisions; and to influence the ethical conduct of psychologists by meriting widespread identification and acceptance among members of the discipline\".\n\nRevisions occurred over the years pertaining to many changes in society. Culture, politics, the legal system, the economy and the healthcare system have all been influential in the development of the past and current ethical codes. The case examples were also removed. Prior to 1981, there was no principle or standard that addressed conflict between law and ethics. One of the biggest changes occurred with the 1992 version of the code. Before this version, there was no distinction between principles and standards. This version was the first to make that distinction. The principles are considered to be aspirational while the standards are enforceable by agencies adopting them, including the APA.\n\nThe current version of the code was developed in 2002, became effective in 2003, and was amended in 2010. Amendments were made to the Introduction and Applicability Sections along with Standard 1.02 Conflicts Between Ethics and Law, Regulations, or Other Governing Legal Authority and Standard 1.03 Conflicts Between Ethics and Organizational Demands.\n\nPrevious revisions with changes indicated:\n\nConversion therapy (also referred to as reparative therapy) is the practice of attempting to change the patient’s sexual orientation to heterosexual. Among the most prominent supporters of conversion therapy is the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH), which continues to characterize homosexuality as a mental disorder, despite the declassification of homosexuality as a disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) in 1973. One of the most notable members of NARTH is founder and former president Dr. Joseph Nicolosi, who practices conversion therapy and has published case studies some of his clients.\n\nThe American Psychological Association (APA) task force report on appropriate therapeutic responses to sexual orientation concluded that conversion therapy was \"unlikely to be successful\" and involved \"some risk of harm\". Likewise, the U.S. Surgeon General issued a call to action in 2001, concluding that \"there is no valid scientific evidence that sexual orientation can be changed\".\n\nIn the task force's report, the APA recommends that therapists adopt an affirmative, supportive approach for clients who present for therapy to change their sexual orientation rather than attempting to convert their sexual orientation.\n\nCurrently, the APA enforces ethical standards to protect nonhuman animal subjects from unnecessary harm during the research process. Some of the requirements for using nonhuman animals in research include: proper justification of the research, maintenance and inspection of appropriate housing for the animals, minimizing discomfort and stress whenever possible, and preference of noninvasive measures.\n\nDespite these guidelines, however, many advocacy groups exist to either reduce or eliminate animal research, arguing that it is unethical to capture animals and subject them to research procedures. Indeed, a recent study showed that only 52% of the public approves of animal research. Some scientists believe that this low approval rate is primarily the result of receiving manipulative misinformation from anti-animal research groups.\n\nA current controversy among mental health professionals is the use of specific psychological treatments which are not strongly supported by research. Proponents of the evidence-based practice (EBP) movement argue that it is unethical to administer a therapeutic intervention with questionable research support (such as psychoanalysis) when another treatment's effectiveness has been demonstrated for the client's condition, particularly when the intervention in question is potentially harmful (such as conversion therapy). Proponents argue that administration of an empirically questionable treatment violates the general Principle A of the ethical principles of psychologist: Beneficence and nonmaleficence (or \"do no harm\").\n\nOpponents of the movement object that all psychotherapies are equally effective (termed \"the Dodo bird verdict\") and assert that restricting therapists to only evidence-based treatments limits opportunities to discover new techniques. Further complicating the issue is the fact that there is debate about what kind of evidence is needed to constitute \"good research support\" for or against a treatment.\n\nDuring the Iraq War, Amnesty International released a series of reports, calling attention to violations of the human rights of prisoners in Abu Ghraib Prison and American detention camps, and the role of the United States and the United Kingdom in enacting these abuses. The reports called on the occupying powers to protect the human rights of any detained civilians by giving them a fair and timely trial, not detaining civilians arbitrarily, and treating all people ethically while in detention. Amnesty International also called for justice, by trying individual perpetrators of abuse for their crimes.\n\nDespite these reports, the Bush administration instituted \"enhanced\" interrogation techniques, stating publicly that reported abuses were isolated incidents, and not standard practice. Internal memos from the Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed that an executive order by George W. Bush had sanctioned certain interrogation techniques, such as playing loud music, depriving prisoners of sleep, and stripping prisoners of their clothing.\n\nThe CIA reportedly required involvement from health professionals to continue its practice of \"enhanced\" interrogations on detainees, to maintain the lawfulness of their practices. Psychiatrists and medical doctors were reluctant to participate in interrogations, however some psychologists participated. A recently released report by a group of psychologists alleges the same, implicating a number of APA officials as well.\n\nAfter the abuses were made public, the APA created a task force called Psychological Ethics and National Security (PENS) and released a report stating that the APA Code of Ethics applies to psychologists working in any setting, and that psychologists do not facilitate or participate in any degrading or cruel behavior, referring back to the APA's 1986 Resolution Against Torture. The report also called on psychologists to report any suspected or observed inhumane treatment to the appropriate authorities and obey federal law.\n\n"}
{"id": "36257673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36257673", "title": "A Critique of Pure Tolerance", "text": "A Critique of Pure Tolerance\n\nA Critique of Pure Tolerance is a 1965 book by the philosopher Robert Paul Wolff, the sociologist Barrington Moore Jr., and the philosopher Herbert Marcuse, in which the authors discuss the political role of tolerance. The book has been described as \"peculiar\" by commentators, and its authors have been criticized for advocating intolerance and the suppression of dissenting opinions.\n\nThe book includes a foreword jointly written by its authors, and three other contributions, \"Beyond Tolerance\" by Robert Paul Wolff, \"Tolerance and the Scientific Outlook\" by Barrington Moore Jr., and \"Repressive Tolerance\", by Herbert Marcuse.\n\nThe authors explain that the book's title refers to the philosopher Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" (1781), and suggest that their ideas may resemble those of Kant. They note that they have different perspectives on philosophy, with Wolff accepting, and Marcuse opposing, the approach of analytic philosophy, and Moore being critical of philosophy in general. They write that the purpose of the book is to discuss the political role of tolerance and that despite their disagreements with each other they believe that \"the prevailing theory and practice of tolerance\" is hypocritical and conceals \"appalling political realities.\"\n\nWolff argues that tolerance should be studied \"by means of an analysis of the theory and practice of democratic pluralism.\"\n\nMarcuse argues that \"the realization of the objective of tolerance\" requires \"intolerance toward prevailing policies, attitudes, opinions, and the extension of tolerance to policies, attitudes, and opinions which are outlawed or suppressed.\" He makes the case for \"liberating tolerance\", which would consist of intolerance to right-wing movements and toleration of left-wing movements.\n\n\"A Critique of Pure Tolerance\" was published by Beacon Press in 1965. In 1969, it was published as a Beacon Paperback.\n\n\"A Critique of Pure Tolerance\" received a negative review from the sociologist Nathan Glazer in the \"American Sociological Review\". The book was also reviewed by the philosopher John Herman Randall Jr. in \"The Journal of Philosophy\" and L. Del Grosso Destreri in \"Studi di Sociologia\".\n\nGlazer described the book as \"peculiar\". He credited Marcuse with being open in his advocacy of intolerance, but accused Wolff of being incapable of distinguishing \"facts from theory\" in his criticisms of tolerance and pluralist democracy. He disagreed with Wolff's view that \"The application of the theory of pluralism always favors the groups in existence against those in formation\", maintaining that it was contradicted by many historical examples, including the civil rights movement of the 1950s, and described his views as \"politically naive.\" He accused Moore of advocating violence, and wrote that Marcuse appeared to support measures such as breaking up meetings and destroying the literature of his opponents. He considered it fortunate that \"the means by which he might impose his opinions are not terribly impressive.\"\n\nThe philosopher Maurice Cranston, writing in his anthology \"The New Left\" (1970), called \"A Critique of Pure Tolerance\" Marcuse's most popular and disturbing work to date. Cranston commented that the book was published, \"in a peculiar format, bound in black like a prayer book or missal and perhaps designed to compete with \"The Thoughts of Chairman Mao\" as devotional reading at student sit-ins.\"\n\nThe philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre, writing in \"Marcuse\" (1970), argued that Marcuse's theory of the right of revolutionary minorities to suppress opinions is dangerous both because it is false and because it is \"a doctrine which if it were widely held would be an effective barrier to any rational progress and liberation\". He accused Marcuse of having \"taken over from liberal and right-wing critics of the European revolutionary tradition a theory which they falsely ascribed to the left, but which was rarely held until Marcuse espoused it.\" He argued, against Marcuse, that the proper end of tolerance is not truth but rationality, and that Marcuse's proposals undermined the possibility of rationality and critical discussion. He also argued that Marcuse's case against tolerance made those radicals who espouse it \"allies of the very forces which they claim to attack.\" Ronald Bayer, writing in \"Homosexuality and American Psychiatry: The Politics of Diagnosis\" (1987), identified Marcuse's arguments about \"repressive tolerance\" as an influence on gay rights activists, who disrupted lectures by psychiatrists and refused to tolerate the views of their opponents as they campaigned for homosexuality to be declassified as a mental disorder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32080425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080425", "title": "Analytical feminism", "text": "Analytical feminism\n\nAnalytical feminism is a line of philosophy that applies analytic concepts and methods to feminist issues and applies feminist concepts and insights to issues that have traditionally been of interest to analytic philosophers. Like all feminists, analytical feminists insist on recognizing and contesting sexism and androcentrism.\n\nThe term “analytical feminism” dates back to the early 1990s when the Society for Analytical Feminism was opened in at the University of Massachusetts Lowell. It is used as an opportunity to discuss and examine issues concerning analytical feminism, in part to contrast the more prevalent influences of postmodernism and post-structuralism, and also to demonstrate that analytic philosophy is neither inherently or irredeemably male-biased. Analytic feminists have attempted to rehabilitate certain key concepts, such as truth, reason, objectivity, agency and autonomy, both because they are normatively compelling as well as in some ways liberating and empowering for women. Not limited to these concepts, analytical feminism has contributed to the historical arena of analytic philosophy such as the philosophy of language, epistemology, metaphysics and the philosophy of science.\n\nIn 1995, the American philosophical magazine \"Hypatia\" published a special issue clarifying the meaning of analytic feminism in the mainstream Anglo-American analytical context and in the range of feminist philosophical positions. In this issue, the authors such as Ann Cudd of the University of Kansas, Ann Garry of California State University Los Angeles, and Lynn Hankinson Nelson of the University of Washington proposed that analytic feminism typically was unrecognized and somewhat depreciated by not only analytical philosophers but academic feminist agenda as well. Considered a sub-category of both analytic philosophy, and feminism, analytic feminism acknowledge the philosophical traditions of both fields while simultaneously addressing prominent issues within said fields.\n\nAnalytical feminism, as defined by Ann E. Cudd: \"Analytic feminism holds that the best way to counter sexism and androcentrism is through forming a clear conception of and pursuing truth, logical consistency, objectivity, rationality, justice, and the good while recognising that these notions have often been perverted by androcentrism throughout the history of philosophy.\" (1996: 20) Analytic feminists engage the literature traditionally thought of as analytic philosophy, but also draw on other traditions in philosophy as well as work by feminists working in other disciplines, especially sociology and biology. They, like most analytic philosophers, value clarity and precision in argument and tend to use more rigorously structured logical and linguistic analysis in reaching their conclusions and positions as compared to other philosophical approaches.\n\nThe majority of philosophers, including feminist philosophers, have at least some formal training in analytic philosophy, with some possessing extensive education and experience regarding analyticity. There has been a conscious effort to use the word ‘analytical’, the reason being that within the field of philosophy there is sometimes an inclination to assume all feminist work as tied to other methods to philosophy, whereas upon review much of the work in feminism is closer in method to analytic conventions.\n\nAccording to most analytic feminists, the best method for scholars to counter sexism and androcentrism in their respective areas of inquiry is by forming a clear conception of and practicing logical consistency and neutrality.\n\nEven though analytical feminists retain only some traditional concepts, it is not doctrinaire—indeed, there is even a spirit of contrarianism within it. Nevertheless, analytic feminists share a thing that we may call a \"core desire\" rather than a core principle, that is to say, the need to hold on to enough of the essential normative notions of the modern European tradition to aid the kind of normativity which is necessary for both feminist political theory and philosophy. This \"core desire\" finds its appearance by means of the core concepts of analytical feminism.\n\nAnalytic feminists' use of core ideas and their excerpt to the work of traditional analytic philosophers permit them to communicate with and build bridges amongst different types of scholars, for example, traditional analytic philosophers, other feminist philosophers, and, in some cases, scientists or scholars in social studies.\n\nOne tenet of analytic feminism holds that if philosophers positions are applicable universally, they must be usable by men and women alike, and from a range of social situations. This is a basis for what can be considered the reconstruction of philosophy via analytic feminism. This approach, which somewhat mirrors the construction of feminist philosophy tradition, attempts to limit the creation of areas or categories of philosophy that apply to only some women and feminists. It's an attempt to apply to 'all' (men and women) instead of 'some' (women and/or feminists) with specific examples of topics being feminine ethics, gynocentric ethics, or lesbian ethics. The basis for this universal approach would be an analytic feminist ethics and metaphysics which would create and establish a new criterion of adequacy for the fields of ethics and metaphysics. The goal of Miranda Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby, editors of \"The Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy\", is to have this position included in the mainstream of the discipline (Fricker and Hornsby 2000).\n\nNot basing the approach on any 'essential' characteristics, be they experiences or otherwise, it can maintain the importance of a variety of perspectives, while crafting a 'working' theory. 'Working' is defined as being particularly inclusive, of both men and women, but also simultaneously eliminating oppressive consequences. A wide range of experiences, interests, and background must be reflected with the theory 'working' only if it is applicable to all these issues and concerns.\n\nThere are a variety of approaches regarding the reconstruction of philosophy within analytic feminism. Some philosophers, such as Bailey (Bailey 2010) and Gary (Garry 2012), include the use of intersectionality in their approach. Miranda Fricker (2007) and Kristie Dotson (2011) make use of concept of Privilege (social inequality) in theirs, particularly with regard to epistemic ignorance and epistemic injustice. In 2018, Alice Crary offered a critique of some of these recent trends in analytic feminism.\n\n"}
{"id": "8084790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8084790", "title": "Andrew Feenberg", "text": "Andrew Feenberg\n\nAndrew Feenberg (born 1943) is an American philosopher. He holds the Canada Research Chair in the Philosophy of Technology in the School of Communication at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver. His main interests are philosophy of technology, continental philosophy, critique of technology and science and technology studies.\n\nFeenberg studied philosophy under Herbert Marcuse at the University of California, San Diego and was awarded his PhD in 1972. During this time Feenberg was active in the New Left, founding a journal entitled \"Alternatives\" and participating in the May '68 events in Paris.\n\nFeenberg's primary contribution to the philosophy of technology is his argument for the democratic transformation of technology. From his book \"Transforming Technology,\" \nFeenberg provides the theoretical foundation for this idea through the Critical Theory of Technology which he develops over three books: \"The Critical Theory of Technology\" (1991) (re-published as \"Transforming Technology: A Critical Theory Revisited\" [2002]), \"Alternative Modernity: The Technical Turn in Philosophy and Social Theory\" (1995), and \"Questioning Technology\" (1999). The basis of Feenberg's critical theory of technology is a concept of dialectical technological rationality he terms instrumentalization theory. Instrumentalization theory combines the social critique of technology familiar from the philosophy of technology (Karl Marx, Herbert Marcuse, Martin Heidegger, Jacques Ellul) with insights taken from the empirical case studies of science and technology studies. Applications of his theory include studies of online education, the Minitel, the Internet, and digital games.\n\nFeenberg has also published books and articles on the philosophy of Herbert Marcuse, Martin Heidegger, Jürgen Habermas, Karl Marx, Georg Lukacs, and Kitarō Nishida.\n\nAuthor\n\nEditor\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28394453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28394453", "title": "Basava purana", "text": "Basava purana\n\nThe Basava Purana is a 13th-century Telugu epic poem. It was written by Palkuriki Somanatha. It is a sacred text of Lingayat. The epic poem narrates the life story of philosopher and social reformer Basava (1134–1196 CE), the founder of <nowiki>Lingayat</nowiki> . He is also known by several other names such as Basavanna, Basaweshwara, Basavesha, and Basavaraja. It is also an anthology of several Lingayat saints (also known as Shiva Sharanas, devotees of Lord Shiva) and their philosophies. In contrast to campu style (poems in verse of various metres interspersed with paragraphs of prose), Somanatha adopted the desi (native) style and composed the purana in dwipada (couplets), a meter popular in oral tradition and closely related to folk songs. \n\nLater in 1369 A.D., it was translated to Kannada language by Bhima Kavi, this version contains detailed description and in time was considered his standard biography.There are several Kannada and Sanskrit Lingayath puranas inspired by Bhima Kavi's Basava Purana.\n\nThis Telugu purana was first translated into English by C.P. Brown, a British administrator in colonial south India, in 1863.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16022112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16022112", "title": "Berthold of Moosburg", "text": "Berthold of Moosburg\n\nBerthold of Moosburg (died after 1361) was a German Dominican theologian and neo-Platonist of the 14th century, teaching in Regensburg in 1327.\n\nHis \"Expositio super Elementationem theologicam Procli\", written between 1340 and 1361, was a major statement of the importance for Platonism of Proclus. He opposed his Christian-Platonic synthesis to Aristotelian philosophy. His sources included Theodoric of Freiberg and Albertus Magnus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858306", "title": "Book of Nepos", "text": "Book of Nepos\n\nThe Book of Nepos is a lost 3rd century Christian text written by an Egyptian bishop Nepos, which advocated for a strictly literal interpretation of the Bible against allegorical readings. This included especially a literal reading of the Book of Revelation, a minority position at the time.\n\nThe \"Book of Nepos\" no longer exists, and is known only indirectly through Eusebius, who quoted a work by Dionysius of Alexandria criticizing Nepos.\n\nNepos was a strict literalist (believing the entire Bible is true in a literal sense), and his text, also known as the Refutation of the Allegorisers or Refutation of the Allegorists was aimed at refuting the arguments of those who held that certain sections of the Bible were mere allegory. In particular, the text is aimed at discrediting the position, held by a minority of Christians at the time, that the book of Revelation should be interpreted allegorically rather than literally.\n\nAmongst the teachings in the text is the belief that Jesus would come to earth and physically reign as monarch for 1000 years during an age of righteous delight. This belief was regarded as fairly orthodox in the early church (e.g. it was held by Irenaeus, and Justin Martyr), however, the later church came to view Revelation as more allegorical. Indeed, Dionysius of Alexandria felt moved to write a text (\"On the Promises\") against it, although he regarded Nepos highly and attempted to criticize the doctrine without insulting Nepos personally.\n\nThe \"Book of Nepos\" was so popular within the villages around Alexandria that Dionysius went there in person to refute it. In deference to Nepos and the prior orthodoxy of strict literalism, he did so politely, entering a respectful dialogue with those from the village and contesting each of the arguments they took from the \"Book of Nepos\" in turn.\n"}
{"id": "16993577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16993577", "title": "Center for the Study of New Testament Manuscripts", "text": "Center for the Study of New Testament Manuscripts\n\nThe Center for the Study of New Testament Manuscripts (CSNTM) is a non-profit organization set out to preserve ancient manuscripts of the New Testament. This aim is accomplished by taking high resolution digital photographs of all extant Greek New Testament manuscripts. The organization was founded by Daniel B. Wallace, a professor at Dallas Theological Seminary, in Texas on September 13, 2002, and acts under the umbrella of The Center for the Research of Early Christian Documents (CRECD). Wallace is the executive director of CSNTM. \n\nWallace has said the goal of the center is to photograph 1.3 million leaves of Greek New Testament manuscripts, and estimates this goal will not be reached until 2020. The CSNTM team has already photographed manuscripts in Constantinople at the Ecumenical Patriarchate of the Orthodox Church; the Institut für neutestamentliche Textforschung (INTF) in Münster, Germany; Tübingen University, Germany; the Monastery of St. John the Theologian on the island of Patmos, Greece; the National Archive in Tirana, Albania; the University of Michigan; several colleges at Cambridge University; University of Glasgow; Gennadius Library; Biblioteca Medicea Laurenziana, The Chester Beatty Library, various locations throughout Greece, and other sites. The Center and Wallace have also examined manuscripts in Vienna, Cologne, Florence, Berlin, at St. Catherine’s Monastery (Sinai), The Vatican, Cambridge University, Oxford University, the University of Dresden, Harvard University, the British Library, Princeton University, and several other sites.\n\nThe activity of CSNTM is limited by several factors, including international law, finances, and the traditional thinking of the other institutions regarding the copying of valuable manuscripts. In spite of these difficulties CSNTM has digital images of:\n\nAlthough the primary focus of the CSNTM is digital preservation of New Testament manuscripts, it also works with printed books related to textual criticism such as von Soden's Greek New Testament (\"Die Schriften des Neuen Testaments, in ihrer ältesten erreichbaren Textgestalt hergestellt auf Grund ihrer Textgeschichte,\" Verlag von Arthur Glaue, Berlin 1902-1910). CSNTM holds also one manuscript of New Testament, Gregory-Aland minuscule 2882, a 10th- or 11th-century copy of Luke’s Gospel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "346938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346938", "title": "Cheri Huber", "text": "Cheri Huber\n\nCheri Huber (born c. 1944) is an American meditation teacher in the Sōtō School of Zen Buddhism tradition.\n\nHuber is the founder and guiding teacher of Zen Monastery Peace Center located in Murphys, California, which was constructed in 1993. The plot of land was purchased in 1987, with . She was raised in the San Francisco Bay area and likely studied Zen for some time under Jay DuPont. Writer Anna Kaplan says that Huber had once desired to live in a cabin in the woods in isolation of the world, but was encouraged by another teacher to teach Zen. The name of this teacher is not indicated. She founded her first Zen center in 1983 in Mountain View, California, which has since moved to Palo Alto under the name Palo Alto Zen Center. In 1997, Huber founded Living Compassion, a nonprofit organization dedicated to peace and service.\n\nThere have been some questions raised about her authority to teach Zen from some members of the Zen community. Author James Ishmael Ford writes of her, \"Perhaps the most prominent of apparently self-declared teachers is the widely read author and meditation teacher Cheri Huber. Huber may have studied briefly with Jay DuPont...but it is not clear that she was authorized to teach by him or anyone else as a Zen teacher.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30878", "title": "Chicken or the egg", "text": "Chicken or the egg\n\nThe chicken or the egg causality dilemma is commonly stated as \"which came first: the chicken or the egg?\". The dilemma stems from the observation that all chickens hatch from eggs and all chicken eggs are laid by chickens. \"Chicken-and-egg\" is a metaphoric adjective describing situations where it is not clear which of two events should be considered the \"cause\" and which should be considered the \"effect\", or to express a scenario of infinite regress. Plutarch posed the question as a philosophical matter in his essay \"The Symposiacs\", written in the 1st century CE.\n\nThe question represents an ancient folk paradox addressing the problem of origins and first cause. Aristotle, writing in the fourth century B.C., concluded that this was an infinite sequence, with no true origin. Plutarch, writing four centuries later, specifically highlighted this question as bearing on a \"great and weighty problem (whether the world had a beginning).\" In the fifth century CE, Macrobius wrote that while the question seemed trivial, it \"should be regarded as one of importance.\"\n\nBy the end of the 16th century, the well-known question seemed to have been regarded as settled in the Christian world, based on the origin story of the Bible. In describing the creation of animals, it allows for a first chicken that did not come from an egg. However, later enlightenment philosophers began to question this solution.\n\nAlthough the question is typically used metaphorically, evolutionary biology provides literal answers, made possible by the Darwinian principle that species evolve over time, and thus that chickens had ancestors that were not chickens, similar to a view expressed by the Greek philosopher Anaximander when addressing the paradox.\n\nIf the question refers to eggs in general, the egg came first. The first amniote egg—that is, a hard-shelled egg that could be laid on land, rather than remaining in water like the eggs of fish or amphibians—appeared around 312 million years ago. In contrast, chickens are domesticated descendants of red junglefowl and probably arose little more than eight thousand years ago, at most.\n\nIf the question refers to \"chicken\" eggs specifically, the answer is still the egg, but the explanation is more complicated. The process by which the chicken arose through the interbreeding and domestication of multiple species of wild jungle fowl is poorly understood, and the point at which this evolving organism became a chicken is a somewhat arbitrary distinction. Whatever criteria one chooses, an animal nearly identical to the modern chicken (i.e., a proto-chicken) laid a fertilized egg that had DNA identical to the modern chicken (due to mutations in the mother's ovum, the father's sperm, or the fertilised zygote). Put more simply by Neil deGrasse Tyson: \"Which came first: the chicken or the egg? The egg—laid by a bird that was not a chicken.\"\n\nAlternatively, if the question refers specifically to the chicken egg as it exists today, the answer may be different. Chickens produce a protein, ovocleidin-17 (OC-17), that is expressed in the uterus and causes the formation of the thickened calcium carbonate shell around modern chicken eggs. Because OC-17 is expressed by the hen and not the egg, the bird in which the protein first arose, though having hatched from a non-reinforced egg, would then have laid the first egg having such a reinforced shell: the chicken would have preceded this first \"modern\" chicken egg. This is only the case, however, if OC-17 arose after the domestication of their wild-fowl ancestors gave rise to chickens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9033", "title": "Dictatorship", "text": "Dictatorship\n\nA dictatorship is an authoritarian form of government, characterized by a single leader or group of leaders with either no party or a weak party, little mass mobilization, and limited political pluralism. According to other definitions, democracies are regimes in which \"those who govern are selected through contested elections\"; therefore dictatorships are \"not democracies\". With the advent of the 19th and 20th centuries, dictatorships and constitutional democracies emerged as the world's two major forms of government, gradually eliminating monarchies, one of the traditional widespread forms of government of the time. Typically, in a dictatorial regime, the leader of the country is identified with the title of dictator, although their formal title may more closely resemble something similar to \"leader\". A common aspect that characterized dictators is taking advantage of their strong personality, usually by suppressing freedom of thought and speech of the masses, in order to maintain political and social supremacy and stability. Dictatorship and totalitarian societies generally employ political propaganda to decrease the influence of proponents of alternative governing systems.\n\nThe word \"dictator\" comes from the classical Latin language word \"dictātor\", agent noun from \"dictare (dictāt-\", past participial stem of \"dictāre\" dictate \"v.\" + \"-or\" -or \"suffix\".) In Latin use, a \"dictator\" was a judge in the Roman republic temporarily invested with absolute power.\n\nRight after the end of World War II, with a more relaxed political and social climate, several studies regarding the classification of various forms of government have been conducted. Among these, has been intensely discussed by historians and political scientists the conceptualization and definition of the dictatorship form of government. Eventually, it has been concluded that dictatorship is a form of government in which the absolute power is concentrated in the hands of a leader (commonly identified as a dictator), a \"small clique\", or a \"government organization\", and it aims the abolition of political pluralism and civilian mobilization. On the other hand, democracy, which is generally compared to the concept of dictatorship, is defined as a form of government where the supremacy belongs to the population and rulers are elected through contested elections.\n\nA new form of government that, in the 20th century, marked the beginning of a new political era and is commonly linked to the concept of dictatorship, is known as totalitarianism. This form of government is characterized by the presence of a single political party and more specifically, by a powerful leader (a real role model) who imposes his personal and political prominence. The two fundamental aspects that contribute to the maintenance of the power are: a steadfast collaboration between the government and the police force, and a highly developed ideology. Here, the government has \"total control of mass communications and social and economic organizations\". According to Hannah Arendt, totalitarianism is a new and extreme form of dictatorship composed of \"atomized, isolated individuals\". In addition, she affirmed that ideology plays a leading role in defining how the entire society should be organized. According to the political scientist Juan Linz, the distinction between an authoritarian regime and a totalitarian one is that while an authoritarian regime seeks to suffocate politics and political mobilization, totalitarianism seeks to control politics and political mobilization.\n\nHowever, one of the most recent classification of dictatorships, formulated, do not identify Totalitarianism as a form of dictatorship. In her study, she focused in how elite-leader and elite-mass relations influence authoritarian politics. Geddes typology identifies the key institutions that structure elite politics in dictatorships (i.e. parties and militaries). The study is based and directly related to factors like: the simplicity of the categorizations, cross-national applicability, the emphasis on elites and leaders, and the incorporation of institutions (parties and militaries) as central to shaping politics. According to Barbara Geddes, a dictatorial government may be classified in five typologies: Military Dictatorships, Single-party Dictatorships, Personalist Dictatorships, Monarchies, Hybrid Dictatorships.\n\nMilitary dictatorships are regimes in which a group of officers holds power, determines who will lead the country, and exercises influence over policy. High-level elites and a leader are the members of the military dictatorship. Military dictatorships are characterized by rule by a professionalized military as an institution. In military regimes, elites are referred to as junta members; they are typically senior officers (and often other high-level officers) in the military.\n\nSingle-party dictatorships are regimes in which one party dominates politics. In single-party dictatorships, a single party has access to political posts and control over policy. Other parties may legally exist, compete in elections, and even hold legislative seats, yet true political power lies with the dominant party. In single-party dictatorships, party elites are typically members of the ruling body of the party, sometimes called the central committee, politburo, or secretariat. These groups of individuals controls the selection of party officials and “organizes the distribution of benefits to supporters and mobilizes citizens to vote and show support for party leaders\".\n\nPersonalist dictatorships are regimes in which all power lies in the hands of a single individual. Personalist dictatorships differ from other forms of dictatorships in their access to key political positions, other fruits of office, and depend much more on the discretion of the personalist dictator. Personalist dictators may be members of the military or leaders of a political party. Yet, neither the military nor the party exercises power independent from the dictator. In personalist dictatorships, the elite corps is usually made up of close friends or family members of the dictator. These individuals are all typically handpicked to serve their posts by the dictator.\n\nMonarchic dictatorships are regimes in which \"a person of royal descent has inherited the position of head of state in accordance with accepted practice or constitution\". Regimes are not considered dictatorships if the monarch’s role is largely ceremonial but absolute monarchies, such as Saudi Arabia can be considered hereditary dictatorships. Real political power must be exercised by the monarch for regimes to be classified as such. Elites in monarchies are typically members of the royal family.\n\nHybrid dictatorships are regimes that blend qualities of personalist, singleparty, and military dictatorships. When regimes share characteristics of all three forms of dictatorships, they are referred to as triple threats. The most common forms of hybrid dictatorships are personalist/single-party hybrids and personalist/military hybrids.\n\nOne of the tasks in political science is to measure and classify regimes as either dictatorships or democracies. Freedom House, Polity IV and Democracy-Dictatorship Index are three of the most used data series by political scientists.\n\nGenerally, two research approaches exist: the minimalist approach, which focuses on whether a country has continued elections that are competitive, and the substantive approach, which expands the concept of democracy to include human rights, freedom of the press, and the rule of law. The Democracy-Dictatorship Index is seen as an example of the minimalist approach, whereas the Polity data series, is more substantive.\n\nBetween the two world wars, four types of dictatorships have been described: Constitutional, Communist (nominally championing the \"dictatorship of the proletariat\"), Counterrevolutionary and Fascist. Since World War II, a broader range of dictatorships has been recognized, including Third World dictatorships, theocratic or religious dictatorships and dynastic or family-based dictatorships.\n\nDuring the Republican phase of Ancient Rome, a Roman dictator was the special magistrate who held well defined powers, normally for six months at a time, usually in combination with a consulship. Roman dictators were allocated absolute power during times of emergency. In execution, their power was originally neither arbitrary nor unaccountable, being subject to law and requiring retrospective justification. There were no such dictatorships after the beginning of the 2nd century BC and later dictators such as Sulla and the Roman Emperors exercised power much more personally and arbitrarily. As the Roman Emperor was a king in all but name, a concept that remained anathema to traditional Roman society, the institution was not carried forward into the Roman Empire.\n\nAfter the collapse of Spanish colonial rule, various dictators came to power in many liberated countries. Often leading a private army, these \"caudillos\" or self-appointed political-military leaders, attacked weak national governments once they controlled a region's political and economic powers, with examples such as Antonio López de Santa Anna in Mexico and Juan Manuel de Rosas in Argentina. Such dictators have been also referred to as \"personalismos\".\n\nThe wave of military dictatorships in South America in the second half of the twentieth century left a particular mark on Latin American culture. In Latin American literature, the dictator novel challenging dictatorship and \"caudillismo\" is a significant genre. There are also many films depicting Latin American military dictatorships.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, Communist and Fascist dictatorships appeared in a variety of scientifically and technologically advanced countries, which are distinct from dictatorships in Latin America and post-colonial dictatorships in Africa and Asia. Leading examples of modern totalitarian dictatorship include:\n\nAfter World War II, dictators established themselves in the several new states of Africa and Asia, often at the expense or failure of the constitutions inherited from the colonial powers. These constitutions often failed to work without a strong middle class or work against the preexisting autocratic rule. Some elected presidents and prime ministers captured power by suppressing the opposition and installing one-party rule and others established military dictatorships through their armies. Whatever their form, these dictatorships had an adverse impact on economic growth and the quality of political institutions. Dictators who stayed in office for a long period of time found it increasingly difficult to carry out sound economic policies.\n\nThe often-cited exploitative dictatorship is the regime of Mobutu Sese Seko, who ruled Zaire from 1965 to 1997, embezzling over $5 billion from his country.\n\nThe global dynamics of democratization has been a central question for political scientists. The Third Wave Democracy was said to turn some dictatorships into democracies (see also the contrast between the two figures of the Democracy-Dictatorship Index in 1988 and 2008).\n\nMancur Olson suggests that the emergence of dictatorships can be linked to the concept of \"roving bandits\", individuals in an atomic system who move from place to place extracting wealth from individuals. These bandits provide a disincentive for investment and production. Olson states that a community of individuals would be better served if that bandit were to establish himself as a stationary bandit to monopolize theft in the form of taxes. Except from the community, the bandits themselves will be better served, according to Olson, by transforming themselves into \"stationary bandits\". By settling down and making themselves the rulers of a territory, they will be able to make more profits through taxes than they used to obtain through plunder. By maintaining order and providing protection to the community, the bandits will create a peaceful environment in which their people can maximize their surplus which means a greater taxable base. Thus a potential dictator will have a greater incentive to provide security to a given community from which he is extracting taxes and conversely, the people from whom he extracts the taxes are more likely to produce because they will be unconcerned with potential theft by other bandits. This is the rationality that bandits use in order to justify their transformation from \"roving bandits\" into \"stationary bandits\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41899489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41899489", "title": "Diego Mateo Zapata", "text": "Diego Mateo Zapata\n\nDiego Mateo Zapata (1664-1745) was a Spanish physician and philosopher. In 1724, he and Juan Muñoz y Peralta were both denounced to the Spanish Inquisition as judaisers. Spanish philosopher Diego Mateo Zapata was tortured during the Inquisition for following and endorsing the teachings of Judaism. .\n\n"}
{"id": "4324277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4324277", "title": "Divino afflante Spiritu", "text": "Divino afflante Spiritu\n\nDivino afflante Spiritu (\"Inspired by the Holy Spirit\") is a papal encyclical letter issued by Pope Pius XII on 30 September 1943 calling for new translations of the Bible from the original languages, instead of the Latin Vulgate of Jerome, which was revised multiple times and had formed the textual basis for all Catholic vernacular translations until then. It inaugurated the modern period of Roman Catholic biblical studies by encouraging the study of textual criticism (or \"lower criticism\"), pertaining to text of the Scriptures themselves and transmission thereof (for example, to determine correct readings) and permitted the use of the historical-critical method (or \"higher criticism\"), to be informed by theology, Sacred Tradition, and ecclesiastical history on the historical circumstances of the text, hypothesizing about matters such as authorship, dating, and similar concerns. The eminent Catholic biblical scholar Raymond E. Brown described it as a \"Magna Carta for biblical progress\".\n\nThe encyclical appeared on the 50th anniversary of \"Providentissimus Deus\", an 1893 encyclical in which Pope Leo XIII condemned the use of higher criticism. Pius XII noted that advances had been made in archaeology and historical research, which made it advisable to further define the study of the Bible.\n\nPreviously, Catholic translations of the Bible into modern languages were usually based on the Latin Vulgate, the text used in the Liturgy. They generally referred back to the source texts (in Biblical Hebrew, Biblical Aramaic and Biblical Greek) only to clarify the exact meaning of the Latin text.\n\nIn his encyclical, Pius stressed the importance of diligent study of the original languages and other cognate languages to arrive at a deeper and fuller knowledge of the meaning of the sacred texts:\nNewer Catholic translations of the Bible have been based directly on the texts found in manuscripts in the original languages, taking into account as well the ancient translations that sometimes clarify what seem to be transcription errors in those manuscripts. However, the Latin Vulgate remains the official Bible in the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5725671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5725671", "title": "Doug Walton", "text": "Doug Walton\n\nDouglas Neil Walton is a Canadian academic and author, known for his books and papers on argumentation, logical fallacies and informal logic. He is presently Distinguished Research Fellow of the Centre for Research in Reasoning, Argumentation, and Rhetoric (CRRAR) at the University of Windsor, Ontario, Canada, and before that (2008–14), he held the Assumption Chair of Argumentation Studies at the University of Windsor. Walton’s work has been used to better prepare legal arguments and to help develop artificial intelligence.\n\nA special issue of the journal \"Informal Logic\" surveyed Walton’s contributions to informal logic and argumentation theory up to 2006.\n\nWalton earned his PhD from the University of Toronto in 1972.\n\nWalton’s work represents a distinctive approach built around a set of practical methods to help a user identify, analyze and evaluate arguments in specialized areas such as law and science, as well as arguments of the kind used in everyday conversational discourse. Walton has called this approach logical argumentation, and as a method it has twelve defining characteristics, shown below in a simplified list. \n\nIn the method, schemes work as heuristic devices that only offer presumptive support of a claim that may have to be withdrawn as new evidence comes in. The schemes connect arguments together into sequences, often called chaining, by taking the conclusion of one argument as a premise in a subsequent argument. Some common schemes are argument from goal-based reasoning, argument from negative consequences, argument from positive consequences, inference to the best explanation (abductive reasoning), argument from sign, argument from analogy, argument from precedent, argument from an established rule, argument from evidence to a hypothesis, argument from cause to effect, argument from correlation to cause, argument from sunk costs, argument from threat, argument from perception, argument from witness testimony, argument from expert opinion, argument from ignorance, argument from commitment, direct ad hominem argument, argument from inconsistency of commitments, slippery slope argument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "243412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243412", "title": "Eclecticism", "text": "Eclecticism\n\nEclecticism is a conceptual approach that does not hold rigidly to a single paradigm or set of assumptions, but instead draws upon multiple theories, styles, or ideas to gain complementary insights into a subject, or applies different theories in particular cases. However, this is often without conventions or rules dictating how or which theories were combined.\n\nIt can sometimes seem inelegant or lacking in simplicity, and eclectics are sometimes criticized for lack of consistency in their thinking. It is, however, common in many fields of study. For example, most psychologists accept certain aspects of behaviorism, but do not attempt to use the theory to explain all aspects of human behavior.\n\nEclecticism in ethics, philosophy and religion is also known as syncretism.\n\nEclecticism was first recorded to have been practiced by a group of ancient Greek and Roman philosophers who attached themselves to no real system, but selected from existing philosophical beliefs those doctrines that seemed most reasonable to them. Out of this collected material they constructed their new system of philosophy. The term comes from the Greek (\"eklektikos\"), literally \"choosing the best\", and that from (\"eklektos\"), \"picked out, select\". Well known eclectics in Greek philosophy were the Stoics Panaetius and Posidonius, and the New Academics Carneades and Philo of Larissa. Among the Romans, Cicero was thoroughly eclectic, as he united the Peripatetic, Stoic, and New Academic doctrines. Other eclectics included Varro and Seneca the Younger.\n\nThe term eclecticism is used to describe the combination, in a single work, of elements from different historical styles, chiefly in architecture and, by implication, in the fine and decorative arts. The term is sometimes also loosely applied to the general stylistic variety of 19th-century architecture after neoclassicism (), although the revivals of styles in that period have, since the 1970s, generally been referred to as aspects of historicism.\n\nEclecticism plays an important role in critical discussions and evaluations but is somehow distant from the actual forms of the artifacts to which it is applied, and its meaning is thus rather indistinct. The simplest definition of the term—that every work of art represents the combination of a variety of influences—is so basic as to be of little use. In some ways Eclecticism is reminiscent of Mannerism in that the term was used pejoratively for much of the period of its currency, although, unlike Mannerism, Eclecticism never amounted to a movement or constituted a specific style: it is characterized precisely by the fact that it was not a particular style.\n\nSome martial arts can be described as eclectic in the sense that they borrow techniques from a wide variety of other martial arts.\n\nIn textual criticism, eclecticism is the practice of examining a wide number of text witnesses and selecting the variant that seems best. The result of the process is a text with readings drawn from many witnesses. In a purely eclectic approach, no single witness is theoretically favored. Instead, the critic forms opinions about individual witnesses, relying on both external and internal evidence.\n\nSince the mid-19th century, eclecticism, in which there is no \"a priori\" bias to a single manuscript, has been the dominant method of editing the Greek text of the New Testament (currently, the United Bible Society, 4th ed. and Nestle-Aland, 27th ed.). Even so, the oldest manuscripts, being of the Alexandrian text-type, are the most favored, and the critical text has an Alexandrian disposition.\n\nIn ancient philosophy, the Eclectics use elements from multiple philosophies, texts, life experiences and their own philosophical ideas. These ideas include life as connected with existence, knowledge, values, reason, mind, and language. Antiochus of Ascalon (), was the pupil of Philo of Larissa, and the teacher of Cicero. Through his influence, Platonism made the transition from New Academy skepticism to Eclecticism. Whereas Philo had still adhered to the doctrine that there is nothing absolutely certain, Antiochus returned to a pronounced dogmatism. Among his other objections to skepticism was the consideration that without firm convictions no rational content of life is possible. Antiochus pointed out that it is a contradiction to assert that nothing can be asserted or to prove that nothing can be proved; that we cannot speak of false ideas and at the same time deny the distinction between false and true. He expounded the Academic, Peripatetic, and Stoic systems in such a way as to show that these three schools deviate from one another only in minor points. Antiochus himself was chiefly interested in ethics, in which he tried to find a middle way between Zeno, Aristotle, and Plato. For instance, he said that virtue suffices for happiness, but for the highest grade of happiness bodily and external goods are necessary as well.\n\nThis eclectic tendency was favoured by the lack of dogmatic works by Plato. Middle Platonism was promoted by the necessity of considering the main theories of the post-Platonic schools of philosophy, such as the Aristotelian logic and the Stoic psychology and ethics (theory of goods and emotions). On the one hand the Middle Platonists were engaged like the later Peripatetics in scholarly activities such as the exposition of Plato's doctrines and the explanation of his dialogues; on the other hand they attempted to develop the Platonic theories systematically. In so far as it was subject in this to the influence of Neopythagoreanism, it was of considerable importance in preparing the way for Neoplatonism.\n\nIn modern philosophy, Victor Cousin was the founder of eclectic spiritualism.\n\nEclecticism is recognized in approaches to psychology that see many factors influencing behavior and cognition or psyche. In the 1970s, psychologists started using whichever approaches and techniques that they deemed appropriate for their client. They take multiple perspectives into consideration while identifying, explaining, and changing the behavior of the client.\n\n"}
{"id": "2305982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305982", "title": "Ethical Consumer", "text": "Ethical Consumer\n\nEthical Consumer is a not-for-profit UK magazine and website which publishes information on the social, ethical and environmental behaviour of companies and issues around trade justice and ethical consumerism. It was founded in 1989 by Rob Harrison and Jane Turner.\n\nThe mission of the \"Ethical Consumer\" is to promote \"a society where the environment is respected, where human rights are properly protected and where animals are no longer cruelly exploited.\" The Ethical Consumer publishes reports and calls for boycotts of companies deemed unethical by its findings.\n\n\"Ethical Consumer\" magazine and its associated websites are produced by the Ethical Consumer Research Association (ECRA). Between 1989 and 2009 ECRA was a worker co-operative, based in Manchester, UK. In 2009 ECRA became a not-for-profit multi-stakeholder co-operative consisting of worker members and investor/subscriber members. It is an industrial and provident society.\n\n\"Ethical Consumer\" publishes a company ratings tables which rate various products across 19 criteria. The data behind the ratings tables is produced by research into the social, ethical and environmental records of companies, using media reporting, NGO reports, corporate communications and primary research.\n\nThe Corporate Critic website provides access to ECRA's database, tracking over 30,000 companies, providing information such as rating, ownership structure and turnover.\n\nECRA also undertakes consultancy and research on behalf of NGOs and corporate clients as well as providing a screening service. Clients have included: Amnesty International, Cafédirect, Christian Aid, Comic Relief, The Co-operative Bank, British Red Cross, Consumer Focus, Ecology Building Society, International Consumer Research and Testing, Friends of the Earth, Glasgow Caledonian University, Lush, Médecins Sans Frontières, Natural History Museum, Oxfam, The Guardian, the Soil Association, Vegetarian Society, WaterAid, Women's Institutes and WWF.\n\n"}
{"id": "13574859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13574859", "title": "George Botterill", "text": "George Botterill\n\nGeorge Steven Botterill (born 8 January 1949) is a Welsh chess player, writer and philosopher.\n\nBotterill was born in Bradford and learned chess at the age of seven.\nFrom 1969 to 1972 he played for Oxford University, and became one of Britain's leading young players.\nIn 1971 he won the Slater Young Masters tournament at Hastings, and at Hastings 1971/2 he was the top scorer among the British players with 6.0/15.\nBotterill won the 1974 British Championship at Clacton, winning the playoff at Llanelli, Wales by a half point over William Hartston after a seven-way tie for first.\nIn 1977 Botterill won his second British Championship, this time outright.\n\nBotterill won the Welsh Championship in 1973 (jointly).\nIn 1974 he became a lecturer in philosophy at the University of Wales at Aberystwyth, and began to play for the Welsh international team.\nIn the Preliminary Group of the European Championship he scored 1½–½ against Dutch top board GM Jan Timman and 1–1 against English top board Hartston.\nBotterill played first board for Wales at the 1976 Olympiad and previously represented England at the World Student Team Championship and European Team Chess Championship of 1973. He holds the title of International Master.\n\nBotterill is best known as a chess writer, in particular for his chess opening collaborations with Raymond Keene: \"The Modern Defence\" (London 1973) and \"The Pirc Defence\" (London 1974). He is currently Senior Lecturer in Philosophy at the University of Sheffield.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5091338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5091338", "title": "Heavy NP shift", "text": "Heavy NP shift\n\nHeavy NP shift is an operation that involves re-ordering (shifting) a \"heavy\" noun phrase (NP) to a position to the right of its canonical position under certain circumstances. The heaviness of the NP is determined by its grammatical complexity; whether or not shifting occurs can impact the grammaticality of the sentence. \n\nRoss (1967) is thought to have been the first to systematically investigate the properties of heavy NP shift. Although the term heavy NP shift derives from the theoretical framework of transformational grammar, which describes the process in terms of movement of the NP, linguists working in other frameworks also use this term. And in approaches to syntax where NP is analyzed as a determiner phrase (DP), heavy NP shift is called heavy DP shift.\n\nEarly observations of weight or heaviness have been credited to a rhythmical feel that unconsciously takes shape in languages, that is, the tendency of growth, to go from shorter to longer elements within a phrase. In these early observations, it was noted that when there are two constituents differing in size, the smaller constituent usually precedes the longer one . This observation has been more recently coined as the \"principle of end-weight\". The literature proposes many different definitions of weight or heaviness such as number of words in the NP (length of NP), number of nodes in the NP, and more generally number of phrasal nodes.. Other observations on heaviness include: \n\nExamples 1a, 2a, and 3a all show canonical order whereas 1b, 2b, 3b show the NP shifted to the right of its canonical position:\n\nIf a constituent is not considered 'heavy' or 'complex', the shift would not make grammatical sense or would be considered awkward to a native speaker of English, e.g. \n\nIn example 4, the verb \"sent\" has a personal pronoun as its direct object. Typically, nothing can intervene between a verb and its personal pronoun in most dialects of English, e.g.\n\nIn example 5b, the NP \"the problem\" is not complex enough to be shifted.\n\nJapanese is an SOV (subject, object, verb) language. Particles in Japanese encode syntactic functions, marking the relationship of the subject and object (NP) to the verb. This allows Japanese speakers to 'scramble' the order of particle-marked phrases which is important when considering word ordering biases such as heavy NP shift. In corpus studies and experiments, it has been shown that Japanese-speakers have a long-before-short bias, contrasting English biases of short-before-long in the presence of a heavy NP.. \n\nIn an experiment, participants had to create a sentence from a set of phrases that varied in length of the direct object (DO) and indirect object (IO) for dative verbs. In Japanese, the order for dative verbs is; subject (S) -indirect object (IO) -direct object (DO). For example, the 'short' phrase:\n\nIn this study, participants chose this order for a short phrase the majority of the time, without rearranging the order of the IO and DO. However, when the DO and IO were lengthened, the participants were more likely to shift the longer phrase before the short phrase even if it switched the order from S-IO-DO to S-DO-IO. For example, the phrase:\n\nwas shifted so that the long DO was before the short IO:\n\nIf the IO was longer than the DO, the participants were less likely to switch the order, leaving it as S-IO-DO. This suggests that Japanese speakers have a bias towards placing longer phrases before shorter ones.\n\nGerman word order is variable and flexible and relies on a rich inflectional system. Rearrangements of an NP and PP can take place similar to English i.e. [NP PP V] or [PP NP V]. German does not allow a direct object NP to the right of a final verb. The examples below show the rearrangement of a heavy NP and a PP. Either order is acceptable in German as word order variation is not as strict as it is in other languages such as English. \n\nFor analyses that treat heavy NP shift as movement, there are two kinds of shifts when considering heavy NPs: one involves rightward movement, the involves leftward movement.\n\nThe first, and most traditional, is when a \"heavy\" object NP is shifted rightward to the end of the utterance. According to one theory a complex NP will be shifted rightward if it does not cross over a verb. Another theory proposes a leftward movement of a \"light\" indirect object. According to this theory an indirect object is moved leftward independently of verb movement to a higher specifier position, next to the verb and before the direct object, leaving the heavy NP \"in situ\". \n\nThis syntax tree shows an example of rightward movement of a heavy NP. The entire constituent \"my rich uncle from Detroit\" has 'shifted' from its position as a complement to the verb to an adjunct of the VP. This tree has been created using a particular style of syntax, mainly X-bar Theory. \n\nThe syntax tree below shows an example of leftward movement of a 'light' indirect object. The constituent \"on the street\" has 'shifted' from its position in a small clause environment past the direct object to a higher functional specifier position leaving the 'heavy NP' \"in situ\". This syntax tree has been created using a particular style of syntax, mainly X-bar Theory. \n\nPsycholinguists want to understand when speakers resort to shifting heavy NPs to the end of a phrase. A study of printed corpus material found that different verbs exhibit different word order variation. The study focused on whether speakers and writers produce the word of heavy NP shift for their own benefit, or if they take into account the needs of the listener or reader. In this study, two verb classes were compared to test the choice of early and late commitment (points when the speaker has 'committed' themselves to producing a VP immediately followed by NP and PP constituents). The study examined transitive verbs, which require an NP object (e.g. \"bring\", \"carry\", \"make\", \"put\", etc.) and prepositional or intransitive verbs that do not require an NP object (e.g. \"add\", \"build\", \"call\", \"draw\", \"leave\", etc.).\n\nExample of utterance with transitive verb:\n\nExample of utterance with intransitive verb:\n\nThe arrows indicate where the speaker commits to producing a VP with an NP and PP following. They also indicate where the listener is sure the VP will contain a NP and PP. \n\nAfter analyzing written and spoken corpus data it was found that heavy NP shift is more common with intransitive verbs. This suggests using heavy NP shift word order with intransitive verbs allows the producer more time to decide whether they will include a direct object or not. This reduces the amount of planning needed and gives the speaker more time to articulate their thoughts. Having this extra time should in turn reduce the chance of the producer having to correct or abort an utterance .\n\n"}
{"id": "8434000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8434000", "title": "Herman Van Breda", "text": "Herman Van Breda\n\nHerman Leo Van Breda (born Leo Marie Karel; 28 February 1911, Lier, Belgium – 3 March 1974, Leuven) was a Franciscan, philosopher and founder of the Husserl Archives at the Higher Institute of Philosophy of the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium.\n\nOn 19 August 1934, he was ordained as a priest and in 1936 he started studying philosophy at the Catholic University of Leuven, where he obtained a PhD degree in 1941 with a dissertation on the phenomenology of Edmund Husserl. Later he became a professor at the Catholic University of Leuven, where he stayed until his death in 1974.\n\nVan Breda saved the extensive writings and manuscripts of Edmund Husserl from destruction by the Nazis.\n\nFor the preparation of his PhD thesis he traveled to Freiburg, Germany in 1938, where he found, in the legacy of Edmund Husserl (1859–1938), more than 40000 \"Gabelsberger\" stenography manuscripts and his complete research library. The political situation in Germany at that time convinced him of the necessity to transport these manuscripts and Husserl’s private library to Leuven. In order to smuggle the documents out of Nazi Germany, he needed the support not only of the rector of the Catholic University of Leuven, but also of the Belgian government. The Belgian Prime Minister at that time, Paul-Henri Spaak, allowed van Breda to bring the documents from Freiburg to the Belgian embassy in Berlin and diplomatic couriers to bring them to Leuven in Belgium.\n\nVan Breda also was able to convince Husserl's former assistants, Eugen Fink and Ludwig Landgrebe, to collaborate on the editing of these documents in Leuven. At the beginning of World War II the documents were being kept in the university library in Leuven, which burned to ashes on 17 May 1940. Fortunately, one week before the fire Van Breda decided to bring the documents to the Higher Institute of Philosophy.\n\nIn 1943 the documents were, for safety, distributed over different locations in Leuven, including a shelter in the cellar of the Institute of Philosophy and the Abbey of Postel. After the war they were brought back to the Institute of Philosophy, where they form the basis for the Husserliana, the complete works of Edmund Husserl.\n\nFor his work on spreading Husserl’s work he was awarded an honoris causa doctorate from the Albert Ludwigs University of Freiburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3480941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3480941", "title": "Holberg Prize", "text": "Holberg Prize\n\nThe Holberg Prize is an international prize awarded annually by the government of Norway to outstanding scholars for work in the arts, humanities, social sciences, law and theology, either within one of these fields or through interdisciplinary work. The prize is named after the Danish-Norwegian writer and academic Ludvig Holberg (1684 - 1754). The Holberg Prize comes with a monetary award of 6 million Norwegian kroner (NOK) (approximately $750 000 or €660 000), which are intended to be used to further the research of the recipient. The winner of the Holberg Prize is announced in March, and the award ceremony takes place every June in Bergen, Norway.\n\nThe prize was established by the Parliament of Norway in honor of Ludvig Holberg in 2003 and complements its sister prize in mathematics, the Abel Prize. Ludvig Holberg, who excelled in all the disciplines covered by the award, played an important part in bringing the Enlightenment to the Nordic countries and is also well known as a playwright and author. The objective of the prize was to increase awareness of the value of academic scholarship in the arts,humanities, social sciences, law and theology. It has been described as the \"Nobel Prize\" for the arts and humanities, social sciences, law and theology.\n\nThe Holberg Prize is awarded annually to scholars who have made \"outstanding contributions to research in the arts and humanities, social sciences, law or theology.\" Scholars holding positions at universities and other research institutions, including academies, are eligible to nominate candidates to the Holberg Prize and the Nils Klim Prize. Self-nominations are not permitted. The Holberg Board awards the prize at the recommendation of the Holberg Committee.The Holberg Committee meets twice. At the first meeting, in early fall, they choose a shortlist from the nominations. The Committee then gather assessments on the short-list candidates from internationally recognized scholars before giving their final recommendation to the Board.\n\nThe Holberg Prize is funded through a direct allocation from the Norwegian government's budget. It is administered by the University of Bergen on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Research. The University of Bergen appoints the executive board of the Holberg Prize. The Holberg Board consists of the board chair and four board member. The board members must work in different institutions, and at least one board member must work outside the university and university college sector. Board members are appointed for a period of four years and may be reappointed once. Current chair of the Holberg board is professor Sigmund Grønmo. \nThe Holberg Board awards the prize at the recommendation of the Holberg Committee who consists of five outstanding researchers in the arts and humanities, social sciences, law and theology. The current Holberg Prize Academic Committee is composed of: Dame Hazel Genn (Committee chairman, University College London), Björn Wittrock (Uppsala University), Mary Beard (University of Cambridge), Graeme Turner (The University of Queensland) and Cui Zhiyuan (Tsinghua University).\n\nPrevious members of the Holberg Committee are among others: Mary Jacobus (University of Cambridge), Helga Nowotny (ETH Zurich), Kwame Anthony Appiah (New York University), Toril Moi (Duke University), Stein Kuhnle (The Norwegian Academy og Science and Letters), Johan P. Olsen (University of Bergen), and Pratap Bhanu Mehta (Center for policy research).\n\nDuring The Holberg Week in June, The Holberg Prize hosts a series of lectures, discussions and other events in honor of the Holberg Laureate and the Nils Klim Laureate. The events feature the laureates, as well as other high-profile international scholars. The program feature, among other things, the Holberg Symposium, the Nils Klim Seminar and the Holberg Lecture. All events during the Holberg week, with the exception of the award ceremony and government banquet, are open to all and have free entrance. Several of the events are also livestreamed, and available to an international audience.\n\nIn addition to The Holberg Week, The Holberg Debate is held in December each year. The debate marks Ludvig Holberg's ideas of enlightenment, and seeks to discuss and find answers to key social issues. The Holberg Debate was held for the first time in 2016. Former participants in the Holberg Debate are Timothy Garton Ash, Jostein Gripsrud, Jonathan Heawood, John Pilger and Julian Assange.\n\nAs part of its research dissemination targeting younger people, the Holberg Prize also awards two other prizes:\n\n\nThe Holberg Symposium is held annually in honor of the winner of The Holberg Prize. The event hosts prominent speakers who partake in a symposium dedicated to The Holberg Prize laureate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42407157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42407157", "title": "Home altar", "text": "Home altar\n\nA home altar or family altar is a small shrine kept in the home of a Western Christian family. Home altars often contain a cross or crucifix, in addition to a Bible, a daily devotional, and prayer beads, among other religious articles specific to the individual's Christian denomination, for example, the Anglican Rosary for Episcopalians, the Small Catechism for Lutherans, or an image of the Divine Mercy for Roman Catholics.\n\nHome altars usually are adorned with a couple of votive candles and they also sometimes have a small vase of flowers. In many Christian households, individual family members, or the family as a whole, gathers to pray at the home altar. Christian hymns may also be sung there. Family altars are also used to promote the \"development or intensification of personal piety and godly conduct.\" One writer in \"The Christian Treasury\" traces the origin of the family altar to Abraham erecting one in the Old Testament ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40543209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40543209", "title": "Hongaku", "text": "Hongaku\n\nHongaku () is an East Asian Buddhist doctrine often translated as \"inherent\", \"innate\", \"intrinsic\" or \"original\" enlightenment and is the view that all sentient beings already are enlightened or awakened in some way. It is closely tied with the concept of Buddha-nature.\n\nThe doctrine of innate enlightenment was developed in China out of the Buddha-nature doctrine. It is first mentioned in the Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana scripture. According to Jacqueline Stone, The awakening of faith in the Mahayana sees original enlightenment as \"true suchness considered under the aspect of conventional deluded consciousness and thus denotes the potential for enlightenment in unenlightened beings.\" In medieval China, the doctrine developed from the Huayan school and also influenced Chan Buddhism.\n\nThe doctrine is also a common theme of the \"Platform Sutra\" of Huineng and was taught by Chinese Chan masters as \"seeing original nature\". Inherent enlightenment was often associated with the teachings of sudden enlightenment and contrasted with the \"gradual\" approach and the idea of “acquired enlightenment” or \"shikaku\". The first Japanese to write of this doctrine was Kūkai (774–835), founder of Shingon Buddhism.\n\nThe doctrine of innate enlightenment was very influential in Tendai from the cloistered rule era (1086–1185) through the Edo period (1688–1735). The Tendai view of hongaku saw it as encompassing not only all sentient beings, but all living things and all nature, even inanimate objects - all were considered to be Buddha. This also includes all our actions and thoughts, even our deluded thoughts, as expressions of our innately enlightened nature.\n\nTamura Yoshirõ (1921–1989) saw original as being defined by two major philosophical elements. One was a radical non-dualism, in which everything was seen as empty and interconnected, so that the differences between ordinary person and Buddha and all other distinctions, were ontologically negated. The other feature of hongaku was the affirmation of the phenomenal world as an expression of the nondual realm of Buddha nature. This was expressed in phrases such as “the worldly passions are precisely enlightenment” and “birth and death are precisely nirvana.”\n\nThe Tendai doctrine of hongaku had deep impact on the development of New Kamakura Buddhism, for many of those who founded new Kamakura Buddhist schools (Eisai, Honen, Shinran, Dogen and Nichiren) studied Tendai at Mount Hiei.\n\nDuring the 1980s a Japanese movement known as Critical Buddhism has attacked original enlightenment as an ideology that supports the status quo and legitimates social injustice by accepting all things as they are as expressions of original Buddha nature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310890", "title": "Incompatibilism", "text": "Incompatibilism\n\nIncompatibilism is the view that a deterministic universe is completely at odds with the notion that persons have a free will; that there is a dichotomy between determinism and free will where philosophers must choose one or the other. This view is pursued in at least three ways: libertarians deny that the universe is deterministic, the hard determinists deny that any free will exists, and pessimistic incompatibilists (hard indeterminists) deny both that the universe is determined and that free will exists.\n\nIncompatibilism is contrasted with compatibilism, which rejects the determinism/free will dichotomy.\n\nMetaphysical libertarianism argues that free will is real and that determinism is false. Such dualism risks an infinite regress however; if any such mind is real, an objection can still be raised using the standard argument against free will that it is shaped by a necessity or chance. Libertarian Robert Kane (among others) presented an alternative model:\n\nRobert Kane (editor of the \"Oxford Handbook of Free Will\") is a leading incompatibilist philosopher in favour of free will. Kane seeks to hold persons morally responsible for decisions that involved indeterminism in their process. Critics maintain that Kane fails to overcome the greatest challenge to such an endeavor: \"the argument from luck\". Namely, if a critical moral choice is a matter of luck (indeterminate quantum fluctuations), then on what grounds can we hold a person responsible for their final action? Moreover, even if we imagine that a person can make an act of will ahead of time, to make the \"moral\" action more probable in the upcoming critical moment, this act of 'willing' was itself a matter of luck.\n\nLibertarianism in the philosophy of mind is unrelated to the like-named political philosophy. It suggests that we actually do have free will, that it is incompatible with determinism, and that therefore the future is not determined. For example, at this moment, one could either continue reading this article if one wanted, or cease. Under this assertion, being that one could do either, the fact of how the history of the world will continue to unfold is not currently determined one way or the other.\n\nOne famous proponent of this view was Lucretius, who asserted that the free will arises out of the random, chaotic movements of atoms, called \"clinamen\". One major objection to this view is that science has gradually shown that more and more of the physical world obeys completely deterministic laws, and seems to suggest that our minds are just as much part of the physical world as anything else. If these assumptions are correct, incompatibilist libertarianism can only be maintained as the claim that free will is a supernatural phenomenon, which does not obey the laws of nature (as, for instance, maintained by some religious traditions).\n\nHowever, many libertarian view points now rely upon an indeterministic view of the physical universe, under the assumption that the idea of a deterministic, \"clockwork\" universe has become outdated since the advent of quantum mechanics. By assuming an indeterministic universe libertarian philosophical constructs can be proposed under the assumption of physicalism.\n\nThere are libertarian view points based upon indeterminism and physicalism, which is closely related to naturalism. A major problem for naturalistic libertarianism is to explain how indeterminism can be compatible with rationality and with appropriate connections between an individual's beliefs, desires, general character and actions. A variety of naturalistic libertarianism is promoted by Robert Kane, who emphasizes that if our \"character\" is formed indeterministically (in \"self-forming actions\"), then our actions can still flow from our character, and yet still be incompatibilistically free.\n\nAlternatively, libertarian view points based upon indeterminism have been proposed without the assumption of naturalism. At the time C. S. Lewis wrote \"Miracles\", quantum mechanics (and physical indeterminism) was only in the initial stages of acceptance, but still Lewis stated the logical possibility that, if the physical world was proved to be indeterministic, this would provide an entry (interaction) point into the traditionally viewed closed system, where a scientifically described physically probable/improbable event could be philosophically described as an action of a non-physical entity on physical reality (noting that, under a physicalist point of view, the non-physical entity must be independent of the self-identity or mental processing of the sentient being). Lewis mentions this only in passing, making clear that his thesis does not depend on it in any way.\n\nOthers may use some form of Donald Davidson's anomalous monism to suggest that although the mind is in fact part of the physical world, it involves a different level of description of the same facts, so that although there are deterministic laws under the physical description, there are no such laws under the mental description, and thus our actions are free and not determined.\n\nThose who reject free will and accept determinism are variously known as \"hard determinists\", hard incompatibilists, free will skeptics, illusionists, or impossibilists. They believe that there is no 'free will' and that any sense of the contrary is an illusion. Of course, hard determinists do not deny that one has desires, but say that these desires are causally determined by an unbroken chain of prior occurrences. According to this philosophy, no wholly random, spontaneous, mysterious, or miraculous events occur.\nDeterminists sometimes assert that it is stubborn to resist scientifically motivated determinism on purely intuitive grounds about one's own sense of freedom. They reason that the history of the development of science suggests that determinism is the logical method in which reality works.\n\nWilliam James said that philosophers (and scientists) have an \"antipathy to chance.\" Absolute chance, a possible implication of quantum mechanics and the indeterminacy principle, implies a lack of causality. This possibility often disturbs those who assume there must be a causal and lawful explanation for all events.\n\nSince many believe that free will is necessary for moral responsibility, this may imply disastrous consequences for their theory of ethics.\n\nAs something of a solution to this predicament, it has been suggested that, for the sake of preserving moral responsibility and the concept of ethics, one might embrace the so-called \"illusion\" of free will. This, despite thinking that free will does not exist according to determinism. Critics argue that this move renders morality merely another \"illusion\", or else that this move is simply hypocritical.\n\nThe Determinist will add that, even if denying free will does mean morality is incoherent, such an unfortunate result has no effect on the truth. Note, however, that hard determinists often have some sort of 'moral system' that relies explicitly on determinism. A Determinist's moral system simply bears in mind that every person's actions in a given situation are, in theory, predicted by the interplay of environment and upbringing. For instance, the Determinist may still punish undesirable behaviours for reasons of behaviour modification or deterrence.\n\nHard incompatibilism, like hard determinism, is a type of skepticism about free will. 'Hard incompatibilism' is a term coined by Derk Pereboom to designate the view that both determinism and indeterminism are incompatible with having free will and moral responsibility. Like the hard determinist, the hard incompatibilist holds that if determinism were true, our having free will would be ruled out. But Pereboom argues in addition that if our decisions were indeterministic events, free will would also be precluded. In his view, free will is the control in action required for the desert aspect of moral responsibility—for our deserving to be blamed or punished for immoral actions, and to be praised or rewarded for morally exemplary actions. He contends that if our decisions were indeterministic events, their occurrence would not be in the control of the agent in the way required for such attributions of desert. The possibility for free will that remains is libertarian agent causation, according to which agents as substances (thus not merely as having a role in events) can cause actions without being causally determined to do so. Pereboom argues that for empirical reasons it is unlikely that we are agent causes of this sort, and that as a result, it is likely that we lack free will.\n\nIn recent years researchers in the field of experimental philosophy have been working on determining whether ordinary people, who aren't experts in this field, naturally have compatibilist or incompatibilist intuitions about determinism and moral responsibility. Some experimental work has even conducted cross-cultural studies. The debate about whether people naturally have compatibilist or incompatibilist intuitions has not come out overwhelmingly in favor of one view or the other. Still, there has been some evidence that people can naturally hold both views. For instance, when people are presented with abstract cases which ask if a person could be morally responsible for an immoral act when they could not have done otherwise, people tend to say no, or give \"incompatibilist\" answers, but when presented with a specific immoral act that a specific person committed, people tend to say that that person is morally responsible for their actions, even if they were determined (that is, people also give \"compatibilist\" answers).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17939589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17939589", "title": "Ja'far Kashfi", "text": "Ja'far Kashfi\n\nJa'far Kashfi, Iranian Muslim philosopher, was born at Darabgard in Fars in 1775 or 1776, lived all his life at Borujerd and died in 1850-1851. His work comprises about twelve titles, and is written in both Persian and Arabic. His great work in Persian entitled \"Tuhfat al-muluk\" (The Gift offered to the Sovereigns), which was written at the request of a Qajar prince, son of Fath Ali Shah, the Shahzadah Muhammad-Taqi Mirza.\n"}
{"id": "8739926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8739926", "title": "Jayarāśi Bhaṭṭa", "text": "Jayarāśi Bhaṭṭa\n\n' (fl. c. 800) was a sceptical (\"ajñana\") Indian philosopher, author of the Tattvopaplavasiṃha\"\"' (\"tattva-upa.plava-siṃha\" \"The Lion that Devours All Categories\"/\"The Upsetting of All Principles\").\n\nThe text was discovered in a single manuscript in the 20th century. Its original 1940 edition attributed it to the materialist Charvaka school, but scholarly opinion on this point remains divided. The work is primarily epistemological in nature, reminiscent of the sceptical philosophy of David Hume.\nThe manuscript of \"Tattvopaplavasimha\" was discovered in 1926 and published in 1940 by Saṁghavī and Pārīkh. The book examines epistemology, where Jayarāśi considers the pramāna (sources of knowledge) accepted in establishing conclusions (perception, inference, and testimony), and proves that none of them are sufficient for establishing knowledge. Inference relies on inductive reasoning, which cannot be shown to be universal premises. Testimony requires the reliability of the witness, which must be established by another of the pramāna. Even direct perception cannot establish truth, because it requires that the perception not be erroneous or illusory, which also cannot be established. Therefore, Jayarāsi argues that none of the sources of knowledge are valid, and nothing can be known for certain.\n\nJayarāsi challenged the āstika establishment's belief in supernatural beings by attacking their epistemology. Since none of the sources of knowledge are valid, how can anything be said about these beings? Therefore, he argued for the reasonability of atheism, and that happiness in one's life is the most reasonable goal. Jayarasi represented a philosophy of extreme skepticism, claiming no school of philosophy can claim its view of reality as knowledge, including the Cārvāka itself; however, because Cārvāka philosophy represents common sense, it could be used as a guide.\n\n\"Tattvopaplavasimha\" is regarded by some authors as belonging to the Cārvāka (Lokāyata) school. Sukhlal Sanghvi and Rasiklal Parikh, D.R. Shastri, Eli Franco, Karin Presidendanz, and Piotr Barcelowicz are examples.\nFranco (1994), for instance, says \"\"Tattvopaplavasimha\" is the only Lokayata text which has been discovered so far\".\n\nThis view is opposed by scholars including Karel Werner, Walter Ruben, K.K Dixit, Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya, M. K. Gangopadhyaya, A H Salunkhe, and Ramkrishna Bhattacharya.\nWerner (1995), for instance, is sceptical of the claim that \"Tattvopaplavasimha\" is a Cārvāka text. He however accepts that the text is an important secondary source for Cārvāka.\n\nAccording to Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya, \"Jayarāśi, who claims to be intellectually superior to Bṛhaspati, could ... hardly be a follower of Bṛhaspati himself, i.e., could hardly be the leader of any imaginary offshoot of the Cārvāka or Bārhaspatya system\". In support of his view that \"Tattvopaplavasimha\" is not a Cārvāka/Lokāyata text, Chattopadhyaya says \"it is moreover necessary to remember that Jayarāśi claims as his final achievement the annihilation of the vanity of the \"Pāṣaṇḍin [pākhaṇḍin]\"-s (\"Tattvopaplavasiṃha\" Baroda edition p.125). Now whatever might have been the exact meaning of the word \"pāṣaṇḍin\", it could by no stretch of imagination have excluded the Lokāyatikas and Cārvākas.\" \n\nSalunkhe also holds that Jayarasi Bhatta did not belong to the Cārvāka school of philosophy as he denies even \"Pratyakşa pramana\" and four \"Mahābhūta\"s that Cārvāka had accepted. He notes Jayarsi as an agnostic and anti-philosophic rather than a materialistic Lokāyatika.\n\nRamkrishna Bhattacharya adduces an argument from within the text itself to refute the claim that \"Tattvopaplava-siṃha\" is a Cārvāka text. He says, \"there is indeed a Cārvāka at the very beginning of the Tattvopaplava-siṃha. But he is not Jayarāśi, but another person who is presented as a Cārvāka out to challenge Jayarāśi’s doctrine of upsetting tattva as such. This objector has to be a Cārvāka, for who but a Cārvāka would refer to the basic premises of materialism and stand upon them? The presence of this objector and the way Jayarāśi gets into controversy with him clearly indicate that Jayarāśi himself was not a Cārvāka or did not even belong to ‘a section of the Cārvāka’ (\"cārvākaikadeśya\")\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231187", "title": "Jean Baudrillard", "text": "Jean Baudrillard\n\nJean Baudrillard (; ; 27 July 1929 – 6 March 2007) was a French sociologist, philosopher, cultural theorist, political commentator, and photographer. He is best known for his analyses of media, contemporary culture, and technological communication, as well as his formulation of concepts such as simulation and hyperreality. He wrote about diverse subjects, including consumerism, gender relations, economics, social history, art, Western foreign policy, and popular culture. Among his best known works are \"Simulacra and Simulation\" (1981), \"America\" (1986), and \"The Gulf War Did Not Take Place\" (1991). His work is frequently associated with postmodernism and specifically post-structuralism.\n\nBaudrillard was born in Reims, northeastern France, on 27 July 1929. His grandparents were peasant farm workers and his father a policeman. During high school (at the Lycée at Reims), he became aware of pataphysics (via philosophy professor Emmanuel Peillet), which is said to be crucial for understanding Baudrillard's later thought. He became the first of his family to attend university when he moved to Paris to attend the Sorbonne. There he studied German language and literature, which led him to begin teaching the subject at several different lycées, both Parisian and provincial, from 1960 until 1966. While teaching, Baudrillard began to publish reviews of literature and translated the works of such authors as Peter Weiss, Bertolt Brecht, Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, and .\n\nWhile teaching German, Baudrillard began to transfer to sociology, eventually completing and publishing in 1968 his doctoral thesis \"Le Système des Objets\" (\"The System of Objects\") under the dissertation committee of Henri Lefebvre, Roland Barthes, and Pierre Bourdieu. Subsequently, he began teaching Sociology at the Paris X Nanterre, a university campus just outside Paris which would become heavily involved in the events of May 1968. During this time, Baudrillard worked closely with Philosopher Humphrey De Battenburge, who described Baudrillard as a \"visionary\". At Nanterre he took up a position as \"Maître Assistant\" (Assistant Professor), then \"Maître de Conférences\" (Associate Professor), eventually becoming a professor after completing his accreditation, \"L'Autre par lui-même\" (\"The Other by Himself\").\n\nIn 1970, Baudrillard made the first of his many trips to the United States (Aspen, Colorado), and in 1973, the first of several trips to Kyoto, Japan. He was given his first camera in 1981 in Japan, which led to his becoming a photographer.\n\nIn 1986 he moved to IRIS (Institut de Recherche et d'Information Socio-Économique) at the Université de Paris-IX Dauphine, where he spent the latter part of his teaching career. During this time he had begun to move away from sociology as a discipline (particularly in its \"classical\" form), and, after ceasing to teach full-time, he rarely identified himself with any particular discipline, although he remained linked to academia. During the 1980s and 1990s his books had gained a wide audience, and in his last years he became, to an extent, an intellectual celebrity, being published often in the French- and English-speaking popular press. He nonetheless continued supporting the Institut de Recherche sur l'Innovation Sociale at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique and was \"Satrap\" at the Collège de Pataphysique. Baudrillard taught at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, and collaborated at the Canadian theory, culture, and technology review \"Ctheory\", where he was abundantly cited. He also participated in the \"International Journal of Baudrillard Studies\" from its inception in 2004 until his death. In 1999–2000, his photographs were exhibited at the Maison européenne de la photographie in Paris. In 2004, Baudrillard attended the major conference on his work, \"Baudrillard and the Arts\", at the Center for Art and Media Karlsruhe in Karlsruhe, Germany.\n\nBaudrillard's published work emerged as part of a generation of French thinkers including: Gilles Deleuze, Jean-François Lyotard, Michel Foucault, Jacques Derrida, and Jacques Lacan who all shared an interest in semiotics, and he is often seen as a part of the post-structuralist philosophical school. In common with many post-structuralists, his arguments consistently draw upon the notion that signification and meaning are both only understandable in terms of how particular words or \"signs\" interrelate. Baudrillard thought, as do many post-structuralists, that meaning is brought about through \"systems\" of signs working together. Following on from the structuralist linguist Ferdinand de Saussure, Baudrillard argued that meaning (value) is created through difference—through what something is not (so \"dog\" means \"dog\" because it is not-\"cat\", not-\"goat\", not-\"tree\", etc.). In fact, he viewed meaning as near enough self-referential: objects, images of objects, words and signs are situated in a web of meaning; one object's meaning is only understandable through its relation to the meaning of other objects; for instance, one thing's prestige relates to another's mundanity.\n\nFrom this starting point Baudrillard theorized broadly about human society based upon this kind of self-referentiality. His writing portrays societies always searching for a sense of meaning—or a \"total\" understanding of the world—that remains consistently elusive. In contrast to Post-structuralism (such as Michel Foucault), for whom the formations of knowledge emerge only as the result of relations of power, Baudrillard developed theories in which the excessive, fruitless search for total knowledge leads almost inevitably to a kind of delusion. In Baudrillard's view, the (human) subject may try to understand the (non-human) object, but because the object can only be understood according to what it signifies (and because the process of signification immediately involves a web of other signs from which it is distinguished) this never produces the desired results. The subject is, rather, \"seduced\" (in the original Latin sense, \"seducere\", to lead away) by the object. He argued therefore that, in final analysis, a complete understanding of the minutiae of human life is impossible, and when people are seduced into thinking otherwise they become drawn toward a \"simulated\" version of reality, or, to use one of his neologisms, a state of \"hyperreality\". This is not to say that the world becomes unreal, but rather that the faster and more comprehensive societies begin to bring reality together into one supposedly coherent picture, the more insecure and unstable it looks and the more fearful societies become. Reality, in this sense, \"dies out\".\n\nAccordingly, Baudrillard argued that the excess of signs and of meaning in late 20th century \"global\" society had caused (quite paradoxically) an effacement of reality. In this world neither liberal nor Marxist utopias are any longer believed in. We live, he argued, not in a \"global village\", to use Marshall McLuhan's phrase, but rather in a world that is ever more easily petrified by even the smallest event. Because the \"global\" world operates at the level of the exchange of signs and commodities, it becomes ever more blind to \"symbolic\" acts such as, for example, terrorism. In Baudrillard's work the symbolic realm (which he develops a perspective on through the anthropological work of Marcel Mauss and Georges Bataille) is seen as quite distinct from that of signs and signification. Signs can be exchanged like commodities; symbols, on the other hand, operate quite differently: they are exchanged, like gifts, sometimes violently as a form of potlatch. Baudrillard, particularly in his later work, saw the \"global\" society as without this \"symbolic\" element, and therefore symbolically (if not militarily) defenseless against acts such as the Rushdie Fatwa or, indeed, the September 11 terrorist attacks against the United States and its military and economic establishment.\n\nIn his early books, such as \"The System of Objects\", \"For a Critique of the Political Economy of the Sign\", and \"The Consumer Society\", Baudrillard's main focus is upon consumerism, and how different objects are consumed in different ways. At this time Baudrillard's political outlook was loosely associated with Marxism (and Situationism), but in these books he differed from Karl Marx in one significant way. For Baudrillard, as for the situationists, it was consumption rather than production that was the main driver of capitalist society.\n\nBaudrillard came to this conclusion by criticising Marx's concept of \"use-value\". Baudrillard thought that both Marx's and Adam Smith's economic thought accepted the idea of genuine needs relating to genuine uses too easily and too simply. Baudrillard argued, drawing from Georges Bataille, that needs are constructed, rather than innate. He stressed that all purchases, because they always signify something \"socially\", have their fetishistic side. Objects always, drawing from Roland Barthes, \"say something\" about their users. And this was, for him, why consumption was and remains more important than production: because the \"ideological genesis of needs\" precedes the production of goods to meet those needs.\n\nHe wrote that there are four ways of an object obtaining value. The four value-making processes are:\n\n\nBaudrillard's earlier books were attempts to argue that the first two of these values are not simply associated, but are disrupted by the third and, particularly, the fourth. Later, Baudrillard rejected Marxism totally (\"The Mirror of Production\" and \"Symbolic Exchange and Death\"). But the focus on the difference between sign value (which relates to commodity exchange) and symbolic value (which relates to Maussian gift exchange) remained in his work up until his death. Indeed, it came to play a more and more important role, particularly in his writings on world events.\n\nAs he developed his work throughout the 1980s, he moved from economic theory to mediation and mass communication. Although retaining his interest in Saussurean semiotics and the logic of symbolic exchange (as influenced by anthropologist Marcel Mauss), Baudrillard turned his attention to the work of Marshall McLuhan, developing ideas about how the nature of social relations is determined by the forms of communication that a society employs. In so doing, Baudrillard progressed beyond both Saussure's and Roland Barthes's formal semiology to consider the implications of a historically understood version of structural semiology.\n\nSimulation, Baudrillard claims, is the current stage of the simulacrum: all is composed of references with no referents, a hyperreality. Progressing historically from the Renaissance, in which the dominant simulacrum was in the form of the counterfeit—mostly people or objects appearing to stand for a real referent (for instance, royalty, nobility, holiness, etc.) that does not exist, in other words, in the spirit of pretense, in dissimulating others that a person or a thing does not really \"have it\"—to the Industrial Revolution, in which the dominant simulacrum is the product, the series, which can be propagated on an endless production line; and finally to current times, in which the dominant simulacrum is the model, which by its nature already stands for endless reproducibility, and is itself already reproduced.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s, one of Baudrillard's most common themes was historicity, or, more specifically, how present-day societies utilise the notions of progress and modernity in their political choices. He argued, much like the political theorist Francis Fukuyama, that history had ended or \"vanished\" with the spread of globalization; but, unlike Fukuyama, Baudrillard averred that this end should not be understood as the culmination of history's progress, but as the collapse of the very \"idea\" of historical progress. For Baudrillard, the end of the Cold War did not represent an ideological victory; rather, it signaled the disappearance of utopian visions shared between both the political Right and Left. Giving further evidence of his opposition toward Marxist visions of global communism and liberal visions of global civil society, Baudrillard contended that the ends they hoped for had always been illusions; indeed, as \"The Illusion of the End\" argues, he thought the idea of an end itself was nothing more than a misguided dream:\n\nWithin a society subject to and ruled by fast-paced electronic communication and global information networks the collapse of this façade was always going to be, he thought, inevitable. Employing a quasi-scientific vocabulary that attracted the ire of the physicist Alan Sokal, Baudrillard wrote that the speed society moved at had destabilized the linearity of history: \"we have the particle accelerator that has smashed the referential orbit of things once and for all\".\n\nIn making this argument Baudrillard found some affinity with the postmodern philosophy of Jean-François Lyotard, who famously argued that in the late 20th century there was no longer any room for \"metanarratives\". (The triumph of a coming communism being one such metanarrative.) But, in addition to simply lamenting this collapse of history, Baudrillard also went beyond Lyotard and attempted to analyse how the idea of forward progress was being employed in spite of the notion's declining validity. Baudrillard argued that although genuine belief in a universal endpoint of history, wherein all conflicts would find their resolution, had been deemed redundant, universality was still a notion utilised in world politics as an excuse for actions. Universal values which, according to him, no one any longer believed universal were and are still rhetorically employed to justify otherwise unjustifiable choices. The means, he wrote, are there even though the ends are no longer believed in, and are employed in order to hide the present's harsh realities (or, as he would have put it, unrealities). \"In the Enlightenment, universalization was viewed as unlimited growth and forward progress. Today, by contrast, universalization is expressed as a forward \"escape\".\" This involves the notion of \"escape velocity\" as outlined in \"The Vital Illusion\" (2000), which in turn, results in the postmodern \"fallacy of escape velocity\" on which the postmodern mind and critical view cannot, by definition, ever truly break free from the all-encompassing \"self-referential\" sphere of discourse.\n\nBaudrillard's provocative 1991 book \"The Gulf War Did Not Take Place\" raised his public profile as an academic and political commentator. He argued that the first Gulf War was the inverse of the Clausewitzian formula: not \"the continuation of politics by other means\", but \"the continuation of the absence of politics by other means\". Accordingly, Saddam Hussein was not fighting the Coalition, but using the lives of his soldiers as a form of sacrifice to preserve his power (p. 72, 2004 edition). The Coalition fighting the Iraqi military was merely dropping 10,000 tonnes of bombs daily, as if proving to themselves that there was an enemy to fight (p. 61). So, too, were the Western media complicit, presenting the war in real time, by recycling images of war to propagate the notion that the U.S.-led coalition and the Iraqi government were actually fighting, but, such was not the case. Saddam Hussein did not use his military capacity (the Iraqi Air Force). His power was not weakened, evinced by his easy suppression of the 1991 internal uprisings that followed afterwards. Over all, little had changed. Saddam remained undefeated, the \"victors\" were not victorious, and thus there was no war—i.e., the Gulf War did not occur.\n\nThe book was originally a series of articles in the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" and the French newspaper \"Libération\". These were published in three parts: \"The Gulf War Will Not Take Place\", published during the American military and rhetorical buildup; \"The Gulf War Is Not Taking Place\", published during military action; and \"The Gulf War Did Not Take Place\", published afterwards.\n\nSome critics accused Baudrillard of instant revisionism; a denial of the physical action of the conflict (which was related to his denial of reality in general). Consequently, Baudrillard was accused of lazy amoralism, cynical scepticism, and Berkelian idealism. Sympathetic commentators such as William Merrin (in his book \"Baudrillard and the Media\") have argued that Baudrillard was more concerned with the West's technological and political dominance and the globalization of its commercial interests, and what that means for the present possibility of war. Merrin argued that Baudrillard was not denying that something had happened, but merely questioning whether that something was in fact war or a bilateral \"atrocity masquerading as a war\". Merrin viewed the accusations of amorality as redundant and based on a misreading. In Baudrillard's own words (pp. 71–72):\n\nIn contrast to the \"non-event\" of the Gulf War, in the essay \"The Spirit of Terrorism\" he characterised the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York City as the \"absolute event\". Seeking to understand them as a reaction to the technological and political expansion of capitalist globalization, rather than as a war of religiously based or civilization-based warfare, he described the absolute event and its consequences as follows:\n\nIn accordance with his theory of society, Baudrillard portrayed the attacks as a symbolic reaction to the inexorable rise of a world based on commodity exchange. This stance was criticised on two counts. Richard Wolin (in \"The Seduction of Unreason\") forcefully accused Baudrillard and Slavoj Žižek of all but celebrating the terrorist attacks, essentially claiming that the United States received what it deserved. Žižek, however, countered that accusation to Wolin's analysis as a form of intellectual barbarism in the journal \"Critical Inquiry\", saying that Wolin failed to see the difference between fantasising about an event and stating that one is deserving of that event. Merrin (in \"Baudrillard and the Media\") argued that Baudrillard's position affords the terrorists a type of moral superiority. In the journal \"Economy and Society\", Merrin further noted that Baudrillard gives the symbolic facets of society unfair privilege above semiotic concerns. Second, authors questioned whether the attacks were unavoidable. Bruno Latour, in \"Critical Inquiry, \" argued that Baudrillard believed that their destruction was forced by the society that created them, alluding to the notion that the Towers were \"brought down by their own weight\". In Latour's view, this was because Baudrillard conceived only of society in terms of a symbolic and semiotic dualism.\n\nDenis Dutton, founder of \"Philosophy & Literature\"'s \"Bad Writing Contest\"—which listed examples of the kind of willfully obscurantist prose for which Baudrillard was frequently criticised—had the following to say:\n\nHowever, only one of the two major confrontational books on Baudrillard's thought—Christopher Norris's \"Uncritical Theory: Postmodernism, Intellectuals and the Gulf War\" ()—seeks to reject his media theory and position on \"the real\" out of hand. The other—Douglas Kellner's \"Jean Baudrillard: From Marxism to Postmodernism and Beyond\" ()—seeks rather to analyse Baudrillard's relation to postmodernism (a concept with which Baudrillard has had a continued, if uneasy and rarely explicit, relationship) and to present a Marxist counter. Regarding the former, William Merrin (discussed above) published more than one denunciation of Norris's position. The latter Baudrillard himself characterised as reductive (in Nicholas Zurbrugg's \"Jean Baudrillard: Art and Artefact\").\n\nWillam Merrin's work has presented a more sympathetic account, which attempts to \"place Baudrillard in opposition to himself\". Thereby Merrin has argued that Baudrillard's position on semiotic analysis of meaning denies himself his own position on symbolic exchange. Merrin thus alludes to the common criticism of structuralist and post-structuralist work (a criticism not dissimilar in either Baudrillard, Foucault, or Deleuze) that emphasising interrelation as the basis for subjectivity denies the human agency from which social structures necessarily arise. (Alain Badiou and Michel de Certeau have made this point generally, and Barry Sandywell has argued as much in Baudrillard's specific case.)\n\nFinally, Mark Poster, until his death in 2012 was Baudrillard's editor and one of a number of academics who argued for his contemporary relevance; he remarked (p. 8 of Poster's 2nd ed. of \"Selected Writings\"):\n\nNonetheless Poster is keen to refute the most extreme of Baudrillard's critics, the likes of Alan Sokal and Norris who see him as a purveyor of a form of reality-denying irrationalism (\"ibid\" p. 7):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "607427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607427", "title": "Jean Vanier", "text": "Jean Vanier\n\nJean Vanier, born September 10, 1928, is a Canadian Catholic philosopher, theologian, and humanitarian. In 1964 he founded L'Arche, an international federation of communities spread over 37 countries, for people with developmental disabilities and those who assist them. Subsequently, in 1971, he co-founded Faith and Light with Marie-Hélène Mathieu, which also works for people with developmental disabilities, their families, and friends in over 80 countries. He continues to live as a member of the original L'Arche community in Trosly-Breuil, France.\n\nOver the years, he has written 30 books on religion, disability, normality, success, and tolerance. Among the honours he has received are the Companion of the Order of Canada (1986), Grand Officer of the National Order of Quebec (1992), French Legion of Honour (2003), Community of Christ International Peace Award (2003), the Pacem in Terris Peace and Freedom Award (2013), and the Templeton Prize (2015).\n\nVanier is the son of Major-General Georges Vanier, who became the 19th Governor General of Canada (1959–1967), and his wife Pauline Vanier. He was born in Geneva while his father was on diplomatic service in Switzerland. Fourth of five siblings, in his youth Vanier received a broad education in English and French first in Canada and then in England and France. He joined the Royal Navy at the Dartmouth Naval College (later renamed Britannia Royal Naval College) in England at age 13. During World War II, Vanier and his family fled to Paris just before the Nazi occupation. He spent much of the War at an English naval academy, preparing for a career as a naval officer.\n\nIn early 1945, Vanier was visiting Paris where his father was Canadian Ambassador; he and his mother went to assist survivors of Nazi concentration camps. Seeing the emaciated victims, their faces twisted with fear and anguish, was a profoundly moving encounter for him, which he never forgot. Shortly thereafter, he served in World War II with the Royal Navy and then with the Royal Canadian Navy. In 1947 as a midshipman, Vanier accompanied the Royal Family on their tour of South Africa aboard HMS \"Vanguard\".\n\nIn 1949, he joined the Royal Canadian Navy, at the carrier \"HMCS Magnificent\". However, in 1950, feeling a strong inner spiritual calling to do \"something else,\" he resigned his naval commission. Vanier travelled to Paris to study as an undergraduate. He eventually went on to complete a PhD in philosophy from the Institut Catholique de Paris, with a doctoral thesis on Aristotle which was published in 1966 as \"Happiness as Principle and End of Aristotelian Ethics\"; this was his first published work. He went on to write several books during his career and taught philosophy at the University of St. Michael's College, University of Toronto. He left academia in 1964, seeking a more spiritual ministry.\n\nIn 1964, through Vanier's friendship with a priest named Father Thomas Philippe, he became aware of the plight of thousands of people institutionalised with developmental disabilities. Vanier invited two men, Raphael Simi and Philippe Seux, to leave the institutions where they resided and live with him in Trosly-Breuil, France. Their time together led to the establishment of L'Arche at Trosly-Breuil, a community where people with disabilities live with those who care for them. Since that time L'Arche communities have been established in countries around the world. A governing philosophy of the communities is Vanier's belief that people with disabilities are teachers, rather than burdens bestowed upon families.\n\nUntil the late 1990s, Jean Vanier carried the responsibility for L'Arche in Trosly-Breuil in France, and for the International Federation of L'Arche. He then stepped down to spend more time counseling, encouraging, and accompanying the people who come to live in L'Arche as assistants to those with disabilities. Vanier has established 147 L'Arche communities in 37 countries around the world which have become places of pilgrimage for those involved.\n\nIn 1968, Jean Vanier gave a Faith and Sharing retreat in Mary Lake, Ontario, the first in his movement of retreats where people from many walks of life are welcome. The retreats continue today as part of the Faith and Sharing Federation. As of 2013, there are 13 communities in North America that organize annual retreats and days of prayer. Faith and Sharing member Bill Clark, SJ, explains: \"There is then a two-fold movement in Faith and Sharing: an inward movement towards God hidden in the depths of our own vulnerability, and an outward movement towards our brothers and sisters, especially those who are more poor and in need.\" The organization's records are housed at the John M. Kelly Library, University of St. Michael's College.\n\nIn 1971, Vanier co-founded Faith and Light with Marie-Hélène Mathieu. This is an international movement of forums for people with developmental disabilities, their family and friends. Today there are over 1,500 Faith and Light communities in 81 countries around the world.\n\nVanier still makes his home in the original L'Arche community of Trosly-Breuil, France. He travels widely, visiting other L'Arche communities, encouraging projects for new communities, and giving lectures and retreats. He was the 1998 Massey lecturer focusing on the theme of \"Becoming Human\". During one of his lectures he touched on his distaste for barriers around people with intellectual disabilities, a motivating philosophy behind L'Arche: \"We must do what we can to diminish walls, to meet each other. Why do we put people with disabilities behind walls?\"\n\nHe has received numerous awards for his work, including the Companion of the Order of Canada, the Legion of Honour (France, 2003) and many awards from faith groups, among them the Paul VI International Prize, the Community of Christ International Peace Award, the Rabbi Gunther Plaut Humanitarian Award, and the Gaudium et Spes Award, named after the Second Vatican Council's \"Gaudium et spes\" document.\n\nIn 1993, he received the Loyola Medal from Concordia University.\n\nIn November 2004, a CBC poll ranked him as number 12 in a list of Greatest Canadians.\n\nIn 2010, the asteroid 8604 was officially named Vanier in his honour.\n\nIn 2013, he received the United States-based Pacem in Terris Peace and Freedom Award, established by the Diocese of Davenport, Iowa.\n\nIn March 2015, Vanier was awarded the Templeton Prize in recognition of his advocacy for people with disabilities and his contributions to a broader exploration of helping the weak and vulnerable.\n\nOn September 27, 2016, Jean Vanier received The Peace Abbey Foundation (USA) Int'l Courage of Conscience Award in Trosly-Breuil, France, for his lifelong commitment to building a world of inclusion for individuals with disabilities.\n\nSchools have been named in his honor in Whitehorse, Yukon; London, Ontario; Scarborough, Ontario; Collingwood, Ontario; Richmond Hill, Ontario; Welland, Ontario; Sherwood Park, Alberta and, most recently, Milton, Ontario.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42540749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42540749", "title": "June Downey", "text": "June Downey\n\nJune Etta Downey (July 13, 1875 – October 11, 1932) was an American psychologist who studied personality and handwriting. Downey was born and raised in Laramie, Wyoming, where she received her degree in Greek and Latin from the University of Wyoming. Throughout her life Downey wrote seven books and over seventy articles. Included in this work, Downey developed the Individual Will-Temperament Test, which was one of the first tests to evaluate character traits separately from intellectual capacity and the first to use psychographic methods for interpretation.\n\nIn addition to her many published works, Downey held several prestigious positions. She chaired the Department of Psychology and Philosophy at the University of Wyoming and in doing so became the first woman to hold a head position at a state university. She was appointed to the American Psychological Association Council and became a member of the Society of Experimental Psychologists, and a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nJune Downey was born in Laramie, Wyoming to Stephen Wheeler Downey and Evangeline (Owen) Downey as the second child in a family of nine. Her father was a colonel in the Union Army and one of the founders of the University of Wyoming and her younger brother, Sheridan Downey, served as US Senator from California between 1938 and 1950. Following education in Laramie public schools and the University of Wyoming preparatory school she entered the university to major in Greek and Latin.\n\nAfter graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1895, Downey taught in an elementary school for a year before attending the University of Chicago to work in philosophy and psychology where she completed her master's degree in 1898. In 1901, Downey gained interest in experimental psychology, while attending a summer course taught by Edward Bradford Titchener at Cornell University. Returning to the University of Wyoming, Downey taught English and psychology whilst also conducting some laboratory work for a few years, under the supervision of James Rowland Angell. Downey continued her education of experimental psychology under Edward B. Titchener at Cornell University. She returned to the University of Wyoming in 1905, as a Professor of Philosophy. In 1906 she took leave from her work in order to complete her doctorate; submitting her thesis in 1908, titled 'Control Processes in Modified Handwriting', on the topic of handwriting as a measure of personality.\n\nFollowing her graduate work, Downey was made head of her department; the first woman to be given such a position in a state university. She published a number of academic papers as well as writing and occasionally publishing short stories, poems, plays, and popular articles, including a volume of poetry titled \"The Heavenly Dykes\". Downey's studies focused on themes of imagery and aesthetics and were concentrated in experimental studies rather than theory. She was one of the first psychologists to study personality scientifically and became an expert in handwriting and handedness.\n\nAs Downey grew older she concentrated on her teaching. She published her last book, 'Creative Imagination', in 1929 tying together her interests in psychology and the arts. Downey gained membership to the council of the American Psychological Association between 1923 and 1925 and was one of the first two women admitted to membership in the Society of Experimental Psychologists in 1929, along with Margaret Washburn. Downey never married and had no children.\n\nDowney died at her sister's home in Trenton, New Jersey in 1932 after being taken ill with stomach cancer. Shortly after her death, Downey's family presented her private library to the University of Wyoming. The University held a memorial service for her and in 1999 she was named a finalist of 'Wyoming Citizen of the Century'. James Rowland Angell, whom Downey worked under for her doctorate, described her as \"endowed with an unusually alert and discerning mind and with a maturity of judgment extremely infrequent in students of her age.\"\n\nDowney primarily did research on handwriting, but included some research on motor processes such as involuntary muscle movement and its connection to the mind and personality. Downey had studied the practice of muscle reading from a psychological perspective.\n\nIn 1919, Downey developed the Downey Individual Will-Temperament Test. This test was one of her biggest contributions to personality psychology and was one of the first personality inventories. The test measured personality based on handwriting. It contained 10 smaller tests that when combined could be calculated into a total score that represented one's \"will-capacity\". The Downey Individual Will-Temperament Test was arranged to represent three personality types. The three personality types are \"hairtrigger\", which is impulsive and quick, the \"witful\" type, succinct and decisive, and the \"accurate\" type, which is slow and thoughtful.\n\nSimilar to William James and other eminent psychologists, Downey was greatly interested in the creative arts. She wrote poems, plays, and stories throughout her life. She even wrote the school song, \"Alma Mater\", for the University of Wyoming. In 1911, she published The Imaginal Reaction to Poetry, one of her most important experiments involving the arts. This study examined the images people had in response to reading poetry, she believed that variation in such images revealed differences in character.\n\n\nA June Etta Downey Fund in Psychology was established by family members to support professorships, restore the June E. Downey Seminar Room, and support women in the Department of Psychology at the University of Wyoming. She is also honored by the University of Wyoming, which is home to a bronze plaque with her name on it, the use of \"Alma Mater\" a song written by her, and has a building named after her.\n"}
{"id": "1862073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862073", "title": "Korean flower arrangement", "text": "Korean flower arrangement\n\nKorean flower arrangement is being revived as an indoor art, and most often uses simple Joseon dynasty whiteware to highlight Korean flowers and tree branches in elegant and unforced natural arrangements. Im Wha-Kong of Ewha Woman's University in Seoul, who also makes her own ceramic wares, is the greatest living exponent of this art, and hosts quarterly displays of flower arrangements keeping this tradition alive. There are at least a dozen schools of traditional flower arrangements.\n\nFormal flower arrangements were closely allied to the development of the Korean tea ceremony, and suggestions have been made that these were often corner-of-the-room arrangements on small tables using a central vessel with most often a small branch and a small group of local flowers. Sprigs of pear blossoms were particularly well known, and during the winters ever-green sprigs that would have enhanced celadonware, or given a cool elegance to whiteware.\n\nLeaves, blossoms, ferns, and grasses were also used. \n\nArrangements were primarily done by women in tea-houses, and in the greater houses, Confucian male masters may have done this as well.\n\nThis floral art was not documented before the 14th century as a distinct art. Votive altar arrangements of flowers for Buddhist temples were precursors. But it was under Confucian hands, in Joseon Yi dynasty times, that arrangements can be said definitely to have begun and were known, and included in illustrations by artists of that time. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34237857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34237857", "title": "Luis Recasens", "text": "Luis Recasens\n\nLuis Recasens Siches (1903, Guatemala City – 1977) was a Spanish politician and a legal philosopher.\n"}
{"id": "33883266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33883266", "title": "Nadežda Čačinovič", "text": "Nadežda Čačinovič\n\nNadežda Čačinovič (born 1 April 1947) is a Croatian philosopher, sociologist, comparatist, feminist and Croatian-language book author.\n\nShe was born to Slovene parents in Budapest in 1947 where her father Rudolf Čačinovič was serving as a military attache.\nShe graduated in philosophy and comparative literature at the University of Ljubljana. She subsequently studied at the University of Bonn from 1968 to 1970 where her father was serving as ambassador of Yugoslavia to West Germany. She obtained a doctorate and became a professor at the Department of Philosophy of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at the University of Zagreb, being employed there since 1976.\n\nShe is also a member of an Advisory Board of a left-wing magazine \"Novi Plamen\". Čačinovič was also active in left wing politics, running for parliament for the Social Democratic Action of Croatia.\n\nSince 2009 she has been the president of the Croatian P.E.N. Centre, member of International PEN.\n\nAfter Andrea Zlatar-Violić became Minister of Culture in the Croatian government, Čačinovič was selected by Zlatar-Violić to take her place in the ministry's Committee for Books, Publication, and Bookselling Activities on 4 July 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "504020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504020", "title": "Nicolai Hartmann", "text": "Nicolai Hartmann\n\nNicolai Hartmann (; 20 February 1882 – 9 October 1950) was a Baltic German philosopher. He is regarded as a key representative of critical realism and as one of the most important twentieth century metaphysicians.\n\nHartmann was born of German descent in Riga, which was then the capital of the Governorate of Livonia in the Russian Empire, and which is now in Latvia. He was the son of the engineer Carl August Hartmann and his wife Helene, born Hackmann. He attended from 1897, the German-language high school in Saint Petersburg. In the years 1902–1903 he studied Medicine at the University of Tartu (then Jurjev), and 1903–1905 classical philology and philosophy at the Saint Petersburg Imperial University with his friend Vasily Sesemann. In 1905 he went to the University of Marburg, where he studied with the neo-Kantians Hermann Cohen and Paul Natorp. In Marburg began a lifelong friendship with Heinz Heimsoeth. In 1907 he received his doctorate with the thesis \"Das Seinsproblem in der griechischen Philosophie vor Plato\" (\"The Problem of Being in Greek Philosophy Before Plato\"). In 1909 he published the book \"Platos Logik des Seins\" (\"The Logic of Being in Plato\"). The same year he completed his habilitation on Proclus: \"Des Proklus Diadochus philosophische Anfangsgründe der Mathematik\" (\"Proclus Diadochus' Philosophical Elements of Mathematics\").\n\nIn 1911, Hartmann married Alice Stepanitz, with whom he had a daughter, Dagmar, in 1912. In 1912 he published \"Die philosophischen Grundfragen der Biologie\" (\"The Philosophical Foundations of Biologie\"). From 1914 to 1918 he did military service as an interpreter, letter censor, and intelligence officer. In 1919, i.e., after the war, he received a position as \"Privatdozent\" in Marburg. Around this time he met Martin Heidegger. In 1920 he became Associate Professor (\"außerordentlicher Professor\") and in 1921 appeared the work that established him as an independent philosophical thinker, \"Grundzüge einer Metaphysik der Erkenntnis\" (\"Foundation of a Metaphysics of Knowledge\"). The following year he became Full Professor (\"ordentlicher Professor\") as successor of the Chair held by Natorp. In 1925, he moved to Cologne, where he came into contact with Max Scheler. In 1926 he published his second major work—\"Ethik\"—in which he develops a material value ethics akin to that of Scheler. The same year he divorced from his wife.\n\nIn 1929 Hartmann married Frida Rosenfeld, with whom he had a son, Olaf (1930), and a daughter, Lise (1932). In 1931 he became Professor of Theoretical Philosophy in Berlin. He held the Chair until 1945. During this time he successively published many pieces of his ontology: \"Das Problem des geistigen Seins\" (\"The Problem of Spiritual Being\") (1933), \"Zur Grundlegung der Ontologie\" (\"On the Foundation of Ontology\") (1935), \"Möglichkeit und Wirklichkeit\" (\"Possibility and Actuality\") (1938) and \"Der Aufbau der realen Welt. Grundriß der allgemeinen Kategorienlehre\" (\"The Structure of the Real World. Outline of the General Theory of Categories\") (1940). The unrest of the National Socialist period seems to have left Hartmann relatively undisturbed in his task of developing a new ontology. In the \"SD-Dossiers über Philosophie-Professoren\" (i.e. SD-files concerning philosophy professors) that were set up by the SS Security Service (SD) Nicolai Hartmann was classified from an SS-point of view in the following way: \"has always been a nationalist. Loyal to National Socialism, too, without political activity, but a social attitude has to be acknowledged. (cf. donations to the NSV and hosting children during school vacations)\".\n\nIn 1942, Hartmann edited a volume entitled \"Systematische Philosophie\", in which he contributed the essay \"Neue Wege der Ontologie\" (\"New Ways of Ontology\"), which summarizes his work in ontology.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1950, Hartmann taught in Göttingen. He died of a stroke in 1950. In the year of his death, there appeared his \"Philosophie der Natur\" (\"Philosophy of Nature\"). His works \"Teleologisches Denken\" (\"Teleological Thinking\") (1951) and \"Ästhetik\" (\"Aesthetics\") (1953) were published posthumously.\n\nHe is regarded as an important representative of critical realism and as one of the major metaphysicians of the twentieth century. Among Hartmann's many students were Boris Pasternak, Hans-Georg Gadamer, Emil Cioran, Jakob Klein, Delfim Santos and Max Wehrli. He is the modern discoverer of emergence — originally called by him \"categorial novum\". His encyclopedic work is basically forgotten today, although famous during his lifetime. His early work in the philosophy of biology has been cited in modern discussions of genomics and cloning, and his views on consciousness and free will are currently in vogue among contributors to the \"Journal of Consciousness Studies\".\n\nIn Hartmann's ontological theory, the levels of reality are: (1) the inorganic level (German: \"anorganische Schicht\"), (2) the organic level (\"organische Schicht\"), (3) the psychical/emotional level (\"seelische Schicht\") and (4) the intellectual/cultural level (\"geistige Schicht\"). In the \"Structure of the Real World\" (\"Der Aufbau der realen Welt\"), Hartmann postulates four laws that apply to the levels of reality.\n\n\n\"The tragedy of man is that of somebody who is starving and sitting at a richly laden table but does not reach out with his hand, because he cannot see what is right in front of him. For the real world has inexhaustible splendour, the real life is full of meaning and abundance, where we grasp it, it is full of miracles and glory.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4410781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4410781", "title": "Objectivity (science)", "text": "Objectivity (science)\n\nObjectivity in science is an attempt to uncover truths about the natural world by eliminating personal biases, emotions, and false beliefs. It is often linked to observation as part of the scientific method. It is thus intimately related to the aim of testability and reproducibility. To be considered objective, the results of measurement must be communicated from person to person, and then for third parties, as an advance in a collective understanding of the world. Such demonstrable knowledge has ordinarily conferred demonstrable powers of prediction or technology.\n\nThe problem of philosophical objectivity is contrasted with personal subjectivity, sometimes exacerbated by the overgeneralization of a hypothesis to the whole. \"E.g.\" Newton's law of universal gravitation appears to be the norm for the attraction between celestial bodies, but it was later superseded by the more general theory of relativity.\n\nThe scientific method was argued for by Enlightenment philosopher Francis Bacon, rose to popularity with the discoveries of Isaac Newton and his followers, and continued into later eras. In the early eighteenth century, there existed an epistemic virtue in science which has been called \"truth-to-nature\". This ideal was practiced by Enlightenment naturalists and scientific atlas-makers, and involved active attempts to eliminate any idiosyncrasies in their representations of nature in order to create images thought best to represent \"what truly is.\" Judgment and skill were deemed necessary in order to determine the \"typical\", \"characteristic\", \"ideal\", or \"average.\" In practicing truth-to-nature naturalists did not seek to depict exactly what was seen; rather, they sought a reasoned image.\n\nIn the latter half of the nineteenth century objectivity in science was born when a new practice of \"mechanical objectivity\" appeared. Let nature speak for itself' became the watchword of a new brand of scientific objectivity.\" It was at this time that idealized representations of nature, which were previously seen as a virtue, were now seen as a vice. Scientists began to see it as their duty to actively restrain themselves from imposing their own projections onto nature. The aim was to liberate representations of nature from subjective, human interference and in order to achieve this scientists began using self-registering instruments, cameras, wax molds, and other technological devices.\n\nIn the twentieth century \"trained judgment\" supplemented mechanical objectivity as scientists began to recognize that, in order for images or data to be of any use, scientists needed to be able to see scientifically; that is, to interpret images or data and identify and group them according to particular professional training, rather than to simply depict them mechanically. Since the latter half of the nineteenth century, objectivity has come to involve a combination of trained judgment and mechanical objectivity.\n\nAnother methodological aspect is the avoidance of bias, which can involve cognitive bias, cultural bias, or sampling bias. Methods for avoiding or overcoming such biases include random sampling and double-blind trials. However, objectivity in measurement can be unobtainable in certain circumstances. Even the most quantitative social sciences such as economics employ measures that are constructs (conventions, to employ the term coined by Pierre Duhem). For instance, one can use different weighting schemes when calculating inflation rates. Applying different conventions (such as the Paasche and Laspayres Indices) leads to obtaining diverging results.\n\nNext to unintentional and systematic error, there is always the possibility of deliberate misrepresentation of scientific results, whether for gain, fame, or ideological motives. \n\nA critical argument on scientific objectivity and positivism is that all science has a degree of interpretivism. In the 1920s, Percy Bridgman's \"The Logic of Modern Physics\" and the operationalism presented was centered in such recognition.\n\nBased on a historical review of the development of certain scientific theories in his book, \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", scientist and historian Thomas Kuhn raised some philosophical objections to claims of the possibility of scientific understanding being truly objective. In Kuhn's analysis, scientists in different disciplines organise themselves into paradigms within which scientific research is done, junior scientists are educated, and scientific problems are determined.\n\nWhen observational data arises which appears to contradict or falsify a given scientific paradigm, scientists within that paradigm historically have not immediately rejected it, as Karl Popper's philosophical theory of falsificationism would have them do. Instead they have gone to considerable lengths to resolve the apparent conflict without rejecting the paradigm. Through ad hoc variations to the theory and sympathetic interpretation of the data, supporting scientists will resolve the apparent conundrum. In extreme cases, they may ignore the data altogether. Thus, the failure of a scientific paradigm will go into crisis when a significant portion of scientists working in the field lose confidence in it. The corollary of this observation is that a paradigm is contingent on the social order amongst scientists at the time it gains ascendancy.\n\nIn \"Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective\" (1988), Donna Haraway argues that objectivity in science and philosophy is traditionally understood as a kind of disembodied and transcendent \"conquering gaze from nowhere.\" She argues that this kind of objectivity, in which the subject is split apart and distanced from the object, is an impossible \"illusion, a god trick.\" She demands a re-thinking of objectivity in such a way that, while still striving for \"faithful accounts of the real world,\" we must also acknowledge our perspective within the world. She calls this new kind of knowledge-making \"situated knowledges.\" Objectivity, she argues, \"turns out to be about particular and specific embodiment and ... not about the false vision promising transcendence of all limits and responsibility\". This new objectivity, \"allows us to become answerable for what we learn how to see.\" Thus, Haraway is not only critiquing the idea that objectivity as we have long understood it is possible; she is also arguing that if we continue to approach knowledge-making in this way, then we wash our hands of any responsibility for our truth claims. In contrast, she argues, approaching knowledge-making from an embodied perspective forces us to take responsibility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36400847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36400847", "title": "Open-mindedness", "text": "Open-mindedness\n\nOpen-mindedness is receptiveness to new ideas. Open-mindedness relates to the way in which people approach the views and knowledge of others, and in the words of Dean Tjosvold \"incorporate the beliefs that others should be free to express their views and that the value of others’ knowledge should be recognized.\" Jason Baehr defines an open-minded person as being one who \"characteristically moves beyond or temporarily sets aside his own doxastic commitments in order to give a fair and impartial hearing to the intellectual opposition\". Jack Kwong's definition sees open-mindedness as the \"willingness to take a novel viewpoint seriously.\" \n\nAccording to Wayne Riggs, open-mindedness springs from an awareness of the inherent fallibility of one's beliefs; hence, open-minded individuals are more inclined to listen to, and seriously consider, alternative viewpoints.\n\nThere are various scales for the measurement of open-mindedness. It has been argued that schools should emphasize open-mindedness more than relativism in their science instruction, because the scientific community does not embrace a relativistic way of thinking.\n\nAccording to Bertrand Russell, critical thinking presupposes open-mindedness. Among other things, the critical attitude involves an open-minded outlook with respect to our beliefs.\n\nOpen-mindedness is generally considered an important personal attribute for effective participation in management teams and other groups. Open-mindedness is usually encouraged in group settings, within different cultures and new environments. According to David DiSalvo, closed-mindedness, or an unwillingness to consider new ideas, can result from the brain's natural dislike for ambiguity. According to this view, the brain has a \"search and destroy\" relationship with ambiguity and evidence contradictory to people's current beliefs tends to make them uncomfortable by introducing such ambiguity. Research confirms that belief-discrepant-closed-minded persons have less tolerance for cognitive inconsistency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34741578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34741578", "title": "Popular belief", "text": "Popular belief\n\nPopular beliefs are studied as a sub-field of social sciences, like history and anthropology, which examines spiritual beliefs that develop not independently from religion, but still outside of established religious institutions. Aspects of popular piety, historical folklore, and historical superstitions are some of the themes explored.\n\nSocial scientists who study popular belief offer explanations for behaviors and events that arose as a means of redress in times of adversity or from perceived practical or spiritual utility. The cause of the European witch craze, responsible for the death of many older women in the sixteenth and seventeenth century, is one such area of research. The attitudes to sanctity and relics in the central Middle Ages, which represent a bottom-up phenomenon (whereby relics became acceptable to the Roman Catholic Church as a result of their popularity among the masses), is another widely studied area of popular belief.\n\nThe population of pre-modern, Western Europe was exceedingly liable to pain, sickness, and premature death. Epidemics such as the bubonic plague and famine plowed through European towns during the late Middle Ages, at times cutting the population by half. People often turned to saints and their relics, as well as magic, making a charm from the Eucharist wafer for example, for relief of both great and small problems.\n\nAstrology, witchcraft, magical healing, divination, ancient prophecies, ghosts, and fairies were taken very seriously by people at all social and economic levels in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Helplessness in the face of disease and human disaster helped to perpetuate this belief in magic and the supernatural. The early effects of the Little Ice Age kept the food supply at precarious levels. Social unrest and witch hunts abounded. Some forms of magic were challenged by the Protestant Reformation.\n\nOnly with the increased search for scientific explanation of the universe did Western Europeans begin to abandon their recourse to the supernatural. Science and technology have made us less vulnerable to some of the hazards which confronted the people of the past.\n\nYet in many parts of the contemporary world, spirit beliefs and practices have continue to serve a pivotal role in addressing the discontinuities and uncertainties of modern life. The myriad ways in which devotees engage the spirit world shows the tremendous creative potential of these practices and their innate adaptability to changing times and circumstances.\n\nAnthropological case studies from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Myanmar, Laos, and Vietnam investigate the role and impact of different social, political, and economic dynamics in the reconfiguration of local spirit worlds in modern Southeast Asia. Their findings contribute to the re-enchantment debate by revealing that the “spirited modernities” that have emerged in the process not only embody a distinct feature of the contemporary moment, but also invite a critical rethinking of the concept of modernity itself.\n\nAlso known as folk religion, Popular piety (or popular religion, personal piety) refers to religious practices that arose and occur outside of official religious institutions. Typically the term is used within the context of the Catholic church in Western Europe, and the practices are generally allowed, if not accepted. Forms of popular piety can be seen from the earliest Christian communities through the Middle Ages and into the present day.\n\nFolk religions take two forms in Asia: as distinct religions (East Asia) and as popularized versions of world religions (South and Southeast Asia). Chinese Folk Religion, in its present form dating back to the Song dynasty (960-1279), includes elements traceable to prehistoric times (ancestor worship, shamanism, divination, a belief in ghosts, and sacrificial rituals to the spirits of sacred objects and places, like relics in the West) as well as aspects of Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism. Buddhist elements include believing in karma and rebirth, accepting Buddha and other bodhisattvas as gods, and using Buddhist meditational techniques. The Confucian influence is the concept of filial piety and associated practices. The numerous gods are organized into a hierarchy headed by the Jade Emperor, a deity borrowed from Taoism. Important annual rituals reflect their origin in an agrarian way of life (e.g., a harvesttime festival), but have been given new or additional meaning to accord with the ancestral cult or Buddhism. The religion is not centrally organized and lacks a formal canon. Rituals take place before home altars or at temples, which have no fixed congregations. Adherents vary considerably in belief and practice. Generally, folk religionists are fatalistic yet believe that one's luck can be affected by pleasing ancestors or gods, by locating graves and buildings in places where vital natural forces are located (geomancy), and by balancing opposing forces (yin, yang) within one's body.\n\nIn Korea, Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism have influenced the elite, while a folk religion has existed among the common people that resembles Chinese Folk Religion. However, unlike the Chinese case, most Korean spirit mediums are women, a vestige from a time when female deities dominated the folk religion. The Japanese have been influenced by Shintoism, Buddhism, and Confucianism. Buddhism and Shintoism have separate organizations, buildings, festivals, and religious specialists. Thus one can speak of Japanese religions that individuals blend in different ways but not of a distinct Japanese folk religion.\n\nIndonesia is an example of Asian countries where syncretic religions have been dominant. On Java, nearly everyone identifies with Islam, but most people practice Agama Jawa, Javanese religion, or Javanese Islam. This form of religion is a mixture of animistic, Islamic, and to a lesser extent Hindu elements (at one time, Java was under the control of local Hindu rulers). Those who practice Javanese religion call themselves Muslims. In addition, Javanese religionists employ animistic rituals, such as ceremonial meals commemorating a person's transition to a new stage in the life cycle or important moments in the life of the village (slametan, the rituals of which reflect animistic beliefs), consult dukun (magicians capable of controlling the impersonal force that exists in all things), and use their own numerology to ensure that actions are synchronized with natural processes. The counterpart to Javanese Islam in southern Asia is \"popular Islam\". In a somewhat similar manner, one can speak of Burmese, Sri Lankan, and Thai Buddhism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28038666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28038666", "title": "Qayyum (Sufism)", "text": "Qayyum (Sufism)\n\nA Qayyum (pronounced Qayyoom, Arabic/Urdu: ) is a special spiritual position in Sufism, especially in the Naqshbandi tradition. The term was first coined by Ahmed Sirhindi, who was the first \"qayyum\". According to him, a \"qayyum\" is a dignitary upon whom the whole order of existence depends. The word is derived from \"Al-Qayyum\", a name of God in Islam that has the same meaning. According to the doctrine, only one \"qayyum\" is alive at any particular time.\n\nThe first \"qayyum\" was Ahmed Sirhindi (d. 1656). The second was Ahmed Sirhindi's third son, Khwaja Muhammad Masum Faruqi (d.1721), who was followed by his son Khwaja Muhammad Hujjat-ullah Naqshband (d. 1737). The fourth \"qayyum\" was Khwaja Muhammad Zubair (d. 1774), the grandson of Khwaja Naqshband.\n\nSeveral other influential Sufis have claimed the title of \"qayyum\".\n\nMirza Mazhar Jan-e-Janaan (d. 1817) was an important saint of the Naqshbandi Sufi order in the 18th century. He was also a renowned poet of modern Urdu. Shah Waliullah, an Islamic scholar contemporary with Mirza Mazhar, is quoted as saying, \"As far as I can see, and I can see the seven continents, there is no saint today like Mirza Mazhar.\"\n\nMuhammad Safiullah Faruqi was the son of Ghulam Masoom Faruqi Mujaddidi. He died in Dhu al-Qi'da in 1844 on his return journey from the \"hajj\". Makhdoomsafi ullah died in Hudaida, a coastal city of Yemen.\n\nGhulam Ali Dehlavi (d. 1662) is also claimed to be the \"mujaddid\", a person supposed to restore Islam every century, for the 13th century of the Islamic calendar.\n\nAbu Saeed Faruqi Mujaddidi (d.1672) was predicted to be the next \"qayyum\" by Ghulam Ali Dehlavi, his own \"shaykh\".\n\nAhmed Miya Sarkar Ganj Muradabadi was the Qayyum of his time, he is the eldest son and Janasheen of Gaus-E-Zaman, Owais-E-Dauran Maulana Shah Fazle Rehma Ganj Muradabadi one of the greatest master of Naqshbandi golden chain.\n\nToday, numerous \"shaykhs\" belonging to the Naqshbandi Sufi order claim or are claimed by others to be the current \"qayyum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9368804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9368804", "title": "Richard Brinkley", "text": "Richard Brinkley\n\nRichard Brinkley (died c.1379) was an English Franciscan scholastic philosopher and theologian. He was at the University of Oxford in the mid-fourteenth century; he produced a \"Summa Logicae\" in a nominalist vein in the 1360s or early 1370s, and other works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6735375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6735375", "title": "Roger de Piles", "text": "Roger de Piles\n\nRoger de Piles (7 October 1635 – 5 April 1709) was a French painter, engraver, art critic and diplomat.\n\nBorn in Clamecy, Roger de Piles studied philosophy and theology, and devoted himself to painting.\n\nIn 1662 he became tutor to Michel Amelot de Gournay, whom he was to follow throughout his life, acting as secretary to his various missions as French ambassador to Venice, Portugal, Spain.\n\nIn Venice (1682–1685) he started a famous collection of prints, drawings and paintings of Giorgione, Correggio, Rembrandt, Claude Lorrain, Rubens, Antoine Coypel, Jean-Baptiste Forest.\n\nHe also acquired a taste for political intrigue using his travels ostensibly undertaken to study the European collections, as a buyer for Louis XIV, as cover for confidential missions - for example in Germany and Austria (1685) on behalf of Louis' minister, the marquis de Louvois.\n\nHe was not always fortunate as a spy. In 1692, during the War of the League of Augsburg, he was arrested in the Hague carrying a false passport and imprisoned for the next five years. He spent his time writing \"L'Abrégé de la vie des peintres ...avec un traité du peintre parfait\". published in 1699 following his appointement as Conseiller Honoraire to the Académie de peinture et de sculpture.\n\nIn 1705 he followed Amelot de Gournay to Spain but illness forced him to return to Paris, where he died in 1709.\n\nHis important contribution to aesthetic theory rests on his \"Dialogue sur le coloris\" (\"Dialogue on colours\"), in which he initiated his famous defence of Rubens in the argument started in 1671 by Philippe de Champaigne on the relative merits of drawing and color in the work of Titian (in a lecture to the Académie de peinture et de sculpture on Titian's \"Virgin and Child with St John\".)\n\nThe argument is most fascinating as an early debate on classic vs modern in painting; in essence on the mathematics of proportion and perspective in drawing—the classic approach— as opposed to the colored brush stroke—the approach of the moderns. In his detailed study of the argument, \"Roger de Piles et les débats sur le coloris au siècle de Louis XIV\" (1965), B. Teyssèdre gives a touching account of the \"bohème\" of the \"modern\" \"réfusés\" in seventeenth century Paris, a history that was to repeat itself with the Impressionists.\n\nIn the course of the argument Roger de Piles introduced the term \"clair-obscur\" (Chiaroscuro) to highlight the effect of color in accentuating the tension between light and dark in a painting.\n\nThe way Roger de Piles documented his argument with Venetian and northern European examples was of influence to Antoine Coypel, Hyacinthe Rigaud, Nicolas de Largillière and François de Troy.\n\nTo his last published work: \"Cours de peinture par principes avec un balance de peintres\" (1708) de Piles appended a list of fifty-six major painters with whose work he had acquainted himself as a connoisseur during his travels.\n\nTo each painter in the list he gave marks from 0 to 18 for composition, drawing, color and expression. This gave an overview of aesthetic appreciation hinging on the balance between color and design. The highest marks went to Raffaello Sanzio and Rubens, with a slight bias on color for Rubens, a slight bias on drawing for Raphaël. Painters who scored very badly in anything but color were Giovanni Bellini, Giorgione and remarkably Michelangelo Caravaggio with 16 on color and 0 (zero) on expression. Painters who fell far behind Rubens and Raphaël but whose balance between color and design was perfect were Lucas van Leyden, Sebastian Bourdon, Albrecht Dürer.\n\nThe complete list is transcribed here from Manlio Brusatin:\"Histoire des couleurs\" (Paris: Flammarion, 1986, pp. 103–104), reproduced in Elisabeth G. Holt \"Literary Sources of Art History\", (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1947), pp. 415–416\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42797721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42797721", "title": "SEXINT", "text": "SEXINT\n\nSEXINT is the practice of monitoring and/or indexing the pornographic preferences of internet users in an effort to later use the information for blackmail. The term is a portmanteau of \"sex\"ual \"int\"elligence retrieved on an intelligence service target and was first used by Jennifer Granick, Director of Civil Liberties at the Stanford Center for Internet and Society. \n\nThe term was first used specifically in reference to the practice by Five Eyes member, the National Security Agency of the United States of America. It is unclear how often these programs and methods are used in comparison to other Five Eyes initiatives such as Optic Nerve (GCHQ), MUSCULAR, and XKEYSCORE.\n\nThe extent to which SEXINT itself is used is unknown. Targets who have come forward are few and far between. While first-hand accounts are rare it is confirmed that 6 people, all followers of Muslims not involved in any terror plots, were demonstrated as potential targets of this method for their influence on the popular video hosting site YouTube, Facebook and other social media websites.\n\nThe National Security Agency has been able to keep most specific instances of abuse of intel such as SEXINT under secret. A few reports have slipped through, including an employee able to use the related tactic of gathering LOVEINT to search for his ex-girlfriend on his first day of work.\n\nThere has been much controversy over whether or not agencies such as the National Security Agency have been spying on American citizens. In early May 2014 Edward Snowden stated that American citizens are watched more closely than anyone else.\n\n"}
{"id": "13491511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13491511", "title": "Scruples (game)", "text": "Scruples (game)\n\nA Question of Scruples is a card game based on ethical dilemmas. The game was invented by Henry Makow in 1984 and developed by High Game Enterprises.\n\nPlayers are given five yellow cards apiece, each yellow card with a moral dilemma such as, \"You accidentally damage a car in a parking lot. Do you leave a note with your name and phone number?\" Each player also has a single red card, with either \"YES\", \"NO\", or \"DEPENDS\" printed upon it. The player must ask the question on a yellow card of the person who the holder of the yellow card believes most likely to reply with the answer on the questioner's red card. (The game thus tests how well players know each other.)\n\nIf the answer matches that on the red card, the questioner discards both yellow card and red card, then takes another red card. The game is won by the player who first discards all five of his yellow cards.\n\nThe game was originally designed and marketed by Henry Makow in Canada in 1984, who licensed the game to Maruca Industries–Carl Eisenberg. The game took off in the United States due to marketing program by Maruca that resulted in the game being played twice on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\", and featured in \"The Wall Street Journal\" along with other publications and newspapers. Carl Eisenberg negotiated a deal with Steven Hassenfeld of Hasbro, through licensing agent Douglas Polumbaum, to sell the US rights to Hasbro, which resulted in Hasbro also licensing other rights directly from Henry Makow in 1986.\n\nMaruca initially sold 500,000 copies and, being a small company, could not produce the product fast enough. Hasbro was so excited by the potential of the game that they gave Maruca the ultimatum of licensing to them, or being knocked off and advertised out of business. Maruca licensed the game for a sum of $1,500,000, and Makow was paid $1,000,000 plus a royalty.\n\nThe game sold to Hasbro, who marketed the game (partly through Parker Brothers) for several years. The game has since sold over seven million copies worldwide and has been translated into five languages. Hasbro later returned the rights to Henry Makow of High Game Enterprises.\n\nDue to the cultural aspect of the moral dilemma questions, Scruples was updated every five years, until the Millennium edition, which is the latest version. It contains 150 questions from four previous versions and 100 new questions.\n\nPopularity of the game led to several computer versions developed by Leisure Genius in 1987. Versions were released for the Commodore 64, ZX Spectrum, and Amstrad CPC.\n\nAt one time, pilots for a game show version of the game were taped.\n\nIn 2016, the original inventor introduced an iOS version for Apple products.\n\nThe game was featured in a first-season episode of \"Everybody Loves Raymond\", \"The Game\". A version of the game called \"Ethical Dilemma\" appeared in an episode of \"Married...With Children\". \"2 Broke Girls\" featured a bootleg version of the game called Scrumples.\n\n"}
{"id": "419841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419841", "title": "Systematic ideology", "text": "Systematic ideology\n\nSystematic ideology is a study of ideologies founded in the late 1930s in and around London, England by Harold Walsby, George Walford and others. It seeks to understand the origin and development of ideologies, how ideologies and ideological groups work together, and the possibilities of guiding the development of ideologies on a global scale. The basic premise of systematic ideology is that ideology is the central motivator in human affairs; that the characteristics that make up the major ideologies come in sets; that those sets of characteristics form a series; and that the ideological series forms a system.\n\nThe group that formed around Harold Walsby and his ideas was a breakaway from the Socialist Party of Great Britain. During the Second World War this group developed a fascination with\nperceived impediments to mass socialist consciousness among the working class. The theory they developed was expressed by Walsby himself in his 1947 book \"The Domain of Ideologies\" and those involved in the group set up an organisation to propagate their views called the Social Science Association, which existed from 1944 until 1956, attracting a number of new recruits during the ‘Turner Controversy’. It was later succeeded by the\nWalsby Society and the journal which emerged from it called \"Ideological Commentary\".\n\nFrom the 1980s onwards, George Walford, editor of \"Ideological Commentary\" and former secretary of the SSA, watered down some of the theory’s more obviously elitist elements and even left the SPGB money at the time of his death. He did this on the grounds that although in his view the Party would never help achieve socialism it did perform a valuable function by\ndemonstrating through its application of critical analysis, logical thought and theory the limitations of other political groups that valued these less highly (a perspective which had informed Harold Walsby’s decision in 1950 to surreptitiously rejoin the Party through its postal branch\nand write articles for the \"Socialist Standard\" under the pseudonym \"H.W.S.Bee\").\n\n\"Ideological Commentary\" survived until the death of Walford in 1994. , barely a handful of systematic ideology's exponents remain.\n\nWalsby, Walford and their group produced a large number of leaflets, pamphlets and other literature over time, a fair chunk of it dealing with the SPGB. The most readable expressions of systematic ideology are Walford’s book \"Beyond Politics\", published in 1990, and the pamphlet \"Socialist Understanding\", published ten years earlier.\n\nThe theory of the group developed over time and was re-christened ‘systematic ideology’ by Walford in 1976. Its basic premise was that people’s assumptions and identifications (the factors making up their ‘ideology’) are not explicable in terms of material conditions in general and their relationship to the means of production in particular—and are never likely to be. Instead, there are persistent and distinct ideological groups in society, cutting across social classes and forming a series, with the largest groups being most typically guided in their thoughts and\nactions by a preference for family, authority, familiarity and tradition. Politically, these preferences find predominant expression in the ideas of the large number of so-called\n‘non-politicals’ in society, and in Conservatism and then Liberalism (the strength of these preferences gradually weakening through the series).\n\nAs the series progresses further, the next, progressively smaller, ideological groups seek to repress these identifications and preferences in favor of dynamism, social change, logical thought and the pursuit of theory as a guide to decision-making, these being expressed politically in Labourism, more overtly still in Communism and then, in an ultimate and extreme form, in Anarchism (or ‘Anarchosocialism’, the purist variety of it allegedly expounded by the Socialist Party of Great Britain). The more an ideology represses the preferences for family, tradition, etc. in favour of social change, dynamism and the pursuit of theory as a guide to action, the fewer in\nnumber its adherents are likely to be, with anarchists (or ‘anarcho-socialists’) being the smallest of all. Those seeking radical social change, so the theory contends, will always be hampered and restrained by the enduring preferences of the largest ideological groups.\n\nIn his book, \"Beyond Politics\", George Walford seeks to analyse ideologies on the basis of its adherents' surface behaviors, their underlying sentiments and assumptions (\"ethos\"), and underlying cognitions (\"eidos\"). Of particular interest to him are a single group, \"the non-politicals\", and five major political ideologies, \"conservatism, liberalism, socialism, communism, and anarchism\", which can be listed as a series, with each seeking to \"repress\" its predecessor. He forms a series of hypotheses about the nature of those six ideologies, observing that they may be gauged upon different dimensions: according to \"relative size and political influence\" of its adherents, their relative \"reliance upon theory over practice\", and the \"degree to which they sought change\". He postulates that the non-politicals have the greatest influence and least interest in theory, while anarchists exhibit the least influence and greatest interest in theory, with the rest having mixed degrees of those properties.\n\nHe also formulates that each is relative to certain ideological \"ethos\": \"a) (short-term) expediency, b) (traditional) principles, c) precision, d) (fundamental) reform, e) revolution, and e) repudiation\". By his formulations, historical change, development of technology, and development of more complicated social relations can be explained as occurring in stages along this series. \n\nWhile some other philosophers have expressed the opinion that political liberalism is the peak or end-stage of historical development (see Francis Fukuyama's \"End of History\" thesis), Walford claims the opposite. \"More than ever before, our world is a boiling, bounding, bubbling ferment of ideological novelty, and the rate of change is accelerating. If the ideological system has reached completion it is only in the sense that a newborn child is complete.\" (Beyond Politics)\n\nHistorically, systematic ideology has been unable to produce a falsifiable and causal model for what it is that influences some people and not others to gravitate towards a particular ideology.\n\nWalsby’s early version of the theory was clearly hierarchical (with those understanding the theory being the smallest group of all, metaphorically positioned at the apex of a pyramid, just above the SPGB) and it lent itself to criticism on the grounds that it was merely a particularly\nconvoluted type of ‘human nature’ argument. This was essentially the response outlined in the \"Socialist Standard\"’s April 1949 review of Walsby’s book, called \"The Domain of Sterilities\".\n\nTwin studies have shown that genetics have a strong effect on both attitude formation, and receptivity to ideological affiliation. This may provide some answer to the criticism that systematic ideology lacks a causal model. According to one study:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39530232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39530232", "title": "Tergar Meditation Community", "text": "Tergar Meditation Community\n\nTergar Meditation Community is a Buddhist meditation community led by Tibetan meditation master and best-selling author Yongey Mingyur Rinpoche.\n\nTergar means \"encampment of the treasure revealer\".\n\nThe Tergar largely descends from the Tibetan Buddhist Karma Kagyu lineage, and to a lesser extent the Nyingma lineage. \"Ter\" means treasure in the Tibetan language - meaning the practices and wisdom to obtain our greatest potential, alleviate suffering and attain enlightenment. \"Gar\" means gathering. \"Tergar\" then is the place where people assemble to enable transformation.\n\nThe Karma Kagyu lineage was passed down through Karmapas, Tai Situ Rinpoches and incarnations of Mingyur Rinpoche. The Nyingma lineage was transmitted through the treasure teachings (terma) of Kagyu and Nyingma masters.\n\nThe first school of the Tergar lineage began in the late 1600s by the 1st Mingyur Rinpoche, a wandering yogi, and his two sons who were tulkus. They first gathered in a tent in a camp (gar) and then in a monastery they built, Tergar Rigdzin Kacholing in eastern Tibet near Derge. His sons ran the monastery and the 1st Mingyur Rinpoche traveled and taught the Kagyu termas Pema Benza, Dorje Drolo, and the Union of Wisdom and Method Longevity Practice. These termas have been held and passed down by incarnations of Tai Situ Rinpoche and Karmapa. Tibetan texts have been destroyed by the Chinese government, so that the early Tergar lineage and history has been lost in the process.\n\nThe Tergar Rigdzin Kacholing monastery grew in the 18th and 19th centuries to include a nunnery, a small shedra, and 2 retreat centers. Another monastery, Namlong Gompa was established. The 6th Mingyur Rinpoche oversaw the studies of more than 100 monks and 60 nuns at the Tergar monasteries before he left Tibet and went into exile with the 16th Karmapa. The Chinese government looted the monastery buildings and jailed Gase Rinpoche, the reincarnation of the eldest son of the 1st Mingyur Rinpoche, who had remained at Tergar. He was released from jail in 1982 and with Pema Karpo Rinpoche, began rebuilding the monastery, with a retreat center and shrine room.\n\nTulku Urgyen Rinpoche continued the teachings of the Tergar tradition, including Dzogchen Desum and Chokgyur Lingpa's termas, with masters, lamas and major regents of the Kagyu and Nyingma traditions. His family line was the main holder of the Barom Kagyu lineage and was also linked to the Karma Kagyu lineage. He held the teachings of three great Nyingma masters Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Taye, Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo and Terchen Chokgyur Lingpa.\n\nThe 7th Mingyur Rinpoche (b. 1975) received Nyingma transmissions through his father Tulku Urgyen Rinpoche and Nyoshul Khen Rinpoche and Kagyu teachings from Tai Situ Rinpoche and Saljey Rinpoche. He also integrated modern ways of presenting Buddhist philosophy and practices of mindfulness, compassion and loving-kindness to people from a wide range of beliefs and backgrounds.\n\nThe Tibetan Buddhist community's mission is \"to make the ancient practice of meditation accessible to the modern world,\" leveraging meditation practices that have been used for centuries to \"transform suffering into joy and confusion into wisdom.\"\n\nPrograms are offered to Buddhists and non-Buddhists in Tergar practice groups and meditation centers. The foundational study begins with three seminars on the \"Joy of Living\", which teaches how meditation \"can be used to calm the mind, open the heart, and develop insight.\" Next is the \"Path of Liberation\" which is \"designed to strip away the causes of suffering and uncover the radiant awareness that underlies all experience.\"\n\nTergar Meditation Communities and Practice Groups provide seminars, study and meditation sessions. Tergar International manages training programs and development of study and practice materials outside of Asia. The Yongey Foundation was established by Rinpoche in 2003 to international activities, programs and publication of materials.\n\nIt has groups in the United States, Canada and Mexico in North America; Brazil in South America; Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom, Russia, Ukraine in Europe; India, Nepal, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Taiwan and Singapore; and in Queensland, Australia.\n\nSince Tergar International was founded in 2009, the Yongey Foundation focuses on the development and maintenance of the Kathmandu Tergar Ösel Ling Monastery in Nepal, Tergar Monastery in Eastern Tibet, and Tergar Monastery in Bodh Gaya in India, where Buddha achieved awakening. It also supports the development of a monastery for Tergar nuns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337621", "title": "The Christian Community", "text": "The Christian Community\n\nThe Christian Community () is a Christian denomination. It was founded in 1922 in Switzerland by a group of mainly Lutheran theologians and ministers led by Friedrich Rittelmeyer, inspired by Rudolf Steiner, the Austrian philosopher and founder of anthroposophy. Christian Community congregations exist as financially independent groups with regional and international administrative bodies overseeing their work. There are approximately 350 worldwide. The international headquarters are in Berlin, Germany.\n\nThe Christian Community is led by the \"circle of priests,\" with leaders known as coordinators appointed within the circle. A first coordinator (Erzoberlenker) is consulted by two second coordinators (Oberlenkers). There are also third coordinators (Lenkers) on the regional level and a synod of priests. There is no additional ordination for the leadership. The priesthood of the Christian Community has always been open to women.\n\nThe Christian Community does not require its members to conform to any specific teaching or behaviour. Seven sacraments are celebrated within the Community: the Eucharist, generally called the \"Act of Consecration of Man\", and six other sacraments: Baptism, Confirmation, Marriage, The Last Anointing, Sacramental Consultation (replacing Confession), and Ordination. There is also a special Sunday service for children of school age.\n\nRituals and sacraments are the same wherever they are celebrated. Services are generally celebrated in the language of the country in which they celebrated. The Act of Consecration of Man lasts approximately one hour. Sunday services are longer than weekday services because they contain a sermon in addition to holy communion. For the sacramental wine used in communion non-fermented grape juice is used rather than alcoholic wine. Three Christmas services are celebrated, one on December 24 (at midnight) and two on December 25. There are also added prayers for different liturgical seasons of the year.\n\nSome chapels have an organ, and occasionally the organ has quarter tones in addition to the conventional (equal temperament) tuning.\n\nThe Christian Community practices a complete freedom of teaching. The Priests may exert this freedom of teaching, provided that they do not contradict the sacraments which they celebrate. There is no official theology, nor articles of belief. Whatever is taught or written is a personal view.\n\nBasic tenets of some priests of the Christian Community are 1) free will, 2) reincarnation and 3) focus on Christ. For example, Jesus of Nazareth is seen as merely a physical vessel that enabled the spiritual being called Christ to influence the world.\n\nThe ideology of some priests of the Christian Community could be summarized with the following points:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43753427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43753427", "title": "The Demands of Liberal Education", "text": "The Demands of Liberal Education\n\nThe Demands of Liberal Education is a 1999 political philosophy book by Meira Levinson that establishes a liberal political theory of children's education that fits the mutual needs of the state and its diverse citizenry. She writes that the intent of a liberal education—an education that follows from a liberal society's values—is to maximize the autonomy of individual children through increasing their capacity for liberty. Levinson argues autonomy as a right to children. The book, published by Oxford University Press, aims to address a lacuna between educational policy and liberal political theory.\n\nLevinson advocates for a weak perfectionist state that can promote thick autonomy while accepting citizens who do not agree. She argues for public schools \"common\" to all citizens and \"detached\" from individual citizen or community values, and argues for a constitutional mandate to this end.\n\nReviewers recommended the book for public educators as an important contribution to liberal theory. Their common criticism was based around practical applications and the imposition of autonomy as a value, e.g., her contemporary examples of national civics education, how citizens who disagreed with the focus on autonomy could be accommodated, and how a weak perfectionist state could defend marginalized group interests in a public school setting.\n\nIn \"The Demands of Liberal Education\", Meira Levinson sets out to write a \"coherent liberal political theory of children's education\" that establishes how education can mutually satisfy the conflicting interests of the state and its diverse citizenry. \"Liberal education\" is defined as the type of education that follows from a liberal society's values. Levinson writes that the intent of liberal education is to maximize individual autonomy in successive generations, particularly by \"cultivating the 'capacity' to exercise liberty\". Autonomy and its cultivation is the primary moral aim of liberal education. Levinson argues from a liberal political philosophy rather than from a philosophy of education, and contends that a broad liberal education best equips for individual autonomy and thus creates the best republic.\n\nMeira Levinson published \"The Demands of Liberal Education\" in 1999 with Oxford University Press. She was a secondary schoolteacher at the time, having completed her D. Phil at the University of Oxford in 1997. Her thesis is titled \"Autonomy, Schooling, and the Reconstruction of the Liberal Educational Ideal\". The book was published in paperback in April 2002. The work aimed to address a lack of literature between educational policy and liberal political theory, with the intent to serve both constituencies.\n\nThe first chapter assumes the importance of liberalism. Levinson writes about the foundations of liberalism and asserts that the political liberalism of John Rawls is untenable for its lack of interest in values of autonomy. She concludes that liberal states must adopt a \"weakly perfectionist stance towards autonomy\", or a stance that promotes thick autonomy while accepting citizens who do not share that value. Levinson acknowledges the influence of non-formal education but focuses on public schools as the ideal institution for training citizens. She advocates for public schools that are \"common\" to all members of a community and \"detached\" from the internal values of the community (or parents).\n\nLevinson proposes that citizenship education can provide the \"cultural coherence\" that may be missing from a \"detached\" school—which would be a diverse community that prioritizes \"critical thinking, tolerance, and reflectiveness\". She argues for a constitutional mandate to establish the \"autonomy-promoting aim of education\" regardless of public support, and asks for a \"culture change\". Levinson distinguishes between parental and child rights, as laws exist for parents who do not act in their children's best interests. She adds that children are limited by the restricted scope of their parents' knowledge, and that the state should intervene to combat this small-mindedness in the interests of children. Specifically, she cites Christian criticism of curricular neutrality as a tactic to justify the imposition of their own \"limited and restrictive\" worldview, and that external knowledge increases the odds of their children not adopting their worldview. Her argument is that the limited worldviews resulting from \"excessive paternalism\" consequently stunt children's ability to develop adult autonomy or make rational decisions. Thus, state and parental paternalism should be limited where it will hurt individual \"capacity for autonomy\".\n\nTowards her \"weak perfectionist\" liberalism, Levinson requires three traits of a liberal society: (1) an agreeable, transparent, and equally accessible \"legitimation process\" for government, (2) pluralism, and (3) \"substantive liberal institutions\" such as \"individual liberties and ... governmental duties\". She pairs this view of liberalism with thick autonomy as \"the only defensible interpretation of liberalism\". Levinson develops an idea of autonomy that would be agreeable to most citizens while sufficient to guarantee liberalism's \"substantive liberal institutions\", and defines it as \"higher-order preference formation\" that minds one's personal values while allowing for openness to criticism and a developed personality. She argues that capacity for autonomy is a right to children, that the state is obligated to facilitate it, and that children are obligated to receive it. In this way, Levinson's stance is that the state must make education compulsory. Children require paternalistic decisions of some sort, and the state is best suited to promote consent and operate in the best interests of children. The state has a right to override lack of child and parental interest in such an autonomy-promoting education, since such an override lets children decide their values later in life, as adults, as opposed to never having that opportunity. Levinson contends that parents, on the other hand, must provide for the well-being, identity development, and \"cultural coherence\" sense of their children.\n\nAnother chapter compares how the American, English, and French educational systems foster private and public identities. She writes that the French public school system is best for its neutral secularity and disregard of \"parentally inspired discriminations\", which are not allowed to influence the common nature of the school. This is contrasted with the American public school system's trends of increased privatization and non-neutrality. American school voucher programs use public school money towards private schools, departing from the mission of the common public school and further compounding school inequality and ethnic segregation. Levinson concludes that parental choice limits capacity for autonomy and, consequently, individual liberty.\n\nIn his \"Philosophical Books\" review, Graham Haydon wrote that the book was part of a trend of political philosopher interest in how education works within liberal-democratic societies. He noted issues of compatibility between a society's self-described \"liberal\" values and the values of their educational practice, or between a society's educational practice and the wishes of its citizens. Haydon wrote critics of the common and detached public school would ask how the students would be raised without \"some cultural coherence\". Writing in 2001, he said that her criticism of England's civics education already appeared outdated in view of England's then-new National Curriculum citizenship curriculum, which he felt Levinson would find the \"best model ... consistent with her own argument\". He added that the \"radical pluralist\" societies used as examples do not accommodate citizens that hold other values over \"autonomy\", and do not answer how citizens can be convinced to believe in \"autonomy-promoting\" schools. Haydon considered her book \"an important contribution\" to liberal theory and wrote that \"it would be a loss to political philosophy\" if she continued her work as a schoolteacher in lieu of an academic career.\n\nKern Alexander of the \"Journal of Education Finance\" compared Levinson's view of parental and child rights to Michael Walzer's 1984 \"Spheres of Justice\", where he writes that children confined to parental teachings alone when without compulsory public schools. Alexander linked Walzer and Levinson's views on parental school choice as more about \"choosing 'schoolmates than schoolbooks'\", to the detriment of \"cultural cohesion\" and for reasons unrelated to educational quality. Alexander recommended the book for \"all public educators\" for its thoughts on the role of school privatization, homeschooling, and voucher programs.\n\nWriting for \"Studies in Philosophy and Education\", Doret de Ruyter approved of Levinson's emphasis on autonomy and concurred that Levinson's definition of autonomy would be agreeable to citizens of Western liberal countries. De Ruyter was unsure about edge cases of autonomy, such as whether being closed-minded to the prospect of a pierced belly button would make her a less autonomous person in Levinson's view. She also disagreed with Levinson's position of parental \"privilege\" (rather than right) over their children, and invoked Wesley Newcomb Hohfeld to argue that parents instead have the opposite of a privilege, a \"duty\", to their children's interests and require the liberty to fulfill it, including through education. To defend this parental duty to children and freedom from society in fulfillment of the duty, de Ruyter cited John Eekelaar's parental duty-right to educate children: a positive right to educate as they see fit and a negative right that prevents others from impeding. She concluded that the state's duty conflicts with the duty of parents and thus the state's duty is \"primarily ... against children\".\n\nDe Ruyter also disagreed that \"detached\" schools were the only means of inculcating capacity for autonomy, and argued for \"autonomy enhancing education\" over \"autonomy imposing education\". In her criticism, de Ruyter wrote that Levinson lacked critical distance from her idea of a \"detached\" school, which were presented in \"utopian character\", with no concrete examples of such a school in existence, and as inexplicably immune from \"capitalist-dominated education\". She added that \"detachment\" was vague in definition, that more important was detachment from absolutist or divisive stances of \"the good life\", and that curriculum and school management were better correlative factors towards liberal schools. De Ruyter concluded that \"autonomy imposing schools\" would be more harmful than respectful and \"autonomy-friendly ... reduced plural environments\", as a child would be better off in an imperfect pluralist than a homogenous fundamentalist classroom. Levinson responded to de Ruyter's points in a later issue of the journal.\n\nIn \"Educational Researcher\", Luis Mirón and Pradeep Dhillon wrote that theorists of education and liberal political philosophy could not \"afford to ignore\" the book. They wrote that the state would have to be \"benign\" and \"hermetically sealed\" from external influence for her theory to hold—that such a state would be weak against the interests of illiberal parties. They added that her evaluation of public education across several countries did not account for supranational influence and that she did not engage the potential issues endemic to integrating heteronymous illiberals. Additionally, they felt that the book lacked in its practical proposals for public school civics education, particularly in how a weak perfectionist, \"activist\" state can intervene on behalf of marginalized group interests in a public school setting.\n\nThe book was discussed in a group session at the American Philosophical Association's 2002 annual meeting. The panel, led by James Dwyer, included William Galston, Fran Schrag, Yuli Tamir, and a response from the author.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34335603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34335603", "title": "The Light of the East", "text": "The Light of the East\n\nThe Light of the East was a monthly review founded in 1922 at Calcutta by Georges Dandoy, SJ (1882-1962) and Pierre Johanns, SJ. Dandoy was the chief editor. The monthly ceased publication in 1934.\n\nDandoy and Johanns were young Jesuits, newly arrived in India, when they met Brahmachari Animananda, disciple of Brahmobandhav Upadhyay. Animananda encouraged them in their desire to begin a journal that would carry on the spirit of inquiry initiated by Upadhyay. P. Turmes reports that Animananda’s face brightened up when the two Jesuits laid before him the proposal for a journal that would present Christ to India in a way adapted to her mentality and culture.\n\nBoth Dandoy and Johanns contributed regularly to the review. Several of Johanns' contributions were later published in book form under the title \"To Christ to the Vedanta.\" Other contributors included members of the so-called Calcutta School of Indology.\n\nThe Indian Institute of the University of Oxford has an incomplete set. The Yale University Library has a complete set on microfilm.\n"}
{"id": "55275521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55275521", "title": "The Wine of Astonishment", "text": "The Wine of Astonishment\n\nThe Wine of Astonishment is a 1982 novel written by Trinidadian author Earl Lovelace. The story depicts the struggles of a Spiritual Baptist community from the passing of the Prohibition Ordinance to repealing of the ban, portraying a 20-year struggle from 1932 to 1951. Themes such as racism, women in society, religion, change, oppression, power and authority are featured throughout the book.\n\nThis story is narrated by Eva Dorcas. She and her husband, Bee Dorcas are a religious couple who are both members of the Spiritual Baptist Church in a small Trinidadian community known as Bonasse. They all share their experiences about being persecuted due to their direct affiliation with their religion. They also share how they were betrayed by someone to whom they entrusted their faith for a change. Trust became an issue for the fellow characters since Ivan Morton betrayed them when he entered into the political life and evacuated the house his father built on his own to live in a colonial home, located on top of the Bonasse hill, that was once occupied by an English family known as the Richardsons. The community praised Bolo for his masculinity in defending his fellow neighbours until he was taken to prison. After his release he was no longer the person he once was, of which the community now fear.\n\n\nShouter Baptists or Spiritual Baptists observe a combination of Christianity and African traditional practices. Conflict arose between the English government and citizens of Trinidad because Christianity has a direct link with English authorities and Shouter Baptist was a form of rivalry in the eyes of the colonial authorities, since Trinidad was still a colony under the British Empire. This conflict resulted in the passing of Shouter Prohibition Ordinance in 1917, portraying religious oppression.\n\nThe betrayal of Ivan Morton results in a dramatic change within the lives and faith of the community, emphasizing the toll that power and authority takes on someone's personality. Ivan Morton became the main disappointment when he decided not to support the Shouter Baptist religion and followed the colonizers' orders. Politics in this community is a depiction of the various characteristics of Caribbean political leadership. Members of the community connected their faith with their daily lives by reciting Bible verses throughout the novel depicting religion as a major theme.\n\nThe Shouter Baptist Church symbolizes unity and a form of identity. Members of the community adore the church and claim it is the foundation of their tradition, a connection with their ancestors who were slaves.\n"}
{"id": "36318258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36318258", "title": "Yehoshua Yakhot", "text": "Yehoshua Yakhot\n\nYehoshua Yakhot (Russian: Иегошуа Яхот/Овший Овшиевич Яхот) (born 2 March 1919 in Yaryshev, died 21 December 2003 in Tel Aviv) was a professor of philosophy in the Soviet Union. In 1975 he was forced to emigrate to Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2246470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2246470", "title": "Yi Eonjeok", "text": "Yi Eonjeok\n\nYi Eonjeok (1491–1553), sometimes known by his pen name Hoejae, was a public official and intellectual of the middle Joseon Dynasty of Korea. He was born and died in Gyeongju, then the capital of Gyeongsang province. Like most intellectuals from Gyeongsang in this period, he was a member of the Sarim faction. He contributed to the polarity-nonpolarity (\"mugeuk\"-\"taegeuk\") debate in classical Korean Confucianism.\n\nA scion of the Yeoju Yi clan, he passed the literary section of the gwageo in 1514 and entered government service. He was twice expelled from service and then re-hired due to factional strife. He was exiled after Fourth Literati Purge of 1545. He spent the intervening periods teaching on Jaok Mountain in Gyeongju. After his death, the Oksan Seowon was erected on Jaok Mountain to venerate his memory. It still stands today in Angang-eup, Gyeongju City, North Gyeongsang, South Korea.\n\nIt was excoriated in Uijeongbu YeonguI Pavilion in 1568 and was established in Jongmyo Shrine in 1569 (King Seonjo 2), and was engaged in Mungmyeong in 1610 (Gwanghagun 2). In addition, the ancestral tablets were enshrined in 17 Seowon schools across the country, including Oksan Seowon in Gyeongju. Yi's main work is titled \" Yi Eon-jeong's Old Baseon\", and is designated as Treasure No. 586. Other writings are kept at Dok-rak and Oksan Seowon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "558588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558588", "title": "Zhelyu Zhelev", "text": "Zhelyu Zhelev\n\nŽelju Mitev Želev (; 3 March 1935 – 30 January 2015) was a Bulgarian politician and former dissident who served as the first non-Communist President of Bulgaria from 1990 to 1997. A member of the Union of Democratic Forces, he was elected as President by the 7th Grand National Assembly, and was then elected directly by the people in Bulgarian presidential election, 1992 as the first democratically elected President of Bulgaria. He lost his party's nomination for his 1996 reelection campaign after losing a tough primary race to Petar Stoyanov.\n\nZhelyu Zhelev was born on 3 March 1935 in Veselinovo village, Shumen. He graduated with a degree in philosophy from the Sofia University \"St. Kliment Ohridski\" in 1958, and later earned a Ph.D. in 1974.\n\nZhelev was a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party, but was expelled from it for political reasons in 1965. He was unemployed for six years since all employment in Bulgaria was state-regulated.\n\nIn 1982, he published his controversial work, \"The Fascism\" (Фашизмът). Three weeks after the volume's publication in 1982, it was banned and removed from the bookstores and libraries throughout the nation, as it likened the Soviet style socialist state to the fascist states of Italy, Germany and Spain before, during, and after World War II.\n\nIn 1988, just before the Fall of Communism, Zhelev founded the Ruse Committee, and in 1989 he became a founding member and chairman of the Club for Support of Openness and the Reform (a time when many such democratic clubs were formed), which helped him to achieve the position of Chairman of the Coordinating Council of the Union of Democratic Forces (Bulgarian: СДС, SDS) party.\n\nZhelev was elected MP in June 1990 for the 7th Grand National Assembly; the Assembly's main goal was to create a new democratic Constitution of Bulgaria. After the resignation of President Petar Mladenov, the assembly elected Zhelev his successor on 1 August 1990. He thus became the first head of state in 44 years who was not either a Communist or fellow traveler.\n\nUnder the new constitution adopted in July 1991, the president was to be elected directly by voters, for a maximum of two terms. The first such election was held in January 1992. Zhelev won in the runoff against Velko Valkanov (who was endorsed by the Socialists) with 52.8% of the votes. He immediately suspended his membership in the UDF; the new constitution did not allow the president to be a formal member of a political party during his term.\n\nZhelev served his full five-year term, which ran until January 1997.\n\nZhelev lost the UDF nomination for the 1996 presidential race to Petar Stoyanov who went on to win the next presidential elections.\n\nAfter his defeat in the 1996 UDF primaries and after the end of his presidency in 1997, Zhelev remained in politics, but on a much smaller scale. He became Honorary Chair of the Liberal Democratic Union and Honorary Chair of the Liberal International and in 1997 went on to establish and preside over a foundation named after him. Zhelev was the initiator and president of the Balkan Political Club, a union of former political leaders from Southeast Europe. As part of the club he voiced his support for Turkey's accession to the European Union.\n\nIn 2009, Zhelev also voiced his opinion that Bulgaria should adopt a presidential system based upon the French model: \"The country should have both prime minister and president, but the latter should be vested in far-reaching powers so that he may control the executive power\".\n\nZhelev died in Sofia at the age of 79 on 30 January 2015.\n\nZhelyu Zhelev served as an Honorary Co-Chair for the World Justice Project (ABA).\n\nOn 15 January 2010, Zhelev received the Macedonian state Order 8-September for his contribution to the recognition of the independence of the Republic of Macedonia from the former Yugoslavia.\n\nZhelev Peak on Loubet Coast, Antarctica is named after Zhelyu Zhelev for his support for the Bulgarian Antarctic programme.\n\nHe was married to Maria Zheleva and has two daughters Yordanka (1963–1993) and Stanka (born 1966).\nZhelev has two grandchildren from his daughter Stanka.\n\n"}
