{"id": "9404290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9404290", "title": "Amchem Products Inc v British Columbia (Workers' Compensation Board)", "text": "Amchem Products Inc v British Columbia (Workers' Compensation Board)\n\nAmchem Products Inc v British Columbia (Workers' Compensation Board), [1993] 1 S.C.R. 897 is a leading decision on \"forum non conveniens\" by the Supreme Court of Canada. The Court overturned an anti-suit injunction issued by the British Columbia Supreme Court against the courts in Texas on the basis that the British Columbia (BC) court was not necessarily the better forum for the case.\n\nA number of BC residents began an action against several US manufacturers of asbestos in Texas. The Texas court accepted jurisdiction over the matter and heard the case. The manufacturers applied to the BC Supreme Court to issue an anti-suit injunction, arguing that the proper forum for the plaintiffs would be in BC and not Texas.\n\nThe BC Supreme Court issued the injunction. In response, Texas issued an \"anti-anti-suit injunction\". The BC Supreme Court judgment was upheld on appeal to the BC Court of Appeal.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada overturned the judgment and found that there was insufficient grounds to deny Texas jurisdiction.\n\nThe Court adopts the test for \"forum non conveniens\" from \"Spiliada Maritime Corp. v. Cansulex Ltd.\", [1987] A.C. 460\n\n"}
{"id": "18891679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18891679", "title": "Annals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade", "text": "Annals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade\n\nAnnals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade – Belgrade Law Review (Serbian: \"Анали Правног факултета у Београду – часопис за правне и друштвене науке\") is academic law journal published by the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law.\n\n\"Annals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade – Belgrade Law Review\" is the oldest Balkan academic law journal, having been founded in 1906 by the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law as \"Archive for Legal and Social Sciences\" (Serbian: \"Arhiv za pravne i društvene nauke\"). Since 1953 the journal appears as \"Annals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade\".\nIt is a peer-reviewed journal that utilizes an international body of editors, advisers and referees to select outstanding contributions. The journal solicits articles, contributions, case law and legislation comments, essays, debates, notes and book reviews on all aspects of law and social sciences, being interdisciplinary oriented. Special emphasis is placed on contemporary legal developments, but the journal's range includes jurisprudence and legal history. The journal serves as a forum for the expression of the legal ideas of foremost scholars, law professors, jurists, judges, practitioners, societal leaders and students.\n\nThis law review has been published continuously in Serbian with abstracts in foreign languages, offering contributions by the faculty and distinguished scholars from former Yugoslavia, Serbia and abroad. Since 2006, the law review has added one international edition annually and since 2015 it has been published also in electronic form (ISSN: 2406-2693).\n\n\"Annals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade\" is quarterly law journal (with three national issues and one international issue - No. 4) published at the end of March, June, September and December. Deadlines for submitting articles are: January 31 - for the first issue, April 30 - for the second issue, July 31 - for the third issue and October 31 - for the fourth (international) issue.\n\nEditor-in-chef is Mirko Vasiljević.\n\nYearly international issue (No. 4) in English is co-edited by Alan Watson. \nEditors-in-Chief have been the most prominent Serbian law professors and lawyers, such as Mihailo Konstantinović, Milan Bartoš, Vojislav Bakić, Vojislav Simović, Obren Stanković, Dejan Popović, Miodrag Orlić, Danilo Basta, Sima Avramović and Miroljub Labus.\n\nThe Editorial Board consists of faculty members of the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law, and the members of the International Editorial Board are some of the most eminent international experts in various legal disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "25411784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25411784", "title": "Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Baxter Healthcare Pty Ltd", "text": "Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Baxter Healthcare Pty Ltd\n\nAustralian Competition and Consumer Commission v Baxter Healthcare Pty Ltd, (\"Baxter\") was a decision of the High Court of Australia, which ruled on 29 August 2007 that Baxter Healthcare Proprietary Limited, a tenderer for various government contracts, was bound by the \"Trade Practices Act 1974\" (TPA, Australian legislation governing anti-competitive behaviour) in its trade and commerce in tendering for government contracts. More generally, the case concerned the principles of derivative governmental immunity: whether the immunity of a government from a statute extends to third parties that conduct business with the government.\n\nThe High Court's judgment marked a successful appeal for the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, the Australian regulator of anti-competitive conduct, having lost at first instance and on appeal in the Federal Court of Australia. The ACCC was again successful when the case was remitted to the Federal Court for reconsideration, ending eight years of litigation between the parties. The High Court's judgment was received as a significant precedent in the law of derivative governmental immunity in Australia.\n\nBaxter Healthcare Proprietary Limited (Baxter), was the Australian subsidiary of the multinational health care company Baxter International. Baxter manufactured intravenous (IV) and peritoneal dialysis (PD) fluids at various plants in Australia. Because of the cost of importing sterile IV fluids and the absence of a rival domestic producer, Baxter was a monopoly supplier of sterile IV fluids in the Australian market. Its monopoly covered large volume parenteral fluids, irrigating solutions and parenteral nutrition fluids. However, Baxter faced competition in the market for peritoneal dialysis fluids (PD fluids).\n\nA number of state governments issued requests for tender for the supply of sterile fluids and PD fluids. Baxter responded to the requests with tenders that put forward two alternative pricing options: either a state could purchase sterile fluids and PD fluids as a bundled package at a discounted rate, or the state could buy each product separately but at a higher rate.\n\nSection 46 of the TPA prohibited corporations from misusing market power. Section 47 prohibited exclusive dealing. The critical provision to the case was Section 2B of the TPA. Section 2B provided that Sections 46 and 47 of the TPA:\n\n... bind the Crown in right of each of the States, of the Northern Territory and of the Australian Capital Territory, so far as the Crown carries on a business, either directly or by an authority of the State or Territory ...\n\nSection 2B thus provided an immunity from state and territory governments from Sections 46 and 47 of the TPA insofar as the governments were not carrying on a business.\n\nThe Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), the Australian government authority responsible for regulating the TPA, commenced an action in the Federal Court of Australia seeking declarations that Baxter's bundling pricing structure in its tenders had contravened Sections 46 and 47 of the TPA. The ACCC sought the imposition of injunctions and pecuniary penalties by the court.\n\nDerivative governmental immunity refers to the extension of a government's immunity from a statute to a non-government party on the basis the government would be affected if the statute was to apply to the other party.\n\nPrior to \"Baxter\", the leading case on derivative governmental immunity in Australia was the 1979 High Court judgment in \"Bradken Consolidated Ltd v Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd\". In \"Bradken\", the High Court upheld a claim for derivative governmental immunity by equipment suppliers to the Queensland Commissioner for Railways. The majority's conclusion was that if the Queensland government was immune from the TPA, it would prejudice the Queensland government if the contracts and arrangements it entered were subject to the TPA through the other parties to the contracts and arrangements.\n\n\"Bradken\"'s application of the principle of derivative governmental immunity had been subject to criticism. Robertson Wright SC, a Senior Counsel specialising in competition and trade practices law, argued there are \"a number of difficulties\" with the judgment, including the \"unsatisfactory nature\" of the authorities it relied on. The High Court's judgment in \"Baxter\" would mark a retreat from \"Bradken\".\n\nThe ACCC conceded that the state governments were not carrying on businesses in procuring the medical products. This meant that the governments were immune from Sections 46 and 47 of the TPA. Baxter argued that this immunity extended to itself, by claiming derivative governmental immunity. On 16 May 2005, The Federal Court of Australia (Allsop J presiding) found in Baxter's favour at first instance. While the court held that Baxter would have breached the TPA, governmental immunity under Section 2B extended to Baxter Healthcare. Allsop J's judgment was upheld unanimously on appeal to the full bench of the Federal Court (Justices Mansfield, Dowsett and Gyles presiding). The full bench expressed unease about its own judgment, stating that the question of derivative governmental immunity should be left to the High Court for reconsideration of \"Bradken\".\n\nThe ACCC was granted special leave to appeal to the High Court against the judgment of the full bench of the Federal Court. The appeal was heard on 16 May 2007. The Australian Government Solicitor acted for the ACCC, with Lindsay Foster as Senior Counsel; Blake Dawson and David Yates SC represented Baxter. In addition to Baxter, the states of Western Australia, South Australia and New South Wales were respondents to the appeal. The High Court decided on 29 August 2007, by a 6–1 majority, to allow the ACCC's appeal and remit the matter back to the full bench of Federal Court for reconsideration. The majority held that Baxter was not covered by derivative governmental immunity in its dealings with the state governments.\n\nFive judges (Chief Justice Gleeson and Justices Gummow, Hayne, Heydon and Crennan) joined in the leading majority judgment allowing the ACCC's appeal. The joint judgment reasoned that Parliament could not have intended for corporations that do business with the government to be exempt from the restrictive trade practices provisions in Part IV of the TPA in respect of that business. Emphasising the overall purpose of the TPA, the judges reasoned that the purpose would not be fulfilled if Baxter could claim derivative immunity. In response to the concern that one party to a transaction (the government) would be immune from the TPA while the other party would be bound by it, the joint judgment reasoned there was \"nothing unusual\" about such an outcome.\n\nThe joint judgment did not rule out derivative governmental immunity in all cases. In determining the scope of whether governmental immunity from a statutory provision extends to a party dealing with the government, the judgment adopted the following position of Justice Kitto, then dissenting, in the 1955 High Court case of \"Wynyard Investments v Commissioner for Railways (NSW)\":\n\nThe object in view is to ascertain whether the Crown has such an interest in that which would be interfered with if the provision in question were held to bind the corporation that the interference would be, for a legal reason, an interference with some right, interest, power, authority, privilege, immunity or purpose belonging or appertaining to the Crown.\n\n\"Wynyard Investments\" was a case about governmental immunity generally (not derivative governmental immunity specifically), but Justice Kitto's dissenting judgment extended to derivative governmental immunity.\n\nHaving examined the characteristics of the TPA as a law to promote competitive behaviour, the joint judgment held that the extension of derivative governmental immunity from the TPA to a trading corporation would be a \"remarkable\" conclusion and \"far beyond what is necessary to protect the legal rights of governments, or to prevent a divesting of proprietary, contractual or other legal rights and interests.\"\n\nJustice Kirby's judgment agreed with the outcome of the joint judgment, for different reasons. Kirby criticised the concept of governmental immunity itself, stating that \"persisting with [governmental immunity] into the twenty-first century is unacceptable.\"\n\nJustice Callinan dissented from the majority, holding that derivative governmental immunity extended to Baxter. Callinan followed \"Bradken\", concluding that it remained authoritative.\n\nRobertson Wright, writing after the judgment was handed down, claimed that \"Baxter\" represented a change to the law, drawing the following conclusions from the judgment:\n\nThe judgment was reported in the press as a significant legal victory for the ACCC. The judgment was also received as an \"historic decision\" setting a precedent for government procurement, on the basis that businesses might no longer be able to rely on immunity from the TPA when contracting with governments.\n\nNicholas Seddon, a lawyer and academic specialising in commercial and government law, claimed the High Court's judgment leaves \"many uncertainties\", particularly regarding whether derivative governmental immunity will extend to private sector providers carrying out governmental functions that have been contracted to them (as opposed to merely providing goods or services to the government). Robertson Wright echoed these concerns, arguing the joint judgment did not \"set out in as helpful detail\" as it might the factors to be taken into account in deciding whether governmental immunity will derive to a party dealing with the government. Seddon also criticised the outcome of the case itself, arguing it is \"difficult to see how derivative immunity does not inevitably flow\" from the governmental immunity from the TPA. He suggested that the application of the TPA to a party that deals with a government compromises the intention of Parliament that State and Territory governments should be immune from the TPA.\n\nThe ACCC was successful, by a 2–1 majority, upon the remittal of the case to the full bench of the Federal Court. The full bench found that Baxter contravened Sections 46 and 47 of the TPA. That judgment ended the eight-year-long litigation between Baxter and the ACCC. It was the first time in over 10 years that a corporation had unsuccessfully defended a prosecution brought by the ACCC for an alleged contravention of Section 46. The full bench declared that Baxter breached Sections 46 and 47 of the TPA, but left it to the ACCC to seek pecuniary penalties. Baxter was refused special leave to appeal to the High Court against the full bench's judgment.\n\n"}
{"id": "224387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224387", "title": "Breach of contract", "text": "Breach of contract\n\nBreach of contract is a legal cause of action and a type of civil wrong, in which a binding agreement or bargained-for exchange is not honored by one or more of the parties to the contract by non-performance or interference with the other party's performance. Breach occurs when a party to a contract fails to fulfill his or her obligation as described in the contract, or communicates an intent to fail the obligation or otherwise appears not to be able to perform his or her obligation under the contract.\n\nIn a \"minor\" breach (a partial breach or immaterial breach or where there has been substantial performance), the non-breaching party cannot sue for specific performance, and can only sue for actual damages.\n\nSuppose a homeowner hires a contractor to install new plumbing and insists that the pipes, which will ultimately be hidden behind the walls, must be red. The contractor instead uses blue pipes that function just as well. Although the contractor breached the literal terms of the contract, the homeowner cannot ask a court to order the contractor to replace the blue pipes with red pipes. The homeowner can only recover the amount of his or her actual damages. In this instance, this is the difference in value between red pipe and blue pipe. Since the color of a pipe does not affect its function, the difference in value is zero. Therefore, no damages have been incurred and the homeowner would receive nothing (see \"Jacob & Youngs v. Kent\".)\n\nHowever, had the pipe colour been specified in the agreement as a \"condition\", a breach of that condition would constitute a \"major\" breach. For example, when a contract specifies time is of the essence and one party to the contract fails to meet a contractual obligation in a timely fashion, the other party could sue for damages for a major breach.\n\nA \"material breach\" is any failure to perform that permits the other party to the contract to either compel performance, or collect damages because of the breach. A breach of contract will constitute a material breach if the term of the contract that has been breached is a condition. A term is a condition if it satisfies the test of essentiality. The test of essentiality requires that the promise (term) was of such importance to the promisee that he or she would not have entered into the contract unless he had been assured of strict or substantial performance of the promise and this ought to have been apparent to the promisor. This is an objective test of the parties' intention at the time of formation of the contract. \n\nIf the contractor in the above example had been instructed to use copper pipes, and instead used iron pipes that would not last as long as the copper pipes would have lasted, the homeowner can recover the cost of actually correcting the breach – taking out the iron pipes and replacing them with copper pipes.\n\nThere are exceptions to this. Legal scholars and courts often state that the owner of a house whose pipes are not the specified grade or quality (a typical hypothetical example) cannot recover the cost of replacing the pipes for the following reasons:\n\n\nMost homeowners would be unable to collect damages that compensate them for replacing the pipes, but rather would be awarded damages that compensate them for the \"loss of value\" in the house. For example, say the house is worth $125,000 with copper and $120,000 with iron pipes. The homeowner would be able to collect the $5,000 difference, and nothing more.\nIn the United States, the Restatement (Second) of Contracts lists the following criteria to determine whether a specific failure constitutes a material breach:\n\nA \"fundamental breach\" (or \"repudiatory breach\") is a breach so fundamental that it permits the aggrieved party to terminate performance of the contract. In addition, that party is entitled to sue for damages.\n\nA \"breach by anticipatory repudiation\" (or simply \"anticipatory breach\") is an unequivocal indication that the party will not perform when performance is due, or a situation in which future non-performance is inevitable. An anticipatory breach gives the non-breaching party the option to treat such a breach as immediate, and, if repudiatory, to terminate the contract and sue for damages (without waiting for the breach to actually take place).\n\nFor example, A contracts with B on January 1 to sell 500 quintals of wheat and to deliver it on May 1. Subsequently, on April 15, A writes to B and says that he will not deliver the wheat. B may immediately consider the breach to have occurred and file a suit for damages for the scheduled performance, even though A has until May 1 to perform. However, a unique feature of anticipatory breach is that if an aggrieved party chooses not to accept a repudiation occurring before the time set for performance, not only will the contract continue on foot, but also there will be no right to damages unless and until an actual breach occurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "7144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7144", "title": "Content-control software", "text": "Content-control software\n\nContent-control software, commonly referred to as an internet filter, is software that restricts or controls the content an Internet user is capable to access, especially when utilised to restrict material delivered over the Internet via the Web, e-mail, or other means. Content-control software determines what content will be available or be blocked.\n\nSuch restrictions can be applied at various levels: a government can attempt to apply them nationwide (see Internet censorship), or they can, for example, be applied by an ISP to its clients, by an employer to its personnel, by a school to its students, by a library to its visitors, by a parent to a child's computer, or by an individual user to their own computer.\n\nThe motive is often to prevent access to content which the computer's owner(s) or other authorities may consider objectionable. When imposed without the consent of the user, content control can be characterised as a form of internet censorship. Some content-control software includes time control functions that empowers parents to set the amount of time that child may spend accessing the Internet or playing games or other computer activities.\n\nIn some countries, such software is ubiquitous. In Cuba, if a computer user at a government-controlled Internet cafe types certain words, the word processor or browser is automatically closed, and a \"state security\" warning is given.\n\nThe term \"content control\" is used on occasion by CNN, \"Playboy\" magazine, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", and \"The New York Times\". However, several other terms, including \"content filtering software\", \"secure web gateways\", \"censorware\", \"content security and control\", \"web filtering software\", \"content-censoring software\", and \"content-blocking software\", are often used. \"Nannyware\" has also been used in both product marketing and by the media. Industry research company Gartner uses \"secure web gateway\" (SWG) to describe the market segment.\n\nCompanies that make products that selectively block Web sites do not refer to these products as censorware, and prefer terms such as \"Internet filter\" or \"URL Filter\"; in the specialized case of software specifically designed to allow parents to monitor and restrict the access of their children, \"parental control software\" is also used. Some products log all sites that a user accesses and rates them based on content type for reporting to an \"accountability partner\" of the person's choosing, and the term accountability software is used. Internet filters, parental control software, and/or accountability software may also be combined into one product.\n\nThose critical of such software, however, use the term \"censorware\" freely: consider the Censorware Project, for example. The use of the term \"censorware\" in editorials criticizing makers of such software is widespread and covers many different varieties and applications: Xeni Jardin used the term in a 9 March 2006 editorial in \"The New York Times\" when discussing the use of American-made filtering software to suppress content in China; in the same month a high school student used the term to discuss the deployment of such software in his school district.\n\nIn general, outside of editorial pages as described above, traditional newspapers do not use the term \"censorware\" in their reporting, preferring instead to use less overtly controversial terms such as \"content filter\", \"content control\", or \"web filtering\"; \"The New York Times\" and the \"Wall Street Journal\" both appear to follow this practice. On the other hand, Web-based newspapers such as CNET use the term in both editorial and journalistic contexts, for example \"Windows Live to Get Censorware.\"\n\nFilters can be implemented in many different ways: by software on a personal computer, via network infrastructure such as proxy servers, DNS servers, or firewalls that provide Internet access. No solution provides complete coverage, so most companies deploy a mix of technologies to achieve the proper content control inline with their policies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInternet service providers (ISPs) that block material containing pornography, or controversial religious, political, or news-related content en route are often utilized by parents who do not permit their children to access content not conforming to their personal beliefs. Content filtering software can, however, also be used to block malware and other content that is or contains hostile, intrusive, or annoying material including adware, spam, computer viruses, worms, trojan horses, and spyware.\n\nMost content control software is marketed to organizations or parents. It is, however, also marketed on occasion to facilitate self-censorship, for example by people struggling with addictions to online pornography, gambling, chat rooms, etc. Self-censorship software may also be utilised by some in order to avoid viewing content they consider immoral, inappropriate, or simply distracting. A number of accountability software products are marketed as \"self-censorship\" or \"accountability software\". These are often promoted by religious media and at religious gatherings.\n\nUtilising a filter that is overly zealous at filtering content, or mislabels content not intended to be censored can result in over blocking, or over-censoring. Over blocking can filter out material that should be acceptable under the filtering policy in effect, for example health related information may unintentionally be filtered along with porn-related material because of the Scunthorpe problem. Filter administrators may prefer to err on the side of caution by accepting over blocking to prevent any risk of access to sites that they determine to be undesirable. Content-control software was mentioned as blocking access to Beaver College before its name change to Arcadia University. Another example was the filtering of Horniman Museum. As well, over-blocking may encourage users to bypass the filter entirely.\n\nWhenever new information is uploaded to the Internet, filters can under block, or under-censor, content if the parties responsible for maintaining the filters do not update them quickly and accurately, and a blacklisting rather than a whitelisting filtering policy is in place.\n\nMany would disapprove of government filtering viewpoints on moral or political issues, agreeing that this could become support for propaganda. Many would also find it unacceptable that an ISP, whether by law or by the ISP's own choice, should deploy such software without allowing the users to disable the filtering for their own connections. In the United States, the First Amendment to the United States Constitution has been cited in calls to criminalise forced internet censorship. (See section below)\n\nWithout adequate governmental supervision, content-filtering software could enable private companies to censor as they please. (See Religious or political censorship, below). Government utilisation or encouragement of content-control software is a component of Internet Censorship (not to be confused with Internet Surveillance, in which content is monitored and not necessarily restricted). The governments of countries such as the People's Republic of China, and Cuba are current examples of countries in which this ethically controversial activity is alleged to have taken place.\n\nIn 1998, a United States federal district court in Virginia ruled (Loudoun v. Board of Trustees of the Loudoun County Library) that the imposition of mandatory filtering in a public library violates the First Amendment.\n\nIn 1996 the US Congress passed the Communications Decency Act, banning indecency on the Internet. Civil liberties groups challenged the law under the First Amendment, and in 1997 the Supreme Court ruled in their favor. Part of the civil liberties argument, especially from groups like the Electronic Frontier Foundation, was that parents who wanted to block sites could use their own content-filtering software, making government involvement unnecessary.\n\nIn the late 1990s, groups such as the Censorware Project began reverse-engineering the content-control software and decrypting the blacklists to determine what kind of sites the software blocked. This led to legal action alleging violation of the \"Cyber Patrol\" license agreement. They discovered that such tools routinely blocked unobjectionable sites while also failing to block intended targets. (See Over-zealous filtering, below).\n\nSome content-control software companies responded by claiming that their filtering criteria were backed by intensive manual checking. The companies' opponents argued, on the other hand, that performing the necessary checking would require resources greater than the companies possessed and that therefore their claims were not valid.\n\nThe Motion Picture Association successfully obtained a UK ruling enforcing ISPs to use content-control software to prevent copyright infringement by their subscribers.\n\nMany types of content-control software have been shown to block sites based on the religious and political leanings of the company owners. Examples include blocking several religious sites (including the Web site of the Vatican), many political sites, and homosexuality-related sites. \"X-Stop\" was shown to block sites such as the Quaker web site, the National Journal of Sexual Orientation Law, The Heritage Foundation, and parts of The Ethical Spectacle. CYBERsitter blocks out sites like National Organization for Women. Nancy Willard, an academic researcher and attorney, pointed out that many U.S. public schools and libraries use the same filtering software that many Christian organizations use. Cyber Patrol, a product developed by The Anti-Defamation League and Mattel's The Learning Company, has been found to block not only political sites it deems to be engaging in 'hate speech' but also human rights web sites, such as Amnesty International's web page about Israel and gay-rights web sites, such as glaad.org.\n\nContent labeling may be considered another form of content-control software. In 1994, the Internet Content Rating Association (ICRA) — now part of the Family Online Safety Institute — developed a content rating system for online content providers. Using an online questionnaire a webmaster describes the nature of their web content. A small file is generated that contains a condensed, computer readable digest of this description that can then be used by content filtering software to block or allow that site.\n\nICRA labels come in a variety of formats. These include the World Wide Web Consortium's Resource Description Framework (RDF) as well as Platform for Internet Content Selection (PICS) labels used by Microsoft's Internet Explorer Content Advisor.\n\nICRA labels are an example of self-labeling. Similarly, in 2006 the Association of Sites Advocating Child Protection (ASACP) initiated the Restricted to Adults self-labeling initiative. ASACP members were concerned that various forms of legislation being proposed in the United States were going to have the effect of forcing adult companies to label their content. The RTA label, unlike ICRA labels, does not require a webmaster to fill out a questionnaire or sign up to use. Like ICRA the RTA label is free. Both labels are recognized by a wide variety of content-control software.\n\nThe Voluntary Content Rating (VCR) system was devised by Solid Oak Software for their CYBERsitter filtering software, as an alternative to the PICS system, which some critics deemed too complex. It employs HTML metadata tags embedded within web page documents to specify the type of content contained in the document. Only two levels are specified, \"mature\" and \"adult\", making the specification extremely simple.\n\nThe use of Internet filters or content-control software varies widely in public libraries in the United States, since Internet use policies are established by the local library board. Many libraries adopted Internet filters after Congress conditioned the receipt of universal service discounts on the use of Internet filters through the Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA). Other libraries do not install content control software, believing that acceptable use policies and educational efforts address the issue of children accessing age-inappropriate content while preserving adult users' right to freely access information. Some libraries use Internet filters on computers used by children only. Some libraries that employ content-control software allow the software to be deactivated on a case-by-case basis on application to a librarian; libraries that are subject to CIPA are required to have a policy that allows adults to request that the filter be disabled without having to explain the reason for their request.\n\nMany legal scholars believe that a number of legal cases, in particular \"Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union\", established that the use of content-control software in libraries is a violation of the First Amendment. The Children's Internet Protection Act [CIPA] and the June 2003 case \"United States v. American Library Association\" found CIPA constitutional as a condition placed on the receipt of federal funding, stating that First Amendment concerns were dispelled by the law's provision that allowed adult library users to have the filtering software disabled, without having to explain the reasons for their request. The plurality decision left open a future \"as-applied\" Constitutional challenge, however.\n\nIn November 2006, a lawsuit was filed against the North Central Regional Library District (NCRL) in Washington State for its policy of refusing to disable restrictions upon requests of adult patrons, but CIPA was not challenged in that matter. In May 2010, the Washington State Supreme Court provided an opinion after it was asked to certify a question referred by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington: “Whether a public library, consistent with Article I, § 5 of the Washington Constitution, may filter Internet access for all patrons without disabling Web sites containing constitutionally-protected speech upon the request of an adult library patron.” The Washington State Supreme Court ruled that NCRL’s internet filtering policy did not violate Article I, Section 5 of the Washington State Constitution. The Court said: “It appears to us that NCRL’s filtering policy is reasonable and accords with its mission and these policies and is viewpoint neutral. It appears that no article I, section 5 content-based violation exists in this case. NCRL’s essential mission is to promote reading and lifelong learning. As NCRL maintains, it is reasonable to impose restrictions on Internet access in order to maintain an environment that is conducive to study and contemplative thought.” The case returned to federal court.\n\nIn March 2007, Virginia passed a law similar to CIPA that requires public libraries receiving state funds to use content-control software. Like CIPA, the law requires libraries to disable filters for an adult library user when requested to do so by the user.\n\nThe Australian Internet Safety Advisory Body has information about \"practical advice on Internet safety, parental control and filters for the protection of children, students and families\" that also includes public libraries.\n\nNetAlert, the software made available free of charge by the Australian government, was allegedly cracked by a 16-year-old student, Tom Wood, less than a week after its release in August 2007. Wood supposedly bypassed the $84 million filter in about half an hour to highlight problems with the government's approach to Internet content filtering.\n\nThe Australian Government has introduced legislation that requires ISP's to \"restrict access to age restricted content (commercial MA15+ content and R18+ content) either hosted in Australia or provided from Australia\" that was due to commence from 20 January 2008, known as Cleanfeed.\n\nCleanfeed is a proposed mandatory ISP level content filtration system. It was proposed by the Beazley led Australian Labor Party opposition in a 2006 press release, with the intention of protecting children who were vulnerable due to claimed parental computer illiteracy. It was announced on 31 December 2007 as a policy to be implemented by the Rudd ALP government, and initial tests in Tasmania have produced a 2008 report. Cleanfeed is funded in the current budget, and is moving towards an Expression of Interest for live testing with ISPs in 2008. Public opposition and criticism have emerged, led by the EFA and gaining irregular mainstream media attention, with a majority of Australians reportedly \"strongly against\" its implementation. Criticisms include its expense, inaccuracy (it will be impossible to ensure only illegal sites are blocked) and the fact that it will be compulsory, which can be seen as an intrusion on free speech rights. Another major criticism point has been that although the filter is claimed to stop certain materials, the underground rings dealing in such materials will not be affected. The filter might also provide a false sense of security for parents, who might supervise children less while using the Internet, achieving the exact opposite effect. Cleanfeed is a responsibility of Senator Conroy's portfolio.\n\nIn Denmark it is stated policy that it will \"prevent inappropriate Internet sites from being accessed from children's libraries across Denmark.\" \"'It is important that every library in the country has the opportunity to protect children against pornographic material when they are using library computers. It is a main priority for me as Culture Minister to make sure children can surf the net safely at libraries,' states Brian Mikkelsen in a press-release of the Danish Ministry of Culture.\"\n\nContent filtering in general can \"be bypassed entirely by tech-savvy individuals.\" Blocking content on a device \"[will not]...guarantee that users won't eventually be able to find a way around the filter.\"\n\nSome software may be bypassed successfully by using alternative protocols such as FTP or telnet or HTTPS, conducting searches in a different language, using a proxy server or a circumventor such as Psiphon. Also cached web pages returned by Google or other searches could bypass some controls as well. Web syndication services may provide alternate paths for content. Some of the more poorly designed programs can be shut down by killing their processes: for example, in Microsoft Windows through the Windows Task Manager, or in Mac OS X using Force Quit or Activity Monitor. Numerous workarounds and counters to workarounds from content-control software creators exist.\nGoogle services are often blocked by filters, but these may most often be bypassed by using \"https://\" in place of \"http://\" since content filtering software is not able to interpret content under secure connections (in this case SSL).\n\nMany content filters have an option which allows authorized people to bypass the content filter. This is especially useful in environments where the computer is being supervised and the content filter is aggressively blocking Web sites that need to be accessed.\n\nAn encrypted VPN can be used as means of bypassing content control software, especially if the content control software is installed on an Internet gateway or firewall.\n\nThere many other ways in which to bypass a content control filter that include translation sites, establishing a remote connection with another computer that has no content control filter on it and altering the proxy settings of the browser. \n\nSometimes, an antivirus software with web protection may stop the content-control filter.\n\nSome ISPs offer parental control options. Some offer security software which includes parental controls. Mac OS X v10.4 offers parental controls for several applications (Mail, Finder, iChat, Safari & Dictionary). Microsoft's Windows Vista operating system also includes content-control software.\n\nContent filtering technology exists in two major forms: application gateway or packet inspection. For HTTP access the application gateway is called a web-proxy or just a proxy. Such web-proxies can inspect both the initial request and the returned web page using arbitrarily complex rules and will not return any part of the page to the requester until a decision is made. In addition they can make substitutions in whole or for any part of the returned result. Packet inspection filters do not initially interfere with the connection to the server but inspect the data in the connection as it goes past, at some point the filter may decide that the connection is to be filtered and it will then disconnect it by injecting a TCP-Reset or similar faked packet. The two techniques can be used together with the packet filter monitoring a link until it sees an HTTP connection starting to an IP address that has content that needs filtering. The packet filter then redirects the connection to the web-proxy which can perform detailed filtering on the website without having to pass through all unfiltered connections. This combination is quite popular because it can significantly reduce the cost of the system.\n\nGateway-based content control software may be more difficult to bypass than desktop software as the user does not have physical access to the filtering device. However, many of the techniques in the Bypassing filters section still work.\n\n"}
{"id": "1694749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694749", "title": "Curveball (informant)", "text": "Curveball (informant)\n\nRafid Ahmed Alwan al-Janabi (, ; born 1968), known by the Defense Intelligence Agency cryptonym \"Curveball\", is a German citizen who defected from Iraq in 1999, claiming that he had worked as a chemical engineer at a plant that manufactured mobile biological weapon laboratories as part of an Iraqi weapons of mass destruction program. Alwan's allegations were subsequently shown to be false by the Iraq Survey Group's final report published in 2004.\n\nDespite warnings from the German Federal Intelligence Service and the British Secret Intelligence Service questioning the authenticity of the claims, the US Government and British government utilized them to build a rationale for military action in the lead up to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, including in the 2003 State of the Union address, where President Bush said \"we know that Iraq, in the late 1990s, had several mobile biological weapons labs\", and Colin Powell's presentation to the UN Security Council, which contained a computer generated image of a \"mobile biological weapons laboratory\". They were later found to be mobile milk pasteurization and hydrogen generation trailers. On 24 September 2002, the British government published its dossier on the former Iraqi leader's WMD with a personal foreword by Blair, who assured readers Saddam Hussein had continued to produce WMD \"beyond doubt\".\n\nOn November 4, 2007, \"60 Minutes\" revealed Curveball's real identity. Former CIA official Tyler Drumheller summed up Curveball as \"a guy trying to get his green card essentially, in Germany, and playing the system for what it was worth.\" He lives in Germany, where he has been granted asylum.\n\nIn a February 2011 interview with the \"Guardian\" he \"admitted for the first time that he lied about his story, then watched in shock as it was used to justify the war.\"\n\nRafid Ahmed Alwan studied chemical engineering in university but received low marks. He also worked at the Babel television production company in Baghdad, which was owned by Saddam Hussein's son Uday; sometime after leaving his job, a warrant was issued for his arrest because of theft from the same company.\n\nCurveball's story began in November 1999 when Alwan, then in his early 30s, arrived at Munich's Franz Josef Strauss Airport with a tourist visa. Upon entering the country he applied for political asylum because he had embezzled Iraqi government money and faced prison or worse if sent home. The German refugee system sent him to Zirndorf, a refugee center near Nuremberg.\n\nAfter he arrived at the refugee center he changed his story. Alwan's new story included that after he had graduated at the top of his chemical engineering class at Baghdad University in 1994, he worked for \"Dr. Germ,\" British-trained microbiologist Rihab Rashid Taha to lead a team that built mobile labs to produce lethal biological WMD.\n\nThe Germans listened to his claims and debriefed him starting in December 1999, continuing to September 2001. Although the Americans did not have \"direct access\" to Curveball, information collected by the BND debriefing team was later passed on in part to the Defense Intelligence Agency in the United States. As an incentive to keep supplying information to German intelligence, Curveball had been granted asylum, as he had applied earlier in 1999 and failed. He had enough money that he did not have to work. He gave many hours of testimony about Iraq's WMD program and in particular its mobile weapons laboratories. Despite CIA technicians and weapon experts finding major flaws and inconsistencies with the designs and systems he asserted the military was developing, this information made it to the American government and although there were wide doubts and questions about the claimed informant's reliability and background, assertions attributed to Curveball claiming that Iraq was creating biological agents in mobile weapons laboratories to elude inspectors appeared in more than 112 United States government reports between January 2000 and September 2001. His assertions eventually made it into United States Secretary of State Colin Powell's address on February 5, 2003 to the United Nations detailing Iraq's weapons programs.\n\nAccording to a Danish state TV documentary, DR1 Dokumentaren \"Manden som løj verden i krig\" broadcast April 21, 2010, Curveball is still living in Germany under strong protection of the German police. Danish TV filmed Rafid on the streets and recorded clips of conversation with him, before he surreptitiously called the police and had the TV-crew banned from his neighbourhood.\n\nIn 2003, inspectors led by David Kay conducted additional investigation of Curveball's credibility. They found among other things that he had been placed last in his university class when he had claimed to have been placed first, and that he had been jailed for embezzlement before fleeing to Germany.\n\nIn response to public criticism, U.S. president Bush initiated an investigative commission who released their report on March 31, 2005. Bush's investigative commission came to many conclusions including:\n\nThe Bush administration laid blame on the CIA, criticizing its officials for \"failing to investigate\" doubts about Curveball, which emerged after an October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate. In May 2004, over a year after the invasion of Iraq, the CIA concluded formally that Curveball's information was fabricated. Furthermore, on June 26, 2006, \"The Washington Post\" reported that \"the CIA acknowledged that Curveball was a con artist who drove a taxi in Iraq and spun his engineering knowledge into a fantastic but plausible tale about secret bioweapons factories on wheels.\"\n\nOn April 8, 2005, CIA Director Porter Goss ordered an internal review of the CIA in order to determine why doubts about Curveball's reliability were not forwarded to policy makers. Former CIA Director George Tenet and his former deputy, John E. McLaughlin, announced that they were not aware of doubts about Curveball's veracity before the war. However, Tyler Drumheller, the former chief of the CIA's European division, told the \"Los Angeles Times\" that \"everyone in the chain of command knew exactly what was happening.\"\n\nIn February 2011, Rafid Ahmed Alwan al-Janabi admitted for the first time that he lied about his story regarding Iraq's secret biological weapons program. He also admitted to being shocked that his false story was used as a justification for the Iraq War but proud that the fabrications helped topple Saddam Hussein.\n\nAccording to the Danish \"The Man Who Lied the World Into War\" film (2010/2011 update, basing on sources) after he was found by the document makers and they put questions to the chief security and spy services of his new home country, he lost his \"work\" (in a company found and described by the document makers as a cover with his position of \"marketing specialist\") and \"salary with flat\". Then, when he had to get back to the social one-room flat with social security help-salary, he phoned the documentary staff proposing an interview for the €40,000 (before the UK newspaper article). He also showed papers which, according to him, clearly proved that a contract between him and this \"cover company\" had been signed for the 15 years, starting in the 1999/2000, with a relatively high monthly salary of €3,000.\n\nAllegedly because the Iraqi informant disliked Americans, Germany's intelligence service (BND) classified him as a \"blue\" source, meaning the Germans would not permit U.S. access to him (red sources were allowed American contact). Later evidence indicated that he was in fact pro-American, and that the Germans were guarding their source. The Germans did pass on information to the American intelligence agencies and the informant was given the codename \"Curveball\". Despite it being an American term, the Americans deny coining the name, and its origin is uncertain. The base cryptonym \"ball\" had been used during the Cold War when dealing with informants who had intelligence about weapons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24931953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24931953", "title": "Declaration of Human Duties and Responsibilities", "text": "Declaration of Human Duties and Responsibilities\n\nThe Declaration of Human Duties and Responsibilities (DHDR) was written for reinforcing the implementation of human rights under the auspices of the UNESCO and the interest of the UN High Commissioner of Human Rights and was proclaimed in 1998 \"to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights\"(UDHR) in the city of Valencia. Therefore, it is also known as the Valencia Declaration.\n\nConsidering that the major challenge for this new century is the effective and efficient realisation of human rights for all people, and that at the same time is needed that all members of the human family strive for its fulfilment, the DHDR formulates related duties and responsibilities for our current interdependence. Its preamble states categorically: The effective enjoyment and implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms is inextricably linked to the assumption of the duties and responsibilities implicit in those rights...\n\nAfter fifty years of the adoption of the UDHR and following human rights instruments, the point of departure of the DHDR Preamble is the shared concern regarding the lack of political will for enforcing globally human rights. Moreover, the DHDR takes into account the new challenges of the global scenario for translating semantically rights into duties and responsibilities. “Recognising the changes that new technologies, scientific development and the process of Mondialisation have brought about, and aware of the need to address their impact upon and potential consequences for human rights and fundamental freedoms“, states in its Preamble.\n\nIts 12 chapters and 41 articles can be compared with the human rights such as formulated in the UDHR and recent initiatives that reflect a similar preoccupation for the formulation of duties and responsibilities, such as the United Nations Millennium Declaration, the Statute of Rome, the Global Compact, The Earth Charter, the Kyoto Protocol, and UNESCO declarations and conventions.\n\nThe drafting of the declaration has been the result of the committed and disinterested work of a group of experts integrated by Nobel laureates - Joseph Rotblat, Wole Soyinka and Dario Fo -, scientists, artists and philosophers representing all the regions of the world –among them, Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Richard Falk, Ruud Lubbers, Lord Frank Judd, Sergey Kapitsa, Jakob von Uexküll, Fernando Savater-, and the judicious chairmanship of Richard Goldstone from South Africa and among its members. This process was inspired by the need –in words of Justice Goldstone- of the transition from a “formal equality” to a “substantial equality, with a shared concern of the situation of millions of ignored and marginalised people in our globalised world: “the recognition of human rights is insufficient, … if such so rights are to be realized it is necessary that they are enforceable... There must be a duty on all relevant authorities and individuals to enforce those rights.” With a convergent perspective, Norberto Bobbio has entirely supported the initiative and the text of the DHDR, in particular taking into account the main concern for humanity of reinforcing the international systems. In that context he has established an interesting comparison between the transition from “moral rights” to “legal rights” and the need to transform “moral duties” into “legal duties” (See: Norberto Bobbio, Declaration of Human Duties and Responsibilities, page 98).\n\nThis Declaration proposes comprehensively the implicit system of duties and responsibilities contained in our human rights systems, in particular that enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and in subsequent international human rights instruments and establishes consequently their bearers.\n\nIn the DHDR Article 1 “duty” and “responsibility” are defined for the purpose of the declaration: \"duty\" means an ethical or moral obligation; and \"responsibility\", an obligation that is legally binding under existing international law.\nThe DHDR explains in details the complexity of the exercise of responsibilities. The bearers are the members of the global community that have collective, as well as individual duties and responsibilities, to promote universal observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms. “Global community\" means both States and non-States actors: international, regional and sub-regional intergovernmental organisations, non-governmental organisations, public and private sector (trans)national corporations, other entities of civil society, peoples, communities and individuals taken as a collective.\n\nThe DHDR reflects the gamma of both states and non-states actors that have to be mutual supportive bearers of duties and responsibilities. On the contrary, the UN Millennium Declaration (MD), recent international document of the governments, is focused primarily on the States responsibilities that is shared and collective: “We /heads of State and Government / recognize that, in addition to our separate responsibilities to our individual societies, we have a collective responsibility to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality and equity at the global level. As leaders we have a duty therefore to all the world’s people…”\n\nThe DHDR Article 2 is dedicated to postulate exhaustively the bearers of duties and responsibilities: “Members of the global community have collective, as well as individual duties and responsibilities, to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms.…” This declaration considers the existence of collective responsibilities inside the limits traced by the universally recognized rights, with the implicit consequences of accountability that would be fairly distributed. The DHDR addresses simultaneously the responsibilities of individuals and groups. It states: “As the holders of human rights and fundamental freedoms, all individuals, peoples and communities in the exercise of their rights and freedoms, have the duty and responsibility to respect those of others, and a duty to strive for the promotion and observance thereof”. This statement continues appropriately the way initiated by the UDHR in Article 29 and reiterates the interaction of duties, responsibilities and rights of the International Covenants on Human Rights of 1966.\n\nMost of the titles of the DHDR chapters enunciate a right or fundamental freedom that will be the thematic focus of the related duties and responsibilities. Chapter 2 begins the list of duties and responsibilities with the right to life and human security, rights to be secure for the present and also future generations in the awareness that for the first time in human history the humankind survival is in peril due to human action. Following the UDHR Article 3 “Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person”; this chapter draws our attention to the intergenerational responsibility.\n\nThe DHDR Article 3 is dedicated to the duty and responsibility to protect the life of every member of the human family and ensure the survival of both present and future generations. That means “to take reasonable steps to help others whose lives are threatened, or who are in extreme distress or need”. A key element of the formulation of the DHDR has been the present duty and responsibility for the potential consequences of our actions for the future generations. “The rights of these future generations are the duties of present generations” summarises correctly Federico Mayor, the then Director General UNESCO. Therefore, the right to peace and the right to live in a balanced ecological environment have to be recognized and guaranteed. In a broader sense, the Earth Charter, a declaration of principles for a sustainable world, emphasises the urgency of sharing responsibility for caring for the community of life, including the well-being of human family.\n\nThe DHDR Article 4 enunciates the duty and responsibility to promote collective security and a culture of peace of all members of the global community. War and conflict prevention, fostering international peace, global security and cooperation are needed for this purpose. The responsibility of States, according to UN Chapter 7, is underlined and also their duty strengthening mediation, conflict prevention and post-conflict peace-building mechanisms and peace-keeping capacities.\n\nThe DHDR Article 5 is dedicated to the duty and responsibility to promote rapid and effective disarmament in the interests of peace. Primarily the States are in charge of reducing military expenditure in favour of human development, and together with no-States actors to carry our nuclear disarmament, to cease any production or use of all chemical and biological weapons, and use of landmines.\n\nThe Duty to intervene to prevent gross human rights violations is stated in the DHDR Article 6 that means the commission of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and other gross or systematic human rights abuses in all circumstances. States are mainly in charge of preventing and also punishing such violations, and there is also a collective duty of the States to intervene in the case where individual State fails to prevent such abuses. UN Chapter 7 remains general framework for this responsibility. For defining gross human rights violations and the need of prevention and punishment this chapter has been inspired by the Rome Statute that was adopted some months before this Declaration was finalised.\n\nThe DHDR Article 7 enunciates the duty and responsibility unconditionally and in all circumstances to respect international humanitarian law during times of armed conflict. This law, commonly infringed, means for the government forces and insurgents, military or paramilitary forces the obligation to refrain from committing acts of genocide; crimes against humanity, and war crimes, as mass killing, torture or rape.\n\nThe focus of DHDR Article 8 is the duty and responsibility of humanitarian assistance and intervention to those in need. In a globalised world with millions of displaced people, it is claimed for the adequate provision of food, shelter, health care and other essential requirements for survival to ensure the right to life for everyone on the world.\n\nThe DHDR Article 9 finishes this chapter with the duty and responsibility to protect and promote a safe, stable and healthy environment, promoting respect, protection and preservation of the uniqueness and diversity of all forms of life. An adequate use of resources avoiding excessive exploitation and consumption, and a collaborative scientific research and exchange of information are required. This article promotes similarly to the Kyoto Protocol, an international and legally binding agreement to reduce greenhouse gases emissions worldwide, an urgent change of attitude towards the environment. This duty for the present and future generations has already been confirmed by a broad scientific consensus on the existence of climate change and the human responsibility.\n\nThe DHDR Article 10 emphasises the duty and responsibility to promote an equitable international order for the universal enjoyment of sustainable human, economic, social, cultural, political, scientific and technological development and equitably participation in the decision-making processes for an interdependent and technologically well equipped world, providing an extensive vision of the general formulation of the UDHR Article 28: “Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized”. The DHDR statements are categorical: “Economic policies and development should not be pursued at the expense of human rights or social development” (6), “Economic and social development shall not be pursued at the expense of the environment and natural resources” (7), and “As sovereign and equal members of the international community, all States have the right to participate fully, equitably and effectively in international and global institutions and decision-making processes…(8)” Coincidentally to the DHDR proposals the “millennium development goals” of the MD set an influential agenda for a global partnership to fight poverty, establishing shared goals for a better world by 2015. Their fulfilment is measurable indicated by a progress at quantitative level.\n\nFollowing the previous article, the DHDR Article 11 enunciates the duty to alleviate usurious debt that would endanger human lives and impede economic and social development.\n\nThis Chapter continues with the DHDR Article 12 dedicated to the duty and responsibility to promote safe, responsible and equitable scientific and technological development for the benefit of all humankind. The UNESCO spirit of encouraging universally intellectual and moral solidarity is emphasised, in particular taking into account the condition of the lesser scientifically advanced States. In particular this article has received a good reception by several scientists and related people. Neutrality of science appears today as an illusion, in particular considering formerly scientific advances such as in genetics or cybernetics. This DHDR approach reinforces fully the importance of the recent UNESCO ethical documents for biosciences, and also other efforts for codifying ethical principles for the use of science.\n\nThe DHDR Article 13 enunciates duties and responsibilities of public and private sector corporations, indicating as common criteria the respect for sovereignty of host countries and simultaneously fully respect and promotion of universal human rights and international labour standards. For having an ethical code of the corporations and for promoting a more sustainable and inclusive global economy, the then UN General Secretary, Kofi Annan, has proposed the Global Compact, an international initiative bringing companies together with UN agencies, labour and civil society to support universal environmental and social principles, that was finally launched in 2000.\n\nThe DHDR Article 14 enunciates the duty and responsibility to prevent and punish international and organised crime as a shared task of the members of the global community. This article also has the innovative approach of global cooperation of the Statute of Rome, for combating of international crimes, transnational crimes and organised crime and assisting international criminal tribunals.\n\nThe focus of the DHDR Article 15 is the duty and responsibility to eradicate corruption and build an ethical society in both the public and private sectors, implementing codes of conduct and training programmes, and promoting accountability, transparency public awareness of the harm caused by corruption. This emphasis in code of ethics was also encouraged by the Global Compact, in particular for the private sector.\n\nThe DHDR Article 16 expresses the duty and responsibility to ensure meaningful participation in public affairs, for ensuring that the authority of government is based upon the will of the people and the rule of law. This promoted participation reiterates the universal right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives of the UDHR Article 21 at different levels, in local, national and global governance.\n\nFollowing the content of the UDHR Article 19 on the right to freedom of opinion and expression, the DHDR Article 17 reformulates the duty and responsibility to respect and ensure freedom of opinion, expression, and the media, providing concrete measures for the world today, affirming the pursuit of truth as unhindered, and condemning any degrading treatment of individuals and the presentation of violence as entertainment. And Article 17 also insists that \"the media and journalists have a duty to report honestly and accurately to avoid incitement of racial, ethnic or religious violence or hatred. (\"see: Article 20 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights\")\n\nThe DHDR Article 18 establishes duties and responsibilities concerning information and communications technologies with the aim of ensuring universal access to basic communication and information infrastructure and services. Similarly, UNESCO has already made a recommendation on information promoting universal access to cyberspace.\n\nComplementing the UDHR Article 20 on the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association the DHDR Article 19 enunciates the duty and responsibility to take all necessary steps to ensure the substantive realisation of the rights to free assembly and freedom of association.\n\nFinally, the DHDR Article 20, following the UDHR Article 18 on the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, formulates the related duty and responsibility to respect and ensure freedom of religion, belief and conscience, and of having or not having a religion or belief.\n\nThe DHDR Article 21 focused on formulating the duty and responsibility to respect and ensure the physical, psychological and personal integrity of all members of the human family in all circumstances, including in situations of armed conflict, reformulate the UDHR articles 10-12 dedicated to the rights to personal integrity and respect for privacy.\n\nThe DHDR Article 22 enunciates the duty and responsibility to take all necessary measures to respect and ensure the right to personal liberty and physical security, in first place by the States, preventing arbitrary arrest and detention and ensuring that all arrests and detentions are carried out in accordance with universally recognised standards of fairness and due process.\n\nThe DHDR Article 23 emphasises today the duty and responsibility to prohibit and prevent slavery and institutions and practices similar to slavery and slave-like practices including child prostitution, child exploitation, enforced prostitution, debt bondage, serfdom, and other forms of enforced labour inconsistent with international law, punishing such practices; instituting effective controls to prevent the illegal trafficking of persons; creating greater public awareness through education of the human rights abuses associated with such practices. The UDHR Article 4 states that “no one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms”. Today slavery is still not eradicated from the world, although universally condemned.\n\nThe DHDR Article 24 enunciates the duty and responsibility to condemn torture and to take all necessary measures to prevent torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, declaring criminal and punishing all acts of torture, cruel and inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, enforcing strict controls over places and conditions of custody of persons deprived of their liberty. This enunciation specifies the duty for achieving the content of UDHR Article 5: “No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment”.\n\nDHDR Article 25: The duty and responsibility to condemn and to prevent and eradicate enforced disappearances declaring criminal and punishing all acts of forced disappearances, ensuring that persons deprived of their liberty are only held in officially recognised places of detention, and that they have adequate access to judicial officers, legal representation, medical personnel and family members during the course of their detention.\n\nAfter trying to meet the major global challenges of our interdependent world, that are affecting today humankind as a whole. The DHDR Chapter 7 rethinks the principle of equality, such as states in the first UDHR articles. With a similar approach the UNESCO has already approved two meaningful documents promoting cultural diversity, the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity (2001) and the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions (2005).\nThe DHDR Article 26 enunciates in general the duty to respect, ensure and promote the right to equal treatment and to eradicate discrimination in all its forms.\n\nThe DHDR Article 27 states the duty and responsibility for the States, in primary place, to respect and ensure the substantive equality of every member of human family, not only ensuring equality before the law, but also taking positive action to prevent direct or indirect discrimination.\n\nIn the DHDR Article 28 is enunciated the duty and responsibility to ensure substantive racial and religious equality, that means to ensure the effective enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination on the basis of race, religion or ethnicity, and to condemn all forms of racial and religious discrimination and respect racial, ethnic and religious diversity; promoting equal opportunities for all.\n\nThe DHDR Article 29 formulates the duty and responsibility to ensure sex and gender equality and the recognition of women's rights as human rights. In particular the States have to ensure the effective enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination on the basis of sex or gender, promoting the equality in the representation and participation of women in the public and political life, the eradication of cultural, religious and social practices which discriminate against women; the economic empowerment of women and the recognition of the full legal capacity of women.\n\nThe DHDR Article 30 is dedicated to the duty and responsibility to ensure the substantive equality of persons with a disability, and to ensure the enjoyment and exercise of all human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination on the basis of disability.\n\nSome progress towards the accomplishment of this duty can be observed at international level. In March 2006, the UN Programme on Disability has been consolidated into the Secretariat for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.\n\nReinforcing the fulfilment of equality, the aim of the Chapter 8 is to emphasise the need for protection of minorities and indigenous peoples. Both the global community and the States are considered by this Declaration as the major responsible, collectively and individually for ensuring the rights of these vulnerable groups.\n\nThe DHDR Article 31 formulates the duty and responsibility to respect and protect the existence, identity and rights of national, ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, having the States a primary duty and responsibility to take adequate measures. The above referred efforts of the UNESCO for protecting the value of cultural diversity and cultural expressions are a reflection of this obligation.\n\nThe DHDR Article 32 enunciates the duty and responsibility to respect, protect and promote the rights of indigenous peoples, in particular their right to preserve, maintain and develop their identities and to protect their means of livelihood, in a general context of respect of universal human rights. Indigenous rights are diversely protected at national level, but it is much needed that the international community assumes collectively their responsibility. It is also expected that the proposed declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples will be again considered for approval in September 2007 by the UN General Assembly in order to protect these rights universally.\n\nThe chapter 9 deals also with the implementation of the principle of equality taking into account the primary responsibilities of the States for the children and elderly rights.\n\nThe DHDR Article 33 emphasises the duty and responsibility to respect, protect and promote the rights of the child, following the content of the almost universally ratified UN Convention on the Right of the Child (1989) and aware, that although this excellent document is shared broadly by the international community, today million of children are still innocent victims of armed conflict, extreme poverty and hunger.\n\nThe DHDR Article 34 is dedicated to the formulation of the duty and responsibility to promote and enforce the rights and wellbeing of the elderly, trying to ensure the full and effective enjoyment by elderly people of all human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination on the basis of age, and to respect the well-being, dignity and physical and personal integrity of the elderly. Although major efforts are being made by the United Nations, such as the International Year of Older Persons (1999) and the formulation UN Principles addressing the independence, participation, care, self-fulfillment and dignity of older persons, and regional and national efforts, it does not exist by now a recognised framework for securing their rights. Therefore, the DHDR constitutes a very interesting contribution for enforcing the rights of the elderly.\n\nThe DHDR Chapter 10 complements the system of duties and responsibilities related to the right to work, quality of life and standard of living. For doing that, the DHDR take into account at the same time, the responsibility of the States and the shared responsibility of the world community in the context of the global interdependence.\n\nThe DHDR Article 35 formulates the duty and responsibility to promote the right to justly remunerated work, following considerately the UDHR Article 23. Measures such adopting policies designed to promote productive work; ensuring employment security, in particular protection against arbitrary or unfair dismissal; and ensuring equality of opportunity and conditions of work, are proposed by the DHDR.\n\nThe DHDR Article 36 emphasises the postponed duty and responsibility to promote quality of life and an adequate standard of living for all. Although in the UDHR Article 22 it states the States obligation of fulfilling “the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality”, today our interdependent world is not free from hunger and there is not universal access to adequate food and clean water for everyone. The DHDR reiterates the shared responsibility for eradicating extreme poverty from the world, in particular if we consider the sufficiency of material resources for meeting this challenge. Similarly, but with a more pragmatic approach, the Millennium Development Goals (2000) establishes an intergovernmental agreement for realising globally human rights. These transitional goals indicate indubitably the correct course for implementing human rights in a continuous process with measurable criteria. However, it would be positive to promote a dialogue on the achievement and evolution of the achievement of those goals with the help of this systematised view on universal duties and responsibilities.\n\nThe DHDR Chapter 11 is dedicated to formulate duties and responsibilities on the promotion of education, arts and culture, major topics of the UNESCO, such as the programmes “education for all” and its various instruments for securing adequate conditions for education and artistic and cultural activities.\n\nThe DHDR Article 37 enunciates the duty and responsibility to promote and enforce the right to education, taking into account that illiteracy still affects millions of people in the developing countries and that is coincident with the already referred Millennium Development Goals.\n\nThe DHDR Article 38 emphasises the duty and responsibility to foster arts and culture by the States and the global community in general, similarly to the UNESCO statements.\n\nThe DHDR finishes with the Chapter 12 dedicated to the right to a remedy where a human right or fundamental freedom is threatened or has been violated.\n\nThe DHDR Article 39 enunciates the duty and responsibility, primarily of the States, to provide for and enforce effective national judicial, administrative, legislative and other remedies for these cases, in similarity with the UDHR Article 8.\n\nThis Chapter proposes, finally, in article 40 the duty to monitor and implement the Declaration of Human Duties and Responsibilities, by establishing tripartite councils composed of State, civil society and private sector representatives in cooperation with States, relevant civil society organisations, national, regional and international inter-governmental organisations.\n\nThe DHDR Article 41 with a non-derogation clause where it states: “Nothing in this Declaration shall be interpreted as impairing or restricting the rights contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international and regional human rights instruments.”\n\n\n\nUNESCO\n"}
{"id": "43930773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43930773", "title": "ECourt", "text": "ECourt\n\nAn eCourt or Electronic Court, (sometimes written as ECourt, or e-Court) is a location in which matters of law are adjudicated upon, in the presence of qualified Judge or Judges, which has a well-developed technical infrastructure. This infrastructure is usually designed to allow parties, participants and other stakeholders to better operate some administrative and procedural aspects of the court’s functions, such as presenting evidence, filing judicial records (electronic court filing) or receiving testimony remotely.\n\nOften referred to as a paperless court, its objective is, in part, to reduce the reliance on paper or hard-copy documents during the judicial process. But on a larger scale it is usually implemented to increase the efficiency of the court by expediting the access to information.\n\nThe International Criminal Court in The Hague is often cited as a good example of an eCourt.\n\n"}
{"id": "304483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304483", "title": "Edict of Milan", "text": "Edict of Milan\n\nThe Edict of Milan () was the February 313 AD agreement to treat Christians benevolently within the Roman Empire. Western Roman Emperor Constantine I and Licinius, who controlled the Balkans, met in Milan and, among other things, agreed to change policies towards Christians following the Edict of Toleration by Galerius issued two years earlier in Serdica. The Edict of Milan gave Christianity a legal status, but did not make Christianity the State church of the Roman Empire; this took place under Emperor Theodosius I in 380 AD with the Edict of Thessalonica.\n\nThe document is found in Lactantius' \"De Mortibus Persecutorum\" and in Eusebius of Caesarea's \"History of the Church\" with marked divergences between the two. Whether or not there was a formal 'Edict of Milan'  is debated by some.\n\nThe version found in Lactantius is not in the form of an edict. It is a letter from Licinius to the governors of the provinces in the Eastern Empire he had just conquered by defeating Maximinus later in the same year and issued in Nicomedia.\n\nEver since the fall of the Severan dynasty in 235 AD, rivals for the imperial throne had bid for support by either favouring or persecuting Christians. The previous Edict of Toleration by Galerius had been recently issued by the emperor Galerius from Serdica and was posted at Nicomedia on 30 April 311. By its provisions, the Christians, who had \"followed such a caprice and had fallen into such a folly that they would not obey the institutes of antiquity\", were granted an indulgence.\n\nTheir confiscated property, however, was not restored until 313, when instructions were given for the Christians' meeting places and other properties to be returned and compensation paid by the state to the current owners:\n\nIt directed the provincial magistrates to execute this order at once with all energy so that public order may be restored and the continuance of divine favour may \"preserve and prosper our successes together with the good of the state.\"\n\nThe actual letters have never been retrieved. However, they are quoted at length in Lactantius' \"On the Deaths of the Persecutors\" (\"De mortibus persecutorum\"), which gives the Latin text of both Galerius's Edict of Toleration as posted at Nicomedia on 30 April 311 and of Licinius's letter of toleration and restitution addressed to the governor of Bithynia and posted at Nicomedia on 13 June 313.\n\nEusebius of Caesarea translated both documents into Greek in his \"History of the Church\" (\"Historia Ecclesiastica\"). His version of the letter of Licinius must derive from a copy posted in the province of Palaestina Prima (probably at its capital, Caesarea) in the late summer or early autumn of 313, but the origin of his copy of Galerius's Edict of 311 is unknown since that does not seem to have been promulgated in Caesarea. In his description of the events in Milan in his \"Life of Constantine\", Eusebius eliminated the role of Licinius, whom he portrayed as the evil foil to his hero Constantine.\n\nThe Edict was in effect directed against Maximinus Daia, the Caesar in the East who was at that time styling himself as Augustus. Having received the emperor Galerius' instruction to repeal the persecution in 311, Maximinus had instructed his subordinates to desist, but had not released Christians from prisons or virtual death-sentences in the mines, as Constantine and Licinius had both done in the West.\n\nFollowing Galerius' death, Maximin was no longer constrained; he enthusiastically took up renewed persecutions in the eastern territories under his control, encouraging petitions against Christians. One of those petitions, addressed not only to Maximin but also to Constantine and Licinius, is preserved in a stone inscription at Arycanda in Lycia, and is a \"request that the Christians, who have long been disloyal and still persist in the same mischievous intent, should at last be put down and not be suffered by any absurd novelty to offend against the honour due to the gods.\"\n\nThe Edict is popularly thought to concern only Christianity, and even to make Christianity the official religion of the Empire (which recognition did not actually occur until the Edict of Thessalonica in 380). Indeed, the Edict expressly grants religious liberty not only to Christians, who had been the object of special persecution, but goes even further and grants liberty to all religions:\n\nSince Licinius composed the Edict with the intent of publishing it in the east upon his hoped-for victory over Maximinus, it expresses the religious policy accepted by Licinius, a pagan, rather than that of Constantine, who was already a Christian. Constantine's own policy went beyond merely tolerating Christianity: he tolerated paganism and other religions, but he actively promoted Christianity.\n\nAlthough the Edict of Milan is commonly presented as Constantine’s first great act as a Christian emperor, it is disputed whether the Edict of Milan was an act of genuine faith. The document could be seen as Constantine's first step in creating an alliance with the Christian God, who he considered the strongest deity. At that time, he was concerned about social stability and the protection of the empire from the wrath of the Christian God: in this view, the Edict could be a pragmatic political decision rather than a religious shift. However, the majority of historians believe that Constantine's conversion to Christianity was genuine, and that the Edict of Milan was merely the first official act of Constantine as a dedicated Christian. This view is supported by Constantine's ongoing favors on behalf of Christianity during the rest of his reign. \nThe Edict of Milan required that the wrong done to the Christians be righted as thoroughly as possible; it claims “it has pleased us to remove all conditions whatsoever.” The edict further demanded that individual Romans right any wrongs towards Christians, claiming that “the same shall be restored to the Christians without payment or any claim of recompense and without any kind of fraud or deception.” These provisions indicate that more than just the establishment of justice was intended. After demanding the immediate return of what was lost by the Christians, the edict states that this should be done so that “public order may be secured”, not for the intrinsic value of justice or the glory of God. The exhortation to urgently right wrongs reflects the leaders' desires to avoid unfavorable consequences, which in this case included social unrest and further conquests. Constantine was superstitious and believed enough in the existence of the non-Christian gods to not want to offset the balance of good and evil. It was believed that, the sooner this balance was restored by the Romans establishing a state of justice with the Christians, the sooner the state would become stable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33766034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33766034", "title": "Emmanuelle Jouannet", "text": "Emmanuelle Jouannet\n\nEmmanuelle Tourme-Jouannet is a Professor at Sciences Po since May 2014 and the co-editor-in-chief of the Journal of History of International Law.\n\nShe is a former Professor at the Sorbonne University, where she acted as the legal director of the master's degree in international law at the Paris-Sorbonne University, Emmanuelle Tourme-Jouannet was also the Deputy Director of the \"Institut de recherche en droit international et européen\" (IREDIES). Through this research institute, she is the editor in chief of the \"Doctrine\" and the \"French Studies in International Law\" Collections. She is also an associate researcher at the \"UMR 8103\" (Mixed research Unit) in Comparative law, Pantheon-Sorbonne University and at the \"Institut Michel-Villey pour la culture juridique et la philosophie du droit\", Panthéon-Assas University. At an international level, Emmanuelle Tourme-Jouannet leads the joint programs between Paris 1 and both Columbia University and Cornell University. She is a member of the Editorial Board of the \"Journal européen de droit international\" (EJIL, The European Journal of International Law) and of Editorial committees of the \"Archives de Philosophie du droit\" (Archives of Philosophy of the law) et de la \"Revue belge de droit international\" (Belgium Magazine of International Law). In March, 2010, she becomes member of Academic Council of the \"Harvard Institute for Global Law and Policy\" (Harvard University). In 2011, Emmanuelle Tourme-Jouannet is placed in the direction of the international program of research in the IREDIES-CERDIN : \"Justice et Droit international dans un monde global\" (Justice and International law in a global world).\n\n\n\n\nEmmanuelle Jouannet is member of the Editorial Board of the \"Journal européen de droit international\", the \"Société européenne de droit international\", the \"International group in Legal Theory\", the \"Revue belge de droit international\" (RBDI)12, the magazine \"Archives de philosophie du droit\", the \"BRILL's Series : Studies in History of International Law\", the \"Société française pour la philosophie et la théorie juridiques et politiques\" (SFPJ), the \"Société française de droit international\", the \"Société européenne de droit international\", the \"Association française de philosophie du droit\", the \"American Society of International Law\", the \"Institut Michel-Villey pour la culture juridique et la philosophie du droit\", the \"Institut européen des droits de l'homme\", the \"Commission de validation des acquis de l'université Paris-I\". Emmanuelle Jouannet is Member of the \"Academic Council du Institute for International Law and the Humanities\" of University of Melbourne, in Australia, and member of the \"Advisory Boards du French Law Program Faculty\" of the University of Maine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2485674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2485674", "title": "En ventre sa mere", "text": "En ventre sa mere\n\nThe Law French phrase en ventre sa mere (literally \"in womb its mother\", corruption of the original French \"en ventre de sa mère\" \"in the womb of its mother\") refers to a fetus in utero. It is commonly used in Legal English.\n\nAn unborn fetus, which is thus still \"en ventre sa mere\", may be accepted to be a beneficiary for some purposes, provided it is subsequently born alive. Such a fetus is treated as born if it thereby takes a direct benefit.\n\nThe use of this concept in legal language can be traced to English cases in the nineteenth century. In \"Occleston v Fullalove\" (1873-74) L.R. 9 Ch. App. 147, a case heard in the Court of Appeal in Chancery it was argued for the Appellant that although the child in question was \"en ventre sa mère\" at the date of the will subject to the litigation, there was neither principle nor authority against such a child having a reputation of paternity. The Court allowed the after-born child to share with her sisters under the will.\n\nThe concept is used in common law jurisdictions and has been extended beyond the law of wills and succession so that claims in the law of torts are also recognised. In the Australian case \"Watt v. Rama\" [1972] VR 353 it was deemed that a fetus is a person entitled, once born, to compensation as a plaintiff for injury caused while \"en ventre sa mère\".\n\nSome U.S. cases have removed the requirement that the fetus actually be born. In \"Amadio v. Levin\", 509 Pa. 199 (1985), the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held that \"it makes no difference in liability under the wrongful death and survival statutes whether the child dies of the injuries just prior to or just after birth.\" In \"Farley v. Sartin Trucking\", 195 W.Va. 671, the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia did away with a requirement that a tortiously killed fetus be viable outside the womb at the time the tort was committed. The deceased unborn child's personal representative may maintain an action pursuant to the state's wrongful death statute, the court held, cautioning that the cause of action does not extend against a woman who has a legal abortion.\n\nIn current spoken French, the phrase would now be rendered as \"dans le ventre de sa mère\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3138801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3138801", "title": "Erven Warnink BV v J Townend &amp; Sons (Hull) Ltd", "text": "Erven Warnink BV v J Townend &amp; Sons (Hull) Ltd\n\nErven Warnink B.V. v. J. Townend & Sons (Hull) Ltd., [1979] AC 731, [1980] R.P.C. 31, – also known as the Advocaat case – is a leading decision of the House of Lords that further developed the common law tort of extended passing off for the Commonwealth as originally established in \"Bollinger v. Costa Brava\". Prior to this case \"collective goodwill\", as required for an action in passing off, only applied to names indicating geographic origin. The Court held that wares whose name falsely suggests its character or quality can be prevented from selling the product under that name.\n\nWarnink was one of the primary market producers of a Dutch liqueur made from a blend of hen egg yolks, aromatic spirits, sugar, and brandy, which it sold under the name \"Advocaat\". Townend produced a similar alcoholic drink but using egg and Cyprus wine which it sold as \"Keeling's Old English Advocaat\".\n\nThe Court held that Townend was passing off their goods as those of Warnink. In applying the test for passing off, the Court developed what is known as the \"extended\" tort of passing off which included any situation where goodwill is likely to be injured by a misrepresentation.\n\nLord Diplock established five criteria for a claim of extended passing off. There must be:\n\n"}
{"id": "5305627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5305627", "title": "Eye of the Beholder (song)", "text": "Eye of the Beholder (song)\n\n\"Eye of the Beholder\" is a song by the American heavy metal band Metallica. It was released as the second single from their fourth studio album, \"...And Justice for All\" released on October 30, 1988. \n\nLyrically, the song concerns imposed limitations on freedom of speech and freedom of expression in general. \"Eye of the Beholder\" is notable for its chorus section containing 12/8 time played, not as an ordinary compound quadruple time, but as a syncopated rhythm. The rest of the song is a more conventional 4/4 rhythm at a slower tempo than that seen on Metallica's previous three albums.\n\nThe song has not been performed live in its entirety since 1989. It has, however, always formed part of the medleys of songs from \"…And Justice for All\" often played by the band in concert during the 1990s as an alternative to playing full songs, many of which were seen as too difficult because of the numerous guitar parts. One such \"Justice Medley\" was featured on its 1993 live album \"\".\n\nIn Flames recorded a cover of \"Eye of the Beholder\" on \"Metal Militia – A Tribute to Metallica\", a tribute album recorded by various artists. This version of the song also appears on the remastered edition of In Flames' first EP, \"Subterranean\". A cover of the song also appeared on the \"\" tribute album, performed by Life After Death, a band formed by Phil Sandoval after the break-up of Armored Saint.\n"}
{"id": "4722082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4722082", "title": "Greek republic referendum, 1924", "text": "Greek republic referendum, 1924\n\nA referendum on becoming a republic was held in Greece on 13 April 1924. It followed the catastrophic outcome of the Asia Minor Campaign. As a result of the military defeat, King Constantine I was forced to abdicate (27 September 1922) in favor of his son, King George II. King George himself later went into exile in Romania, the home of his wife, while the government debated the fate of the monarchy. Ultimately, a plebiscite was called. This referendum, following the restoration of Constantine I in 1920, reflected the see-saw nature of the Greek electorate and the then-present dominance of the Liberal and Republican Venizelists in Greek politics and abolished the Crown. Prime Minister Alexandros Papanastasiou favoured the vote for the Republic, while Venizelos kept a neutral stance.\n\nOn 25 March 1924 the Second Hellenic Republic was proclaimed.\n"}
{"id": "9308005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9308005", "title": "Gross receipts tax", "text": "Gross receipts tax\n\nA gross receipts tax or gross excise tax is a tax on the total gross revenues of a company, regardless of their source. A gross receipts tax is similar to a sales tax, but it is levied on the seller of goods or service consumers. This is compared to other taxes listed as separate line items on billings, are not directly included in the listed price of the item, and are not a factor in markup or profit on company sales. A gross receipts tax has a pyramid effect that increases the actual taxable percentage as it passes through the product or service life-cycle.\n\nEconomists have criticized gross receipts taxes for encouraging vertical integration among companies and imposing different effective tax rates across different industries.\n\nSeveral states in the United States have imposed gross receipts taxes.\n\n\nIn addition to these states, Texas has a \"margin tax\" on certain corporate net revenues.\n\n"}
{"id": "44818199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44818199", "title": "H. N. Goff", "text": "H. N. Goff\n\nHardy Nathaniel Goff (July 9, 1910 – July 2, 1978),\nwas a businessman from Alexandria, Louisiana, who served as a Democrat from 1952 to 1956 in the Louisiana House of Representatives during the administration of Governor Robert F. Kennon. His colleagues were his fellow Alexandria Democrats Cecil R. Blair and Lloyd George Teekell.\n\nGoff owned an insurance agency in Alexandria. A subdivision is also named for him. Goff died a week before his 68th birthday and is interred at Alexandria Memorial Gardens.\n"}
{"id": "36292924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36292924", "title": "Helvetic Republic constitutional referendum, 1802", "text": "Helvetic Republic constitutional referendum, 1802\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Helvetic Republic on 25 May 1802. Unlike the constitution approved in 1798, the new constitution, known as the Malmaison constitution, did not provide for any referendums. Non-voters were assumed to have voted in favour of the new constitution, a measure put in place to prevent its rejection. As a result, 72.17% of voters were deemed to be in favour.\n"}
{"id": "54674092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54674092", "title": "Hext v Yeomans", "text": "Hext v Yeomans\n\nHext v Yeomans (1583) is an early defamation case wherein the Court found that \"slander do not lie upon inferences\". It was the origin of the \"mitior sensus doctrine\", imputing a mere intention to commit a crime was held to be nonactionable.\n\nThe defendant referred to as Yeoman was accused of saying to Hext \"I doubt not but to see thee hanged for stricking Mr Sydmans man, who was murdered.\" The judge found that Yeoman had not actually asserted it was Hext who had done the murder, merely that he had struck him.\n"}
{"id": "49674011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49674011", "title": "I Need a Freak", "text": "I Need a Freak\n\n\"I Need A Freak\" is an influential rap/electro song, originally released in 1983 by the musical act Sexual Harassment. It has been recorded and sampled many times, most notably by the multi-platinum group Black Eyed Peas for their 2005 hit song \"My Humps\".\n\nIn 2011, the song's composer, Lynn Tolliver, won a $1.2 million lawsuit against former collaborator, James McCants, who licensed use of the song without Tolliver's authorization. Tolliver, a popular, long-time DJ from WZAK in Cleveland, Ohio told the Cleveland Plain Dealer, \"I don't get all that money, and I don't have any of it yet, but this couldn't have happened at a better time... I've been unemployed the last few years and was near bankruptcy, so this is a blessing.\" Tolliver was well-known in Cleveland for his on-air stunts and was once attacked by a gunman at the station in 1985. Tolliver is listed under his pseudonym David Payton on the album credits. The song was also released on the 1996 compilation album, \"Old School: Volume 6,\" as well as the 2000 compilation, \"In Da Beginning...There Was Rap.\"\n\nA dispute over royalties for the song were heard in an Ohio court in 2014.\n\nOther artists who have covered the song include:\n\n"}
{"id": "502129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=502129", "title": "Industrial Commission", "text": "Industrial Commission\n\nThe Industrial Commission was a United States government body in existence from 1898 to 1902. It was appointed by President William McKinley to investigate railroad pricing policy, industrial concentration, and the impact of immigration on labor markets, and make recommendations to the President and Congress. McKinley and the Commissioners launched the trust-busting era. The Industrial Commission included McKinley's Ohio running mate, Commissioner Andrew L. Harris (a Governor of Ohio and Civil War General) who served as Chair of the Agriculture Subcommittee, and prominent Senators and Congressmen. After McKinley was assassinated in 1901, President Theodore Roosevelt heeded the advice of the Commissioners and further regulated the large trusts. Roosevelt became known as the nation's toughest trust-buster.\n"}
{"id": "30535977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30535977", "title": "Investigatory Powers Tribunal", "text": "Investigatory Powers Tribunal\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Investigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT) is a judicial body, independent of the British government, which hears complaints about surveillance by public bodies—in fact, \"the only Tribunal to whom complaints about the Intelligence Services can be directed\".\n\nIt was established in 2000 by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIPA) and replaced the Interception of Communications Tribunal, the Security Service Tribunal, and the Intelligence Services Tribunal.\n\nThe IPT does not disclose its address; it uses a PO box in Nine Elms, London, close to the Secret Intelligence Building. Its website was created in 2003 by Tricorn Media, which has worked extensively for the police and Home Office. The IPT and its shortcomings were discussed in a BBC Radio 4 \"File on 4\" programme in September 2013.\n\nCertain European Court of Human Rights judgments said the IPT offers no human rights remedy on surveillance questions, in particular Burden v United Kingdom (2008) 47 EHRR 38 and Malik v United Kingdom (Application no.32968/11) [2013] ECHR 794 (28 May 2013).\n\nThe Tribunal has jurisdiction to consider complaints about the use of surveillance by any organisation with powers under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. It is also the only judicial body with the power to investigate the conduct of the Security Service (MI5), the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) and the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ).\n\nOrganisations under the IPT's jurisdiction must provide details to the IPT of any activity that is being complained about. The IPT will only decide whether any surveillance that is being carried out is lawful—i.e., that it has been appropriately authorised and is being conducted in accordance with the applicable rules. If it investigates a complaint and finds that surveillance is being carried out but is lawful, it will not confirm to the complainant that they are under surveillance, merely state that their complaint has not been upheld. The IPT is exempt from the Freedom of Information Act 2000 so information made available to it in the course of considering a complaint cannot be obtained under a freedom of information request.\n\nComplaints may be dealt with on paper or by oral hearing, at the IPT's discretion.\n\nA complaint about surveillance being conducted by a private person or a company cannot be heard by the IPT.\n\nThere is no avenue to appeal, other than to take the case to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nThe IPT's ten members are appointed by the Queen for five-year terms, after which they may \"stand down or declare themselves available for reappointment\". The President and Vice President must both hold or have previously held senior judicial posts. The current President is Michael Burton, a member of the High Court of England and Wales, who was Vice President of the IPT since its inception in 2000 before being appointed as President in October 2013. All the other members must be experienced barristers or solicitors.\n\nAs of July 2014, they are:\n\nOnly select IPT rulings are published. Statistics concerning complaints dealt with by the IPT are published each year in the Annual Report of the Interception of Communications Commissioner. Those statistics shows that very few complaints about surveillance have been upheld; from 2000 to 2009, five out of at least 956 complaints have been upheld, as shown in the table below.\n\nOne of the IPT's few published rulings concerns the high-profile case of a family who were placed under surveillance by Poole Borough Council in order to investigate claims that the family were not living in the school catchment area which they claimed. The IPT ruled that the use of covert surveillance by the Council was not appropriate.\n\nIn 2010, the IPT produced an annual report for the first time. The report provided statistics relating to the outcomes of complaints. It was stated that 210 complaints were considered in 2010 (including some carried over from the previous year) but 105 (50%) of these cases were inadmissible and were not investigated. This includes cases which were withdrawn, malformed, out of time, out of jurisdiction or, most commonly, \"frivolous or vexatious\". Sixty-five cases were considered by the IPT to be frivolous or vexatious—generally either obviously unsustainable or repeats of previous complaints.\n\nIn 2012, the IPT provided statistics relating to the number of new complaints received and those considered over the course of the year, but did not specify whether any had been upheld.\n\nFollowing the global surveillance disclosures by Edward Snowden in 2013, the British government submitted documents to the Tribunal which showed for the first time that its intelligence services could access raw material collected in bulk by the National Security Agency (NSA), and other foreign spy agencies, without a warrant. This appeared to contradict assurances given in July 2013 by the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee which stated that in all cases in which GCHQ obtained intelligence from the US a warrant was signed by a minister.\n\nOn 6 November 2014, official documents disclosed to the IPT by the intelligence agencies revealed that their guidance policies allowed staff to access confidential communications between lawyers and their clients. This privileged relationship is usually strictly protected under British law, and leading campaigners said the disclosures had \"troubling implications for the whole British justice system\". The release of the documents resulted from a claim brought on behalf of two Libyan men who had sued the British government for alleged complicity in their detention and subsequent rendition to the Libyan authorities. The British government refused to make a full statement concerning the revelations contained in the documents, saying only that it did not comment on ongoing legal proceedings. \n\nThe IPT ruled in December 2014 that GCHQ did not breach the European Convention on Human Rights, and that its activities are compliant with Articles 8 (right to privacy) and 10 (freedom of expression) of the European Convention of Human Rights. However, in February 2015, the Tribunal refined its earlier judgement and ruled that aspects of the data-sharing arrangement that allowed UK Intelligence services to request data from the US surveillance programmes Prism and Upstream did contravene said Articles and, as such, were illegal between – at least - 2007, when Prism was introduced, and 2014, when two paragraphs of additional information, providing details about the procedures and safeguards, were disclosed to the public in December 2014.\n\nFurthermore, the IPT ruled that the legislative framework in the United Kingdom does not permit mass surveillance and that while GCHQ collects and analyses data in bulk, it does not practice mass surveillance. This complements independent reports by the Interception of Communications Commissioner, and a special report made by the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament.\n\nIn 2015, three parliamentarians took a case to the IPT that the Wilson Doctrine, that parliamentarians' communications should not be tapped, was being broken. The IPT panel, headed by two senior High Court judges, found the Wilson Doctrine is not enforceable in law and does not impose any legal restraints on the intelligence agencies. They said MPs have the same level of legal protection as the general public when it comes to interception of their communications, and that only lawyers and journalists have more protection due to human rights law. Subsequently, the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary said in Parliament that the protection of MPs communications from being intercepted still applies but does not extend to a blanket ban on surveillance. The Investigatory Powers Bill includes a provision to place the Wilson Doctrine on a statutory footing for the first time.\n\n"}
{"id": "52808307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52808307", "title": "Janus Lauritz Andreas Kolderup-Rosenvinge", "text": "Janus Lauritz Andreas Kolderup-Rosenvinge\n\nJanus Lauritz Andreas Kolderup-Rosenvinge (10 May 1792 – 4 August 1850) was a Danish jurist and a leading historian of Danish law. He taught at the University of Copenhagen, of which he was the rector in 1833–34.\n\nHe is known for his \"Grundrids af den danske Lovhistorie\" (1822–23), the first systematic history of Danish law, and for his collections of sources about the same. Kolderup-Rosenvinge also wrote textbooks on police law, international law and church law.\n"}
{"id": "19320712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19320712", "title": "Land tenure in England", "text": "Land tenure in England\n\nEven before the Norman Conquest, there was a strong tradition of landholding in Anglo-Saxon law. When William the Conqueror asserted sovereignty over England in 1066, he confiscated the property of the recalcitrant English landowners. Over the next dozen years, he granted land to his lords and to the dispossessed Englishmen, or affirmed their existing land holdings, in exchange for fealty and promises of military and other services. At the time of the Domesday Book, all land in England was held by someone, and from that time there has been no allodial land in England. In order to legitimise the notion of the Crown's paramount lordship, a legal fiction - that all land titles were held by the King's subjects as a result of a royal grant - was adopted.\n\nMost of these tenants-in-chief had considerable land holdings and proceeded to grant parts of their land to their subordinates. This constant process of granting new tenures was known as subinfeudation. It created a complicated pyramid of feudal relationships. (see also Lord of the manor). At the bottom of the feudal pyramid were the tenants who lived on and worked the land (called the tenants in demesne and also the tenant paravail). In the middle were the lords who had no direct relationship with the King, or with the land in question - referred to as mesne lords.\n\nLand was granted in return for various \"services\" and \"incidents\". A service was an obligation on the part of the tenant owed to the landlord. The most important were payment of rent (socage tenure), military service (Knight-service), the performance of some form of religious service (frankalmoin) and personal/official service, including in times of war (serjeanty tenure). \n\nIncidents, on the other hand, were rights conferred on the lord over the tenant's land or the tenant's person that arose in certain circumstances, most commonly on the death of the tenant. An important incident was that of escheat, whereby the land of the tenant by knight service would escheat to the Crown in the event either of there being no heirs, or the knight's being convicted of a felony.\n\nThe concept of land tenure has been described as a \"spatial fragmentation of proprietary interests in land\". No one person could claim absolute ownership of a parcel of land, except the Crown. Thus the modern concept of \"ownership\" is not helpful in explaining the complexity of the distribution of rights. In relation to a particular piece of land, a number of people had rights: first, the tenant in demesne with possessory rights; second the mesne lord to whom the tenant owed services; third, a tenant in chief to whom the mesne lord owed services; and finally the Crown who received services directly from the tenant in chief.\n\nThe feudal system in England gradually became more and more complex until eventually the process became cumbrous and services difficult to enforce. As a result, the statute of Quia Emptores was passed in 1290 to replace subinfeudation with substitution, so the subordinate tenant transferred their tenure rather than creating a new subordinate tenure. As tenancies came to an end, the number of layers in the feudal pyramid was reduced. The Tenures Abolition Act 1660 abolished knight service, converting all free tenures to socage tenure. \n\nQuia Emptores and its equivalents do not apply to leases and life estates. In essence, lease of land to a tenant is a form of subinfeudation (unless the lease is granted by the Crown).\n\nThe main two official surveys undertaken in the British Isles with the aim of identifying owners of land and land values are the Domesday Book of 1086 and the Return of Owners of Land, 1873.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7108487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7108487", "title": "Legal status of Jainism as a distinct religion in India", "text": "Legal status of Jainism as a distinct religion in India\n\nJainism is considered to be a legally distinct religion in India. A section of scholars earlier considered it as a Hindu sect or a Buddhist heresy, but it is one of the three ancient Indian religions. On 30 January 2014, the Government of India explicitly awarded the status of a \"minority religion\" to the Jain community in India, as per Section 2(c) of the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) Act (NCM), 1992.\n\n\nIn 1993, the National Minorities Commission arrived at their recommendation that the Jain community be declared as a minority religious community. It was in consideration of the following:\nIt resolved to recommend to the Government of India that the Jains deserve to be recognised as a distinct religious minority, and that, therefore the Government of India may consider including them in the listing of \"Minorities.\"\n\nIn 2005, the Supreme Court of India declined to issue a writ of Mandamus towards granting Jains the status of a religious minority throughout India. The Court however left it to the respective states to decide on the minority status of Jain religion.\n\nIn one of the observations of the Supreme Court, not forming part of the judgment, the Court said:\nThe Supreme Court also noted: \" … that the State Governments of Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have already notified Jains as 'minority' in accordance with the provisions of the respective State Minority Commissions Act.\"\n\nThis cast a doubt on the independent standing of Jain religion. Scholars in the Jain tradition, as well as several groups amongst the Jain community protested, and emphasised that Jain religion stands as a religion in its own right. While Hinduism as a mode of living, and as a culture is to be found across various religions in India because of several common customs, traditions and practices, but as religions Hindu religion and Jain religion are distinct.\n\nOn 20 January 2014, the Government of India awarded the minority status to the Jain community in India, as per Section 2(c) of the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) Act (NCM), 1992. This made the Jain community which makes for 7 million or 0.4 percent of the population as per 2001 census, the sixth community to be designated this status as a \"national minority\", after Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsis. Though Jains already had minority status in 11 states of India including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, in 2005 a petition was filed with Supreme Court of India, by community representatives, which was also backed by the National Minorities Commission. In its judgement the court left the decision to the Central government.\n\nIn 2006, the Supreme Court opined that \"Jain Religion is indisputably is not a part of Hindu Religion\".\n\nJainism and Other Religions: Illustrations noted by Supreme Court of India in the U.P. Basic Shiksha Parishad Judgment (the para numbers refer to the paragraphs in the Judgment):\n\nOn 3 September 1949, while addressing a public meeting at Allahabad, the first Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru said:\n\nThe said speech can be considered to be a clarification on Article 25 of the Constitution of India.\n\n10.2 On 31 January 1950, the PPS to the then Prime Minister of India sent a letter to the Jain Deputation on behalf of the then Prime Minister, which reads as under: (See adjoining image for original letter)\n\n10.5 Jawaharlal Nehru, in his book \"Discovery of India\", mentioned as under:\n\n10.3 Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, the former President of India, in his book \"Indian Philosophy Vol I\" mentioned as under:\n\n15. Dr. Radhakrishnan, who edited the 6th Volume of The Cultural Heritage of India, mentioned as under:\n\nThe Freedom of Religion Bill was a controversial bill passed by the Gujarat state assembly. The bill was passed in 2003. An amendment to the bill was passed on 19 September 2006 which banned the forced conversion from one religion to another. The Anti-Conversion Act passed earlier was not clear on what forced conversion meant and to whom should it apply. Under the amendment Bill, a person need not seek permission in case he/she is converting from one sect to another of the same religion. It clubbed Jainism and Buddhism as denominations of Hinduism, like Shia and Sunnis are of Islam or Catholicism and Protestantism of Christianity. The move evoked strong protests from the state's Jain, Buddhist and Christian communities. The National Commission for Minorities also criticised the Gujarat Assembly's decision to club Jainism and Buddhism with Hinduism terming it to be in contravention of its 23 October 1993, notification classifying Buddhists as a \"minority community.\"\n\nUltimately on 31 July 2007, finding it not in conformity with the concept of freedom of religion as embodied in Article 25 (1) of the Constitution, Governor Nawal Kishore Sharma returned the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill, 2006. The Governor held that Jainism and Buddhism are recognised as religions rather than denominations of Hinduism, something that the Amendment Bill sought to wrongly convey. A press release issued by Raj Bhavan, said \"the proposed amendment would amount to withdrawing the protection against forceful or inappropriate religious conversions, particularly in case of Jains and Buddhists\". The release cited large scale protests from different religious and social organisations, especially from the Jain and Christian communities, in indicating toward the unacceptability of the proposed amendment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158881", "title": "Lemon v. Kurtzman", "text": "Lemon v. Kurtzman\n\nLemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602 (1971), was a case argued before the Supreme Court of the United States. The court ruled in an 8–1 decision that Pennsylvania's Nonpublic Elementary and Secondary Education Act (represented through David Kurtzman) from 1968 was unconstitutional, violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. The act allowed the Superintendent of Public Schools to reimburse private schools (mostly Catholic) for the salaries of teachers who taught in these private schools, from public textbooks and with public instructional materials. The decision also upheld a decision of the United States District Court for the District of Rhode Island, which had struck down the Rhode Island Salary Supplement Act providing state funds to supplement salaries at private elementary schools by 15%. As in Pennsylvania, most of these funds were spent on Catholic schools.\n\nThe Court's decision in this case established the \"Lemon test\" (named after the lead plaintiff Alton Lemon), which details legislation concerning religion. It is threefold:\n\n\nIf any of these prongs are violated, the government's action is deemed unconstitutional under the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe act stipulated that \"eligible teachers must teach only courses offered in the public schools, using only materials used in the public schools, and must agree not to teach courses in religion.\" Still, a three-judge panel found 25% of the State's elementary students attended private schools, about 95% of those attended Roman Catholic schools, and the sole beneficiaries under the act were 250 teachers at Roman Catholic schools.\n\nThe court found that the parochial school system was \"an integral part of the religious mission of the Catholic Church,\" and held that the Act fostered \"excessive entanglement\" between government and religion, thus violating the Establishment Clause.\n\nHeld: Both statutes are unconstitutional under the Religion Clauses of the First Amendment, as the cumulative impact of the entire relationship arising under the statutes involves excessive entanglement between government and religion.\n\nConservative Justices, such as Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia, have scrutinized the application of the \"Lemon\" test. The test was compared to a \"ghoul in a late night horror movie\" by Justice Scalia in \"Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School District\" (1993). \n\nThe Supreme Court itself has applied the \"Lemon\" test in \"Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe\" (2000), while in \"McCreary County v. American Civil Liberties Union\" (2005) the court did not overturn the \"Lemon\" test, even though it was urged to do so by the petitioner.\n\nThe test was also central to \"Kitzmiller v. Dover\", a 2005 intelligent design case before the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals applied the test in \"Int'l Refugee Assistance Project v. Trump\" (2017) upholding a preliminary injunction against President Donald Trump's executive order banning immigration from certain majority-Muslim countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11155181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11155181", "title": "List of exonerated death row inmates", "text": "List of exonerated death row inmates\n\nThis list contains names of people who were found guilty of capital crimes and placed on death row, and were later found to be wrongly convicted. Some people were exonerated posthumously.\n\nThis list includes individuals who were sentenced to death and had their sentences overturned by acquittal or pardon. The state listed is the state where the individual was convicted, the year listed is the year of release, and the case listed is the case that overturned their conviction.\n\nThis list does not include:\n\n1983\n\n2012\n2016\n\n1966\n\n1968\n\n1969\n\n1973\n\nIn October 2015, the Death Penalty Information Center said that there had been 156 exonerations of prisoners on death row in the United States since 1973.\n\n1977\n\n1987\n1989\n\n1993\n\n1995\n\n1996\n\n1999\n\n2000\n\n2002\n\n2003\n\n2004\n\n2008\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n2011\n\n2012\n\n2013\n\n2014\n\n2015\n\n2017\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8642790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8642790", "title": "List of financial regulatory authorities by country", "text": "List of financial regulatory authorities by country\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of financial regulatory authorities by country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCapital Market Authority (Saudi Arabia) (CMA) (هيئة السوق المالية in Arabic)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486", "title": "List of international environmental agreements", "text": "List of international environmental agreements\n\nThis is a list of international environmental agreements.\n\nMost of the following agreements are legally binding for countries that have formally ratified them. Some, such as the Kyoto Protocol, differentiate between types of countries and each nation's respective responsibilities under the agreement. Several hundred international environmental agreements exist but most link only a limited number of countries. These bilateral or sometimes trilateral agreements are only binding for the countries that have ratified them but are nevertheless essential in the international environmental regime. Including the major conventions listed below, more than 3,000 international environmental instruments have been identified by the Canada Research Chair in International Political Economy in its TIPEA project.\n\n\n<section begin=air treaties />\n<section end=air treaties/>\n\n\n<section begin=waste treaties />\n<section end=waste treaties />\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18887743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18887743", "title": "List of parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women", "text": "List of parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women\n\nThe list of parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women encompasses the states who have signed and ratified or acceded to the international agreement to prevent discrimination against women.\n\nOn December 18, 1979, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women was opened for signature. Sweden became the first state to deposit the treaty on July 2, 1980. The treaty came into force and closed for signature on September 3, 1981 with the ratification of 20 states. Since then, states that did not sign the treaty can now only accede to it. The instrument of ratification, accession, or succession is deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\nAs of May 2015, 189 states have ratified or acceded to the treaty, most recently South Sudan on April 30, 2015. In addition, the United States and Palau have signed but not ratified the treaty. The Republic of China (Taiwan) has also ratified the treaty in its legislature, but is unrecognized by the United Nations and is a party to the treaty only unofficially.\n\n\"Note:\" Niue is a signatory of this convention, signed on behalf by New Zealand as was the Cook Islands, however since then the Cook Islands had acceded to the convention out right.\n"}
{"id": "23585274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23585274", "title": "Loudermill letter", "text": "Loudermill letter\n\nIn employment law, a Loudermill letter is a letter that public-sector employers may send to employees giving notice of their intent to suspend, demote, or terminate.\n\nAccording to Cleveland Bd. of Educ. v. Loudermill, the process that is due a public employee includes a pre-termination hearing that provides \"oral or written notice of the charges against him, an explanation of the employer's evidence, and an opportunity to present his side of the story.\" The Loudermill letter fulfills the requirement of (written) notice, and should include an explanation of the employer's evidence (\"to act as a check for mistaken accusations\"). To fulfill the remaining Due Process requirements, a Loudermill letter will also have to inform the employee of his opportunity for a Loudermill hearing.\n\nThe formal letter advising the employee that discipline is being considered, and offering the opportunity for the employee to discuss or present his or her version and mitigating evidence, may be the first time the employee is even aware that certain allegations have arisen or that an investigation has been concluded.\n\nThe letter usually states that the employee may contact his union representative. The governing contract language may also state that the union representative will receive a copy of the letter\n\n"}
{"id": "46459373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46459373", "title": "Morton v Douglas Homes Ltd", "text": "Morton v Douglas Homes Ltd\n\nMorton v Douglas Homes Ltd has become an important case in New Zealand as a result of the leaky homes crisis. The salience of the case comes from the fact that Justice Hardie Boys held the directors of a building company personally liable for damage caused by defective foundations. The case has been described in the Court of Appeal as one that, \"certainly provides some authority for the view that the directors of a building company with actual control of particular building operations owe a duty of care, associated with that control.\"\n\nBetween 1976 and 1977 Douglas Homes Ltd built four flats in a residential subdivision in Waimairi County, Canterbury over the top of an old shingle pit. Before construction, \"the directors had been advised by an engineer on the work necessary for the laying of foundations for two flats. One of the directors did not ensure that the engineer’s advice was adhered to in the construction of the foundations of one flat. The other director specifically took charge of the works on the other, and failed to ensure the engineer’s advice was followed.\"\n\nHardie Boys J reasoned that the directors of Douglas Homes Ltd could be held liable for their negligence as, \"The principle of limited liability protects shareholders and not directors, and a director is as responsible for his own torts as any other servant or agent.\"\n\nHardie Boys J held that in establishing whether a director owed a duty of care the test was to be that established in \"Anns v Merton London Borough Council\" [1978] AC 728 and that a duty of care was founded upon the control a director exercised over the operations of a company.\n\nThe ratio has not yet been overturned and as such remains a precedent for holding directors liable for defects in construction that was under their control. In 2006 in \"Dicks v Hobson Swan Construction Limited (in liquidation),\" Justice Baragwanath applied the ratio of the case to hold a director personally liable for a leaky building constructed by his company. In a 2010 appeal from the Weathertight Homes Tribunal Justice Wylie noted the correct approach to searching for directorial liability lay through the test articulated in \"Morton v Douglas Homes Ltd\";\n"}
{"id": "20207989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20207989", "title": "Newlands Labor Act", "text": "Newlands Labor Act\n\nThe Newlands Labor Act, was a 1913 United States federal law, sponsored by Senator Francis G. Newlands of Nevada and drafted by Bureau of Labor Statistics Commissioner Charles Patrick Neill. It created the Board of Mediation and Conciliation (BMC). The BMC was a precursor to today's National Mediation Board (NMB).\n\nIn response to railroad strikes during the 1870s and 1880s, Congress passed the \"Arbitration Act of 1888,\" which authorized the creation of arbitration panels with the power to investigate the causes of labor disputes and to issue non-binding arbitration awards. The Act was a complete failure: only one panel was ever convened under the Act, and that one, in the case of the 1894 Pullman Strike, issued its report only after the strike had been crushed by a federal court injunction backed by federal troops.\n\nCongress attempted to correct these shortcomings in the Erdman Act, passed in 1898. This law likewise provided for voluntary arbitration, but made any award issued by the panel binding and enforceable in federal court. It also outlawed discrimination against employees for union activities, prohibited \"yellow dog\" contracts (employee agrees not to join a union while employed), and required both sides to maintain the status quo during any arbitration proceedings and for three months after an award was issued. The arbitration procedures were rarely used.\n\nPresident Woodrow Wilson signed the Newlands Act on July 15, 1913. The law created the Board of Mediation and Conciliation, which was administered by U.S. Commerce and District Court Judge Martin Augustine Knapp and assisted by U.S. Alabama District Court Judge and Commissioner William Lea Chambers. The Board adjusted and arbitrated disputes between railroad companies and their operating employees, where those disputes threatened to interrupt operation of the carriers to the \"serious detriment of the public interest.\" Voluntary arbitration was also provided for those disputes that could not be settled by mediation.\n\nThe Board was functionally replaced on December 26, 1917, by the creation of the United States Railroad Administration, although it continued to exist with its activities restricted to short-line railroads. In 1920, the Esch–Cummins Act (formally called the \"Transportation Act\") created a new Railroad Labor Board which regulated wages and settled disputes, and permanently replaced the duties of the BMC.\n\nOn May 20, 1926, Congress repealed the Newlands Labor Act and Title III of the Esch–Cummins Act (which pertained to labor disputes), with the enactment of the Railway Labor Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "9319705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9319705", "title": "No-hearing hearings", "text": "No-hearing hearings\n\nNo-Hearing Hearings (2006) is the title of a study published by Professor Mark P. Denbeaux of the Center for Policy and Research at Seton Hall University School of Law, his son Joshua Denbeaux, and prepared under his supervision by research fellows at the center. It was released on October 17, 2006.\n\nThe study analyzes the Combatant Status Review Tribunals (CSRT's) for 393 detainees held on Guantánamo Bay from 2004 to 2005. The study is notable as the first documentation that the OARDEC convened multiple Tribunals for some captives when their original Tribunals determined they should not have been classified as enemy combatants. It generally gained a finding of enemy combatant status on the second hearing, but some panels resisted.\n\nThe Denbeaux represent two detainees at Guantánamo Bay.\n\nThe report was based upon information given by lawyers for 102 Guantanamo detainees and transcripts of the tribunals, which were released by the government under a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit filed by the Associated Press. It analyzes the backgrounds of prisoners at Guantánamo Bay as represented in their files and how the CSRTs determined their status.\n\nFollowing the United States Supreme Court's rulings in \"Rasul v. Bush\" (2004) and \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\" (2004), in which it held that foreign detainees and United States citizens had the right of habeas corpus to challenge their detention before an impartial tribunal, the Bush administration developed the process of Combatant Status Review Tribunals to serve as tribunals for the detainees. In addition, the process was to fulfill the obligation under , to determine if persons were prisoners of war or enemy combatants.\n\nThe Article says:\n\nShould any doubt arise as to whether persons, having committed a belligerent act and having fallen into the hands of the enemy, belong to any of the categories enumerated in Article 4, such persons shall enjoy the protection of the present Convention until such time as their status has been determined by a competent tribunal.\n\nThese hearings were conducted based on the assertion by the Bush administration that detainees in the war in Afghanistan were not eligible for prisoner of war status according to the terms of and therefore designated unlawful combatant. The Bush administration had contended that the Taliban was not a legal government of Afghanistan and al-Qaeda was a terrorist organization.\n\nThe Combatant Status Review Tribunals were held by the United States Department of Defense between July 8, 2004 through March 29, 2005, to provide an impartial tribunal for detainees to challenge their detention. It was developed as an alternative to detainees' taking habeas corpus petitions through the federal court system. The status of each detainee was reviewed to see if they qualified for detention as an enemy combatant.\n\nIn 2006, after the CSRTs were completed, the Center for Policy and Research at Seton Hall University School of Law published \"No-Hearing Hearings\", its review of the process and outcome for detainees based on publicly available materials, some procured under the Associated Press Freedom of Information Act request. The Center study was based on DOD data, some of which was incomplete.\n\n\"No-Hearing Hearings\" contained the following conclusions:\n\nAccording to the Associated Press, Mark Denbeaux said, \"These were not hearings. These were shams;\" he called the hearings a show trial.\n\nWith the Military Commissions Act of 2006 in mind, Andrew Cohen, the legal commentator of the \"Washington Post\", stated:\n\nIf the actual trials of the detainees are as empty and shallow and pre-ordained as were the Status Review Tribunals there is every reason to be mortified at the prospect -- made real by the legislation -- that the federal courts will be frozen out of vital oversight functions. If a regular trial court proceeding were this shoddy, this unwilling to perform a truth-seeking function, this unable to achieve a fair process, the judge presiding over it would be impeached.\n\nNat Hentoff opined in the \"Village Voice\" that the \"conditions of confinement and a total lack of the due process that the Supreme Court ordered in 'Rasul v. Bush' and 'Hamdan v. Rumsfeld'\" makes US government officials culpable for war crimes. His article continues:\n\nCo-author Joshua Denbeaux tells me: 'The government's own documents proved that the government's claims that the prisoners were the 'worst of the worst' was a false and shameful public relations ploy . . . We hope that our reports will convince Congress to amend the Military Commissions Act and restore federal jurisdiction.' If that happens, the prisoners could contest their conditions of confinement, their imprisonment, and their sentences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2110352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110352", "title": "Open music", "text": "Open music\n\nOpen music is music that is shareable, available in \"source code\" form, allows derivative works and is free of cost for non-commercial use. It is the concept of \"open source\" computer software applied to music. However, the non-commercial stipulation associated with Open Music is incompatible with the first section of the Open Source Definition as well as the first freedom put forth in The Free Software Definition (freedom 0). Open Music is one of the general responses to the RIAA's and governmental actions against the music industry and its consumers.\n\n\"Open music\" can be considered a subset of \"free music\" (referring to freedom). The differences of philosophy between advocates of \"open source software\" and \"free software\" have not surfaced in the community of musicians contributing music to the copyleft commons. This may be due to the relatively recent emergence of copyleft music, as well as to the fact that software development generally involves much more collaboration and derivatization than does music production. It is not clear that open collaboration using copyleft licenses provides any significant advantages in music production, as open source advocates commonly argue is the case for software development.\n\nSeveral websites have surfaced to provide musicians with the platform and tools necessary for online music collaboration. Most of these sites promote one or more of the Creative Commons licenses, allowing derivative works and sharing of the finished songs. Early implementations of these collaboration sites relied on threaded discussion forum software and FTP to provide a means for musicians to initiate and discuss projects, and to share multi-track files. More recent and modern sites provide robust project-management features, automatic encoding and compression, online playback streaming, web-based upload and download options, chat, and project-based discussion forums.\n\nThere are plenty of artists that use Creative Commons Licenses. One the most open licence is \"Creative Commons Attribution\" License.\n\n"}
{"id": "59139442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59139442", "title": "Par in parem non habet imperium", "text": "Par in parem non habet imperium\n\nPar in parem non habet imperium (Latin for \"equals have no sovereignty over each other\") is a general principle of international law, forming the basis of state immunity. Because of this principle, a sovereign state cannot excercise jurisdiction over another sovereign state.\n"}
{"id": "16042124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16042124", "title": "People's Court (Soviet Union)", "text": "People's Court (Soviet Union)\n\nA people's court in the late Soviet Union was a court of first instance which handled the majority of civil and criminal offenses, as well as certain administrative law offenses.\n\nThe people's court handled cases by a collegium consisted of a people's judge and two people's assessors. The people's assessors had duties similar to jurors, but decided both any objections and the verdict along with the judge, unlike in most jury systems.\n\nIn early Soviet Russia and Soviet Union the term \"people's court\" was used in reference to any court in the new Soviet legal system which replaced the legal system of the Russian Empire. At these times there were several levels of courts, according to the administrative division of the country: local, \"okrug\", and \"oblast\" people's courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "5739651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5739651", "title": "Reclusión perpetua", "text": "Reclusión perpetua\n\nReclusión perpetua (Spanish, from , meaning \"permanent imprisonment\") is a type of sentence of imprisonment in the Philippines, Argentina, and several other countries.\n\nIn the Philippines, it is one of two sentences, the other being life imprisonment, designed to replace the death penalty and is in legal parlance near-synonymous with life imprisonment. \n\nHowever, there are several important distinctions between the two terms:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1738786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1738786", "title": "Restitutio ad integrum", "text": "Restitutio ad integrum\n\nRestitutio ad integrum or restitutio in integrum is a Latin term which means restoration to original condition. It is one of the primary guiding principles behind the awarding of damages in common law negligence claims. The general rule, as the principle implies, is that the amount of compensation awarded should put the successful plaintiff in the position he or she would have been had the tortious action not been committed. Thus the plaintiff should clearly be awarded damages for direct expenses such as medical bills and property repairs and the loss of future earnings attributable to the injury (which often involves difficult speculation about the future career and promotion prospects).\n\nAlthough monetary compensation cannot be directly equated with physical deprivation it is generally accepted that compensation should also be awarded for loss of amenities, reflecting the decrease in expected standard of living due to any injury suffered and pain and suffering. Damages awards in these categories are justified by the restitutio principle as monetary compensation provides the most practicable way of redressing the deprivation caused by physical injury.\n\nThe expression \"restitutio in integrum\" is also used in patent law, namely in the European Patent Convention (EPC), and refers to a means of redress available to an applicant or patentee who has failed to meet a time limit in spite of exercising \"all due care required by the circumstances\" (). If the request for \"restitutio in integrum\" is accepted, the applicant or patentee is re-established in its rights, as if the time limit had been duly met.\n\nAccording to decision G 1/86 of the Enlarged Board of Appeal of the European Patent Office, other parties such as opponents are not barred from the \"restitutio in integrum\" by principle. For instance, if an opponent fails to file the statement of grounds for appeal in spite of all due care, after having duly filed the notice of appeal, \"restitutio\" remedies will be available to him or her.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31201071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31201071", "title": "Russian Organization for Intellectual Property", "text": "Russian Organization for Intellectual Property\n\nThe Russian Organization for Intellectual Property VOIS () is collective management society for neighboring rights established by Russian performers and labels in 2008.\n\nToday VOIS unites more than 3,500 performers and hundreds of record-labels in different music styles.\n\nIn 2009 Rosohrankultura (the Ministry of Culture Department) accredited VOIS as the sole society to collect and distribute remuneration for related rights owners within the territory of the Russian Federation. It means that only VOIS has the right to act on behalf of an unlimited number of performers and phonogram producers, collect and distribute money to the right-owners.\n\nIn everyday activity VOIS concludes contracts with music users both in public sphere and broadcasting.\n\nThe main goals of VOIS are:\n\nTotal amount of collected remuneration in 2012 reached about 531,7 mln. Rub.\n\n"}
{"id": "26784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26784", "title": "Statutory law", "text": "Statutory law\n\nStatutory law or statute law is written law set down by a body of legislature or by a singular legislator (in the case of absolute monarchy). This is as opposed to oral or customary law; or regulatory law promulgated by the executive or common law of the judiciary. \nStatutes may originate with national, state legislatures or local municipalities.\n\nThe term codified law refers to statutes that have been organized (\"codified\") by subject matter; in this narrower sense, some but not all statutes are considered \"codified.\" The entire body of codified statute is referred to as a \"code,\" such as the United States Code, the Ohio Revised Code or the Code of Canon Law. The substantive provisions of the Act could be codified (arranged by subject matter) in one or more titles of the United States Code while the provisions of the law that have not reached their \"effective date\" (remaining uncodified) would be available by reference to the United States Statutes at Large. Another meaning of \"codified law\" is a statute that takes the common law in a certain area of the law and puts it in statute or code form.\n\nAnother example of statutes that are not typically codified is a \"private law\" that may originate as a private bill, a law affecting only one person or a small group of persons. An example was divorce in Canada prior to the passage of the Divorce Act of 1968. It was possible to obtain a legislative divorce in by application to the Senate of Canada, which reviewed and investigated petitions for divorce, which would then be voted upon by the Senate and subsequently made into law. \n\nIn the United Kingdom Parliament, private bills were used in the nineteenth century to create corporations, grant monopolies and give individuals attention to be more fully considered by the parliament. The government may also seek to have a bill introduced \"unofficially\" by a backbencher so as not to create a public scandal; such bills may also be introduced by the loyal opposition — members of the opposition party or parties. Sometimes a private member's bill may also have private bill aspects, in such case the proposed legislation is called a hybrid bill.\n\nIn Canon Law, private law is called \"particular law.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1822221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1822221", "title": "Terrorism Risk Insurance Act", "text": "Terrorism Risk Insurance Act\n\nThe Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) (, ) is a United States federal law signed into law by President George W. Bush on November 26, 2002. The Act created a federal \"backstop\" for insurance claims related to acts of terrorism. The Act \"provides for a transparent system of shared public and private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism.\" The Act was originally set to expire December 31, 2005, was extended for two years in December 2005, and was extended again on December 26, 2007. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act expired on December 31, 2014.\n\nOn January 7, 2015 the House of Representatives voted 416-5 to approve the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, (, ) extending the TRIA through the year 2020. The Senate approved the extension the day after by a vote of 93-4. On January 12, 2015, President Barack Obama signed the extension into law.TRIA was extended for a third time under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (TRIPRA of 2015) and is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.\n\nBefore the September 11 attacks, business insurers generally neither charged for nor specifically excluded terrorism coverage. The scope of the 9/11 attacks and the resulting $40 billion estimated insured loss changed perceptions dramatically. It was the worst terrorist attack on record for both property and fatalities and the worst international attack on American soil since the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, as nearly 3,000 people lost their lives in New York City, Washington, D.C., and Stonycreek Township near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.\n\nMuch of the financial cost from the 9/11 attacks fell on reinsurers (that further spread the risk assumed by primary insurers). Unable to accurately model or price terrorism exposures, reinsurers largely withdrew from the market for terrorism coverage. Without reinsurance, primary insurers were then compelled to exclude terrorism. Most state insurance regulators approved terrorism exclusions for use by primary insurers.\n\nMany businesses were not able to purchase insurance protection against future terrorist attacks. This situation was a serious threat to industries where lenders and investors required terrorism protection for their investments. Real estate, transportation, construction, energy, and utility sectors of the economy were vulnerable, creating broader threats to the national economy.\n\nCongress responded by enacting TRIA in November 2002 to provide a government reinsurance backstop in case of large-scale terrorist attacks, requiring that business insurers offer terrorism coverage for the types of insurance included in the act. Congress extended and amended TRIA in December 2005 and December 2007.\n\nFollowing enactment of the 2007 TRIA extension, the Congressional Budget Office forecast a net federal budget cost of $0 for TRIA through 2017. \"Under TRIA, the federal government would help insurers cover losses in the event of a terrorist attack under certain conditions, and would also impose assessments on the insurance industry to recover all or a portion of the federal payments.\" \n\nThe act expired on December 31, 2014, but was renewed at the start of the next congress, with President Barack Obama signing the extension on January 12, 2015. Many experts warn that \"construction projects could be stalled and commercial loans on shopping malls, utilities and skyscrapers could be in jeopardy.\" In addition, according to the Baltimore Sun, the National Football League denied rumors that it would cancel the Super Bowl over the issue.\n\nThe Secretary of the Treasury oversees the Terrorism Insurance Program, with the assistance of the Federal Insurance Office. The Secretary has authority to establish regulations and procedures to implement TRIA.\n\nThe term \"act of terrorism\" is defined in the act as: any act certified by the Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and Attorney General, to be an act that is dangerous to human life, property, or infrastructure and to have resulted in damage within the U.S. (or outside the U.S. in the case of a U.S.-flagged vessel, aircraft or premises of a U.S. mission). It must be committed as part of an effort to coerce U.S. civilians or to influence either policy or conduct of the U.S. Government through coercion. The definition includes both foreign and domestic terrorists. The Secretary may not delegate this certification authority and his or her decision to either certify or not certify an act of terrorism is not subject to judicial review.\n\nTRIA created a U.S. government reinsurance facility to provide reinsurance coverage to insurance companies following a declared terrorism event. TRIA is a short-term measure designed to help the insurance market recover from 9/11 and develop solutions to insuring terrorism.\n\nTRIA established the Federal Terrorism Insurance Program to administer a system of shared public/private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism in order to protect consumers and create transitional period for private insurance markets to stabilize\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6165918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6165918", "title": "The Golf Specialist", "text": "The Golf Specialist\n\nThe Golf Specialist is a 1930 comedy short subject from RKO Pictures, starring W. C. Fields. It was his first talkie. The film was shot in Fort Lee, New Jersey when many early film studios in America's first motion picture industry were based there in the early part of the 20th century.\n\nThe film features lines such as \"I would never hit a woman, not even my own mother\" and \"Stand clear and keep your eye on the ball\", a line Fields also used in the golf scene in \"The Dentist\" (1932). Fields reprised the entire golf scene in \"You're Telling Me!\" (1934).\n\nIn a Florida hotel, the House Detective's wife (Shirley Grey) likes to flirt with other men. The House Detective (John Dunsmuir) catches her flirting with a man, and he bodily throws him out.\n\nDeep Sea McGurk (William Black) comes in and asks the Desk Clerk (Johnny Kane) for J. Effingham Bellweather, but he is not in. McGurk dictates a note for the Desk Clerk to give to Bellweather that he wants to collect the money that is owed to him. \n\nBellweather (W. C. Fields) enters, and the Desk Clerk gives him the note from McGurk, which he tears up. After brief encounters with a bratty little girl (Naomi Casey) and the House Detective (John Dunsmuir), Bellweather offers to teach the Detective's Wife how to play golf.\n\nThe two of them and their Caddy (Allen Wood) go out to the golf course, but Bellweather never gets to hit the ball. He is continuously interrupted by such distractions as the incompetent Caddy's squeaking shoes, the wind blowing papers into his path, and accidentally stepping into a pie that the Caddy had brought.\n\nFinally, the Sheriff and the House Detective come out to the course to arrest con artist Bellweather for a list of absurd crimes (including \"eating spaghetti in public\", \"jumping board bill in seventeen lunatic asylums\", \"failure to pay installments on a strait-jacket\", and \"possessing a skunk\"); the police put handcuffs on him just as he's showing the Detective's Wife the importance of keeping the wrists close together while gripping the club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29921913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29921913", "title": "Thomas Wight", "text": "Thomas Wight\n\nThomas Wight (died ca. 1608) was a bookseller, publisher and draper in London. Wight published many important books, including many of the earliest law books in English.\n\nTogether with his father, the draper John Wight, he published seven editions of William Bourne's book \"A Regiment for the Sea\", the first purely English navigational text.\n\nBy time Wight published Bourne's book, he was primarily a publisher, and became part of a monopoly for printing law books in 1599. He published many of the first printed English law books, including Fulbeck (1600), discussing study methods for law students, techniques for arguing a case, and suggestions for further reading. Pulton (1600), also published by Wight the same year, was the first book to attempt to summarise English criminal law. Fulbecke (1602) was one of the first books on international law. Saint German (1604) was first published in Latin in 1523, and attempts to describe English law through a dialogue between a churchman and a student of English common law. It ponders the nature of law, its religious and moral standards, and jurisdiction of Parliament. Manwood (1598) summarises the laws of the forest, known as \"Carta de Foresta\"; this was of key interest to English gentlemen, and went through numerous reprintings. Kitchin (1598) described manorial law, land law, and agrarian law.\n\nWight published copies of the \"Yearbooks\", notes by law students which were the earliest English legal reports dating back to the eleventh century.\n\nWight was also a prominent figure in the early discussions of copyright law. \nEdmund Weaver, another famous London book publisher and bookseller, started as Wight's apprentice, and took over the business when Wight died.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35534230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35534230", "title": "TitleVest", "text": "TitleVest\n\nTitleVest Agency, LLC is a national title insurance agency headquartered on Wall Street in New York, NY. The company offers a wide range of property and title-related services and handles all transaction types, from large commercial transactions to residential purchases and mortgage refinances. In March 2015, TitleVest was acquired by First American Title Insurance Company, the largest subsidiary of First American Financial Corporation (NYSE: FAF ).\n\nTitleVest has historically been and continues to be a policy-issuing agent for the largest title insurance underwriters in the United States. In addition to First American Title Insurance Company of New York, TitleVest also issues policies for Chicago Title Insurance Company, Fidelity National Title Insurance Company, Old Republic National Title Insurance Company, Stewart Title Insurance Company, and Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company.\n\nIn 2010, TitleVest was listed in \"Inc.\" magazine's Inc. 5000, the magazine's annual list of the 5000 fastest-growing, private companies in the United States. Additionally, TitleVest has been named Best Title Agency by readers of the New York Law Journal in the publication's 2013, 2014 and 2015 Reader Rankings survey \n\nTitleVest established and maintains New York City’s largest digital library of condominium and cooperative offering plans — books containing the history of coop or condo residences as well as their rules and regulations — and currently holds more than 5,000 offering plans in its online database.\n\nTitleVest has long been committed to leading the industry in innovative technology. ACRISasap™, for which the company was awarded a U.S. Patent, streamlines the creation of NYC ACRIS E-Tax forms, and Interactive Online Report™ (IOR) streamlines the title review and closing process.\n\nIn July 2010, TitleVest was awarded a U.S. Patent for the technology behind its ACRIS\"asap\" service, which significantly reduces the amount of time involved in process E-Tax forms in ACRIS (Automated City Register Information System), a system for searching property records and viewing document images for NYC from 1966 to the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "30334406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30334406", "title": "Title 51 of the United States Code", "text": "Title 51 of the United States Code\n\nTitle 51 of the United States Code (51 U.S.C.), entitled National and Commercial Space Programs, is the compilation of the general laws regarding space programs. It was promulgated by U.S. President Barack Obama on December 18, 2010 when he signed PL 111-314 () into law.\n\nSince the 1940s, many statutes have been enacted relating to national and commercial space programs. In the U.S. Code, some of these statutes are codified in Title 15, \"Commerce and Trade\", Title 42, \"The Public Health and Welfare\" and Title 49, \"Transportation\". No single title had previously existed in the U.S. Code for space programs, as the Code was established in 1926, before the Space Age.\n\nTitle 51 does not modify or repeal existing programs. Rather, it restates existing law in a manner that adheres to the policy, intent and purpose of the original laws, whilst improving the organizational structure of the law and removing imperfections.\n\nTitle 51 was prepared by the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the United States House of Representatives, in accordance with .\n\n"}
{"id": "38050830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38050830", "title": "Treaty of Darin", "text": "Treaty of Darin\n\nThe Treaty of Darin, or the Darin Pact, of 1915 was between the United Kingdom and Abdul-Aziz Al Saud (sometimes called \"Ibn Saud\") ruler of Nejd, who would go on to found the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932.\n\nThe Treaty was signed at Darin, on the island of Tarut on 26 December 1915 by Abdul-Aziz and Sir Percy Cox on behalf of the British Government.\n\nThe Treaty made the lands of the House of Saud a British protectorate and attempted to define its boundaries. The British aim of the treaty was to guarantee the sovereignty of Kuwait, Qatar and the Trucial States. Abdul-Aziz agreed not to attack British protectorates, but gave no undertaking that he would not attack the Sharif of Mecca\n\nAlso, he agreed to enter the war against the Ottoman Empire (the Middle Eastern theatre of World War I) as an ally of Britain.\n\nThe Treaty was the first to give international recognition to the fledgling Saudi state. Also, for the first time in Nejdi history the concept of negotiated borders had been introduced. Additionally, the British aim was to secure its Persian Gulf protectorates, but the treaty had the unintended consequence of legitimising Saudi control in the adjacent areas. The Treaty was superseded by the Treaty of Jeddah (1927).\n"}
{"id": "31698136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31698136", "title": "Venpet–Venoil collision", "text": "Venpet–Venoil collision\n\nThe \"Venpet\"–\"Venoil\" collision was a maritime accident involving sister supertankers; the Liberian-registered \"Venoil\" and \"Venpet\", in dense fog off the coast of South Africa on 16 December 1977. The tankers were travelling in opposite directions; the \"Venoil\" fully laden with over 250,000 tonnes of crude oil bound for Nova Scotia and the \"Venpet\", travelling in ballast, headed for Kharg Island, Iran. The \"Venoil\" ploughed into the \"Venpet\", eventually leading to the spilling of approximately 26,600–30,500 tonnes of crude oil.\n\nBoth tankers were constructed in Nagasaki, Japan by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd, work beginning on the \"Venoil\" in October 1972 and the \"Venpet\" in January 1973. The vessels were completed in March and June 1973 respectively at the cost of approximately $28m each. Each vessel was more than 330,000 deadweight (DWT) which, at the time, classified them as Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCCs). The current classification for vessels over 300,000 DWT is Ultra Large Crude Carriers (ULCC).\n\nThe ships met on the morning of 16 December 1977. The \"Venoil\" was en route to Nova Scotia from the Iranian oil terminal at Kharg Island with between 250,000 and 307,000 tonnes of crude oil. The \"Venpet\" was in ballast on a reciprocal course to Kharg Island from Nova Scotia, where she had already unloaded her cargo. Under dense fog, which reduced visibility to less than , both ships manoeuvred in the same direction in an attempt to increase their distance from one another and avoid collision. \n\nThe bow of the \"Venoil\" collided into the side of the \"Venpet\", creating a hole deep and long. Both vessels caught fire, but did not explode because of their inert gas systems – the flames rising into the air and the resulting smoke visible for up to around. Both vessels had been travelling at around .\n\nThe collision occurred approximately off the southern coast of South Africa between Plettenberg Bay and Cape St. Francis. of bunker oil from \"Venpet's\" forward fuel tank and of crude oil from two of \"Venoil's\" storage tanks were spilled, for a total of , most of which was consumed by the flames; patches of emulsified oil created a wide slick, part of which impacted over of the South African shoreline from Plettenberg Bay to Still Bay. Another estimate concludes the \"Venpet\" lost of bunker fuel oil, and the \"Venoil\" lost of heavy crude oil and of bunker fuel oil, for a total of .\n\nThe majority of the crew aboard the \"Venoil\" managed to launch a lifeboat; although thirteen men who had been trapped by the flames were rescued by helicopter. Two men lost their lives in the incident. Two British merchant ships, the bulk carrier \"Jedforest\" and the \"Clan Menzies\" rescued the remaining crews of the \"Venoil\" and \"Venpet\" respectively. The vessels were abandoned and initially drifted towards the coast as their fires eventually went out. They were towed out towards the Agulhas Current to prevent them grounding on the coastline as well as ensuring that any further release of oil would be carried away from the coastline.\n\nThe official investigation published in November 1985 by the Liberian marine board concluded that the collision was caused due to not maintaining a proper radar watch. Though both vessels were observing each other on the radar, they had accepted a low radar CPA of 1 mile despite the poor visibility and without taking into consideration errors of radar, especially in range and bearing.\n\nBoth vessels were towed into Algoa Bay for repairs; the \"Venpet\" on 24 December and the \"Venoil\" on 1 January 1978. The latter had drifted southwest of the coast in the Agulhas Current. The \"Venoil\"'s remaining crude oil was transferred to the tanker \"Litiopa\" before she eventually sailed to Nova Scotia. The damaged ships were sailed onto shipyards at Sasebo and Nagasaki for extensive repairs.\n\nThe \"Venoil\" underwent two name changes, becoming \"Resolute\" in 1981 and \"Opportunity\" in 1983. She was sailed to Ulsan, South Korea for scrapping in October 1984. Her sister \"Venpet\" was changed to \"Alexander The Great\" in 1980. In June 1984, she was hit by an Iraqi Exocet missile whilst moored at the Kharg Island oil terminal. The large scale of damage led to her scrapping, which occurred in Kaohsiung, Taiwan in the October of that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "44457464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44457464", "title": "Venticool", "text": "Venticool\n\nventicool is an international platform formed in 2012 focusing on ventilative cooling issues, with the overall goal to \"mobilize the ventilative cooling potential in terms of energy conservation, health, and comfort\".\n\nWithin this platform ventilative cooling refers to the use of ventilation strategies to cool indoor spaces. The most common technique is the use of increased ventilation airflow rates but other technologies may be considered as well.\n\nThe creation of the platform was triggered by increasing concerns for overheating risks and thermal comfort in low-energy buildings, while ventilative cooling strategies remain poorly considered in building regulations and scarcely well-implemented in practice. These concerns are reinforced in particular by the 2020 objectives of the European Union and the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD).\n\nThe platform’s main activities focus on communication, networking and awareness raising. They include the organization of events: conferences, workshops and webinars, as well as the production of publications: papers, reports, guidebooks etc.\n\nventicool is the key partner in the communication and dissemination activities of the Annex 62 ‘ventilative cooling’ research project of the ‘Energy in Buildings and Communities Programme (EBC)’ of the International Energy Agency (IEA), an international collaborative project on ventilative cooling with a four-year working phase (2014–2018). The main aim of Annex 62 is to make ventilative cooling an attractive and energy efficient cooling solution to avoid overheating in both new and renovated buildings.\n\nventicool also cooperates with the IEA-EBC’s Annex 5: “Air Infiltration and Ventilation Centre (AIVC)”, which aims to provide reliable reference information on research and development in the fields of air infiltration and ventilation.\n\nThe international platform for ventilative cooling- venticool was inaugurated in October 2012 during the 33rd AIVC Conference in Copenhagen. The platform is facilitated by the International Network for Information on Ventilation and Energy Performance- INIVE EEIG, which is a registered European Economic Interest Grouping (EEIG) whose members include building research centres in Europe. Since then, the platform has been financially and/or technically supported by its partners: AGORIA-naventa, ES-SO, VELUX, Wienerberger and WindowMaster.\n\nventicool also collaborates with organizations that hold significant experience and/or are well identified in the field of ventilation and thermal comfort, like AIVC, CIBSE nvg and REHVA.\n\nThe target group of venticool ranges from European, national and regional government policy makers, stakeholders’ organizations, designers, engineers, builders, HVAC installers to research, technical and training centres.\n\nventicool publishes a newsletter twice a year with information on the latest developments on ventilative cooling including policy issues, events, innovative concepts, standardization, case studies and research activities.\n\nAnnual Conference. Since 2013, venticool holds a joint annual conference together with the Air Infiltration and Ventilation Centre and the TightVent Europe platform in September/October in one of the AIVC participating countries, with a track devoted to ventilative cooling. \n\nAt the 2012 AIVC Conference (the official launch of the platform), the following topical sessions were organized:\nAt the 2013 conference, the following topical sessions were organised:\n\nAt the 2014 conference, the following topical sessions were organised:\n\nAt the 2015 conference,the following topical sessions were organised:\n\nAt the 2017 conference, the following topical sessions were organized:\n\nWorkshops & Webinars. venticool also organizes workshops and webinars focused on specific topics in relevance to ventilative cooling and/or current work developed by the IEA EBC Annex 62.\n\n"}
{"id": "24272821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24272821", "title": "Wahid Khalil Baroud", "text": "Wahid Khalil Baroud\n\nAn alleged member of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), Wahid Khalil Baroud (وحيد خليل بارود) was arrested in Mississauga, Ontario in 1994 after it was claimed that he served as a bodyguard to Yasser Arafat.\n\nIn 1991, Baroud took his wife and three children to Greece, before flying into Pearson International Airport with forged Egyptian passports, and applying for Canadian residency. The family, which would grow with the births in Canada of two more children, claimed to be Israeli, but Baroud acknowledged his time in Fatah, noting that he had never been involved in any terrorism. He claimed to be defecting because he refused to follow an order to travel to Saudi Arabia's border with Iraqi-controlled Kuwait, where some allege he had been ordered to be killed by the PLO authorities. He stated that, as a Palestinian, he refused to be a party to another occupying power like Saddam Hussein.\n\nHe was held in detention for 41 days before it was determined he was not a threat, and he was subsequently released.\n\nThree years later, after he ostensibly missed two immigration hearings which he claims to have never received notice of, a warrant was issued and he was declared a threat to national security under the auspice that he had served in Force 17 as a bodyguard to Arafat, and was stationed in Syria, Lebanon, Libya and Greece and engaged in terrorism. He was arrested on a security certificate signed by Immigration Minister Sergio Marchi and Solicitor General Herb Gray on June 6, 1994, but Federal Court of Canada judge Pierre Denault ruled that the government was wrong in suggesting it had evidence Baroud was involved in terrorism. Baroud argued that section 40.1 of the Immigration Act was unconstitutional and breached the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\nWhen the courts nevertheless upheld his deportation, he sought leave to appeal to the Supreme Court claiming that the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) had tried to convince him to become an informant and turned against him when he refused, but was denied on June 15.\n\n\"Depressed and discouraged\" at his long time spent in the Don Jail, Baroud agreed to voluntarily drop his appeals and allow himself to be removed from Canada and was subsequently moved to Toronto West Detention Centre.\n\nHis wife and three eldest children were granted refugee status in Canada. Since he was a stateless Palestinian, there was no country to which he could be safely deported, and his wife ended up acquiring an entry visa for him to Algeria, and he was put on a plane towards Algeria through Switzerland on July 5, but returned to Canada a week later after Algerian authorities refused to let him enter. It was later revealed that his Canadian escorts had taken him to Casablanca hoping to leave him in Morocco; but while they were themselves \"mistakenly left behind\" in the North African country, Baroud had simply booked himself a plane back to Canada. In December 1995, his wife secured a 9-month visa for him to the Sudan, and Canada put him on a plane towards the country - however, Sudan refused to accept him when they learned of the case.\n\nHe was forced to live in airports for eight months, shuttling between countries.\n\nSome sources suggest he ended up in Syria. Baroud later flew to Romania where he lived in the airport for a number of months before finding his way to Switzerland where he appealed to the Supreme Court for the right to remain. He finally settled in Belgium and he is welcomed as a Belgian citizen.\n\n"}
