{"id": "7544253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7544253", "title": "1986 Central American and Caribbean Games", "text": "1986 Central American and Caribbean Games\n\nThe 15th Central American and Caribbean Games were held in Santiago de los Caballeros in the Dominican Republic from June 24 to July 5, 1986, and included 2.963 athletes from 25 nations.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30971764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30971764", "title": "2011 Omani protests", "text": "2011 Omani protests\n\nThe 2011 Omani protests were a series of protests in the Persian Gulf country of Oman that occurred as part of the revolutionary wave popularly known as the \"Arab Spring\".\n\nThe protesters demanded salary increases, lower living costs, the creation of more jobs and a reduction in corruption. Protests in Sohar, Oman's fifth-largest city, centered on the Globe Roundabout. The Sultan's responses included the dismissal of a third of the governing cabinet.\n\nProtesters demanded salary increases and lower costs of living. On 20 February 2011, protesters welcomed a move by the government to increase the minimum wage. The wage increase targets Omani workers in the private sector. Public sector Omani employees have received wage increases in the past, but the private sector was so far overlooked. The Government of Oman raised minimum wages for an estimated 150,000 private sector employees to $520 from $364 a month. As protests continued in Sohar the demands were still jobs and political reforms. The protesters also want more jobs, freedom of expression, less government control over the media, political reforms, better living conditions, an abolition of taxes and the trial of all ministers.\n\nProtesters in Muscat also demanded cabinet ministers not serve more than four years. In several other protests, Omanis furthered their demands by calling for a reduction of foreign workers in order to provide more jobs for Omani citizens by private companies.\n\nAbout 200 protesters marched on 17 January demanding salary increases and lower costs of living. The protest surprised international observers, who have viewed Oman as a \"politically stable and sleepy country.\" Renewed protests termed as the \"Green March\", occurred on 18 February, inspired by the serious unrest in fellow Gulf state Bahrain. 350 people marched, demanding an end to corruption and better distribution of oil revenue. The protesters also carried signs with slogans of support for the Sultan. Police did not intervene in the gathering, the petition calling for the reforms will be handed to Oman's Sultan Qaboos.\n\nOn 1 March, about 50 protesters held a sit-in as well outside the Consultative Assembly to demand political reform and an end to corruption. The group later grew to over 400 people. Protesters also continued to demand the Consultative Assembly be turned into a \"real parliament.\" The protests were reported to be \"peaceful, well-organised and very disciplined.\" Tents had been set up with separate accommodations for men and women. Placards with protest slogans had also been translated into English, French and German for the international media.\n\nOn 2 April, dozens of protesters staged a sit-in in Muscat, outside the chief prosecutor's office, to demand probes into alleged state abuses after clashes with security forces a day earlier.\n\nOn 26 February, nearly 500 protesters gathered around a shopping mall in the industrial city of Sohar, 230 kilometres from the capital Muscat. The protesters stopped traffic and shoppers around the mall premises. The shops in the area including the mall remained closed on 27 February as well.\n\nOn 27 February, protesters returned in Sohar for a second day, hurling stones at security forces who had cordoned them off. The Royal Oman Police eventually used tear gas and rubber bullets to contain and disperse the protesters. According to witnesses, two protesters were killed.\n\nOn 28 February, protesters looted and burned a hypermarket in Sohar. The demonstrators also blocked the entrance to Sohar port, where 160,000 barrels of oil derived products are exported. On 1 March protests continued for a fourth day as crowds in Sohar congregated at the Globe Roundabout. Eventually, the Omani army, backed by tanks, peacefully dispersed protesters blocking the Sohar port and cleared them from the main coastal highway linking Muscat to Sohar. The troops later pulled back, though five armoured vehicles continued to watch the square. The Globe Roundabout had been the site of up to 2,000 demonstrators over the past three days.\n\nAfter reports of multiple deaths, the minister of health of Oman claimed only one person had been killed and 20 wounded.\n\nA \"Facebook\" entitled \"March 2 Uprising for Dignity and Freedom\" called for further protests in all parts of Oman, beginning on 2 March, and it attracted more than 2,300 users. However, protests only occurred at the Globe Roundabout in Sohar with a smaller crowd of 50 protesters who blockaded the area. Some people had organised community policing groups to prevent more damage. The army also issued a red alert to vacate the area or threatened action. The 'Sohar Citizen Committee' as it is called has started giving out numbers of its core members to people who can call upon it in case of an emergency or riots attack.\n\nOn 30 March, The Director of Public Prosecutions issued a statement saying that complaints were filed by some citizens about acts of rioting, vandalism and breach of public order, destruction of public and private properties, obstructing business transactions and hindering easy movement of people on the streets. Based on these complaints, he gave orders to arrest and clear all the protesters from the Globe Roundabout. The Omani army then stormed the Globe Roundabout clearing blockades and arresting a number of the protesters.\n\nOn 1 April, following Friday prayers, hundreds of protesters took to streets demanding the release of people detained in the Public Prosecution crackdowns. The military has also stationed units around government offices and other key buildings in the city. At least one person was reported to have been killed in clashes between police and demonstrators The Public Prosecutor said that the army responded to the protests which had initially started off as a demonstration demanding the release of over 100 protesters detained by authorities three days before but he alleged that later involved knives and stones amidst violence that led to the arrests of 50–60 of the demonstrators.\nSix others were also badly injured in the incident which had initially started off as a peaceful demonstration demanding the release of over 100 protesters detained by authorities three days before.\n\nOn 8 April, the Public Prosecutor's office release details and photographs of those who had been arrested. The same day, though rumours had abounded that a large number of protesters, including women and children, would take to the streets of Sohar after Friday prayers, there were no reports of protests in the local media after the Omani Army took control of the city setting-up multiple checkpoints and making arrests of protest leaders.\n\nOn 5 March, protests in the country have spread to Haima, a key oil region about southwest of the capital Muscat, with oil workers staging a sit-in and calling for more government investment in the area. There were also protests in Ibri during the month.\n\nOn 6 May, protesters returned to the streets in Salalah after Friday prayers calling for democratic reform and an end to corruption. The activists and protesters have reiterated their demands for the sacked ministers to be investigated. This was the fourth consecutive Friday to be marked by protests in Salalah. Police broke up a protest camp in Salalah on 12 May, arresting possibly over 100 demonstrators. Several dozen more protesters were attacked by baton-wielding gendarmes and arrested the next day and early into the morning of 14 May while they were demanding jobs and higher pay. The \"Muscat Daily\" reported that protesters clashed with the army in Salalah's central Al Nahda Street following the first wave of arrests. The army then fired into the air and also used tear gas to disperse the stone-throwing crowds.\n\nThere were also peaceful protests in various colleges in Oman demanding the reducing of pass grades in some colleges. It had affected the classes in those colleges.\n\nOn 1 March a rally was organised in Muscat to show support for the Sultan and his government. There were accusations that the government itself organised the rally, though at least some support was a \"part genuine outpouring of affection for the sultan.\" However, multiple sms were sent from the state-owned Omantel network during the nights preceding the protests, urging loyalists to attend.\n\nThere were also continuous reports, mostly from Twitter, that supporters of the government drove around Muscat in large motorcades of up to 200 cars.\n\nIn early March, rallies in support of the Sultan continued to be staged.\n\nThe Sultan of Oman cancelled a visit to India as a result of the unrest in the Arab world.\n\nOn 26 February, the sultan reshuffled the cabinet in response to recent protests. The 84-member Shura council is elected by voters across 61 districts, but works in a purely advisory capacity and has no legislative powers. The cabinet reshuffle saw Mohammed bin Nasser al-Khasibi named commerce and industry minister, Hamoud bin Faisal al-Bousaidi as civil service minister and Madiha bint Ahmed bin Nasser as education minister. Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdullah al-Harthy, the outgoing civil service minister, was appointed to head the environment ministry, while Maqboul bin Ali bin Sultan will be the new transport minister and Mohsen bin Mohammed al-Sheikh becomes tourism minister. Protesters had called upon the Sultan to remove Maqbool Bin Ali Bin Sultan from the post of commerce minister as they viewed him as corrupt and inadequate for the task of running the ministry. The Sultan also announced benefits for the students of Higher College of Technology. The students whose homes are 100 km away from the place of study, will be now given 90 Omani rial allowances while those living at a less than 100-km distance would get 25-rial allowance. The Royal decree issued stated the reason for the rise in these stipends as \"to achieve further development and provide a decent living.\"\n\nThe Diwan of Royal Court, on the orders of the sultan, decided to set up an independent authority for consumer protection in the country. It has also been decided to study the possibility of establishing cooperative societies in the country which does not allow formation of any political parties, unions, etc. whatsoever. There are also confirmed plans to reduce the percentage contribution of civil servants in the Civil Employees Pension Fund from eight percent to seven percent of the monthly basic salary, adding to it 75 percent of the housing, electricity and water allowances.\n\nOn 28 February, Sultan Qaboos pledged to create 50,000 government jobs, provide a monthly benefit of $390 to the unemployed and ordered a committee to draft proposals for boosting the power of an elected council that advises him on state affairs. He also promised that a legislative council would be given more powers. On 5 March, Sultan Qaboos replaced two more ministers. Khaled bin Hilal bin Saud al-Busaidi replaced Sayed Ali bin Hmud al-Busaidi as a minister of the royal court and Sultan bin Mohammed al-Numani replaced General Ali bin Majid al-Maamari as minister in the sultan's office.\n\nOn 7 March, Sultan Qaboos issued eight royal decrees including, reshuffling once again the council of ministers and allowing for the formation of a state audit committee. Royal Decree No 38/2011 abolished the Ministry of National Economy and states that a committee shall be formed by the Council of Ministers to manage the distribution of its prerogatives, allocations, assets and employees. The ministry had been targeted by protesters for being corrupt and inefficient. On 13 March, a royal decree was announced granting \"legislative and regulatory powers\" to the parliament, which had previously only been a consultative body. The next day he fired Lieutenant General Malek Bin Sulaiman Al Ma'amari as Inspector General of the Police and Customs. On 15 March, he also issued further royal decrees to add a \"cost of living allowance\" to all military and security apparatus as well as all government units in Oman. The Sultan also give orders for raising the Social Insurance Pension by 100% for all the 51,442 persons registered at the Social Development Ministry.\nThe ruling council issued a statement that condemned the \"sabotage\" and added that peaceful demonstrations were within \"the legal rights of citizens\".\n\nOther responses included creating of a second public university, establishing the first Islamic bank in the region and approving Marriage Fund utility.\n\nThe popular response to the actions of Qaboos was said to be positive, particularly in light of the decision to grant the Council of Oman more powers. Hussain Al Abry, who was a lone protester against Oman Television for four days, said that \"Sixty to 80 percent of demands have already been met so there is no reason to continue protesting.\"\n\nThe Muscat Securities Market's main index fell 4.9 percent. Neighbouring United Arab Emirates' two main stock markets in Dubai and Abu Dhabi also fell as the instability moved to the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council.\n\nThe Sohar Industrial Port Company said that the local port's functions were never disrupted by more than a few hours during periods of traffic problems caused by the protests.\n\n Gulf Cooperation Council members agreed to provide Oman with an aid plan similar to the Marshall plan, consisting of $10 billion aimed at upgrading housing and infrastructure over a period of 10 years. They also agreed that they would give more preference to GCC-member state nationals while hiring individuals.\n\n – The embassy issued a notice to all their citizens currently residing in Oman (estimated at more than 300,000) to register themselves with the embassy. It also requested them to avoid taking part in any pro-government or anti-government rallies and steer clear of any kind of trouble.\n\n – Queen Beatrix had originally postponed a state visit to Oman amidst the crisis. The visit later went ahead but was downgraded to a private visit amidst several political parties expressing concern the royal could be seen as supportive of the unelected sultan. Parliament will debate the matter on Tuesday.\n\nAmnesty International has requested and urged the Omani government to show restraint while dealing with protesters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43831162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43831162", "title": "2014 Malta migrant shipwreck", "text": "2014 Malta migrant shipwreck\n\nIn September 2014, it was announced by the International Organization for Migration that a ship sank off the Malta coast on September 11, 2014, killing around 500 migrants. There were nine survivors. The passengers on board were from Syria, Palestine, Egypt and Sudan. The ship left Damietta, Egypt, on September 6 and sank five days later on September 11. Two Palestinian survivors of the wreck accuse the traffickers of intentionally sinking the vessel after the refugees would not agree to transfer to a different ship. \n\n"}
{"id": "43569887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43569887", "title": "2014 Pathum Thani building collapse", "text": "2014 Pathum Thani building collapse\n\nOn 11 August 2014, a six-story building under construction in the U Place Condotel condominium project, collapsed in Pathum Thani province, Thailand. The collapse resulted in 14 deaths and 25 injuries to the construction workers working on the building.\n\nThe collapse building was part of a six building project, including two finished buildings with residents. The building project is owned by Plook Plang Co. Ltd.\n\nCasualties included Cambodian nationals who were construction workers. The rescue operation was concluded on 14 August 2014, after all victims were found.\n\nA flaw in the construction design was cited as the cause for collapse. Columns at the perimeter of the building were not strong enough to support the weight of cement being poured on the roof, leading to a structural failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "54200515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54200515", "title": "2017 Bilderberg Conference", "text": "2017 Bilderberg Conference\n\nBilderberg conferences are an annual private gathering of 120 to 150 people of the European and North American political elite, experts from industry, finance, academia, and the media, established in 1954 by Prince Bernhard.\n\nThe 2017 Bilderberg Conference took place between 1-4 June 2017 at the Westfields Marriott Hotel in Chantilly, Virginia, United States. Previous Bilderberg conferences were held here in 2002, 2008 and 2012.\n\nA list of key topics for discussion at the 2017 Bilderberg conference was published on the Bilderberg website shortly before the meeting. Topics for discussion included:\n\nA list of expected delegates was published by the Bilderberg Group.\n\nChairman: Henri de Castries\n\n"}
{"id": "55545589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55545589", "title": "2017 Iraqi–Kurdish conflict", "text": "2017 Iraqi–Kurdish conflict\n\nThe 2017 Iraqi–Kurdish conflict occurred in and around the Kurdish region of northern Iraq, and began on 15 October 2017, as a result of the Iraqi Kurdistan referendum in 2017 held on September25. The diplomatic crisis between the Iraqi Government and the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) escalated into all out conflict when the Peshmerga ignored repeated warnings by Iraqi prime minister Haider al-Abadi to hand over Kirkuk peacefully to Iraqi forces. The Peshmerga stated they would not take commands from the central Government of Iraq but from the autonomous Kurdish region, this was tantamount to a declaration of rebellion against the state of Iraq. After a several weeks stand-off at the gates of Kirkuk, Iraqi troops were given orders to attack on 15 October. Despite having a significant disadvantage in terms of numbers, the attacking force was superior in equipment and discipline, and had effective tactics and coordination.The Peshmerga were routed from the entire city of Kirkuk within a day and the Iraqi army pushed further north ejecting the Peshmerga from the entirety of Kirkuk province and neighbouring Sinjar, Diyala and the Nineva plains.. The conflict marked a major set-back in Kurdish hopes for an independent nation as the KRG had lost 40 percent of land under its jurisdiction and their main source of revenue, the kirkuk oil fields. This meant the KRG was now reliant on an annual budget from the central government. The KRG made to sign a pledge to not seek independence again as a precondition to the end of the conflict. \n\nThe President of the Iraqi Kurdistan Region, Masoud Barzani, facilitated the Iraqi Kurdistan independence referendum in September 2017. This provoked the Prime Minister of Iraq Haider al-Abadi to demand that the referendum result be cancelled, and called on the KRG to initiate dialogue \"in the framework of the constitution\". In October, Iraq began to move its forces into areas seized by the KRG after the entry of ISIL, and all the disputed areas outside the Kurdish Region, including Kirkuk.\n\nThe Kurdish Peshmerga ignored a deadline given by Iraq to withdraw by 15October 2017. This led to the Iraqi forces and the PMU militia retaking Kirkuk and its province on the same day. Within 15 hours, the city of Kirkuk and the nearby K-1 Air Base, along with surrounding oilfields, were retaken by Iraqi forces. The international coalition described the events as \"...coordinated movements, not attacks...\", with most Peshmerga withdrawing without much of a fight. This was likely due to the fact that Hero and Bafel Talabani, leaders of the PUK Peshmerga, struck a deal with the Iraqis to withdraw without a fight without notifying the KDP Peshmerga. This, in turn, led to the collapse of Kurdish defenses, and led to accusations of betrayal on part of the Talabani family by the KDP, since the day before the battle of Kirkuk both parties met in Dukan and agreed to fight. The same day, Iraqi forces advanced on and captured the city of Tuz Khurmatu in the Saladin Province, 60 km south of Kirkuk, as well as Kifri in the Diyala Governorate.\n\nOn 17October 2017, ISIS attacked the villages of Makha, and Twelha, just north of Kirkuk. The Iraqi advance also continued, with further gains including Khanaqin near the Iranian border as well as Jalawla, Bashiqa and Sinjar towards Syria.\n\nA statement from the Iraqi military on 18October, 2017, confirmed that the Mosul dam and other previously Kurdish-held territories in Nineveh province had been taken from the Peshmerga. Ali Akbar Khafaji, an Iraqi police officer, claimed eight PMU fighters and one Peshmerga fighter were killed in clashes that broke out after the PMU failed to heed the Peshmerga's warnings to not advance on the Mosul dam.\n\nBy 19October 2017, according to Erbil's governor, 100,000 ethnic Kurds had fled the city of Kirkuk and Tuz Khurmatu following the victory by Iraqi forces, with 18,000 Kurds taking shelter in Erbil and Suleimaniya. The next day, Hemin Hawrami, a senior assistant to KRG President Masoud Barzani, said in a post on Twitter that 57,000 families from Kirkuk were in need of \"immediate assistance\" after arriving in various parts of Iraqi Kurdistan and taking shelter in unfinished housing units, having fled from \"violence, looting and crimes\" perpetrated by the Iranian-trained and largely Shi'ite Popular Mobilization Forces. Kirkuk police called on the media not to publish rumors. The United Nations released a statement saying it was concerned about reports of violence and the forced displacement of Kurdish civilians, and called for the perpetrators to be brought to justice. It was further reported that UN relief offices received reports that in the town of Tuz Khurmatu, 150 houses were burned and 11 houses were blown up. The UN noted PM Haider al-Abadi's acknowledgement of incidents in Tuz Khurmatu, caused by what he described as extremist elements from both sides and his decision to send the Iraqi army to restore order in Tuz Khurmatu, as well as the requests of the political and security leaderships of the country for federal and local security forces to act in full respect for law and order and protect civilians and political leaders. The PM accused social media instigators of posting fake videos of the alleged violations. The Niqash website confirmed this increase of false news, as well as hundreds of fake videos & pictures. Leaders on both sides say this is leading to a dangerous escalation of tensions in northern Iraq.\n\nOn 19October 2017, one person was killed and three wounded in a protest against Iraqi forces in Khanaqin city. A group of about 150 to 200 unarmed youth carrying Kurdistan flags were protesting, demanding that Iraqi forces leave the city, Col. Azad Isa, Khanaqin's police chief, told Rudaw Kurdish Network. The demonstration was small but energetic, ending with some dancing before they all left. Many said they just wanted the local police to have a presence in town and were not concerned with the larger political struggle over Kurdish independence.\n\nOn 20October 2017, a battle took place in Altun Kupri as Iraqi forces moved towards it. Iraq's Joint Operations Command stated that Peshmerga had used MILAN missiles in the battle, which led to Iraqi criticism as the missiles were given by Germany to the Peshmerga in order to be used against ISIL. The Peshmerga denied they had used the missiles. Earlier, Germany had said it would temporarily stop training Kurdish Peshmerga forces. However, training began again after a week's interruption. Kurdish sources also reported that over 150 PMU fighters were killed or wounded. This was considered to be the first significant battle in which the Peshmerga put up a heavy resistance, whereas in other disputed areas they withdrew after the arrival of Iraqi forces.\n\nBy the end of 20October Iraqi forces have seized complete control of Kirkuk province. Iraqi Joint Operations Command (JOC) meanwhile denied that Hashd al-Shaabi (PMU) fighters were present among the troops that advanced on Altan Kupri, claiming the troops were Counter-Terrorism Service (CTS) forces. It added that two soldiers were killed and five others wounded in the clashes that erupted when they captured the town.\n\nOn 24October 2017, Peshmerga KDP forces were told that the checkpoint in Makhmur would be handed over as per agreements between the Iraqi government and the Kurdish Regional government. However, upon arrival at the checkpoint, the Peshmerga surrounded the Iraqi troops. Twenty Iraqi soldiers were arrested, two killed, and eight more were wounded by the Peshmerga. The PUK accused the Peshmerga KDP of mistreating those who had been arrested by them, and all Iraqi soldiers were released after the Peshmerga command intervened against a local Peshmerga garrison acting against orders.\n\nOn 25October 2017, Iraqi forces seized the Rabia border crossing with Syria after the withdrawal of Syrian Kurdish forces. On the same day, the KRG made a statement offering to freeze the results of the referendum as part of an offer to defuse the crisis. The statement also called for a ceasefire and a halt to all military operations in the northern region. Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi rejected the proposal, adding that the Iraqi central government \"will accept only the canceling of the referendum and following the constitution.\"\n\nOn 26October 2017 at 06:00 hrs, Iraqi federal police and Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) began a four-pronged assault on Peshmerga positions in Zummar; from Bardiya and Hamad Agha towards Ain Ouais, from Mosharaf towards Sufaya, and from Rabia towards Mahmoudiya. The Kurdistan Security Council claimed that Peshmerga had destroyed three tanks, five US-supplied Humvees and one Badger and repelled the attempts of the Iraqi forces to retake Faysh Khabur. However, Iraqi forces and PMU militia managed to retake two villages, Jazronia & Mahmoudiya, as they attempted to advance towards the town of Faysh Khabur, near the Iraqi-Syrian-Turkish border triangle. Some reports meanwhile indicated that Masoud Barzani might announce that he would step down as president of the KRG.\n\nOn 27October, the Kurdish Regional Government stated that Iraqi forces and Kurdish Peshmerga fighters had agreed to stop fighting in northern Iraq, although the status of any ceasefire remained unclear. A CJTF-OIR spokesman earlier said the deal covered all fronts of conflict. However, he later denied that truce had been officially agreed. The coalition's spokesman, Col. Ryan Dillon, denied that a ceasefire had been reached, retreating from his earlier announcement of a ceasefire between both sides, tweeting, \"I incorrectly said in an interview with (Kurdish TV) Rudaw English that there was a cease-fire between Iraqi and Kurdish forces.\" Iraqi PM al-Abadi later ordered a 24-hour truce to allow a peaceful deployment of Iraqi troops at border crossings with the Kurdistan region.\n\nOn 29November, after claims of ethnic cleansing and the destruction of Kurdish homes, shops and businesses in Tuz Khurmatu and claims of discrimination and oppression against the Kurdish residents of the city by the PMU. The 'Kurdistan Liberation Army' was formed composing of 200 Kurdish volunteers in Tuz Khurmatu. Clashes occurred, in which 8 PMU fighters were killed, and one Kurdish volunteer wounded. Kurdistan24 posted footage of the fighting and unverified graphic videos showed dead bodies of the Turkmen PMU stationed in Tuz Khurmatu. There had been clashes in Kirkuk between volunteers nearly every day in the previous month between Kurdish volunteers and PMU. A thread on Twitter has posted videos of these clashes.\n\nOn 6December a policeman, Major Samer Abdel Nabi Jassam, was killed in a drive-by shooting in Kirkuk city, presumembly by DRK. A day later, heavy fighting erupted in Kirkuk in which the DRK targeted an Iraqi Counter-Terrorism HQ with heavy weapons, RPG'S, grenades and rifle fire; the battle lasting an hour. Afrasiaw Kamil Waisi, Kirkuk police spokesperson stated that there was no casualties, however other Kurdish sources claimed many Iraqi troops were killed and wounded.\n\nOn 12December Iraqi helicopters bombed Dawouda and Zinana areas (Kurdish areas) for the first time since 1991 causing many Kurdish families to be displaced. This led to DRK retaliatory mortar fire against PMU forces inside Tuz Khurmatu causing many casualties amongst the PMU forces.\n\nOn 16December a heavy firefight occurred after Kurdish volunteers inside Kirkuk used at least 5 RPG's and heavy weapons against 2 different Turkmen offices. Turkmen sources claim there were no casualties.\n\nA day later, on 18December, some Kurds in Kirkuk flew the Kurdish flag in schools and universities in Kirkuk and wore Kurdish clothes to celebrate the official Kurdistan Flag Day, leading to PMF forces arresting a number of young people involved.\n\nIraqi and Peshmerga commanders held talks in Mosul on 28October attempting to resolve the crisis over the disputed areas. Amidst the crisis, KRG President Masoud Barzani announced on 29 October that he would not be asking parliament to renew his presidency when it expired on 1November, transferring his presidential powers to the institutions of the KRG which include the legislature and judiciary. Iraqi state TV meanwhile said that the second round of talks between both sides had started the same day.\n\nOn 31October, Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi announced that Iraq had regained control of all disputed areas. At a press conference, al-Abadi also accused certain KRG-linked media outlets of \"openly inciting violence against federal forces\". Abadi announced that the government planned to start paying the salaries of Peshmerga and civil servants working for KRG, stating, \"We will soon be able to pay all the salaries of the Peshmerga and the employees of the region.\"\n\nAnadolu News Agency meanwhile reported that Turkish and Iraqi forces had moved towards the Ibrahim Khalil border crossing that morning. The Prime Minister of Turkey Binali Yıldırım told members of his Justice and Development Party in parliament that the border gate had been \"handed over to the central government\". An Iraqi border police captain showed images of the Iraqi flag flying at the crossing, saying that it was \"officially under the full control of the Iraqi government.\" An Iraqi military statement however confirmed that only a delegation led by the chief-of-staff Othman al-Ghanmi had visited Ibrahim Khalil and Faysh Khabur to determine military and security requirements for taking control. Iraqi troops were however deployed at the border crossing with Iraqi positions set up between Turkish and Iraqi Kurdish checkpoints, according to a security source in Baghdad. KRG officials meanwhile stated they had not relinquished control of the crossing, with Hoshyar Zebari stating that discussions were needed to allow Iraqi oversight at the border.\n\nOn 1November, the Iraqi Joint Operations Command accused the Kurdish military of reneging on the draft agreement for the federal military to redeploy federal forces in disputed areas and border crossing points. It also accused them of moving their forces and building new defensive lines during the negotiation period to deter the redeployment of the federal Iraqi forces. The JOC threatened to resume military operations to capture Kurdish-held territory.\n\nThe KRG on 2November offered a joint deployment at Faysh Khabur, which its defense department stated was part of a \"deconfliction\" proposal on 31October, including a ceasefire on all fronts, continued cooperation in fight against ISIL and joint deployment in disputed areas. The KRG on the same day also accused the central Iraqi government of being \"not interested\" in joint deployment at the border with Turkey.\n\nPrime Minister of Iraqi Kurdistan Nechirvan Barzani stated on 6 November that the KRG would hand over the oil revenue in exchange for the central government agreeing to pay the customary 17% share of the federal budget. The Supreme Federal Court ruled on the same day that no region or province could secede. KRG stated on 14 November that it will accept the court's ruling.\n\nHaider al-Abadi stated on 14November that he would act soon over border areas under Kurdish control, but predicted Iraqi forces would regain them without violence. \"We will regain control on border areas without escalation. But our patience will run out. We will not wait forever. We will take action.\" The Iraqi Supreme Court ruled the referendum as unconstitutional and its results void on 20November. Nechirvan Barzani meanwhile blamed the court of reaching the decsion unilaterally without any KRG input and asked for a third party to mediate in negotiations between central government and the KRG.\n\nThe central government later listed 13 preconditions for dialogue including, a handwritten note of annulment of the referendum, which the federal court ruled illegal and KRG respected the ruling but didn't formally renounce it. It also asked for guarantee of not seeking independence, handing over all border crossings and airports as well as all future federal revenues. KRG agreed to the conditions and Abadi announced that talks will be resumed. A MP of Abadi's ruling bloc stated on 4 January 2018 that a parliamentary committee would be set up to resolve all disputes. Meanwhile, a delegation of Kurdish parties met Abadi according to a statement by his office. \n\nAbadi announced on 13 March that the airports of the region will be reopened to international flights, with flights possibly resuming in a week. The statement added that Kurdish authorities had agreed for the two airports in Erbil and Sulaimaniyah with international flights to come under federal control. Kurdish authorities confirmed that airports will come under federal control and would report to the central Interior Ministry. The federal government announced on 19 March that it had paid salaries to employees in the region for the first time since 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4557712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4557712", "title": "4th World Festival of Youth and Students", "text": "4th World Festival of Youth and Students\n\nThe Fourth World Festival of Youth and Students (WFYS) was held in 1953, in Bucharest, the capital of Romania.\n\nThe World Federation of Democratic Youth organized this festival against a background of what it described as persecution of communists, such as in West Germany, where Philipp Müller, a delegate to the 3rd WFYS had been killed during a demonstration, and in the United States, where Julius and Ethel Rosenberg had been convicted of espionage on behalf of the Soviet Union, and executed. Other stated goals of the festival were to protest against the Korean War and to support the anti-colonial movements in the French colonies of Algeria and Vietnam. With this background, the festival and its preparation became anti-war demonstrations.\n\nIt was held 2–14 August 1953, at the newly-built 23 August Stadium. More than 30,000 young people from 111 countries participated in the Festival.\n\nThe motto of the festival was No! Our generation will not serve death and destruction!.\n\nThe festival's sports programme featured an athletics competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "12754815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12754815", "title": "6th World Festival of Youth and Students", "text": "6th World Festival of Youth and Students\n\nThe 6th World Festival of Youth and Students (Russian: Всемирный фестиваль молодёжи и студентов) was opened on 28 July 1957, in Moscow, Soviet Union. The festival attracted 34,000 people from 130 countries. This became possible after the bold political changes initiated by Nikita Khrushchev. It was the first World Festival of Youth and Students held in the Soviet Union, which was opening its doors for the first time to the world.\n\nThe Khrushchev reforms, known as Khrushchev's Thaw, resulted in some changes in the Soviet Union. Foreigners could come for a visit, and people were allowed to meet foreigners, albeit only in groups under supervision. However, that did not stop people from making friends. Russian foreign language students volunteered as interpreters.\n\nMusic from many world cultures came to USSR with the festival. People were dancing on the streets holding hands with foreigners from all over the world. Jazz musician Aleksey Kozlov had a chance to play with foreign musicians. The popular ensemble Druzhba from Leningrad became the winner of the First Prize in popular music, thanks to its lead singer, Edyta Piecha, the star of the 1950s who could sing in many languages. Edyta Piecha, Vladimir Troshin and international guests of the festival together performed the popular song \"Moscow Nights\".\n\nThe festival's sports programme featured an athletics competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "25874360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25874360", "title": "Advanced persistent threat", "text": "Advanced persistent threat\n\nAn advanced persistent threat (APT) is a stealthy computer network attack in which a person or group gains unauthorized access to a network and remains undetected for an extended period. The term's definition was traditionally associated with nation-state sponsorship, but over the last few years we’ve seen multiple examples of non-nation state groups conducting large-scale targeted intrusions for specific goals.\n\nAn APT may have either business or political motives. APT processes require a high degree of covertness over a long period of time. The \"advanced\" process signifies sophisticated techniques using malware to exploit vulnerabilities in systems. The \"persistent\" process suggests that an external command and control system is continuously monitoring and extracting data from a specific target. The \"threat\" process indicates human involvement in orchestrating the attack.\n\nAPT usually refers to a group, such as a government, with both the capability and the intent to target, persistently and effectively, a specific entity. The term is commonly used to refer to cyber threats, in particular that of Internet-enabled espionage using a variety of intelligence gathering techniques to access sensitive information, but applies equally to other threats such as that of traditional espionage or attacks. Other recognized attack vectors include infected media, supply chain compromise, and human intelligence and deception. The purpose of these attacks is to place custom malicious code on one or multiple computers for specific tasks and to remain undetected for the longest possible period. Knowing the attacker artifacts, such as file names, can help a professional make a network-wide search to gather all affected systems.\nIndividuals, such as an individual adversary, are not usually referred to as an APT, as they rarely have the resources to be both advanced and persistent even if they are intent on gaining access to, or attacking, a specific target.\n\nWarnings against targeted, socially-engineered emails dropping trojans to exfiltrate sensitive information were published by UK and US CERT organisations in 2005. This method was used throughout the early 1990's and does not in itself constitute a APT. The term \"advanced persistent threat\" has been cited as originating from the United States Air Force in 2006 with Colonel Greg Rattray cited as the individual who coined the term. However, the term APT was used within telecommunications carriers years previously.\n\nThe Stuxnet computer worm, which targeted the computer hardware of Iran's nuclear program, is one example. In this case, the Iranian government might consider the Stuxnet creators to be an advanced persistent threat.\n\nWithin the computer security community, and increasingly within the media, the term is almost always used in reference to a long-term pattern of sophisticated computer network exploitation aimed at governments, companies, and political activists, and by extension, also to attribute attributes to the groups behind these attacks. Advanced persistent threat (APT) as a term may be shifting focus to computer based hacking due to the rising number of occurrences. PC World reported an 81 percent increase from 2010 to 2011 of particularly advanced targeted computer attacks.\n\nActors in many nations have used cyberspace as a means to gather intelligence on individuals and groups of individuals of interest. The United States Cyber Command is tasked with coordinating the US military's offensive and defensive cyber operations.\n\nNumerous sources have alleged that some APT groups are affiliated with, or are agents of, nation-states.\nBusinesses holding a large quantity of personally identifiable information are at high risk of being targeted by advanced persistent threats, including:\n\nA Bell Canada study provided deep research in to the anatomy of APTs and uncovered widespread presence in Canadian government and critical infrastructure. Attribution was established to Chinese and Russian actors.\n\nBodmer, Kilger, Carpenter and Jones defined the following APT criteria:\n\n\nActors behind advanced persistent threats create a growing and changing risk to organizations' financial assets, intellectual property, and reputation by following a continuous process or kill chain:\n\nThe global landscape of APTs from all sources is sometimes referred to in the singular as \"the\" APT, as are references to the actor behind a specific incident or series of incidents, but the definition of APT includes both actor and method.\n\nIn 2013, Mandiant presented results of their research on alleged Chinese attacks using APT methodology between 2004 and 2013 that followed similar lifecycle:\n\nIn incidents analysed by Mandiant, the average period over which the attackers controlled the victim's network was one year, with longest – almost five years. The infiltrations were allegedly performed by Shanghai-based Unit 61398 of People's Liberation Army. Chinese officials have denied any involvement in these attacks.\n\nPrevious reports from Secdev had previously discovered and implicated Chinese actors. \nDefinitions of precisely what an APT is can vary, but can be summarized by their named requirements below:\n\n\nThere are hundreds of millions of malware variations, which makes it extremely challenging to protect organizations from APT. While APT activities are stealthy and hard to detect, the command and control network traffic associated with APT can be detected at the network layer level with sophisticated methods. Deep log analyses and log correlation from various sources is of limited usefulness in detecting APT activities. It is challenging to separate noises from legitimate traffic. Traditional security technology and methods have been ineffective in detecting or mitigating APTs. Active cyber defence has yielded greater efficacy in detecting and prosecuting APTs (find, fix, finish) when applying cyber threat intelligence to hunt and adversary pursuit activities. \n\n"}
{"id": "47085615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47085615", "title": "Balloon propaganda campaigns in Korea", "text": "Balloon propaganda campaigns in Korea\n\nBalloon propaganda campaigns in Korea include both North and South Korean propaganda leaflet campaigns through the use of balloons as a distribution method since the Korean War. A variety of other contents have also been included with the balloons. Originally, these campaigns were organized by the governments and militaries of the Korean states. Contemporarily, however, they are mainly organized by South Korean non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that regularly involve themselves in balloon release events that aim to send materials censored in North Korea, as well as various other goods, to the North Korean people.\n\nThe main motivations of the South Korean balloon campaigns have been a desire to support democratization and to incite a regime change in North Korea. However, the effectiveness of such leaflet campaigning has been debated. Furthermore, the balloon drops may have worsened tensions on the Korean Peninsula, and the launches have also been met with increasing opposition from the South Korean society. The North Korean state has targeted propaganda to South Koreans soldiers on the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) in retaliation against Southern propaganda campaigns.\n\nThe official stance of both the South and North Korean governments has been against the continuing balloon drops. However, the South Korean government has been hesitant to intervene in the launches by activists due to concerns about freedom of expression. However, some actions by officials, like banning the use of boats in balloon launches, have greatly reduced the amount of leaflets flying into North Korea. In recent years, there have been few cases of official leaflet droppings by either state. However, government organized psychological warfare between the Korean states largely disappeared in the aftermath of the Sunshine Policy, regardless of renewed tensions since.\n\nThe origins of propaganda campaign competitions on the Korean Peninsula can be traced back to the Korean War, when the United Nations forces shelled Chinese and North Koreans with an estimated total of 2.5 billion leaflets. A historical study has estimated that the amount of leaflets was so great that it would have been enough to cover the whole peninsula under a layer 35 leaflets thick. In comparison, North Koreans only spread 30 million leaflets during the war. The Korean balloons can also be compared with the German situation during the Cold War with \"\" (wall sailors) sending balloons with goods over the Berlin Wall.\n\nBalloon drops were organized by the South Korean state until the beginning of the Sunshine Policy under the Kim Dae-jung administration. Both Koreas halted psychological warfare for the duration of 2004–2010; in addition to balloons, this prohibited radio broadcasts, billboards and loudspeakers on the DMZ. The North Korean state had originally demanded that as a precondition for the first Inter-Korean summit in 2000, and the request was later accepted by the Kim Dae-jung administration. After the Yeonpyeong incident in 2010, balloon drops were organized by the defense ministry in late 2010 for some time, but they have since been suspended again after having lasted for a year.\n\nThere have been a few instances of similar balloon propaganda campaigns launched by North Korea to South Korea; however, campaigns on the Korean Peninsula primarily target North Korea. There was a balloon release by North Korea in July 2012 as a response to an official South Korean military leaflet campaign in the aftermath of the Yeonpyeong incident.\n\nIn 2010, there was public support for a hard line against North Korea during increased tensions, but the support declined by 2011. A poll in late 2014 revealed that recent developments had turned many in South Korea against leaflet campaigns: 58 percent of respondents were against the balloon launches.\n\nIn May 2018, both Koreas made a commitment to end the balloon propaganda campaign and an attempt made by North Korean defectors to continue the campaign was sabotaged by the South Korean government.\n\nThe South Korean propaganda during the Korean War, through its extensive leafletting involving 2.5 billion leaflets, was also intended to display the capitalist world's ability to outproduce its communist rivals. A study by I. H. Lee found that bias against North Koreans in the South Korean society was prefigured in the visual forms of United Nations propaganda during the Korean War. In comparison, North Korean propaganda during the war largely mirrored contemporary Soviet propaganda.\n\nJin-Heon Jung claims there has been little change in the contents and aims of South Korean leaflets themselves since the transition from military launches to civilian launches. Historically, there have been some oversights in cultural sensitivities in leaflets, such as in translation from South Korean orthography to North Korean orthography. For instance, North Koreans did not understand words like \"Hŏnggari\" () or \"Ssoryŏn\" (), as they are written in North Korea as \"Wengari\" and \"Rossiya\", respectively. The leaflets include a mix of scandals, information and enticements. Some of the leaflets include proselytism for born again Evangelicalism, or Gospels from the Bible. One leaflet reportedly provocatively compared Kim Il-sung to Jesus in its message, saying: \"Believe Jesus Christ instead of Kim Il Sung\". During the Cold War, the propaganda competition evolved to resemble a struggle between the two relatively new influences in Korea: communism and Christianity. High-ranking defector Hwang Jang-yop's actions have also been featured in the leaflets.\n\nBalloon drops by the South Korean government historically included—in addition to the propaganda leaflets—sweets, lighters, tobacco and pornography. Today, the contents launched by non-governmental organizations include various kinds of media and other goods and essentials. They have sent, for example, U.S. dollars, instant noodles, booklets, nylon stockings and high quality socks, friendly letters, radios, as well as DVDs, USB sticks and SD cards with banned media content, such as copies of the Korean Wikipedia. Choco pies have also been included, as they have become prized and valuable items to barter with. After the Sony Pictures Entertainment hacking incident, many activists sent copies of \"The Interview\" to North Korea. Some of these movies sent to North Korea have been cut by the activists with the most offensive parts removed. Some of the leaflets launched today are made of light, water-proof polyvinyl.\n\nContemporary leaflets dropped by North Korean government have relatively simple contents, and are reminiscent of propaganda used by the North. The leaflets include various slogans, and North Koreans are known for including racist or sexist contents in propaganda. In 2016 some balloons were filled with trash in addition of propaganda leaflets. Leaflets from the past decades had more varied contents.\n\nRecent organizations involved with the balloon campaigns include North Korean defectors' organizations, South Korean evangelical Protestants and conservatives, various organizations of other Christian denominations and United States based organizations. In the participating North Korean defectors' organizations, ex-military members are overrepresented. Women constitute up to 70 percent of North Korean defectors; however, it is mainly men from relatively elite or military background who lead the balloon campaigns. The defectors' organizations are the most active ones; the two main organizations for flying leaflets to North Korea are Fighters for a Free North Korea and North Korean Christian Association.\n\nFighters for a Free North Korea, Campaign for Helping North Koreans in Direct Way, North Korean Christian Association and North Korean People's Liberation Front are among the active balloon releasing defectors' groups. However, Park Sang-hak claims that, unlike other defector groups, Fighters for a Free North Korea does not receive funding from the government—they have a couple of hundred supporters who donate five to ten U.S. dollars a month. Some of the defector activists, like the North Korean People's Liberation Front, have contacts across the Chinese border area, and smuggle media across the rivers to North Korea.\n\nNative South Korean NGOs involved include the National Action Campaign for Freedom and Democracy in Korea, Korean Parents League, Chogabje.com, Family Association of South Korean POWs and Abductees, Cornerstone Ministries, and various others. Suzanne Scholte from the Defense Forum Foundation is the chairwoman of the North Korea Freedom Coalition. The North Korea Freedom Coalition is among the biggest supporters of the organizations involved. Anonymous Christian donors and overseas churches are also a noteworthy source of funding.\n\nPark Sang-hak has described their motives as trying to break the information curtain and raise the people's consciousness to encourage North Koreans in overthrowing their leaders. The Human Rights Foundation stresses its beliefs on freedom of speech, self-determination, freedom of association, freedom of movement and democracy. In addition to hoping to topple the regime and agitating, the involved human rights organizations advocate causes like helping refugees, doing humanitarian work for disabled people living in North Korea, proselytizing Christianity, and various other causes.\n\nProtestant Evangelicalism is a common contemporary denominator for the majority of NGOs involved with the balloon drops since the drops became essentially privatized. Jin-Heon Jung argues that there has been a polarization in the South Korean society since start of the Sunshine Policy: as the polarization between states decreased, the ideological and political polarization within South Korea increased. Jung notes that Evangelical church leaders have led protests against both regimes. Unlike in other Asian nations, like Japan, South Koreans did not resist Western missionaries, and as a result, Christianity became politically linked to the anti-communist movement in South Korea. The Bush administration's hard line towards North Korea and funding for anti-North organizations has also had an important impact on the formation of an international human rights movement against North Korea.\n\nThere has also been competition between the two major Broadcasting companies in South Korea during the Cold War in the messages sent to the North Korean people. These companies are the government-run Korean Broadcasting System (KBS) and the private Evangelical Protestant Far East Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nJin-Heon Jung points out that 80 percent of North Koreans arriving in the South Korea identify themselves as Christians. These defectors will rely on and stay in touch with churches. Many of them assume leadership positions as activists against the North Korean regime.\n\nThe balloons most commonly used by NGOs are unconventional transparent 12-meter long cylindrical helium- or hydrogen-filled balloons. Sturdy double-walled greenhouse plastic is used for the balloons. The balloons include propaganda messages written on the surface in Korean script. These balloons were developed to replace blimps previously used by the South Korean government, which were no longer being produced. After the balloons travel far enough across the border, a timer opens the plastic bags carried by the balloons. The balloons can travel up to 200 kilometers, and the maximum load for each balloon is 10 kilograms. Fighters for a Free North Korea spends approximately 500 U.S. dollars for each balloon launched; however, the balloons are considered a low-cost solution.\n\nFighters for a Free North Korea has considered improving their GPS capabilities to better understand their balloons' movements. Since early 2015, helicopter drones have been used to distribute materials.\n\nImjingak's Imjin Pavilion grounds, the Tongil Park parking lot in the city of Paju and the island of Ganghwa on the west coast are common places for anti-North Korea activists to hold protests and launch balloons. Balloons have also been launched on boats, but launching from boats was prohibited in 2013 by the South Korean government. Park Sang-hak says that Fighters for a Free North Korea was able to send twice as many leaflets to the North Korea using boats. In comparison, during 2014, they managed to fly only seven to eight million leaflets into North Korea.\n\nThe launches have been met with resistance from the locals living nearby. Fear has also been harmful for local tourism and business. Residents of the city of Paju living near the launch site of Imjingak tried to stop balloons from being launched in October 2014 by blocking the way with tractors. The locals were joined by left-wing activists supporting rapprochement. However, a small group of North Korean defector activists managed to break away and launch 20,000 leaflets from the nearby town of Gimpo. Launching balloons is not illegal, but the South Korean police sometimes intervenes. Some of the failed balloon release attempts have ended in clashes with the South Korean police and activists, such as Park Sang-hak being detained in April 2015.\n\nThe climate of Korea poses a challenge for the launches, as the winds blow east for 80 percent of the year and only occasionally blow from the south to the north. Balloons sometimes end up in the sea or back to South Korea. There has been a case of the leaflets falling over Seoul due to unreliable weather.\n\nIn addition to using balloons as a means of delivery, North Koreans have also used rockets to send leaflets to the DMZ. Many of the retrieved Cold-War era leaflets included maps. One of the leaflets found on the DMZ included a map of Cho Dae-hum's route of defection to North Korea across the DMZ. Many North Korean leaflets during the Cold War gave instructions, in addition to maps, to help the targeted South Korean soldiers in defecting.\n\nNorth Korea restored its balloon leaflet campaign in July 2012 during increased peninsular tensions after the failed missile test involving Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 earlier in April. The propaganda leaflets targeting western border areas in October 2012 praised pro-North activists and criticized the South Korean defense ministry's \"anti-Pyongyang education program\". This leaflet campaign occurred after South Korea resumed their own balloon leafletting campaign after the bombardment of Yeonpyeong in 2010–2011. In October 2012, a total of around 16,000–17,000 North Korean leaflets were found by patrolling South Korean soldiers. That had been, according to the South Korean defense ministry, the second time in 2012 they discovered North Korean leaflets after North Korea resumed leafletting in July. There had been a 12-year long break with North Korean leafletting. It was reported in 2016 that North Korea was still using leaflets. Unlike in the past, North Korea has adopted a new way of showing its disapproval through propaganda instead of resorting into using military force by shooting across the border. In response to the 2016 South Korean political scandal, North Korea intensified leaflet drops supporting the removal of President Park Geun-hye. In February 2017, North Korean leaflets attacking Donald Trump were found in Seoul. In 2018, North Korea dropped leaflets promoting rapprochement with the South in the upcoming Winter Olympics.\n\nNorth Korea has warned its citizens that the goods carried by the balloons from South Korea are poisoned, but the North Korean people have been known to ignore these warnings. Due to their size, the balloons are easy to track. North Korea has been accused of intercepting the balloons and poisoning their contents to convince its citizens that South Koreans do not have good intentions. Organizations like North Korea Peace responded by substituting food with socks, including a warning and instructions for how to render the poisoned socks harmless. Defector and Korean Peninsula International Peace Organization spokesman Lee Ju-Seong stated in 2012 that one good pair of South Korean socks can be sold for enough corn to feed a child for two months.\n\nActivists have accused some of the anti-balloon drop protesters of being paid counter-protesters supported and organized by the North Korean state. However, there is genuine opposition against the launches in the wider South Korean society, beyond the locals near the launch sites. Some counter-protesters object to provoking a nuclear state, and believe that a dialogue with North Korean leadership is needed for the reunification of the Korean peninsula. As some defectors dress in military-style uniforms and sunglasses, this has been a point for objections. Additionally, there is an estimated three to five percent support for the far-left and the Kim regime in South Korea.\n\nThe North Korean state routinely threatens people involved in the balloon drops. Uriminzokkiri carried a threatening message in 2013 accusing the activists of acting as human shields for the North Korean activist defectors present.\n\nThe Secretariat of the Committee for Peaceful Reunification, \"Rodong Sinmun\" and the National Defense Commission have repeatedly condemned the South Korean government's policy on North Korea. The state of North Korea holds the government of South Korea responsible for the balloon drops, and has demanded for harder actions against the activists. North Korea has also threatened military action. On 1 December 2012, the Secretariat issued a statement demanding then presidential candidate Park Geun-hye to terminate president Lee Myung-bak's policy and to fulfill her presidential election pledge. The Secretariat of the Committee for Peaceful Reunification warned that provokers will be held fully accountable and that the relations of the two states would be again pushed to a catastrophe in the event that the launch would be allowed to happen. \"Rodong Sinmun\" stated in October 2014 that the South Korean government's tolerance of the balloon launches is comparable to an act of war.\n\nNorth Korea has reacted most seriously to the leaflets slandering the leaders of North Korea. In summer 2015, one such leaflet launch carried death threats not only to prominent military leaders, but to Kim Jong-un and his wife Ri Sol-ju too, which provoked Committee for Peaceful Reunification to respond three days after the launch. The committee accused that leaflet campaigning could not be conducted without protection from the South Korean National Intelligence Service, Ministry of National Defense or Ministry of Unification.\n\nThe South Korean police occasionally prevents balloon releases out of fear that North Korea may retaliate and endanger civilians living nearby. The government has claimed that the actions of the activists are within freedom of expression, and has appealed to the activists not to commit provocations towards North Korea. Chairman Kim Moo-sung of the Saenuri Party was concerned that hardline anti-North Korea activists might not be helping inter-Korean relations, after a balloon launch provoked a shoot-out across the Korean Demilitarized Zone on 10 October 2014. As a response to the criticism that the government is not doing enough to stop the balloon launches, president Park Geun-hye said that the issue would be \"dealt with in a way that considers both freedom of expression and the safety of local residents\".\n\nA senior official from the Unification ministry spoke anonymously and remarked that previously they tried to stop the balloon releases, but since the \"Cheonan\" sinking, they have left the matter to the local police to solve. The local police intervene only if there is violence, or a threat of it.\n\nMultiple organizations involved in the campaigns are in competition with each other as they try to acquire financing for their actions. Ideological differences and different motivations between secular and Christian activists have also caused mutual resentment. Controversially, some organizations have been accused of lying about their leaflets reaching North Korea by a North Korean defector and Evangelical Christian Lee Min-bok, who is a leading figure in the leafletting along with Park Sang-Hak. He accused other organizations of launching balloons from Imjingak even though it would be impossible to reach North Korea's capital, Pyongyang, from there. He suspects that the balloons would fly to the Sea of Japan or, at best, to the mountains in the Kangwon province. He criticized them for trying to get media attention to increase funding. One such launch suspected to be promoting fundraising was made on 19 January 2015 by Human Rights Foundation and Fighters for a Free North Korea. Kim Hueng-kang from North Korea Intellectuals Solidarity says that the balloons are good for pressuring North Korea, even though they tend to fall near the DMZ due to the winds, where there are mostly soldiers to see the leaflets. Park Sang-hak has retained confidence in the balloons, as he says that hundreds of defectors have told to him about having been reached by the leaflets. Lee Min-bok has said that \"[t]he balloon launch is a primitive humanitarian activity for human rights, which opens eyes, ears and mouths of North Korean people that have been closed by the North Korean regime\". Lee Min-bok also downplayed the chance of war breaking out as a result of the balloon launches.\n\nThe Christian organizations have also had their motives questioned. The Christian activists have been accused of being more interested in proselytizing than actually saving people. For instance, a balloon landing on the roof of a farmer's house could bring trouble to the family. Furthermore, Christian literature is an especially dangerous material to have in North Korea. Korean American missionary Douglas Shin has said that Christians have picked up a banner to help North Koreans, and that \"some people don't like using the word crusade, but that's exactly what this is—a crusade to liberate North Korea\". South Korean and U.S. officials and analysts agree that the effects of missionary work are difficult to assess. Furthermore, they say that changing North Korea through religion is very difficult.\n\nJin-Heon Jung reports that a North Korean ex-intelligence agent, Lee Min-bok, told that soldiers indeed liked to see pornographic South Korean pictures; however, they saw it as a sign that the South Korean capitalist society was a completely rotten one. Another North Korean having served as a soldier recalled that he felt disgusted by the pictures. Other ex-soldiers like Lim Young-sun, who runs the online television channel Unification Broadcasting, which shows North Korean propaganda to help in understanding the culture of the North, have stated that the leaflets and contents like candy dropped on the North Korean soil actually calmed their initial hostility towards the South Koreans. \"The New York Times\" reported in 2016 that there has been no reliable study on how many North Koreans read the leaflets, or how they react on them. In comparison, South Korean people are known to mostly ignore North Korean leaflets as South Korea is a democratic society with distinct political values.\n\nAndrei Lankov of Kookmin University thinks that leaflets that can only contain a relatively short text are unlikely to convince their readers and as such are ineffective in comparison to, for instance, radio programs. Professor Lee Jung-hoon from Yonsei University is not convinced that an organization such as North Korean People's Liberation Front is able to truly destabilize the North Korean regime, whatever methods they used, as they would have challenges trying to infiltrate North Korean society and posing as an alternative to the regime.\n\nProfessor Lee Woo-young of the University of North Korean Studies questions how it would be possible to demand North Korea to stop its hostile actions, as sending leaflets across the border is a violation of the Inter-Korean Basic Agreement from 1992. In the Inter-Korean Basic Agreement, both governments agreed to stop hostile actions against each other.\n\nSuzanne Scholte of the Defense Forum Foundation, an organization working mainly for Sub-Saharan self-determination and North Korean human rights, has called the balloons \"nuclear missile[s] of truth and hope for North Korean people\".\n\nDirector John Feffer from Foreign Policy in Focus argues that the activists should learn from the Polish 'self-limiting revolution' (the Second Solidarity) in 1988–1989, as pushing one's own government too hard can be harmful to the cause. He criticizes the activists for making maximalist claims about the smuggled information, and for refusing to compromise, as they try to reach their goals. Feffer considers the activists' actions to be harmful because they put human lives in danger, harm inter-Korean dialogue and harm the democratic legitimacy of the South Korean state.\n\nHowever, the launching of balloons has provoked North Korea to threaten activists by warning that it would shell the areas with balloon launches. In October 2014, the North Korean border guards' attempt to shoot down some of the balloons led to a firefight due to North Korean shots landing near a South Korean military base and a residential area. A North Korean spy was arrested in 2011 and accused of trying to assassinate balloon campaign activist Park Sang-hak. In 2014, a North Korean agent posing as a defector was arrested for reportedly attempting to assassinate Choi Jung-hoon, another activist involved in the balloon drops and the commander of the North Korean People's Liberation Front. Jin-Heon Jung points out that the DMZ has become more militarized in recent years. The balloons may contribute to a decay of the remaining cooperation between the Korean governments; activists have been blamed of eagerly trying to destroy any cooperation between the governments.\n\nOn May 1, 2018, North and South Korea leaders made a commitment to ending all border propaganda, including the balloon propaganda campaign. This commitment was enforced by South Korea on May 5, when an official from Unification Ministry ordered a group of North Korean defectors led by Lee Min-bok to halt their anti-North Korean balloon campaign.\n\nOn November 1, 2018, both Koreas established buffer zones near the Korean border. According to the Agreement on the Implementation of the\nHistoric Panmunjom Declaration in the Military Domain, hot air balloons cannot travel within 25 km of the DMZ \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21241449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21241449", "title": "Bandi Chhor Divas", "text": "Bandi Chhor Divas\n\nBandi Chhor Divas (\"Day of Liberation\") (ਬੰਦੀ ਛੋੜ ਦਿਵਸ) is a Sikh holiday which coincides with the day of Diwali. Sikhs historically celebrated Diwali along with Hindus, with Guru Amar Das explicitly listing it along with Vaisakhi as a festival for Sikhs. In late 20th century, Sikh religious leaders increasingly called Diwali as Bandi Chhor Divas, and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee adopted this name along with the Nanakshahi calendar in 2003.\n\nUnlike the Hindu festival of Diwali whose significance is based on the texts and scriptures of Hinduism, Bandi Chhor Divas celebrates a Sikh historic event related to the sixth Guru, Guru Hargobind. According to Sikh history, on this day, Guru Hargobind was released from prison by the Mughal Emperor Jahangir who freed 52 other Hindu kings with him.\n\nThe Bandi Chhor Divas is celebrated in a manner similar to Diwali, with the lighting of homes and Gurdwaras, feasts, gift giving and family time. It is an important Sikh celebration along with Vaisakhi, Maghi, Holi with Hola Mohalla and Gurpurab.\nIn addition to \"Nagar keertan\" (a street procession) and an \"Akhand paath\" (a continuous reading of Guru Granth Sahib), Bandi Shor (Shodh) Divas is celebrated with a fireworks display. The Shri Harmandir Sahib, as well as the whole complex, is festooned with thousands of shimmering lights. The temple organizes continuous \"kirtan\" singing and special musicians. Sikhs consider this occasion as an important time to visit Gurdwaras and spend time with their families.\n\nGuru Hargobind's father Guru Arjan was arrested under the orders of the Mughal Emperor Jahangir and he was asked to convert to Islam. He refused, was tortured and executed in 1606 CE. This event is remembered as a defining moment in Sikh history and as the martyrdom of Guru Arjan. After the execution, Guru Hargobind succeeded his father as the next Guru of Sikhism.\n\nGuru Hargobind, on 24 June 1606, at age 11, was crowned as the sixth Sikh Guru. At his succession ceremony, he put on two swords: one indicated his spiritual authority (\"piri\") and the other, his temporal authority (\"miri\"). Because of the execution of Guru Arjan by Mughal Emperor Jahangir, Guru Hargobind from the very start was a dedicated enemy of the Mughal rule. He advised Sikhs to arm and fight. The death of his father at the hands of Jahangir prompted him to emphasise the military dimension of the Sikh community.\n\nJahangir responded by jailing the 14 year old Guru Hargobind at Gwalior Fort in 1609, on the pretext that the fine imposed on Guru Arjan had not been paid by the Sikhs and Guru Hargobind. It is not clear as to how much time he spent as a prisoner. The year of his release appears to have been either 1611 or 1612, when Guru Hargobind was about 16 years old. Persian records, such as \"Dabistan i Mazahib\" suggest he was kept in jail for twelve years, including over 1617-1619 in Gwalior, after which he and his camp were kept under Muslim army's surveillance by Jahangir. According to Sikh tradition, Guru Hargobind was released from the bondage of prison on Diwali. This important event in Sikh history is now termed the \"Bandi Chhor Divas\" festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "3158293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3158293", "title": "Battle of Boju", "text": "Battle of Boju\n\nThe Battle of Boju () was the decisive battle of the war fought in 506 BC between Wu and Chu, two major kingdoms during the Spring and Autumn period of ancient China. The Wu forces were led by King Helü, his brother Fugai, and Chu exile Wu Zixu. According to Sima Qian's \"Shiji\", Sun Tzu, the author of \"The Art of War\", was a main commander of the Wu army, but he was not mentioned in the \"Zuo Zhuan\" and other earlier historical texts. The Chu forces were led by \"Lingyin\" (prime minister) Nang Wa (also known as Zichang) and \"Sima\" (chief military commander) Shen Yin Shu. The Wu were victorious, and captured and destroyed the Chu capital Ying.\n\nWu was originally a minor state east of Chu, which was a major power of the Spring and Autumn Period and was frequently at war with the state of Jin, the other major power north of Chu. In order to check Chu's expansion, Jin made an alliance with Wu, trained the Wu army, and taught them to use chariots. Wu gradually grew stronger, and in 584 BC defeated Chu for the first time and annexed the Chu city of Zhoulai. In the following 70 years Chu and Wu fought ten wars, with Wu winning most of them.\n\nDuring the reign of King Ping of Chu, the corrupt official Fei Wuji induced the king to marry the bride of Crown Prince Jian. Fearing the revenge of the prince when he would become king, Fei persuaded King Ping to exile Prince Jian and kill his advisor Wu She along with his son Wu Shang. Wu She's second son Wu Zixu escaped to the state of Wu and vowed revenge. Fei Wuji was later executed by Nang Wa and Shen Yin Shu.\n\nIn the kingdom of Wu, Wu Zixu became a trusted advisor of Prince Guang and helped him assassinate his cousin King Liao of Wu. Prince Guang ascended the throne and was known as King Helü of Wu.\n\n\"Zuo Zhuan\", one of the earliest Chinese works of narrative history compiled in the 4th century BC, gives a detailed account of the battle and the larger war.\n\nIn 506 BC, during the reign of King Zhao of Chu, King Helü decided to invade Chu. The king personally led the army, along with his younger brother Fugai and Wu Zixu. Wu was joined by the minor states of Cai and Tang whose monarchs had been held prisoners by the Chu prime minister Nang Wa. The Wu army sailed up the Huai River and then left their ships and marched to the east bank of the Han River. In response, Nang Wa and chief military commander Shen Yin Shu led the Chu army to the west bank of the Han, across the river from the invaders.\n\nShen Yin Shu devised a plan in which Nang Wa would take up defensive positions with the main army along the Han River, while Shen would go north to Fangcheng on Chu's northern frontier, and lead the troops stationed there to destroy the Wu ships left on the Huai River as well as block the three passes on the Wu army's return route. Nang Wa would then cross the Han River and the two forces would simultaneously attack the Wu army from both the front and the back. Nang accepted the plan, and Shen departed for Fangcheng.\n\nAfter Shen's departure, however, the historiographer Shi Huang (史皇) said to Nang Wa that the people of Chu hated Nang and loved Shen Yin Shu, and that if he followed Shen's plan then Shen would take all the credit for the victory and Nang would be doomed. Nang had a change of heart and decided to cross the river and attack right away.\n\nThe two armies fought three battles between the Xiaobie (southeast of present-day Hanchuan) and Dabie Mountains and the Wu forces were victorious. Convinced that he could not win, Nang Wa wanted to flee but was dissuaded by Shi Huang.\n\nOn the 19th day of the 11th month (Chinese calendar), the two armies were drawn up at Boju. Fugai asked King Helü for permission to attack, saying that Nang Wa was cruel and his soldiers had no will to fight, and that if he attacked the Chu soldiers were sure to flee. King Helü denied his request, but Fugai decided to disobey the king and attack anyway with his own force of 5,000 men. As he predicted, the Chu soldiers fled and the Chu army was routed. Shi Huang was killed in the battle and Nang Wa escaped to the state of Zheng.\n\nFugai then pursued the Chu army to Qingfa River, waited until half of them had crossed the river, and then attacked and defeated them again. Later, the Wu army caught up with the Chu soldiers when they were having their meal. The Chu soldiers fled, and the Wu troops ate their food, resumed the pursuit, and defeated them again at Yongshi River (雍澨, present-day Sima River in Jingshan County). After winning five battles, the Wu army reached Ying, the capital of Chu. King Zhao of Chu escaped first to Yun, and then to the state of Sui, and the Wu army captured Ying.\n\nShen Yin Shu had by now returned and defeated the Wu forces at Yongshi, but he was wounded three times in as many battles. Not wanting to be captured alive, he ordered officer Wu Goubi to kill him and bring his head home.\n\nAfter the fall of Ying, Shen Baoxu, an official of Chu and a former friend of Wu Zixu, went to the State of Qin to plead for assistance. At first the Qin ruler Duke Ai refused to help, but after Shen spent seven days crying in the palace courtyard, Duke Ai was moved by his devotion and agreed to send troops to assist Chu.\n\nIn 505 BC, the Qin and Chu armies jointly defeated Wu in several battles. In September, Fugai returned to Wu and declared himself king. King Helü was therefore forced to return and defeated Fugai, who fled and sought refuge in Chu. King Zhao of Chu then returned to the capital Ying.\n\nHistorian Fan Wenlan considers the Battle of Boju and the Wu-Chu War the first large-scale war of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. Chu, one of the most powerful states in the Spring and Autumn Period, would never regain its former strength and Wu reached the zenith of its power. However, Wu was unable to hold on to its territorial gains and its strength would not last for long. In 473 BC, only three decades after it almost conquered the Kingdom of Chu, the Kingdom of Wu itself would be conquered by the rising power of Yue to its south.\n\nThe battle is largely attributed to the famous Chinese general Sun Tzu. In the \"Art of War\" it was said that Sun Tzu led the forces of Wu during the battle. However, there has been no records of his participation in the battle. The \"Zuozhuan\", the primary source of the battle, does not mention Sun Tzu at all.\n"}
{"id": "25538067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25538067", "title": "Beirut Rock Festival", "text": "Beirut Rock Festival\n\nBeirut Rock Festival is a rock/metal concert in Lebanon.\n\nThe first Beirut Rock Festival took place in Forum de Beirut (Karantina) on 11, 13 and 14 November 2009.\n\nThe second Beirut Rock Festival took place in the Zouk Mikael Amphitheater (Zouk Mikael) on 2 and 3 September 2011.\n\nThe 2013 Beirut Rock Festival will take place at Beirut Waterfront on 2 July.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "997497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=997497", "title": "Black hat", "text": "Black hat\n\nA black hat hacker (or black-hat hacker) is a hacker who \"violates computer security for little reason beyond maliciousness or for personal gain\".\n\nThe term's origin is often attributed to hacker culture theorist Richard Stallman (though he denies coining it) to contrast the exploitative hacker with the white hat hacker who hacks protectively by drawing attention to vulnerabilities in computer systems that require repair. The black hat/white hat terminology originates in the Western genre of popular American culture, in which black and white hats denote villainous and heroic cowboys respectively.\n\nBlack hat hackers are the stereotypical illegal hacking groups often portrayed in popular culture, and are \"the epitome of all that the public fears in a computer criminal\". Black hat hackers break into secure networks to destroy, modify, or steal data, or to make the networks unusable for authorized network users.\n\n"}
{"id": "426531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426531", "title": "Bonnaroo Music Festival", "text": "Bonnaroo Music Festival\n\nThe Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival is an annual four-day music festival developed and produced by Superfly Presents and AC Entertainment. Since its first year in 2002, it has been held at what is now Great Stage Park on a 650-acre (263 km) farm in Manchester, Tennessee, USA. The festival typically starts on the second Thursday in June and lasts four days. Main attractions of this festival are the multiple stages featuring live music with a diverse array of musical styles including indie rock, classic rock, world music, hip hop, jazz, americana, bluegrass, country music, folk, gospel, reggae, pop, electronic, and other alternative music. Musical acts play from around noon until 3:00am or later.\n\nThe festival began with a focus on jam bands and folk rock; it has diversified in recent years but continues to pay tribute to its roots. Notable acts have included Eminem, U2, Phish, Nine Inch Nails, Radiohead, Paul McCartney, Billy Joel, Tool, The Beach Boys, Kanye West, My Morning Jacket, Stevie Wonder, The White Stripes, Neil Young, Pearl Jam, Tom Petty, The Dead, The Allman Brothers Band, James Brown, Wilco, Bon Iver, Arctic Monkeys, The Flaming Lips, Willie Nelson, Mumford and Sons, Of Monsters and Men, Jay Z, Bob Dylan, The Black Keys, Zac Brown Band, Dave Matthews Band, Buffalo Springfield, The Police, Arcade Fire, Jack Johnson, The Strokes, The Black Crowes, Metallica, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Bruce Springsteen, Beastie Boys, Kings of Leon, ZZ Top, Dead & Company, and Widespread Panic. The festival features craftsmen and artisans selling unique products, food and drink vendors, a comedy tent, silent disco, cinema tent, and a Ferris wheel.\n\nBonnaroo Music Festival was largely influenced by rock concerts of the late 1960s and early 1970s, as well as the massive Phish festivals of the late 1990s. The festival is a nod to the Monterey International Pop Music Festival (1967), the Atlanta International Pop Festival (1969, 1970), and most famously the Woodstock Music & Art Fair (1969).\n\nThe festival was ranked in 2003 by \"Rolling Stone\" magazine as one of the \"50 Moments That Changed Rock & Roll\", \"Festival of the Decade\" by \"Consequence of Sound,\" and among the 10 Best Festivals by \"GQ Magazine\".\n\nBonnaroo was established by Ashley Capps of AC Entertainment and Kerry Black (graphic design), Rick Farman (festival operations), Richard Goodstone (marketing), and Jonathan Mayers (programming) of Superfly Productions.\n\nThe first Bonnaroo Music Festival took place in 2002. The founders chose \"bonnaroo\" (Creole slang meaning a really good time) for its literal meaning and to honor the rich New Orleans music tradition they had enjoyed in college. Bonnaroo was popularized by New Orleans R&B singer Dr. John with his 1974 album \"Desitively Bonnaroo.\" Bonnaroo is derived from the French \"bonne\" /bɔn/ the feminine agreement of \"bon\" /bɔ̃/ meaning \"good,\" and the French \"rue\" /ry/ meaning \"street,\" translating roughly to \"the best on the streets\".\n\nThe founders were inspired by music festivals they attended in the 1990s, including those put on by the band Phish, and events held in Coachella and Glastonbury. They found a site in Manchester, Tennessee that had facilities and good highway access. Using only their website for ticket sales, they sold out the festival in about two weeks. By 2003, the festival had been named by \"Rolling Stone\" magazine as one of the 'top 50 moments in rock & roll.' Comedy acts such as Jim Breuer were first added in 2005. In 2007, Bonnaroo purchased the land for the festival, creating Great Stage Park with all of its iconic features. They installed a permanent main stage in 2010.\n\nIn 2016, AC entertainment was purchased by Live Nation Entertainment. Following the very weak attendance for the 2016 event, Live Nation responded with performances by U2, Lorde, The Weeknd, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers in 2017, returning the attendance to 65,000.\n\nOn January 10, 2007, Bonnaroo organizers Superfly Productions and AC Entertainment purchased a major portion of the site where the annual music festival is held. The purchase of encompassed all of the performance areas and much of the camping and parking area used for the annual festival; the festival will continue to lease another that currently serve as additional parking and camping. Since its inception, Bonnaroo has contributed more than $1 million directly to Coffee County organizations.\n\nIn addition to the festival's annual charitable contributions, its activities help generate annual revenue for the county. Measured in a 2005 study, the economic impact of the event on Coffee County was more than $14 million in business revenues and more than $4 million in personal income. The Bonnaroo music festival makes most of its income from the fans.\n\nThe festival regularly contributes to charities including Doctors Without Borders, Head Count, MusiCares, Habitat for Humanity, Boys and Girls Club of America, Rock the Earth, the American Red Cross, and the Sierra Club. It provided aid to assist local organizations following disasters such as the 2010 Haiti earthquake, 2005 Hurricane Katrina, Nashville floods, and Gulf of Mexico oil spill.\n\nBy 2013, the direct and indirect economic impact of the festival since inception was estimated at $51 million, including $2.9 million in tax revenue for the year 2012.\n\nBonnaroo actively supports recycling and sustainability. In 2011, A Greener Festival recognized Bonnaroo's efforts for the previous three years with an award. In 2004 Bonaroo said it prevented having to collect 120 tons of trash by encouraging fans to recycle. Food and drink are sold in organic and recyclable materials to create less waste. AGF auditors review festivals, as well as requiring their self-evaluation. As of late, Bonnaroo initiates many \"green\" activities during the festival, such as Planet Roo, a hub advocating sustainability and effective change toward the environment.\n\nWhen the festival first began in 2002, USA Today referred to Bonnaroo as \"The culmination of a musical movement.\" CNN described it as: \"Music and subculture melted together into a pot of creative bubbling energy.\"\n\nIn 2008, it was named \"Best Festival\" by \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, calling it \"the ultimate over-the-top summer festival.\" \"Rolling Stone\" also recognized Bonnaroo as one of “50 moments that changed rock & roll.”\n\n\"The New York Times\" said \"Bonnaroo has revolutionized the modern rock festival\" in 2012, and \"Spin\" called it the \"Best festival of the summer.\"\n\nThe official venues located at Bonnaroo often change from year to year. The following are some of the more permanent venues.\n\n\nVarious other small tents and stages are also used for various performances, such as the Solar Stage, Lunar Stage, and the Cinema tent. There are also various performances at areas throughout the campgrounds. See the Bonnaroo website for further details on these stages and performances.\n\nThe Beastie Boys performed on the main stage on June 12, 2009. With the passing of Adam Yauch nearly three years later, this would mark the band's final performance.\n\nR&B singer D'Angelo marked his return to American stages for the first time in over 12 years on June 9, 2012 with a surprise performance at the festival's annual Superjam. He was backed by members of the R&B collective The Soulquarians, most notably Questlove, James Poyser and Pino Palladino, with guest guitarist Jesse Johnson. The set was composed almost entirely of covers.\n\nOn June 14, 2014, soul music singer Bobby Womack would give his final performance before passing away on June 27.\n\nOther iconic performers have been Dead & Company (2016), U2 (2017), Lorde (2017) Pearl Jam (2016, 2008), Billy Joel (2015), Mumford and Sons (2015, 2011), Elton John (2014), Jack White (2014), Lionel Richie (2014), The Flaming Lips (2014, 2010, 2007, 2003), Paul McCartney (2013), Tom Petty and The Heartbreakers (2013, 2006), Wu-Tang Clan (2013), Red Hot Chili Peppers (2017, 2012), Radiohead (2012, 2006), Neil Young (2011, 2003), Dave Matthews Band (2010, 2005), Stevie Wonder (2010), Bruce Springsteen (2009), Nine Inch Nails (2009), Metallica (2008), The Police (2007), Bob Dylan (2004), Eminem (2018, 2011).\n\n Available to the Bonnaroo public throughout the week are various activity tents. These tents become most popular with the night crowd, with such activities set up as The Silent Disco tent, and other club or bar-themed venues. In the Silent Disco, each person entering is given a set of headphones that sync with the DJ and the music. Everyone is listening to the same song through the headphones while appearing from the outside to be dancing to no music at all.\n\nThe Comedy Tent has featured such comedians as Mike Birbiglia and Flight of the Conchords. The Cinema tent, showing a variety of mainstream and independent movies, is popular, in part because it is air conditioned. The Broo’ers Festival tent features independent breweries from all over the United States.\n\nOutside the big tents, Planet Roo hosts a variety of non-profit organizations sharing information on healthy lifestyles and resource conservation. Splash-a-Roo (a giant slip-n-slide area) and a giant mushroom fountain provide practical ways to beat the heat. Bonnaroo creators designated the wall surrounding Centeroo, colloquially called \"the Graffiti Wall\", as a place for street artists to paint their choices.\n\nThe campgrounds consist of ten pods organized by the producers with activities and services for the campers. Each pod has an information and medical booth, and a community art project. Many of the pods also feature barns with activities going day and night, and offering a place to relax or purchase refreshments. Often the community art projects develop as joint projects between invited artists and the campers: past festival pods have featured birdhouse construction, decorating stretched canvas, a giant Lite Brite-like panel, and huge frames and raw clay which festival goers shaped to their taste. Some of the art installations are finished prior to the festival. In addition to information, medical services and an art project, each pod offers public showers for $10 each.\n\nIn 2009, Bonnaroo featured the Bungaloo, a community art project that invited festival goers each to paint a small tile. These were affixed to 10-foot water drops suspended between The Other Tent and This Tent. With each tile painted, the festival-goer could vote for the charity of choice. Bungaloo, a new online paint company, made a $1000 donation to the charity with the most votes.\n\nIn 2013, Bonnaroo brought its stage to YouTube. In conjunction with talent and Bonnaroo fans, Bonnaroo and Los Angeles production company Kids At Play created Soopergroop – a band created from four musical acts brought together over four days to create and share original works at Bonnaroo 2013 and launch Bonnaroo’s YouTube channel. The channel’s title, Bonnaroo 365, refers to the celebration’s intention to be part of fans’ daily lives. YouTube’s position with musician and fans – amassing 1.9 billion views of music videos in 2012 – made it an essential platform for the music festival.\n\nSoopergroop talent was chosen for their musicality and YouTube audiences. They met for the first time at Bonnaroo in June. Their work process over the four-day festival was the subject of an eight-part documentary series by Kids At Play released on Bonnaroo’s YouTube Channel.\nThe artists were:\n\n\"Note: all figures are approximate\"\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Comedy Central hit show Broad City makes mention of the festival in the episode ‘B&B NYC’ (S:3, E:07) and also make a comment about the festival at 1 other time. In fact, the girls were invited to do a comedy performance in 2014. They rode around thinking they wouldn’t be noticed, but plenty of fans spotted them and got high fives or photo ops in.\n\n"}
{"id": "51330814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51330814", "title": "Burial of Ferdinand Marcos", "text": "Burial of Ferdinand Marcos\n\nThe Burial of Ferdinand Marcos, the 10th President of the Philippines (1965–1986) and dictator was originally scheduled on September 13, 2016 and later on October 18, 2016 at the Heroes' Cemetery in Taguig, Metro Manila, Philippines. On November 8 of the same year, the Supreme Court eventually decided that Marcos be buried at Heroes' Cemetery on an unspecified date. The burial of Marcos took place on November 18, 2016.\n\nThe burial of Ferdinand Marcos, particularly at the Heroes' Cemetery has been a controversial issue as critics, particularly victims of human rights violations during the Martial Law era, and participants of the People Power Revolution have opposed attempts to bury Marcos, who they deem as unfit to be buried at the particular cemetery due to his authoritarian rule, and allege that the Marcos family has yet to return money illegally removed from the country's treasury. Opinion on his burial remains split: 50 percent of the 1,800 respondents of a survey conducted by SWS in February 2016 said Marcos “was worthy to be buried at the Libingan ng Mga Bayani” while the other half rejected a hero’s burial.\n\nThere were conflicting claims on where the deceased Marcos wished to be buried. Former Interior Secretary Rafael Alunan III, one of the signatories of an agreement to move Marcos' body from Hawaii to the Philippines during the term of then President Fidel V. Ramos, said that Marcos wished to be buried beside his mother in his hometown in Batac, Ilocos Norte, while his wife Imelda Marcos said that his wish was to be buried in Manila insisting that he should be buried at the Heroes' Cemetery.\n\nFormer Presidents Corazon Aquino and Fidel V. Ramos had opposed moves to bury Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery during their respective terms, while Former President Joseph Estrada attempted to bury Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery but later cancelled the burial. Rodrigo Duterte, during the campaign period and debates and as well having won the presidential elections, repeatedly asserted his plans for the burial of the remains claiming the act is in accordance with the existing laws of the Philippines, as well as an insisting the burial will be an instrument for the beginning of \"nation-wide healing\" but the plan was met with criticism due to claims of historical revisionism or negationism. The burial of Marcos, with military honors, was conducted in a private ceremony on November 18, 2016. It resulted in widespread expressions of indignation and nationwide protests.\n\nAfter Ferdinand Marcos died in 1989, his family attempted to bring his remains from Hawaii to the Philippines but the administration President Corazon Aquino imposed a ban against the entry of Marcos' remains into the country. This was lifted on October 9, 1991 by Aquino on the condition that Marcos' burial would not be used for political purposes and on the condition that the body of Marcos be flown directly to Laoag. Aquino's executive secretary Franklin Drilon said that a \"heroes burial\" would be allowed if held in Marcos' home province instead of Manila. Imelda Marcos, the wife of Ferdinand Marcos opposed the move saying that the dying wish of her husband was to be buried in Manila. In January 1992, the Philippine government stated that it may not oppose the burial of Marcos anywhere in Metro Manila provided that Marcos' body was flown into the country after the 1992 Philippine election in May. The Marcos family opposed the condition and was waiting for a ruling of the Supreme Court at that time regarding their petition to bury Ferdinand Marcos as soon as possible.\n\nThe transfer of Marcos' body would not be done until the administration of President Fidel V. Ramos. It was during Ramos' term that a memorandum of agreement was made between the government and the Marcos family in 1992. There were four conditions agreed by both parties and these were:\n\n\nAccording to Rafael Alunan III, former Interior Secretary and one of the signatories of the agreement, the third clause was agreed upon due to \"wounds [that] were still fresh in the minds of many people\" and to avoid potential instability. He also said that the former President Marcos wanted to be buried beside his mother in Batac, Ilocos Norte. Also according to Alunan, after the signing of the agreement, Imelda Marcos crossed out the burial clause and wrote in that Marcos was to be \"temporarily interred\" instead of being buried in Ilocos Norte. Alunan said that the terms of agreement could not be changed after it was signed but Mrs. Marcos insisted and came up with a new agreement paper with the changed clause. The revised paper was not signed by the government.\n\nIt was on September 7, 1993 that the body of Ferdinand Marcos was flown into the Philippines. From Hawaii the body was flown to Guam then to Laoag in Ilocos Norte. The body of Marcos was not buried but was instead preserved in a refrigerated crypt hosted inside the Ferdinand E. Marcos Presidential Center. In Honolulu, Hawaii, Marcos' body was also stored in a refrigerated crypt.\n\nRamos' successor Joseph Estrada attempted to organize a burial of Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery. Then President-elect Estrada had negotiations with Marcos' wife Imelda who initially also demanded state honors for the burial but later agreed to a burial without state honors. It was determined that Marcos would be buried on July 11, 1998. The planned burial of Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery still received opposition even after state honors were not to be included in the planned burial. Former President Corazon Aquino was among those who opposed the move. Estrada remained firm on his decision until July 1998 when Estrada decided against the plan amidst public opposition saying that it would be better if the Marcos family agreed that Ferdinand Marcos be buried in Batac to put an end to \"bitter differences\" and give rest to \"various emotions and sentiments that flared up\".\n\nIn April 2011, then President Benigno Aquino III tasked then Vice President Jejomar Binay to study whether to bury Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery or not. The Office of the Vice President received 3,000 responses from various political parties, sectors, organizations, and members of the public on the issue. Binay recommended the burial of Marcos in his hometown of Batac with full military honors. Aquino did not act on the recommendation.\n\nRodrigo Duterte supported the burial of Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery, even before he assumed presidency and expressed this stance at his presidential campaign in the 2016 elections. Duterte has expressed that a burial of Marcos at the site would commence the \"healing\" of the Philippines and pointed out Marcos' idealism and vision for the country through his projects which \"stood the test of time\" and that Marcos' dictatorship \"remains to be debated\". Duterte previously stated that Marcos could have been the best president if not for the abuses during the Martial law period under Marcos' watch. At the Visayas leg of the PiliPinas Debates 2016, Duterte and fellow candidate Jejomar Binay expressed their support for a Marcos burial at the heroes' cemetery.\n\nOn August 7, 2016, President Rodrigo Duterte gave the order to bury former President Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery saying that Marcos was qualified to be buried at the cemetery due to being a \"former president and a soldier\". Duterte said he was open to demonstrations against the burial plan but insisted that the former President was qualified to be buried at the cemetery. He also added that the burial date may be moved to September 11 which was the birthday of the deceased president.\n\nAmidst criticism that Marcos did not deserve to be buried at the cemetery, Duterte said that burying Marcos at the site did not equate to Marcos being a \"hero in the true sense of the word\". He pointed out that former soldiers and presidents are allowed to be buried at the cemetery and that he would be violating the law if he did not push through with the burial and added that the previous administrations should have passed a law to bar Marcos from being buried at the Heroes' Cemetery. Duterte said he doesn't care about the dispute regarding the authenticity of Marcos' war medals and the non-appearance of Marcos' alleged World War II service in United States records.\n\nMarcos was originally scheduled to be buried on September 13 then October 18 after the oral arguments on petitions to stop the burial. Eventually, on 8 November, the Supreme Court of the Philippines allowed Marcos to be buried of Heroes' Cemetery with the votes of 9-5, with one abstention dismissing the status quo ante imposed to block attempts to bury Marcos in the Heroes Cemetery.\n\nThe concurring judges said that the Supreme Court cannot decide on the matter since it is a political question which was deemed not justiciable. They argue that President Duterte did not abuse his discretion when he allowed the burial of Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery. It was noted that the petitioners failed to specify a specific law that was allegedly violated by proceeding the burial.\n\nThe majority of the judges disagreed with the dissenting opinion that Marcos is disqualified to be buried at the said site due to Marcos' ouster following the People Power Revolution, which the dissenters consider as an act of Marcos being dishonorably discharged. It was noted that while Marcos was also the commander of chief of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the position is not a military position and the particular clause in the 1987 Constitution which gave the designation to Marcos only enshrines the principle of supremacy of civilian authority over the military. It was concluded that Marcos could not be prosecuted before the court martial therefore he could not be \"dishonorably discharged, reverted or separated\" under the AFP Regulations G 161-1375. Marcos ouster through the People Power Revolution is judged to be extra-constitutional and direct sovereign act of the people which was concluded to be outside the scope of the court. Marcos was also found not to have convicted of crimes involving moral turpitude and court cases cited by the petitioners abroad were decided to have no bearing due to the cases being civil in nature.\n\nIt was added that it's up to the people to decide on the matter. The concurring judges also clarified that the court is exercising judicial restraint on an issue they say is \"truly political in nature\" and that the resulting stigma of Ferdinand Marcos' Martial Law regime will \"not be forgotten by the Filipino people\" and Marcos' burial at the cemetery \"will not rewrite history\".\n\nThe Chief Justice said that the burial disregards both international and domestic laws in regards to giving justice to victims of human rights abuses during Marcos' term. The Philippine government was noted to have an obligation to provide compensations to the victims, both monetary and non-monetary, the latter of which includes symbolic reparation. The burial of Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery was deemed by the dissenters as contrary to symbolic reparation entitled to the victims. By allowing the burial, President Duterte was \"encouraging impunity\". Marcos was described as \"a dictator forced out of office and into exile after causing twenty years of political, economic, and social havoc in the country\".\n\nThe argue that Marcos' ouster following the People Power Revolution disqualified him from being buried at the Heroes Cemetery even if the claim of him being awarded the Medal of Valor is indisputable since he was deposed by the \"sovereign action of the people\" which was described as \"the strongest form of dishonorable discharge from office\".\n\nChief Justice Maria Lourdes P. A. Sereno, in her dissent, affirmed that the Court must take cognizance of the issues presented in order to preserve the Constitution as well as the judiciary’s own prerogatives under the Constitution. She maintained that the President acted with grave abuse of discretion in ordering the interment at LNMB because it violated domestic law and international law in relation to the obligations to do justice for human rights victims. After a review of the applicable international agreements and protocols, the Chief Justice pointed out that the Philippines is bound to affirmatively protect the rights of the human rights victims under martial law by providing effective reparations, which would include monetary compensation as well as non-monetary remedies (such as symbolic reparation). The Chief Justice pointed out that the interment of the Marcos remains at LNMB would be the antithesis of symbolic reparation. She also pointed out that the interment would run counter to the duty to combat impunity as well as to preserve memory—all of which are international commitments that the Philippines is bound to observe.\n\nFollowing the Supreme Court decision, preparations for the burial were commenced. Ilocos Norte Governor and daughter of Ferdinand Marcos, Imee Marcos says that the burial will be done with \"simple rites like an ordinary soldier\", and insisted that the event will not be a state funeral but a \"funeral for a soldier\" which she says her father wished for. She also added that the family is willing to airlift the former President's remains from Batac to Fort Bonifacio.\n\nSanta Monica Church in Sarrat, the Immaculate Conception Church in Batac, and the Saint Agustine Church in Paoay were earlier prepared for the wake for former President Marcos before the burial at the Heroes' Cemetery.\n\nThe Philippine National Police were informed on the night of November 17, 2016 that the burial will take place the day after. The police confirmed the scheduled burial in the morning of November 18. The November 18 burial was scheduled to take place at noon.\n\nThe remains of Ferdinand Marcos was airlifted from Ilocos Norte at 9:00 a.m. (UTC+8) and was brought to the Heroes' Cemetery in Fort Bonifacio in Taguig. Marcos was then buried in his grave at the Heroes' Cemetery in a burial ceremony closed to the public. Marcos' wife Imelda Marcos and his children were in attendance, as well as the late president's only living sibling at the time, Fortuna Marcos-Barba. About a hundred were in attendance including personnel from the Armed Forces of the Philippines, and reportedly PNP Chief Ronald dela Rosa. Military honors were given including a 21-gun salute during the rites.\n\nThere was no public announcement of the burial plan, and the public only became aware of the plan shortly before the burial. The Marcos family requested the government to conduct the burial in private, and confidentially. A budget was allocated by the government on the burial and the exceeding budget reportedly will be shouldered by the Marcoses. No exact figures regarding the budget allocated for the burial rites were disclosed.\n\nFerdinand Marcos was buried in a marble finished tomb with a cauldron that has a flame burning inside.\n\n2013-2017 Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) president Lingayen-Dagupan Archbishop Socrates Villegas, a protegé of late Manila Archbishop Jamie Sin during EDSA 1986, said through text to Rappler, on the same day, that he is saddened with the decision and \"the burial is an insult to the EDSA spirit\". Villegas also stated that he backed the anti-Marcos protests, making him much hated by many Filipinos for his actions, with people claiming that the church should not interfere with state issues. \n\nUnlike Villegas, then-Lipa Archbishop Ramon Arguelles, who was still the sitting Lipa Archbishop, called on Filipinos for prayers and forgiveness for the Marcos family, encouraging pro and anti-Marcos groups to pray for Marcos' soul, while condemning groups calling for exhumation with the words \"give the dead peace, respect Marcos' body\". \n\nManila Archbishop Cardinal Luis Antonio Tagle remained silent on the burial and instead chose to offer prayers for the Marcos family and the Filipinos. The late Leopoldo S. Tumulak of the Military Ordinariate of the Philippines echoed the same sentiments of Arguelles.\n\nA poll conducted by the Social Weather Stations (SWS) in March 2011 showed that opinion is split. The same trend appears in a follow up poll by SWS in February 2016. However validated voters instead of just anyone who is 18 years and above as done in the 2011 poll, where queried for the 2016 poll.\n\nAn initiative called Bawat Bato () was launched, urging those who oppose the plan to dump stones with names of victims of abuses during the Martial Law era of Ferdinand Marcos or a personal message at the proposed site of the burial of Marcos within the Heroes' Cemetery.\n\nOn July 17, 2016, a group of people participated in a protest run around the Quezon Memorial Circle in Quezon City led by Fr. Robert Reyes. Reyes said, “whom, in the minds of martial law victims, is a traitor and dictator, is a terrible insult to history and the country itself.”\n\nAbout 2,000 people protested against the burial plans, saying that Marcos was not a hero; organizers clarified that the protests were not against the Duterte administration itself, but were targeted towards the burial plan.\n\nIt was reported that Rafael Alunan said that those who oppose the burial plans of Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery could invoke the 1992 agreement with the Marcos family and the Philippine government under then President Fidel V. Ramos but he clarified on August 17, 2016 that the agreement was a memorandum of understanding which is not binding compared to a formal agreement or deal.\n\nOn September 30, Ateneo de Manila University wrote a memorandum, stating that the students should wear black T-shirts on UAAP Season 79 to protest the Marcos burial at the Libingan ng mga Bayani\".\n\nOn November 6, Former President Benigno Aquino III described the burial as a “desecration” of the Libingan ng mga Bayani. The next day, Aquino briefly joined the crowd at the Luneta for the “Pray for 8” event, a prayer rally calling at least eight justices of the Supreme Court to vote against the interment of Marcos. Former DILG secretary Mar Roxas and senator Francis Pangilinan later joined the group.\n\nFollowing the 8 November decision of Supreme Court allowing the burial of Marcos, government officials and politicians of the country expressed their disappointment and frustration; among them was Senator Pangilinan calling the decision \"shameful and deplorable.\" Pangilinan also describes the Supreme Court's decision “This is a horrible day for democracy.” Incumbent Vice President Leni Robredo was saddened with the decision; Senator Bam Aquino saying that \"my heart goes out to the thousands of victims during the darkest years in Philippine history.\"\nOn 11 November, the Martial Law victims filed a temporary injunction against the burial before the Supreme Court.\n\nVarious groups and sectors also joined the rally, protesting the burial. On 12 November, hundreds of people, protesting the burial, participated in the run at the University of the Philippines Diliman. Lawyers and law students wore black T-shirts 13 November and rallied in front of the University of Santo Tomas where the bar exams held. The Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN) called on 14 November for widespread demonstrations across the country, hoping to discourage President Rodrigo Duterte from proceeding the burial. On 16 November, the Sangguniang Laiko ng Pilipinas (Council of the Laity of the Philippines) calls the planned hero's burial of Marcos \"barefaced disrespect\".\n\nIn Cebu City, a day before the burial, an effigy of Marcos, the same look as he kept in a refrigerated mausoleum, was displayed in a garbage cart, deserving to put as a garbage said by at least 500 members of militant groups. Retired Judge Mienrado Paredes, who is among the person jailed during the martial law, said that \"the real heroes are the people. Marcos was garbage in history. He is not a hero.\"\n\nPresidential Communications Secretary Martin Andanar apologized for using the term \"temperamental brats\" to the protests against it. Andanar clarified on his Facebook post that he used the term \"to express my frustration against those who seek to further divide the country for reasons that have nothing to do with genuine patriotism and civic duty.\"\n\nOn 18 November, the day of Marcos burial, various groups gathered in some places. Among those who gathered to opposed the burial was a group of youth. The League of Filipino Students described the transfer of Marcos remains for the eventually successful burial the former president as being done like \"a thief in the night.\" They also criticized the government's involvement in the burial of the former president which they describe as a \"fascist dictator\". The Kabataan condemn the burial labeling it as a \"grave travesty\" and as \"galawang Hokage\" (lit. \"Hokage\" move; \"Hokage\" is a high-ranked ninja in the \"Naruto\" anime franchise).\n\nVice President Robredo expressed disappointment stating that “like a thief in the night, the Marcos family deliberately hid the information of burying former President Marcos today from the Filipino people.” Students from various universities and other groups joined the protest held across the country including Metro Manila, Cebu City, Davao City, etc. Senator Franklin Drilon gave a statement about the burial, “like what Marcos did for 21 years, he caught us off-guard like a thief in the night. His burial is anything but noble. Even in death, he is a thief.” Senator Risa Hontiveros, who opposed the burial, said that \"no hero’s burial can erase the historical fact of Marcos’ atrocities.\" Senator Aquilino Pimentel III said the burial was a \"sad development.\" Former President Fidel Ramos criticized the burial of the late president, describing it as \"a step backward\".\n\nOn November 25, 2016, the day called by the protestors \"National Day of Unity and Rage\" and \"Black Friday\", various groups in the country held mass demonstrations in the afternoon. Left-leaning groups called on President Duterte to end his alliance with Marcoses. Anti-Marcos protestors and Marcos loyalists started a debate on the issue after the two sides made an encounter.\n\nMaria Serena Diokno, chairperson of the National Historical Commission of the Philippines (NHCP) submitted her resignation on November 29, 2016 in protest of the Marcos burial. She said that the burial \"erases the memory of the lives lost and destroyed\" during the Ferdinand Marcos administration and that it \" mocks the collective action the Filipinos\" took to remove Marcos from his post as President. She added that Duterte could have taken a \"higher ground\" by disallowing the burial despite the Supreme Court decision not to stop the then burial plan. She also praised the youth who expressed their opposition to the burial which she described as an act \"in defense of History\" and said she would personally join mass demonstrations scheduled on November 30, 2016. Her resignation will be effective on December 1, 2016.\n\nIn the last week of November, several Facebook users who expressed their opinions against the burial of Marcos were locked out of their accounts. Some of the users involved suspected that other Facebook users might have compromised their accounts.\n\nFemale activists, mostly students, who joined the Marcos burial protest became targets of cyberbullying for their actions. Photos of the female protesters were filled with misogynist and chauvinist comments alongside death and rape threats. St. Scholastica College students have been victimized in a similar scenario. In response to the incident, Senator Risa Hontiveros later filed the \"Tres Marias Bill\" to prevent such action from repeating, while a team of lawyers headed by UP Law professor John Molo offered free legal services for the sexually-harassed-online female protesters.\n\nThousands of protesters gathered again on 30 November, Bonifacio Day, at the People Power Monument in Quezon City.\n\nOn December 10, about 11,000 protesters marched on the streets in Capiz, Iloilo, Bacolod, Aklan, and Cebu, commemorating Human Rights Day. On the night of December 15, about 150 members of a group called Coalition against Marcos Burial gathered at the People Power Monument to attend the mass.\n\nThousands of people celebrating the 31st anniversary 1986 People Power Revolution on February 25, 2017 with protests.\n"}
{"id": "28182266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28182266", "title": "Causes of the Dutch Revolt", "text": "Causes of the Dutch Revolt\n\nThe causes of the Dutch Revolt and the ensuing Eighty Years War, considered to have started in June 1568, were a number of incidents and frictions had accumulated between the Dutch provinces and their Habsburg overlord.\n\nThe direct cause of this war was similar to the slogan, \"No taxation without representation\". Under the Habsburgs, the Low Countries were formally named unceremoniously \"\"De landen van herwaarts over\" and in French \"Les pays de par deça\"\". Translated, the phrases mean \"those lands around here\" for the Dutch, and \"those lands around there\" for the French. While they were being taxed beyond what they were willing to pay, these far-away provinces were being continually admonished for seeing to their own business without permission from the throne, which at that time was indeed far away, in Spain. Each request for special permission would take at least four weeks for a response from Spain.\n\nThis unrest over taxation without representation was amplified by a strong presence of Spanish troops brought in to oversee the order in these provinces. Meanwhile, a parallel religious revolt was seen as a direct threat to the (Roman Catholic) Spanish throne, by the spread of the Anabaptism of the Dutch reformer Menno Simons and the teachings of foreign Protestant leaders like Martin Luther and John Calvin, culminating with the Beeldenstorm, a country-wide outburst of iconoclasm in 1566.\n\nThe date for the formal start of hostilities is often cited as the execution of the statesmen Lamoral, Count of Egmont and Philip de Montmorency, Count of Hoorn, on the main square in Brussels on June 5, 1568. This double execution (for their protest against the Spanish Inquisition) was just the beginning of a wave of destruction, seen as a counter-attack to the Beeldenstorm, by Fernando Álvarez de Toledo, 3rd Duke of Alba across all of the provinces. This episode ended poetically, four years later, in the total destruction of Lamoral's home in the (far) north, Egmond Castle, along with the neighbouring Egmond Abbey.\n\nWhen Emperor Charles V began the gradual abdication of his several crowns in October 1555, his son Philip II took over as overlord of the conglomerate of duchies, counties and other feudal fiefs known as the Habsburg Netherlands. At the time, this was a personal union of seventeen provinces with little in common beyond their overlord and a constitutional framework painfully assembled during the preceding reigns of Burgundian and Habsburg rulers. This framework divided power between city governments and local nobility, provincial States and royal stadtholders, and a central government of three collateral councils, assisting (usually) a Regent, and the States-General of the Netherlands. The balance of power was heavily weighted toward the local and regional governments. Like his predecessors, Philip II had to ceremonially affirm those constitutional documents (like the Joyous Entry of Brabant) before his accession to the ducal throne. Beyond these constitutional guarantees, the balance of power between local and central government was guaranteed by the dependence of the central government on extraordinary levies (\"Beden\") granted by the States-General when ordinary tax revenues fell short of the financing requirements of the central government (which occurred frequently, due to the many wars Charles waged).\n\nThough he was in the Netherlands in January, 1556, Philip II did not assume the reins of government in person, as he had to divide his attentions between England (where he was king-consort of Mary I of England), the Netherlands, and Spain. He therefore appointed a governor-general Emmanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy, and subsequently from 1559 on, a Regent (his half-sister Margaret of Parma) to lead the central government on a day-to-day basis. As in the days of Charles V, these regents governed in close cooperation with Netherlandish grandees, such as William, Prince of Orange, Philip de Montmorency, Count of Hoorn, and Lamoral, Count of Egmont. But (other than Charles) he also introduced a number of Spanish councillors in the Council of State, foremost Antoine Perrenot de Granvelle, a French-born cardinal. These people gained a preponderant influence in the Council, much to the chagrin of the Netherlandish old guard.\n\nWhen Philip left for Spain in 1559 (as it turned out, permanently) the central government therefore already experienced political strains, and those were exacerbated by the question of religious policy. Like his father, Philip was a fervent enemy of the Protestant teachings of Martin Luther, John Calvin, and the Anabaptists. Charles had legally defined \"heresy\" as \"treason against God\" (or French \"lèse-majesté divine\") an \"exceptional crime\" that was outside the purview of normal legal procedures as laid down in the Netherlandish legal privileges. He therefore outlawed heresy in special \"placards\" that made it a capital offense, to be prosecuted by a Netherlandish version of the Inquisition. Between 1523 and 1566, more than 1,300 people were executed as heretics, far more relative to the overall population than, for instance, in France.\n\nThese \"placards\", and the policy of repression of heresy in general, were highly unpopular, not just with prospective adherents of the Protestant faiths, but also with the Catholic population and the local governments, who considered it an intrusion on their prerogatives. Towards the end of Charles' reign, enforcement had therefore become quite lax. Philip, however, insisted on rigorous enforcement and this caused more and more popular unrest. In the province of Holland, for instance, there were riots in the late 1550s during which the mob freed some condemned persons before their execution.\n\nTo support and strengthen the attempts at Counter-Reformation, issuing from the Council of Trent, Philip launched a wholesale organizational reform of the Catholic Church in the Netherlands in 1559 (with Papal approval). This amounted to the introduction of fourteen new dioceses instead of the old three. This new hierarchy was to be headed by Granvelle as archbishop of the new archdiocese of Mechelen. The reform was especially unpopular with the old church hierarchy as the new dioceses were to be financed by transferring a number of rich abbeys that were traditionally in the gift of the high aristocracy. The new bishops were to take the lead in the enforcement of the anti-heresy \"placards\" and to intensify the Inquisition.\n\nGranvelle's perceived aggrandizement helped focus the opposition against him. The grandees under the leadership of Orange engineered his recall in 1564. Emboldened by this success Orange intensified his attempts to obtain religious toleration. He persuaded Margaret and the Council to ask for a moderation of the \"placards\" against heresy. Philip delayed his response, however, and in the meantime the opposition against his religious policies gained more widespread support. When Philip finally rejected the request for moderation in his Letters from the Segovia Woods of October, 1565, this only fanned the flames. A group of members of the lesser nobility, among whom Louis of Nassau, a younger brother of Orange, and the brothers John and Philip of St. Aldegonde, prepared a petition for the abolition of the Inquisition for Philip. This Compromise of Nobles was supported by about 400 nobles, both Catholics and Protestants. It was presented to Margaret on April 5, 1566 at an audience for about 300 members of the Compromise which Margaret found rather intimidating. (According to legend the petitioners were dismissed as \"gueux\" (beggars) by one of Margaret's courtiers; the rebels would later use that name as a rallying cry). Margaret was sufficiently impressed to order the suspension of the \"placards\" pending Philip's final decision on April 9.\n\nThe suspension of the \"placards\" emboldened the Protestants. Many returned from exile. Calvinists started to organize open-air sermons outside the city walls of many cities. Though these meetings were peaceful, their size alone caused anxiety for the authorities, especially as some of the people attending bore arms. Then, the situation deteriorated rapidly. On August 1, 1566, 2000 armed Calvinists tried to force entry to the walled town of Veurne. Shortly thereafter Calvinist weavers from the industrial area around Ypres attacked churches and destroyed religious statuary. This iconoclastic fury () spread like wildfire across the Netherlands. The authorities at first did not react. The central government was especially disturbed by the fact that in many cases the civic militias refused to intervene. This seemed to portend insurrection. Margaret, and also authorities at lower levels, made further concessions to the Calvinists, like designating certain churches for Calvinist worship. However, the provincial governors, foremost Philip of Noircarmes of Hainaut, who suppressed the revolt of the Calvinists led by Guido de Bres in Valenciennes, and Orange as stadtholder of Holland and Zeeland, took decisive action to quell the disturbances. In March 1567 at the Battle of Oosterweel a motley army of Calvinists under John of St. Aldegonde was defeated by a royalist army and all rebels summarily executed, while Orange prevented the citizens of nearby Antwerp to come to the rebels' aid. In April, 1567 the situation in the country was such, that Margaret could report to Philip that order had been restored.\n\nHowever, news travelled slowly and the court in Madrid had received a rather exaggerated impression of the severity of the situation. In September, 1566 Philip had decided to travel himself to the Netherlands to restore order, but debate among the two factions at the Spanish court, led by the Duke of Alba and the Prince of Eboli, about the advisability of this journey grew fierce. Eventually it was decided to send an army from Italy under the command of Alba. Margaret's emissary arrived at the court on April 17, 1567, the same day when Alba departed on his mission, too late to prevent the fateful intervention\n\nAlba's army of about 10,000 Spanish and Italian mercenaries reached the Netherlands by way of the Spanish Road in August, 1567. Alba was supposed to act as military governor-general, while Margaret would remain in office as Regent. Alba acted in such a presumptuous way, however, that Margaret soon resigned in protest. Alba thereafter was in sole command. He commenced by establishing a Council of Troubles on September 5, 1567. This council soon conducted a severe campaign of repression of suspected heretics and people deemed guilty of the already extinguished insurrection. Many high-ranking officials were arrested on various pretexts, among whom the Counts of Egmont and Horne. The victims of the repression were found in all social strata. A total of about 9,000 people were eventually convicted by the council, though only 1,000 were actually executed, as many managed to go into exile. One of the latter was Orange, who forfeited his extensive possessions in the Netherlands, like most of the people being proscribed. The victims were not necessarily only Protestants. For instance, the Counts of Egmont and Horne, executed for treason on June 5, 1568, protested their Catholic orthodoxy on the scaffold.\n\nThe many exiles found asylum in the few areas in neighboring countries that welcomed Calvinists, like the Huguenot areas in France, England, and Emden or Wesel in Germany. Many were ready to join an armed fight, but the fate of the rebels at Oosterweel had shown that irregular forces did not stand a chance against well-disciplined troops. A better organized effort was needed to lead such an effort, and Orange was uniquely well-placed. As a sovereign prince of the Holy Roman Empire Orange was in a sense the equal of Philip, in his capacity of Count of Holland, for instance. Orange was therefore entirely within his rights to make war on Philip (or, as he for the moment preferred, on Philip's \"bad advisor\" Alba). This was important in a diplomatic context as it legitimized Orange's efforts to hire mercenaries in the principalities of his German \"colleagues,\" and enabled him to issue letters of marque to the many Calvinist seamen who had embarked on a career of piracy from economic desperation. Such letters elevated the latter, the so-called Sea Beggars, to the status of privateers, which enabled the authorities in neutral countries, like the England of Elizabeth I, to accommodate them without legal embarrassment. Orange's temporary abode in Dillenburg therefore became the command center for plans to invade the Netherlands from several directions at once.\n\nLouis of Nassau crossed into Groningen from East Friesland and defeated a small royalist force at Heiligerlee on May 23, 1568. The Battle of Heiligerlee is usually considered the start of the Dutch revolt as it was at this moment that the series of protests and unrest had culminated in armed conflict.\n\n"}
{"id": "2751892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2751892", "title": "Chatsbury bushfires", "text": "Chatsbury bushfires\n\nThe Chatsbury/Bungonia bushfires of 1965 was a series of bushfires that burned from March 5 to March 14, 1965. The fires destroyed the Southern Highlands, New South Wales villages of Tallong, Wingello, and most of the surrounding orchards.\n\nThe fire is thought to be ignited by a spark from a Chatsbury Station angle grinder. It quickly spread and covered 620,000 acres and destroyed the areas' livestock. It is thought to be the greatest disaster in the area.\n\nThree people were killed. 28 homes were destroyed in Tallong, 31 in Wingello. The fire was eventually stopped (or burnt out) near Nowra on the South Coast.\n"}
{"id": "4980930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4980930", "title": "Communist Party of Estonia (1990)", "text": "Communist Party of Estonia (1990)\n\nCommunist Party of Estonia (CPSU) (in Estonian: \"Eestimaa Kommunistlik Partei\", in Russian: \"Kommunisticheskaya Partiya Estonii\") was a political party in Estonia. The party, initially known as Communist Party of Estonia (on CPSU platform) (EKP (NLKP platvormil)), and was formed in 1990 through a split in the original EKP. The split occurred at the 20th congress of EKP in March 1990, as a reaction against the decision of the congress to separate EKP from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Immediately after the independence decision of EKP, the pro-Soviet delegates left the congress venue. The convened their own rival 20th congress on March 26, 1990. EKP(NLKP platvormil) elected its own Central Committee, headed by its First Secretary Alexander Gusev, and would function as a separate party from EKP.\n\nThe party was often perceived, along with Intermovement, as representing the resistance of the Russian population in Estonia against independence. However unlike the split in the Communist Party of Latvia, the split in EKP did not follow ethnic lines. A study on the electoral patterns of the 1990 Estonian Supreme Soviet election showed that the EKP(NLKP platvormil) candidates had a support of just 13.3% of the non-Estonian voters. Notably, when the split in EKP occurred in 1990 party units in Russian-dominated town like Narva, Sillamäe and Kohtla-Järve decided to retain their membership in EKP rather than joining EKP(NLKP platvormil).\n\nUnlike the analogous split in the Communist Party of Latvia, EKP(NLKP platvormil) failed to gain control over any major portion of the resources and personnel of the EKP after the split.\n\nOn 20 June 1990 the name of the party was changed to Communist Party of Estonia (CPSU) (EKP (NLKP)).\n\nEKP (NLKP) held its 21st Party Congress in the fall of 1990 (counting the twenty party congresses of EKP as theirs). The congress elected an Estonian, Lembit Annus, as the new First Secretary. With the new leadership followed a less confrontational approach that its Latvian counterpart. In April 1991 Annus expressed willingness to enter a coalition government in Estonia.\n\nParallel to the March 3, 1991 referendum on Estonian independence, the party organized a referendum of its own. The vote took place in the cities Kohtla-Järve, Sillamäe and Narva. The question of the referendum was \"Do you want the sovereign Estonia to remain within the composition of the USSR?\". Unlike the main referendum, all residents (including Soviet troops) could take part. Only the results from Sillamäe were made public, with a turnout of 83%. 89% of the voters in Sillamäe had voted yes in the referendum.\n\nThe party supported the August 1991 coup. Following the defeat of the coup, the party was declared illegal by the Estonian government on August 22, 1991. At the time Central Committee secretary of the party was Pavel Panfilov.\n\nReportedly, a very small group named Communist Party of Estonia of former members carried on their cause, initially their grouping was affiliated with the Union of Communist Parties – Communist Party of the Soviet Union (SKP-KPSS), but when SKP-KPSS split in 2001 they joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union of Oleg Shenin. The party carried out a congress in 1999, and elected a Central Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "18146305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18146305", "title": "Coney-catching", "text": "Coney-catching\n\nConey-catching is Elizabethan slang for theft through trickery. It comes from the word \"coney\" (sometimes spelled \"conny\"), meaning a rabbit raised for the table and thus tame.\n\nA coney-catcher was a thief or con man.\n\nIt was a practice in medieval and Renaissance England in which devious people on the street would try to con or cheat vulnerable or gullible pedestrians. The term appears in \"The Taming of the Shrew\" and \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" by William Shakespeare, and in the John Florio translation of Montaigne's essay, \"Of the Cannibals.\"\n\nThe term was first used in print by Robert Greene in a series of 1592 pamphlets, the titles of which included \"The Defence of Conny-catching,\" in which he argued there were worse crimes to be found among \"reputable\" people, and \"A Disputation betweene a Hee Conny-catcher and a Shee Conny-catcher.\" Kirby Farrell wrote a book called \"Cony-catching\" in 1971.\nVirginia Woolf mentions \"cony catchers\" in her book \"Orlando\".\n"}
{"id": "356586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356586", "title": "Cronyism", "text": "Cronyism\n\nCronyism is the practice of partiality in awarding jobs and other advantages to friends, family relatives or trusted colleagues, especially in politics and between politicians and supportive organizations. For instance, this includes appointing \"cronies\" to positions of authority, regardless of their qualifications.\n\nCronyism exists when the appointer and the beneficiary such as an appointee are in social or business contact. Often, the appointer needs support in his or her own proposal, job or position of authority, and for this reason the appointer appoints individuals who will not try to weaken his or her proposals, vote against issues, or express views contrary to those of the appointer. Politically, \"cronyism\" is derogatorily used to imply buying and selling favors, such as: votes in legislative bodies, as doing favors to organizations, giving desirable ambassadorships to exotic places, etc.\n\nThe word \"crony\" first appeared in 17th-century London, according to the Oxford English Dictionary and is believed to be derived from the Greek word \"chronios\" (χρόνιος), meaning \"long-term\". A less likely but oft-quoted source is the supposed Irish term \"Comh-Roghna\", which translates as \"close pals\", or mutual friends.\n\nGovernment officials are particularly susceptible to accusations of cronyism, as they spend taxpayers money. Many democratic governments are encouraged to practice administrative transparency in accounting and contracting, however, there often is no clear delineation of when an appointment to government office is \"cronyism\".\n\nIt is not unusual for a politician to surround him- or herself with highly qualified subordinates, and to develop social, business, or political friendships leading to the appointment to office of friends, likewise in granting government contracts. In fact, the counsel of such friends is why the officeholder successfully obtained his or her powerful position; therefore, cronyism usually is easier to perceive than to demonstrate and prove. Politicians with representatives of business, other special interests, as unions and professional organizations get \"crony-business\" done in political agreements, especially by \"reasonable\" and lucrative honorariums to the politician for making speeches, or by legal donations to ones election campaign or to ones political party, etc.\n\nIn the private sector, cronyism exists in organizations, often termed \"the old boys club\" or \"the golden circle\", again the boundary between cronyism and \"networking\" is difficult to delineate.\n\nMoreover, cronyism describes relationships existing among mutual acquaintances in private organizations where business, business information, and social interaction are exchanged among influential personnel. This is termed crony capitalism, and is an ethical breach of the principles of the market economy; in advanced economies, crony capitalism is a breach of market regulations.\n\nGiven crony capitalism's nature, these dishonest business practices are frequently (yet not exclusively) found in societies with ineffective legal systems. Consequently, there is an impetus upon the legislative branch of a government to ensure enforcement of the legal code capable of addressing and redressing private party manipulation of the economy by the involved businessmen and their government cronies.\n\nThe economic and social costs of cronyism are paid by society. Those costs are in the form of reduced business opportunity for the majority of the population, reduced competition in the market place, inflated consumer goods prices, decreased economic performance, inefficient business investment cycles, reduced motivation in affected organizations, and the diminution of economically productive activity. A practical cost of cronyism manifests in the poor workmanship of public and private community projects. Cronyism is self-perpetuating; cronyism then begets a culture of cronyism. This can only be apprehended by a comprehensive, effective, and enforced legal code, with empowered government agencies which can effect prosecutions in the courts.\n\nAll appointments that are suspected of being cronyism are controversial. The appointed party may choose to either suppress disquiet or ignore it, depending upon the society's level of freedom of expression and individual personal liberty.\n\nSome instances of cronyism are readily transparent. As to others, it is only in hindsight that the qualifications of the alleged \"crony\" must be evaluated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11466179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11466179", "title": "Doomination", "text": "Doomination\n\nDoomination was a touring metal music festival with performances by many doom metal and death metal groups. It was organized by the members of the now defunct American band Morgion, the Irish doom metal band Mourning Beloveth and the Yorkshire progressive doom metal band The Prophecy. The tour was intended to bring together the best of the underground doom metal and doom/death metal acts to create a traveling doom metal showcase, helping to bring new life into the scene and spurring on many bands to be more adventurous when considering when, where and how to tour. The original tour and the tours which followed were well received by the metal press with articles and reviews being published in \"Metal Hammer\", \"Terrorizer\", \"Loud\", \"Feedback\" and \"Abode for Forlorn Souls\", the latter publishing full interviews with each of the three Doomination bands as well as excerpts from Christian Moore-Wainwright's (ex The Prophecy guitarist) tour diary.\n\nThe first Doomination tour started on 7 February 2003 at Eamon Dorans in Dublin with another ten dates in the UK, France, Spain, Portugal, Belgium and The Netherlands. The core acts of the tour were Morgion, Mourning Beloveth and The Prophecy. Among the acts participating in the tour were Ataraxie, Autumnal, Desire, Despond, Karseron, Panthiest and Process of Guilt.\n\nThe Doomination of Europe was followed in August 2003 by The Doomination of America. Organised by members of Morgion, this tour had Mourning Beloveth, The Prophecy and Orodruin. Morgion had to pull out of the tour due to a car accident involving the guitarist Gary Griffiths. The tour had a host of supporting acts including Vex, The Gates Of Slumber, Asunder and Negative Reaction.\n\nThe last leg of the Doomination Tour was scheduled over three weeks across September and October 2004. This tour had The Prophecy and the Australian doom band The Eternal. The tour widened its coverage, visiting Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Spain, Portugal and the UK. The tour followed the ideals of the previous Doomination tours by inviting the best of the underground to play in support of the tour.\n\nAn attempt to organise The Doomination of Europe III was made in 2007 with Keen of The Crow (with former Morgion Members). However, because of costs, the tour did not go ahead.\n\n"}
{"id": "3610421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3610421", "title": "DotComGuy", "text": "DotComGuy\n\nMitch Maddox is a computer systems manager and former Internet personality. In a promotion for several Internet companies, he changed his name to DotComGuy and lived the entire year of 2000 in his house in Dallas, Texas, buying all food and other necessities online. Video from the house was streamed on the dotcomguy.com web site. Sponsors of the project included United Parcel Service, 3Com, Network Solutions, Piper Jaffray, Travelocity and an online grocer (now called Edwardo's). The site has since been acquired and today offers an on-site technical assistance service.\nMaddox is now a technology evangelist for Ultimate Software. At the end of each year he holds a day-long DotComGuy reunion on Internet relay chat.\n\n"}
{"id": "57827482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57827482", "title": "European Union Withdrawal Agreement (Public Vote) Bill 2017–19", "text": "European Union Withdrawal Agreement (Public Vote) Bill 2017–19\n\nThe European Union Withdrawal Agreement (Public Vote) Bill 2017–19 is a private member's bill of the Parliament of the United Kingdom to make provision for the holding of a “public vote” (referendum) in the United Kingdom and Gibraltar following the conclusion of negotiations by Her Majesty's Government and the European Union on whether to support the proposed exit deal for the United Kingdom's Withdrawal from the European Union or to remain a member state of the EU. The bill is sponsored by English Labour Co-operative MP Gareth Thomas.\n\nThe Bill proposes that a “public vote” (referendum) is held in the United Kingdom and Gibraltar before 1 February 2019 on whether to support the proposed Withdrawal Agreement which would take the UK out of the European Union or whether to reject the proposed agreement and remain a member state of the EU. \n\nThe Bill also requires the Secretary of State to lay before each House of Parliament a copy of the proposed Withdrawal Agreement no later than 31 October 2018.\n\nThe Bill stipulates the proposed question to appear on ballot papers:\n\nWith the responses to the question to be:\n\nThe Bill also orders the question to be printed in Welsh.\n\nThe Bill proposes to legally define the referendum as a “public vote” as follows:\n\n(1) Subject to the following paragraphs—\n\n(2) It shall the duty of all public authorities, in publications and communications about the public vote provided for under this Act, to use the term \"public vote\" and not to use the term \"referendum\".\n\nThe Bill stipulates that the proposed Withdrawal Agreement cannot be ratified unless the following two conditions are met, as follows, if more votes are cast in favour of “Support the proposed Withdrawal Agreement”:\n\nResult of the Public Vote\n\n(1) The Government shall not conclude any agreement on terms of withdrawal from the European Union, or on the United Kingdom’s future relationship with the European Union, until the conditions in subsection (2) are met.\n\n(2) The conditions are that—\n\n(3) The resolutions, under subsection (2)(b), in both Houses of Parliament must be passed within one week after the result of the public vote, held under section 2, is declared.\n\nIf more votes are cast in favour of \"Support the proposed Withdrawal Agreement\" then both Houses of Parliament is required to vote on whether to ratify the proposed Withdrawal Agreement within one week of the public vote result being declared and requires the Secretary of State to repeal the provisions to remain in the EU as follows:\n\n(7) If—\n\nIf more votes are cast in favour of “Remain a member of the European Union” then the Bill proposes to automatically repeal the European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Act 2017 upon the result of the public vote and requires the Prime Minister to notify the EU of the UK's retraction of its Article 50 notice as follows:\n\nResult of the public vote: provisions to remain in the European Union\n\n(1) The European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Act 2017 is repealed.\n\n(2) The Prime Minister must notify the European Commission of the retraction of the notification under Article 50(2) of the Treaty on European Union of the United Kingdom’s intention to leave the European Union.\n\nThe Bill legislates that if both conditions that are required to rectify the proposed Withdrawal Agreement cannot be legally met (i.e., the Withdrawal Agreement is approved by \"public vote,\" but is rejected by Parliament) then the Bill states that the provisions of section 2 of the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 automatically comes into effect within one week of the result, as follows:\n\n[...] the provisions of section 2 of the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 (\"early parliamentary general election\") shall apply in these circumstances as if the House of Commons had passed a motion under section 2(2) of that Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225255", "title": "Frank Abagnale", "text": "Frank Abagnale\n\nFrank William Abagnale Jr. (; born April 27, 1948) is an American security consultant known for his history as a former con man, check forger, and impostor between the ages of 15 and 21. He became one of the most famous impostors ever, claiming to have assumed no fewer than eight identities, including an airline pilot, a physician, a U.S. Bureau of Prisons agent, and a lawyer. He escaped from police custody twice (once from a taxiing airliner and once from a U.S. federal penitentiary) before he was 21 years old. He served fewer than five years in prison before starting to work for the federal government. He is currently a consultant and lecturer for the FBI academy and field offices. He also runs Abagnale & Associates, a financial fraud consultancy company.\n\nAbagnale's life story inspired the Academy Award-nominated feature film \"Catch Me If You Can\" (2002), starring Leonardo DiCaprio as Abagnale and Tom Hanks as the FBI agent pursuing him, as well as a Broadway musical of that name and a TV series \"White Collar\", which are based on his autobiography of the same name.\n\nFrank William Abagnale Jr. was born on April 27, 1948. He is one of four children and spent the first sixteen years of his life in New Rochelle, New York. His French mother, Paulette, and father, Frank Abagnale Sr., separated when he was twelve and divorced when he was sixteen. His father was an affluent local who was very keen on politics and theater, and was a role model for Abagnale Jr. His primary school education was in a Catholic school.\n\nHis first victim was his father, who gave Abagnale a gasoline credit card and a truck to assist him in commuting to his part-time job. In order to get date money, Abagnale devised a scheme in which he used the gasoline card to \"buy\" tires, batteries, and other car-related items at gas stations and then asked the attendants to give him cash in return for the products. Ultimately, his father was liable for a bill worth $3,400. Abagnale was only 15 at the time.\n\nAbagnale's early confidence tricks included writing personal checks on his own overdrawn account. This, however, would only work for a limited time before the bank demanded payment, so he moved on to opening other accounts at different banks, eventually creating new identities to sustain this charade. Over time through experimentation, he developed different ways of defrauding banks, such as printing out his own almost-perfect copies of checks such as payroll checks, depositing them, and encouraging banks to advance him cash on the basis of his account balances. Another trick he used was to magnetically print his account number on blank deposit slips and add them to the stack of real blank slips in the bank. This meant that the deposits written on those slips by bank customers entered his account rather than the accounts of the legitimate customers.\n\nIn a speech, Abagnale described an occasion when he noticed the location where airlines and car rental businesses, such as United Airlines and Hertz, would drop off their daily collections of money in a zip up bag and then deposit them into a drop box on the airport premises. Using a security guard disguise he bought at a local costume shop, he put a sign over the box saying \"Out of Service, Place deposits with security guard on duty\" and collected money in that manner. Later he disclosed how he could not believe this idea had actually worked, stating with some astonishment: \"How can a drop box be out of service?\"\n\nLater Abagnale decided to impersonate a pilot in order to look more legitimate when cashing checks. He obtained a uniform by calling Pan American World Airways (Pan Am), telling the company that he was a pilot working for them who had lost his uniform while getting it cleaned at his hotel, and obtaining a new one with a fake employee ID number. He then forged a Federal Aviation Administration pilot's license. Pan Am estimated that between the ages of 16–18, Abagnale flew more than on more than 250 flights and flew to 26 countries by deadheading. As a company pilot, he was also able to stay at hotels free during this time. Everything from food to lodging was billed to the airline company. Notably, however, Abagnale did not fly on Pan Am planes – believing his charade could potentially be identified by actual Pan Am pilots possessing actual company identification and background.\n\nAbagnale stated that he was often invited by actual pilots to take the controls of the plane in-flight. On one occasion, he was offered the courtesy of flying at . He took the controls and enabled the autopilot, \"very much aware that I had been handed custody of 140 lives, my own included ... because I couldn't fly a kite.\"\n\nHe said that he worked as a sociology teaching assistant at Brigham Young University for a semester, under the name Frank Adams. Brigham Young University, however, disputes this claim.\n\nFor eleven months, Abagnale impersonated a chief resident pediatrician in a Georgia hospital under the alias Frank Williams. He chose this course after he was nearly arrested disembarking from a flight in New Orleans. Afraid of possible capture, he retired temporarily to Georgia. When filling out a rental application he impulsively listed his occupation as \"doctor\", fearing that the owner might check with Pan Am if he wrote \"pilot\". After befriending a real doctor who lived in the same apartment complex, he agreed to act as a supervisor of resident interns as a favor until the local hospital could find someone else to take the job. The position was not difficult for Abagnale because supervisors did no real medical work. However, he was nearly exposed when an infant almost died from oxygen deprivation because he had no idea what a nurse meant when she said there was a \"blue baby\". He was able to fake his way through most of his duties by letting the interns handle the cases coming in during his late-night shift, setting broken bones and other mundane tasks. He left the hospital only after he realized he could put lives at risk by his inability to respond to life-and-death situations.\n\nWhile posing as Pan Am First Officer \"Robert Black\", Abagnale forged a Harvard University law transcript, passed the Louisiana bar exam, and got a job at the Louisiana State Attorney General's office at the age of nineteen. He told a flight attendant he had briefly dated that he was also a Harvard Law School student, and she introduced him to a lawyer friend. Abagnale was told the bar needed more lawyers and was offered a chance to apply. After making a fake transcript from Harvard, he prepared himself for the compulsory exam. Despite failing twice, he claims to have passed the bar exam legitimately on the third try after eight weeks of study, because \"Louisiana, at the time, allowed you to take the Bar over and over as many times as you needed. It was really a matter of eliminating what you got wrong.\"\n\nIn his biography, he described the premise of his legal job as a \"gopher boy\" who simply fetched coffee and books for his boss. However, a real Harvard graduate also worked for that attorney general, and he hounded Abagnale with questions about his tenure at Harvard. Naturally, Abagnale could not answer questions about a university he had never attended. Eight months later he resigned after learning the man was making inquiries into his background.\n\nAbagnale was eventually arrested in Montpellier, France, in 1969 when an Air France attendant he previously dated recognized him and informed police. When the French police arrested him, 12 countries in which he had committed fraud sought his extradition. After a two-day trial, he first served time in Perpignan's prison—a one-year sentence that the presiding judge at his trial reduced to six months. At Perpignan he was held nude in a tiny, filthy, lightless cell that he was never allowed to leave. The cell lacked a mattress, plumbing, and electricity, and food and water were strictly limited.\n\nHe was then extradited to Sweden, where he was treated more humanely under Swedish law. During trial for forgery, his defense attorney almost had his case dismissed by arguing that he had created the fake checks and not forged them, but his charges were instead reduced to swindling and fraud. Following another conviction, he served six months in a Malmö prison, only to learn at the end of it he would be tried next in Italy. Later, a Swedish judge asked a U.S. State Department official to revoke his passport. Without a valid passport, the Swedish authorities were legally compelled to deport him to the United States, where he was sentenced to 12 years in a federal prison for multiple counts of forgery.\n\nWhile being deported to the U.S., Abagnale escaped from a British VC-10 airliner as it was turning onto a taxiway at New York's JFK International Airport. Under cover of night, he scaled a nearby fence and hailed a cab to Grand Central Terminal. After stopping in The Bronx to change clothes and pick up a set of keys to a Montreal bank safe deposit box containing $20,000, Abagnale caught a train to Montreal's Dorval airport to purchase a ticket to São Paulo, Brazil. After a close call at a Mac's Milk, he was apprehended by a constable of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police while standing in line at the ticket counter. Abagnale was subsequently handed over to the U.S. Border Patrol.\n\nIn April 1971, Abagnale reportedly escaped from the Federal Detention Center in Atlanta, Georgia, while awaiting trial. In his book, Abagnale considers this to be one of the most infamous escapes in history. During the time, U.S. prisons were being condemned by civil rights groups and investigated by congressional committees. In a stroke of luck that included the accompanying U.S. marshal forgetting his detention commitment papers, Abagnale was mistaken for an undercover prison inspector and was even given privileges and food far better than the other inmates. The Federal Department of Corrections in Atlanta had already lost two employees as a result of reports written by undercover federal agents and Abagnale took advantage of their vulnerability. He contacted a friend (called in his book \"Jean Sebring\") who posed as his fiancée and slipped him the business card of \"Inspector C.W. Dunlap\" of the Bureau of Prisons, which she had obtained by posing as a freelance writer doing an article on fire safety measures in federal detention centers. She also handed over a business card from \"Sean O'Riley\" (later revealed to be Joseph Shea), the FBI agent in charge of Abagnale's case, which she doctored at a stationery print shop. Abagnale told the corrections officers that he was indeed a prison inspector and handed over Dunlap's business card as proof. He told them that he needed to contact FBI Agent Sean O'Riley on a matter of urgent business.\n\nO'Riley's phone number (actually the number altered by Sebring) was dialed and picked up by Jean Sebring at a payphone in an Atlanta shopping mall, posing as an operator at the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Later, he was allowed to meet unsupervised with O'Riley in a predetermined car outside the detention center. Sebring, incognito, picked Abagnale up and drove him to an Atlanta bus station, where he took a Greyhound bus to New York, and soon thereafter, a train to Washington, D.C. Abagnale then bluffed his way through an attempted capture by posing as an FBI agent after being recognized by a motel registration clerk. Still intent on making his way to Brazil, Abagnale was picked up a few weeks later by two NYPD detectives when he inadvertently walked past their unmarked police car.\n\nIn 1974, after he had served less than five years of his 12-year sentence at Federal Correctional Institution in Petersburg, Virginia, the United States federal government released him on the condition that he help the federal authorities, without pay, to investigate crimes committed by fraud and scam artists, and sign in once a week. Unwilling to return to his family in New York, he left the choice of parole up to the court and it was decided that he would be paroled in Texas.\n\nAfter his release, Abagnale tried numerous jobs, including cook, grocer, and movie projectionist, but he was fired from most of these after it was discovered he had been hired without revealing his criminal past. Finding these jobs unsatisfying, he approached a bank with an offer. He explained to the bank what he had done and offered to speak to the bank's staff and show them various tricks that \"paperhangers\" use to defraud banks. His offer included the condition that if they did not find his speech helpful, they would owe him nothing; otherwise, they would owe him only $50 with an agreement that they would provide his name to other banks. With that, he began a legitimate life as a security consultant.\n\nHe later founded Abagnale & Associates, based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, which advises companies on fraud issues. Abagnale also continues to advise the FBI, with whom he has associated for over 40 years, by teaching at the FBI Academy and lecturing for FBI field offices throughout the country. According to his website, more than 14,000 institutions have adopted Abagnale's fraud prevention programs.\n\nAbagnale testified before the US Senate in November 2012 about the vulnerabilities of senior citizens to fraud, particularly stressing the ubiquitous use of Social Security numbers for identification included on Medicare cards.\n\nThe authenticity of Abagnale's criminal exploits was questioned even before the publication of \"Catch Me If You Can\". In 1978, after Abagnale had been a featured speaker at an anti-crime seminar, a \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reporter looked into his assertions. Phone calls to banks, schools, hospitals and other institutions Abagnale mentioned turned up no evidence of his cons under the aliases he used. Abagnale's response was that \"Due to the embarrassment involved, I doubt if anyone would confirm the information.\"\n\nIn 2002, Abagnale himself addressed the issue of his story's truthfulness with a statement posted on his company's website which said in part: \"I was interviewed by the co-writer only about four times. I believe he did a great job of telling the story, but he also over-dramatized and exaggerated some of the story. That was his style and what the editor wanted. He always reminded me that he was just telling a story and not writing my biography.\"\n\nAbagnale appeared on the TV quiz show \"To Tell the Truth\" in 1977, along with two contestants presenting themselves as him.\n\nIn the 1970s, he also appeared at least three times as a guest on \"The Tonight Show\", and was interviewed on one occasion by guest host George Carlin.\n\nIn the early 1990s Abagnale was featured as a recurring guest on the UK television series \"The Secret Cabaret\", produced by Open Media for Channel 4. The show dealt with magic and illusions; Abagnale featured as an expert exposing various confidence tricks.\n\nAbagnale's semi-autobiographic book, \"Catch Me If You Can\", was turned into a movie of the same name, by Steven Spielberg in 2002, featuring actor Leonardo DiCaprio as Abagnale. The real Abagnale made a cameo appearance in this film as a French police officer taking DiCaprio into custody. This movie eventually became the basis for a musical, of the same name, which opened in 2011 with Aaron Tveit as Abagnale. The musical received four Tony Award nominations, including one for Best Musical, winning Best Actor In A Musical for Norbert Leo Butz.\n\nIn 2007 Abagnale appeared in a short role as a speaker in the BBC TV series \"The Real Hustle\". He spoke of different scams run by fraudsters.\n\nIn 2016, Abagnale appeared in a television commercial for IBM.\n\nIn 2017, Abagnale appeared in Talks at Google. In an hour long talk consisting of 'his own point of view on his real personal life' and answers to several audience' questions, he dwells in detail about his juvenile adventures, family relations, life as both a con and later as a government official and what is to happen to the global security scenario within the upcoming five years or so.\n\nIn 2018, Abagnale appeared in a televised Blockchain Nation Conference in Miami, sponsored by AMREC (American Renewable Energy Corporation), where he spoke about blockchain technology. His quote \"I think you would have to be pretty ignorant not to realise that blockchain is the way for the future, it is the best way to secure information 100 percent, so I think you will see banks, especially accounting practices and accounting firms, all move to the blockchain, keeping records through blockchain. It will be the best way to do so because you cannot break the blockchain, you cannot hack into the blockchain, you can’t change anything in the blockchain.\" was identified as noteworthy by Yahoo Finance and Fortune Magazine\n\nAbagnale lives in Charleston, South Carolina, with his wife Kelly, whom he met while working undercover for the FBI. They have three sons, Scott, Chris, and Sean. Scott works for the FBI.\nAbagnale cites meeting his wife as the motivation for changing his life. He has said, \"She met me as someone else with a completely different background and when the assignment was over I had broken protocol, because you’re never supposed to do this, but I told her who I really was because I wanted to continue to see her. She accepted what I told her and eventually we got married and have been married ever since.\"\n\nAbagnale and Joseph Shea, the FBI agent on whom the character of Carl Hanratty (played by Tom Hanks) was based in the film \"Catch Me If You Can\", remained close friends until Shea's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26269752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26269752", "title": "French history in the English-speaking theatre", "text": "French history in the English-speaking theatre\n\nThe history of France has been the basis of plays in the English-speaking theatre since the English Renaissance theatre.\n\nChristopher Marlowe wrote \"The Massacre at Paris\" (1593), based on events during the reign of Charles IX of France, king from 1560 to 1574 and of Henry III of France, king from 1574 to 1589. In the first scene, a marriage is celebrated between Marguerite of Valois, sister to Charles IX, and Henry of Navarre, king of Navarre, future Henry IV of France. Soon after, Gaspard de Coligny, leader of the Calvinist French Huguenot faction, is shot to death by a man in the hire of Henry I, Duke of Guise, leader of the Catholic League, an event which precipitates the St Bartholomew's Day Massacre in August 1572.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare wrote \"The Life and Death of King John\" (1596), \"Henry V\" (1599), \"Henry VI, part 1\" (1592), \"Henry VI, part 2\" (1591), and \"Henry VI, part 3\" (1591), based on events during the reigns of John of England, king from 1199 to 1216, Henry V of England, king from 1413 to 1422, Henry VI of England, king from 1422 to 1461 and from 1470 to 1471, Philip II of France, king from 1180 to 1223, Charles VI of France, king from 1380 to 1422, and Charles VII of France, king from 1422 to 1461.\n\nIn the first scene of \"King John\", John of England receives a message from Philip II of France, demanding that he abdicate his throne to his nephew, Arthur I of Brittany, believed to be the rightful heir. When John refuses, war is declared. But to obtain a stronger claim to his throne and to appease the French (act 2, scene 1), John agrees to a marriage contract between Blanche of Castile, his niece, and Louis the Lion, Philip's son (1200). In 1203, John captures Arthur, who eventually dies (act 4, scene 3).\n\nIn the first scene of \"Henry V\", Henry V of England asks noblemen and clergy whether he is entitled to the crown of France, who answer affirmatively, based on French Salic law. As a part of the Hundred Years' War, 1337–1453, the English forces invade France, besieging Harfleur (1415), act 3, scene 1, and defeat the French at the Battle of Agincourt (1415). In the final scene, the king marries Catherine of Valois (1420), daughter to King Charles VI.\n\nIn the first scene of \"Henry VI part 1\" during the funeral procession of Henry V (1422), the duke of Bedford and other noblemen learn of military disasters at the hands of the French, led by the dauphin Charles, future King Charles VII, who successfully recapture several cities on French soil. In act 1 scene 8, the siege of Orleans is lifted (1429) by Charles with the help of Joan of Arc (1412–1431). In act 4, scene 1, during the coronation of Henry VI (1429), the Yorkists wear white roses on their hats, while the Lancastrians wear red roses, prefiguring the War of the Roses (1455–1485). In act 5 scene 6, Joan of Arc is condemned to be burnt alive, but no mention is made of her trial (1431). In the first scene of \"Henry VI part 2\", King Henry VI of England marries Margaret of Anjou in 1445, of the House of Valois, niece to King Charles VII, arranged by the marquis of Suffolk, William de la Pole, 1st Duke of Suffolk as a way to influence the young king through her. In the marriage contract, the English lose the duchy of Anjou and the county of Maine and no dowry is given (Treaty of Tours, 1445). In the final scene, the Yorkists are victorious after the First Battle of St Albans (1455) during the War of the Roses. In the first scene of \"Henry VI part 3\", the Yorkists confront the supporters of Henry VI, who discuss whether the king should accept the issue of the duke of York as king. Queen Margaret refuses to accept that her son, Edward, be disinherited. With her principal commander, Henry Beaufort, 3rd Duke of Somerset, she fights successfully for a while the Yorkists but is eventually defeated by them, whereby the son of Richard Plantagenet, 3rd Duke of York, is proclaimed King Edward IV of England and she sent away to France (1461).\n\nGeorge Chapman wrote \"Bussy D'Ambois\" (1603), \"The Conspiracy and Tragedy of Charles, Duke of Byron\" (1608) and \"The Revenge of Bussy D'Ambois\" (1613), then with John Fletcher, Philip Massinger, and Ben Jonson, \"Rollo Duke of Normandy\"(1633), and with James Shirley \"The Tragedy of Chabot, Admiral of France\" (1639), based on events concerning Louis de Bussy d'Amboise (1549–1579) during the reign of Henry III of France, Charles de Gontaut, duc de Biron (1562–1602) during the reign of Henry IV of France, Rollo (c.846-c.931), Norse nobleman and first ruler of the Viking principality which became Normandy, and Philippe de Chabot (1492–1543) during the reign of Francis I of France.\n\nIn \"Bussy d'Ambois\", one of the duels between Bussy and courtiers, eventually pardoned by Henry III, is mentioned. He seduces the wife of Montsoreau, and the husband traps and kills him (1579) in the final scene. In \"The revenge of Bussy D'Ambois\", King Henry's guards assassinate Henry I, Duke of Guise (1588) (act 5, scene 4).\n\nIn \"The conspiracy of Byron\", the duke's embassies on behalf of King Henry IV (Act 1) followed by his conspiracy with the duke of Savoy (starting with Act 2) are the main subject of the play. In \"The tragedy of Byron\", for his conspiracy with the duke of Savoy, Byron is arrested (Act 4, scene 2), arraigned (Act 5, scene 1), sentenced to death (Act 5, scene 2), and his head is cut off at the prison of Bastille (1602) (Act 5, scene 4, final).\n\nIn \"The Tragedy of Chabot, Admiral of France\", Act 3, scene 2, Chabot is arraigned before a court of justice and condemned (1541). In the final scene, he sickens from being suspected and dies (1543).\n\nJohn Crowne wrote \"The History of Charles the Eighth of France, or The Invasion of Naples by the French\" (1672), based on events during the reign of Charles VIII of France, king from 1483 to 1498.\n\nJohn Dryden and Nathaniel Lee wrote \"The Duke of Guise\" (1683), based on events during the reign of Henry III of France.\n\nEdmund John Eyre wrote \"The Maid of Normandy; or, the Death of the Queen of France\" (1794) concerning Charlotte Corday's murder of Jean-Paul Marat (1793) during the Reign of Terror.\n\nTom Taylor wrote \"Jeanne d'Arc\" (1871), based on the life of Joan of Arc (1412–1431).\n\nSamuel Taylor Coleridge and Robert Southey wrote \"The fall of Robespierre\" (1794), based on events during the French Revolution, when Maximilien Robespierre led the Committee of Public Safety and was instrumental in combating the return of the old regime. In acts 2 and 3, together with Georges Couthon, Louis de Saint-Just, and his brother Augustin Robespierre, he is denounced as a tyrant and traitor by Jean-Lambert Tallien and others during the convention. He is overthrown and arrested (1794).\n\nFanny Kemble wrote Francis the First (play) based on the life of Francis I of France (1494–1547). \n\nSarah Pogson Smith wrote another play on Charlotte Corday's murder of Jean-Paul Marat (1793) during the Reign of Terror, entitled \"The Female Enthusiast\" (1807).\n\nDion Boucicault wrote \"Louis XI\" (1855), an adaptation of a French play of the same title (1832) by Casimir Delavigne, based on events during the reign of Louis XI of France (1461–1483).\n\nEdward Bulwer-Lytton wrote \"Richelieu\" (1839) based on the cardinal of the same name who dominated political events during the reign of Louis XIII of France (1601–1643).\n\nHarry Forrest and Paolo Giacometti wrote \"Marie Antoinette\"(1890), based on the life of Marie Antoinette.\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw wrote \"The Man of Destiny\" (1897), based on events during the reign of Emperor Napoleon I of France (1769–1821). In the one-act play, General Napoleon Bonaparte has beaten the Austrians during the First Italian campaign at the Battle of Lodi (1796). Having recently married Joséphine de Beauharnais, he intercepts a letter meant to betray his wife's attachment to his friend, Paul François Jean Nicolas, vicomte de Barras (1755–1829), main executive leader of the Directory regime (1795–1799).\n\nAnother play on Bonaparte includes Richmond Sheffield Dement's \"Napoleon\" (1893).\n\nHerbert Trench wrote his own \"Napoleon\" (1919).\n\nPercy MacKaye wrote \"Jeanne d'Arc\" (1906), based on the life of Joan of Arc.\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw also wrote on the life of Joan of Arc: \"Saint Joan\" (1923). In the first scene, Joan, with support from Jean de Metz and Bertrand de Poulengy, successfully petitions the garrison commander at Vaucouleurs, Robert de Baudricourt, for permission to visit the French royal court at Chinon (1429). During scene 4, mention is made of Joan's raising the siege of Orléans (1429) with Jean de Dunois, John of Orléans. Joan's trial at Rouen occurs in scene 6, with Pierre Cauchon, bishop of Beauvais as the main interrogator, where she is condemned to be burnt alive for heresy (1431).\n\nAnother play on Joan of Arc includes Joan la Romée (1926) by Frank Harris. There is also \"Joan of Lorraine\" (1946) by Maxwell Anderson. In a play-within-a-play framework, an acting company stage a dramatisation of the story of Joan of Arc.\n\nWilliam Devereux wrote \"Henry of Navarre\" (1909), based on the life of the eventual King Henry IV of France.\n\nMadame du Barry, mistress of King Louis XV, is the subject of a 1901 play named after her by David Belasco.\n\nDoug Wright wrote \"Quills\" (1996), based on the life of the Marquis de Sade in the years of his imprisonment at Charenton, starting in 1803. The director of the institution, Abbé de Coulmier, seeks to prevent the marquis from communicating his writings, such as his novel, \"Justine\". The relations between the marquis and Madeleine Leclerc, daughter of an employee at Charenton, are described.\n\n\"Marie Antoinette: the color of flesh\" (2007) by Joel Gross depicts the times of the young French queen while exploited by her portrait-painter, Élisabeth-Louise Vigée-Le Brun.\n\nIn \"Henry III of France\" (2010), King Henry III of France struggles against the influence of Henry I, Duke of Guise (1588) during the French wars of religion, both killed, the latter by the king (1588, act 4, scene 4), the former by Jacques Clément, disguised as a priest (1589, act 5, scene 7, final scene).\n"}
{"id": "26472062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26472062", "title": "Golden Minbar International Film Festival", "text": "Golden Minbar International Film Festival\n\nThe International Festival of Muslim Cinema Golden Minbar is an annual event which provides a forum for Muslim filmmakers. It is a showcase for Islamic Cinema and Muslim Cinema. It provides a place for meetings and an exchange of experience among the filmmakers of Russia, the Muslim countries and the world. The festival is open to not only Muslims, but also the representatives of other faiths creating films.\n\nThe high award of the festival is the Golden Minbar statuette in the shape of a reel of cine-film with the ends transforming into the waves carrying the ark with a Minbar - a place from where the Imam preaches.\n\nThe First International Festival Of Muslim Cinema \"Golden Minbar\" took place in the capital of the Russian republic of Tatarstan - Kazan - from the 5th to 11 September 2005 and was devoted to the 1000th anniversary of Kazan. About 20 countries took part in the festival. Like the first festival, the second «Golden minbar» festival also was held in Kazan under the motto «religious tolerance and political correctness». A total of 175 pictures from 25 countries were sent in.\n\nFor the third International festival of Muslim cinema \"Golden minbar\", the guest of honour at the festival in Kazan\nwas the French actress Catherine Deneuve and Kazakhstan's ambassador to UNESCO Olzhas Suleimenov.\n\nNow, more than 40 countries take part in the festival.\n\nFeature film\nThe International Jury for full and short-length feature films presents prizes as follows:\n\nStatuette awarded to full-length feature films:\n\nStatuettes awarded to short-length feature films,:\n\nSpecial statuette:\n\nB-Documentary film\nThe International Jury for full and short-length documentary films presents prizes as follows:\n\nStatuette for:\n\nPrizes at the discretion of their founders:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25089675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25089675", "title": "Herald and Trumpet contest", "text": "Herald and Trumpet contest\n\nIn the 96th Olympiad (396 BC), beside the athletic and artistic competitions, the \"Herald and Trumpet contest\" was added, which was already a formal element of the Olympic ritual performed by the kerykes (heralds) and salpinktai (trumpeters) . Winners were chosen by the clarity of the enunciation and the audibility of their voice or horn blast. Some notable victors were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35550481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35550481", "title": "International Architecture Biennal Rotterdam", "text": "International Architecture Biennal Rotterdam\n\nThe International Architecture Biennale Rotterdam (IABR) is a bi-annual international event bringing together international knowledge and experience in various design disciplines (architecture, urban planning and landscape architecture), and presenting this knowledge and experience to a broader audience.\n\nUnlike other events such as the Venice Biennale of Architecture, the IABR is a thematically designed research biennal; each edition addresses a pressing issue, from the perspective of current (Dutch) practices within an international context, and always with a focus on the future of the city. \n\nThe IABR implements its agenda by means of international research projects, exhibitions, master classes, workshops, conferences, lectures, debates, essays, a website, blogs, a catalogue, book, brochures, film, DVD, etc. Since the fourth edition, in 2009, the IABR has increasingly combined its research projects with concrete urban planning assignments. Particularly in the cities of Rotterdam, Istanbul and São Paulo, the biennale is actively involved in the actual development of the city.\n\nThe 7th edition of the IABR, THE NEXT ECONOMY–, opens in April 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58510084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58510084", "title": "International Puppet Fringe Festival NYC", "text": "International Puppet Fringe Festival NYC\n\nThe International Puppet Fringe Festival NYC (also stylised as IPFFNYC or Puppet Fringe NYC) is a biannual puppet theater fringe festival hosted by Teatro SEA in the Lower East Side of New York City. The festival had its 1st edition in 2018, at the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural and Educational Center, and featured puppet shows, short films and artist talks with international puppet theater companies. The Puppet Fringe Festival is the first ever international fringe festival dedicated to puppetry.\n\nIn its inaugural year, the Puppet Fringe Festival held puppet cabarets hosted by the Puppetry Guild of Greater New York and Great Small Works, as well as an Artist Symposium hosted by UNIMA-USA, an international puppet union founded by Jim Henson in 1966. The Puppet Fringe Festival was produced by Manuel Antonio Moran, the Artistic director of Teatro SEA, and was held at the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural and Educational Center, from the 8th to the 12th August 2018. The Puppet Fringe Festival hosted puppet companies from all around the world, including France, Canada, Puerto Rico and Costa Rica, as well as a handful of companies from the USA itself. The festival's international element was a key aspect of its appeal, with Time Out New York describing the festival as \"a celebration of diversity, inclusion and of course beautiful performances\".\n\nThe inaugural Puppet Fringe Festival was dedicated to José López Alemán, a Puerto Rican artist and Puppet Master for Teatro SEA who had worked in the puppetry industry for over 40 years.\n\nAmong the participating companies in 2018 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2494205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494205", "title": "International Union of Exhibitions and Fairs", "text": "International Union of Exhibitions and Fairs\n\nInternational Union of Exhibitions and Fairs (IUEF) is an association of the leading exhibition centres and trade show related companies from Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, Lithuania, Kazakhstan, United Kingdom. It was founded in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "3411101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3411101", "title": "Joyous Entry", "text": "Joyous Entry\n\nA Joyous Entry (\"Blijde Intrede\", \"Blijde Inkomst\", or \"Blijde Intocht\" in Dutch, \"Joyeuse Entrée\" in French) is the official name used for the ceremonial royal entry — the first official peaceable visit of a reigning monarch, prince, duke or governor into a city — mainly in the Duchy of Brabant or the County of Flanders and occasionally in France, Luxembourg or Hungary, usually coinciding with recognition by the monarch of the rights or privileges to the city, and sometimes accompanied by an extension of them.\n\nThe most recent Joyous Entries took place in 2013 in honour of the Belgian king.\n\nA Joyous Entry is a particular form of, and title for, the general phenomenon of ceremonial entries into cities by rulers or their representatives, which were celebrated with enormous pageantry and festivities throughout Europe from at least the late Middle Ages on. The leading artists available designed temporary decorated constructions such as triumphal arches, groups of musicians and actors performed on stands at which the procession halted, the houses on the processional route decorated themselves with hangings, flowers were thrown, and fountains flowed with wine. The custom began in the Middle Ages and continued until the French Revolution, although less often in Protestant counties after the Reformation. A formal first visit to a city by an inheritor of the throne of Belgium upon his accession and since 1900 for a crown prince upon his marriage, is still referred to as a \"Joyous Entry\", a reminder of this tradition of the rule of law.\n\nIn the Duchy of Brabant the term Joyous Entry was also applied to the charter of liberties that a new ruler was obliged to swear to uphold upon their formal first reception, dating back to the Joyous Entry of 1356. One of the functions of the Council of Brabant was to ensure that new legislation did not contravene or abrogate the liberties established in the Joyous Entry.\n\nIn Belgium this ceremonial reception of the new sovereign has continued since 1830. Ceremonial entries are performed by the new royal couple in the capitals of the provinces after the installation of the King. The same goes for the Duke of Brabant, who after his marriage presents the new duchess of Brabant to the public. The most recent Joyous Entries were organised in honour of King Philippe and Queen Mathilde in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31691400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31691400", "title": "Junta Investigadora de Accidentes de Aviación Civil", "text": "Junta Investigadora de Accidentes de Aviación Civil\n\nJunta Investigadora de Accidentes de Aviación Civil (JIAAC \"Investigative Board of Civil Aviation Accidents\") was the civil aviation accident investigation agency of Venezuela. The JIAAC had its headquarters in Chacao, Caracas, Miranda State. Before its closure, it was an organization under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It was originally the Comité de Investigación de Accidentes Aéreos (CIAA, \"Aircraft Accidents Research Committee\"). Previously the JIAAC was an independent authority of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing. That Ministry was known as the \"Ministerio del Poder Popular para la Infraestructura\" (Ministry of Popular Power for Infrastructure) from January 2007 to March 2009, and was previously the \"Ministerio para la Infraestructura\" (Ministry for Infrastructure, Minfra). Lorllys Ramos Acevedo was the final director of the JIAAC.\n\nNow Venezuela has the \"Dirección General para la Prevención e Investigación de Accidentes Aeronáuticos\", under the Ministry of Aquatic and Air Transport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "950234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950234", "title": "Karyn Kupcinet", "text": "Karyn Kupcinet\n\nKaryn Kupcinet (March 6, 1941 – November 28, 1963) was an American stage, film, and television actress. She was the only daughter of Chicago columnist and television personality Irv Kupcinet.\n\nKupcinet had a brief acting career during the early 1960s. Six days after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, her body was found at her West Hollywood, California, home. It has been theorized that Kupcinet's death, officially ruled a homicide, was connected to the assassination or was the result of an accidental fall. In the 1960s, Irv Kupcinet publicly dismissed the theories linking his daughter to the President's death. In 1992, \"The Today Show\" referred briefly to her alleged connection to the assassination, which prompted Kupcinet to describe the television broadcast as \"an atrocious outrage\" and \"calumny\". Karyn Kupcinet's death remains officially unsolved.\n\nKupcinet was born Roberta Lynn Kupcinet' in Chicago to Irv Kupcinet, a sportswriter for the \"Chicago Daily Times\", and his wife, Esther \"Essee\" Solomon Kupcinet. She acquired the nickname \"Cookie\" during her childhood. She made her acting debut at age 13 in the Chicago production of \"Anniversary Waltz\", and went on to attend Pine Manor College for a semester, eventually studying at the Actors Studio in New York City.\n\nKupcinet was encouraged into acting by her mother, and was given access to producers through the reputation of her father and his \"Kup's Column\" in the \"Sun-Times\". In 1961, Jerry Lewis offered Kupcinet a role in the film \"The Ladies Man\", where she appeared in a bit part as one of dozens of young ladies in a Hollywood boardinghouse. In 1962, she appeared in the role of Annie Sullivan in a Laguna Beach summer theater production of \"The Miracle Worker\". She appeared in guest roles on television, including \"The Donna Reed Show\", \"The Wide Country\", \"G.E. True\", and \"Going My Way\". In addition to guest spots, Kupcinet had a regular role in the primetime series \"Mrs. G. Goes to College\" (retitled \"The Gertrude Berg Show\" during its short run).\n\nKupcinet's last onscreen appearance was on \"Perry Mason\" in the role of Penny Ames, entitled, \"The Case of the Capering Camera\". The episode aired on CBS on January 16, 1964, nearly two months after her death. It was also the final on-screen appearance of Ray Collins, who was no longer able to do the show due to his emphysema. Collins played Lt. Tragg.\n\nBy 1961, Kupcinet was living in Hollywood and was getting positive reviews for her acting. In March 1962, a \"Los Angeles Times\" interviewer, assigned to help Kupcinet promote \"The Gertrude Berg Show\", noted her talking exclusively about food and her weight.\n\nIn December 1962, Kupcinet filmed a guest-star appearance on \"The Wide Country\" and had her first meeting with one of the series' stars, Andrew Prine, and began a relationship with him. However, the relationship was problematic, Kupcinet was abusing diet pills along with other prescription drugs, and she had been arrested for shoplifting.\n\nThe problems in Kupcinet's relationship with Prine were mainly due to Prine's objections to making the relationship exclusive. After Kupcinet underwent an illegal abortion in July 1963, the relationship cooled and Prine began dating other women. In turn, Kupcinet began spying on Prine and his new girlfriend.\n\nThe Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department later determined Kupcinet had sent threatening and profane messages, consisting of words and letters she had cut out of magazines, to Prine and herself. When Prine told her by telephone about the messages that had been left on his doorstep, she said she had received them, too. They met to show the messages to each other. She seemed puzzled. Soon after her death, investigators for the sheriff's department found her fingerprints on the papers and the Scotch tape.\n\nThe weight problems had started in high school when Kupcinet began taking diet pills. Her weight remained an issue while at Pine Manor College. The pressure to stay thin intensified after Kupcinet arrived in Hollywood, and she soon began abusing diet pills along with other prescription drugs.\n\nOn the last day of her life, Kupcinet had dinner with future \"Lost in Space\" cast member Mark Goddard and his wife, Marcia Rogers Goddard, at their house on Coldwater Canyon Drive in Beverly Hills (near Mulholland Drive). She was due there at 6:30 pm, but arrived an hour late by taxicab. The couple said Kupcinet only toyed with her food during the meal. Marcia Goddard told two officers from the L.A. County Sheriff's Office that during dinner with Kupcinet \"... her lips seemed numb. Her voice was funny. She moved her head at odd angles.\" The Goddards also noticed that her pupils were constricted. Mark Goddard told authorities that he confronted Kupcinet about her altered state during the meal, and she began to cry, putting her arm around him. At one point during the meal, Kupcinet told her friends an unsubstantiated story about a baby that had been abandoned on her doorstep earlier that day. At 8:30 pm, a taxicab arrived to take her home, and she promised to telephone the Goddards soon.\n\nKupcinet apparently went straight home after dining with her friends. She was visited by freelance writer Edward Stephen Rubin shortly afterward. The two were then joined by actor Robert Hathaway around 9:30 pm. They told detectives they watched TV, including \"The Danny Kaye Show\", with Kupcinet. They all drank coffee until she fell asleep, sitting next to them on the couch. She awoke and went to her room. The men either turned the TV set off or simply lowered the volume (three days later it was still playing with a low volume), and made sure the door was locked behind them before departing at about 11:15 pm. Hathaway said Rubin and he returned to his place and were later joined by Kupcinet's boyfriend, Andrew Prine, who was also Hathaway's neighbor. The three young men watched television and talked until around 3:00 am.\n\nThe Goddards went to Kupcinet's apartment on November 30, after she failed to telephone the couple as promised. Mark Goddard stated that he had a \"funny feeling\" that something was wrong. Upon arriving at Kupcinet's apartment, the couple found her nude body lying on the couch. Mark Goddard initially assumed that she had died from a drug overdose. Upon searching Kupcinet's apartment, police found prescriptions for Desoxyn, Miltown, Amvicel, and other medications. Authorities also found a note written by Kupcinet that reflected in some detail her emotions regarding issues in her life (i.e., parents, self-image, problems with boyfriend) and people she admired.\n\nCoroner Harold Kade concluded that due to a broken hyoid bone in her throat, Kupcinet had been strangled. Her death was officially ruled a homicide.\n\nInvestigators from the L. A. County Sheriff's Office determined that Kupcinet had told Andrew Prine by telephone the same story about the abandoned baby that she had told the Goddards, and it was false. Neither the sheriff's office nor the Los Angeles Police Department had received a report of a baby found abandoned anywhere in her apartment building on her last day alive or the previous day.\n\nDuring the course of their investigation, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department named Andrew Prine as one of their chief suspects. When questioned by law enforcement, Prine said he had talked with Kupcinet twice by phone on Wednesday, the day before her murder, claiming he was trying to patch up a lover's quarrel between them. Detectives considered it possible that after Prine learned the anonymous threat letters both he and Kupcinet had received had been created by Kupcinet herself, that and their unresolved argument gave him a motive for murder. In addition, both Edward Rubin and Robert Hathaway, the two men who had possibly been the last to see her alive, were friends of Prine. They were also eventually named as suspects.\n\nIn 1988, Kupcinet's father Irv published a memoir in which he revealed that he and his wife Essee (Karyn's mother) believed that Andrew Prine had had nothing to do with Karyn's\nmurder. He was suspicious of a person, still alive when he wrote his memoir, who had no connection to Prine.\n\nKupcinet's death was first mentioned in connection with the John F. Kennedy assassination in 1967 by researcher Penn Jones, Jr. in the self-published book \"Forgive My Grief II\". Jones cited an Associated Press wire service story about an unidentified woman who placed a phone call on November 22, 1963, from the vicinity of Oxnard, California, about 50 miles northwest of Los Angeles, and Jones claimed this woman was Kupcinet.\n\nThe woman, who dialed her local operator roughly 20 minutes before the shooting of the president in Dallas, stated that he was going to be shot. Jones alleged that \"Karyn Kupcinet\" was attempting to warn someone of the impending assassination. Jones claimed that she was told of the imminent assassination by her father, who allegedly had been given advance notice by Oswald's killer Jack Ruby, whom Irv Kupcinet had met in Chicago in the 1940s.\n\nJones speculated Karyn Kupcinet had been murdered by representatives of the Italian-American Mafia who silenced her and sent a message to her father to remain silent about why JFK and Oswald had been shot and who was actually responsible.\nIrv Kupcinet denied that he or his daughter had prior knowledge of the shootings of the president or Oswald. This was supported by Karyn Kupcinet's friends, actor Earl Holliman, Holliman's then-girlfriend, and Karyn's boyfriend Andrew Prine, all of whom traveled to Palm Springs with Karyn on November 22. Karyn Kupcinet reportedly seemed upset and shocked about television and radio coverage of the shootings that she saw and heard in Palm Springs. She did not reveal any foreknowledge of the events.\n\nIn 2013, the \"Ventura County Star\" commemorated the 50th anniversary of the JFK assassination with a long article about the unknown woman who had used a phone in the vicinity of Oxnard, 50 miles away from Karyn Kupcinet's home, immediately before the shooting of JFK. Citing FBI documents that were declassified decades after the events of November 1963, the \"Ventura County Star\" article claims that two telephone operators with General Telephone Company who listened to the unknown woman talking for approximately 15 minutes gave the FBI a description of her voice. FBI agents questioned the two operators a very short time after JFK's death. Their description did not match Kupcinet's voice in the slightest, especially regarding her age bracket. The 2013 \"Ventura County Star\" article adds that the two operators believed the woman on the phone was \"mentally disturbed.\"\n\nRegarding Irv Kupcinet's connection to Jack Ruby, one year his senior, the Warren Commission determined that many men in their age bracket had interacted with Ruby in Chicago before 1947, when he moved from Chicago to Dallas. The Commission questioned many Chicagoans who had interacted with Ruby. None of them had prior knowledge that he was going to shoot Oswald.\n\nDuring the production and subsequent release of Oliver Stone's film \"JFK\", Irv Kupcinet attacked the movie and the conspiracy theories surrounding it. When the film's box-office success led to a wave of media attention about the JFK conspiracy, NBC's \"Today Show\" broadcast a list of mysterious deaths, including that of Karyn Kupcinet. Irv Kupcinet responded to the \"Today\" broadcast in his column in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" of February 9, 1992:\n\nThe book left the impression that some on the list may have been killed to silence them because of knowledge of the assassination. Nothing could be further from the truth in my daughter's case. The list apparently has developed a life of its own and for \"Today\" to repeat the calumny is reprehensible. Karyn no longer can suffer pain by such an inexcusable mention, but her parents and her brother Jerry can.\n\nOn September 30, 1999, an episode of \"E! True Hollywood Story\", entitled \"Death of a Dream: Karyn Kupcinet\", detailed Kupcinet's life and theories regarding her death.\n\nIrv and Essee Kupcinet established a playhouse at Shimer College in her honor.\n\nIn 1971, Irv Kupcinet and his wife also founded the Karyn Kupcinet International School for Science, a summer research internships program at the Weizmann Institute of Science.\n\nIn 2007, Kupcinet's niece, actress Kari Kupcinet-Kriser, and Washburn University professor Paul Fecteau, began work on a book about Kupcinet's unsolved murder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47642198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47642198", "title": "Keskilaakso", "text": "Keskilaakso\n\nKeskilaakso is a newspaper published typically tuesdays and thursdays in Kouvola, Finland.\n\n\"Keskilaakso\" was established 1931 with a name \"Kymen Keskilaakso\". First publishing in November 1931, at that time, editor-in-chief was F. A. Havola. 1975 name became to be \"Anjalankosken Sanomat\" and at 2007 newspaper was named to Keskilaakso.\n\n"}
{"id": "22807112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22807112", "title": "Kuhikugu", "text": "Kuhikugu\n\nKuhikugu is an archaeological site located in Brazil, at the headwaters of the Xingu River, in the Amazon Rainforest. The area around Kuhikugu is located in part of the Xingu National Park today. Kuhikugu was first uncovered by anthropologist Michael Heckenberger, working alongside the local Kuikuro people, who are the likely descendants of the original inhabitants of Kuhikugu. \n\nIn the broad sense, the name refers to an archaeological complex including twenty towns and villages, spread out over an area of around , where close to 50,000 people may have once lived. Kuhikugu was likely inhabited from a period of time around 1,500 years ago to a time as recently as 400 years ago, when the people living there were likely killed by diseases brought over by Europeans. \n\nStrictly speaking, Kuhikugu is settlement X11 of this complex, located near Porto dos Meinacos on the eastern shore of Lake Kuhikugu (now Lagoa Dourada) at . There, as well as at other former settlements of the Kuhikugu complex, satellite imagery reveals that even today the forest differs from surrounding pristine areas, and ground-based exploration reveals this to be an effect of the anthrosol (cf. \"terra preta\"), known to the Kuikuro as \"egepe\". Directly to the north of the X11 site there is a Kuikuro village, the small size of which provides an interesting comparison to the large area of \"egepe\" which indicates the prehistoric settlement.\n\nLarge defensive ditches and palisades were built around some of the communities at Kuhikugu. Large plazas also exist at some of the towns throughout the region, some around across. Many of the communities at Kuhikugu were linked, with roads which bridged some rivers along their paths, and with canoe canals running alongside some of the roads. Fields of mandioca (cassava) may have existed around the communities at Kuhikugu, suggesting that the people there were farmers. Dams and ponds which appear to have been constructed in the area also suggest that the inhabitants of Kuhikugu may have been involved with fish farming, which is still practised by some of their modern day Kuikuro descendants.\n\nThere is a possibility that legends regarding Kuhikugu may have influenced the British explorer Lieutenant Colonel Percy Fawcett to go on his ill-fated last expedition in 1925, looking through the Amazon rainforest for what he called \"City Z\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40513602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40513602", "title": "Lagos Countdown", "text": "Lagos Countdown\n\nThe Lagos Countdown, now One Lagos Fiesta, is an annual New Year's Eve event at the Bar Beach in Lagos. The event lasts for 21–23 days and traditionally begins on the 7th or 8 December and lasts through January 1 of the new year. The first Lagos Countdown was held in 2012 as an attempt to drive up tourism and make an event similar to New Year's events in New York, Sydney, and other major cities, and in 2013 an estimated 200,000 people celebrated the event during a ten-day period and earned the city about one billion naira.\n\nFestivities for the countdown typically include fireworks, live music concerts, and karaoke. Performers at various countdowns have included Tuface Idibia, Olamide, and Funke Akindele, and previous countdown sponsors have included Airtel Nigeria.\n\nThe 2013 Lagos Countdown was met with criticism from some participants as ticket distribution was held differently from the 2012 event, as tickets were not free and required that many participants purchase their own tickets via scalpers or to acquire tickets via Countdown sponsors. When asked about this, the corporate affairs manager of LASAA responded that while tickets were not intended to have been sold, the different distribution tactics were enacted as a form of crowd control and to avoid potential issues due to overcrowded space.\n\nLagos Countdown was renamed One Lagos Fiesta in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "34114636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34114636", "title": "Muscovite Civil War", "text": "Muscovite Civil War\n\nThe Muscovite Civil War, or Great Feudal War, was a prolonged conflict that cast its shadow over the entire reign of Vasily II of Moscow (from 1425 to 1453). The two warring parties were Vasily II, the Grand Prince of Moscow, as one party, and his uncle, Yury Dmitrievich, the Prince of Zvenigorod, and the sons of Yuri Dmitrievich, Vasily Kosoy and Dmitry Shemyaka, as the other party. In the intermediate stage, the party of Yury conquered Moscow, but in the end, Vasily II regained his crown. It was the first civil war in the history of Muscovy, whose largely peaceful rise had been predicated on a lack of conflict within the ruling family.\n\nThe Mongol invasions of 1236-1241 left the Russian principalities subjugated by the Golden Horde. In the 13th-15th centuries, the Khan of the Golden Horde appointed the Great Prince, who in the 14th century resided in Moscow. In the 13th century the medieval Rus' consisted of a set of relatively small and weak principalities, fighting and making alliances against each other. The larger states (like the Grand Duchy of Moscow and the Republic of Novgorod) progressively conquered or absorbed the smaller ones. One bigger principality, the Grand Duchy of Moscow, grew due to a series of clever policies and became the biggest one in central Rus'. In 1380 Dmitry Donskoy, the prince of Moscow, even managed to fight the troops of Golden Horde in the Battle of Kulikovo and win. Whereas formally Moscow remained dependent on the Horde, and the Khan needed to approve position of the Prince, the Grand Duchy of Moscow had become a major regional power, and the Moscow princes aimed to conquer the remaining lands around Moscow and to append them to their Grand Duchy.\n\nIn 1389, Dmitry Donskoy died. He appointed his son Vasily Dmitrievich as successor, with the provision that if Vasily were to die as an infant, his brother, Yury Dmitrievich, would be the successor. Vasily died in 1425 and left a child, Vasily Vasilyevich, whom he appointed as the Grand Prince (known as Vasily II). This was against the existing rule, where the oldest living brother and not a son, should have received the crown. Yury thus became a pretender and moved from Zvenigorod, his main residence, to Galich, to be farther from Moscow. \n\nIn 1428 Yury Dmitrievich formally conceded, under pressure from Metropolitan Photius, who personally travelled to Galich. However, in 1431 Yury decided to seek the title of Prince of Moscow with the Khan of the Horde. The Khan ruled in favor of Vasily, and additionally ordered Yury to give Vasily the town of Dmitrov, which he owned. The formal pretext to start a war was found in 1433, when during the marriage feast of Vasily his mother, Sophia of Lithuania, insulted Vasily Yuryevich, the son of Yury, in public. Both sons of Yury, Vasily and Dmitry, left for Galich. They plundered Yaroslavl, ruled by an allied of Vasily II, allied with their father, collected an army, and defeated the army of Vasily II. Subsequently, Yury Dmitrievich entered Moscow, declared himself the Great Prince, and sent Vasily II to Kolomna. Eventually, however, he did not prove himself as an efficient head of state, having alienated some Muscovites who fled to Kolomna, and even alienating his own sons. Eventually, Yury allied with Vasily II against the sons of Yury and returned the Moscow Princedom to Vasily II, who, in his turn, started to persecute former supporters of Yury. Vasily then sent an army against his cousins, sons of Yury, Vasily Yuryevich and Dmitry Shemyaka, in 1434. His army was defeated in a major battle, in which troops of Yury were fighting against Vasily. Vasily conquered Galich, and Yury openly joined his sons. The army of Vasily II was finally defeated close to Rostov. Yury became the Prince of Moscow again, but suddenly died, and his son, Vasily Yuryevich, became his successor. At this point, Vasily II was in Nizhny Novgorod and was preparing to travel to the Horde to leave a complaint with the Khan.\n\nThe brothers of Vasily Yuryevich — Dmitry Shemyaka and Dmitry Krasny — refused to lend him any support. Anticipating that Vasily would not be able to keep Moscow for long, they preferred to ally with Vasily II so that eventually they could get additional lands from him. Indeed, Vasily gave Rzhev and Uglich to Dmitry Shemyaka and Bezhetsky Verkh to Dmitry Krasny. Vasily Yuryevich was driven out of Moscow; he also lost Zvenigorod to Vasily II and was left landless, forced to flee to Novgorod. \n\nIn 1435, Vasily managed to collect an army in Kostroma and moved in the direction of Moscow. He lost a battle on the bank of the Kotorosl River to Vasily II and fled to Kashin. He then managed to conquer Vologda and built up a new army with the support of Vyatka. With this new army he moved again to the south and encountered Vasily II in Kostroma. The two armies were stationed on two banks of the Kostroma River and could not start fighting immediately. Before the fight started, the two cousins concluded a peace treaty. Vasily Yuryevich recognized Vasily II as the Great Prince and got Dmitrov. However, he only spent a month in Dmitrov and subsequently moved to Kostroma and further to Galich and to Veliky Ustyug. In Veliky Ustyug, the army formed in Vyatka, which had supported Yuri Dmitrievich for a long time, and joined Vasily. Vasily Yuryevich plundered Veliky Ustyug and with the army went south again. In early 1436, he lost a battle in Skoryatino, close to Rostov, to Vasily II, and was captured. \n\nSubsequently, when the Vyatka people continued to attack the lands belonging to the Grand Prince, Vasily II ordered to have Vasily Yuryevich blinded. Vasily Yuryevich was known after that as Vasily Kosoy. He lived until 1448, but chronicles do not mention him between 1436 and 1448; apparently he was imprisoned all this time. At the same time Vasily II released Dmitry Shemyaka, who had been exiled to Kolomna, and concluded a treaty with him similar to the treaty he previously concluded with Vasily Kosoy, returning Shemyaka all his lands.\n\nIn the early 1440s Vasily II was mostly busy with the wars against the Khanate of Kazan. The Khan, Ulugh Muhammad, besieged Moscow in 1439. Dmitry Shemyaka, despite being under the oath of allegiance, failed to appear in support of Vasily. After the Tatars left, Vasily chased Shemyaka, forcing him to flee to Novgorod again. Subsequently, Shemyaka returned to Moscow and confirmed his allegiance. In 1444, Tatars led by Mustafa, the Khan of the Golden Horde, plundered the Ryazan lands, before being defeated by a much larger army sent by Vasily. In 1445, Ulugh Muhammad conquered Nizhny Novgorod, was defeated in a skirmish near Murom, but won the second battle in Suzdal, capturing, among other prominent Muscovites, Vasily II.\n\nVasily was released after negotiations, having promised to pay an enormous ransom. This resulted in an increase of taxes and, consequently, in discontent, which strengthened the party of Dmitry Shemyaka. In early 1446, Vasily was captured by Shemyaka in the Trinity Sergius Lavra, brought to Moscow, blinded, and then sent to Uglich. Shemyaka started to reign as the Prince of Moscow. In the fall of 1446 he traveled to Uglich to seek peace with Vasily. They made a deal, Vasily gave an oath of allegiance and promised not to seek the Great Princedom any more, and in return he was released and got Vologda in his possession. In Vologda, Vasily traveled to the Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery, and the hegumen released him from the oath. Vasily immediately started preparations for the war against Shemyaka.\n\nIn addition, Shemyaka and his ally, Prince Ivan of Mozhaysk, ruled inefficiently, did not manage to attract allies, and nobility started to defect from Moscow to Vologda. Vasily also managed to ally with Kazan Tatars. In the end of 1446, when Dmitry Shemyaka was out in Volokolamsk, the army of Vasily II entered Moscow. Vasily then started to chase Shemyaka and Mozheysky, who had to retreat, with both armies ravaging and plundering the country. In 1447, they asked for peace, and agreed to accept the superiority of Vasily. Nevertheless, Dmitry Shemyaka continued resistance, trying to attract the allies and to collect a big enough army to fight against Vasily. In 1448, Vasily started military action, which included mostly Northern lands up to Veliky Ustyug and with some interruptions continued till 1452, when Shemyaka was finally defeated and fled to Novgorod. In 1453, he was poisoned there following a direct order of Vasily.\n\nSubsequently, Vasily managed to remove all local princes who previously supported Shemyaka. In particular, Ivan Mozheysky had to flee with their family to Lithuania, and the Principality of Mozhaysk was made a part of the Grand Duchy of Moscow. Similarly, the Principality of Serpukhov was made a part of the Grand Duchy, and the Principality of Vereya remained after the war the only independent state in Moscow lands.\n"}
{"id": "52142266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52142266", "title": "Operation Niki", "text": "Operation Niki\n\nOperation Niki (), named after the goddess Nike, was a clandestine airlift operation during the Turkish invasion of Cyprus that was carried out on 21/22 July 1974, with the aim of transporting a battalion of Greek commandos from Souda, Crete to Nicosia, Cyprus. Upon their arrival, the aircraft were engaged in friendly fire, which resulted in the loss of 33 men and the destruction of three aircraft.\n\nSince the 1950s, Greece had established a foreign policy favoring the union of Cyprus with Greece. In 1960, the Republic of Cyprus was established with Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots being its two founding communities. Archbishop Makarios was elected as its first President. Makarios came to believe that unification of the island with Greece was not possible and pursued a policy of non-alignment.\n\nAfter a military coup in April 1967, a right-wing military junta seized power in Athens. The Greek juntists suspected Makarios for not being truly in favor of unification and prepared five plans to overthrow him between 1971 and 1974.\nEventually, on 15 July 1974, a military coup d'état orchestrated by the Cypriot National Guard and the junta of Athens succeeded in deposing Makarios and replacing him with nationalist Nikos Sampson. On the pretext of a peacekeeping operation, Turkey took military action code-named Operation Atilla and invaded Cyprus on 20 July 1974.\n\nThe Greek leadership in Athens was largely taken by surprise. The political situation deteriorated rapidly due to the Turkish invasion and the junta was soon at the verge of total collapse. Despite an initial order for implementation, the existing military plans for the reinforcement of the defenses in Cyprus were cancelled. In a climate of confusion and indecision, it was eventually decided to send one commando battalion by air. An initial plan to airlift a battalion based in northern Greece from Thessaloniki airport using requisitioned Boeing 720 aircraft of Olympic Airways was cancelled. Later, it was decided to airlift another unit from Souda airport, using almost the entire transport fleet of the Hellenic Air Force at the time. The unit chosen was the Alpha Raider Squadron reinforced with men from the amphibious-capable Gamma Raider Squadron. Thus, in the late afternoon of July 21, a fleet of 20 Noratlas and 10 C-47 aircraft were relocated to Souda airport, base of the .\n\nAccording to orders, the transport aircraft would secretly take off at night with five minutes separation and fly without fighter escort. To avoid detection, they would fly at low altitudes below 200 ft in full radio silence with minimum lights and no visual contact between them. They would land in Nicosia, unload the force and take off immediately for the return to Greece under the cover of darkness. Each aircraft would carry four airmen (two pilots, a flight engineer and a navigator) and approximately 30 commandos with their weapons and ammunition. It was estimated that the 750 km flight to Cyprus would last around three hours. As a result, the latest time at which an aircraft could take off, fly to Cyprus, unload and depart before dawn was 24:00. The first plane departed Souda at around 22:35 and the departure plan was followed by the first five aircraft. Afterwards, several delays resulted in only thirteen Noratlas aircraft of the managing to take off before the midnight time limit. Two more aircraft, the second of which carried the unit's heavy weapons and ammunition but no troops, ignored orders and took off at 00:20 and 00.23. These planes were numbered in the order of their departure, receiving codes \"Niki-1\" to \"Niki-15\". The remaining five Noratlases and all the C-47 did not take off.\n\nThe Cypriot National Guard lacked an air force, hence Turkey had full air superiority over the island. Turkish Air Force had bombed Nicosia airport and only one third of the runway was usable.\n\nOf the fifteen Noratlases that took off, thirteen made it to Cyprus and the remaining two landed on Crete and Rhodes due to mechanical problems. Upon arrival at Nicosia at around 02:00 AM, the aircraft were engaged by Greek Cypriot anti-aircraft gunners of the 195 MEA/AP battalion, who were uninformed about their arrival and mistook them for a Turkish airborne assault. As a result, the 4th Noratlas (\"Niki-4\") received heavy fire and was shot down two miles short of the runway with the loss of four crew and twenty seven commandos. Two more commandos were killed and ten wounded on-board \"Niki-6\", which landed with both engines severely damaged. One more Noratlas aircraft (\"Niki-3\") was badly damaged and could not take off again. Another aircraft (\"Niki-12\") did not have sufficient fuel for the return flight. These aircraft were destroyed on the ground by Greek-Cypriot forces, following orders of the Hellenic Air Force Headquarters. The rationale for doing so was that Greece was not officially at war with Turkey, thus any evidence of Greek involvement in the operations in Cyprus should be erased. The remaining nine aircraft managed to return safely to Greece after unloading their troops.\n\nThe remains of \"Niki-4\" and the bodies of most of the men it carried were hastily buried on a hill, which is now a military cemetery and war memorial known as Makedonitissa Tomb. In summer 2015, excavations started at Makedonitissa with the aim to recover any human remains. After 14 months, DNA identification of those on board was completed and the remains of sixteen Greek soldiers were handed over to their relatives in early October, 2016, 42 years after their death.\n\nOperation Niki has been characterized as suicidal. It was ill-prepared and used unreliable, ageing aircraft that flew very low with nothing but a gyrocompass to guide them. Most aircraft crews and commandos were unfamiliar with the terrain at their destination. Ground forces at Nicosia had not been notified in time about their arrival. The operation had no tactical justification but merely a symbolic and morale-boosting character. The rationale of an airlift instead of an airdrop operation has also been criticized. Nevertheless, the transported Greek commando unit who was given the Greek Cypriot designation 35 Raider Squadron (35 MK), fought gallantly during the second Turkish invasion of August 1974 and contributed decisively to saving Nicosia from falling into Turkish hands. Ironically, the unit had no casualties in the battlefield. With the exception of the order to Lt Cdr E. Handrinos to turn back his vessel (L-172 \"Lesvos\") and disembark the ELDYK troops he had picked up the previous day, Operation Niki marked the only Greek attempt to reinforce the defense of Cyprus during the invasion. \n\nNo military investigation was ever ordered regarding the circumstances of the tragic loss of Niki-4 and neither anyone was held responsible. The Greek junta collapsed on 23 July 1974, mainly because of the events in Cyprus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5593342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593342", "title": "Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration", "text": "Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration\n\nThe Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration (PRRA) was one of the alphabet agencies of the New Deal established by the administration of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Created on May 28, 1935, the PRRA's first directors included American journalist and politician Ernest Gruening and Puerto Rican educator and politician Carlos Chardón. Falling under the authority of the Department of the Interior and the Farm Security Administration (FSA) its primary goals were to establish long term economic stability in Puerto Rico during the Great Depression through job creation, land distribution, public works projects, as well as environmental and health initiatives. The agency was officially liquidated on February 15, 1955.\n\nBy time the Great Depression arrived in 1929, working class Puerto Rican citizens, especially rural agricultural laborers, were already facing economic hardship. After Spain ceded sovereignty of Puerto Rico to the United States following the 1898 Spanish–American War the island increasingly became economically dependent on the United States through an unbalanced colonial trade relationship that favored U.S. sugar, tobacco, coffee, and fruit companies. By 1910, four U.S. sugar corporations held near monopolies on sugar cane cultivation and sugar production had multiplied by 331%. By 1921, the United States Tobacco Trust also held monopolies on cigarette and cigar markets in Puerto Rico, giving them an economic advantage over small scale tobacco farmers. While American companies expanded and profited, sugarcane and other agricultural workers saw little to no change in wages between 1898 and 1920 and Puerto Rican laborers generally experienced a poor standard of living. Malnutrition, poor sanitation, lack of sewage systems, and dangerous working and living conditions led to high mortality rates due to workplace accidents and diseases such as dysentery, diarrhea, malaria, and tuberculosis.\n\nIn the years immediately preceding the depression, negative developments in the island and world economies perpetuated an unsustainable cycle of subsistence for many Puerto Rican workers. The 1920s brought a dramatic drop in Puerto Rico’s two primary exports, raw sugar and coffee, due to a devastating hurricane in 1928 and the plummeting demand from global markets in the latter half of the decade. 1930 unemployment on the island was roughly 36% and by 1933 Puerto Rico’s per capita income dropped 30% (by comparison, unemployment in the United States in 1930 was approximately 8% reaching a height of 25% in 1933). Average wages for employed agricultural workers in 1931 ranged from roughly 23 cents per day for children, 25 cents per day for women, 60 cents per day for men, a number that varied due to the seasonal nature of their employment. Since the majority of Puerto Rico’s arable land was reserved for export crops, 98% of Puerto Rican family income was spent on food and other necessities, which were imported from the United States and sold at inflated prices. In 1930, agricultural exports to U.S. comprised 94.3% of total Puerto Rican exports and food accounted for roughly 33% of total imports by 1935.\n\nHigh unemployment rates and low wages at the start of the Great Depression led to increased labor unrest in Puerto Rico, which alarmed American officials and business interests. Beginning in August 1933 and lasting through the next two years, numerous violent strikes broke out among roughly 16,000 workers in the textile, stevedore, tobacco, taxi, and sugar industries and boycotts were called against American petroleum and electric corporations. American officials were also alarmed by the radical labor organizing leadership of Puerto Rican nationalists Albizu Campos and Jose Enamorado Cuesta who also called for independence from the United States. These factors combined with the economic fallout of the depression prompted the Roosevelt Administration to create relief, recovery and reconstruction policies specifically aimed at Puerto Rico.\n\nThe first New Deal agency created to improve conditions in Puerto Rico was the Puerto Rico Emergency Relief Administration (PRERA) in 1933. The PRERA worked under the authority of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) and through matching grants would provide direct relief funding and the creation of jobs through public works initiatives. Under its directors, the Roosevelt appointee James Bourne, and the island’s governor, the American Robert H. Gore, the PRERA received only $770,000 from the federal government due to oversights in application processes. By the fall of 1933, the PRERA was unable keep up with the flood of relief applications from Puerto Ricans, which totaled approximately 50,000 per month. Adding to the program’s relative ineffectiveness was the 1933 implementation of an agricultural tax under the Agricultural Adjustment Act (AAA). The tax was leveled on surplus crops and served to increase food prices for Puerto Rican families who were already at a financial breaking point. The PRERA’s primary successes came with its implementation of disease control measures, the building highway infrastructure, and in its distribution of food to needy families.\n\nIn 1934, recognizing a need for long term economic recovery and reform, a proposal was crafted by assistant secretary of agriculture, Rexford G. Tugwell, University of Puerto Rico rector Carlos Chardón, and Puerto Rican Liberal Party senator Luis Muñoz Marín. Entitled Plan Chardón, it called for the restructuring and decolonization of the Puerto Rican economy through the government acquisition of private U.S. sugar company land and mills. The acreage and production sites were to be taken under a rarely enforced land tenure measure written into the 1900 Foraker Act and the 1917 Jones Act. The 500-acre law, which stipulated that corporations operating in Puerto Rico were forbidden from owning more than 500 acres of land, was usually circumvented by proxy landownership and absenteeism. Under the proposed Chardón system the confiscated land would be redistributed to small-scale farmers and the landless who would in turn process sugar locally rather than ship it to the United States for refining. Other proposed projects included the creation of island-based fruit and vegetable canning and bottling facilities, and the promotion of island tourism and the cardboard manufacturing industries. The central intent of the plan was to break the monopolies of American corporations, diversify the economy, and to utilize available labor in the promotion of locally sourced industrial and agricultural development with the hope of raising the overall Puerto Rican standard of living. Plan Chardón was never officially enacted, as it did not receive the required approval of the U.S. secretary of agriculture. Further thwarting its implementation were questions of financing and the lobbying of U.S. sugar companies. Critics such as Albizu Campos claimed the plan and subsequent reconstruction efforts were not radical enough in that they still facilitated Puerto Rico’s political and economic cooperation with the United States. Campos also called for a change in the 500-acre law that would amend the land owning quota to 300 acres.\n\nOn May 28, 1935 the Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration (PRRA) was created by President Roosevelt under executive order 7057 and would operate under the authority of the Department of Interior and its secretary Harold Ickes. Modeled on Plan Chardón, the PRRA fell under the direction of American Ernest Gruening and Carlos Chardón. Gruening and Chardón oversaw a large bureaucratic agency whose administrators consisted of young Puerto Rican New Deal liberals, many of whom would become integral actors, along with Luis Muñoz Marín, in creating the pro-United States Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico (\"Partido Popular Democratico\", or PPD) in 1938. With the $35 million in allotted federal funds it received in late 1935, the PRRA instituted a variety of initiatives that were mostly experimental in nature, but geared toward changing the Puerto Rican socioeconomic infrastructure.\n\nIn the early years of its existence, the PRRA’s projects included the creation of public housing and parks as well as the construction of a fully functional cement factory, which provided essential materials for the construction of hurricane proof buildings. In 1935 and 1936 it purchased the Ponce Electric Company and two large centrals (sugar processing factories) in Arroyo and Arecibo. Island wide, it established health clinics and parasite eradication programs for farm animals and crops. Additionally, the PRRA built a model coffee farm and instituted reforestation and soil erosion projects in Puerto Rico’s rural regions. The PRRA also organized a Producer’s Association among small coffee and fruit farmers, which offered financial assistance and provided instruction in the use of new agricultural and marketing techniques. By 1936 the administration had employed between 50,000 and 60,000 Puerto Rican workers.\n\nThe most enduring program of the PRRA was its rural electrification program. The project facilitated the construction of seven hydroelectric dams and extended power lines and stations across the island, bringing affordable power to thousands of rural citizens for the first time in Puerto Rico’s history. In addition to providing power, the hydroelectric dams also provided crucial flood control, irrigation for crops, and improved the quality of drinking water. The electrification program also helped to create the infrastructure for the future urban industrialization efforts under Operation Bootstrap.\n\nAlthough another initial intention of Chardón-influenced PRRA was to seek enforcement of the 500-acre law and aid in land distribution among Puerto Rican citizens, the agency took no steps in this regard as it was not within its legal power to do so. Legal enforcement of the 500-acre law came with the Puerto Rican government’s 1940 victory in a U.S. Supreme Court case against the Robert Hermanos Company, which owned 12,000 acres on the island. This pivotal lawsuit upheld the validity of the 500-acre law and set the stage for subsequent land reform in the 1940s. In 1941, the Land Authority of Puerto Rico was created under legislation entitled Law 26 of April 12, 1941. The Land Authority’s \"parcelas\" provision allowed for the allotment of one to three acres of land to many poor, rural landless workers. With Chardón as its head, by 1945 the organization had parceled out plots to 14,000 families and by 1959 the number of families with acreage reached 52,287. Puerto Rican New Deal policies also did little in the way in improving wages for the island’s workers. In 1940, the average per capita income for Puerto Rican workers remained roughly the same as per capita income from1930. From its inception other problems such as minor financial mismanagement, opposition from members of the U.S. Congress and sugar companies also plagued the PRRA, and it was also criticized by the Puerto Rican Republican-Socialist coalition for purported political and economic corruption. Three years after its inception, statistics show that PRRA expenditures often benefitted business interests in the United States. By 1938, the program’s total funding had reached $57,953,189.00 an estimated 12 percent of which had been used to buy goods and supplies from the mainland. Additionally, approximately 80 cents per dollar spent by the administration was funneled back into the United States economy.\n\nThe PRRA was officially dismantled by an act of Congress (67 Stat 584, August 15, 1953) on February 15, 1955, but its actual demise began as early as the late 1930s. In 1939, the administration received only $7 million in operating costs, just over half of its estimated budgetary requirements of $13 million and due to economic constraints, several of its initiatives were stalled. As a result, the insular government increasingly gained financial and administrative control over many of the PRRA’s projects. Particularly hard hit were educational, health, and sanitation facilities. By World War II, Puerto Rico was forced to limit the services of or close numerous health care clinics, hospitals, and schools. Puerto Rico’s location in the Caribbean and proximity to the United States, the Panama Canal, and Cuba made a place of strategic importance during World War II and the Cold War. Although the PRRA continued to receive aid from Washington, D.C. until 1955, most of its funding was directed toward the military fortification of the island rather than on its initial goal of economic reform.\n"}
{"id": "4633505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4633505", "title": "Quentin Tarantino Film Festival", "text": "Quentin Tarantino Film Festival\n\nThe Quentin Tarantino Film Festival, or QT-Fest, is a semi-annual film and multimedia event held by the Austin Film Society in Austin, Texas and attended by film director Quentin Tarantino. Most recently, the Alamo Drafthouse theater in downtown Austin, Texas has been the selected venue. The event usually takes place for a few days, and Tarantino screens a selection of his favorite films using prints he owns.\n\nUsually Tarantino programs films to a theme such as 1980s horror night or Italian crime films of the 1970s. All films come from his private collection of prints and generally have influenced the creation of his own films. He uses the festival not only as a platform to show off his collection of rare film reels but also to promote forgotten genres, directors, actors or studios.\n\nThe festival has taken place six times, plus a \"best of\" featuring films shown in previous festivals. Tarantino introduces all the films himself, shows trailers for all kinds of films and discusses the films with attendees. He does not talk about himself or his movies during the festival, preventing journalists or fans from gaining information about current or future projects. However, as in the case of QT 5, he has used the festival to set the mood for coming projects or showcase some of the influences on his work.\n\nQT Fest started in 1997 at the Dobie Theater near the University of Texas. The event moved to the Alamo Drafthouse Downtown for QT3, where it remained until the site's closure in 2007. After QT 5 in 2001, there was a hiatus before QT 6 in 2005.\n\nThis showing was held in 1997.\nThis showing was held in 1998.\nThis showing was held in 1999.\nThis showing was held in 2000.\nThis showing was held in 2001.\nThis showing was held in October 2005.\nThis showing was a 7-day event held from April 24, 2006 until April 30, 2006.\nTo mark the closure of the Alamo Drafthouse Downtown, Tarantino organized a three-night mini-festival. This was not an official QT-Fest, but followed the same format, with three themed triple bills. It was held May 10 to May 13, 2007, with a break on May 12.\n\nSex Comedy Night May 10\n\nRedneck Night May 11\n\nSwinging Night\n\n"}
{"id": "46961876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46961876", "title": "Rachel Dolezal", "text": "Rachel Dolezal\n\nNkechi Amare Diallo (born November 12, 1977), born and still commonly known as Rachel Anne Doležal is an American former civil rights activist known for claiming to be a black woman while being of white-European ancestry and having no known black or African ancestry. Doležal was president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) chapter in Spokane, Washington from 2014 until June 2015, when she resigned in the midst of controversy over her racial identity. She received further public scrutiny when her white parents publicly stated that Doležal was a white woman passing as black. The statement by Doležal's parents in June 2015 followed Doležal's reports to police and local news media that she had been the victim of hate crimes; however, a subsequent police investigation cast doubt on Doležal's allegations. \n\nDoležal, who maintains that she identifies as black, fueled a national debate in the United States about racial identity. Doležal's critics state that she has committed cultural appropriation and fraud; Doležal and her defenders state that her self-identification is genuine, even if not based on race or ancestry. In a November 2015 television interview, Doležal publicly stated for the first time since the controversy began that she was born white but still identified as black.\n\nIn the aftermath of the controversy, Doležal was dismissed from her position as an Instructor in Africana Studies at Eastern Washington University and removed by the Spokane City Council as Chair of the Police Ombudsman Commission over \"a pattern of misconduct.\" She subsequently published her memoir, \"In Full Color\", where she defended her claims. Netflix has released a documentary on Doležal, \"The Rachel Divide\", which describes her history and self-identification, and examines the arguments of her and her critics. \n\nDoležal was charged by the State of Washington with felony theft, perjury and welfare fraud in May 2018. Prosecutors claim that she lied about her assets and was financially secure (with tens of thousands of dollars in donations and other revenue) at the time she was receiving welfare and claiming to be indigent.\n\nDoležal was born in Lincoln County, Montana, on November 12, 1977, to parents Ruthanne (née Schertel) and Lawrence \"Larry\" Doležal, who are white and primarily of Czech, German and Swedish origin; she was born as a blue-eyed blonde. Doležal's parents have been married since 1974. Rachel has an older biological brother, Joshua, who authored a book about their upbringing in Montana. He currently serves as a full Professor of English Studies at Central College in Iowa. When Doležal was a teenager, her parents adopted three African-American children and one black Haitian child. \n\nDoležal has said she was born and lived in a teepee and that the family had hunted for their food with bow and arrow. Her mother stated that she and Doležal's father briefly lived in a teepee in 1974, three years before their daughter was born, and that Doležal's claims were \"totally false\". From 2002 to 2006, her parents and adopted siblings lived in South Africa as Christian missionaries. Doležal said she lived in South Africa as a child, but her family disputes the claim.\n\nDoležal was raised as a Pentecostal. She has contended that her parents frequently abused her; in a 2017 interview, she claimed she was taught to believe that \"everything that came naturally, instinctively was wrong\"—a point that was \"literally beaten into us\". Her biological brother, Joshua, and her adoptive brother, Izaiah, have also claimed that they were abused by their parents. Izaiah sought to be emancipated at the age of 16 after claiming that Larry and Ruthanne not only beat him and his siblings, but also threatened to send them to group homes if they didn't obey. Her brother Ezra Doležal has denied the accusations of physical punishment.\n\nDoležal was homeschooled via the Christian Liberty Academy CLASS program, achieving a 4.0 GPA. She was one of several co-valedictorians upon graduation in 1996. She won a $2,000 scholarship for college awarded by Tandy Leather for her entry in their 1996 Leather Art contest. In 1998 she entered art works at Spokane's annual Juneteenth celebration; she expressed African-American themes through collages and mixed-media works. Her family drove three hours from their home in Montana to enable her to display her work in Spokane. Doležal's father told a \"Spokesman-Review\" newspaper reporter that Rachel had never heard of Juneteenth, the event commemorating the abolition of slavery, until she learned of it via an Internet search while looking for a venue to show her art work.\n\nFollowing the completion of high school, Doležal attended Belhaven University in Jackson, Mississippi, receiving her bachelor's degree in 2000. After Belhaven, she attended Howard University, a historically black college in Washington, D.C., completing a Master of Fine Arts degree there in 2002. \n\nHer parents and brother said that when Doležal applied to Howard, because of her art work, the admissions office assumed she was black and awarded her a scholarship. Her younger brother, Ezra Doležal, said that \"because of her work in African American art, they thought she was a Black student during her application, but they ended up with a White person\". Her father said, \"eyes were popping and jaws were dropping because they couldn't believe they had given a full scholarship to a white girl\", although he stressed that \"she didn't pose as black; she just sounded black on the phone\". Her thesis at Howard was a series of paintings presented from the perspective of a black man, and sparked a controversy. Dean Tritobia Hayes Benjamin, a specialist on black women in the arts, questioned whether Doležal was qualified as a white woman to tell this type of story. Doležal later said that she was drugged and sexually assaulted by a \"trusted mentor\" when attending Howard University, and that \"suing was nearly impossible\". \nIn 2002, Doležal unsuccessfully sued Howard University for discrimination based on \"race, pregnancy, family responsibilities and gender, as well as retaliation\".\n\nDoležal created a fountain sculpture installed in a downtown Spokane location in June 2005. The sculpture was on display until the end of that summer when it was auctioned off to benefit the Human Rights Education Institute.\n\nIn 2007, while working as an art teacher at School Indigo in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, Doležal collaborated with children to make five works for a \"Rights of the Child\" exhibit, by the Human Rights Education Institute.\n\nIn October 2007, Doležal set up an exhibit on domestic violence.\n\nDoležal has used art to educate children on civil rights issues.\n\nIn June 2015, Priscilla Frank at \"The Huffington Post\" and Sarah Cascone at artnet made accusations of plagiarism against Doležal over the painting \"The Shape of Our Kind,\" for being a nearly identical copy of J.M.W. Turner's 1840 work \"The Slave Ship\". Frank accused Doležal of plagiarism for not crediting Turner. Cascone obliquely accused Doležal of plagiarism because, while she acknowledged it is a common and widely accepted practice for painters to copy well-known works, Cascone said Doležal should have mentioned Turner when offering the painting for sale online.\n\nDoležal was elected president of the Spokane chapter of the NAACP in 2014, replacing James Wilburn. She was noted during her brief tenure for revitalizing the chapter. Her resignation from the civil rights organization was announced on June 15, 2015 after her parents, family members, and numerous media reports over many days had exposed her stated biography and ethnicity to be untrue.\n\nDoležal applied for the position of Chair of the Office of the Police Ombudsman Commission in Spokane in May 2014, and was subsequently appointed by Mayor David Condon. In her application, she identified herself as having several ethnicities, including black. In June 2015, City Council President Ben Stuckart said the city had opened an investigation of the truthfulness of her application.\n\nOn June 17, 2015 an investigation into her behavior as chair of the commission concluded that she had acted improperly, violated government rules and abused her authority, and the report said the evidence and interviews confirmed workplace harassment allegations and \"a pattern of misconduct\" by Doležal. Doležal was asked to resign by mayor David Condon and city council president Ben Stuckart due to \"intimidating and harassing\" behavior. On June 18, 2015 the Spokane City Council voted unanimously to remove Doležal from her position as chair of the Police Ombudsman Commission. The city council accepted the resignation of one other member and granted another member a continuance.\n\nShe was the education director of the Human Rights Education Institute in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, until 2010 when she resigned after being passed over for promotion to the institute's top job. From 2005 to 2013, she was an instructor at North Idaho College, a community college in Coeur d'Alene. Eastern Washington University released a statement which said that \"since 2010, Rachel Dolezal has been hired at Eastern Washington University on a quarter by quarter basis as an instructor in the Africana Education program. This is a part-time position to address program needs. Dolezal is not a professor.\" She taught \"The Black Woman's Struggle\", \"African and African American Art History\", \"African History\", \"African American Culture\", and \"Intro to Africana Studies\". A statement by university officials on June 15, 2015, said Doležal was \"no longer an employee of Eastern Washington University\". Despite not being a professor, she used the title \"professor\" on several websites. Doležal herself describes her teaching as \"race and culture classes\", \"black studies\" and \"black feminism\".\n\nDoležal was a frequent contributor to \"The Inlander\", an alternative weekly newspaper in Spokane. On June 15, 2015 \"The Inlander\" announced that it had cut ties with Doležal, saying that it was one of many people and organizations who had been \"manipulated and deceived\" by her.\n\nDoležal's self-identification as black became the subject of controversy in June 2015, after Doležal was asked by KXLY-TV reporter Jeff Humphrey about a photo on the Facebook page of the Spokane NAACP chapter of a black man identified as Doležal's father. After being asked if the man was really Doležal's father, she said he was but would not answer when asked if she was African American. She then walked away during the on-the-sidewalk interview.\n\nDoležal's parents later stated that their daughter had been trying to \"disguise herself\" as African American. They presented a copy of their daughter's Montana birth certificate, and said that she is of German and Czech heritage, with \"faint traces\" of Native American ancestry. Her parents said Doležal began to identify herself more with the African American community around 2007. An investigation by professional genealogist Elizabeth Banas found only white ancestors over the last four centuries, including ancestors of German, Dutch, Swedish and Czech origin. Doležal alleged that the Spokane police chief had tired of dealing with her, and the chief had asked a private investigator to find out more information on her. The investigator got in touch with Doležal's parents, and discovered that she was really a white woman. However, the attorney for both the police chief and the private investigator rejected Doležal's allegations and stated they were untrue.\n\nIn subsequent interviews, Doležal stated, \"If, you know, I was asked, I would definitely say that yes I do consider myself to be black\", and that \"I would definitely consider myself to be black\". Doležal has listed herself as black on at least one application, and has said she is of \"African American, Native American, German, Czech, Swedish, Jewish and Arabic\" heritage. In an article she wrote for \"The Inlander\" in March 2015, Doležal included herself when discussing black women through use of the \"we\" and \"our\" pronouns.\n\nIn a November 2, 2015 interview on \"The Real\", Doležal publicly acknowledged for the first time since the controversy began that she was white. She said, \"I acknowledge that I was biologically born white to white parents, but I identify as black\".\n\nIn a February 2017 interview with \"The Guardian,\" Doležal said that she sees race as a social construct. At Howard, she was introduced to the theory that racial identity had been devised in colonial times as a method of control. She embraced this concept wholeheartedly after her divorce, and decided to \"flee from feeling like I had to do things in a way that was acceptable to other people.\" Soon afterward, she began sunbathing to darken her skin, applying bronzers to maintain the look. She also began wearing her hair in dreadlocks and weaves, and checked the box for \"black\" or \"African American\" on employment and medical history forms. According to her adoptive brother, Ezra, Rachel began changing her appearance as early as 2009, when she began using hair products that she'd seen Ezra's biological sister use. She began darkening her skin and perming her hair sometime around 2011. When Ezra moved in with Rachel in 2012, she told him that Spokane-area residents knew her as black, and warned him, \"Don't blow my cover.\" Ezra believed that Rachel was essentially putting on \"blackface\" by changing her appearance.\n\nSpokane's main newspaper \"The Spokesman-Review\" has called her \"Spokane’s undisputed heavyweight champion of racial appropriation.\"\n\nHer uncle Dan Doležal said that his niece first claimed that a black friend named Albert Wilkerson was her real father around 2012–13, saying that \"it caused my brother quite a bit of pain\".\n\nDoležal has in interviews referred to her father as her \"stepfather\", and said her \"black father\" had fled the Deep South \"because a white cop was hunting him\". Doležal's mother said she has never met Albert Wilkerson and that Rachel Doležal does not have a stepfather. In a 2015 interview, Doležal said she was \"punished by skin complexion\" by her mother and \"white stepfather\", and compared this alleged punishment to the punishment suffered by black slaves. Her brother Ezra Doležal said the accusations of physical punishment were false.\n\nThe revelations about Doležal's ancestry and her other claims provoked a range of reactions. Angela Schwendiman, a colleague of Doležal's at Eastern Washington University, expressed her belief that Doležal perceived herself as black internally, and that \"she was only trying to match how she felt on the inside with her outside.\" Similarly Cedric Bradley, a colleague of hers at Spokane's NAACP, suggested it mattered little to him whether Doležal was actually black or not. What did matter to him was her proven track record in social justice work. \"It's not about black and white,\" Bradley stated, \"it's about what we can do for the community.\"\n\nPsychologist Priscilla Dass-Brailsford stated: \"Because of a familiarity with black culture, she [may] regard herself as 'transracial'\". Psychologist Halford Fairchild said \"Rachel Doležal is black because she identifies as black. Her identity was authentic, as far as I could tell.\" Sociologist Ann Morning also defended Doležal, saying: \"We're getting more and more used to the idea that people's racial affiliation and identity and sense of belonging can change, or can vary, with different circumstances.\" \"Washington Post\" journalist Krissah Thompson described her behavior as \"white guilt played to its end\". Thompson discussed the issue with psychologist Derald Wing Sue, an expert on racial identity, who suggested that Doležal had become so fascinated by racism and racial justice issues that she \"over-identified\" with black people.\n\nGender studies scholar Samantha Allen said, \"Rachel Doležal seems determined to appropriate not just blackness but the rhetoric of transgender identity as well\" and called the analogy \"spurious\". \"Washington Post\" journalist Jonathan Capehart suggested, \"blackface remains highly racist, no matter how down with the cause a white person is.\" Her adopted brother Ezra Doležal also compared his sister's behavior to blackface and said \"she's basically creating more racism\".\n\nOn June 16, 2015, Touré Neblett, a commentator for MSNBC, said on the TV program \"The Cycle\": \"When I did my book about blackness, I talked to a hundred folks, academics, all sorts of people and the one thing that binds black people is the experience of racism. There's not a cultural thing that binds all of us but the experience of racism. From systemic, stereotypical microaggressions, whatever it is, and, no, she has not experienced anti-black racism and with the Howard suit, she sues Howard because she doesn't get a job because she's a white woman, you see that she wants to have it both ways.\" Introducing the category of \"cisracial\" has been suggested by former MSNBC commentator Melissa Harris-Perry.\n\nLeslie Bow, an expert on racial relations, criticized Doležal for \"taking the place of faculty of color by allowing her colleagues to assume that she's black\".\n\nA petition calling for Doležal to resign her position in the NAACP was launched by Kitara McClure, the former multicultural director at Spokane Community College and a member of the NAACP. McClure said \"you cannot lead without honesty\", and that \"for the local and the national NAACP to say they stand behind her is appalling\".\n\nThe case made international news. German \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" referred to Doležal reverting to a classical passing scheme, as in passing novel examples like \"The Human Stain\" (2000), and mentioned Norman Mailer's 1957 essay \"The White Negro\" and historical cases like Grey Owl. The review of Allyson Hobbs' \"A Chosen Exile: A History of Racial Passing in American Life\" tried to put the case in a wider and historical perspective on passing as well\".\"\n\nDolezal issued a statement on June 15, 2015, in which she said she believes that \"challenging the construct of race is at the core of evolving human consciousness\". The following day Dolezal told \"Today Show\" host Matt Lauer she was first described as \"transracial\" and \"biracial\" in articles about her human rights work, and chose not to correct them. In the same interview, she defended against allegations of having put on blackface by claiming the way she presented herself was \"not some freak, \"Birth of a Nation\", mockery blackface performance\". Dolezal later clarified that she has never claimed to be \"transracial\", a term associated mainly with transracial adoption.\n\nIn 2002, Doležal unsuccessfully sued Howard University for discrimination based on \"race, pregnancy, family responsibilities and gender, as well as retaliation\". Her lawsuit alleged that she was denied scholarship funds, a teaching assistant position and other opportunities, because she is a white woman. She also alleged that the removal of her artwork from a student exhibition at Howard in 2001 \"was motivated by a discriminatory purpose to favor African-American students\" over her. Her lawsuit claimed that Howard was \"permeated with discriminatory intimidation, ridicule, and insult\". During the proceedings, the university's lawyers asked Doležal if she tried to mislead the university by posing as black in her admissions essay, where she had written about \"the atrocities so many ancestors faced in America\" in the context of black history.\n\nIn July 2010, Doležal resigned from Human Rights Education Institute in Kootenai County, and stated to KREM 2 News that \"she had been the target of discrimination\". Doležal stated on September 29, 2009, to KXLY that a noose had been left on her porch. Doležal's biography on Eastern Washington University's website states that while living in Idaho \"at least eight documented hate crimes targeted (Rachel) Dolezal and her children\".\n\nDoležal's mother said she was contacted by the media in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, where Rachel lived for seven years. \"Law enforcement is conducting an investigation of claims Rachel has made about hate crime threats and in that process of the investigation, the question of 'What is your true ethnicity?' came up, and we were contacted and agreed to speak to the press,\" Ruthanne said. \"It is a sad situation, but the truth is best for everyone.\" The subsequent police investigation did not support Doležal's allegation. Detectives said the envelope that contained the alleged threats had no postage stamps, barcodes or any other indication of having been handled by the postal service. The postal inspector said \"the only way this letter could have ended up in this P.O. box would be if it was placed there by someone with a key to that box or a USPS employee.\"\n\nKurt Neumaier, a former member of the oversight board of the Human Rights Education Institute, said he had suspicions about Doležal and that he was concerned that the decision to hire her was done without proper vetting and checking into claims about her background. He said he was suspicious of several incidents Doležal alleged, including her alleged discovery of a swastika on the door of the Human Rights Education Institute when the security camera was \"mysteriously turned off.\" Neumaier concludes that in every incident Doležal has alleged, \"she was the sole witness to events that, when put under scrutiny, don't hold up\". English journalist Dominic Lawson has ranked Doležal as \"the most spectacular example of the growing phenomenon of people posing as victims\", which he says is a \"consequence of a culture which portrays victimhood as a form of moral superiority\".\n\nIn April 2016, Doležal announced on the \"Today Show\" that she was writing a book on her racial identity. This memoir, called \"In Full Color: Finding My Place in a Black and White World\", was released by BenBella Books in March 2017. Doležal said 30 publishing houses turned her down before she found a smaller publishing company willing to print it. In the book, Doležal compares her own experiences to slavery.\n\n\"The Rachel Divide\" is a documentary chronicling the 2015 racial controversy surrounding Doležal. The film was directed by Laura Brownson and distributed by Netflix. It first aired on April 28, 2018.\n\nThe documentary explores what led up to Doležal's fall from grace, the circumstances surrounding it, and the aftermath of the scandal and follows her life with her two children. In the course of the film, she talks of how she is forced to stay at home due to her negative public persona.\n\nThe documentary received mixed reviews. \"Vogue\" gave the filmmaker credit for \"balanced treatment of her deeply problematic subject matter\". \"The New Yorker\" noted the film's portrait of family dynamics. \"Eventually, Brownson locates the real story: a primitive power game between mother and child, one that forecasts calamity. And it is in this mode that \"The Rachel Divide\" becomes a disturbing and enthralling drama of the American family, the pain of its truths and its fictions.\"\n\nDoležal married Kevin Moore, a black man, in 2000. Moore, a medical student at Howard University at the time of their marriage, divorced Doležal in 2004. He has accused Doležal of lying and \"poisoning\" his relationship with their son. In 2010, with the consent of her parents, she obtained legal guardianship of her adopted brother, Izaiah Doležal, who was 16 years old at the time. Her other adopted brother, Ezra Doležal, accused Rachel of having \"brainwashed\" Izaiah into \"hating white people\".\n\nShe lists African dance, culinary arts, ethnic hair styling, and modeling among her other experiences.\n\nAccording to a February 2015 article in \"The Easterner\", Doležal said she had suffered from cervical cancer in 2006, but had recovered by 2008, a claim which her brother Ezra Doležal said he had only heard about at the time of the interview and that he didn't believe was true. Ezra Doležal said that \"she made herself into a martyr on purpose for people to feel sorry for her and to help her.\"\n\nDoležal told \"The Guardian\" in December 2015 that she was pregnant and expecting to deliver her second son in June 2016, whom she named Langston in honor of writer Langston Hughes.\n\nAfter the controversy in 2015, Doležal has said that she is bisexual. \n\nIn October 2016 Doležal legally changed her name to Nkechi Amare Diallo. She later clarified that she still intends to use the name Rachel Doležal \"as her public persona,\" but that she changed her name to have a better chance of landing work from employers who might not be interested in hiring the controversial Rachel Doležal. By February 2017, she was on food stamps, claiming she was on the brink of homelessness and unable to find employment.\n\nOn May 30, 2017, in response to a public backlash against the initial announcement, the organizers of the Baltimore Book Festival announced that they had disinvited Doležal from that year's event.\n\nIn May 2018, Doležal was charged with perjury, felony theft and welfare fraud by the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services. The charges were filed after it was revealed she had received $8,847 in food and childcare assistance between August 2015 and December 2017 during a time period when she had been receiving tens of thousands of dollars in unreported income after claiming with the state that her income was less than $500 per month. State investigators discovered that after her book was published, around $83,924 had been deposited into her bank account in monthly installments between August 2015 and September 2017. According to the Spokane County prosecutors office, Doležal could receive a sentence of up to 15 years in prison if found guilty and could be ordered to pay full monetary restitution for the assistance she received. Dolezal has pleaded not guilty to the charges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1382905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1382905", "title": "Sadie Hawkins dance", "text": "Sadie Hawkins dance\n\nIn the United States and Canada, the Sadie Hawkins Dance is a usually informal dance sponsored by a high school, middle school or college, in which female students invite male students. This is contrary to the custom of male students typically inviting female students to school dances such as prom in the spring and homecoming in the fall.\n\nThe Sadie Hawkins dance is named after the \"Li'l Abner\" comic strip character Sadie Hawkins, created by cartoonist Al Capp. In the strip, Sadie Hawkins Day fell on a given day in November (Capp never specified an exact date). The unmarried women of Dogpatch got to chase the bachelors and \"marry up\" with the ones that they caught. The event was introduced in a daily strip which ran on November 15, 1937. Unlike traditional dances, where the men chase the women, this empowers women to chase after what they want and not just wait for it to walk their way.\n\nIn the U.S. and Canada, this concept was popularized by establishing dance events to which the woman invited a man of her choosing, instead of demurely waiting for a man to ask her. The first known such event was held on November 9, 1938.|Within a year, hundreds of similar events followed suit. By 1952, the event was reportedly celebrated at 40,000 known venues. It became a woman-empowering rite at high school and college campuses, and the tradition continues in some regional American cultures.\n\nOther names may be used regionally\n\nSimilar dances, sometimes called Spinsters' Balls, have been organized for adults. The custom of holding Spinsters' Balls has spread outside the U.S., and exists in countries such as Australia. If held during the winter months, the Sadie Hawkins dance may be called the Snow Ball or some other wintry name. In a variation on pure Sadie Hawkins custom, a particular song may be designated a snowball dance by the DJ or master of ceremonies.\n\nIn that case, also known as \"speed dancing\" (because of its similarities to speed dating), the DJ picks two people to start dancing, usually to a slow dance. Periodically the DJ will shout, \"snowball,\" signaling that the dancers must find new partners, thus increasing the number of partners on the floor. Half of the people asking new dancers to come to the floor will be girls asking boys, Sadie Hawkins-style. By the end of the song, most of the people at the dance are on the dance floor. The \"snowball dance\" is typically used to get the dancing started, as school dances can be notoriously slow to start. In some areas, people chosen to dance cannot refuse, thereby ensuring people get onto the dance floor, and thus the \"snowball\" gains momentum and grows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15985169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985169", "title": "Spending wave", "text": "Spending wave\n\nIn the economics of demography, the term spending wave refers to the economic effect of departure of children from the home. When a society experiences a high level of such family change then an economic decline follows from reduced spending overall.\n\nFor example, in U.S. contemporary economics, Harry Dent, a University of South Carolina and Harvard Business School graduate and Fortune 100 consultant, has popularized the baby-boomer \"spending wave\" theory. According to Dent, the stock-market decline of 2008 was a result of baby boomers aging past their peak spending years. This prediction was based on the observation that consumer spending peaks near age 50. In 2002 Dan Arnold echoed this theory in his book \"The Great Bust Ahead,\" with the big spenders being 45- to 54-year-olds, and their numbers peaking in 2011–2012.\n\nOther authors, such as Schieber and Shoven, suggest that the gradual peaking of the social security trust fund in the United States will occur around the 2007–2009 time period.\n\nSome experts expect the worst consumer recession, since 1980, to occur when aging boomers start retiring, adding to rising unemployment, decline in house values, and declining stock prices. However other experts have suggested that immigration to the US and the rise of emerging economies will offset the baby boomer demographic impact. Still other experts have postulated that, due to the 2008 major stock market decline and home equity crash, many baby boomers will have lost so much equity that they will retire at a later age than was previously planned.\n"}
{"id": "35301070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35301070", "title": "Taste Festivals", "text": "Taste Festivals\n\nTaste Festivals is a company which runs a series of food festivals around the world. As of 2012, these have taken place in fifteen cities. The events typically have the prefix \"Taste of\", although the company joined forces with celebrity chef Jamie Oliver to organise The Big Feastival for the first time in 2011. The events are typically attended by restaurants who operate mini-kitchens, these include Michelin starred restaurants.\n\nThe events run by Taste Festivals feature mini-kitchens from different restaurants, along with live demonstrations from chefs. The events have their own currency called \"crowns\" which are used to purchase food from the restaurant's kitchens. The restaurants featured have included Michelin starred establishments such as Rhodes 24 and Le Gavroche at Taste of London. The Best in Taste award is given out by each festival to the restaurant who serves the best dish at each event.\n\nTaste Festivals launched in 2004 with the first Taste of London, which took place at Somerset House. The London event was moved to Regent's Park in 2005, where it has remained since. The show was named Best Consumer Show at the 2012 Exhibition News Awards. A second London based event runs later in the year, entitled Taste of Christmas. It runs on similar principles to the main Taste of London event, although it is instead hosted at the ExCeL Centre.As of 2016, Taste of Christmas is held at Tobacco Docks, London.\n\nTaste of Edinburgh was first run in 2007, initially at The Meadows, but after two years moved to Inverleith Park. In 2012, the festival was called off at late notice following high levels of rainfall in the days prior to the event making the site unsafe for the expected number of visitors. Initially the plans were to continue with the event despite the weather. As of 2012, there have been Taste festivals held in fifteen cities around the world, the exhibitors at the 2012 Taste of London held a combined 11 Michelin stars.\n\nThe events were expanded to Africa in 2006 with Taste of Joburg, and expanded in 2008 to add a second South African event with Taste of Cape Town,\n\nIn 2013, the Taste festivals were acquired by IMG.\n\nTaste Festivals began running the Jamie Oliver backed Big Feastival in 2011, a combination event featuring both restaurants and musical artists. The initial plan was to host the event in Victoria Park during 2012 to coincide with the 2012 Summer Olympics, however due to branding restrictions this plan was cancelled. The event instead was arranged to take place at the farm of musician Alex James in Oxfordshire, who had previously hosted a similar festival in 2011 which resulted in the event's organisers going out of business due to the losses involved.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25550224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25550224", "title": "Tell Magazine", "text": "Tell Magazine\n\nTell Magazine is a weekly magazine published in Nigeria. In 2007, BBC News described it as \"one of Nigeria's most respected business magazines\".\n\n\"Tell\" magazine published its first edition on 15 April 1991. All five of the founding editors had worked at \"Newswatch\", where they learned to create in-depth, investigative feature stories. They left that magazine due to low pay and disagreements with senior management, hoping that the new magazine would be more fulfilling. Although the magazine's founders had high ambitions, they were not initially hostile to the government. However, they were determined to be free of government or political influence.\n\nThe magazine questioned whether General Ibrahim Babangida was sincere in saying he would hand over to a civilian government. \nThe 2 May 1993 edition with headline \"Transition: 21 Traps against handover\" was seized, and had to be reprinted in tabloid format. Two more major seizures occurred before Babangida was forced from power in August 1993.\nIn all, 500,000 copies were seized in the last four months of Babangida's rule.\nTell's circulation rose to as many as 100,000 copies each week in the build-up to the June 1993 presidential election and in the subsequent confusion.\nFacing harassment from security forces, the magazine began printing underground in July 1993.\nOn 15 August 1993 police raided the offices and arrested editor-in-chief Nosa Igiebor and editors Kola Ilori, Onome Osifo-Whiskey and Ayodele Akinkuoto. holding them for 12 days.\n\nConditions became more difficult after General Sani Abacha took power in November 1993.\nOn 2 January 1994 armed policemen and security officers seized 50,000 copies of the magazine at the printer's premises. The issue was titled \"The Return of Tyranny - Abacha bares his fangs\".\nThe editors resorted to guerrilla tactics to survive, forming cells and frequently moving, with the magazine printed covertly in different locations. They relied on help from civilians, who supported the magazine by providing office space, buying copies and helping in many other ways.\n\nAfter the newspaper published a story that revealed that Abacha was suffering from cirrhosis of the liver, police and military raided Igiebor's house while he was away. His wife was maltreated when she said she did not know where he was. A soldier pointed a gun at his four-year-old daughter, threatening to shoot if Igiebor was not produced.\nIgiebor was jailed for six months from late 1995 to 1996, and later fled abroad to escape the threat of assassination. Osifo-Whiskey also spent six months in detention, arrested after a year in which he avoided his own house and stayed with friends, one of whom was killed.\n\nIn 1993, the Committee to Protect Journalists presented Igiebor its International Press Freedom Award, \"an annual recognition of courageous journalism\", for his work with the magazine. In 1998, Nosa Igiebor and the staff as a whole were awarded the Special Award for Human Rights Journalism Under Threat at the Amnesty International UK Media Awards. The award's notice stated; \"Tell has continued to publish throughout the period of Nigerian dictatorship despite intimidation, harassment and the detention without charge or trial of Mr Igiebor and other senior members of the Tell staff.\"\n"}
{"id": "1591612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591612", "title": "Thousand-yard stare", "text": "Thousand-yard stare\n\nThe thousand-yard stare or two-thousand-yard stare is a phrase often used to describe the blank, unfocused gaze of soldiers who have become emotionally detached from the horrors around them. It is also sometimes used more generally to describe the look of dissociation among victims of other types of trauma.\n\nThe phrase was popularized after \"Life\" magazine published the painting \"Marines Call It That 2,000 Yard Stare\" by World War II artist and correspondent Tom Lea, although the painting was not referred to with that title in the 1945 magazine article. The painting, a 1944 portrait of a nameless Marine at the Battle of Peleliu, is now held by the United States Army Center of Military History in Fort Lesley J. McNair, Washington, D.C. About the real-life Marine who was his subject, Lea said:\n\nWhen recounting his arrival in Vietnam in 1965, then-Corporal Joe Houle (director of the Marine Corps Museum of the Carolinas in 2002) said he saw no emotion in the eyes of his new squad: \"The look in their eyes was like the life was sucked out of them,\" later learning that the term for their condition was \"the 1,000-yard stare\". \"After I lost my first friend, I felt it was best to be detached,\" he explained.\n\n"}
{"id": "47566799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47566799", "title": "Vegfest (AU)", "text": "Vegfest (AU)\n\nVegfestAU is an vegan food festival held in Sydney and Melbourne.\n\nSpecifically, on 25 October, the Cruelty Free Festival will be held in Sydney.\n\nOn 1 November, World Vegan Day celebrations will be conducted in Melbourne.\n\n"}
{"id": "48566346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48566346", "title": "World Scrabble Championship 2015", "text": "World Scrabble Championship 2015\n\nThe WESPA World Scrabble Championship 2015 (also known as WESPA Championship or WESPAC) was organised by WESPA, the World English-language Scrabble Players' Association, which commissioned ASPA, the Australian Scrabble Players Association, to hold a World Scrabble Championship invitational event in Perth, Western Australia from November 4 to 8. Mattel and Mind Sports International agreed to this.\n\nThe winner was Wellington Jighere of Nigeria who defeated Lewis Mackay of England by four games to nil in the best-of-seven finals.\nThere were 131 qualifiers and it was the first time that the World Championships was won by a player from Africa.\n\nIn the first game, Wellington had bingos TINDALs, FAHLORES and VICIaTES while Lewis had TITTERED and OBEISANT, while missing bingo AUTO(G)ENY and a high scoring NIQAB later. Wellington won 529 - 398.\n\nIn the second game, Wellington had bingos AsTHORE, BLINGIER and OERSTEDS while Lewis had COnTROLE and a few 35+ plays. Wellington won 438 - 410.\n\nIn the third game, Wellington had bingos QUOITERS, MATTERED, MENTORED and ADAGIAL while Lewis had BELAYING and a 61-point CODA. Wellington won 563 - 459.\n\nIn the fourth game, Wellington had bingos CREASED and GAINLIER and a 93-point QUIZ while Lewis had AVOUCHED and IRONISTS and a 66-point JOMO. Wellington finished with a 36-point FELTY to win the game 449 - 432 and take the title of World Champion.\n"}
