{"id": "939599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939599", "title": "1998–2002 Argentine great depression", "text": "1998–2002 Argentine great depression\n\nThe 1998–2002 Argentine Great Depression was an economic depression in Argentina, which began in the third quarter of 1998 and lasted until the second quarter of 2002. It almost immediately followed the 1974–1990 Great Depression after a brief period of rapid economic growth.\n\nThe depression, which began after the Russian and Brazilian financial crises, caused widespread unemployment, riots, the fall of the government, a default on the country's foreign debt, the rise of alternative currencies and the end of the peso's fixed exchange rate to the US dollar.\nThe economy shrank by 28 percent from 1998 to 2002. In terms of income, over 50 percent of Argentines were poor and 25 percent, indigent; seven out of ten Argentine children were poor at the depth of the crisis in 2002.\n\nBy the first half of 2003, however, GDP growth had returned, surprising economists and the business media, and the economy grew by an average of 9% for five years.\n\nArgentina's GDP exceeded pre-crisis levels by 2005, and Argentine debt restructuring that year were resumed payments on most of its defaulted bonds; a second debt restructuring in 2010 brought the percentage of bonds out of default to 93%, though holdout lawsuits led by vulture funds remained ongoing. Bondholders who participated in the restructuring have been paid punctually and have seen the value of their bonds rise. Argentina repaid its International Monetary Fund loans in full in 2006, but had a long dispute with the 7% of bond-holders left. In April 2016 Argentina came out of the default when the new government decided to repay the country's debt, paying the full amount to the vulture/hedge funds.\n\nArgentina's many years of military dictatorship (alternating with weak, short-lived democratic governments) had already caused significant economic problems prior to the 2001 crisis, particularly during the self-styled National Reorganization Process in power from 1976 to 1983. A right-wing executive, José Alfredo Martínez de Hoz, was appointed Economy Minister at the outset of the dictatorship, and a neoliberal economic platform centered around anti-labor, monetarist policies of financial liberalization was introduced. Budget deficits jumped to 15% of GDP as the country went into debt for the state takeover of over $15 billion in private debts as well as unfinished projects, higher defense spending, and the Falklands War. By the end of the military government in 1983, the foreign debt had ballooned from $8 billion to $45 billion, interest charges alone exceeded trade surpluses, industrial production had fallen by 20%, real wages had lost 36% of their purchasing power, and unemployment, calculated at 18% (though official figures claimed 5%), was at its highest point since the 1929 Great Depression.\n\nDemocracy was restored in 1983 with the election of President Raúl Alfonsín. The new government intended to stabilize the economy and in 1985 introduced austerity measures and a new currency, the Argentine austral, the first of its kind without \"peso\" in its name. Fresh loans were required to service the $5 billion in annual interest charges, however, and when commodity prices collapsed in 1986, the state became unable to service this debt.\n\nDuring the Alfonsin administration, unemployment did not substantially increase, but real wages fell by almost half to the lowest level in fifty years. Prices for state-run utilities, telephone service, and gas increased substantially.\n\nConfidence in the plan, however, collapsed in late 1987, and inflation, which had already averaged 10% per month (220% a year) from 1975 to 1988, spiraled out of control. Inflation reached 200% for the month in July 1989, peaking at 5000% for the year. Amid riots, Alfonsín resigned five months before the end of his term; Carlos Menem took office in July.\n\nAfter a second bout of hyperinflation, Domingo Cavallo was appointed Minister of the Economy in January 1991. On 1 April, he fixed the value of the austral at 10,000 per US dollar. Australs could be freely converted to dollars at banks. The Central Bank of Argentina had to keep its US dollar foreign exchange reserves at the same level as the cash in circulation. The initial aim of such measures was to ensure the acceptance of domestic currency because after the 1989 and 1990 hyperinflation, Argentines had started to demand payment in US dollars. This regime was later modified by a law (\"Ley de Convertibilidad\") that restored the Argentine peso as the national currency.\n\nThe convertibility law reduced inflation sharply preserved the value of the currency. That raised the quality of life for many citizens, who could again afford to travel abroad, buy imported goods or ask for credit in dollars at traditional interest rates. The fixed exchange rate reduced the cost of imports, which produced a flight of dollars from the country and a massive loss of industrial infrastructure and employment in industry.\n\nArgentina, however, still had external public debt that it needed to roll over. Government spending remained too high, and corruption was rampant. Argentina's public debt grew enormously during the 1990s without showing that it could service the debt. The IMF kept lending money to Argentina and extending its payment schedules.\n\nMassive tax evasion and money laundering contributed to the movement of funds toward offshore banks. A congressional committee started investigations in 2001 over accusations that Central Bank Governor Pedro Pou, a prominent advocate of dollarization, and members of the board of directors had overlooked money laundering within Argentina's financial system. Clearstream was accused of being instrumental in this process.\n\nOther Latin American countries, including Mexico and Brazil (both important trade partners for Argentina) faced economic crises of their own, leading to mistrust of the regional economy. The influx of foreign currency provided by the privatization of state companies had ended. After 1999, Argentine exports were harmed by the devaluation of the Brazilian real against the dollar. A considerable international revaluation of the dollar directly weakened the peso relative to Argentina's trading partners: Brazil (30% of total trade flows) and the eurozone (23% of total trade flows).\n\nAfter having grown by over 50% from 1990 to 1998, Argentina's GDP declined by 3% in 1999 and the country entered what became a three-year-long recession. President Fernando de la Rúa was elected in 1999 on a reform platform that nevertheless sought to maintain the peso's parity with the dollar. He inherited a country with high unemployment (15%), lingering recession, and continued high levels of borrowing. In 1999, economic stability became economic stagnation (even deflation at times), and the economic measures taken did nothing to avert it. The government continued its predecessor's economic policies. Devaluing the peso by abandoning the exchange peg was considered political suicide and a recipe for economic disaster. By the end of the century, complementary currencies had emerged.\n\nWhile the provinces of Argentina had always issued complementary currency in the form of bonds and drafts to manage shortages of cash, the scale of such borrowing reached unprecedented levels during this period. They became called \"quasi-currencies,\" the strongest of them being Buenos Aires's Patacón. The national government issued its own quasi-currency, the LECOP.\n\nIn a 2001 interview, journalist Peter Katel identified three factors that converged \"the worst possible time\" that made the Argentine economy unravel:\n\n\nThe 2002 crisis of the Argentine peso, however, shows that even a currency board arrangement cannot be completely safe from a possible collapse.\nWhen the peso was first linked to the U.S. Dollar at parity in February 1991 under the Convertibility Law, initial economic effects were quite positive: Argentina’s chronic inflation was curtailed dramatically and foreign investment began to pour in, leading to an economic boom. Over time, however, the peso appreciated against the majority of currencies as the U.S. Dollar became increasingly stronger in the second half of the 1990s. A strong peso hurt exports from Argentina and caused a protracted economic downturn that eventually led to the abandonment of the peso-dollar parity in 2002. This change, in turn, caused severe economic and political distress in the country. The unemployment rate rose above 20 percent and inflation reached a monthly rate of about 20 percent in April 2002. In contrast, Hong Kong was able to successfully defend its currency board arrangement during the Asian financial crisis, a major stress test for the arrangement.\nAlthough there is no clear consensus on the causes of the Argentine crisis, there are at least three factors that are related to the collapse of the currency board system and ensuing economic crisis:\n\nWhile the currency crisis is over, the debt problem has not been completely resolved. The government of Argentina ceased all debt payments in December 2001 in the wake of persistent recession and rising social and political unrest. In 2004, the Argentine government made a ‘final’ offer amounting to a 75 percent reduction in the net present value of the debt. Foreign bondholders rejected this offer and asked for an improved offer. In early 2005, bondholders finally agreed to the restructuring, under which they took a cut of about 70 percent on the value of their bond holdings.\n\nWhen a short boom in the early 1990s of portfolio investment from abroad ended in 1995, Argentina became reliant on the IMF to provide the country with low-interest access to credit and to guide its economic reforms. When the recession began in 1999, the national deficit widened to 2.5% of GDP, and its external debt surpassed 50% of GDP. Seeing the levels as excessive, the IMF advised the government to balance its budget by implementing austerity measures to sustain investor confidence. The De la Rúa administration implemented $1.4 billion in cuts in its first weeks in office in late 1999. In June 2000, with unemployment at 14% and projections of 3.5% GDP for the year, austerity was furthered by $938 million in spending cuts and $2 billion in tax increases.\n\nGDP growth projections proved to be overly optimistic (instead of growing, real GDP shrank 0.8%), and lagging tax receipts prompted the government to freeze spending and cut retirement benefits again. In early November, Standard & Poor's placed Argentina on a credit watch, and a treasury bill auction required paying 16% interest (up from 9% in July, the second-highest rate of any country in South America at the time.\n\nRising bond yields forced the country to turn to major international lenders, such as the IMF, the World Bank, and the US Treasury, which would lend to the government below market rates if it complied with conditions. Several more rounds of belt-tightening followed. José Luis Machinea resigned in March 2001. He was replaced with Ricardo López Murphy, who lasted less than three weeks in office before being replaced with Cavallo.\n\nStandard and Poor's cut the credit rating of the country's bonds to B– in July 2001. Cavallo reacted by offering bondholders a swap: longer-term, higher-interest bonds would be exchanged for bonds due in 2010. The \"megaswap\" (\"megacanje\"), as Cavallo referred to it, was accepted by most bondholders, and it delayed up to $30 billion in payments that would have been due by 2005; but it also added $38 billion in interest payments in the out years; of the $82 billion in bonds that eventually had to be restructured (triggering a wave of holdout lawsuits), 60% were issued during the 2001 megaswap.\n\nCavallo also attempted to curb the budget crisis by instituting an unpopular across-the-board pay cut in July of up to 13% to all civil servants and an equivalent cut to government pension benefits, De la Rúa's seventh austerity round—triggering nationwide strikes, and from August, it paid salaries of the highest-paid employees in IOUs instead of money. That further depressed the weakened economy, 1947 a and the unemployment rate rose to 16.4% in August 2001 up from a 14.7% a month earlier, and it reached 20% by December.\n\nPublic discontent with the economic conditions was expressed in the nationwide election. De la Rúa's alliance lost its majority in both chambers of Congress. Over 20% of voters chose to give blank or defaced ballots rather than indicate support of any candidate.\n\nThe crisis intensified when, on 5 December 2001, the IMF refused to release a US$1.3 billion tranche of its loan, citing the failure of the Argentine government to reach its budget deficit targets, and it demanded budget cuts, 10% of the federal budget. On 4 December, Argentine bond yields stood at 34% over U.S. treasury bonds, and, by 11 December, the spread jumped to 42%.\n\nBy the end of November 2001, people began withdrawing large sums of dollars from their bank accounts, turning pesos into dollars, and sending them abroad, which caused a bank run. On 2 December, the government enacted measures, informally known as the \"corralito\", that effectively froze all bank accounts for twelve months, allowing for only minor sums of cash to be withdrawn, initially $250 a week.\n\nThe freeze enraged many Argentines who took to the streets of important cities, especially Buenos Aires. They engaged in protests that became known as \"cacerolazo\" (banging pots and pans). The \"cacerolazos\" began as noisy demonstrations but soon included property destruction, often directed at banks, foreign-owned privatized companies, and, especially, big American and European companies.\nConfrontations between the police and citizens became common, and fires were set on Buenos Aires avenues. De la Rúa declared a state of emergency, but the situation worsened, precipitating the violent protests of 20 and 21 December 2001 in Plaza de Mayo, where clashes between demonstrators and the police ended up with several people dead and precipitated the fall of the government. De la Rúa eventually fled the Casa Rosada in a helicopter on 21 December.\n\nFollowing the presidential succession procedures established in the Constitution of Argentina, the Senate chairman was next in the line of succession in the absence of the president and the vice-president. Accordingly, Ramón Puerta took office as a caretaker head of state, and the Legislative Assembly (a joint session of both chambers of Congress) was convened.\n\nAdolfo Rodríguez Saá, the governor of San Luis Province, was eventually appointed as the new interim president.\n\nDuring the last week of 2001, the administration defaulted on the larger part of the public debt, US$132 billion, a seventh of all the money borrowed by the Third World.\n\nPolitically, the most heated debate involved the date of the following elections. Proposals ranged from March 2002 to October 2003, the end of De la Rúa's term.\n\nRodríguez Saá's economic team came up with a scheme designed to preserve the convertibility regime, dubbed the \"Third Currency\" Plan. It consisted of creating a new, non-convertible currency, the \"Argentino\", that would coexist with convertible pesos and US dollars. It would circulate as cash, or but not in checks, promissory notes, or other instruments, which could be denominated in pesos or dollars. It would be partially guaranteed with federally managed land to counterbalance inflationary tendencies.\n\nArgentines having legal status would be used to redeem all complementary currency already in circulation; their acceptance as a means of payment was quite uneven. It was hoped that convertibility would restore public confidence, and the non-convertible nature of this currency would allow for a measure of fiscal flexibility (unthinkable with pesos) to ameliorate the crippling recession. Critics called the plan merely a \"controlled devaluation\" but its advocates countered that since controlling a devaluation is perhaps its thorniest issue, that criticism was a praise in disguise. The plan had enthusiastic supporters among mainstream economists (the most well-known being perhaps Martín Redrado, a former Banco Central de la República Argentina president) citing technical arguments. However, it was not implemented because the Rodríguez Saá government lacked the required political support.\n\nRodriguez Saá lost the support of his own Justicialist Party and resigned before the end of the year. The Legislative Assembly convened again, appointing Peronist Senator Eduardo Duhalde of Buenos Aires Province, who had been the runner-up in the 1999 race for the presidency.\n\nIn January 2002, after much deliberation, Duhalde abandoned the fixed exchange rate that had been in place for ten years. In a matter of days, the peso lost a large part of its value in the unregulated market. A provisional \"official\" exchange rate was set at 1.4 pesos per US dollar.\n\nIn addition to the \"corralito\", the Ministry of Economy dictated the \"pesificación\"; all bank accounts denominated in dollars would be converted to pesos at an official rate. That angered most savings holders and attempts were made to declare it unconstitutional.\n\nAfter a few months, the exchange rate was mostly a floating exchange rate. The peso further depreciated, which prompted increased inflation. Argentina depended heavily on imports but then could not replace them locally.\n\nInflation and unemployment worsened during 2002. Then, exchange rate had reached nearly 4 pesos per dollar, and the accumulated inflation since the devaluation was about 80%, considerably less than predicted by most orthodox economists. The quality of life of the average Argentine was lowered proportionally. Many businesses closed or went bankrupt, many imported products became virtually inaccessible, and salaries were left as they were before the crisis.\n\nSince the supply of pesos did not meet the demand for cash (even after the devaluation), complementary currencies kept circulating alongside them. Fears of hyperinflation as a consequence of devaluation quickly eroded their attractiveness. Their acceptability now ultimately depended on the state's irregular willingness to take them as payment of taxes and other charges.\n\nWhile the regional currency was frequently accepted at the same value as the peso, Entre Ríos Province's \"Federal\" fared among the worst, discounted by an average 30% as even the provincial government that had issued them was reluctant to accept them. There were also frequent rumors that the first state would banish complementary currency overnight, leaving their holders with useless printed paper.\n\nAerolíneas Argentinas was one of the most affected Argentine companies, canceling all international flights for various days in 2002. The airline came close to bankruptcy but survived. \n\nSeveral thousand homeless and jobless Argentines found work as \"cartoneros\", cardboard collectors. An estimate in 2003 had 30,000 to 40,000 people scavenging the streets for cardboard to sell to recycling plants. Such desperate measures were common because of the unemployment rate, nearly 25%.\n\nArgentine agricultural products were rejected in some international markets for fear that they might have been damaged by the chaos. The US Department of Agriculture put restrictions on Argentine food and drug exports.\n\nDuhalde eventually stabilised the situation somewhat and called for elections. On 25 May 2003, Néstor Kirchner took office as the new president. Kirchner kept Duhalde's Minister of Economy, Roberto Lavagna. Lavagna, a respected economist with centrist views, showed a considerable aptitude at managing the crisis, with the help of heterodox measures.\n\nThe economic outlook was completely different from that of the 1990s ds. The devalued peso made Argentine exports cheap and competitive abroad and discouraged imports. In addition, the high price of soybeans in the international market produced massive amounts of foreign currency; China became a major buyer of Argentina's soy products.\n\nThe government encouraged import substitution and accessible credit for businesses, staged an aggressive plan to improve tax collection, and allocated large sums for social welfare but controlled expenditure in other fields.\n\nThe peso slowly rose, reaching a 3-to-1 rate to the dollar. Agricultural exports grew and tourism returned. The huge trade surplus ultimately caused such an inflow of dollars that the government was forced to begin intervening to keep the peso from rising further, which would have adversely affected budget balances by limiting export tax revenues and discouraged further reindustrialisation. The central bank started rebuilding its dollar reserves.\n\nBy December 2005, foreign currency reserves had reached $28 billion (they were later reduced by the payment of the full debt to the IMF in ). The downside of this reserve accumulation strategy is that US dollars had to be bought with freshly issued pesos, which risked inflation. The Central Bank sterilized its purchases by buying Treasury letters. In this way the exchange rate stabilised to about 3:1.\nThe currency exchange issue was complicated by two opposing factors: a sharp increase in imports since 2004, which raised the demand for dollars, and the return of foreign investment, which brought fresh currency from abroad, after the successful restructuring of about three quarters of the external debt. The government set up controls and restrictions aimed at keeping short-term speculative investment from destabilising financial markets. The country faced a potential debt crisis in late July 2014, when a New York judge ordered Argentina to pay hedge funds the full interest on bonds it had swapped at a discount rate during 2002. If the judgement proceeded, Argentina argued, the country would become insolvent and have a second debt default.\n\nArgentina's recovery suffered a minor setback in 2004, when rising industrial demand caused a short-lived energy crisis. Argentina continued to grow strongly, however, and GDP jumped 8.8% in 2003, 9.0% in 2004, 9.2% in 2005, 8.5% in 2006 and 8.7% in 2007. Though wages averaged a 17% annual increase from 2002 to 2008, and rising 25% in the year to May 2008, inflation ate away at the increases: 12.5% in 2005; 10% in 2006; nearly 15% in 2007, and over 20% during 2008. The government was accused of manipulating inflation statistics, and \"The Economist\" began to turn to private sources instead. The surveying volume prompted the government to increase export tariffs and to pressure retailers into one price freeze after another in a bid to stabilize pricesfareviews but wuth little effect.\n\nWhile unemployment has been considerably reduced (it has hovered around 7% since 2011), Argentina has so far failed to reach an equitable distribution of income. Nevertheless, economic recovery after 2002 was accompanied by significant improvements in income distribution: in 2002, the richest 10% absorbed 40% of all income, compared to 1.1% for the poorest 10% (36 times); but by 2013, the former received 27.6% of income, and the latter, 2% (14 times). surveying. That level of inequality compares favorably to levels in most of Latin America and, in recent years, the United States as well.\n\nLiving standards recovered significantly after growth resumed in 2003. Even using private inflation estimates, real wages rose by around 72% from their low point, in 2003, to 2013. Argentina's domestic new auto market recovered especially quickly from a low of 83,000 in 2002 (a fifth the levels of the late 1990s) to a record 964,000 in 2013.\n\nDuring the economic collapse, many business owners and foreign investors sent their money overseas. As a result, many small and medium enterprises closed for lack of capital. The majority of their workers, faced with a sudden loss of employment and no source of income, decided to reopen the closed facilities on their own as self-managed cooperatives.\n\nWorker cooperatives include the factory Zanon (FaSinPat), the four-star Hotel Bauen, the suit factory Brukman, and the printing press Chilavert. In some cases, former owners sent police to remove workers from the workplaces; that was sometimes successful but in other cases, workers defended occupied workplaces against the state, the police, and the bosses.\n\nA survey by an Buenos Aires newspaper found that around a third of the population had participated in general assemblies. The assemblies used to take place in street corners and public spaces, and they generally discussed ways of helping each other in the face of eviction arouriver or organized such as health care, collective food buying, or food distribution programs. Some created new structures of health care and schooling. Neighborhood assemblies met once a week in a large assembly to discuss issues that affected the larger community. In 2004, \"The Take\", a documentary, was released on the assemblies.\n\nSome businesses were legally purchased by the workers for nominal fees, but others remain occupied by workers who have no legal standing and sometimes reject negotiations. The government is considering a Law of Expropriation that would transfer some occupied businesses to their worker-managers.\n\nAlthough GDP grew consistently and quickly after 2003, it did not reach the levels of 1998, the last year before the crisis, until late 2004. Other macroeconomic indicators followed suit. A study by Equis, an independent counseling organization, found out that two measures of economic inequality, the Gini coefficient and the wealth gap between the 10% poorest and the 10% richest among the population, grew continuously from 2001 to March 2005.\n\nSimilar statistics are available from the World Bank.\n\nWhen the default was declared in 2002, foreign investment stopped and capital flow ceased almost completely. The government faced severe challenges in trying to refinance its debt.\n\nThe government reached an agreement in 2005 by which 76% of the defaulted bonds were exchanged for other bonds at a nominal value of 25 to 35% of the original and at longer terms. A second debt restructuring in 2010 brought the percentage of bonds out of default to 93%, but some creditors have still not been paid. Foreign currency denominated debt thus fell as a percentage of GDP from 150% in 2003 to 8.3% in 2013.\n\nThe IMF accepted no discounts in its part of the Argentine debt. Some payments were refinanced or postponed on agreement. However, IMF authorities at times expressed harsh criticism of the discounts and actively lobbied for the private creditors.\n\nIn a speech before the United Nations General Assembly on 21 September 2004, Kirchner said, \"An urgent, tough, and structural redesign of the International Monetary Fund is needed, to prevent crises and help in [providing] solutions.\" Implicitly referencing the fact that the intent of the original Bretton Woods system was to encourage economic development, Kirchner warned that the IMF today must \"change that direction, which took it from being a lender for development to a creditor demanding privileges.\"\n\nDuring the weekend of 1–2 October 2004, at the annual meeting of the IMF/World Bank, leaders of the IMF, the European Union, the Group of Seven industrialised nations, and the Institute of International Finance (IIF), warned Kirchner that Argentina had to come to an immediate debt-restructuring agreement with creditors, increasing its primary budget surplus to slow debt increases and imposing structural reforms to prove to the world financial community that it deserved loans and investment.\n\nIn 2005, turned its primary surplus into an actual surplus, Argentina began paying the IMF on schedule, with the intention of regaining financial independence. On 15 December 2005, following a similar action by Brazil, Kirchner suddenly announced that Argentina would pay the whole debt to the IMF. The debt payments, totaling 9.810 billion USD, were previously scheduled as installments until 2008. Argentina paid it with the central bank's foreign currency reserves. The payment was made on 6 January 2006.\n\nIn a June 2006 report, a group of independent experts hired by the IMF to revise the work of its Independent Evaluation Office (IEO) stated that the assessment of the Argentine case suffered from manipulation and lack of collaboration on the part of the IMF; the IEO is claimed to have unduly softened its conclusions to avoid criticizing the IMF's board of directors.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43960694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43960694", "title": "3DX", "text": "3DX\n\nThe 3DX, also known as the Auxetik, was the first 3D printed metal muzzle brake and the first 3D printed metallic component for a firearm. It is meant for the highly customisable AR-15 rifle. The design was made public around July 2013. The printer used to print it is unknown but the brake was created using the Direct metal laser sintering (DMLS) method by Sintercore (a weapons manufacturing startup company). It is designed to tame the recoil and muzzle rise of AR-15 pistols chambered for .223 caliber (5.56×45mm) NATO rounds. The Auxetik was renamed to 3DX by Sintercore.\n\nIt uses metal Inconel material and as of 2014 the company was selling each one for around $300.\n\nThe 3DX is the first 3D printed muzzle brake available for commercial sale with muzzle control on semi-automatic and fully automatic. It uses 100% Inconel superalloy construction and Ionbond Diamondblack coating. The threading is 1/2×28RH for 5.56×45mm NATO, .223 Remington, and smaller calibers. The brake comes with installation instructions and a crush washer.\n\nIt survived the firing of 7900 rounds during testing on semi-auto. During a test on full auto, 10 magazines of 62 grain green tip 5.56 rounds were all fired without any issues.\n\nThefirearmblog tested the item on the first, sixth, and 12th month of their experiment, then checked the interior using a USB microscope. They claim that there was no \"discernible difference in performance over that year, there was no muzzle rise to speak of and no increase in report when firing\".\n\nUS Special Operation Command’s (USSOCOM) Science and Technology Directorate at MacDill Air Force Base invited Neal Brace (the owner of Sintercore) to demonstrate the newly named 3DX muzzle brake for possible use by its elite troops using an \"ARES Defense AMG-1 and AMG-2 belt fed machine gun with a 13-inch barrel feeding from a 200-round box magazine\". Testing was done on August the 5th 2014 by special operations troops on a closed range. All the testing was carried out with the ARES AMG-1 and 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302450", "title": "Annual giving", "text": "Annual giving\n\nAnnual giving is one of the most important areas in an organization’s fundraising efforts. Annual giving consists of many separate solicitation vehicles. When these vehicles are assembled together with skill, they can form the foundation of the institution’s philanthropic support. \n\nThe entire structure of the charitable giving process is presented graphically with the diagram of a pyramid. When the process is successful, the donors will move from annual giving to major gifts and then to estate or planned giving, but only if the foundation of the pyramid is firmly in place, well-aligned, and able to carry the added weight placed on it. A university or non-profit organization builds upward as it prepares for its future. Annual giving programs are needed to make that upward structuring possible. \n\nAnnual giving is about donor acquisition, repeating the gift and upgrading the gift. Annual giving creates the habit of giving on a regular yearly basis. Donors who have consistently contributed annually over a certain period of time eventually make much larger major gifts or even planned giving, like bequests, later in life.\n\nMethods to raise annual giving support include: direct mail solicitations, telemarketing (\"phonathons\"), e-solicitations, and sometimes major \"asks\".\n\nMost medium to large non-profit development departments have at least one director of annual giving, while smaller non-profits combine the annual giving position with the director of alumni relations position.\n\n"}
{"id": "56395928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56395928", "title": "Bruce Ritchie", "text": "Bruce Ritchie\n\nBruce Weir Ritchie (born February 1965) is a British property developer and residential landlord, and the owner of the Residential Land Group.\n\nBruce Weir Ritchie was born in February 1965. He was educated at Dulwich College where he was a contemporary of Nigel Farage. He is the son of the surgeon David Ritchie and his wife Jennifer Prentice, and his older brothers are a barrister and a scientist.\n\nRitchie left school after A levels and joined Harrods as a management trainee. He bought his first properties whilst still working for Harrod's. \n\nIn 1991, Ritchie founded Residential Land Limited, and is its CEO.\n\nRitchie through his Residential Land Group of 163 companies owns 1,200 privately rented properties in central London, and hotels and commercial property in Mayfair.\n\nSince at least 2014, Ritchie has been a business partner with the chef Marco Pierre White.\n\nIn 2016, Ritchie sold a block of 58 flats at Garden House, 86-92 Kensington Gardens Square, London W2, which he bought for \"a low price\" in 2001.\n\nRitchie was one of the co-chairmen of the Presidents Club charitable trust, which disbanded in 2018 after reports of sexual harassment and assault at its charity dinner.\n\nIn January 2018, as a result of the media attention that the Presidents Club received, the Canadian investment group, Ivanhoé Cambridge, and a major financial backer of Ritchie, announced that it would make no further investments with his company, Residential Land.\n\nIn 2013, Ritchie and his wife Shadi donated £111,600 to the Conservative Party.\n\nAs of 2018, Ritchie and his wife Shadi have given the Conservative Party more than £750,000 personally and through their wholly owned company, Residential Land.\n\nRitchie is married to Shadi.\n"}
{"id": "35008060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35008060", "title": "Bureau of Arms Control, Verification, and Compliance", "text": "Bureau of Arms Control, Verification, and Compliance\n\nThe Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance (AVC) is a bureau within the United States Department of State. It is responsible for providing oversight of policy and resources of all matters relating to the verification of compliance, or discovery of noncompliance, with international arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament agreements. \n\nThe Bureau is headed by the Assistant Secretary for Arms Control, Verification, and Compliance. The Arms Control Bureau, a predecessor to the AVC Bureau, was established on April 1, 1999 by Secretary Madeleine Albright. The Bureau of Verification and Compliance was split off on February 1, 2000. Some of the functions of these two Bureaus were recombined in 2005 into the Bureau of Verification, Compliance, and Implementation. The AVC Bureau was established in a reorganization in 2009.\n\nThe AVC Bureau is responsible for coordinating an Annual Report on \"Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements and Commitments,\" a report required by statute (Section 403 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2593a)) to be annually submitted by the President to Congress. In its noncompliance assessments, the Bureau utilizes all source intelligence related to weapons of mass destruction and the proliferation behavior. The assessments are used in the process for evaluating and determining sanctionable activities.\n\nAs the Bureau acts as the Department's policy liaison to the Intelligence Community for verification and compliance, it provides guidance on funding and tasking priorities for collection resources. Bureau personnel participate regularly as Special Verification Advisors to, and as members of, delegations to ongoing bilateral and multilateral agreements. The Bureau co-chairs a number of Interagency Verification and Compliance Analysis Working Groups, including those related to the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention, the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty, the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Open Skies Treaty, the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, and the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty.\n\nThe Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance also serves as co-chair with the intelligence community of the Verification and Monitoring Task Force to improve nuclear test detection and verifiability of nuclear related agreements. These groups provide the fora for discussion and resolution of issues arising from the implementation of treaties and commitments in-force and under negotiation, and the participation in the Department of State's sanctions groups provides further information for noncompliance assessments.\n\n"}
{"id": "40120520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40120520", "title": "Cabinet Crisis of 1964 in Malawi", "text": "Cabinet Crisis of 1964 in Malawi\n\nThe Cabinet Crisis of 1964 in Malawi occurred in August and September 1964 shortly after independence when, after an unresolved confrontation between the Prime Minister, Hastings Banda (later Malawi's first President) and the cabinet ministers present on 26 August 1964, three ministers and a parliamentary secretary were dismissed on 7 September. These dismissals were followed by the resignations of three more cabinet ministers and another parliamentary secretary, in sympathy with those dismissed. Initially, this only left the President and one other minister in post, although one of those who had resigned rescinded his resignation within a few hours. The reasons that the ex-ministers put forward for the confrontation and subsequent resignations were the autocratic attitude of Banda, who failed to consult other ministers and kept power in his own hands, his insistence on maintaining diplomatic relations with South Africa and Portugal and a number of domestic austerity measures. It is unclear whether the former ministers intended to remove Banda entirely, to reduce his role to that of a non-executive figurehead or simply to force him to recognise collective cabinet responsibility. Banda seized the initiative, firstly, by dismissing some of the dissidents rather than negotiating, and secondly, (after the resignations) by holding a debate on a motion of confidence on 8 and 9 September 1964. As the result of the debate was an overwhelming vote of confidence, Banda declined to reinstate any of the ministers or offer them any other posts, despite the urging of the Governor-General to compromise. After some unrest, and clashes between supporters of the ex-ministers and of Banda, most of the former left Malawi in October with their families and leading supporters, for Zambia or Tanzania. One ex-minister, Henry Chipembere went into hiding inside Malawi and, in February 1965 led a small, unsuccessful armed uprising. After its failure, he was able to arrange for his transfer to the USA. Another ex-minister, Yatuta Chisiza, organised an even smaller incursion from Mozambique in 1967, in which he was killed. Several of the former ministers died in exile or, in the case of Orton Chirwa in a Malawian jail, but some survived to return to Malawi after Banda was deposed and to return to public life.\n\nThe Cabinet Crisis, sometimes referred to as the Revolt of the Ministers is one of the most important but also most controversial episodes in the history of independent Malawi. Many of the contemporary documentary sources were written by expatriate diplomats and officials who were not close to the ex-ministers, and in some cases antipathetic to them. These accounts have been contradicted by the autobiographies, often written long after the event, of the ex-ministers themselves, although these are also inconsistent with one another. The principal published works quoted rely on a mixture of documentary sources and interviews with participants, both African and expatriate, and suggest that the crisis arose in a political culture that permitted no dissent, and treated attempts to debate issues as plotting.\n\nFor most of the colonial period, most Africans in Nyasaland had no political voice and only a small number of chiefs had a very limited influence on the colonial government and they did not represent the interests of a growing body of African town dwellers. Most early African interest groups were local, represented only a small, mainly urban educated African elite and promoted their demands for a political voice, not independence. Only in the 1940s, with the formation of the Nyasaland African Congress, did one organisation represent the whole of Nyasaland. From 1944, various African local associations united into the Nyasaland African Congress, which demanded African representation on the Legislative Council that advised the colonial governors. From 1946, the Nyasaland African Congress received financial and political support from Hastings Banda, then living in Britain. Post-war British governments of both main parties agreed to the formation of a federation of the three British territories in Central Africa, rather than their complete amalgamation, as the Southern Rhodesian government preferred: the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland was pushed through in 1953 against very strong African opposition. Federation radicalised some younger Congress members, and when in 1955 the Colonial Office agreed that the Legislative Council should include five African members nominated by Provincial Councils, they seized the opportunity. Although the Provincial Councils were largely composed of chiefs, their members were receptive to popular wishes, and they nominated Congress members or supporters to the Legislative Council. In 1956, Henry Chipembere and Kanyama Chiume, two young radical members of Congress, were nominated together with two moderate Congress members and a Congress supporter. This success led to a rapid growth in Congress membership in 1956 and 1957.\n\nChipembere and Chiume were members of a new generation of pan-Africanist politicians, deeply influenced by Socialist and sometimes Marxist ideas and experiences acquired outside Malawi, who realised the value of a well-organised mass movement. Chipembere was a southerner, but many others were northerners. Chiume was born in the Nkhata Bay district but educated entirely in Tanganyika and Uganda. Dunduzu Chisiza and his elder brother, Yatuta Chisiza, had been born in Karonga District before becoming a long-term residents of Uganda and Tanganyika. They were influenced both by Julius Nyerere and Kenneth Kaunda; Dunduzu had also lived in Southern Rhodesia before being deported to Nyasaland for his political activities. During the 1950s, these younger men displaced the older generation as leaders of Congress. They expressed hostility towards Europeanization, which cut them off from their cultural roots, an African middle class sympathising with Federation and the autocratic Chiefs. However, as they lacked status and knowledge of local African customs, they needed a charismatic older man as their leader. The chosen leader, Dr Banda, was sensitive to the country's political tradition. In preaching defiance of the \"stupid Federation\", Banda was in tune with the popular mood, but he also defended the chiefs and the rights of the older generation of educated men.\n\nThe younger members of the Nyasaland African Congress had little faith in its leader, T D T Banda, and wished to replace him with Dr Hastings Banda, who had by then moved to the Gold Coast. Dr Banda announced he would only return if given the presidency of Congress: after this was agreed, he returned to Nyasaland in July 1958 and T D T Banda was ousted.\n\nWhen Banda returned to Nyasaland, which he had left in 1915, he was over 60. Chipembere and Chiume and most other leading Congress activists were in their late 20s or early 30s. As well as the age difference there was, from the start, a disagreement about Banda's role: the activists saw him as a figurehead, but he saw himself as the leader of Congress and expected their obedience. Banda was absolutely opposed to Federation, but otherwise more moderate in his speeches that the younger Congress members. Both Chipembere and Chiume avoided social contact with Europeans and, in their speeches, they frequently denounced Europeans as a group, in contrast to Banda's relatively cordial relations with individual Europeans.\n\nBanda appointed Chipembere as Treasurer, Chiume as Publicity Secretary and Dunduzu Chisiza as Secretary-general of Congress. He also appointed four other young radicals to the party's Executive Committee, ignoring older moderates, but made it clear that he regarded his appointees as subordinates, not colleagues. Although these appointees had senior positions, these came with a heavy workload and tied them to the MCP headquarters in Blantyre, away from their grassroots support. In the nine months between his return and the declaration of a State of Emergency, Banda combined opposition to Federation with more popular causes, such as the African smallholders' dislike of agricultural practices imposed on them. He used these popular issues to mobilise Congress supporters into strikes, disobedience and protests that would disrupt the everyday operation of the colonial government.\n\nIn January 1958, Banda presented Congress proposals for an African majority in the Legislative Council to the governor, Sir Robert Armitage. As this would have led to a demand for withdrawal from the Federation, Armitage refused. This breakdown in talks led to Congress demands for more violent anti-government action, and leading Congress activists made increasingly inflammatory statements. Armitage was influenced by reports from police informers, who claimed Congress planned the indiscriminate killing of Europeans and Asians, and of its African opponents, the so-called \"murder plot\". There is no evidence that a murder plot existed, but the refusal of Banda or other Congress leaders to condemn the violent actions of Congress members gave it some plausibility. Armitage prepared for mass arrests and, on 20 February, troops from Rhodesia were flown into Nyasaland. In the days following 20 February, both Chipembere and Yatuta Chisiza made a number of provocative speeches, many followed by disturbances, and the police or troops fired on some of these, leading to four deaths.\n\nOn 3 March 1959 Armitage declared a State of Emergency over the whole of the protectorate and arrested Banda, other members of the Congress executive committee and over a hundred local party officials. The Nyasaland African Congress was banned the next day. Those arrested were detained without trial and the total number detained finally rose to over 1,300. Rather than calming the situation immediately, in the emergency that followed fifty-one Africans were killed and many more were wounded. By the night of 3 March, most principal Congress leaders had been arrested and detained. Some were released very quickly, but 72 prominent detainees, including Banda, were flown to Southern Rhodesia. Others were detained in Nyasaland. In the immediate aftermath of arrest, 21 people were killed and many wounded.\n\nWithin two days of the declaration of the state of emergency, the British cabinet under Harold Macmillan decided to set up a Commission of Inquiry into the disturbances. Macmillan did not choose its chairman, Devlin, and later criticised his appointment on the basis of his Irish ancestry and Catholic upbringing. Macmillan not only broadly rejected the Devlin Report, which had taken several months to prepare, but engineered the production of the rival Armitage Report, which was prepared very quickly so it could be released on the same day as the Devlin Report.\n\nThe Devlin Commission concentrated on three areas: the State of Emergency, the murder plot and African opposition to Federation. It found that the declaration of a State of Emergency was necessary to restore order and prevent a descent into anarchy, but it criticised instances of the illegal use of force by the police and troops. It also found that the Nyasaland government's suppression of criticism and of support for Congress justified calling it a \"police state\". Its strongest criticism was over the \"murder plot\", which it said not exist, and the use made of it by both the Nyasaland and British governments in trying to justify the Emergency, which it condemned. It also declared that Banda had no knowledge of the inflammatory talk of some Congress activists about attacking Europeans. Finally, it noted the almost universal rejection of Federation by Nyasaland's African people and suggested the British government should negotiate with African leaders on the country's constitutional future.\n\nThe Nyasaland government had imprisoned Banda, not realising that he was the only African politician they could negotiate with on a credible constitution for the protectorate. At first, the British government tried to calm the situation by nominating additional African members (who were not Congress supporters) to the Legislative Council. However, it soon decided that the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland could not be maintained and that Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesia should be given responsible government under majority rule. Devlin's conclusion that there was no murder plot and that Banda was not involved in promoting violence opened the way for the British government to deal with him. Banda was released in April 1960 and invited to London to discuss proposals for responsible government.\n\nChipembere, Dunduzu Chisiza and his brother Yatuta were arrested in the State of Emergency and imprisoned with Banda for 13 months in Gwelo in Southern Rhodesia, but Chiume, who was in London, escaped arrest. This did little to bring Banda and the others together: Banda became concerned with Chipembere's volatile temper, and Banda's increasingly authoritarian attitudes alarmed his three fellow prisoners. Chipembere and the Chisiza brothers remained in detention, first in Rhodesia and later in Nyasaland, after Banda was released. Iain Macleod, the Colonial Secretary was at first suspicious of Banda, and regarded the three others as extremists. He eventually agreed to Banda's request for their release, but they were among the last to be released in September 1960. This was after Banda had returned from constitutional talks in London, where he had been accompanied by Orton Chirwa, a lawyer and Aleke Banda, a young activist. In May 1960, Chiume returned to Nyasaland and his attempts to ingratiate himself with Banda led to his estrangement from Chipembere and the Chisiza brothers. After his release, Chipembere embarked on a series of fiery speeches: the colonial authorities considered these were sufficiently threatening to warrant his arrest, and he was again imprisoned, receiving a three-year sentence in January 1961. Chiume escaped prosecution for his speeches, as he was considered of lower importance. Chipembere was still in prison in August 1961, when Banda (who had insisted on selecting all his party's candidates) won an overwhelming electoral victory. The new Governor, Glyn Smallwood Jones was willing to discuss Chipembere's early release but despite Dunduzu Chisiza's urging, Banda allowed Chipembere to serve much of his sentence until his release in January 1963. In August 1961, Chipembere's father had been elected to the Legislative Council in place of his son, but gave up his seat on Chipembere's release.\n\nChirwa and Aleke Banda had only been detained for a short time and in 1959 they had formed the Malawi Congress Party (MCP) to replace the banned Nyasaland African Congress, making it clear that they were acting on behalf of the imprisoned Banda. The reconstitution of Congress as the Malawi Congress Party from September 1959 marked a major shift in its character. The Nyasaland African Congress was an anti-colonial liberation movement but after the 1961 elections, the MCP was in government. There was a regional shift in support for the MCP: in both the Southern and Central Provinces, people flocked to join the party but, in the north, branches were formed only in a limited number of places. The MCP quickly emerged as a larger party, distinctly more authoritarian in its approach, than Congress had been. It became a mass party, but Chipembere and the Chisizas were unknown to many of the new members, who regarded Banda as the sole leader.\n\nIn the 1961 elections, MPC won 22 out of the 28 available Legislative Council seats, including all the \"lower roll\" seats, which had a predominantly African electorate. The largest group of MPC Legislative Council members was formed of eight who had received at least secondary education, mainly former students; five of the six early ministerial appointments fell to this group. They were generally under 35 (only Chirwa was over 40), and a disproportionate number of these came from the Northern Region, because several mission schools there taught to a high standard. The next group was of local MCP bosses who were generally a decade older than the first group. They were generally less well educated but had stronger local ties, and after the 1964 crisis, several of them replaced the former ministers of the first group. At first, MPC backbench members raised questions on sensitive issues and questioned ministers with relative freedom, but by late 1962, this had ceased and only the few non-MCP Legislative Council members were able to offer any criticism. Banda started to intervene in the speeches of ministers and to cut short debates, arguing that he alone made policy.\n\nBefore the elections, the Colonial Office had assumed that MPC would be entitled to three Executive Council seats through winning a majority of the \"lower roll\" seats. As the Lancaster House agreement provided that two Executive Council seats would go to ministers elected by the \"upper roll\" of largely European and Asian electors, it was thought that the mainly white United Federal Party would gain both these seats: with five officials also sitting, there would be a non-MCP majority on the Executive Council. In the event, the United Federal Party only won five Legislative Council seats, two going to MPC and one to an MCP-inclined independent, Colin Cameron. The Governor offered the United Federal Party a single Executive Council seat, which it refused. This left all five elected seats for MCP candidates. In theory, Jones, the Governor, was entitled to allocate portfolios, but he allowed Banda to make nominations. Banda decided to take two for himself, becoming both Minister of Natural Resources and Minister of Local Government. Chiume became Minister of Education and Augustine Bwanausi became Minister of Labour. The two upper roll ministers were Colin Cameron (Minister of Works) and Thandika Mkandawire as Minister without Portfolio. Two MCP parliamentary secretaries were also appointed, but did not sit in the Executive Council. These were Dunduzu Chisiza in the Ministry of Finance and Orton Chirwa in the Ministry of Justice. Two additional appointments were made in March 1962, of John Msonthi and Willie Chokani, and Chirwa became the Minister of Justice and Attorney-general at the start of 1964.\n\nWhen Banda and four other MCP ministers joined five officials on the Executive Council, they formed a Responsible government accountable to the Governor. A timetable for full self-government independence was agreed at a constitutional conference in London in 1962 and the Jones allowed Banda and the MPC ministers and parliamentary secretaries, now seven in total, to initiate policies. Nyasaland achieved internal self-government with Banda as Prime Minister in February 1963. Full independence was gained (and the country's name became Malawi) on 6 July 1964, with Banda as Prime Minister. Malawi became a republic within the Commonwealth, on 6 July 1966, when Banda became its first President.\n\nIn February 1963, Banda, as Prime Minister, was able to select a cabinet of 10 members to replace the Executive Council. This included the temporary appointment of Henry Phillips the former Financial Secretary as Minister of Finance, the post Dunduzu Chisiza would have taken but for his death in 1962. Other official members left office. Chipembere joined the cabinet as Minister of Local Government, and Chiume added Social Development to his Education post. There were some changes of portfolios: Willie Chokani took over as Minister of Labour, replacing Augustine Bwanausi, who became Minister of the Interior, and John Tembo was made a parliamentary secretary, with the intention of his replacing Phillips, who retired in early 1964. The Governor suggested that Bwanausi had more experience and would be a better choice as Minister of Finance, but Banda was insistent on Tembo. Msonthi and Cameron retained their existing posts and Mkandawire left the cabinet by his own choice. At this time, Aleke Banda, a close aide to Banda, was made MCP secretary-general.\n\nGenerally, the MCP ministers were very active in their new roles and, although there was some friction with permanent officials, they were effective Banda, as Minister of Natural Resources (which included farming), introduced three crucial reforms, the abolition of punitive element of conservation practices (although not the conservation measures themselves), the final abolition of thangata through the Africans on Private Estates Act in 1962, and the reform of the marketing of peasant crops. Chiume, the Minister of Education, promoted the expansion of secondary education, the creation of a teacher training college and a polytechnic and sending Malawian students to overseas universities, pending the creation of a university in Malawi. The last led to accusations of favouring fellow-northerners when granting scholarships. Chiume, an abrasive personality, more controversially attacked the hold of the missions on education and insisted on bringing them under greater state control.\n\nSoon after the Lancaster House constitutional conference in 1962, Banda made it clear in the Legislative Council that he alone was responsible for making policy, which the ministers were to execute without debate or dissent. No criticism of Banda was permitted, but Banda allowed ministers to criticise each other and did not counter claims that the significant number of ministers from the north were favouring fellow northerners. Chiume in particular was involved in disputes with Cameron, the Minister of Works and Dunduzu Chisiza the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Finance. In August 1962, both Cameron and Chisiza offered their resignations to the Governor but were persuaded to remain in post; Chisiza died shortly afterwards. Banda was accused of building-up an entourage based on his own Chewa group, but before the 1963 election, he held the balance between competing MCP factions.\n\nDunduzu Chisiza had died in September 1962, apparently in a car crash, although many people in Malawi continue to believe he was murdered on Banda's instructions. Although the balance of probabilities is that Chisiza's death was accidental, it is clear that before his death, he saw the possibility of a dictatorship as a major threat. His preference was for a strong central government uniting all sectional interests and allowing dissenting views to be expressed. In a pamphlet written shortly before his death, he argued that, whereas it was necessary for the strong leadership of one individual and acceptance of his decisions during an independence struggle, once independence had been achieved, the former subordinates should cease to be submissive. He considered that a leader surrounded only by willing subordinates would soon become dictatorial; a prescient claim in view of Banda's later actions. Chisiza agreed with Banda on many issues, however on others he dissented more, and more publicly, than any other minister.\n\nUntil Banda was sworn in as Prime Minister on 1 February 1963, the Governor retained the ultimate responsibility for law and order. Immediately after this, despite some attacks by MCP militants on Jehovah's Witnesses and members of opposition parties, the situation was generally calm until the pre-independence election campaign began in late 1963. By January 1964, almost every opposition leader had fled the country and over 1,800 attacks on political opponents of the MPC and Jehovah's Witnesses were recorded in January and February 1964. This violence was orchestrated by local MCP bosses, but Banda did little to stop it,\n\nIn July 1963, Banda took over Msonthi's portfolio of Transport and Communication and removed him from the cabinet without giving any reason, although Chipembere later stated it was probable that Msonthi was suspected of corruption, and others mentioned his drinking. At the time, other ministers suspected that Banda had removed Msonthi to test their reaction to an arbitrary sacking. Banda also claimed in cabinet that he had considered dismissing other (unnamed) ministers, and the whole affair increased ministerial insecurity. Msonthi was reappointed to the cabinet in August 1963, and soon after the three MCP regional chairmen were given ministerial status, diluting the influence of existing ministers.\n\nDifferences between Banda and the ministers arose for several reasons. Firstly, Banda insisted on making all the important decisions relating to the state and the MCP, including nominating all the candidates for election, and he refused to devolve real responsibility to them. Within the MCP, Banda set up a new committee to strengthen and centralise party discipline, reducing local control. He also became life president of the MCP in February 1963. After the 1963 election, Banda began to make slighting references to the ministers in speeches. Earlier, his criticism had been in private, but on 27 October 1963, he berated them in a long public speech. More privately, he accused Chipembere, Chiume and Bwanausi of forming a cabal against him. In November 1963, he took over Chiume's ministerial responsibilities for Education and Social Development without removing him from the cabinet, where he was given responsibility for the transition to independence. Chipembere then became Minister of Education. Banda later claimed this was done to drive a wedge between Chipembere and Chiume. In a further cabinet reshuffle, Yatutza Chisiza took on Home Affairs and Bwanausi moved to Development and Transport. Banda himself retained the Trade and Industry, Health, Natural Resources and Social Development portfolios as well as being Prime Minister. His holding so many posts and devolving the day-to-day work to parliamentary secretaries was criticised, as was the frequency with which he shifted ministers around. Banda's appointment of his followers to statutory bodies also appeared to diminish the power and influence of existing ministers.\n\nSecondly, Banda continued diplomatic relations with South Africa and Portugal, but refused to recognise the People's Republic of China or East Germany, despite most ministers' ideological concerns, and contemptuously rejected attempts by Chiume and Yatuta Chisiza to form closer ties with Zambia and Tanganyika. Thirdly, the slow pace of Africanization in the Civil Service, the freezing of Civil Service salaries and the introduction of a charge for outpatients at state hospitals were not seen as passing the benefits of independence to the people.\n\nSince the Cabinet Crisis of 1964, there has been disagreement on the extent to which rivalries within the MCP in the early 1960s reflected generational and ideological tensions between Dr Banda and his younger ministers or regional divisions. Following the release of the Chisiza brothers and Chipembere in October 1960, the influence of northerners appeared to grow, reaching a peak in September 1961 when Yatuta Chisiza was appointed the party's Administrative Secretary alongside his brother, Dunduzu, the Secretary General; Chiume was Publicity Secretary; Orton Chirwa was Legal Adviser; and Rose Chibambo, the only woman on the party's National Executive, was Chairman of the Woman's League. This apparent northern dominance, masked divisions and politicians born in the north pursued various personal and ideological agendas and did not act as a regional bloc. After the Lancaster House conference made it clear that independence would be achieved, MCP became a more divided party. The focus moved away from achieving independence towards the allocation of resources between ministries and regions. Resentment of the hold that better-educated northerners had on scarce jobs was used by Banda to assert his authority by playing ministers off against one another, but there is no evidence of him adopting a pro-Chewa, anti-northern stance before the 1964 crisis. None of the ministers who resigning in 1964 drew attention to regional distinctions, but Banda's allies from the Central Region accused northern politician in general and Chiume in particular of favouritism, and voiced Chewa resentment against senior civil servants from the north, many of whom had demonstrated in favour of the former ministers. Rose Chibambo came in for particularly violent abuse, probably because of anti-female as well as anti-northern prejudice.\n\nColin Cameron, the only European minister remaining at independence on 6 July 1964, stated that, at that time, all the African ministers apart from Chiume had decided to press for rapid Africanization and links with other African states, and to end Banda's dictatorial behaviour. On his return from a visit to Cairo on 26 July, Banda made a public speech threatening ministers; this had the perverse effect of uniting them all, including Chiume. Banda's proposal to reintroduce detention without trial at the cabinet meeting of 29 July 1964 united all the ministers against him, but only Colin Cameron resigned. Chipembere later explained that the other ministers did not resign as detention was a popular issue they could not oppose, but they hoped it would be used sparingly. On 10 August, the ministers attending (Tembo was not present, and Chiume was probably also absent) asked Banda to stop making slighting references to them in speeches and not to hold so many government portfolios himself. Chipembere later recorded that Banda gave them a hearing, but was concerned that they were \"ganging up\" against him, and was reluctant to meet them as a group. However, Banda appeared to accept their concerns and apologised about the hurtful remarks he had made about them.\n\nAt the cabinet meeting of 26 August 1964, all the ministers present (including to some degree John Tembo) raised their concerns about Banda's failure to Africanise, his relations with Portugal and South Africa and their own ambiguous position. The ministers present presented Banda with a list of grievances: he made no immediate answer, neither accepting or rejecting what the list contained. Banda was apparently surprised by the strength of the opposition at this cabinet meeting, even though his recent relations with Chipembere and Yatutu Chisiza had been difficult. A number of ministers led by Chisiza apparently wished to convert Banda's role from that of Prime Minister, with an expected progression to become executive President, to be in the future a President without executive functions, with an appointed Prime Minister as head of government. Chiume had been a prominent supporter of Banda and, since 1959, had not been close to the more radical group. However, once Banda had strongly rejected his plan to accept aid from China, Chiume began to attack him, and precipitated the confrontation of 26 August 1964.\n\nThe ministers thought that their united stand had been successful. They did not know that Banda had already decided not to agree to their demands, but wanted to test how strong his support was by consulting MCP leaders before taking action. He also had Special Branch reports on the ministers, to assess their likely reaction to the dismissal of some of their colleagues. On 31 August, Banda told his expatriate cabinet secretary that he intended to have no further discussions with the ministers. He intended to resign as Prime Minister, but only because it would automatically end the tenure of the other ministers: on reappointment he would form a new cabinet without Chipembere, Chiume and Chisiza, but with the addition of four new ministers loyal to him. On 1 September, he advised the Governor-general of his intention not to reappoint Chiume or Chisiza: he said Chipembere and Msonthi might also be dropped.\n\nAt a further meeting with the ministers, excluding Chipembere who was in Canada, on 2 September 1964, Banda made no concessions to the ministers, and the meeting ended in chaos, with Banda ordering them out of the cabinet room. The ministers then met and proposed that Banda should be forced to resign, with Chirwa becoming Prime minister and Chipembere left out of the cabinet. After the abortive cabinet meeting, Banda contacted the Governor-general, who advised him to seek a vote of confidence in parliament rather than resign. As the Malawi parliament in 1964 had no opposition party members and as the MCP members were nominated by Banda, his success there was almost a foregone conclusion.\n\nOn 7 September at an informal meeting, Banda appealed to Members of Parliament to support him in a vote of confidence to be held after a debate on 8 and 9 September. Also on 7 September, Banda called upon Glyn Jones, as Governor-general to issue dismissal letters to Chirwa, Chiume, and Bwanausi, who all accepted their dismissals with dignity. Rose Chibambo, a parliamentary secretary, was also dismissed. The other cabinet members, except for John Tembo, showed solidarity with their colleagues. On the same day, Yatuta Chisiza, Chokani and, after some hesitation, Msonthi handed their resignations to the Governor-general. Chokani later claimed that Jones urged him not to resign and, after taking advice, Msonthi withdrew his resignation a few hours later: Banda immediately accepted this. Jones then suggested a meeting between the other resigning ministers and Banda, but Chisiza and Chokani declined. It is not clear whether, having dismissed Chiume, Chirwa and Bwanausi, Banda expected Chipembere and Yatutu Chisiza to continue in office, but they resigned. None of the ministers who were dismissed or who had resigned made any significant effort to mobilise support from other Members of Parliament, most of whom owed their nominations to Banda, although they had significant support from African civil servants.\n\nTembo and Msonthi, the only two cabinet ministers left, opened the debate by proposing the motion of confidence, but Banda's lengthy speech dominated it. In this, he claimed that the ministers had conspired against him, because he had preventing them abusing their positions and because they were being controlled by China's ambassador in Dar es Salaam. In response, only Chiume set out any detailed criticism of Banda, the others concentrated on stating their continued loyalty to him, despite being denounced as traitors. Chipembere returned from Canada on 8 September. Banda had written to him, asking him to remain in the cabinet, but this was before the debate, when Banda was uncertain of what support he had. Chipembere wished to effect a reconciliation between Banda and the ministers, and approached the Governor-General, asking him to request Banda to postpone the debate. However, as the first day of the debate had gone in Banda's favour, he decided against reconciliation and refused a postponement. Chipembere therefore resigned on the morning of 9 September and attended parliament as a back-bencher, sitting with the other ex-ministers. Chipembere's speech deplored the breakdown of party unity and that the ex-ministers had been reviled as traitors. He expressed his general support for their grievances, and although he expressed loyalty to Banda, he pointedly argued that cabinet responsibility should be collective and that there should be consultation on important issues.\n\nThe end of the debate was something of an anti-climax, with Banda proclaiming that, \"This is not a cabinet crisis at all ...\". However, as all members of parliament were required to speak, they had to declare for or against the motion of confidence. Few spoke in favour of the ex-ministers, even their family members. After the debate, Jones suggested that Banda should meet the ex-ministers. Banda was unwilling to meet them as long as they insisted on an all or nothing reinstatement, but he was willing to consider re-instating Chokani and Bwanausi, and possibly Chirwa, but not Chipembere or Chiume. Jones' efforts to enable the reinstatement some of the ministers between September 16 and 18 failed, as did his last-ditch attempt at compromise on September 26, when a meeting planned by Chipembere in Blantyre on that day and the next was banned, ostensibly because he had not obtained police permission. As clashes between supporters of the ex-ministers and Banda began, any hope of reconciliation faded. Over the next few weeks a number of senior civil servants and associates of the former ministers left Malawi as the conflict spread. Zomba became a centre of support for the ex-ministers, when civil servants clashed with MCP supporters on 28 September, and two newly appointed ministers were attacked. By 30 September, Chipembere's supporters controlled the town until troops and police moved in to restore calm.\n\nChiume later drew attention to long standing political differences between Banda and the younger generation of MCP leaders, some going back to Banda's return in 1959, although until shortly before the August 1964 crisis, Chiume publicly supported Banda enthusiastically. Chipembere rejected this claim, dating their opposition to the post- independence period when Banda's actions became intolerable to them. Banda claimed in September and October 1964 that the ex-ministers, particularly Chiume and Chipembere, had been plotting to remove him from office and that these plots had been going on for some time. This is unlikely in view of the ministers' lack of agreed objectives and the unplanned nature of their response. The conversion of Chiume from loyalty to Banda bordering on sycophancy at odds with several of his cabinet colleagues to leading cabinet opposition to Banda took place extraordinarily quickly in August 1964, and his actions in leading the opposition to Banda was the nearest thing there was to any concerted plot. Both Chipembere in September and Chirwa in October tried to resolve to the crisis through compromise rather than plotting.\n\nIn a paper written by Chipembere (reprinted in Baker), Chipembere ascribes Banda starting to criticise ministers publicly from October 1963 to British administrative and intelligence officers who surrounded Dr. Banda and felt insecure in their jobs. These, said Chipembere, worked for the radicals' dismissal from the cabinet by creating suspicion and distrust in Dr. Banda's mind. He claimed to have found this out when visiting a neighbouring African country around this time, but did not give the source of this information. From February 1963, Banda received monthly reports from the police Special Branch, which he did not share with his cabinet colleagues. A number of these reports were critical of certain specific activities of Chipembere and Chiume.\n\nAs Chipembere neither states the source of his information nor is specific about who the British officers surrounding Banda were, it is difficult to evaluate his claims. However, both he and Banda talk in terms of plots and misinformation. This may arise from the prevailing MCP intolerance of any perceived or imagined dissent. From 1956, Chipembere and Chiume promoted mass nationalism and led a major recruiting drive for the Nyasaland African Congress. Even in the early years, elements of a totalitarian ideology intolerant of any dissent started to appear. As Chipembere noted of himself in 1961, he had denounced the multi-party system as \"... a system of Government with a built-in subversive mechanism.\"\n\nBetween his release in April 1960 and independence in July 1964, Banda and his followers made MCP into an absolutist body. As early as August 1958, Banda had claimed the right to make all MCP appointments and dismiss any member of the party. He also became its Life President and the centre of a personality cult fostered by Chiume as Publicity Secretary. Members of opposition parties were harassed and assaulted, trade unions were fiercely criticised and there was an attack on mission-based churches in the party newspaper. All were seen as rivals to MCP, even Jehovah's Witnesses, whose movement was detached from politics, and whose members declined to join MCP. All forms of political intolerance and violence increased before the 1963 pre-independence elections.\n\nIn May 1964, Chiume looked forward to Malawi being organised with no opposition at all and claimed that there was nothing wrong with dictatorship. Banda went further in saying that any government chosen by the people themselves was not a dictatorship. By the time that many of the ministers had concerns about the reintroduction of Preventive Detention in July 1964, the possibility of reasoned opposition to Banda was long past. The Cabinet Crisis did not therefore represent any change in the nature of MCP, merely that, as external enemies had been subdued, its leader made enemies of the party's own long term members.\n\nIn October 1964, Chokani and Bwanausi, who had refused to rejoin the cabinet without their colleagues, left voluntarily for Zambia following Banda's refusal to negotiate. Chiume and Chisiza, who had gone to the north of Malawi in September, both crossed into Tanzania (as Tanganyika had become) on 1 October because they feared for their safety. Chirwa met Banda in the hope of serving as a judge but was beaten up by Banda's guards, and went into hiding before leaving secretly for Tanzania on 22 October. Chipembere had remained at his home in Fort Johnston District, avoiding any contact with Banda or Jones, under the protection of numerous local supporters. On 25 October, Banda claimed at an MPC meeting that the ex-ministers were plotting to overthrow him by force. Chipembere left his house on 28 October to go into hiding, following which Banda ordered his arrest, \"... alive if possible, but if not alive then any other way.\" After Cameron had resigned in July 1964, he was advised to leave the country in November 1964, and returned to Scotland.\n\nThe British government thought an outcome to the crisis in which Banda shed some of his powers to the ministers but remained in charge would be ideal but, failing that, it was prepared to back him against his ministers. There was the fear that Chipembere and Chiume would align Malawi too closely with China, whereas Banda would be more favourable to British interests. Glyn Jones, as Governor-general was in a difficult position as he could only advise and had no executive power. In September 1964 his frequent meeting with Banda and the ministers, except for Chiume (who refused to meet him), both before and after they left office, were aimed at an accommodation between Banda and at least some of the ministers. His constitutional duty was however to support Banda once he had won the vote of confidence. Chipembere later claimed that expatriate civil servants and security officers had turned Banda against him and his colleagues. While there is little doubt that many expatriates preferred Banda to Chipembere and Chiume, there is no real evidence that they caused this estrangement.\n\nAlthough there was widespread dissatisfaction in the north of Malawi, there was no major uprising there after the Cabinet Crisis. There was concern that Chiume and Chisiza would mount an invasion from Tanzania, but the armed uprising was in the south. After Chipembere went into hiding in the east of Fort Johnston District, he gathered a group of supports including politicians, civil servants and young activists which controlled much of the district. He set up a training camp and on the night of 12 February 1965 led about 200 supporters into Fort Johnston to attack the police station. They then attempted to reach the capital, Zomba, around 100 miles away. Chipembere's exact intentions are unknown, but he may have hoped that the army based in Zomba would come out in support of the rising. His small force was stopped at the Liwonde ferry by security forces and, after some fighting, it fled in disorder.\n\nAlthough there was a reward for his capture, Chipembere was able to remain in the Fort Johnston District until March when, ill with diabetes, he wrote to Jones, the Governor-general offering to leave Malawi in return for an amnesty. Banda at first rejected this, but after Chipembere contacted the US ambassador in early April, it was arranged (with Banda's consent) that he should leave Malawi and travel, through Southern Rhodesia and London, to the USA. He agreed not to plot against Banda there. Chipembere later claimed that an amnesty had been promised for his followers, but many of them were detained and a few continued raids on government targets for some time, leading to retaliatory burning of local villages and the public hanging of one of the leaders in January 1966. Many of Chipembere supporters were Yao and Banda promoted the recruitment of members of the rival Lomwe group as paramilitary police to contain them. During and after the suppression of Chipembere's armed uprising, several hundred civil servants were sacked, or detained along with other of his supposed supporters, and chiefs suspected of sympathising with him were deposed.\n\nThere had been a minor incursion from Tanzania in March 1965 by fighters loyal to Yatuta Chisiza, when two of his fighters were killed. In September 1967, Chisiza himself led a force of less than 20 that had trained in Zambia through Mozambique into the Mwanza District. They were spotted by police on 3 October and nine were captured over the next few days. Chisiza himself was killed in a shoot-out with troops on 11 October and his corpse was publicly displayed on Banda's orders.\n\nSeveral of the ministers that fled from Malawi after the Cabinet Crisis died abroad, but a number survived to return to Malawi after Banda was deposed and returned to public life. Several of those that had supported Banda at the time of the cabinet crisis later suffered demotion, dismissal or imprisonment at his hands. One of the new ministers appointed after the Cabinet Crisis in 1964, Albert Muwalo, was hanged for treason in 1976.\n\nChipembere first studied at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), then taught in Tanzania from 1966 to 1969, before returning to UCLA to complete his doctorate and receive treatment for diabetes. He later taught at the California State University. Between 1970 and 1975, he worked on his autobiography, which was incomplete on his death. He died on 24 September 1975 from complications of his diabetes without returning to Malawi. After Banda was removed in 1993, Chipembere's reputation was rehabilitated.\n\nChiume was in exile in Tanzania from 1964 to 1994, where he became active in journalism and set up a political movement aimed at promoting change in Malawi. He returned to Malawi in 1994 after Banda's removal and became chairman of the Malawi National Library Service until he retired in 1996. He then lived in his home district of Nkhata Bay until 2002, when he moved to New York because of his health, and died there on 21 November 2007.\n\nOrton Chirwa settled in Tanzania, where he taught and practised law. On Christmas Eve 1981, Chirwa, his wife, Vera and their son were abducted from Zambia by Malawian security officials, possibly after being tricked into going to the border area. Two years later Orton and Vera Chirwa were put on trial for treason in a \"traditional\" court and not allowed defence counsel. They were found guilty and sentenced to death, but after many appeals for clemency this was commuted to life in prison. Orton Chirwa died in Zomba prison on 20 October 1992, after nearly 11 years in solitary confinement. When he died, he was virtually deaf and blind.\n\nWillie Chokani and Augustine Bwanausi left for Zambia in October 1964, where they became schoolteachers. Chokani became a headmaster of a secondary school and a college lecturer before moving to Tanzania where he was active in Malawian exile politics. He returned to Malawi in 1993 and was Malawi's Ambassador to the USA from 1994 to 1999, then Ambassador to Ethiopia and High Commissioner to Namibia before his retirement. Bwanausi remained as a teacher in Zambia until his death in a car accident in 1973.\nAfter her dismissal as parliamentary secretary and from the Women's League, Rose Chibambo resigned as an MP and joined her husband who was in the district administration of Chiradzulu and later Mwanza, but after threats from MCP members, they both fled to Zambia in early 1965. Her husband died in Zambia in 1968, but she survived to return to Malawi in 1994. Msonthi took over Chipembere's former post as Minister for Education, and served in several cabinet posts until his removal on charges of breaching MCP party discipline in 1973. He was internally exiled to his home district for five years, before partial rehabilitation and being given a post in a government parastatal, which he held until his death in 1982.\n\nAleke Banda, who had become Secretary-General of MCP in 1962, became a cabinet minister in 1962, and served in three cabinet posts before being dismissed by Banda in 1973. In 1975, he was appointed managing director of Press Holdings Ltd, a company controlled by Banda but in 1979 was detained without charge for 12 years. After Banda's removal, he re-entered politics in opposition to MCP, and between 1997 and 2005 held two cabinet posts. He retired through illness in 2005 and died from leukaemia in 2010. John Tembo ceased to be a cabinet minister in 1971, becoming Governor of the Reserve Bank of Malawi but retaining his MCP position. In 1982, Tembo left the Reserve Bank and, although he held no ministerial office until 1989, he was a close advisor to Banda and held a number of posts in parastatal bodies. In 1989, he became MCP treasurer and again held ministerial office. In 1995 he was accused, along with Banda of murder, but acquitted. After 1994, Tembo remained with MCP and in politics, and is currently Malawi's Leader of the Opposition.\n\n"}
{"id": "44594810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44594810", "title": "Communarka shooting ground", "text": "Communarka shooting ground\n\nThe Communarka or Kommunarka () was the site of NKVD mass shootings from 1937 to 1941 in the Novomoskovsky Administrative Okrug south-west of the centre of Moscow. It is now an Orthodox cemetery. According to the Federal Security Service, 10,000 people were killed and buried there.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1980244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1980244", "title": "Constitutional liberalism", "text": "Constitutional liberalism\n\nConstitutional liberalism describes a form of government that upholds the principles of classical liberalism and the rule of law. It differs from liberal democracy in that it is not about the method of selecting government. The journalist and scholar Fareed Zakaria explains that constitutional liberalism \"is about government's goals. It refers to the tradition, deep in Western history, that seeks to protect an individual's autonomy and dignity against coercion, whatever the source—state, church, or society.\" Democracy is becoming more common around the world. Freedom House reported that in 2013 there were 118 electoral democracies. Many of these countries are not constitutionally liberal and can be described as illiberal democracies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33060140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33060140", "title": "Coorg State", "text": "Coorg State\n\nCoorg State was a Part-C state in the Union of India which existed from 1950 to 1956.When the Constitution of India came into force on 26 January 1950, most of the existing provinces were reconstituted into states. Thus, Coorg Province became Coorg State. Coorg State was ruled by a Chief Commissioner with Mercara as its capital. The head of the government was the Chief Minister. Coorg State was abolished on 1 November 1956 as per the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 and its territory were merged with Mysore State (later renamed as Karnataka in 1973). Presently, Coorg forms a district of Karnataka state.\nThe Coorg State came into being on 26 January 1950 as per the Constitution of India. Prior to the enactment of the Constitution, Coorg had been a province of the Dominion of India.\n\nThe first legislative elections in Coorg were held in 1952. The main contenders were the Indian National Congress led in the state by C. M. Poonacha and the Takkadi party led by the Gandhian Pandyanda Belliappa. While the Congress supported merger with the neighbouring Mysore State, the Takkadi party fought the election on an anti-merger plank. The Indian National Congress won a majority of 15 seats while the Takkadi party bagged the remaining nine seats.\n\n(1) Dewan Bahadur Ketolira Chengappa, became its first Chief Commissioner from 1947–1949\n\n(2) C.T. Mudaliar became Chief Commissioner from 1949 - 1950\n\n(3) Kanwar Baba Daya Singh Bedi, Chief Commissioner from 1950 - 1956\n\nGovernment was formed in Coorg by Indian National Congress, who won 15 of 24 seats. Cabinet was formed with two ministers (including Chief Minister), which lasted till States Reorganisation Act on 1 November 1956.\n\nCheppudira Muthana Poonacha won from Berriathnad constituency became the first and last Chief Minister of Coorg State from 1950 till 1956.\n\n\nAs a result of the States Reorganisation Act of 1 November 1956, when India's state boundaries were reorganised, Coorg State became a district of the then Mysore State Mysore State was later renamed as Karnataka and part of the historical region of Coorg now forms the Kodagu district of Karnataka.\n\n"}
{"id": "51295787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51295787", "title": "Corruption in Bolivia", "text": "Corruption in Bolivia\n\nCorruption in Bolivia is a major problem that has been called an accepted part of life in the country. It can be found at all levels of Bolivian society. Citizens of the country perceive the judiciary, police and public administration generally as the country's most corrupt. Corruption is also widespread among officials who are supposed to control the illegal drug trade and among those working in and with extractive industries.\n\nMany Bolivians are uneducated and thus unaware of their rights as citizens or of laws against corruption.\n\nEver since Bolivia was freed from Spanish rule in 1825, the country has experienced considerable instability. The government has been overthrown over 200 times and the constitution rewritten. Widespread poverty has been a major factor in the country's poor development and poor governance.\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, the government was passed back and forth between civilian and military control repeatedly, some of them notorious for corruption. In 1980-81, when Luis García Meza Tejada was dictator, several thousand civil servants were prosecuted for embezzlement; in 1986, García Meza was charged with treason, sedition, and many other crimes, along with 55 of his associates; he fled the country in 1989.\n\nVictor Paz Estenssoro’s government (1985-89) introduced a degree of stability and democracy. Under Gonzalo “Goni” Sanchez de Lozada, president from 1993 to 1997 and from 2002 to 2003, however, witness the selling off state industries in a process that was widely viewed as corrupt, with many of the purchasers being firms with whom he had close ties.\n\nEvo Morales, elected Bolivia's president in December 2005, convinced poor and middle-class voters that his promised social revolution would overcome establishment corruption. Increased revenues from the exploitation of Bolivia's rich natural resources helped improve macro-economic performance during the decade between 2002 and 2012. Transparency has also improved under Morales. Nonetheless, Bolivia remains the poorest nation in South America, with real GDP lower than it was a generation ago and most of the population still living below the poverty line.\n\nTransparency International's 2016 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 113th place out of 176 countries\n\nSimilarly, the World Bank gave Bolivia a score of 38.9 for corruption on the Worldwide Governance Indicators scale from 0 (worst) to 100 (best), a decline from 2007 (43.7) but an improvement over 2009 (29.2). From 2007 to 2011, 80% of citizens thought corruption had worsened or stayed constant. A 2010 report suggested that citizens’ perception of the level of public-sector corruption was worse than the actual scale of such corruption. Business executives, by contrast, saw the situation as having improved since 2009.\n\nInhabitants of Bolivia tend to consider the state “hopelessly corrupt,” yet under Morales, paradoxically, have allowed it to control an ever-greater portion of the economy, greatly expanding opportunities for corruption. A 2015 report found that while Bolivians do not consider Morales personally corrupt, and re-elected him handily in October 2014, they do think there is more corruption than ever and that it is the fault of the government.\n\nThere is a degree of tolerance toward government corruption in Bolivia, a belief that it is acceptable given the “good things” the government does for the people. Many Bolivians subscribe to the traditional belief that only a fool does not take advantage of every opportunity to enrich himself, whether illicitly or not; others believe that with the ascent of Morales, who is an indigenous person, it is now the turn of that group to reap the benefits of corruption as other groups have done before. Indeed, a belief in the importance of group identify, and consequently a tendency to embrace the attitudes of the collective, often trumps individual ethics in Bolivian society.\n\nGovernment bureaucracy is seen as inefficient, bloated, and full of clientelism, and is considered (along with the police) one of the most corrupt sectors in the country. Hiring and promotion are politically driven and lacking in transparency.\n\nGovernment officials tend to treat public financial data as their own property and tend not to grasp their obligation to provide information to the public. In 2010, Bolivia scored 13 out of 100 on the Open Budget Index, the worst performance for any Latin American country, but an improvement on its 2008 score of 7.\n\nSome reports suggest that rampant corruption within the government and elite perpetuate poverty and make it impossible for advancement. The Bertelsmann Foundation stated in 2012 that despite laws and safeguards, local government partakes in illicit enrichment schemes.\n\nIn 2011, Flores Roberts, governor of Pando, was accused of establishing front companies. A former employee who reported him to the police, Claudia Silvana Salas, was later arrested and imprisoned on extortion charges and was receiving “anonymous threats.”\n\nIn September 2015, Bolivia’s rural development minister, Nemesia Achocollo, and its ambassador to Paraguay, Rosendo Alpiri, resigned after being implicated in a major scandal involving a foundation called the Indigenous Fund. A report showed that between 2010 and 2011, only 20% of 153 of the fund's approved projects were actually implemented and almost US$10 million was unaccounted for. Others implicated were indigenous leader Marco Antonio Aramayo and Felipa Huanca, a leader of the Bartolina Sisa Campesina Women’s Federation. Over 200 individuals, including government officials and friends and members of Morales's MAS party, ended up being accused of corruption in connection with the fund's disbursements. It was noted that the first person to draw attention to corruption at the fund, back in 2012, was Jacobo Soruco Cholima, head of a Rural Workers’ Union, who was murdered in June of that year, apparently in retaliation for his whistleblowing.\n\nIn February 2016, Morales was accused of influence-peddling involving a Chinese construction firm, CAMC, for which his ex-girlfriend, Gabriela Zapata, worked and which received lucrative government contracts. Journalist Carlos Valverde, who made the relationship public, charged that Morales had used his position to help advance Zapata’s career. Valverde noted that the value of Bolivia's contracts with the firm rose from $214 million to over half a billion dollars after the firm hired Zapata. Zapata was arrested in late February.\n\nAlso in February 2016, six people died when protesters set fire to the municipal offices in the indigenous city of El Alto. The fire was blamed on former officials who allegedly sought to destroy documents relating to a probe into their own corrupt activities.\n\nAlthough the constitution guarantees the right to private property, this right is often infringed, with expropriation occurring frequently.\n\nBolivia's customs service is highly corrupt and inefficient, with more than one in three respondents in a survey saying that they had paid a bribe to customs officers during the previous year.\n\nThe complexity of Bolivian tax law provides opportunities for corruption.\n\nA 2009 report stated that improved inspection control, involving the use of a so-called “process flow approach,” has helped reduce corruption in the tax service and reduced loss of public funds.\n\nElections themselves are generally considered free and fair, although campaign financing safeguards are highly inadequate. In 2009 elections, EU observers reported widespread abuse of the public budget by incumbents, with campaigns being partly financed by civil servants' salaries. A 2010 report found Bolivia the weakest of all Latin American countries in this regard and noted the lack of limits on political donations and the absence of any law requiring disclosure thereof.\n\nBribery is a crime in Bolivia, but a 2011 survey found that one of every three Bolivians had to pay a bribe in that year. The worst offenders were the judiciary, police and customs service.\n\nOfficials charged with corruption are very often given immunity from prosecution in violation of the constitutional. Congress must approve in advance of any legal action against the executive. In 2014, Ever Moya, the former president of the Human Rights Committee, resigned after several corruption complaints he had submitted met with official indifference.\n\nThe judiciary is viewed as Bolivia's most corrupt sector. It is weak, inefficient, short on resources, and subject to interference by politicians, with court decisions often being influenced by bribery. Its independence was challenged in 2010 when Morales appointed five judges to the Supreme Court, Constitutional Court, and Judicial Council. Prosecutors are not independent, and they have often targeted opposition-party politicians and their supporters. Also, the 2009 Constitution placed indigenous courts on a par with the mainstream judicial system, which causes conflicts, confusion, difficulties, and delays. In 2015 Morales “called for a referendum designed to root out corruption in the judicial system.”\n\nIn 2014, the Senate called on the attorney general to suspend 300 of Bolivia's 508 public prosecutors for corruption and other offenses. Between January and August 2014, 45 prosecutors were disbarred, twice the number disbarred in 2013.\n\nPolice corruption is a major problem, owing partly to low wage and poor training. The police are generally viewed as the nation's third most corrupt institution, and corruption is widely seen as the main impediment to legitimate crime-fighting. In six years, three police chiefs have been fired for corruption or abuse of power. Many police officers have ties to organized crime, mainly drug traffickers, and many are appointed to senior positions, a power that is exclusively exercised by the president, because of their political connections.\n\nThe narcotics police and secret police have been involved in cocaine trafficking since the late 1950s, with cocaine producers and traffickers being treated as respectable businessmen and coexisting peacefully with one government after another. Large-scale drug-related corruption in Bolivia's military and police force dates back to the 1970s and intensified in 1980-81, when dictator Luis García Meza Tejada's “inner cabinet” was packed with persons involved in cocaine trafficking, notably Colonel Ariel Coca and Colonel Luis Arce Gómez. In 1988, Bolivia's foreign minister charged that narcotics traffickers were trying to influence policy, and a secret videotape of politicians and military officers socializing with a drug kingpin, Roberto Suárez Gómez, was shown on television. In the same year it was reported that police and prosecutors were returning large drug finds to narcotics traffickers and turning only small caches over to the authorities. President Jaime Paz Zamora (1989–93) was friendly with two “drug barons,” Carmelo “Meco” Domínguez and Isaac “Oso” Chavarría. Over the decades there have been repeated scandals concerning official involvement in trafficking, and they have resulted in many firings but not very many prosecutions; also, those removed from their positions because of such involvement have tended to be lower-level people, while guilty higher-ups have generally been left alone to continue operating.\n\nBolivia has become a regional drug-trafficking hub through which narcotics are funneled to Argentina and Brazil. One reason for this is the corruption and incompetence of the police. Many police officers are directly involved in trafficking, while others accept payoffs to facilitate shipments. In 2011, Rene Sanabria, then head of a police intelligence center, and former national police commissioner pled guilty to U.S. cocaine trafficking charges.\n\nIn 2011, the reputation of the police was damaged by a probe of forty officers suspected of ties to drug trafficking. Also, the former anti-drug czar, René Sanabria, was arrested in Panama and tried in the U.S. on drug-trafficking charges.\n\nIn January 2015, 20 prosecutors, 18 judges, and 12 police officials who had handled corruption and drug- trafficking cases were investigated for irregularities in their declarations of assets. One police colonel, for example, had accumulated nearly $145,000 over ten years on a salary of about $400 a month, and had reported the purchase of five properties while omitting the purchase of two additional properties.\n\nIn May 2015, the problem of police corruption in Bolivia was highlighted by the case of Martín Belaunde Lossio, a Peruvian politician and businessman, whose escape from house arrest in Bolivia was believed to be made possible by paid-off police officers. “Some groups within our institutions, such as the police,” commented Morales, “are creating a bad image of Bolivia.”\n\nThe national police's Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR) investigates cases of police corruption and may sanction officers for minor infractions. Major violations are prosecuted by the Attorney General. An observer has stated that Bolivia's police force needs a “complete overhaul” in order to combat drug trafficking and other international crime. One study suggested that government intervention allowed for corruption, and therefore taking a less hands-on approach would decrease corruption significantly.\n\nCompanies consider corruption a major obstacle for business in the country. About a fifth of them expect to pay bribes to civil servants to do business. Bureaucratic procedures are complex and burdensome, and often involve illegal “facilitation payments.” Several sectors, notably public procurement and natural-resources extraction, are characterized by extensive patronage networks and clientelism. The risk of corruption is especially high when business must deal with the justice system, where bribes often must be paid in exchange for favorable decisions. One example of favoritism was the courts' refusal to take a 2015 case involving a catering company owned by a sister-in-law of the vice-president.\n\nCompanies are also likely to encounter corruption when dealing with the public services sector, in which bribes are often required in exchange for licenses and permits. The same is true of the land administration sector, because property rights are not often protected in practice and expropriation is common, with compensation amounts being determined by negotiations rather than through consistent and transparent processes. Corruption in the tax bureau and customs sectors also impact companies doing business in Bolivia; in the latter sector, corruption occurs more often importing goods, rather than when exporting goods.\n\nThe product procurement sector is especially corrupt, with bribes being exchanged for government contracts and public funds often being diverted to favored companies and individuals.\n\nBolivia is rich in natural resources, a sector that is highly prone to corruption worldwide. The country is very dependent on extractives, with revenues making up almost a fifth of the national budget. The 2009 Constitution nationalized all hydrocarbon resources; oil and gas production is now under the purview of the government firm YPFB. The fact that the government controls both operation and regulation in this sector is widely seen as increasing opportunities for corruption. Scandals involving nepotism, kickbacks, and other forms of corruption have plagued the YPFB for years and led to the firing and imprisonment of several individuals.\n\nCorruption played a key role in the nationalization process, with leaders of YPFB being sent to prison in 2011 for bribery and influence-peddling. These events intensified the widespread sense that the government's claim to be fighting corruption is insincere.\n\nIn 2009, an executive of a Bolivian-Argentine hydrocarbon firm, Cartler Uniservice, was shot in La Paz while allegedly delivering a large kickback to the family of the then president of YPFB, Santos Ramirez, and a close friend of Morales's. Ramirez was fired and given a 12-year prison sentence. In 2012, in a case called “Santos Ramitez II,” two other YPFB officials were charged with bribery, abuse of public resources, and illicit enrichment. In 2014 four top officials at YPFB were arrested for corruption, and two more for influence peddling.\n\nLocal communities officially control their own natural resources, but are not protected from federal intervention, and are susceptible to corruption by government ageancies or corporations. Citizens' constitutional right of access to financial information about extractive industries is not always respected.\n\nAs noted, police and customs authorities often collude with organized criminals, although other sectors are also affected by this sort of activity.\n\nLaws against money laundering are considered insufficient and ineffective.\n\nBolivia ranks 108th of 179 countries for press freedom. Although freedom of expression and of the media are technically permitted, the government controls the allocation of licenses for print and broadcasting media. However, it is said that the state does not censor internet media.\n\nMedia firms are not mandated to disclose ownership information, which makes possible conflicts of interest and erodes transparency.\n\nMorales has placed legal, political, and economic pressure on opposition media, and such pressure has led to journalistic self-censorship. The government did not investigate the 2012 murder of two journalists. The media are considered “partly free.” A law forbidding expression of “racism” in the media is considered an attempt by the ruling regime to silence opposition criticism of pro-indigent government actions.\n\nThe Law against Corruption, Illicit Enrichment, and the Investigation of Assets criminalizes most forms of corruption. The Anti-Corruption Law of 2010 which applies to all public officials and has no statute of limitations, does not specifically address narcotics-related corruption, but was used in 2011 to bring narcotics charges and to indict judges for dismissing narcotics charges. A law adopted in 2004 requires all executive-branch institutions to make their budget information public and respond in a timely way to information requests. There are several more laws in place to prevent corruption in its various forms. None of these laws, however, is adequately enforced.\n\nTransparency International stated in 2012 that Bolivia has made “significant efforts” to improve transparency, and noted Morales's declaration of “zero tolerance” of corruption, but acknowledged that anti-corruption laws continue to be poorly enforced and that corruption therefore remains a serious problem.\n\nThe Ministry of Anticorruption and Transparency, founded in 2009, is tasked with promoting anti-corruption policies and investigating corruption cases at every level in every government branch. In March 2010, Congress passed a law that gives the state broad authority to prove private and public corruption. An April 2011 law seeks to reduce corruption in the police force. The National Council Against Corruption is charged with monitoring the National Plan against Corruption's progress.\n\nIn 2005, Bolivia ratified the UN's 2003 anti-corruption convention, although it neglected to join an initiative to inhibit the bribing of public officials. Bolivia is also part of the Organization of American States’ Inter-American Convention against Corruption, with an ombudsman appointed to protect human rights and guard against government abuse.\n\nBolivia is not a member of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, but is a signatory of the 1958 New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. The Red Participación y Justicia is an anti-corruption coalition that is made up of more than one hundred organizations.\n\nSeveral CSOs address transparency and corruption. A 2016 OAS report called for greater anti-corruption efforts in Bolivia and praised certain best practices, such as the “Mi Plataforma” initiative at the Ministry for Institutional Transparency and Fight against Corruption and the Executive Branch Ministries Master Salary Scale instituted by the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance. The UNODC's Bolivia Country Programme 2010-2015 includes an anti-corruption component. Along with other ministries, the UNODC developed seven educational games to raise awareness about corruption which have been used in schools, parks, and fairs to encourage civic involvement in fighting corruption.\n\nA September 2015 article in Foreign Policy described how La Paz “freed itself from a ubiquitous culture of corruption.” This took place thanks to Juan Del Granado, elected mayor in 1999 on a platform of “transformation.” When he ordered fuel for municipal vehicles and the supplier handed him a check for $1,000, the usual kickback, he expelled the man from city hall. He set in place a zero-tolerance policy on graft. Former mayors, including Gaby Candia, Lupe Andrade, and Germán Monroy Chazarreta, were prosecuted and jailed. In 2004, Del Granado established a Transparency Unit, which provided a special telephone tip line, email address, and online complaints procedure for reporting corruption, and whose staffers posed as public-service users to ferret out officials who demanded irregular fees and bribes. Del Granado also instituted rewards for good practice, giving out awards to “efficient, transparent, cordial, and honest” city employees. In addition, he vigorously enforced the 1990 Financial Administration System and Governmental Control Act (SAFCO) and encouraged citizen participation in neighborhood governance.\n"}
{"id": "17999815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17999815", "title": "Culture and Media Institute", "text": "Culture and Media Institute\n\nThe Culture and Media Institute (CMI) is a conservative American non-profit organization focusing on promoting what it considers to be traditional values in American culture and beliefs and fair treatment of conservatives in the news media. It was founded in October 2006 as a division of the Media Research Center, a group that monitors perceived liberal news media bias.\n\nThe Institute promotes its mission through editorials and research reports. \"Eye on Culture\" is a regular feature in which CMI writers express their opinions on American popular culture. Among its viewpoints include opposition to the Fairness Doctrine and opposition to same-sex marriage. In March 2007, the CMI published a \"National Cultural Values Survey\" and concluded from its results that most Americans perceived a decline in moral values. One study released by the organization in July 2007 claimed that television viewing time correlated directly with one's liberal attitude, even possibly degrading to moral attitudes.\n\nThe CBS crime drama \"Cold Case\" has been twice criticized by the CMI for alleged anti-Christian prejudice in two episodes. In May 2008, CMI released another report, one that claimed a moral decline in \"Dear Abby\" columns.\n"}
{"id": "27690959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27690959", "title": "David S. Wollan", "text": "David S. Wollan\n\nDavid S. Wollan (March 14, 1937 – August 25, 2008) was an American physicist and arms control specialist.\n\nWollan was born in Massachusetts, attended Amherst College as an undergraduate physics major, and earned his Master's and Ph.D. in physics at the University of Illinois in Urbana. He was a Fellow of the American Physical Society.\n\nAfter earning his Ph.D. in 1966, Wollan was an assistant professor of physics at Virginia Polytechnic Institute where he did research on electron and nuclear magnetic resonance of rare earth ionic crystals. In 1974, he went to the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (ACDA) as a physical science officer, and served on U.S. delegations to SALT II and START negotiations. He spent a great deal of time in Geneva on negotiations in those years, and met his second wife, Barbara, there. In 1980 he was selected to attend the National War College, and was a distinguished graduate there in 1981. In 1989, he was made chief of the Theater and Strategic Defense Division of ACDA, the office responsible for the ABM Treaty and related issues. He held similar positions and responsibilities after ACDA was merged into the State Department in 1999. He evolved the role of his office to include development of shared early warning protocols with many foreign countries and the exploration of international \"rules of the road\" for space operations. He retired from government service in 2008. He died on August 25, 2008 from lung cancer.\n\nWollan was a significant contributor to the major arms control treaties of the Cold War. In particular, he was responsible for developing technical definitions for key terms in the treaties, such as what constitutes a \"cruise missile\" for purposes of treaty limitations. In 1998, he was made a Fellow of the American Physical Society \"for leadership in the arms control of both offensive and defensive strategic arms, combining deep technical analysis with legal and diplomatic expertise regarding the SALT II, START I, and ABM treaties.\" \n"}
{"id": "20163098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20163098", "title": "Defoamer", "text": "Defoamer\n\nA defoamer or an anti-foaming agent is a chemical additive that reduces and hinders the formation of foam in industrial process liquids. The terms anti-foam agent and defoamer are often used interchangeably. Commonly used agents are insoluble oils, polydimethylsiloxanes and other silicones, certain alcohols, stearates and glycols. The additive is used to prevent formation of foam or is added to break a foam already formed.\n\nIn industrial processes, foams pose serious problems. They cause defects on surface coatings and prevent the efficient filling of containers. A variety of chemical formulae are available to prevent formation of foams.\n\nGenerally a defoamer is insoluble in the foaming medium and has surface active properties. An essential feature of a defoamer product is a low viscosity and a facility to spread rapidly on foamy surfaces. It has affinity to the air-liquid surface where it destabilizes the foam lamellas. This causes rupture of the air bubbles and breakdown of surface foam. Entrained air bubbles are agglomerated, and the larger bubbles rise to the surface of the bulk liquid more quickly.\n\nThe first defoamers were aimed at breaking down visible foam at the surface. Kerosene, fuel oil and other light oil products were used to break down foam. Vegetable oils also found some use. Fatty alcohols (C7 – C22) were effective but expensive antifoams. They were added to oil products to boost the efficiency. Milk and cream were forebears for modern day emulsion type defoamers.\n\nDuring the 1950s, experiments with silicone based defoamers started. These were based on polydimethylsiloxane (silicone oil) dispersed in water or light oil. Silicone oils worked well, but caused surface disturbances in many applications like paints and papermaking. In 1963 the first antifoams with hydrophobic particles (hydrophobic silica) in light oil were patented. In the early 1970s, hydrophobic waxes like ethylene bis stearamide dispersed in oils developed. These types of defoamers were very efficient, but the oil crisis of 1973 made these too expensive and resulted in a push for reduction of the oil content. The solution was adding water. So water extended (water in oil emulsion) and water based (oil in water emulsion) defoamers appeared.\n\nThe development of silicone based defoamers has continued, using different emulsifiers and modified silicone oils. In the early 1990s, silicone emulsion defoamers that caused less surface disturbances were used in the wood pulping industry with great success. These caused better washing, reduced biological oxygen demand (BOD) in effluent and reduced deposits.\n\nOil based defoamers have an oil carrier. The oil might be mineral oil, vegetable oil, white oil or any other oil that is insoluble in the foaming medium, except silicone oil. An oil based defoamer also contains a wax and/or hydrophobic silica to boost the performance. Typical waxes are ethylene bis stearamide (EBS), paraffin waxes, ester waxes and fatty alcohol waxes. These products might also have surfactants to improve emulsification and spreading in the foaming medium.\n\nThese are heavy duty defoamers and are normally best at knocking down surface foam.\n\nPowder defoamers are in principle oil based defoamers on a particulate carrier like silica. These are added to powdered products like cement, plaster and detergents.\n\nWater based defoamers are different types of oils and waxes dispersed in a water base. The oils are often mineral oil or vegetable oils and the waxes are long chain fatty alcohol, fatty acid soaps or esters. These are normally best as deaerators, which means they are best at releasing entrained air.\n\nSilicone-based defoamers are polymers with silicon backbones. These might be delivered as an oil or a water based emulsion. The silicone compound consists of an hydrophobic silica dispersed in a silicone oil. Emulsifiers are added to ensure that the silicone spreads fast and well in the foaming medium. The silicone compound might also contain silicone glycols and other modified silicone fluids.\n\nThese are also heavy duty defoamers and are good at both knocking down surface foam and releasing entrained air.\n\nSilicone based defoamers are also suitable in non-aqueous foaming systems like crude oil and oil refining. For very demanding applications fluorosilicones may be suitable.\n\nEO/PO based defoamers contain polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol copolymers. They are delivered as oils, water solutions, or water based emulsions. EO/PO copolymers normally have good dispersing properties and are often well suited when deposit problems are an issue.\n\nAlkyl polyacrylates are suitable for use as defoamers in non-aqueous systems where air release is more important than the breakdown of surface foam. These defoamers are often delivered in a solvent carrier like petroleum distillates.\n\nThe most noticeable form of foam is foam floating on the stock surface. It is easy to monitor and relatively easy to handle and is more a cosmetic issue. Surface foam may cause problems with liquid levels and give overflow leading to pools of oils around the equipment which is a safety concern.\nAdditionally, this might reduce the process speed and availability of process equipment. The main mechanical problem tends to be when foam enters the system as air is a poor lubricant, meaning metal to metal contact can occur.\nMechanical factors that may generate foam and entrapped air:\n\n\nThe main classes of air that are of concern to the mechanical systems are:\n\n\nFoam, entrained and dissolved air that are present in coolants and processing liquids, may cause various kinds of problems, including:\n\n\nThere are several ways to test defoamers.\n\nThe easiest is looking at the surface foam. All that is needed is a system for generating foam. This might be done with a round pumping system with a nozzle and a cylinder or an air injection system into a cylinder. The cylinder is fitted with a scale to measure the foam height. This equipment may have a heater to control the temperature.\n\nEntrained air can be tested with similar equipment that has a density meter that can record changes of the liquor density over time.\n\nDrainage can be tested with a filter system for measuring the time to drain a liquid through the filter. The filter might be pressurized or have a vacuum.\n\nAnti-foams are added in certain types of detergents to reduce foaming that might decrease the action of the detergent. For example, dishwasher detergents have to be low foaming for the dishwasher to work properly.\n\nWhen used as an ingredient in food, antifoaming agents are intended to curb effusion or effervescence in preparation or serving. The agents are included in a variety of foods such as chicken nuggets in the form of polydimethylsiloxane (a type of silicone).\n\nSilicone oil is also added to cooking oil to prevent foaming in deep-frying.\n\nDefoamers are used in many industrial processes and products: wood pulp, paper, paint, industrial wastewater treatment, food processing, oil drilling, machine tool industry, oils cutting tools, hydraulics, etc.\n\nAntifoaming agents are also sold commercially to relieve bloating. A familiar example is the drug Simethicone, which is the active ingredient in drugs such as Maalox, Mylanta, and Gas-X.\n\n"}
{"id": "3740357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3740357", "title": "Devon Labour Briefing", "text": "Devon Labour Briefing\n\nDevon Labour Briefing was a magazine established in Exeter, England, in 1984 by left-wing Labour Party members modelled on London Labour Briefing.\n\n\"Exeter Labour Briefing\", the forerunner of \"Devon Labour Briefing\" (established 1984), was founded in the autumn of 1983. One source of support was the left-wing of the Exeter Pennsylvania/St. Davids branch of the Exeter Labour Party. Following the banning of articles critical of the Party in the branch newsletter, left-wingers decided to set up a publication independent of the Party. A key source of support was Exeter University Labour Club, several of whose members became active participants. Briefing supporters were also in a majority in the Exeter Labour Party Young Socialists, (one of the few branches not controlled by the Militant tendency at that time.) A handful of supporters developed in other Exeter Labour Party branches Rougemont/St. Leonards branch (the City Centre) and Polsloe/Stoke Hill.\n\nThough \"Devon Labour Briefing\" was associated with a London-based national organisation, the focus of its politics was very much the Exeter Labour Party. Briefing accused the city party of being authoritarian, non-socialist, racist and sexist. The local Labour leadership and councillors were deemed 'municipal careerists' who sought status and respectability rather than advancing socialist causes. These intra-Labour Party themes featured prominently in the magazine. \n\n\"Exeter Labour Briefing\", the forerunner of \"Devon Labour Briefing\", began publication in the autumn of 1983. The leadership of Exeter Labour Party almost immediately took disciplinary against the publication on the grounds that the magazine might be confused with an Exeter Labour Party publication. The dispute was temporarily resolved with the magazine being renamed \"Devon Labour Briefing\", following the intervention of Tony Benn MP, a member of the National Executive Committee. \n\nIn 1985, the leadership resumed disciplinary action against the editors of the magazine on the grounds that the magazine was 'prejudicial to interests of the Party.' The leadership interrogated five writers and three were recommended for expulsion from the Labour Party. Before the Management Committee of Exeter Labour Party could decide the issue, the three obtained a High Court injunction stopping the expulsion process as the whole expulsion process seriously breached the rules of natural justice. After initially stating that they would contest the action, the Labour Party withdrew from the case making them liable for court costs.\n\nIn 1987, Exeter Labour Party again began disciplinary action against one person involved with the magazine through the newly formed Labour Party National Constitutional Committee. After a day-long hearing in Exeter the contributor concerned received a formal warning but was not expelled.\n\nIn 1988, the Labour-controlled Exeter City Council in collaboration with the William and Mary Tercentenary Trust planned to celebrate the so-called Glorious Revolution of 1688 on the grounds that Exeter was the first English city in which William III of England set foot. The National Front, the Orange Order and other right wing groups announced that they too would participate in the celebrations. \"Devon Labour Briefing\" opposed the celebrations inside the Labour Party on the grounds that William of Orange was a symbol of Protestant supremacy in Northern Ireland, that the Glorious Revolution did not involve working people and that the celebrations were acting as a magnet for the extreme right. Although \"Devon Labour Briefing\" and other left-wingers won the vote in Exeter Labour Party, the City Council persisted. Key invited figures such as the historian Christopher Hill, however, backed out of the celebrations. The events of 1988 saw the launching of Exeter Anti-Fascist Action, affiliated to Anti-Fascist Action nationally and included supporters of \"Devon Labour Briefing\" and the Workers Revolutionary Party, as well as other independent socialists and anarchists.\n\nAfter Labour's defeat in the 1987 general election, Neil Kinnock, leader of the Labour Party, began a policy review, which sought to change Labour Party policies (e.g., abandonment unilateral nuclear disarmament). \"Labour Briefing\" was facing defeat and marginalisation. In the summer of 1989, \"Devon Labour Briefing\" supporters ceased to play a role in Exeter Labour Party; either through defeat in internal party elections or through resignation. The majority abandoned active party politics; a minority joined the Workers Revolutionary Party and later the Socialist Alliance.\n"}
{"id": "11136739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11136739", "title": "Garrison of Sør-Varanger", "text": "Garrison of Sør-Varanger\n\nGarrison of Sør-Varanger (, GSV) is a military base of the Norwegian Army. It is located at Høybuktmoen in Sør-Varanger Municipality in Finnmark county, Norway. The military base sits adjacent to Kirkenes Airport, Høybuktmoen. The garrison is organized as a battalion and its main job is to guard the Norway–Russia border. It consists of the Training Company (UTDKP), the Support Company (GAKP), the Jarfjord Company (JAR), the Pasvik company (PAS) and the Jeger Company (JGKP). \n\nThe troops stationed at GSV mainly consists of conscripted soldiers. Most of the soldiers are men, but there is also an increasing number of women represented. GSV receives about 400 new conscripts every six months.\nThe first seven weeks of recruit training, which is standard for all military personnel in Norway. After basic training, some of the soldiers are transferred to the garrison company to work in and around the garrison to support the education of the UTDKP, the GRKP itself and the mission-solvance of the GSV border company.\n\nThe rest of the soldiers stay in the education company to become border guards. After six months, through basic training, advanced training and specialist/designated training, the soldiers are divided up and sent to one of the six border stations. \n\nThe border service requires physical and mental stamina, discipline and the ability to think, decide and initiate. The service requires individuals and units to operate independently. The soldiers deployed for border service are basically trained as reconnaissance rangers. Most of the time in the education company consist of field exercise, fire drills and role specialisation. \n\nAt the border, the soldiers are divided into four-man patrol teams. A typical patrol team consist of one patrol commander corporal, one communications technician, one medical specialist and one scout. Not assigned, but perfectly available for the teams are canine corporals, responsible for handling and training the patrol canines, and transportation corporals, responsible for mobility, administrative tasks and maintenance. In addition, a portion of the border guards are assigned with a dual role; reconnaissance and operations headquarters, they also serve as regular border guards.\n\nThe soldiers' main task is to function as border guards on the Russian border, guarding not only the border to a neighbouring country, but also the European border according to the Schengen Agreement. During wartime their task is to monitor enemy advance and gather intelligence on hostile movement, most likely during covert retreat southwards in Norway.\n\nThere is also a separate section of about 10-12 communications soldiers at the Garrison. These are trained by, and belong to the Norwegian Army Signals Corps and are trained at Jørstadmoen close to Lillehammer before they are assigned to GSV. These soldiers man the Main Signals Office (MSO), the operations room (OPS) and manage and maintain the encryption and communications security equipment used by the border stations.\n\n\nIn addition to the border stations, some soldiers also man the checkpoint at Storskog, the only legal crossing point between Norway and Russia. The checkpoint is also manned by the Eastern Finnmark Police District, the Norwegian Customs and Excise Authorities, and the Norwegian Border Commission. \n\nTreaty and sovereignty enforcement of the Norwegian border to Russia is a three-agency operation. The police district is responsible for prosecution, fines, and processing of illegal immigrants, asylum seekers, and border violations. The border commissioner is the policy-making and diplomatic department. It arranges contact and meetings with its Russian counterpart, makes agreements and rules, and is a substantial part of the diplomatic process. The garrison is responsible of military border patrol. The soldiers are granted police authority for border relations and is one of the few Norwegian law enforcement divisions carrying weapons and live ammunition on a daily basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "4532553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4532553", "title": "Gavin McInnes", "text": "Gavin McInnes\n\nGavin Miles McInnes (; born 17 July 1970) is a Canadian writer, actor, and comedian. He is the co-founder of Vice Media and \"Vice Magazine\" and host of \"Get Off My Lawn\" on Conservative Review. He is a contributor to \"Taki's Magazine\" and a former contributor to The Rebel Media, and was a frequent guest on television programs on Fox News and TheBlaze.\n\nMcInnes was a leading figure in the hipster subculture while at Vice, being labelled as the \"godfather\" of hipsterdom. After leaving the company in 2008, he became increasingly known for his far-right political views. He is the founder of the Proud Boys, a chauvinist men's group considered an extremist organisation by the FBI and the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nMcInnes was born in Hitchin in Hertfordshire, England, to Scottish parents, James and Loraine McInnes. His family migrated to Canada when McInnes was four. He attended Ottawa's Earl of March Secondary School. As a teen, McInnes played in the Ottawa punk band \"Anal Chinook\". As an adult, McInnes emigrated to the United States from Canada.\n\nMcInnes co-founded \"Vice\" in 1994 with Shane Smith and Suroosh Alvi. During his tenure there he was described as the \"godfather\" of hipsterdom by WNBC and as \"one of hipsterdom’s primary architects\" by \"AdBusters\". He occasionally contributed articles to \"Vice\", including \"The VICE Guide to Happiness\" and \"The VICE Guide to Picking Up Chicks\", and co-authored two \"Vice\" books: \"The Vice Guide to Sex and Drugs and Rock and Roll\", and \"Vice Dos and Don'ts: 10 Years of VICE Magazine's Street Fashion Critiques\".\n\nIn an interview in the \"New York Press\" in 2002, McInnes said that he was pleased that most Williamsburg hipsters were white. McInnes later wrote in a letter to Gawker that the interview was done as a prank intended to ridicule \"baby boomer media like \"The Times\"\". After he became the focus of a letter-writing campaign by a black reader, \"Vice\" apologized for McInnes's comments. McInnes was featured in a 2003 \"New York Times\" article about \"Vice\" magazine expressing his political views.\n\nIn 2006, he was featured in \"The Vice Guide to Travel\" with actor and comedian David Cross in China. He left \"Vice\" in 2008 due to what he described as \"creative differences\". In a 2013 interview with \"The New Yorker\", McInnes said his split with \"Vice\" was about the increasing influence of corporate advertising on \"Vice's\" content, stating that \"Marketing and editorial being enemies had been the business plan\".\n\nIn 2008, McInnes created the website \"StreetCarnage.com\". He also co-founded an advertising agency called Rooster where he serves as creative director. In 2009, McInnes convinced a journalist at \"The Village Voice\" that he had been knocked out after losing a challenge to an MMA fighter. The footage was actually an outtake from a failed TV pilot. In 2010, McInnes convinced a journalist at Gawker that he had eaten a bowl of urine-soaked corn flakes after not winning their \"Hipster of the Decade\" competition. The footage was actually an outtake from a collection of comedy sketches called \"Gavin McInnes Is a Fucking Asshole\".\n\nMcInnes was featured in Season 3 of the Canadian reality TV show \"Kenny vs. Spenny\", as a judge in the \"Who is Cooler?\" episode. In 2010, McInnes was approached by Adult Swim and asked to play the part of Mick, an anthropomorphic Scottish soccer ball, in the short-lived \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" spin-off \"Soul Quest Overdrive\". After losing a 2010 pilot contest to \"Cheyenne Cinnamon and the Fantabulous Unicorn of Sugar Town Candy Fudge\", six episodes of \"Soul Quest Overdrive\" were ordered, with four airing in Adult Swim's 4 AM DVR Theater block on 25 May 2011 before quickly being cancelled. McInnes jokingly blamed the show's cancellation on the other cast members (Kristen Schaal, David Cross, and H. Jon Benjamin) not being \"as funny\" as him.\n\nIn 2012, McInnes wrote a book called \"How to Piss in Public\". In 2013 he directed \"The Brotherhood of the Traveling Rants\", a documentary on his tour as an occasional standup comedian. For the film, he faked a serious car accident. Also that year, McInnes starred in the independent film \"How to Be a Man\", which premiered at Sundance Next Weekend. He has also played supporting roles in other films including \"Soul Quest Overdrive\" (2010), \"Creative Control\" (2015) and \"One More Time\" (2015).\n\nIn August 2014, McInnes was asked to take an indefinite leave of absence as chief creative officer of Rooster, following online publication at Thought Catalog of an essay about transphobia titled \"Transphobia is Perfectly Natural\" that sparked a call to boycott the company. In response, Rooster issued a statement, saying in part: \"We are extremely disappointed with his actions and have asked that he take a leave of absence while we determine the most appropriate course of action.\" McInnes defended the article by saying \"All I was saying was transsexuals have a huge suicide rate\", and calling the reaction \"fake hysteria\".\n\nIn June 2015, broadcaster Anthony Cumia announced that McInnes would be hosting a show on his network, therefore retiring the Free Speech podcast that he had started in March. \"The Gavin McInnes Show\" premiered on Compound Media on 15 June. McInnes is a former contributor to Canadian far-right portal The Rebel Media and a regular on conspiracy theorist media platform Infowars' \"The Alex Jones Show\", and Fox News' \"Red Eye\", \"The Greg Gutfeld Show\", and \"The Sean Hannity Show\". He writes for \"Taki's Magazine\" and previously wrote for TruthRevolt, Death and Taxes, The Federalist, \"American Renaissance\", and VDARE. McInnes tweeted in December 2015 that every case of domestic abuse he knows about \"was the result of some cunt trying to ruin [a man’s] life\"; he had previously written that women \"want to be downright abused\". In 2016, McInnes referred to Jada Pinkett Smith as a \"monkey actress\" on his radio show.\n\nOn 2 February 2017, in an episode of his YouTube show \"The Rebel\", McInnes announced his resignation from Fox News.\n\nMcInnes left Rebel Media in August 2017, declaring that he was going to be \"a multi-media Howard Stern–meets–Tucker Carlson\". He later joined CRTV, an online television network launched by Conservative Review. The debut episode of his new show \"Get Off My Lawn\" aired on 22 September 2017. On 10 August 2018, McInnes's Twitter account, as well as the account for the Proud Boys, was permanently suspended by Twitter due to their rules against violent extremist groups. The suspension was ahead of the one-year anniversary of the Unite the Right rally, and the scheduled 2018 Unite the Right rally.\n\nOn 12 October 2018, McInnes participated in a reenactment of the 1960 assassination of Inejiro Asanuma by Otoya Yamaguchi at the Metropolitan Republican Club. After the event, a contingent of Proud Boys were caught on tape beating a protester outside the venue, after members of Antifa threw a plastic bottle of urine at them.\n\nOn November 21st, shortly after news broke that the FBI had classified the Proud Boys as an extremist group with ties to white nationalists, McInnes said that his lawyers had advised him that quitting might help the nine members being prosecuted for the incidents in October and he said \"this is 100% a legal gesture, and it is 100% about alleviating sentencing\", and said it was a \"stepping down gesture, in quotation marks\". \n\nLater that month, McInnes was planning on traveling to Australia for a speaking tour with Milo Yiannopolous and Tommy Robinson (Stephen Yaxley-Lennon), but was informed by Australian immigration authorities that \"he was judged to be of bad character\" and would be denied a visa to enter the country. Issuing a visa to McInnes was opposed by an online campaign called \"#BanGavin\", which collected 81,000 signatures.\n\nMcInnes describes himself as libertarian and part of the New Right, a term that he prefers to use rather than alt-light. \"The New York Times\" has described McInnes as a \"far-right provocateur.\"\n\nMcInnes has referred to himself as a \"western chauvinist\" and started a men's organization called Proud Boys who swear their allegiance to this cause.\nThe FBI classifies the Proud Boys \"an extremist group with ties to white nationalism\", according to a document produced by Washington state law enforcement, and the Southern Poverty Law Center classifies it as a hate group. McInnes says that his group is not white nationalist.\n\nIn 2003 McInnes said, \"I love being white and I think it's something to be very proud of. I don't want our culture diluted. We need to close the borders now and let everyone assimilate to a Western, white, English-speaking way of life.\"\n\nMcInnes has been accused of racism and of promoting white supremacist rhetoric. He has stated alleged racial slurs against Susan Rice and Jada Pinkett Smith personally, and more widely against Palestinians and Asians. McInnes has said that there is a \"mass conformity that black people push on each other\", and in 2018, he said there was significant \"black violence\" in the United States, with 8,000 cases a year of black-on-black murder.\n\nIn March 2017, during a trip to Israel with The Rebel Media, McInnes made controversial comments defending Holocaust deniers, accused the Jews of being responsible for the Holodomor and the Treaty of Versailles, and said he was \"becoming anti-Semitic\". He later said his comments were taken out of context. McInnes also produced a comedic video for Rebel called \"Ten Things I Hate about Jews\", later retitled \"Ten Things I Hate About Israel\". In response to the controversy, McInnes said: “I landed, and I’ve got tons of Nazi friends. David Duke and all the Nazis totally think I rock... No offence, Nazis, I don’t want to hurt your feelings, but I don’t like you. I like Jews.”\n\nMcInnes is anti-Islam. He has said that \"Muslims are stupid ... the only thing they really respect is violence and being tough.\" He also has equated Islam with fascism, stating \"Nazis are not a thing. Islam is a thing.\" In April 2018, Mcinnes labelled a significant section of Muslims as both mentally ill and incestuous, claiming that \"Muslims have a problem with inbreeding. They tend to marry their first cousins... and that is a major problem [in the U.S.] because when you have mentally damaged inbreds – which not all Muslims are, but a disproportionate number are – and you have a hate book called the Koran... you end up with a perfect recipe for mass murder.\"\n\nMcInnes has described himself as \"an Archie Bunker sexist.\"\n\nAs early as 2003, Vanessa Grigoriadis in \"The New York Times\" quoted McInnes saying, \"'No means no' is puritanism. I think Steinem-era feminism did women a lot of injustices, but one of the worst ones was convincing all these indie norts that women don't want to be dominated.\" McInnes has been accused of sexism by various media outlets including \"Chicago Sun-Times\", \"Independent Journal Review\", \"Salon\", \"Jezebel\", \"The Hollywood Reporter\", and \"Slate\". In October 2013, McInnes said during a panel interview that \"people would be happier if women would stop pretending to be men\", and that feminism \"has made women less happy\". He explained that \"We've trivialized childbirth and being domestic so much that women are forced to pretend to be men. They're feigning this toughness, they're miserable.\" A heated argument ensued with University of Miami School of Law professor Mary Anne Franks.\n\nMcInnes has espoused the white genocide conspiracy theory saying that white women having abortions and immigration is \"leading to white genocide in the West\". In 2018, regarding South African farm attacks and land reform proposals, he said that black South Africans were not \"trying to get their land back – they never had that land\", instead claiming there were \"ethnic cleansing\" efforts against white South Africans.\n\nIn 2005, McInnes married Manhattan-based publicist and consultant Emily Jendrisak, the daughter of Native American activist Christine Whiterabbit Jendrisak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22742854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22742854", "title": "Government of Transnistria", "text": "Government of Transnistria\n\nThe Government of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic is the political leadership of the unrecognized, but de facto independent, Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic, better known in English as Transnistria.\n\nTransnistria is headed by a president, the current president is Vadim Krasnoselsky. They are served by a cabinet of ministers, which is headed by the Prime Minister; the incumbent is Aleksandr Martynov. Transnistria uses a semi-presidential system, where the president is head of state and the prime minister is head of government.\n\nTransnistria used to have a vice president, but this position was abolished after the 2011 elections, after the constitution had been amended earlier in the year. The last vice president was Aleksandr Korolyov.\n\nSource: \n\nThe Supreme Council or Supreme Soviet is the parliament of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53057791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53057791", "title": "Gračani massacre", "text": "Gračani massacre\n\nThe Massacre of Gračani occurred in May 1945 in Gračani, a neighborhood of Zagreb, Croatia.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, Yugoslav partisans and communists started to persecute \"national enemies\" in Croatia, mostly civilians and captured Croatian and German soldiers. From May 10, 1945, until July 1945, partisans killed around 6,000 people. Most of the victims were civilians who didn't agree with the communist regime. All executions were committed by the 6th Lika Proletarian Division \"Nikola Tesla\" and members of Yugoslav police (\"milicija\").\n\nAll victims were killed in the area of Medvednica. Later, during investigations in the late 1990s, witnesses described the process of torture and killing. They confirmed that victims were fastened with chains and killed by asphyxiation, shooting or decapitation. \n\nThe first victims were exhumed in October 2012, when forensic experts found and identified 783 bodies in one mass grave. In another grave, experts found the bodies of 30 teenagers (16–17 years of age) that were bound by chains and appeared to have been shot.\n\n"}
{"id": "10859133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10859133", "title": "Hardship post", "text": "Hardship post\n\nA hardship post is a term used in the United States Diplomatic Service to describe a diplomatic post where living conditions are difficult due to climate, crime, health care, pollution or other factors.\nEmployees assigned to such posts receive a \"hardship differential\" of between 10 and 35 percent of their salary. A hardship post with security issues, for example in a war zone, may also be a designated hardship post with employees eligible for additional danger pay.\n\n"}
{"id": "51869244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51869244", "title": "Homelessness in Algeria", "text": "Homelessness in Algeria\n\nHomelessness in Algeria is a significant social issue affecting a large number people in the country. Homelessness is caused by natural disasters, lack of adequate housing and domestic issues.\n\nHousing is a significant issue in Algeria, in the 2000s, the country had a deficit of some 125,000 units.\n\nResearchers found that some 250,000 Algerians became homeless as a result of the 2003 Boumerdès earthquake.\n\nChanges in family law in Algeria has led to an increase in women and children becoming homeless. According to some researchers, thousands of mothers live on streets with their children, some hire themselves as domestic servants at very cheap rates. The streets and slums of Algeria's cities are the homes of many divorced women. Homeless women are sometimes able to secure refuge in hostels run by the organisation SOS Women in Distress. However, reportedly the organisation is unable to cope with the number of requests it receives due to a lack of funding.\n"}
{"id": "9583338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9583338", "title": "Impeachment of Andrew Johnson", "text": "Impeachment of Andrew Johnson\n\nThe Impeachment of Andrew Johnson occurred in 1868, when the United States House of Representatives resolved to impeach U.S. President Andrew Johnson, adopting eleven articles of impeachment detailing his \"high crimes and misdemeanors\", in accordance with Article Two of the United States Constitution. The House's primary charge against Johnson was violation of the Tenure of Office Act, passed by the U.S. Congress in March 1867, over the President's veto. Specifically, he had removed from office Edwin McMasters Stanton, the Secretary of War—whom the Act was largely designed to protect—and attempted to replace him with Brevet Major General Lorenzo Thomas. (Earlier, while the Congress was not in session, Johnson had suspended Stanton and appointed General Ulysses S. Grant as Secretary of War \"ad interim.\")\n\nThe House approved the articles of impeachment on March 2–3, 1868, and forwarded them to the Senate. The trial in the Senate began three days later, with Chief Justice of the United States Salmon P. Chase presiding. On May 16, the Senate failed to convict Johnson on one of the articles, with the 35–19 vote in favor of conviction falling short of the necessary two-thirds majority by a single vote. A ten-day recess was called before attempting to convict him on additional articles. The delay did not change the outcome, however, as on May 26, it failed to convict the President on two articles, both by the same margin; after which the trial was adjourned.\n\nThis was the first impeachment of a President since creation of the office in 1789. The culmination of a lengthy political battle between Johnson, a lifelong Democrat and the Republican majority in Congress over how best to deal with the defeated Southern states following the conclusion of the American Civil War, the impeachment, and the subsequent trial (and acquittal) of Johnson were among the most dramatic events in the political life of the nation during the Reconstruction Era. Together, they have gained a historical reputation as an act of political expedience, rather than necessity, which was based on Johnson's defiance of an unconstitutional piece of legislation, and which was conducted with little regard for the will of a general public which, despite the unpopularity of Johnson, opposed the impeachment.\n\nJohnson is one of only three presidents against whom articles of impeachment have been reported to the full House for consideration. In 1974, during the Watergate scandal, the House Judiciary Committee approved articles of impeachment against Richard Nixon, who resigned from office, rather than face certain impeachment and the prospect of being convicted at trial and removed from office. In 1998, Bill Clinton was impeached; he, like Johnson, was acquitted of all charges following a Senate trial.\n\nTension between the executive and legislative branches had been high prior to Johnson's ascension to the presidency. Following Union Army victories at Gettysburg and Vicksburg in July 1863, President Lincoln began contemplating the issue of how to bring the South back into the Union. He wished to offer an olive branch to the rebel states by pursuing a lenient plan for their reintegration. The forgiving tone of the president's plan, plus the fact that he implemented it by presidential directive without consulting Congress, incensed Radical Republicans, who countered with a more stringent plan. Their proposal for Southern reconstruction, the Wade–Davis Bill, passed both houses of Congress in July 1864, but was pocket vetoed by the president and never took effect.\n\nThe assassination of Abraham Lincoln on April 14, 1865, just days after the Army of Northern Virginia's surrender at Appomattox briefly lessened the tension over who would set the terms of peace. The radicals, while suspicious of the new president and his policies, believed, based upon his record, that Andrew Johnson would defer, or at least acquiesce to their hardline proposals. Though a Democrat from Tennessee, Johnson had been a fierce critic of the Southern secession. Then after several states left the Union, including his own, he chose to stay in Washington (rather than resign his U.S. Senate seat), and later, when Union troops occupied Tennessee, Johnson was appointed military governor. While in that position he had exercised his powers with vigor, frequently stating that \"treason must be made odious and traitors punished\". Johnson, however, embraced Lincoln's more lenient policies, thus rejecting the Radicals, and setting the stage for a showdown between the president and Congress. During the first months of his presidency, Johnson issued proclamations of general amnesty for most former Confederates, both government and military officers, and oversaw creation of new governments in the hitherto rebellious statesgovernments dominated by ex-Confederate officials. In February 1866, Johnson vetoed legislation extending the Freedmen's Bureau and expanding its powers; Congress was unable to override the veto. Afterward, Johnson denounced Radical Republicans Representative Thaddeus Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner, along with abolitionist Wendell Phillips, as traitors. Later, Johnson vetoed a Civil Rights Act and a second Freedmen's Bureau bill; the Senate and the House each mustered the two-thirds majorities necessary to override both vetoes, setting the stage for a showdown between Congress and the president.\n\nAt an impasse with Congress, Johnson offered himself directly to the American public as a \"tribune of the people\". In the late-summer of 1866, the president embarked on a national \"Swing Around the Circle\" speaking tour, where he asked his audiences for their support in his battle against the Congress and urged voters to elect representatives to Congress in the upcoming midterm election who supported his policies. The tour backfired on Johnson, however, when reports of his undisciplined, vitriolic speeches and ill-advised confrontations with hecklers swept the nation. Contrary to his hopes, the 1866 elections led to veto-proof Republican majorities in both houses of Congress. As a result, Radicals were able to take control of Reconstruction, passing a series of Reconstruction Acts—each one over the President's veto—addressing requirements for Southern states to be fully restored to the Union. The first of these acts divided those states, excluding Johnson's home state of Tennessee, into five military districts, and each state's government was put under the control of the U.S. military. Additionally, these states were required to enact new constitutions, ratify the Fourteenth Amendment, and guarantee voting rights for black males.\n\nCongress's control of the military Reconstruction policy was mitigated by Johnson's command of the military as president; however, Johnson had inherited, as Secretary of War, Lincoln's appointee Edwin M. Stanton, a staunch Radical Republican, who as long as he remained in office would comply with Congressional Reconstruction policies. To ensure that Stanton would not be replaced, Congress passed the Tenure of Office Act in 1867 over Johnson's veto. The act required the President to seek the Senate's advice and consent before relieving or dismissing any member of his Cabinet (an indirect reference to Stanton) or, indeed, any federal official whose initial appointment had previously required its advice and consent.\nBecause the Tenure of Office Act did permit the President to suspend such officials when Congress was out of session, when Johnson failed to obtain Stanton's resignation, he instead suspended Stanton on August 5, 1867, which gave him the opportunity to appoint General Ulysses S. Grant, then serving as Commanding General of the Army, interim Secretary of War. When the Senate adopted a resolution of non-concurrence with Stanton's dismissal in December 1867, Grant told Johnson he was going to resign, fearing punitive legal action. Johnson, assured Grant that he would assume all responsibility in the matter, and asked him to delay his resignation until a suitable replacement could be found. Contrary to Johnson's belief that Grant had agreed to remain in office, when the Senate voted and reinstated Stanton in January 1868, Grant immediately resigned, before the president had an opportunity to appoint a replacement. Johnson was furious at Grant, accusing him of lying during a stormy cabinet meeting. The March 1868 publication of several angry messages between Johnson and Grant led to a complete break between the two. As a result of these letters, Grant solidified his standing as the frontrunner for the 1868 Republican presidential nomination.\n\nJohnson agonized about Stanton's restoration to office, and undertook a desperate search for someone to replace Stanton whom the Senate might find acceptable. He turned first to General William Tecumseh Sherman, who was an enemy of Stanton's, but Sherman turned the president down. Sherman subsequently suggested to Johnson that Republican radicals and moderates would be amenable to replacing Stanton with Jacob Cox, but he found the president to be no longer interested in appeasement. On February 21, 1868, the president appointed Lorenzo Thomas, a brevet major general in the Army, as interim Secretary of War, ordered the removal of Stanton from office, and informed the Senate of his actions. Thomas personally delivered the president's dismissal notice to Stanton, who refused either to accept its legitimacy or to vacate the premises. Instead, Stanton informed Speaker of the House Schuyler Colfax and President pro tempore of the Senate Benjamin Wade of his plight, then barricaded himself in his office and ordered Thomas arrested for violating the Tenure of Office Act. Thomas remained under arrest for several days, until Stanton, realizing that the case against Thomas would provide the courts with an opportunity to review the constitutionality of the Tenure of Office Act, had the charges dropped.\n\nJohnson's opponents in Congress were outraged by his actions; the president's challenge to congressional authority—with regard to both the Tenure of Office Act and post-war reconstruction—had, in their estimation, been tolerated for long enough. In swift response, an impeachment resolution was introduced in the House by representatives Thaddeus Stevens and John Bingham. Expressing the widespread sentiment among House Republicans, Representative William D. Kelley (on February 22, 1868) declared:\n\nOn February 24, 1868 three days after Johnson's dismissal of Stanton, the House of Representatives voted 126 to 47 (with 17 members not voting) in favor of a resolution to impeach the President for high crimes and misdemeanors. Thaddeus Stevens addressed the House prior to the vote. \"This is not to be the temporary triumph of a political party,\" he said, \"but is to endure in its consequence until this whole continent shall be filled with a free and untrammeled people or shall be a nest of shrinking, cowardly slaves.\"\n\nOne week later, the House adopted eleven articles of impeachment against the President. The articles charged Johnson with:\n\nOn March 4, 1868, amid tremendous public attention and press coverage, the 11 Articles of Impeachment were presented to the Senate, which reconvened the following day as a court of impeachment, with Chief Justice Salmon Chase presiding, and proceeded to develop a set of rules for the trial and its officers. The extent of Chase's authority as presiding officer to render unilateral rulings was a frequent point of contention during the rules debate and trial. He initially maintained that deciding certain procedural questions on his own was his prerogative; but after the Senate challenged several of his rulings, he gave up making rulings. On one occasion, when he ruled that Johnson should be permitted to present evidence that Thomas's appointment to replace Stanton was intended to provide a test case to challenge the constitutionality of the Tenure of Office Act, the Senate reversed the ruling.\n\nWhen it came time for senators to take the juror's oath, Thomas Hendricks questioned Benjamin Wade's impartiality and suggested that Wade abstain from voting due to a conflict of interest. As there was no constitutional provision at the time for filling an intra-term vacancy in the vice presidency (accomplished a century later by the Twenty-fifth Amendment), the office had been vacant since Johnson succeeded to the presidency. Therefore, Wade, as President pro tempore of the Senate, would, under the Presidential Succession Act then in force and effect, become president if Johnson were removed from office. Reviled by the radical majority, Hendricks withdrew his objection a day later and left the matter to Wade's own conscience; he subsequently voted for conviction.\n\nThe House impeachment committee was made up of: John Bingham, George S. Boutwell, Benjamin Butler, John A. Logan, Thaddeus Stevens, James F. Wilson, and Thomas Williams. The president's defense team was made up of Henry Stanbery, William M. Evarts, Benjamin R. Curtis, Thomas A. R. Nelson and William S. Groesbeck. On the advice of counsel, the president did not appear at the trial.\n\nThe trial was conducted mostly in open session, and the Senate chamber galleries were filled to capacity throughout. Public interest was so great that the Senate issued admission passes for the first time in its history. For each day of the trial, 1,000 color coded tickets were printed, granting admittance for a single day.\n\nOn the first day, Johnson's defense committee asked for 40 days to collect evidence and witnesses since the prosecution had had a longer amount of time to do so, but only 10 days were granted. The proceedings began on March 23. Senator Garrett Davis argued that because not all states were represented in the Senate the trial could not be held and that it should therefore be adjourned. The motion was voted down. After the charges against the president were made, Henry Stanbery asked for another 30 days to assemble evidence and summon witnesses, saying that in the 10 days previously granted there had only been enough time to prepare the president's reply. John A. Logan argued that the trial should begin immediately and that Stanberry was only trying to stall for time. The request was turned down in a vote 41 to 12. However, the Senate voted the next day to give the defense six more days to prepare evidence, which was accepted.\n\nThe trial commenced again on March 30. Benjamin F. Butler opened for the prosecution with a three-hour speech reviewing historical impeachment trials, dating from King John of England. For days Butler spoke out against Johnson's violations of the Tenure of Office Act and further charged that the president had issued orders directly to Army officers without sending them through General Grant. The defense argued that Johnson had not violated the Tenure of Office Act because President Lincoln did not reappoint Stanton as Secretary of War at the beginning of his second term in 1865 and that he was therefore a leftover appointment from the 1860 cabinet, which removed his protection by the Tenure of Office Act. The prosecution called several witnesses in the course of the proceedings until April 9, when they rested their case.\n\nBenjamin R. Curtis called attention to the fact that after the House passed the Tenure of Office Act, the Senate had amended it, meaning that it had to return it to a Senate–House conference committee to resolve the differences. He followed up by quoting the minutes of those meetings, which revealed that while the House members made no notes about the fact, their sole purpose was to keep Stanton in office, and the Senate had disagreed. The defense then called their first witness, Adjutant General Lorenzo Thomas. He did not provide adequate information in the defense's cause and Butler made attempts to use his information to the prosecution's advantage. The next witness was General William T. Sherman, who testified that President Johnson had offered to appoint Sherman to succeed Stanton as Secretary of War in order to ensure that the department was effectively administered. This testimony damaged the prosecution, which expected Sherman to testify that Johnson offered to appoint Sherman for the purpose of obstructing the operation, or overthrow, of the government. Sherman essentially affirmed that Johnson only wanted him to manage the department and not to execute directions to the military that would be contrary to the will of Congress.\n\nThe Senate was composed of 54 members representing 27 states (10 former Confederate states had not yet been readmitted to representation in the Senate) at the time of the trial. At its conclusion, senators voted on three of the articles of impeachment. On each occasion the vote was 35–19, with 35 senators voting \"guilty\" and 19 \"not guilty\". As the constitutional threshold for a conviction in an impeachment trial is a two-thirds majority guilty vote—in this case 36 votes—Johnson was not removed from office.\n\nSeven Republican senators were concerned that the proceedings had been manipulated to give a one-sided presentation of the evidence. Senators William Pitt Fessenden (Maine), Joseph S. Fowler (Tennessee), James W. Grimes (Iowa), John B. Henderson (Missouri), Lyman Trumbull (Illinois), Peter G. Van Winkle (West Virginia), and Edmund G. Ross (Kansas), who provided the decisive vote, defied their party by voting against conviction. In addition to the aforementioned seven, three more Republicans James Dixon (Connecticut), James Doolittle (Wisconsin), Daniel Norton (Minnesota), and all nine Democratic Senators voted not guilty.\n\nThe first vote was taken on May 16 for the eleventh article. Prior to the vote, Samuel Pomeroy, the senior senator from Kansas, told the junior Kansas Senator Ross that if Ross voted for acquittal that Ross would become the subject of an investigation for bribery. Afterward, in hopes of persuading at least one senator who voted not guilty to change his vote, the Senate adjourned for 10 days before continuing voting on the other articles. During the hiatus, under Butler's leadership, the House put through a resolution to investigate alleged \"improper or corrupt means used to influence the determination of the Senate\". Despite the Radical Republican leadership's heavy-handed efforts to change the outcome, when votes were cast on May 26 for the second and third articles, the results were the same as the first. After the trial, Butler conducted hearings on the widespread reports that Republican senators had been bribed to vote for Johnson's acquittal. In Butler's hearings, and in subsequent inquiries, there was increasing evidence that some acquittal votes were acquired by promises of patronage jobs and cash cards. Nonetheless, the investigations never resulted in charges, much less convictions, against anyone.\n\nMoreover, there is evidence that the prosecution attempted to bribe the senators voting for acquittal to switch their votes to conviction. Maine Senator Fessenden was offered the Ministership to Great Britain. Prosecutor Butler said, \"Tell [Kansas Senator Ross] that if he wants money there is a bushel of it here to be had.\" Butler's investigation also boomeranged when it was discovered that Kansas Senator Pomeroy, who voted for conviction, had written a letter to Johnson's Postmaster General seeking a $40,000 bribe for Pomeroy's acquittal vote along with three or four others in his caucus. Benjamin Butler was himself told by Ben Wade that Wade would appoint Butler as Secretary of State when Wade assumed the Presidency after a Johnson conviction. An opinion that Senator Ross was mercilessly persecuted for his courageous vote to sustain the independence of the Presidency as a branch of the Federal Government is the subject of an entire chapter in President John F. Kennedy's book, \"Profiles in Courage.\" That opinion has been rejected by some scholars, such as Ralph Roske, and endorsed by others, such as Avery Craven.\n\nNot one of the Republican senators who voted for acquittal ever again served in an elective office. Although they were under intense pressure to change their votes to conviction during the trial, afterward public opinion rapidly shifted around to their viewpoint. Some senators who voted for conviction, such as John Sherman and even Charles Sumner, later changed their minds.\n\nIn 1887, the Tenure of Office Act was repealed by Congress, and subsequent rulings by the United States Supreme Court seemed to support Johnson's position that he was entitled to fire Stanton without Congressional approval. The Supreme Court's ruling on a similar piece of later legislation in the 1926 \"Myers v. United States\" affirmed the ability of the president to remove a postmaster without Congressional approval, and stated in its majority opinion \"that the Tenure of Office Act of 1867 ... was invalid\".\n\nLyman Trumbull of Illinois, one of the ten Republican Senators whose refusal to vote for conviction prevented Johnson's removal from office, noted, in the speech he gave explaining his vote for acquittal, that had Johnson been convicted, the main source of the President's political power—the freedom not to agree with the Congress without consequences—would have been destroyed, and the Constitution's system of checks and balances along with it:\n\nOnce set the example of impeaching a President for what, when the excitement of the hour shall have subsided, will be regarded as insufficient causes, as several of those now alleged against the President were decided to be by the House of Representatives only a few months since, and no future President will be safe who happens to differ with a majority of the House and two thirds of the Senate on any measure deemed by them important, particularly if of a political character. Blinded by partisan zeal, with such an example before them, they will not scruple to remove out of the way any obstacle to the accomplishment of their purposes, and what then becomes of the checks and balances of the Constitution, so carefully devised and so vital to its perpetuity? They are all gone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "396621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396621", "title": "Ivar Giaever", "text": "Ivar Giaever\n\nIvar Giaever (, ; born April 5, 1929) is a Norwegian-American physicist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1973 with Leo Esaki and Brian Josephson \"for their discoveries regarding tunnelling phenomena in solids\". Giaever's share of the prize was specifically for his \"experimental discoveries regarding tunnelling phenomena in superconductors\". Giaever is a professor emeritus at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, a professor-at-large at the University of Oslo, and the president of the company Applied Biophysics.\n\nGiaever earned a degree in mechanical engineering from the Norwegian Institute of Technology in Trondheim in 1952. In 1954, he emigrated from Norway to Canada, where he was employed by the Canadian division of General Electric. He moved to the United States four years later, joining General Electric's Corporate Research and Development Center in Schenectady, New York, in 1958. He has lived in Niskayuna, New York, since then, taking up US citizenship in 1964. While working for General Electric, Giaever earned a Ph.D. degree at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1964.\n\nThe work that led to Giaever's Nobel Prize was performed at General Electric in 1960. Following on Esaki's discovery of electron tunnelling in semiconductors in 1958, Giaever showed that tunnelling also took place in superconductors, demonstrating tunnelling through a very thin layer of oxide surrounded on both sides by metal in a superconducting or normal state. Giaever's experiments demonstrated the existence of an energy gap in superconductors, one of the most important predictions of the BCS theory of superconductivity, which had been developed in 1957. Giaever's experimental demonstration of tunnelling in superconductors stimulated the theoretical physicist Brian Josephson to work on the phenomenon, leading to his prediction of the Josephson effect in 1962. Esaki and Giaever shared half of the 1973 Nobel Prize, and Josephson received the other half.\n\nGiaever's research later in his career was mainly in the field of biophysics. In 1969, he researched Biophysics for a year as a fellow at Clare Hall, University of Cambridge, through a Guggenheim Fellowship, and he continued to work in this area after he returned to the US.\n\nHe has co-signed a letter from over 70 Nobel laureate scientists to the Louisiana Legislature supporting the repeal of Louisiana’s Louisiana Science Education Act.\n\nIn addition to the Nobel Prize, he has also been awarded the Oliver E. Buckley Prize by the American Physical Society in 1965, and the Zworykin Award by the National Academy of Engineering in 1974.\n\nIn 1985 he was awarded an honorary degree, doctor honoris causa, at the Norwegian Institute of Technology, later part of Norwegian University of Science and Technology.\n\nHe is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nGiaever has repeatedly professed skepticism of global warming, calling it a \"new religion.\"\n\nIn a featured story in Norway's largest newspaper, \"Aftenposten\", 26 June 2011, Giaever stated, \"It is amazing how stable temperature has been over the last 150 years.\"\n\nOn 13 September 2011, Giaever resigned from the American Physical Society over its official position. The APS Fellow noted: \"In the APS it is ok to discuss whether the mass of the proton changes over time and how a multi-universe behaves, but the evidence of global warming is incontrovertible?\"\n\nAs part of the 62nd Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting, Giaever commented on the significance of the apparent rise in temperature when he stated, \"What does it mean that the temperature has gone up 0.8 degrees Kelvin: probably nothing.\" Referring to the selection of evidence in his presentation, Giaever stated \"I pick and choose when I give this talk just the way the previous speaker (Mario Molina) picked and chose when he gave his talk.\" Giaever concluded his presentation with a pronouncement: \"Is climate change pseudoscience? If I'm going to answer the question, the answer is: absolutely.\"\n\nGiaever repeated his claims in a speech at the same place in 2015: \"The American Physical Society, which I was a member, say that \"the evidence is incontrovertible\", that global warming exists. Now think about that. This is a physical society and they say you cannot discuss global warming, because we believe it´s happening. It´s like the Catholic Church. There are lots of incontrovertible truth in the Catholic Church some sure. And here are incontrovertible truth in a physical society. So the only answer to that is to resign and I resign in 11.\" He Claims referring to data on global average temperature (GISTEMP) published amongst others by NASA that show global average surface temperature has risen less than 1 K in 140 years, and not risen at all for the years from 2000 - 2014. A main point of Giaever's speech was discussing reliability of the statistical calculation of this temperature with respect to the spatial distribution of measurement locations over the globe, especially what he viewed as poor coverage in the southern hemisphere. \n\nGiaever is currently a science advisor with American conservative and libertarian think tank, The Heartland Institute.\n\nGiaever married his childhood sweetheart Inger Skramstad in 1952. They have four children: John, Anne, Guri and Trine. Giaever is an atheist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36278329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36278329", "title": "Kolejka (game)", "text": "Kolejka (game)\n\nKolejka (; Polish for \"queue\" or \"line (of people)\") is a board game designed by Karol Madaj and launched in February 2011 by Poland's Institute of National Remembrance. It was designed to teach young generations about the hardships under communism (1945–1989), particularly the difficulty of acquiring consumer goods in the shortage economy. The game has been described as inspired by \"Monopoly\".\n\nKolejka is one of several educational and historical games released by Poland's Institute of National Remembrance (IPN). Karol Madaj, the game's creator, said the goal was to \"show young people and remind the older ones what hard times these were and what mechanisms were at play\".\n\nIn keeping with its educational goal, the cards illustrate historical goods of the era in which they were sold, and the game is accompanied by an historical brochure explaining the economic realities of the shortage economy in communist Poland. The first Polish edition was also distributed with a documentary film. Polish historian Andrzej Zawistowski supervised the game's design for historical accuracy.\n\nThe game is played by two to five players, each controlling five pawns, representing their family members. Each family needs to do some shopping for events such as birthdays or holidays, however each player faces the problem of a shortage of needed goods. The stores are mostly empty, and there is no certainty as to what will be delivered or when and where it will be delivered. The players have to decide which store to queue in front of, and can play various event cards such as \"This isn't your place\", \"Colleague in the government\", or \"Store closed\", changing the order of the pawns in the queue (which represents jumping the queue, or forcing other players out of it). Goods can also be exchanged on the bazaar (black market). The first player to collect the required set of goods cards is the winner.\n\nAn international version of the board game, which includes manuals and translation stickers in Polish, English, German, Spanish, Japanese and Russian, was released in 2012. A French edition was added in 2013, and a Romanian version called \"Stai la coadă\" (\"Stand in line\") was released later that year, on November 26.\n\nAn expansion, \"Ogonek\" (Polish for \"curved end of the queue\", lit. \"tail\"), adding another player and a number of additional cards and supplementary educational materials, was also released.\n\nBy July 2012 the game has sold 20,000 copies of the Polish edition within a year and has been described as best selling. By June 2014, the total production run of the game was almost 100,000 copies. It has also proven popular abroad. In the summer of 2014, IPN sold the game's license to a private company (Trefl), citing its inability to efficiently manage the game's production, demand for which regularly exceeded IPN's production budget, and led—ironically, as numerous sources described—to shortages in the game's availability.\n\nThe game has received good reviews, both for its game play and its educational value. It has been used in history classes. The game received the 2012 \"Gra Roku\" (Game of the Year) Polish board gaming award, becoming the first Polish board game to receive this particular award.\n\nIn 2016, some rumours appeared that Rospotrebnadzor declared \"Kolejka\" \"anti-Russian\" and excessively critical of the Soviet system; it said the game would be banned in Russia unless direct historical references were removed, which IPN refused to do. Andrzej Zawistowski, IPN's director of education, said that \"When Russia takes the Soviet Union's history as its own, it leads to some Russians thinking that criticizing the Soviet Union as a totalitarian regime is the same as attacking contemporary Russia.\". Later on, it was revealed that it was the initiative of the distributing company, and the staff of Rospotrebnadzor first heard the story from mainstream news.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57554932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57554932", "title": "Kreuzpflicht", "text": "Kreuzpflicht\n\nThe (‘cross obligation’) is a requirement for a cross to be mounted at the entrance of public buildings in the German federal state of Bavaria. The regulation was enacted by the state government of Bavaria in 2018. Colleges, museums and theaters are exempt from the rule, but the state government still recommends that they should display crosses.\n\nAlthough the majority of Germans nationally oppose the policy by a wide margin, one poll has shown 56% of voters in highly conservative and religious Bavaria as supporting the policy.\n\nThe regulation has been widely criticized from many different civil society organizations, with opponents including Christian organizations and leaders including Cardinal Reinhard Marx. the chairman of the German Bishops' Conference, and by Thomas Sternberg of the Central Committee of German Catholics, who described the crucifix as \"not suitable for election purposes\".\n\nSome observers have stated that the regulation may be prohibited by Article 4 of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany that guarantees freedom of faith and conscience. The Bavarian Prime Minister Markus Söder has stated that the crosses are not intended to be a Christian symbol, but a symbol of Bavarian cultural identity.\n\nSome observers have described the as a measure to appeal to voters deserting the Christian-democratic conservative CSU for the right-wing nationalist AfD party. The AfD has criticized the as \"gesture politics\".\n\nGerman artists, scientists and students have protested the regulation. British-Irish artist Darren Cullen sent out dozens of crucifixes to Bavarian state buildings, having altered each cross that the hanging hook was on the bottom edge, forcing the crucifix to be hung upside down. The packages contained instructions and a letter designed to look like official Bavarian state communications. It was a project funded and assisted by the non-theistic Satanic Temple's UK chapter.\n\n"}
{"id": "28026391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28026391", "title": "KwikMed", "text": "KwikMed\n\nKwikMed is an approved online pharmacy in the United States which has been granted regulatory approval to operate and sell medications online. Based in Salt Lake City, Utah, KwikMed's parent company, Phoenix Capital Management, is located in Scottsdale, Arizona. Specifically, KwikMed has been granted regulatory approval to prescribe medications for erectile dysfunction, male pattern hair loss and smoking cessation provided specific operating procedures are followed.\n\nKwikMed has been involved in the creation of legislation in the state of Utah focused on creating a structural framework for the delivery of healthcare online and for the fulfillment of prescriptions on the Internet. On March 30, 2010, the State of Utah became the first state to establish a regulatory board specifically focused on regulating Internet pharmacies. This regulatory board is composed of experts in the healthcare field who are focused on facilitating the safe and effective delivery of health care online. Utah signed into law S.B. 274, the \"Online Prescribing, Dispensing, and Facilitation Act\" which was sponsored by Utah State Senator Curt Bramble and Representative Rebecca D. Lockhart.\n\nOctober 16, 2001 - KwikMed was purchased by Peter Ax, managing partner of Phoenix Capital Management (PCM). Peter Ax was formerly senior vice president and head of private equity at Lehman Brothers where he was responsible for the institutional private placement of late stage venture capital financing. The previous owners of KwikMed were criminally prosecuted for writing prescriptions on the Internet without a valid physician and for illegally repackaged medications obtained from a drug wholesaler.\n\nThe cornerstone of KwikMed's health delivery system has been the creation of advanced software which takes a complete online medical history of the patient by asking specific questions of the patient. Depending upon how the patient responds, additional questions may be asked. All of the patient data collected during that online interview is compared to standardized medical scales to see if the patient is an alcoholic, is suffering from a mental illness, smokes too much, has an aggressive personality, etc... All of this information is collected by KwikMed physicians who then make a determination to 1) treat the patient with the patient requested medication, 2) suggest alternatives therapies for the patient, 3) collect additional data by email or phone call, 4)that the patient must be treated in a face-to-face setting and not allow any prescription to be written for this patient.\n\n\nSince 2001, Peter Ax and KwikMed have been involved in the development of regulatory standards for online pharmacy safety. Through discussions with physicians, medical experts, state and federal legislators, and regulators, KwikMed has developed a version of an electronic medical record and patented online medical assessment software that has become a standard for the online prescribing of medications. Recently enacted Utah legislation codified KwikMed business practices in what has become the standard for states wanting to enact legislation to regulate and protect its citizens. In 2010 Utah passed the Online Prescribing, Dispensing, and Facilitation Act . The audio version of the Utah state legislature hearing is also available online.\n\nThe first face to face meeting between and among PCM, its counsel, members of the Utah DOPL and representatives of the Utah Attorney General's office took place in February 2002.\nDuring this meeting the following was established -\n\nUtah DOPL and PCM enter into The Utah Consent Order in December 2002. The Consent Order required KwikMed (PCM) to design and implement an appropriate interactive medical assessment tool to be used by website users to ensure that each user provides a complete detailed medical history and physical evaluation sufficient to enable PCM's contract physicians to establish a diagnosis and to identify underlying conditions and/or contra-indications to the treatments recommended by those physicians. By the terms of this agreement, PCM was required to secure the DOPL's approval before any additional drugs could be prescribed and dispensed via the website. These medications included the erectile dysfunction medication Viagra and the male pattern hair loss medication Propecia. Although DOPL originally granted approval for PCM to dispense the weight loss drug Xenical and the arthritis medication Celebrex, PCM later asked to have these two removed from its approved list of drugs based on PCM's concern over the safety of these medications. Later, two addition erectile dysfunction medications, Cialis and Levitra, and the smoking cessation medication,Chantix, were added to the list of approved medications for PCM to distribute with a valid prescription.\n\nAdditionally, by entering into the Consent Order, PCM agreed to allow the DOPL representatives to access PCM's contract physicians and pharmacies to inspect medical and pharmacy records, as permitted by state regulations.\n\nIn August 2008, the \"Mayo Clinic Proceedings\" vol. 83 no. 8 issue included published the findings of research conducted at the University of Utah. This research compared KwikMed's model for the online delivery of healthcare to more traditional interactions between physicians and patients which typically take place in a face-to-face office setting.\n\nThe following researchers took part in the study: Mark A. Munger, PharmD; Gregory J. Stoddard, MS; Allen R. Wenner, MD; John W. Bachman, MD; John H. Jurige, MD; Laura Poe, RN; and Diana L. Baker, RN.\n\nThe objective: to discover if an online medical consultation could diagnosis and treat erectile dysfunction as safely as a traditional face-to-face visit with a physician.\n\nThe study was designed with by comparing electronic medical records. 102,734 of these records came from KwikMed and 110,000 were the University of Utah multidisciplinary primary care systems records. The study then consisted of 500 stratified random sampling of e-medicine records.\n\nDemographics, medical history, drug history\nSafety comparisons\nUnmatched samples (balancing groups)\n\nPhysical examination\n\nMedian: < 1 year\n\n\nED prescription outcomes \n\n\n\nOnline pharmacy\ne-medicine\nVirtual pharmacy\n\n"}
{"id": "13909910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13909910", "title": "Little Treaty of Versailles", "text": "Little Treaty of Versailles\n\nLittle Treaty of Versailles or the Polish Minority Treaty was one of the bilateral Minority Treaties signed between minor powers and the League of Nations in the aftermath of the First World War. The Polish treaty was signed on 28 June 1919, the same day as the main Treaty of Versailles was signed, which is the reason for one of its names. It was the first of the Minority Treaties and served as a template for the subsequent ones; together with Articles 87-93 of Treaty of Versailles, it also formally established Poland as a sovereign and independent state on the international arena.\n\nPoland regained independence (as the Second Polish Republic), after 123 years of partitions, in the aftermath of the First World War. The victorious powers decided that due to significant non-Polish minorities on areas claimed by Poland (which historically controlled many Lithuanian and Ruthenian territories under the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and would likely inherit a substantial German minority within its new borders) and the ongoing civilian strife caused by the local wars (in particular the Polish-Ukrainian War of 1918-1919 and Polish-Soviet War of 1919-1920), Poland had to sign the treaty in exchange for Polish independence and for Poland to sign the peace treaty with Germany (the Article 93 of the Treaty of Versailles stated that: \"Poland accepts... provisions... to protect the interests of inhabitants of Poland who differ from the majority of the population in race, language, or religion\"). In addition, the treaty declared that Poland had to take over a part of debts of Russian state and grant a most favored nation clause in transit trade to \"Allied and Associated States\" (Articles 14-18).\n\nThe Polish government declared its support for \"total and complete protection of life and freedom of all people regardless of their birth, nationality, language, race or religion\" (Article 2) and religious tolerance (Article 7 which stated that \"difference of religion, creed, or confession shall not prejudice any Polish national in matters relating to the enjoyment of civil or political rights, as for instance the admission to Public employment, functions and honors, or the exercise of professions and industries\"). Provisions of the treaty \"were obligations of international importance and were guaranteed by the League of Nations\".\n\nThey could not be changed \"without consent of majority of the League of Nations Council\" (Article 12). National minorities could direct their complaints to the League of Nations Council. Difference of opinions \"in legal or actual matters\" between Poland and any of the western powers or any of the members of the League of Nations Council, which would result from provisions of the treaty was to have an international character (Article 12).\n\nThe treaty was signed by Polish representatives at Versailles (Roman Dmowski, Ignacy Paderewski) on 28 June 1919, the same day as the main Treaty of Versailles (hence it is known as \"Little\" or \"Small Treaty of Versailles\". The parliament of Poland, the Sejm, ratified the treaty on 31 July 1919; the treaty was implemented on 10 January 1920. Poland renounced it at the League of Nations forum in Geneva on 13 September 1934.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31754619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31754619", "title": "Marriage promotion", "text": "Marriage promotion\n\nMarriage promotion is a policy aiming to produce “strong families” for the purposes of social security; as found in 21st-century American maternalism.\n\nThe George W. Bush Administration had focused on government marriage promotion as the solution to the high poverty rates experienced by single-parent families, diverting to marriage promotion tens of millions of dollars appropriated by Congress for other purposes, and successfully lobbying Congress to establish a federal marriage promotion program. These programs seek to get unmarried parents to marry and to deter separation or divorce.\n\nOne of the earliest known marriage promotion laws, the \"Lex Papia Poppaea\", imposed penalties on those who refused to get married before a certain age. Provisions against adultery were also made in this law. \"Caelibes\" could not take an \"hereditas\" or a legacy (\"legatum\"); but if a person was \"caelebs\" at the time of the testator's death, and was not otherwise disqualified (\"jure civili\"), he might take the \"hereditas\" or \"legatum\", if he obeyed the law within one hundred days, that is, if he married within that time (Ulp. Frag. xvii.1). If he did not comply with the law, the gift became \"caducum\" (subject to escheat).\n\nMargaret Talbot, a staff writer at \"The New Yorker\", wrote:\nMore than half of all births to American women under the age of thirty now take place outside of marriage, and children who grow up without married parents are less likely to go to college and to find employment, and are more likely to live in poverty, to become pregnant as teen-agers, and to go to prison than children with married parents. \n\nThe late James Q. Wilson wrote:\n\nAlmost everyone agrees that children in mother-only homes suffer harmful consequences: these youngsters are more likely than those in two-parent families to be suspended from school, have emotional problems, become delinquent, suffer from abuse, and take drugs. - February 17, 2002\n\nMarriage promotion includes laws, budget allocations, administrative regulations, think-tank recommendations, and operating programs that work in the favor of married people while disfavoring unmarried people. Heterosexual couples are told to enter and stay in government-certified marriages in order to be economically successfully and responsible citizens. This concept more or less coincides with the concept of a covenant marriage. Same-sex marriage and cohabitation are ignored by all marriage promotion programs due to moral reasons. This promotion has its roots in the roots in the 1996 Welfare Reform Act. This legislation permitted American states to deny assistance to fully qualified applicants - resulting in the abrogation of some applicants' constitutional rights.\n\nChildbirth with marriage is supported along with the marriage promotion as two people can raise a baby better than an unwed mother or father. Marriage was promoted in the 1990s in order to promote family values. Rising divorce rates in the 1980s and 1990s in addition to plummeting marriage rates, however, allowed then-current U.S. President George W. Bush to pass a nationwide marriage promotion law in the 2000s.\n\nA major impetus behind marriage promotion is increasing father involvement. Low-income fathers are forced to take more responsibility for childrearing and their relationships with female partners. From a starting point of underfunded schools, poverty and family chaos, they often do poorly in school and drop out. Fathers are urged to get married to the women that they impregnate so that they can establish traditional families, according to the \"Alliance for Marriage\".\n\nMarriage promotion may also lead to discrimination against single-parent families that actually increases their poverty and hardship. Some marriage promotion supporters advocate promoting marriage by excluding single-parent families from some public benefits. Marriage promotion also teaches women to be dependent on a spouse instead of being economically independent.\n"}
{"id": "47009771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47009771", "title": "Mass media and American politics", "text": "Mass media and American politics\n\nMass media and American politics covers the role of newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and social media from the colonial era to the present.\n\nThe first newspapers appeared in major port cities such as Philadelphia, New York, Boston, and Charleston in order to provide merchants with the latest trade news. They typically copied any news that was received from other newspapers, or from the London press. The editors discovered they could criticize the local governor and gain a bigger audience; the governor discovered he could shut down the newspapers. The most dramatic confrontation came in New York in 1734, where the governor brought John Peter Zenger to trial for criminal libel after his paper published some satirical attacks. Zenger's lawyers argued that truth was a defense against libel and the jury acquitted Zenger, who became the iconic American hero for freedom of the press. The result was an emerging tension between the media and the government. Literacy was widespread in America, with over half of the white men able to read. The illiterates often could hear newspapers read aloud at local taverns. By the mid-1760s, there were 24 weekly newspapers in the 13 colonies (only New Jersey was lacking one), and the satirical attack on government became common practice in American newspapers. The French and Indian war (1757–63) was the featured topic of many newspaper stories, giving the colonials a broader view of American affairs. Benjamin Franklin, already famous as a printer in Philadelphia published one of the first editorial cartoons, \"Join, or Die\", calling on the colonies to join together to defeat the French. By reprinting news originating in other papers, colonial printers created a private network for evaluating and disseminating news for the whole colonial world. Franklin took the lead, and eventually had two dozen newspapers in his network. The network played a major role in organizing opposition to the Stamp Act, and in organizing and embolding the Patriots in the 1770s.\n\nColonial newspaper networks played a major role in fomenting the American Revolution, starting with their attack on the Stamp Act of 1765. They provided essential news of what was happening locally and in other colonies, and they provided the arguments used by the patriots, to Voice their grievances such as \"No taxation without representation!\" The newspapers also printed and sold pamphlets, such as the phenomenally successful \"Common Sense\" (1776), which destroyed the king's prestige and jelled Patriot opinion overnight in favor of independence. Neutrality became impossible, and the few Loyalist newspapers were hounded and ceased publication when the war began. However, the British controlled important cities for varying periods of time, including New York City, 1776 to 1783. They sponsored a Loyalist press that vanished in 1783.\n\nWith the formation of the first two political parties in the 1790s, Both parties set up national networks of newspapers to provide a flow of partisan news and information for their supporters. The newspapers also printed pamphlets, flyers, and ballots that voters could simply drop in the ballot box.\n\nBy 1796, both parties had a national network of newspapers, which attacked each other vehemently. The Federalist and Republican newspapers of the 1790s traded vicious barbs against their enemies.\n\nThe most heated rhetoric came in debates over the French Revolution, especially the Jacobin Terror of 1793–94 when the guillotine was used daily. Nationalism was a high priority, and the editors fostered an intellectual nationalism typified by the Federalist effort to stimulate a national literary culture through their clubs and publications in New York and Philadelphia, and through Federalist Noah Webster's efforts to simplify and Americanize the language.\n\nAt the height of political passion came in 1798 as the Federalists in Congress passed the four Alien and Sedition Acts. The fourth Act made it a federal crime to publish \"any false, scandalous, or malicious writing or writings against the Government of the United States, with intent to defame... Or to bring them... into contempt or disrepute.\" Two dozen men were charged with felonies for violating the Sedition Act, chiefly newspaper editors from the Jeffersonian Republican Party. The act expired in 1801.\n\nBoth parties relied heavily on their national network of newspapers. Some editors were the key political players in their states, and most of them filled their papers with useful information on rallies and speeches and candidates, as well as the text of major speeches and campaign platforms.\n\nNewspapers continued their role as the main internal communication system for the Army-style campaigns of the era. The goal was not to convince independents, who are few in number, but to rally all the loyal party members to the polls by making them enthusiastic about the party's platform, and apprehensive about the enemy.\n\nNearly all weekly and daily papers were party organs until the early 20th century. Thanks to Hoe's invention of high-speed rotary presses for city papers, and free postage for rural sheets, newspapers proliferated. In 1850, the Census counted 1,630 party newspapers (with a circulation of about one per voter), and only 83 \"independent\" papers. The party line was behind every line of news copy, not to mention the authoritative editorials, which exposed the 'stupidity' of the enemy and the 'triumphs' of the party in every issue. Editors were senior party leaders, and often were rewarded with lucrative postmasterships. Top publishers, such as Horace Greeley, Whitelaw Reid, Schuyler Colfax, Warren Harding and James Cox were nominated on the national ticket. After 1900, William Randolph Hearst, Joseph Pulitzer and other big city politician-publishers discovered they could make far more profit through advertising, at so many dollars per thousand readers. By becoming non-partisan they expanded their base to include the opposition party and the fast-growing number of consumers who read the ads but were less and less interested in politics. There was less and less political news after 1900, apparently because citizens became more apathetic, and shared their partisan loyalties with the new professional sports teams that attracted larger and larger audiences.\n\nThe American Newspaper industry during this era had been massively expanding. The number of English-language newspapers had nearly tripled during this time. Technology had a hand to do with this because of faster printing presses, and more efficient transportation. Newspapers such as the New York World and the New York Journal appealed to a wide variety of audiences with pages devoted to finances, sports, women, entertainment, etc. Special Interest newspapers were also on the rise during this period with many different groups pushing their agenda through newspapers and other forms of media. These special interest newspapers include the National American Woman Suffrage Association's Woman's Journal, The Anti-Saloon League's American Issue, and others. There even came a time that there was up to nine publications in the major cities such as Chicago, Boston, and New York which in turn created fierce competition. Competition caused these publications to lower their prices to just a penny just to stay afloat. \n\nMagazines were not a new medium but they became much more popular around 1900, some with circulations in the hundreds of thousands of subscribers. Thanks to the rapid expansion of national advertising, the cover price fell sharply to about 10 cents. One cause was the heavy coverage of corruption in politics, local government and big business, especially by \"Muckrakers.\" They were journalists in the Progressive Era (1890s-1920s) who wrote for popular magazines to expose social and political sins and shortcomings. They relied on their own investigative journalism reporting; muckrakers often worked to expose social ills and corporate and political corruption. Muckraking magazines–notably \"McClure's\"–took on corporate monopolies and crooked political machines while raising public awareness of chronic urban poverty, unsafe working conditions, and social issues like child labor. These Journalists were nicknamed muckrakers by Theodore Roosevelt because he complained they were being disruptive by raking up the muck.\nRay Stannard Baker, George Creel, and Brand Whitlock specialized in exposing corruption at the state and local levels. Lincoln Steffens went after corruption in big cities. Ida Tarbell attacked John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company. Most of the muckrakers wrote nonfiction, but fictional exposes often had a major impact as well, such as those by Upton Sinclair. He is best known for exposing the corrupt meatpacking industry and the horrific working conditions of men working in these factories and the contamination in the meat.\n\nMost of the major newspapers in the larger cities were owned by conservative publishers and they turned hostile to liberal President Franklin D Roosevelt by 1934 or so, including major chains run by William Randolph Hearst. Roosevelt turned to radio, where he could reach more listeners more directly. During previous election campaigns , the parties sponsored nationwide broadcasts of major speeches. Roosevelt, however, gave intimate talks, person-to-person, as if he were in the same room sitting next to the fireplace. His rhetorical technique was extraordinarily effective. However, it proved very hard to duplicate. Young Ronald Reagan, beginning a career in as a radio broadcaster and Hollywood star, was one of the few to match the right tone, nuance, and intimacy that Roosevelt had introduced.\n\nIn peacetime, Freedom of the press was not an issue for newspapers. However radio presented the new issue, for the government control the airwaves and licensed them. The Federal Communications Commission ruled in the \"Mayflower decision\" in 1941 against the broadcasting of any editorial opinion, although political parties could still purchase airtime for their own speeches and programs. This policy was replaced in 1949 by the \"Fairness Doctrine\" which allowed editorials, if opposing views were given equal time.\n\nTelevision arrived in the American home in the 1950s, and immediately became the main campaign medium. Party loyalties had weakened and there was a rapid growth in the number of independents. As a result candidates Paid less attention to rallying diehard supporters and instead appealed to independent-minded voters. They adopted television advertising techniques as their primary campaign device. At first the parties paid for long-winded half-hour or hour long speeches. By the 1960s, they discovered that the 30-second or one-minute commercial, repeated over and over again, was the most effective technique. It was expensive, however, so fund-raising became more and more important in winning campaigns.\n\nMajor technological innovations transformed the mass media. Radio, already overwhelmed by television, transformed itself into a niche service. It developed an important political dimension based on Talk radio. Television survived with a much reduced audience, but remained the number one advertising medium for election campaigns. Newspapers were in desperate trouble; most afternoon papers closed, and most morning papers barely survived, as the Internet undermined both their advertising and their news reporting.\n\nThe new social media, such as Facebook and Twitter, made use first of the personal computer and the Internet, and after 2010 of the smart phones to connect hundreds of millions of people, especially those under age 35. By 2008, politicians and interest groups were experimenting with systematic use of social media to spread their message among much larger audiences than they had previously reached.\n\nAs political strategists turn their attention to the 2016 presidential contest, they identify Facebook as an increasingly important advertising tool. Recent technical innovations have made possible more advanced divisions and subdivisions of the electorate. Most important, Facebook can now deliver video ads to small, highly targeted subsets. Television, by contrast, shows the same commercials to all viewers, and so cannot be precisely tailored. Online presence is vital to the success of a presidential candidate's campaign. Social media presence lets candidates: have direct access to voters, advertise for free, and fundraise, among other benefits.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48806256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48806256", "title": "Ministry of Public Administration", "text": "Ministry of Public Administration\n\nThe Ministry of Public Administration () (abbreviated as Mopa) is primarily responsible for management of public administration in Bangladesh. \nPresent minister is Syed Ashraful Islam and Minister of State is Ismat Ara Sadique. </br>\nPresent secretary is Faiz Ahmed.\n\n"}
{"id": "5057820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5057820", "title": "National Science &amp; Mathematics Access to Retain Talent Grant", "text": "National Science &amp; Mathematics Access to Retain Talent Grant\n\nThe National Science and Mathematics Access to Retain Talent (SMART) Grant was a need based federal grant that was awarded to undergraduate students in their third and fourth year of undergraduate studies. The National SMART grant was introduced to help maintain the edge that United States has in the fields of Science and Technology. Only specific majors were eligible for the SMART grant, the complete list is given below.\n\nThe National Science and Mathematics Access to Retain Talent (SMART) Grant was introduced by Senator Bill Frist, R-Tennessee and approved by the Senate on 21 December 2005 as part of the Higher Education Reconciliation Act. President Bush signed the bill into law on Feb 8, 2006. IMPORTANT NOTE: This program ended June 30, 2011\n\nApplying for the National SMART grant requires the student and the student's family to complete a Free Application For Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. Eligible students based on GPA, major and Pell Grant eligibility will be identified by the educational institute. The applicant does not need to file a separate application for being considered for a SMART grant.\n\nThe student must be a U.S Citizen, must be enrolled in a qualifying four year degree program, must be in the third or fourth year of the program, must be eligible to receive a Pell Grant in the same year, must maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 \n\nEligible degree programs or majors for the SMART grant are Science (including Computer Science, Physical and Life Sciences), Engineering, Technology, Mathematics, Liberal Arts and Sciences, Critical foreign language studies and certain natural resource conservation and multidisciplinary programs.\n\nIn August 2006, \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" noted that evolutionary biology had been removed from the list of qualifying majors. This caused concern among some scientists and educators, who feared that the omission was deliberate and politically motivated. The Department of Education has denied this, stating that the major was removed from the list inadvertently, and that it would correct the omission.\n\nIn September 2006, evolutionary biology, along with exercise physiology, were added to the list of eligible majors.\n\nThe grant awards a maximum of $4,000 a year. The amount of the SMART Grant, when combined with a Pell Grant, may not exceed the student's cost of attendance. In addition, if the number of eligible students is large enough that payment of the full grant amounts would exceed the program appropriation in any fiscal year, then the amount of the grant to each eligible student may be ratably reduced.\n\nAccording to the Binghamton University website, \"The SMART Grant program is only funded through the 2010-11 academic year. The grant will not be available for the 2011-2012 year and beyond.\" The SMART Grant was dissolved in April 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "40555216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40555216", "title": "New Deal (British political party)", "text": "New Deal (British political party)\n\nNew Deal was a registered political party in the United Kingdom. Its founder was Professor Alan Sked, who also founded the UK Independence Party (UKIP).\n\nPolicies of the New Deal party included 'direct and transparent democracy' and 'liberal values without prejudice to race, religion, gender, etc.\" New Deal has been labelled the 'leftwing version of UKIP'.\n\n\"New Deal\" is described by its founder, Professor Alan Sked, as a centre-left political party, committed to withdrawal from the European Union. He criticises UKIP as turning into \"...a far-right and what I think is an extremist and racist party\".\n\nThe term \"New Deal\", first used by US president Franklin D. Roosevelt, was also used by Tony Blair's government from 1997 to describe changes to welfare and unemployment policy.\n\nThe same year the party was launched, Sked became ill, his mother became sick and his brother died. As of June 2016, the party has been de-registered by Electoral Commission for having never fielded a single candidate in any election. The party boycotted the 2014 European Elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "226958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226958", "title": "Non-native pronunciations of English", "text": "Non-native pronunciations of English\n\nNon-native pronunciations of English result from the common linguistic phenomenon in which non-native users of any language tend to carry the intonation, phonological processes and pronunciation rules from their first language or first languages into their English speech. They may also create innovative pronunciations for English sounds not found in the speaker's first language.\n\nThe speech of non-native English speakers may exhibit pronunciation characteristics that result from their imperfectly learning the sound system of English, either by transferring the phonological rules from their mother tongue into their English speech (\"interference\") or through implementing strategies similar to those used in primary language acquisition. They may also create innovative pronunciations for English sounds not found in the speaker's first language.\n\nThe age at which speakers begin to immerse themselves into a language (such as English) is linked to the degree in which native speakers are able to detect a non-native accent; the exact nature of the link is disputed amongst scholars and may be affected by \"neurological plasticity, cognitive development, motivation, psychosocial states, formal instruction, language learning aptitude\", and the usage of their first (L1) and second (L2) languages.\n\nEnglish is unusual in that speakers rarely produce an audible release between consonant clusters and often overlap constriction times. Speaking English with a timing pattern that is dramatically different may lead to speech that is difficult to understand.\n\nMore transparently, differing phonological distinctions between a speaker's first language and English create a tendency to neutralize such distinctions in English, and differences in the inventory or distribution of sounds may cause substitutions of native sounds in the place of difficult English sounds and/or simple deletion. This is more common when the distinction is subtle between English sounds or between a sound of English and of a speaker's primary language. While there is no evidence to suggest that a simple absence of a sound or sequence in one language's phonological inventory makes it difficult to learn, several theoretical models have presumed that non-native speech perceptions reflect both the abstract phonological properties and phonetic details of the native language.\n\nNon-native pronunciations may be transmitted to the children of learners, who will then exhibit a number of the same characteristics despite being native speakers themselves. For example, this process has resulted in many of the distinctive qualities of Irish English and Highland English which were heavily influenced by a Goidelic substratum.\n\nGeneral features among most or all Arabic speakers:\n\n\nDialectal features:\n\n\n\nThese are the most common characteristics of the Czech pronunciation of English:\n\nThese are some of the most significant errors a Dutch speaker might have:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA study on Italian children's pronunciation of English revealed the following characteristics:\n\nIn addition, Italians learning English have a tendency to pronounce words as they are spelled, so that \"walk\" is , \"guide\" is , and \"boiled\" is . This is also true for loanwords borrowed from English as \"water\", which is pronounced instead of .\n\n\nVarious pronunciation mistakes are bound to happen among Brazilian L2 speakers of English, among which:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: There are three main dialects in Vietnamese, a northern one centered on Hanoi, a central one whose prestige accent is centered on Huế, and a southern one centered on Ho Chi Minh City.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21345026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21345026", "title": "Northeast Kingdom Community Action", "text": "Northeast Kingdom Community Action\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action (NEKCA) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit community agency, founded in 1964 to address the needs of disadvantaged residents in Vermont's Northeast Kingdom and primarily funded by government grants. \n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action's headquarters is located in the historic United States Customs House Building at 70 Main Street in Newport, Vermont. It has administrative offices in St. Johnsbury and Newport with satellite facilities in Island Pond and Canaan. The organization is led by Executive Director Joe Patrissi and Chair Ellen Stanley.\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action administers a Head Start program. and a number of programs aimed at Vermonters with low incomes.\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action maintains several services for youths: transition services from foster care and for the homeless; program for runaways; court diversion for non-violent crimes; Vermont Youth Development Corps/Americorps; Juvenile restorative program ensuring youths responsible make restitution as required; street checkers on probabationers; street (peer) outreach; and Teen Center. They serve about 6,000 families annually.\n\nThe agency advises micro-businesses in the process of starting up.\n\nAn outreach department assists residents with low incomes to receive needed help through referrals, advocacy, and case management.\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action provides 24-hour support to victims and survivors of domestic and sexual violence and abuse.\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action provides workforce training and development to people with significant barriers to employment.\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action formerly facilitated visits between non-custodial parents and their children.\n\nA Community Coordinating Council helps coordinate efforts to aid the poor with Northeast Kingdom Community Action, the Northeast Kingdom Mental Health, Northeast Kingdom Mental Health, Parent Child Centers, Youth Services, The Youth Wellness Center, Northern Counties Health Care, Umbrella, Northeastern Vermont Regional Hospital, Adult Basic Education, Area Agency on Aging and other social agencies.\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action increases public awareness of the concerns of the homeless.\n\nTwo radio stations, WMOO and WIKE, hold a three-day, 24-hour, on-air fundraiser to benefit Northeast Kingdom Community Action.\n\nIn 2008, Northeast Kingdom Community Action tried to convert a building to a transitional shelter for parolees in Newport.\n\nIn the winter of 2003–2014, Northeast Kingdom Community Action provided fuel assistance to 461 applicants, and denied 206 because they did not meet income criteria.\n\nThe organization was originally named Orleans County Council of Social Agencies (OCCSA), founded as a Community Action Program in 1965 as part of the War on Poverty. It was headquartered at the Old Customs building on Main Street in Newport.\n\nOCCSA founded a spectrum of agencies which still exist: Rural Community Transportation, Northern Communities Investment Corporation, and Gillman Housing, among others.\n\nThe original executive director of OCCSA had political difficulties with the then-governor of Vermont, Richard Snelling, who had been born out-of-state, in Pennsylvania. When talking to a newspaper reporter, OCCSA's executive director called the governor a \"porky \". OCCSA was subsequently dismantled and the director moved to a western state.\n\nNortheast Kingdom Community Action was established in 1980 as a successor to OCCSA.\n\nWhen NEKCA attempted to rezone a St. Johnsbury building for transitional housing for parolees, neighbors objected, as did the local newspaper. Attempting to reverse the rezoning, 13 litigants took Northeast Kingdom Community Action to Environmental Court in 2007. The litigants' petition was denied in 2009.\n\nWhen they discovered that Newport police were recording conversations between Northeast Kingdom Community Action's victim advocates and victims, four advocates resigned, two dismissed, for going public with the information.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "16551085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16551085", "title": "Nuisance abatement", "text": "Nuisance abatement\n\nNuisance abatement is a growing area within policing and code enforcement. The term refers to using building codes, fire codes, zoning, etc. in order to improve the quality of life and resolve life safety issues within neighborhoods. Nuisance abatement programs are most often a component of problem oriented or community policing programs. In most Canadian jurisdictions, bylaw enforcement officers handle nuisance abatement.\n\nIn England and Wales, \"abatement of nuisance\" is a legal self-help procedure whereby any victim of a private nuisance may take steps (without seeking the court's approval) to deal with the problem. \n\nNuisance Abatement programs exists in a number of communities and are organized at the city, county and state levels.\n\nThe City of Albuquerque features a task force of members drawn from various city agencies known as the Safe City Strike Force. The Albuquerque program's goals include enforcement of City codes and ordinances; such as housing code enforcement, dogs, graffiti vandalism prosecution, vehicle forfeiture proceedings, and Metropolitan Court Arraignment Program \n\nThe State of Connecticut features a specialized unit in the Asset Forfeiture Bureau of the Office of the Chief State's Attorney. Their Nuisance Abatement program combines civil remedies and innovative problem solving with traditional policing and criminal prosecution to address the quality of life in communities throughout Connecticut. In Norwalk, Connecticut the law was utilized to close four venues several years earlier as it was adopted at the local level. Presently, additional cities do not enforce this standard and there has not been any evidence that criminal acts did not transform themselves to bypass this law enforcement method.\n\nThe city best known for being the first to implement the Wheel clamp expanded its towing ventures with the \"Public Nuisance Abatement Ordinance.\" This Ordinance authorizes police officers to confiscate physical property and generated $2.4 million in 2016. The vast majority of \"offenders\" were found innocent.\n\nThe Gainesville, Florida program centers around an administrative board that can impose fines and other non-criminal penalties on property owners for the activities that occur on their property which constitute a public nuisance. Violations of the Nuisance Abatement Ordinance are not criminal, and will not result in arrests, but are an addition to the criminal actions that will be taken.\n\nAurora Avenue (U.S. Route 99) was once a bustling commercial thoroughfare and the main route into Seattle until I-5 bypassed this main street in 1968, sending the neighbourhood into decline and driving prices at a strip of twenty motels in one section of town to the point where they would become a temptingly-inexpensive base of operations for drug dealers and street prostitution, much to the dismay of local residents, businesses and neighbourhood-watch volunteers.\n\nLike other municipalities, Seattle initially adopted a nuisance abatement strategy of attempting to shut down the most problematic motels under pretexts such as public health and fire safety violations or using taxation laws. In 2009, the city went further by adopting a \"Chronic Nuisance Properties\" ordinance penalising owners of businesses whose clientele had brought crime into a neighbourhood (as measured by the number of calls for service to police per 90-day or one-year period for an establishment) or allowing the city to revoke business licences and shut down a business entirely. There was no requirement that the owner actually be implicated in any alleged crimes; failure to keep criminal elements out of a tenement house, motel or other business constituted a nuisance for which the owner would be civically liable.\n\nOf one locally-notorious group of five motels under common management, Seattle (Black Angus) Motor Inn was on leased land, after some success in using health code violations to shut it down temporarily it closed permanently after the owner of the land (not the management of the business) caved to pressure from City Hall; the Wallingford Inn was sold; the Isabella Motel and Italia Motel were closed as part of an out-of-court settlement of 152 criminal charges brought by the city for tax violations; the Fremont (Thunderbird) Inn was sold after foreclosure and ultimately demolished.\n\nOther unrelated properties with many calls for police, including a residential tenement and a motel in the same area, had also been targeted using Seattle's \"Chronic Nuisance Properties\" ordinance but fared slightly better; by tightening security on-site and working with police to evict troublemakers, the owners were able to bring the number of calls for service down significantly.\n\nIn Canada, the Edmonton Police Service in the province of Alberta implemented the now defunct Derelict Housing Unit. This unit consisted of one uniformed constable who was tasked with identifying relevant agencies to deal with problem addresses, where policing powers were not best suited to dealing with the issues present. Working on a referral basis, the police member would assess a problem address and contact the organization with the strongest legislation with which to deal with the concern. Police were responsible for providing a safe work environment, such as a health inspector assessing a known drug house, and ensuring that community stakeholders were apprised of any actions taken based on complaints made to the respective agencies. It was an extremely successful program that eventually met its demise due to budgetary restrictions and mismanagement at higher levels of administration.\n\nIn San Francisco, multiple departments work together to ensure safe neighborhoods through the use of nuisance abatement and other similar codes. The Department of Building Inspection is responsible for inspecting and citing violations of the building code, and their decisions are enforced by the City Attorney of San Francisco. California, in specific, has passed protective laws to help tenants and others damaged by these nuisances to be justly compensated. For instance, California mandates a strong Implied Warranty of Habitability, which sets requirements which they deem appropriate. Also there are laws like Civil Code 1942.4 which says no landlord can collect rent once a city agency has requested nuisance abatement. The Department of Health Inspection also has a way to report and inspect possible codes violations and order the removal of the problem. An additional city agency who responses to such nuisances is the Planning Department, who can have a city planner inspect the nuisance and see if it violates and city planning codes.\n\nLos Angeles' nuisance abatement program is Citywide Nuisance Abatement Program (CNAP). CNAP spearheads a number of specialized programs, including Taking Out Urban Gang Headquarters (TOUGH), Violence and Crime Activated Tenant Eviction (VACATE), Problem Properties Resolution Team (PPRT), and The Abandoned Building Task Force (ABTF).\n\nThe concept of Nuisance abatement received national recognition following the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service ceremony, in which both recipients — ProPublica and New York Daily News — were awarded \"for uncovering, primarily through the work of reporter Sarah Ryley, widespread abuse of eviction rules by the police to oust hundreds of people, most of them poor minorities.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5315086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5315086", "title": "Open-Realty", "text": "Open-Realty\n\nOpen-Realty is a commercial web-based real estate listing management application created in 2002. It is designed to be easy to set up and use. The project was written in the PHP programming language.\n\nUntil version 2.5.8 the application was under BSD license with two extra clause.\n\nWith version 3.0.0, which was released on June 14, 2010, the application moved to a commercial license and is partially encoded.\n\nUntil September 1, 2011 the community support forums were the main source of support to do with Open-Realty. Since that date support has switched to a new community support portal where most support is offered by company staff rather than other users.\n\nExtensions(addons and templates) can be used to extend Open-Realty adding additional features or a different design, there are three 'official addons' created by Transparent Technologies and they are IDXManager which allows website owners to import properties from a Multiple Listing Service (MLS) IDX FTP repository; Transparent RETS which operates almost identically to IDX Manager but imports images to the local website as well; finally there is TransparentMaps which uses the Google Maps API to embed maps into an Open-Realty website.\n\nThere are also many third party addons and templates some of which are free and others are paid for.\n\nAs of version 3.3, Open-Realty now requires the server to be running PHP 5.6 to 7.0. Since version 3.0 the ionCube Loader v5.1.1+ for PHP 5.6 or v6.1+ for PHP 7.0 has been required to run the encoded script.\n\n"}
{"id": "25783200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25783200", "title": "Operation Gandhi", "text": "Operation Gandhi\n\nOperation Gandhi was a pacifist group in Britain that carried out the country’s first nonviolent direct action protests in 1952.\n\nIn 1949 the pacifist Peace Pledge Union (PPU) responded to its relative inertia and to calls for more action by holding a conference on 5 November, which led to the establishment of seven “Commissions” to explore the best ways of moving forward. One of these was the Nonviolence Commission. Members of the commission took it upon themselves to explore the question of civil disobedience. Subsequently, at the beginning of 1952, many members of the commission dissatisfied with a lack of action formed a ginger group, not formally affiliated to the PPU, initially known as Operation Gandhi, and then as the Nonviolent Resistance Group.\n\nThe PPU had been interested in the teachings of Gandhi and the possibility of translating them into actions in the United Kingdom. Between 1936, when \"Peace News\" was founded, and 1957, it had almost 350 articles on related topics. However, within the PPU there was significant opposition to the concept of civil disobedience.\n\nAt the end of 1951 Hugh Brock, who subsequently became editor of \"Peace News\", proposed the formation of Operation Gandhi, for which he had already drawn up a plan of action. Its activities began with a sit-down outside the War Office on 11 January 1952. Eleven protesters squatted in front of the War Office, having first notified the police. Following principles of nonviolence, the protesters did not resist arrest, and in court pleaded guilty to charges of obstructing the police. \n\nThere were other protests at Aldermaston, Mildenhall, Porton Down and the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Harwell. The protest march to Aldermaston in 1952 involved just 35 people and paved the way for the much larger Aldermaston Marches begun by the Direct Action Committee against nuclear war in 1958 and continued by CND. Indeed, Operation Gandhi can be said to have paved the way for all subsequent nonviolent direct action in the UK, including protests against nuclear weapons by the Direct Action Committee, by the Committee of 100 and by others.\n\nOperation Gandhi did not last long. It changed its name to the Nonviolent Resistance Group, and by 1954 had been re-absorbed into the PPU's Nonviolence Commission.\n"}
{"id": "58071255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58071255", "title": "Patriotic Accord", "text": "Patriotic Accord\n\nThe Patriotic Accord was an electoral pact between Hugo Banzer's Nationalist Democratic Action and the Revolutionary Left Movement between 1993 and 1997. In the 1993 Bolivian general election the alliance got 21.1%.\n"}
{"id": "28117500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28117500", "title": "Perpetual Accord", "text": "Perpetual Accord\n\nThe Perpetual Accord is a peace treaty and alliance of the Acht Orte of the Old Swiss Confederacy and Duke Sigismund of Austria. King Louis XI of France was elected as a mediator between both parties. The negotiations took place in Constance. The first version was finalized on 30 March 1474, but had to wait until early 1475 for the ratification of the final version.\n"}
{"id": "716288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716288", "title": "Premises", "text": "Premises\n\nPremises are land and buildings together considered as a property. This usage arose from property owners finding the word in their title deeds, where it originally correctly meant \"the aforementioned; what this document is about\", from Latin \"prae-missus\" = \"placed before\".\n\nIn this sense, the word is always used in the plural, but singular in construction. Note that a single house or a single other piece of property is \"premises\", not a \"premise\", although the word \"premises\" is plural in form; e.g. \"The equipment is on the customer's premises\", never \"The equipment is on the customer's premise\".\n\nSee Land law\n\nSee Duty of care#Land\n\nSee Conveyancing\n\nPremises registration is \"a way to locate where livestock or dead animals are kept or congregated.\" In the United States, it is voluntary according to the USDA, but may be mandatory for each state.\n\nAs of January 13, 2009 the USDA has entered into the federal register a document which provides for the expansion of implementation of a mandatory national animal identification system to be effective January 2010. Citizens may go here \nto enter their comments and concerns about the expected effects of such limitations imposed by this action.\n\n"}
{"id": "56171232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56171232", "title": "Progressive Area", "text": "Progressive Area\n\nProgressive Area (, AP) is a democratic-socialist political party in Italy. \n\nAP is mainly composed of former members of Progressive Camp (CP), a tentative party founded and briefly led by Giuliano Pisapia, who finally decided not to run and declared CP's experience over. AP's leading members include Michele Ragosta, Adriano Zaccagnini and Luigi Lacquaniti, all three former members of Left Ecology Freedom (of which Pisapia was an independent) and transitated through the Democratic Party and Democratic and Progressive Movement.\n\nIn the run-up of the 2018 general election, AP was originally headed into the Together electoral list within the centre-left coalition, along with the Italian Socialist Party, the Federation of the Greens and Civic Area. However, after tensions with Together leaders, in January 2018 it was announced that AP had signed an agreement with the More Europe electoral list, already composed of the Italian Radicals, Forza Europa and the Democratic Centre, also with the centre-left.\n"}
{"id": "1855125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855125", "title": "Progressive Integration Party", "text": "Progressive Integration Party\n\nThe Progressive Integration Party (\"Vooruitstrevende Integratie Partij\") is a political party in the Netherlands without parliamentary representation. It seeks its voters within the ethnic minorities in the country.\n"}
{"id": "7455316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7455316", "title": "Projects for Assistance in Transition from Homelessness", "text": "Projects for Assistance in Transition from Homelessness\n\nCreated under the McKinney-Vento Act, The PATH (Projects for Assistance in Transition from Homelessness) Program, is a formula grant program that funds the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and four U.S. Territories to support service delivery to individuals with serious mental illnesses, as well as individuals with co-occurring substance use disorders, who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) provides technical assistance to states and local providers funded by the PATH program. This includes on-site consultation, collection of annual reporting data, the development of an annual report to Congress, holding bi-annual meetings of PATH contacts, and identifying and disseminating best practices from the program.\n\nThe PATH Consumer Involvement Workgroup's guiding vision was to encourage PATH programs to employ mental health consumers with homelessness experience as direct care staff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37801828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37801828", "title": "Public bank", "text": "Public bank\n\nA public bank is a bank, a financial institution, in which a state, municipality, or public actors are the owners. It is an enterprise under government control. Prominent among current public banking models are the Bank of North Dakota, the German public bank system, and many nations’ postal bank systems.\n\nPublic or 'state-owned' banks proliferated globally in the late 19th and early 20th centuries as vital agents of industrialisation in capitalist and socialist countries alike; as late as 2012, state banks still owned and controlled up to 25 per cent of total global banking assets.\n\nProponents of public banking argue that policymakers can create public-sector banks to reduce the costs of government services and infrastructure; protect and aid local banks; offer banking services to people and entities underserved by private-sector banking; and promote particular kinds of economic development reflecting polities’ shared notions of social good. The 2015 Addis Ababa Financing for Development Action Agenda noted that public banks should have an important role in achieving the new Sustainable Development Goals. Increasingly, major international financial institutions are recognising the positive and catalytic role public banks can serve in the coming low carbon climate resilient transition. Further, international NGOs and critical scholars argue that public banks can play a significant role in financing a just and equitable energy transition.\n\nAccording to the Public Banking Institute, \"[a] Public Bank is a chartered depository bank in which public funds are deposited. A Public Bank is owned by a government unit — a state, county, city, or tribe — and mandated to serve a public mission that reflects the values and needs of the public that it represents.\" According to Ellen Brown, public ownership of a bank is distinct from socialism in that the latter is government ownership of the means of production, whereas public banking involves government oversight of the credit and debit system that facilitates economic exchange, including that of free markets.\n\nPublic banks are owned and operated by governments, while credit unions are private entities collectively owned by their members. In the United States, federal law forbids credit unions from making commercial loans that exceed 12.25% of their total assets. This effectively prevents credit unions from operating as mainly credit-issuing institutions.\n\nPublic banks come in a variety of models. A public bank might be capitalized through an initial investment by the city or state, as well as through tax and fee revenue. A public bank, like a private bank, can take tax revenues and other government income as deposits, create money in the form of bank credit, and lend at very low interest rates. Where private banks are committed by their business model to take advantage of low interest rates by charging higher rates to borrowers, a public bank has no shareholders to pay, and so can pass the low rates onto borrowers such as public agencies, local businesses, residents, and students.\n\nPublic banks can also partner with (underwriting or guaranteeing the loans of) local banks to fund projects that might otherwise go unfunded. Such partnering with local banks leads practitioners of public banking to say, like Bank of North Dakota President Eric Hardmeyer, that public banks are partners, rather than competitors, with local private financial institutions.\n\nPublic savings banks, such as postal banks, typically offer individual savings accounts, savings bonds, remittances and other services. Around three out of four postal systems worldwide offer such banking services, and such a system existed in the United States from 1911 to 1967.\n\nIn the ancient world, prior to the emergence of price-adjusting markets, temples provided and oversaw weights and measures critical to exchange. The expanded legal regime of Mesopotamia included price administration and fixed interest rates set by public custom, such as one shekel per \"mina\", a rate which stayed stable for a thousand years.\n\nMost prominent in the 14th century, \"Mons Pietatis\" (Mount of Piety) were charitable institutions of credit that lent money at low- or no-interest, upon the security of objects left in pawn, with the stated aim of protecting clients from usury. Profits were used to pay employees and extend the scope of their charitable work. The institutions took the form of either autonomous entities or municipal corporations. Periodically, net profits from interest were applied to the entities’ capital reserves, with surplus profit being used to lower interest rates in the subsequent cycle.\n\nMany kinds of church banks served as early public banks. In their essay on the history of credit, Elise Dermineur and Yane Svetiev say that church structures “(abbeys, convents, \"Mons pietatis\") could extend credit and recorded the transactions in their own account books. Parish wards also extended credit.”\n\nEarly Italian public banks included the Taula de Canvi (established 1401), designed to draw deposits away from private banks and finance short-term debt; the first and second Banco di San Giorgio (1408 and 1530), with mission statements reflecting goals of extinguishing public debt and steering banking practices to the public good; the Banco della Piazza di Rialto, Venice (1587) to pay public debts; and the Banch de la Ciutat (1609), allowing the limited use of inferior coinage by the general public.\n\nIn the rest of Europe, the Bank of Amsterdam (1609) set out to simplify and standardize coins and other exchange and was soon joined by other Dutch exchange banks, many of which survived well into the 19th Century. In Germany and Switzerland, many municipalities formed banks between the fifteenth and seventeenth centuries. The charter of the Basel city council stated that “our municipal bank is being founded to benefit the public good.” The Bank of Hamburg (1619) was a public bank based on the Amsterdam model but with an expanded credit role and a grain store for the city. \n\nCurrency-issuing public banks later appeared in Sweden, England, France, Vienna, and Prussia. \n\nAccording to OECD studies, the German public banking system controls 40% of total banking assets in Germany. According to the Association of German Public Banks (VOB), the total assets of public banks in Germany at the end of 2016 was 2,900 billion euros, and German public banks have 75,000 employees.\n\nThe \"Landesbanken\" in Germany are a group of state-owned banks primarily engaging in wholesale banking. \"Sparkassen\" are public savings banks operated with a mandate of public service and local development. Anyone can open a personal account in a \"Sparkassen\" bank, and they provide loans for small businesses and home buyers.\n\nSparkasse executive vice president Wolfram Morales has pointed out that public banks played a major role in Germany’s transition from centralized fossil fuel energy to diverse renewables, and that Germany’s Sparkassen banks have been significant contributors to the renewables transition.\n\nFinance writer Frances Coppola argues that Germany's Landesbanken are in various stages of \"zombification,\" inefficient and poorly profitable, following the global economic crisis of 2008. Coppola also argues that the Sparkassen banks are suffering from low returns to savers, low profits, and increased competition from online lenders. Writing for the Public Policy Institute for Wales, Craig Johnson similarly argues that Sparkassen banks have had problems producing profits because of its inability to give robust returns to savers. However, Ellen Brown writes that the Landesbanken and Sparkassen have supplied local economies in Germany with liquidity when private banks stopped lending and instead engaged in risky behaviors, helping cause the 2008 global economic downturn.\n\nThe Commonwealth Bank of Australia was established by the Commonwealth Bank Act and opened in 1911. Prior to privatization (the Bank became fully privatized in 1996), the Bank could issue the credit of Australia to citizens in the form of loans.\n\nEstablished as a private bank in 1934, the Bank of Canada was nationalized in 1938 with a mandate to lend to the federal government and the provinces. This lending made public debt interest-free. In the Second World War, the Bank of Canada financed a large war effort, helping create the world's third largest navy. Following the war, the Bank subsidized farmland and education for veterans, funded infrastructure, airports, and technology, and helped the government establish pensions and Medicare. Beginning in the 1960s, the Bank of Canada began restricting the nation’s monetary supply to curb inflation, and by 1974 the Bank was no longer lending to the government. \n\nIn the 17th and 18th Centuries, governing colonial assemblies in the thirteen colonies began taking on the lending functions of banks to generate revenue and finance farming and development. The governments would establish offices called “land banks,” and would issue and lend paper currency. The loans would return on a regular payment schedule to prevent inflation and ensure adherence with English sterling. The low taxes resulting from these public finance mechanisms were partly responsible for the rapid economic expansion of the colonies. The Bank of Pennsylvania, chartered in 1793, allowed the state to use its dividends to finance government expenses without any direct taxes for the next 40 years.\n\nIn the early part of 19th Century America, before the Second Bank of the United States was closed, stated scrambled to establish fully public or partially-public banks. There was considerable variation on how much public and how much private was in their design. In nearly all cases, state legislatures created central banks to provide money and regulate other banks in their states. By 1831, over 400 banks had been chartered through acts of specific legislation in the 24 existing states. In many instances, legislatures made policy decisions about the types of loans and credits these banks were to provide. Some of these state-run institutions duplicated the success of colonial assembly land banks in meeting government expenses. For example, the Georgia Central Bank covered all the state's expenses from 1828 to 1842.\n\nConcerning the various state-owned or state-involved banks in the United States during the first half of the 19th century, Susan Hoffmann writes:\n\nAt least two state banks were entirely publicly owned: the Vermont State Bank, and the Bank of Kentucky (which was later replaced by the equally public Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky). These banks, like the Bank of North Dakota later, were owned entirely by the state, governed by legislatively-appointed officials, and banked on the credit of the state.\n\nThe Bank of North Dakota (BND) is a state-owned and state-run financial institution, based in Bismarck, North Dakota. Under state law, the bank is the State of North Dakota doing business as the Bank of North Dakota. The state and its agencies are required to place their funds in the bank.\n\nThe Bank of North Dakota was established by revolutionary populists in the Non-Partisan League, or NPL, whose platform was “public ownership of economic infrastructure.” Limited access to credit exacerbated farmers’ crises in the latter years of the 19th century and was instrumental to agrarian populist revolt. In response to price manipulation and market domination from Minneapolis and Chicago, the NPL advocated state control of mills, grain elevators, banks and other farm-related industries.\n\nInitially, the Bank of North Dakota struggled for legitimacy. Minnesota and east coast banks made considerable efforts to undermine the BND. In 1931 and 1932, delinquencies on the bank’s debts were sixty six percent of the total due.\n\nToday, the BND plays an integral role in North Dakota’s economic development. Its mission is to “promote agriculture, commerce, and industry” and “be helpful to and assist in the development of… financial institutions… within the State.” Half of its loan portfolio is business and agricultural loans originated by community banks, with partial funding by BND. This allows BND to expand the lending capacity of North Dakota's community banking industry and reduces the role of out-of-state banks in North Dakota's financial system. BND also funds disaster and farm relief, public infrastructure, schools, and student loans. Interest payments are annually paid back to the state in the form of dividend payments.\n\nIn 2017, the Bank of North Dakota recorded record profits for the fourteenth year in a row.\n\nYolanda K. Kodrzycki and Tal Elmatad of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston’s New England Public Policy Center argued in a report in 2011 that North Dakota has not significantly benefited from its state-owned bank; that in any case the BND model is inapplicable to Massachusetts, which has a much larger population and more complex lending needs. They argue that the costs of starting up a state-owned bank “could be significant,” requiring “funds roughly equal to one-fifth of the state’s general obligation debt.” However, Kodrzycki and Elmatad also conclude that certain market failures might call for “establishing a public bank that differs from the one in North Dakota . . . “ \n\nBetween 1932 and 1957, a government corporation in the United States called the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC) provided financial support to state and local governments and made loans to banks, railroads, mortgage associations, and other businesses. RFC loans were “self-liquidating,” meaning that they drew revenue from the income streams created by the loans, such as the tolls from RFC-financed bridges and tunnels. RFC-financed projects included the San Francisco Bay Bridge, the California Aqueduct, bridges over the Mississippi River, and the Pennsylvania Turnpike.\n\nBetween the Great Depression and the present time, many states attempted to create public banks through referenda or legislation. These attempts were often opposed by state chambers of commerce and other private financial interests, such as in the 1970s when the New York State Assembly filed legislation to establish a state-owned bank but was opposed by the New York Chamber of Commerce and the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 2016 and 2017, several candidates nationwide ran on public banking platforms, with some, like New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy, achieving victory. A renewed interest in municipal public banks has driven movements in Los Angeles, Oakland, Seattle, Santa Fe, San Francisco, and other cities. Meanwhile, states’ moves towards cannabis legalization, because of the complications in cannabis-related banking deposits and financial transactions, has led to calls for state- and city-owned banks to serve cannabis businesses, culminating in the California State Senate’s passage of a bill in 2018 to create such banks.\n\nInterest, or payment from a borrower or deposit-taking institution to a lender or depositor, increases the overall costs of goods and services. Critics of high interest payments say that 35% to 40% of the money paid for goods and services actually goes to interest payments to finance the chains of supply, production, and distribution necessary for delivery of products. Governments pay similarly high rates of interest for capital projects such as infrastructure and schools. Thus, public banks, which do not need to charge high interest rates the way private banks must do in the service of shareholders, would arguably lower the cost of interest on public projects, and on those private endeavors a public bank was directed to support.\n\nBanks are often held to be mere financial intermediaries, taking deposits and lending money from those deposits. Others disagree with this view and point out that banks create money through lending, and that banks lend far more than their deposit base. For example, Robert C. Hockett of Cornell Law School argues that the belief that banks are mainly intermediaries between savers and borrowers is false. Rather, the capacity to lend at a rate not strictly tied to a bank's deposits is, for Hockett, a reason for the function of banking to be a public utility instead of a strictly private enterprise.\n\nBanks hold less in reserve than their deposit liabilities, but those deposit liabilities are also functionally money. Thus, the very practice of fractional reserve banking grows the money supply beyond banks’ deposit bases. Nations’ central banks attempt to regulate that growth through interest rates, reserve requirements, and capital adequacy requirements, although most advanced economies today have deprioritized reserve requirements.\n\nAcceptance of the view that banks create money is widespread. Authors writing on behalf of the Bank of England have explained that, rather than banks receiving and then loaning deposits specifically, banks loan money, creating matching deposits in borrowers’ bank accounts, thus creating “new money.” Western Michigan University political scientist Susan Hoffmann, author of \"Politics and Banking\", opens that book by declaring that Congress has historically struggled with the reality that banks create money and that money itself arises “in an institutionalized decision process.” This became apparent to the directors of the Bank of Amsterdam in the 17th century, when they realized that loaning out deposits created money for borrowers while the same amount still sat in the accounts of the original depositors.\n\nProfessor Richard Werner of the University of Southampton has utilized empirical research to conclude in favor of the credit creation theory, and that “banks can individually create money out of nothing.” Two former members of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Chari and Phelan, refer to the process of fractional reserve banking as “private money creation.”\n\nSome scholars and authors disagree with the argument that banks create money by lending it. Austrian School economists, for example, emphasize that only one party at a time can have a legitimate claim on the same unit of deposit. Those who deny that banks create money may argue that the process of lending gives the outsider the false appearance of money creation due to the recording of the same asset twice, once as a deposit entry and once as an asset account entry. Rather, the two figures are transactional representations of the same unit of money.\n\nOther scholars and authors qualify their belief that banks create money by following up with an account of what happens to that money when loans are repaid. Thus, Mcleay, et al point out: “Just as taking out a new loan creates money, the repayment of bank loans destroys money.”\n\nDavid Korten and others from the New Economy Working Group argue that the power to create and allocate money ought to be decentralized and democratized by making such power reside in community banks.\n\nSvetlana Andrianova, Pancios Demetriades, and Anja Shortland use data from several countries for 1995-2007 and conclude that a high degree of government ownership of banks facilitates faster growth than little government ownership.\n\nMark A. Calabria of the Cato Institute cites the corruption of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as evidence of public sector finance’s mismanagement. Calabria also argues that the Bank of North Dakota’s success is exaggerated and that public-sector banking decreases economic growth. He concludes, “When the government owns the banks, lending decisions become increasingly driven by politics rather than economics.” The Public Banking Institute has argued that Calabria's conclusions are based on research that doesn't incorporate the Bank of North Dakota; that Calabria doesn't compare the performance and corruption histories of public banks to private banks, and that he uses an insufficient number of examples to reach his conclusions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13121720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13121720", "title": "Segi (organization)", "text": "Segi (organization)\n\nSegi is a Basque pro-independence and revolutionary left-wing organization. It forms part of the Basque National Liberation Movement and is aligned with Langile Abertzaleen Batzordeak and Batasuna.\n\nSegi is proscribed as a terrorist organisation (as a member of ETA) by both the Spanish and French authorities as well as the European Union as a whole.\nIn its decision, on 27 February 2007, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Justice (ECJ) dismissed the appeal of the illegal Basque organisation \"Gestoras Pro Amnistia\" and Segi members against their dismissal by the European Council with claims for damages suffered as a result of inclusion in the \"terrorist list\". The UK intervened with Spain – it was the only other EU state to do so, as a symbol of the support of the rest of the European Council.\n\nIn 2002 Segi was classed as a \"terrorist\" organization by the Spanish National Court magistrate Judge Baltasar Garzón, thus banning it as a component of ETA.\n\nGarzón had previously banned the two other Basque youth organizations that preceded Segi: Jarrai and Haika.\n\nSpanish and other European courts have banned a number of ETA-related organizations such as newspapers – \"Egin\" (1998), Egunkaria (2003); youth organisations – Jarrai (1999), Haika (2001), Segi (2002); prisoner associations – Askatasuna (2002) and Gestoras Pro-Amnistia (2003) and political parties such as Herri Batasuna (1997) and its successor Batasuna (2003). All those decisions have been based on the proved direct coordination of such organisations with ETA (i.e. the organisations have been declared \"members of a terrorist group\" and of \"cooperation with terrorist groups\" by helping in the recruitment of new members and supporting ETA's finances).\n\nAccording to \"An Phoblacht\" the case descended into a farce when another judge in the Spanish National Court considered that Garzón’s arguments \"were not valid\" and released all the detainees. However another report suggests that the Supreme Court ruled they were a terrorist organization, but had not been placed on the country's terrorist list before the court's January 19 ruling.\n\nÓgra Shinn Féin (the youth wing of political party Sinn Féin), which maintains fraternal relations with Segi, has called for the \"immediate release of our comrades in Euskal Herria\". It has begun an online petition to demand the reversal of the decision to declare Segi to be an illegal and terrorist organization. The petition claims that the Spanish Government has \"decided to brand a completely legitimate political group as terrorists in an attempt to subvert the ever present Basque national liberation struggle\". It is also campaigning for the release of the National Executive of Segi, who were arrested on a protest and were sentenced to 6 years imprisonment. Ógra Shinn Féin has passed a motion in support of Segi at a recent congress, declaring their support.\n"}
{"id": "25825602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25825602", "title": "Tsering Dolma Gyaltong", "text": "Tsering Dolma Gyaltong\n\nTsering Dolma Gyaltong is a Tibetan spiritual leader who lives in exile in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Tsering has been active in being an Founding Member of the Tibetan Women's Association and re-establishing it again in 1984.\n\nShe has been active in her open criticism of China's treatment of Tibetans..\n\nTsering is a member of the International Council of 13 Indigenous Grandmothers - a group of spiritual elders, medicine women and wisdom keepers.\n\nDue to the Invasion of Tibet by the Chinese and the ongoing treatment of the Tibetans. On the 17th of March 1959, the day that the Dalai Lama began his escape from the Norbulingka Palace, The Tibetan Women’s Association, of which Tsering was a Founding Member carried out a street demonstration with 500 of its members. Due to this, Tsering is said to have been 'instrumental' in creating the diversion to get Dalai Lama out of Tibet in 1959. Tsering's husband had a role in lobbying for support for Tibet from other governments. Because of this, Tsering and her family had to leave Chinese occupied Tibet. Tsering followed the Dalai Lama into exile in India.\n\nTsering moved with her family to Canada in 1972. She now lives in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn 1984, Tsering came back to India to reinstate the central Tibetan Women's Association. Tsering took on many roles on the Executive Committee - spanning 10 years; Vice President from 1985–1988, Special Assistant from 1988–1991, Vice President from June–October in 1992 and President from 1993-1994.\n\nTsering and two other Canadian Tibetan Refugees were joined by Tibetan delegates from Australia, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States in order to attend the Fourth World Conference on Women which, in 1985, was held in Beijing, China. Here, Tsering and her fellow delegates criticised China's treatment of Tibetans, especially women.\n\nDue to the heavy-handedness of Chinese security, and Tsering's outspokenness and the publicity actions of other members of the Tibetan Women's Delegation, the event was seen as a public relations disaster for China.\n\nAnother success was that they were able to meet with hundreds of other international female delegates. They were able to network and get their message heard internationally.\n\nIn 2004, Tsering was approached by The Center for Sacred Studies to serve on the International Council of 13 Indigenous Grandmothers.\n\nThe Council has been active in protecting indigenous rights and medicines, and promoting indigenous wisdom traditions. In 2006, Tsering Dolma Gyaltong hosted a visit by the Grandmothers to Dharamshala, where they presented a sacred condor feather to the Dalai Lama, held prayers for world peace, and \"emphasised on protection of the diverse cultural heritage in the form of different languages, medicine and ceremonies.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548214", "title": "Vested interest (communication theory)", "text": "Vested interest (communication theory)\n\nVested interest (Crano, 1983; Crano & Prislin, 1995; Sivacek & Crano, 1982) is a communication theory that seeks to explain how certain hedonically relevant (Miller & Averbeck, 2013) attitudinal dimensions can influence and consistently predict behavior based on the degree of subjective investment an individual has in a particular attitude object. As defined by William Crano, \"vested interest\" refers to the degree to which an attitude object is deemed hedonically relevant by the attitude holder. According to Crano, \"an attitude object that has important perceived personal consequences for the individual will be perceived as highly vested. Highly vested attitudes will be functionally related to behavior\" (Crano, 1983). Simply put, when people have more at stake with the result of an object (like a law or policy) that will greatly affect them, they will behave in a way that will directly support or defy the object for the sake of their own self-interest.\n\nFor example, a 30-year-old learns that the legal driving age in his state is being raised from 16 to 17. While he may not agree with this proposed change, he is not affected as much as a 15-year-old would be and is unlikely to protest the change. A 15-year-old, however, has much to lose (waiting another year to get a driver license) and is more likely to vehemently oppose the new proposed law. To gather support for his position, a course of action the 15-year-old might take would be to tell other soon-to-be drivers about the new law, so that they collectively have a vested interest in perhaps changing the law. This example illustrates the point that highly vested attitudes concerning issues depend on the situational point of view.\n\nAnother example of vested interest can be found in a study conducted by Berndsen, Spears and van der Pligt, which involves students from a University in Amsterdam where the teaching faculty proposed the use of English to teach the curriculum instead of Dutch. Vested interest, in this case, suggests that students would be opposed to the use of English rather than Dutch simply based on the potential impact lectures conducted in English might have on their grades. \n\nA key factor to consider with vested interest is the level or type of involvement the individual has with a particular attitude object. This can be broken up into three main involvement components: Value-relevant, Impression-relevant, and Outcome-relevant. Value-relevant involvement concerns behaviors which support/reinforce values of the individual. Impression-relevant involvement relates to those behaviors which serve to create or maintain a specific image of the individual. This could, in some ways, be compared to a low-self monitor. Outcome-relevant involvement concerns those behaviors which hold direct personal consequences at a premium for the individual and as a result, corresponds most closely to vested interest.\n\nThe concept of involvement closely relates to collaboration which encompasses value, impression and desired outcome. Vested interest is essential in achieving success in collaboration where two or more individuals have the potential to gain or lose. Organizations who strive for collaborative success benefit from understanding vested interest and that of other collaborators in order to maintain a supportive level of involvement. \n\nThe way people view vested interest as distinct from ego involvement, is a construct that has been the topic of social psychological research for many years. In a study conducted by John Sivacek and William D. Crano, they prove that the aforementioned statement of ego involvement and vested interest are indeed separate. Sivacek and Crano state, \"It was possible to have circumstances that an individual would perceive as involving but that it would not arouse his or her vested interest.\" Ego-involvement’s main focus points are on individual’s psychological attitudes that are experienced as being a part of “me”. The more emotionally connected people are to an idea, concept, or value, minor differences in beliefs can be viewed as significantly large and perhaps make harsh judgments or have stronger reactions. Conversely, a person with less emotional connectivity (low ego-involvement) will have more latitude in their reactions. It is important to note that while highly vested attitudes can be experienced as ego involving, the opposite is not always true. An individual can be ego involved in a certain attitude that has no hedonic consequence. For example, religious or political ideals with little or no hedonic value may still be ego-involved because individuals view those types of beliefs as part of who they are.\n\nEgo-involvement, as it pertains to vested interest, is relative to Social Judgment Theory in that the concept of one’s identity is the primary focus of efforts in continued involvement. Essential to social judgment theory is the idea of ego thus actions or ideas with a varying degree of ego involvement carry a commensurate amount of vested interest to the individual as detailed by Sherif, Kelly, Rogers, Sarup, and Tittler. Sherif, et al. conducted a series of studies to develop “indicators of ego involvement” (p. 311). One of the leading questions they sought to answer was how much ego involvement (vested interest) does an induvial in a situation with no alternatives solutions have and does this ego involvement correlate to the number of options at hand. Sherif et al., suggest the question was answered by Beck and Nebergall in 1967 who stated that individuals with little to no options have corresponding vested interest indicating low ego involvement. \n\nThe factor to consider with vested interest and its application towards attitude-consistent actions is attitude importance. Attitude (or issue) importance concerns not only matters of personal consequence, but also matters of national or international interest. While both of these can fall in line with each other, vested interest and attitude importance are not the same. For example, consider the plight of an African nation that has been ravaged by an influenza epidemic. Although an individual in America may consider this objectively important, because of the low probability of personal consequence—i.e., vested interest — his resultant behavior may not be indicative of his attitude towards the epidemic. In other words, since the issue is of little hedonic relevance to the perceiver, the amount of vested interest is low, and is therefore unlikely to produce attitude-consistent actions. Geographic distance and cultural differences are also a factor in attitude importance. Tragic circumstances halfway around the world or shocking behaviors by members of a culture different from the perceiver, will most likely never result in attitude change. The physical distance or cultural difference of an occurrence directly correlates to the vested interest of the perceiver. Things too far away or customs perceived to be too strange will almost never trigger a vested interest.\n\nIndicators of vested interest can include attitude importance, as detailed by Jon Krosnick who defined this concept by stating that “central, ego-involved, and salient attitudes” often include attitudes significantly important to individual interests. In politics, for example, voters have a vested interest in candidates whose values (policy) align with their own to include attitudes toward these values. Due to the nature of politics, voters come to conclusions about one candidate over another based on perceived attitude importance (object) on these policies rather than vocal support alone placing a high value on this concept as it pertains to vested interest. \n\nAttitude object continuously makes an issue salient which correlates to outcome relevant involvement. Two differences exist between vested interest and outcome relevant involvement where attitude objects remain highly important. Initially, outcome relevant objects retain a high degree of vested interest while not appearing to be. Secondly, outcome relevant involvement suggest interest ends once the goal is achieved whereas vested interest suggests a self-perpetuated interest. \n\nThere are five key components that may diminish or enhance the effects of vested interest on attitude-behavior consistency. These are (a) stake, (b) attitudinal salience, (c) the certainty of the attitude outcome link, (d) the immediacy of attitude-implicated consequences, and (e) the self-efficacy of the individual to perform an attitudinally implicated act. Attitudes affect behavior. However, social psychologists recognize that contextual, interpsychic, and intrapsychic sources of variation can drastically affect the strength of this relation. A factor that has been shown to strongly affect attitude-behavior consistency is self-interest or vested interest. The following sections explain each of these variables in greater detail.\n\nStake refers to the perceived personal consequence of an attitude that is directly related to the intensity of vested interest and influences components that contribute to attitude-behavior consistency. In its basic form, the more that is at stake concerning a particular issue, the stronger the attitude will be. Consequently, as attitude strength increases, the consistency of attitude-based actions also increases.\n\nReferring to the concept of vested interest as it relates to attitude-behavior consistency, stake is an individual’s macro involvement in a particular situation where the consequence is salient. In a situation where stake is operationalized using certainly and immediacy, one found the likely effect of this was behavior relative to the immediate consequence, positive or negative. For instance, in a study conducted to measure the relevance stake has on vested interest, students given a health assessment showed greater enthusiasm for items inquiring about donating blood when saving a life was salient (i.e. a child’s life depends on my donation).\n\nStake may contribute to attitude-behavior consistency by inducing thoughts that support the attitude. This serves as the basis for future behavior. Stake may also strengthen the attitude-behavior relation by indirectly amplifying the awareness of stimuli associated with people's attitudes. Stake is the most powerful impression that comes from all the components of vested interest regarding attitude and behavior. Stake influences perceptions of attitude and action, but also of other action-relevant components as well. When stake is high, people also find the critical issue highly salient. Stake also affects the perception of immediacy. The greater the personal consequence of the issue, the more pressing the issue is perceived to be. Finally, stake was found to affect the perception of immediacy. The greater the personal consequence of the issue, the more pressing it was perceived to be. The phrases, \"the stakes are/were high\" or \"high stakes\", are used when issues of high salience or immediacy are raised, usually in regards to gambling or other high-risk activities involving vested interest.\n\nSalience refers to the perceiver’s awareness of the effects of an attitude upon himself. In other words, the prominence of an issue, as perceived by an individual, shapes the strength of his resulting attitude. Salient attitudes have a greater effect directly on subsequent behavior. Linking this discovery to vested interest, the research concluded that the salience effect was heightened when the attitude had important personal outcomes for someone. When the consequences of the behavior issuing from an attitude are highly salient, attitude-behavior consistency increases. If consequences are not salient, the consistency of the effects of vested interest on attitude behavior will be dramatically reduced. For instance, two people may have negative attitudes towards living near a prison. The first person lost a loved one at the hands of an inmate who escaped during a jailbreak. The second person simply does not like the eyesore the prison building creates in the area around his home. The first person's attitude towards inmates and prisons will probably be more salient than that of the second person who has not experienced a similar trauma. The first person's more salient attitude will foster the operation of vested interest, which will result in greater attitude-behavior consistency.\n\nAttitudes that have been acquired through direct experience, such as the example just given, may be more salient than those acquired through vicarious processes. This greater salience results in greater consistency in attitude behavior. The attitude of someone who is non-salient reduces vested interest and weakens attitude-behavior consistency. The most powerful impression to emerge from all the analyses is the overwhelming effect of stake, or personal consequence, on attitude and behavior. When stake is high, people assume that a person would find the critical issue highly salient. Stake does not interact with, but enhances the perception of, issue salience. This is an important effect, because salience significantly affects actions that are expected to happen.\n\nAdditionally, salience can be described as the most recent and accessible memory associated with a specific object (i.e. idea) in which an individual has developed their own unique attitude. Mortality, for instance, would become salient when faced with a situation where death was probable or the known death of a friend, relative or an experienced event which resulting in someone’s death. This death salience would then influence behavior for a short amount of time following the event.\n\nCertainty refers to perceived likelihood of personal consequences as a result of an attitude or action. Simply stated, if a certain course of action is taken, then the chances of a specific event occurring as a result of this action are evaluated by the perceiver to help shape his resultant attitudes and behaviors. Certainty can be easily applied to situations in which an individual knowingly takes a calculated risk. For instance, let's continue with our aforementioned example of people living near a prison. Although the chance of a prison escape is minimal, particularly in a maximum-security prison, it could occur and crimes against those living close by would increase. Those living further away from the prison might argue that a prison break is unlikely and that there is no real risk. Alternatively, those living close to the prison could make an equally valid argument about the dangers of living near the prison in the event of prisoners escaping. Still others might realize there to be a potential risk to their safety, but would not deem it risky enough to move elsewhere.\n\nCertainty in attitude, relative to vested interest, remains difficult to define without an understanding of two particular concepts. One is the acceptance of truth in the events or idea requiring approximation of occurrence. Two requires that certainty is not dependent on external factors which can undermine its validity. Certainty must be a concept which is pushed onto us much like truth is a certainty beyond our immediate control. \n\nIf the consequences of an attitude consistent act are uncertain, attitude-consistent action is not likely to occur, due to the fact that vested interest will be reduced. An example of this is a person who has a negative attitude towards living near a prison. If the person assumes that the link between living near a prison and being a victim of a violent crime is minimal, then health and safety promoting behaviors consistent with this negative attitude are not likely. However, if someone believes that living near the prison and being a victim of a violent crime is almost certain, that person would be unlikely to move close to the prison, assuming the person has a positive attitude toward safety or a negative attitude toward prisons and inmates.\n\nImmediacy refers to an individual’s perceived amount of time between an action and its resulting consequences. Immediacy can be considered an extension of certainty, however, these two entities are completely separate. For instance, in our prison example, people in opposition to the construction of the prison in their neighborhood may have felt that the amount of time to build the prison to and the eventual housing of prisoners was not long enough to make an informed decision. They may also feel that it is only a matter of time before something negative happened to the local citizens as a result of having a prison nearby.\n\nImmediacy refers to the apparent temporary lag between an attitudinally implicated action and its consequences. If the results of an attitude consistent action are thought to be immediate rather than delayed, the effects of stake, or vested interest, on attitude-behavior consistency will be more dramatic. In other words, if a person living near the prison in the previous example perceives the possibility of a jailbreak could occur at a much later time in life, he may act in manner that is not consistent. This is because the lack of immediate consequences reduces the perception of vested interest. Therefore, immediacy can help explain self-destructive behaviors.\n\nImmediacy, in vested interest, can also be thought of in terms of positive or negative consequence disassociated from a timeline. Vested interest such as organ donation, for example, make life and death salient which brings about the concept of immediacy to decide not necessarily to act. This is seen in a mechanism which allows people to agree to donate organs in the event of their death (i.e. drivers licenses). \n\nAnother example of immediacy is that of marketing companies who implement immediacy to encourage consumers to act or remain inactive. If what they market is something a person is highly vested in and the marketing firm has simultaneously created an immediate need, then they have done their job to get consumers to behave as they desired. This use of immediacy can be both helpful and harmful. Consumers who are not well versed in how marketing works may find themselves situations they did not wish to be in. However, consumers who are cognizant of how marketing works may find this very useful in how they do or do not expend their resources.\n\nSelf-efficacy in regards to vested interest, is the amount that an individual believes that they are capable of performing an action associated with an attitude or advocated position. In short, it is a person's sense of competence in regards to a specific task. Continuing with our prison example, residents with high vested interest that was covered by the other four components would need self-efficacy to protest the location of the new prison. In other words, the residents opposing the prison would have to believe in their abilities to effectively stop the construction. Conversely, if they lacked self-efficacy and therefore believed there was nothing they could do, then they would not act on their held attitude and vested interest will not have been attained. Variations in self-efficacy will produce differences in perceptions of the likelihood of someone working against the opposed plan. Higher levels of manipulated self-efficacy result in higher levels of expected action. However, variations in stake also influence perceptions of self-efficacy. When the stakes are high, people assume higher levels of perceived self-efficacy.\n\nAnother way the concept of self-efficacy can be described is using social cognitive theory to understand the role thought, drive and emotion have on self-efficacy (20). Cognitively, one works to quantify actions, emotion, and drive resulting in self-efficacy. However, this concept remains volatile as a change in one or more of these influences degrades self-efficacy. An example of this would be physical fitness, in that, elevated or decreased self-efficacy will cause one to accept or deny a strenuous task daily.\n\nVarious studies have been conducted to determine the effects of vested interest on attitude strengths. In one such study, Crano and Sivacek visited a university in Michigan and gathered the results of a proposed drinking-age referendum. The referendum sought to increase the legal drinking age from 18 to 21. The respondents were divided into three categories: 1. high vested interest (those who would be significantly and immediately affected as a result of the referendum), 2. low vested interest (those who would be unaffected by the law change at the time of its inception), and 3. moderate vested interest (those who fell between the first two extremes). Although 80% of the subjects were opposed to the referendum, their respective levels of vested interest clearly indicated that the strength of their attitudes significantly affected their resultant behaviors. Half of the highly vested interest groups joined the anti-referendum campaign, but only a quarter of the moderately vested interest group and an eighth of the low vested interest group joined the campaign. These results support Crano's theory of vested interest and reinforce the implications and considerations of stake, salience, certainty, immediacy, and self-efficacy discussed above. It also proves the correlation between vested interest and action, based on what level of involvement the three types of students were willing to participate in.\n\nIn a second study, Sivacek and Crano visited Michigan State University. In this experiment, subjects were informed that the university was considering the addition of a senior comprehensive examination to the graduate prerequisites. Respondents were given the following options:\nThe respondents were grouped into the same three categories as the drinking age study: high, moderate, and low vested interest. The study found that those with the highest levels of vested interest were significantly more inclined to take action based on their attitudes concerning the issue; that is, their resultant behaviors (signing the petition, joining the group, pledging multiple hours with the group) occurred much more consistently and prevalently than that of the other two vested interest groups.\n\nCrano conducted another study to prove that vested interest may affect people's belief that a majority of a population will support their attitude on an issue. This bias is known as false-consensus or assumed-consensus effect. Under the guise of a public opinion survey, Crano created high and low vested interest groups by identifying whether upper- or lower-classmen would pay a surcharge to subsidize lost funding from the government. The class who was selected to pay the surcharge had a high degree of vested interest while the student body not required to pay exhibited a lower degree of vested interest. The study then determined the participants estimate of what percentage of the student body would support their beliefs regardless of impact. Crano found that vested interest influenced assumed consensus and students believed that a majority of the university's population would support their plight even though only half would be affected.\n\nDale Miller and Rebecca Ratner conducted this study utilizing 81 male and female students at the University of Yale. In this experiment the objective was for half of the participants to show their own attitude toward smoking policies and the other half to show their thoughts on others attitudes toward smoking policies. The group with the questionnaire regarding their personal attitude about smoking were asked: 1. if they were a smoker or a nonsmoker, 2. how heavy or light a smoker they were, 3. whether they would support an increase on cigarette tax, 4. would they do away with smoking advertisements, and 5. their thoughts on smoking restrictions in public places. The second half of the participants were asked what percentage they thought smokers would support the previously mentioned policies for smokers or nonsmokers. They were not asked whether or not they smoked. The results of this study replicated Green and Gerkin's 1989 study that nonsmokers had more support for smoking restrictions than did those that smoke. These results supported the hypothesis: \"Smokers in this study were more opposed to policies that regulated smoking than were nonsmokers, but the effect of smoking status on expressed attitudes was significantly less than that predicted by respondents\". The smokers had a higher vested interest in smoking policies because they were directly affected. This study also revealed a direct correlation between vested interest and attitudes.\n\nBarbara Lehman and William Crano conducted a study regarding the persuasive effects of vested interest on attitude concerning political judgment which was published in 2001. In this study, they utilized data from 1976 national election studies concentrating on three areas (e.g. living conditions, health insurance and school integration). Their discoveries were such that self-interest was a significant contributor to values placed on all three areas of concern. Further, outside analysis of the study revealed self-interest had a direct correlation to ideologies, affiliation, and intolerance. Additionally, respondents with vested interest in any one of the three areas were more than likely to endorse candidates whose focus was in that particular area. \n\nVested interest appears to affect people's tendency to overestimate the extent to which others agree with their beliefs, a bias known variously as the false-consensus or assumed-consensus effect.If people tend to overestimate the number of others who share their beliefs, this tendency should be exacerbated in situations involving personally consequential, or highly vested, beliefs. Research supports this expectation. College student participants who thought that a new university policy would disadvantage them personally assumed that the great majority of the student body would evaluate the policy as they had, despite the fact that only half the student population would be similarly disadvantaged.\n\nEach of the five components (stake, salience, certainty, immediacy, and self-efficacy) co-exist within an individual’s realm of conscious judgment. If it creates a sufficiently strong attitude, any of these components can cause an individual to adopt or reject a certain position. All five are considered any time an individual is presented with a message that attempts to influence or persuade him to adopt a certain position or perform an action. The process of evaluating these components can range from almost instantly to taking several years. At any rate, all five are considered (consciously or subconsciously) before making a decision with implications of vested interest.\n\n"}
{"id": "51397712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51397712", "title": "Victor Crăsescu", "text": "Victor Crăsescu\n\nVictor Crăsescu (October 16, 1849–1918) was an Imperial Russian-born Romanian prose writer.\n\nBorn in Kishinev (Chișinău), capital of the Russian Empire's Bessarabia Governorate, he studied at the local theological seminary until 1872, and then at Odessa University. He later graduated from the medical faculty of Bucharest University. Crăsescu took part in anarchist and narodnik circles inspired by Mikhail Bakunin. In response, he was exiled to Switzerland in 1872, and then traveled to the United States. After returning to Russia, Crăsescu was among the founders of a narodnik circle in his native city. Arrested in 1879, he disappeared, probably during the judicial inquiry, settling in the Romanian Old Kingdom. He was among the founding members of the Prutul Society, as was Nicolae Zubcu-Codreanu. As a writer, he entered the group surrounding \"Contemporanul\" magazine, where his first published work appeared; this was the 1883 sketch \"Legea lui Lynch\". He sometimes used the pen name Ștefan Băssărăbeanu. In 1891, he became director of \"Amicul copiilor\", rising to editor in his final year there, 1895. He contributed to the socialist press (\"Drepturile omului\", \"Dezrobirea\" and \"Lumea nouă\"), as well as to \"Revista nouă\" and \"Viața literară\". His sketches and short stories appeared in four volumes during 1893 as \"Schițe și nuvele\"; the novel \"Ovreiul\" followed in 1899. Realist in style, Crăsescu's work is characteristic of the prose found in \"Contemporanul\". He died in Slănic. His son was the writer Sergiu Cujbă.\n"}
{"id": "22674948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22674948", "title": "Voter registration in the Philippines", "text": "Voter registration in the Philippines\n\nVoter registration in the Philippines is the process of filing an application to have a voter's record at the Commission on Election in a specific date and designated places set by the Comelec.\n\nAny Filipino citizen who is at least 18 years of age, a resident of the Philippines for at least one year, and in the place where he intends to vote for at least six months immediately preceding the election can file application for registration. There are two types of voter registration: Computerized Voter's List (CVL) electronic process and the Voters Registration Record (VRR) manual one.\n\nYou may register in the country if you have complied with the following requirements:\n\nTo become a registered voter, you must personally submit all the required documents. You must yield to your Election officer a fully accomplished Registration form (CEF-1A) which you can get either from the Office of Election Officer (OEO) or downloaded from the commission website. Along with your form, you must also present a photocopy of any valid ID which is inclusive of your photo, autograph and home address. None of the three qualifications must be deficient.\n\nWait until all your documents are verified by the assigned election officer. After all your documents are authenticated, you can proceed to the next step, which is the taking of your biometrics, which includes your signature, thumbmark and picture.\n\nThe last step is for you to get your acknowledgment receipt which you can present upon getting your Voter’s ID.\n\nRegistration is open every Monday to Friday (including holidays) from 8am to 5pm.\n\nTake note that it may take up to 3 years before getting your Voter's ID.\n\nAn ID which is deficient of any of the given qualifications must get either a National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) or Police clearance from their local City / Municipal Hall.\n\nIf by any chance, none of the potential ID is owned by an individual, he or she can be identified under oath by any registered voter of the same precinct or by any of his relatives who must also be an authorized voter.\n\nThere are cases when an individual transfers residence then fails to file an application for cancellation or transfer. This is an electoral case called double/multiple registration, which also called as \"flying voter\". Whether it is deliberate or not, the individual who is found guilty shall be punishable with imprisonment of one to six years.\n\n"}
{"id": "12207303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12207303", "title": "Woodhull Sexual Freedom Alliance", "text": "Woodhull Sexual Freedom Alliance\n\nThe Woodhull Freedom Foundation, also known as the Woodhull Sexual Freedom Alliance, is an American non-profit organization founded in 2003 that advocates for sexual freedom as a fundamental human right. The organization is based in Washington, D.C., United States. Named after an influential member of the American woman's suffrage movement, Victoria Woodhull, its focus includes analyzing groups and individuals that seek to perpetuate a culture of sexual repression.\n\nSexual Freedom Day, officially recognized in 2011 in Washington, DC, celebrates the birthday of Victoria Woodhull. The WSFA has held the Sexual Freedom Summit annually since 2010. Organization members have included LGBT activist Jeffrey Montgomery, former chairwoman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights Mary Frances Berry, writer Eric Rofes, lawyer Lawrence G. Walters, and activist Dan Massey.\n\nIn the furtherance of activities relating to its goals, the organization has allied itself with groups including the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Gay and Lesbian Activists Alliance, the Tully Center for Free Speech at Syracuse University, National Coalition Against Censorship, the Heartland Institute, National Association of Scholars, American Booksellers Foundation for Free Expression, Accuracy in Academia, and the American Council of Trustees and Alumni. An academic paper in the \"Journal of Homosexuality\" characterized the organization as one \"that addresses both international and national sexual freedom issues as well as a host of other health and human rights issues.\"\n\nThe organization was founded in 2003 with the name Woodhull Freedom Foundation. It began with a focus on global and domestic human rights, specifically looking at sexual freedom. It is named for Victoria Woodhull (18381927), the first woman to own a company on Wall Street and to campaign for President of the United States. Its focus includes examining the stakeholders that maintain a climate of sexual repression.\n\nThe organization releases an annual report in September on \"Sexual Freedom Day\" called the \"State of Sexual Freedom\", which describes goals towards increasing sexual freedom. Woodhull's public relations representative Jeffrey Montgomery told the \"Washington Blade\" that their goals intersected with human rights: \"Woodhull is the organization at the intersection of all sexual freedom issues because of the common core value of fundamental human rights. ... Without sexual freedom all personal freedoms are at risk.\" Woodhull tracks laws and regulations pertaining to sexual activity in the United States.\n\nIn 2004, Woodhull joined with the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force in devoting resources towards analyzing old regulations used to harass LGBT people. The purpose of the study was to analyze existing regulations in the United States with regards to sexual activity, and simultaneously to foster ties between those against sexual repression and LGBT organizations. In 2005, Woodhull again coordinated with the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force in order to organize an event known as \"Red, White and Leather for Independence Day\", in which over 30 leather bars in 17 cities took part. Writer Eric Rofes served on the board of Woodhull before passing away in 2006. In 2007, its Sexual Freedom Day was commemorated with a discussion group examining the idea of sexual freedom as a segment of human rights. Sexual Freedom Day took place in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania as the first event of its kind on October 6, 2007 and included \"a fund raiser featuring the Peek-a-Boo Revue and DJ Johanna Constantine and DJ Roots and Groove.\"\nIn July 2008, when the American Family Foundation called for a McDonald's boycott after the fast food restaurant said it would join the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, Woodhull's executive director announced a \"buycott\" asking those interested in supporting the restaurant to purchase additional meals. Woodhull joined with the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups in 2009 on an amici curiae brief before the U.S. Supreme Court in the case, \"Federal Communications Commission v. Fox Television Stations\". On November 29, 2009, the Cleveland Leather Awareness Weekend (CLAW) organized a leather dance reception in San Diego, California so as to raise money for charitable purposes to assist the activities of Woodhull.\n\nThe organization gave its 2010 Victoria Woodhull Sexual Freedom Award on September 23 of that year to Kushaba Moses Mworeko, an individual from Uganda who sought asylum in the United States due to his sexual orientation. Author Hardy Haberman was a board member of Woodhull in 2011. On November 17, 2011, Woodhull worked with the DC Trans Coalition, the Gay and Lesbian Activists Alliance, Gender Rights Maryland, Get Equal DC, Helping Individual Prostitutes Survive (HIPS), the Rainbow Response Coalition, and Transgender Health Empowerment to form a coalition sponsoring a \"Transgender Day of Action\" in Washington, D.C. that highlights examples of mistreatment of transgender people by law enforcement. The event served as a precursor to the Transgender Day of Remembrance which followed on November 20.\n\nIn January 2012, the organization joined with other groups including the Tully Center for Free Speech at Syracuse University, National Coalition Against Censorship, the Heartland Institute, National Association of Scholars, Alliance Defense Fund Center for Academic Freedom, Feminists for Free Expression, American Booksellers Foundation for Free Expression, Accuracy in Academia, and the American Council of Trustees and Alumni to send a letter asking the U.S. Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights to use the precedent of the 1999 \"Davis v. Monroe County Board of Education\" case to apply a definition of harassment for academic institutions (so as not to harm freedom of speech). In 2012, Buck Angel served on the organization's Board of Directors of the organization, and sexologist Megan Andelloux served as an advisory board member. Lawrence G. Walters was the general counsel for Woodhull in 2012.\n\nAn academic paper by Susan Wright in the \"Journal of Homosexuality\" about those who faced discrimination due to sadomasochism (SM) described Woodhull as an organization \"that addresses both international and national sexual freedom issues as well as a host of other health and human rights issues.\" Wright noted Woodhull dedicates its focus towards changing regulations and existing laws.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22975616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22975616", "title": "Zero Option", "text": "Zero Option\n\nThe \"Zero Option\" was the name given to an American proposal for the withdrawal of all Soviet and United States intermediate-range nuclear missiles from Europe. This term was subsequently expanded to describe the vision of eliminating all nuclear weapons everywhere.\n\nU.S. President Ronald Reagan proposed this plan on 18 November 1981. He offered not to proceed with the deployment of Pershing II and cruise missiles – previously announced on 12 November 1979 and due to begin in 1983 – if the Soviet Union would remove its SS-4, SS-5 and SS-20 missiles targeted on Western Europe.\n\nEuropean and American anti-nuclear activists denounced the Zero Option as designed to be rejected so that the U.S. could deploy the new missiles without condemnation by critics there and abroad. Reagan's proposal came to widespread public attention especially in Germany, where the translated term \"Nullösung\" was chosen as Word of the Year 1981 by the \"Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache\".\n\nFollowing the coming to power of Mikhail Gorbachev, however, nuclear arms control negotiations were resumed, and the Zero Option constituted the basis of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, agreed in principle in September 1987 and signed on 8 December that year.\n\nReagan's vision toward elimination of nuclear weapons went far beyond the goals of the INF treaty. On January 16, 1984, he delivered a speech saying:\n\nOur aim was and continues to be to eliminate an entire class of nuclear arms. Indeed, I support a zero option for all nuclear arms. As I've said before, my dream is to see the day when nuclear weapons will be banished from the face of the Earth.\n\nThe final total of Soviet and United States nuclear missiles, eliminated under the terms of the INF Treaty by the end of May 1991, was 2,692. The fulfilment of this multilateral agreement, which removed both intermediate- and shorter-range nuclear forces from Europe (the \"Double-Zero\" deal), was widely seen as a key step towards ending the Cold War.\n\nThe push for total nuclear weapons abolition was promoted again by U.S. President Barack Obama in a speech given on April 4, 2009, in Prague, where he announced ...\n\nObama went on in that speech to state:\n\n\n"}
