{"id": "54876695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54876695", "title": "Abdullah Al-Salloum", "text": "Abdullah Al-Salloum\n\nAbdullah Al-Salloum (Arabic: عبد الله السلوم) (Tribe: Wuhiba, Banu Tamim) (born Abdullah Salim Abdullah Al-Salloum, August 28, 1981) is a Kuwaiti economist, entrepreneur, investor and author, who is known for his publications on the principles of political economics as well as for originating new accounting techniques that have been dedicated to public domain as part of social responsibility.\n\nAl-Salloum believes that Kuwaiti Vision 2035 has not followed the minimum standards of the sustainable development vision concept. His rationale was based on the insufficient methodology used to set the goals of that vision; by which a vision is just a collection of goals that will definitely be achieved once previously planned giant and large projects are executed. Hence, this vision would not require a real strategy to follow other than waiting.\n\nUnlike Kuwaiti Vision 2035, Al-Salloum sees Saudi Vision 2030 as a vision that follows reasonable standards of the sustainable development vision concept; defending most of its strategies in a book of six chapters. The reason behind having Al-Salloum focusing on the Saudi Arabian economy is the belief that Kuwait's economy, once sustainable, will be attached to the closest largest economy, Saudi Arabian.\n\nAl-Salloum's advised that following the leads of macroeconomic theories will be of an added value in moving the GCC economy from oil-based to diversified. Except for Kuwait, the decision-making process in all other GCC is centralized, where following those leads – in a direct manner – can be feasibly accomplished. For Kuwait's case, however, and because of the very distributed decision-making process made by democracy, following those leads to have an effective economic reform must have a prior political reform.\n\n\n\n\nAl-Salloum has developed – then dedicated to public domain – new accounting techniques using an open-source code and gave it a – CC0 – license to be developed and republished as part of social responsibility. The techniques help businesspeople to easily create qualified and advanced feasibility studies (managerial, technical, financial and market feasibility, as well as pricing mechanism) by inserting basic information. These techniques also assist Households rationalize their Expenses, to either raise savings or lower liabilities, with a minimum lifestyle change. The techniques have expanded to determine the valuation of running businesses for the purpose of acquisition or sale; creating more efficient negotiation outcomes. Al-Salloum has given free workshops on how such techniques can be utilized to get more realistic and reasonable results.\n"}
{"id": "49901055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49901055", "title": "Alessandro Nelli", "text": "Alessandro Nelli\n\nAlessandro Nelli (born Roma, 28 January 1842 – ?, ...) was an Italian entrepreneur. Nelli was the founder of the Fonderia Nelli (Nelli Foundry), which was the leading foundry in Rome from 1880 to 1900. Nelli worked for a number of artists, producing their artistic bronzes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1320349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1320349", "title": "Alexandra Isles", "text": "Alexandra Isles\n\nAlexandra Isles (née Moltke; born February 11, 1945) is a former actress and a documentary filmmaker. She appeared as the original Victoria Winters from 1966–68 on the cult TV serial \"Dark Shadows\", which aired on ABC TV from 1966–1971.\n\nAlexandra Moltke was born in Uppsala, Sweden in 1945, of Danish and American parentage, the elder of two daughters, to Count Carl Adam Moltke, son of Count Carl Moltke, and Countess Mabel Moltke (née Wilson; formerly Wright). Count Carl Adam Moltke was a permanent member of the Danish Mission to the United Nations, and Countess Moltke was an editor at \"Vogue\". Through her American grandmother, Cornelia Van Rensselaer Thayer, Alexandra and her younger sister, Victoria, are descended from the Livingston, Schuyler, Bayard and Van Rensselaer families. She attended the Chapin School in New York.\n\nIn 1985, she began work at the Museum of Television & Radio where she became a curator specializing in arts, drama and children's programming. In 1991, a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities launched her on a career as a producer and director of the award-winning documentaries \"The Power of Conscience: The Danish Resistance and Rescue of the Jews\" (1995); \"Scandalize My Name: Stories from the Blacklist\" (1999); \"Porraimos: Europe's Gypsies in the Holocaust\" (2002); \"The Healing Gardens of New York\" (2006); \"Hidden Treasures: Stories from a Great Museum\" (2011). Her films have been seen at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (Washington, DC), Museum of Modern Art (NY), and numerous film festivals including the Human Rights Watch and Margaret Mead Film Festivals, and all have aired on PBS.\n\nIn 1967 she married Philip Henry Isles II of the Lehman banking family at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in Manhattan. She left \"Dark Shadows\" in 1968 because she was pregnant. In 1969, she gave birth to a son, Adam. \n\nDuring the early 1980s, she was subpoenaed, and testified, as a witness in the trial of Claus von Bülow for attempted murder of his wife, Sunny. According to newspaper accounts, Moltke and von Bülow had been having an affair.\n\nhttp://alexandraisles.com/alexandra.html\n"}
{"id": "899965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=899965", "title": "American Society for Quality", "text": "American Society for Quality\n\nThe American Society for Quality (ASQ), formerly the American Society for Quality Control (ASQC), is a knowledge-based global community of quality professionals, with nearly 80,000 members dedicated to promoting and advancing quality tools, principles, and practices in their workplaces and communities.\n\nASQC was established on February 16, 1946 by 253 members in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, with George D. Edwards as its first president. The organization was first created as a way for quality experts and manufacturers to sustain quality-improvement techniques used during World War II.\n\nIn 1948, ASQC's Code of Ethics establishes standards for members to conduct their activities and business.\n\nIn 1997, the members of the organization voted to change its name from \"American Society for Quality Control\" to \"American Society for Quality\".\n\nToday, ASQ is a global organization with members in more than 130 countries. ASQ operates regional centers in North Asia, South Asia, Latin America, the Middle East/Africa and has established strategic alliances with 28 organizations through the World Partners® Program in countries like Brazil, Canada, and the United Arab Emirates to promote ASQ products and training.\n\nASQ provides its members with certification, training, publications, conferences, and other services. Internationally, ASQ has formed relationships with nonprofit organizations that have comparable missions and principles, forming collaborative efforts to meet the quality needs of companies, individuals, and organizations. ASQ is a founding partner of the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI), a quarterly economic indicator.\n\nSince 1989, ASQ has administered the annual Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award. The ASQ also gives the Dorian Shainin Medal, which is awarded annually for the \"Development and Application of Creative or Unique Statistical Approaches in the Solving of Problems Relative to the Quality of Product or Service\".\n\nASQ offers 18 professional certifications relating to various aspects of the quality profession. Exams are given nationally and, to a limited degree, worldwide several times annually. The body of knowledge for each certification is maintained through peer review every few years on a rotating schedule.\n\nIn 1968, the first ASQ certification was offered.\n\nIn 2016, ASQ's certification exam delivery method changed from paper to computer based testing at Prometric nationwide testing facilities.\n\nAll certifications listed are from this reference unless noted.\n\nIn a 2008 press release for the 40th anniversary of ASQ's certifications, the three most popular were the engineer (CQE), followed closely by the auditor (CQA) and the Six Sigma Black Belt (CSSBB).\n\nASQ publishes a range of magazines and journals:\nQuarterly:\n\nDivision and Forum Publications:\n\nASQ hosts a number of quality events and annual conferences worldwide:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35911437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35911437", "title": "Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India", "text": "Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India\n\nThe Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI) is a proposed regulatory body in India for uses of biotechnology products including genetically modified organisms (GMOs). The institute was first suggested under the Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI) draft bill prepared by the Department of Biotechnology in 2008. Since then, it has undergone several revisions. \n\nThe bill has faced opposition from farmer groups and anti-GMO activists.\n\nOn 23 January 2003, India ratified the Cartagena Protocol which protects biodiversity from potential risks of genetically modified organisms, the products of modern biotechnology. The protocol requires setting up of a regulatory body. Currently, the Genetic Engineering Approvals Committee, a body under the Ministry of Environment and Forests (India) is responsible for approval of genetically engineered products in India. If the bill is passed, the responsibility will be taken over by the Environment Appraisal Panel, a sub-division of the BRAI.\n\nAccording to the bill, BRAI will have a Chairperson, two full-time members and two part-time members; all will be required to have expertise in life sciences and biotechnology in agriculture, health care, environment and general biology. The bill also proposes setting up an inter-ministerial governing body, to oversee the performance of BRAI, and a National Biotechnology Advisory Council of stakeholders to provide feedback on the use of biotechnology products and organisms in the society. The regulatory body will be an autonomous and statutory agency to regulate the research, transport, import, and manufacture biotechnology products and organisms.\n\nSuman Sahai, founder of the Gene Campaign, has called the bill flawed. According to her, the bill is proposing new institutes without clearly defining their powers and responsibilities. She has also stated that the bill was introduced without consulting the people who will be affected by the bill. \n\nP. M. Bhargava, founder of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, has also opposed the bill. He has called the bill unconstitutional, as agricultural policy is the domain of state governments. He pointed out that the bill proposes formation of several subdivisions and has argued that they will consist of bureaucrats with no scientific knowledge. He has accused the Department of Biotechnology, which will be involved in selection of members, as a promoter of genetic technology in India. He has pointed out that the broadly defined term \"confidential commercial information\" has been kept outside the purview of the Right to Information Act. He had stated that the bill uses vague wordings which would criminalize sequencing or isolation of DNA and PCR techniques, requiring approval for each usage. Thus, hindering research and education. He pointed out the bill has no provision for mandatory labelling of GM foods. He criticized giving the body power to punish parties making false or misleading statements about GM crops, calling it unprecedented. \n\nIn September 2010, Jairam Ramesh, then Environment Minister, pointed out that the body is only deals with safety and efficacy of biotechnology products. The issue of commercialization has been left unaddressed. The decisions regarding commercialization can fall under the purview of Ministry of Environment and Forests, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture, or Department of Science and Technology.\n\nOn the other hand, Association of Biotechnology Led Enterprises (ABLE) has supported the bill. J.S. Rehman, an entomologist and a former member of the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation, has stated that most protesters associate genetic engineering with Monsanto, as a result development of Indian biotech is being hindered.\n"}
{"id": "4822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4822", "title": "Board of directors", "text": "Board of directors\n\nA board of directors is a recognized group of people who jointly oversee the activities of an organization, which can be either a for-profit business, nonprofit organization, or a government agency. Such a board's powers, duties, and responsibilities are determined by government regulations (including the jurisdiction's corporations law) and the organization's own constitution and bylaws. These authorities may specify the number of members of the board, how they are to be chosen, and how often they are to meet.\n\nIn an organization with voting members, the board is accountable to, and might be subordinate to, the organization's full membership, which usually vote for the members of the board. In a stock corporation, non-executive directors are voted for by the shareholders and the board is the highest authority in the management of the corporation. The board of directors appoints the chief executive officer of the corporation and sets out the overall strategic direction. In corporations with dispersed ownership, the identification and nomination of directors (that shareholders vote for or against) are often done by the board itself, leading to a high degree of self-perpetuation. In a non-stock corporation with no general voting membership, the board is the supreme governing body of the institution; its members are sometimes chosen by the board itself.\n\nOther names include board of directors and advisors, board of governors, board of managers, board of regents, board of trustees, or board of visitors. It may also be called \"the executive board\" and is often simply referred to as \"the board\".\n\nTypical duties of boards of directors include:\n\nThe legal responsibilities of boards and board members vary with the nature of the organization, and between jurisdictions. For companies with publicly trading stock, these responsibilities are typically much more rigorous and complex than for those of other types.\n\nTypically, the board chooses one of its members to be the \"chairman\" (often now called the \"chair\" or \"chairperson\"), who holds whatever title is specified in the by-laws or articles of association. However, in membership organizations, the members elect the president of the organization and the president becomes the board chair, unless the by-laws say otherwise.\n\nThe directors of an organization are the persons who are members of its board. Several specific terms categorize directors by the presence or absence of their other relationships to the organization.\n\nAn inside director is a director who is also an employee, officer, chief executive, major shareholder, or someone similarly connected to the organization. Inside directors represent the interests of the entity's stakeholders, and often have special knowledge of its inner workings, its financial or market position, and so on.\n\nTypical inside directors are:\n\nAn inside director who is employed as a manager or executive of the organization is sometimes referred to as an executive director (not to be confused with the title executive director sometimes used for the CEO position in some organizations). Executive directors often have a specified area of responsibility in the organization, such as finance, marketing, human resources, or production.\n\nAn outside director is a member of the board who is not otherwise employed by or engaged with the organization, and does not represent any of its stakeholders. A typical example is a director who is president of a firm in a different industry. Outside directors are not employees of the company or affiliated with it in any other way.\n\nOutside directors bring outside experience and perspectives to the board. For example, for a company that only serves a domestic market, the presence of CEOs from global multinational corporations as outside directors can help to provide insights on export and import opportunities and international trade options. One of the arguments for having outside directors is that they can keep a watchful eye on the inside directors and on the way the organization is run. Outside directors are unlikely to tolerate \"insider dealing\" between insider directors, as outside directors do not benefit from the company or organization. Outside directors are often useful in handling disputes between inside directors, or between shareholders and the board. They are thought to be advantageous because they can be objective and present little risk of conflict of interest. On the other hand, they might lack familiarity with the specific issues connected to the organization's governance and they might not know about the industry or sector in which the organization is operating.\n\n\nIndividual directors often serve on more than one board. This practice results in an interlocking directorate, where a relatively small number of individuals have significant influence over a large number of important entities. This situation can have important corporate, social, economic, and legal consequences, and has been the subject of significant research.\n\nThe process for running a board, sometimes called the board process, includes the selection of board members, the setting of clear board objectives, the dissemination of documents or board package to the board members, the collaborative creation of an agenda for the meeting, the creation and follow-up of assigned action items, and the assessment of the board process through standardized assessments of board members, owners, and CEOs. The science of this process has been slow to develop due to the secretive nature of the way most companies run their boards, however some standardization is beginning to develop. Some who are pushing for this standardization in the USA are the National Association of Corporate Directors, McKinsey Consulting and The Board Group.\n\nA board of directors conducts its meetings according to the rules and procedures contained in its governing documents. These procedures may allow the board to conduct its business by conference call or other electronic means. They may also specify how a quorum is to be determined.\n\nMost organizations have adopted \"Robert's Rules of Order\" as its guide to supplement its own rules. In this book, the rules for conducting board meetings may be less formal if there is no more than about a dozen board members present. An example of the informality is that motions are not required if it's clear what is being discussed.\n\nHistorically, nonprofit boards have not uncommonly had large boards with up to twenty-four members, but a modern trend is to have smaller boards as small as six or seven people. Studies suggest that after seven people, each additional person reduces the effectiveness of group decision-making.\n\nThe role and responsibilities of a board of directors vary depending on the nature and type of business entity and the laws applying to the entity (see types of business entity). For example, the nature of the business entity may be one that is traded on a public market (public company), not traded on a public market (a private, limited or closely held company), owned by family members (a family business), or exempt from income taxes (a non-profit, not for profit, or tax-exempt entity). There are numerous types of business entities available throughout the world such as a corporation, limited liability company, cooperative, business trust, partnership, private limited company, and public limited company.\n\nMuch of what has been written about boards of directors relates to boards of directors of business entities actively traded on public markets. More recently, however, material is becoming available for boards of private and closely held businesses including family businesses.\n\nA board-only organization is one whose board is self-appointed, rather than being accountable to a base of members through elections; or in which the powers of the membership are extremely limited.\n\nIn membership organizations, such as a society made up of members of a certain profession or one advocating a certain cause, a board of directors may have the responsibility of running the organization in between meetings of the membership, especially if the membership meets infrequently, such as only at an annual general meeting. The amount of powers and authority delegated to the board depend on the bylaws and rules of the particular organization. Some organizations place matters exclusively in the board's control while in others, the general membership retains full power and the board can only make recommendations.\n\nThe setup of a board of directors vary widely across organizations and may include provisions that are applicable to corporations, in which the \"shareholders\" are the members of the organization. A difference may be that the membership elects the officers of the organization, such as the president and the secretary, and the officers become members of the board in addition to the directors and retain those duties on the board. The directors may also be classified as officers in this situation. There may also be ex-officio members of the board, or persons who are members due to another position that they hold. These ex-officio members have all the same rights as the other board members.\n\nMembers of the board may be removed before their term is complete. Details on how they can be removed are usually provided in the bylaws. If the bylaws do not contain such details, the section on disciplinary procedures in \"Robert's Rules of Order\" may be used.\n\nIn a publicly held company, directors are elected to represent and are legally obligated as fiduciaries to represent owners of the company—the shareholders/stockholders. In this capacity they establish policies and make decisions on issues such as whether there is dividend and how much it is, stock options distributed to employees, and the hiring/firing and compensation of upper management.\n\nTheoretically, the control of a company is divided between two bodies: the board of directors, and the shareholders in general meeting. In practice, the amount of power exercised by the board varies with the type of company. In small private companies, the directors and the shareholders are normally the same people, and thus there is no real division of power. In large public companies, the board tends to exercise more of a supervisory role, and individual responsibility and management tends to be delegated downward to individual professional executives (such as a finance director or a marketing director) who deal with particular areas of the company's affairs.\n\nAnother feature of boards of directors in large public companies is that the board tends to have more \"de facto\" power. Many shareholders grant proxies to the directors to vote their shares at general meetings and accept all recommendations of the board rather than try to get involved in management, since each shareholder's power, as well as interest and information is so small. Larger institutional investors also grant the board proxies. The large number of shareholders also makes it hard for them to organize. However, there have been moves recently to try to increase shareholder activism among both institutional investors and individuals with small shareholdings.\n\nA contrasting view is that in large public companies it is upper management and not boards that wield practical power, because boards delegate nearly all of their power to the top executive employees, adopting their recommendations almost without fail. As a practical matter, executives even choose the directors, with shareholders normally following management recommendations and voting for them.\n\nIn most cases, serving on a board is not a career unto itself. For major corporations, the board members are usually professionals or leaders in their field. In the case of outside directors, they are often senior leaders of other organizations. Nevertheless, board members often receive remunerations amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars per year since they often sit on the boards of several companies. Inside directors are usually not paid for sitting on a board, but the duty is instead considered part of their larger job description. Outside directors are usually paid for their services. These remunerations vary between corporations, but usually consist of a yearly or monthly salary, additional compensation for each meeting attended, stock options, and various other benefits. such as travel, hotel and meal expenses for the board meetings. Tiffany & Co., for example, pays directors an annual retainer of $46,500, an additional annual retainer of $2,500 if the director is also a chairperson of a committee, a per-meeting-attended fee of $2,000 for meetings attended in person, a $500 fee for each meeting attended via telephone, in addition to stock options and retirement benefits.\n\nIn some European and Asian countries, there are two separate boards, an executive board for day-to-day business and a supervisory board (elected by the shareholders and employees) for supervising the executive board. In these countries, the CEO (chief executive or managing director) presides over the executive board and the chairman presides over the supervisory board, and these two roles will always be held by different people. This ensures a distinction between management by the executive board and governance by the supervisory board and allows for clear lines of authority. The aim is to prevent a conflict of interest and too much power being concentrated in the hands of one person. There is a strong parallel here with the structure of government, which tends to separate the political cabinet from the management civil service. In the United States, the board of directors (elected by the shareholders) is often equivalent to the supervisory board, while the executive board may often be known as the executive committee (operating committee or executive council), composed of the CEO and their direct reports (other C-level officers, division/subsidiary heads).\n\nThe development of a separate board of directors to manage/govern/oversee a company has occurred incrementally and indefinitely over legal history. Until the end of the 19th century, it seems to have been generally assumed that the general meeting (of all shareholders) was the supreme organ of a company, and that the board of directors merely acted as an agent of the company subject to the control of the shareholders in general meeting.\n\nHowever, by 1906, the English Court of Appeal had made it clear in the decision of \"Automatic Self-Cleansing Filter Syndicate Co Ltd v Cuninghame\" [1906] 2 Ch 34 that the division of powers between the board and the shareholders in general meaning depended on the construction of the articles of association and that, where the powers of management were vested in the board, the general meeting could not interfere with their lawful exercise. The articles were held to constitute a contract by which the members had agreed that \"the directors and the directors alone shall manage.\"\n\nThe new approach did not secure immediate approval, but it was endorsed by the House of Lords in \"Quin & Axtens v Salmon\" [1909] AC 442 and has since received general acceptance. Under English law, successive versions of Table A have reinforced the norm that, unless the directors are acting contrary to the law or the provisions of the Articles, the powers of conducting the management and affairs of the company are vested in them.\n\nThe modern doctrine was expressed in \"John Shaw & Sons (Salford) Ltd v Shaw\" [1935] 2 KB 113 by Greer LJ as follows:\n\nA company is an entity distinct alike from its shareholders and its directors. Some of its powers may, according to its articles, be exercised by directors, certain other powers may be reserved for the shareholders in general meeting. If powers of management are vested in the directors, they and they alone can exercise these powers. The only way in which the general body of shareholders can control the exercise of powers by the articles in the directors is by altering the articles, or, if opportunity arises under the articles, by refusing to re-elect the directors of whose actions they disapprove. They cannot themselves usurp the powers which by the articles are vested in the directors any more than the directors can usurp the powers vested by the articles in the general body of shareholders.\nIt has been remarked that this development in the law was somewhat surprising at the time, as the relevant provisions in Table A (as it was then) seemed to contradict this approach rather than to endorse it.\n\nIn most legal systems, the appointment and removal of directors is voted upon by the shareholders in general meeting or through a proxy statement. For publicly traded companies in the U.S., the directors which are available to vote on are largely selected by either the board as a whole or a nominating committee. Although in 2002 the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ required that nominating committees consist of independent directors as a condition of listing, nomination committees have historically received input from management in their selections even when the CEO does not have a position on the board. Shareholder nominations can only occur at the general meeting itself or through the prohibitively expensive process of mailing out ballots separately; in May 2009 the SEC proposed a new rule allowing shareholders meeting certain criteria to add nominees to the proxy statement. In practice for publicly traded companies, the managers (inside directors) who are purportedly accountable to the board of directors have historically played a major role in selecting and nominating the directors who are voted on by the shareholders, in which case more \"gray outsider directors\" (independent directors with conflicts of interest) are nominated and elected.\n\nDirectors may also leave office by resignation or death. In some legal systems, directors may also be removed by a resolution of the remaining directors (in some countries they may only do so \"with cause\"; in others the power is unrestricted).\n\nSome jurisdictions also permit the board of directors to appoint directors, either to fill a vacancy which arises on resignation or death, or as an addition to the existing directors.\n\nIn practice, it can be quite difficult to remove a director by a resolution in general meeting. In many legal systems, the director has a right to receive special notice of any resolution to remove him or her; the company must often supply a copy of the proposal to the director, who is usually entitled to be heard by the meeting. The director may require the company to circulate any representations that he wishes to make. Furthermore, the director's contract of service will usually entitle him to compensation if he is removed, and may often include a generous \"golden parachute\" which also acts as a deterrent to removal.\n\nA recent study examines how corporate shareholders voted in director elections in the United States. It found that directors received fewer votes from shareholders when their companies performed poorly, had excess CEO compensation, or had poor shareholder protection. Also, directors received fewer votes when they did not regularly attend board meetings or received negative recommendations from a proxy advisory firm. The study also shows that companies often improve their corporate governance by removing poison pills or classified boards and by reducing excessive CEO pay after their directors receive low shareholder support.\n\nBoard accountability to shareholders is a recurring issue. In 2010, the \"New York Times\" noted that several directors who had overseen companies which had failed in the financial crisis of 2007–2010 had found new positions as directors. The SEC sometimes imposes a ban (a \"D&O bar\") on serving on a board as part of its fraud cases, and one of these was upheld in 2013.\n\nThe exercise by the board of directors of its powers usually occurs in board meetings. Most legal systems require sufficient notice to be given to all directors of these meetings, and that a quorum must be present before any business may be conducted. Usually, a meeting which is held without notice having been given is still valid if all of the directors attend, but it has been held that a failure to give notice may negate resolutions passed at a meeting, because the persuasive oratory of a minority of directors might have persuaded the majority to change their minds and vote otherwise.\n\nIn most common law countries, the powers of the board are vested in the board as a whole, and not in the individual directors. However, in instances an individual director may still bind the company by his acts by virtue of his ostensible authority (see also: the rule in \"Turquand's Case\").\n\nBecause directors exercise control and management over the organization, but organizations are (in theory) run for the benefit of the shareholders, the law imposes strict duties on directors in relation to the exercise of their duties. The duties imposed on directors are fiduciary duties, similar to those that the law imposes on those in similar positions of trust: agents and trustees.\n\nThe duties apply to each director separately, while the powers apply to the board jointly. Also, the duties are owed to the company itself, and not to any other entity. This does not mean that directors can never stand in a fiduciary relationship to the individual shareholders; they may well have such a duty in certain circumstances.\n\nDirectors must exercise their powers for a proper purpose. While in many instances an improper purpose is readily evident, such as a director looking to feather his or her own nest or divert an investment opportunity to a relative, such breaches usually involve a breach of the director's duty to act in good faith. Greater difficulties arise where the director, while acting in good faith, is serving a purpose that is not regarded by the law as proper.\n\nThe seminal authority in relation to what amounts to a proper purpose is the Supreme Court decision in Eclairs Group Ltd v JKX Oil & Gas plc (2015). The case concerned the powers of directors under the articles of association of the company to disenfranchise voting rights attached to shares for failure to properly comply with notice served on the shareholders. Prior to that case the leading authority was \"Howard Smith Ltd v Ampol Ltd\" [1974] AC 821. The case concerned the power of the directors to issue new shares. It was alleged that the directors had issued a large number of new shares purely to deprive a particular shareholder of his voting majority. An argument that the power to issue shares could only be properly exercised to raise new capital was rejected as too narrow, and it was held that it would be a proper exercise of the director's powers to issue shares to a larger company to ensure the financial stability of the company, or as part of an agreement to exploit mineral rights owned by the company. If so, the mere fact that an incidental result (even if it was a desired consequence) was that a shareholder lost his majority, or a takeover bid was defeated, this would not itself make the share issue improper. But if the sole purpose was to destroy a voting majority, or block a takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nNot all jurisdictions recognised the \"proper purpose\" duty as separate from the \"good faith\" duty however.\n\nDirectors cannot, without the consent of the company, fetter their discretion in relation to the exercise of their powers, and cannot bind themselves to vote in a particular way at future board meetings. This is so even if there is no improper motive or purpose, and no personal advantage to the director.\n\nThis does not mean, however, that the board cannot agree to the company entering into a contract which binds the company to a certain course, even if certain actions in that course will require further board approval. The company remains bound, but the directors retain the discretion to vote against taking the future actions (although that may involve a breach by the company of the contract that the board previously approved).\n\nAs fiduciaries, the directors may not put themselves in a position where their interests and duties conflict with the duties that they owe to the company. The law takes the view that good faith must not only be done, but must be manifestly seen to be done, and zealously patrols the conduct of directors in this regard; and will not allow directors to escape liability by asserting that his decision was in fact well founded. Traditionally, the law has divided conflicts of duty and interest into three sub-categories.\n\nBy definition, where a director enters into a transaction with a company, there is a conflict between the director's interest (to do well for himself out of the transaction) and his duty to the company (to ensure that the company gets as much as it can out of the transaction). This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v Blaikie\" (1854) 1 Macq HL 461 Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that:\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions which would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle can be overridden in the company's constitution.\n\nIn many countries, there is also a statutory duty to declare interests in relation to any transactions, and the director can be fined for failing to make disclosure.\n\nDirectors must not, without the informed consent of the company, use for their own profit the company's assets, opportunities, or information. This prohibition is much less flexible than the prohibition against the transactions with the company, and attempts to circumvent it using provisions in the articles have met with limited success.\n\nIn \"Regal (Hastings) Ltd v Gulliver\" [1942] All ER 378 the House of Lords, in upholding what was regarded as a wholly unmeritorious claim by the shareholders, held that:\n\nAnd accordingly, the directors were required to disgorge the profits that they made, and the shareholders received their windfall.\n\nThe decision has been followed in several subsequent cases, and is now regarded as settled law.\n\nDirectors cannot compete directly with the company without a conflict of interest arising. Similarly, they should not act as directors of competing companies, as their duties to each company would then conflict with each other.\n\nTraditionally, the level of care and skill which has to be demonstrated by a director has been framed largely with reference to the non-executive director. In \"Re City Equitable Fire Insurance Co\" [1925] Ch 407, it was expressed in purely subjective terms, where the court held that:\n\nHowever, this decision was based firmly in the older notions (see above) that prevailed at the time as to the mode of corporate decision making, and effective control residing in the shareholders; if they elected and put up with an incompetent decision maker, they should not have recourse to complain.\n\nHowever, a more modern approach has since developed, and in \"Dorchester Finance Co Ltd v Stebbing\" [1989] BCLC 498 the court held that the rule in \"Equitable Fire\" related only to skill, and not to diligence. With respect to diligence, what was required was:\n\nThis was a dual subjective and objective test, and one deliberately pitched at a higher level.\n\nMore recently, it has been suggested that both the tests of skill and diligence should be assessed objectively and subjectively; in the United Kingdom, the statutory provisions relating to directors' duties in the new Companies Act 2006 have been codified on this basis.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, the law provides for a variety of remedies in the event of a breach by the directors of their duties:\n\nHistorically, directors' duties have been owed almost exclusively to the company and its members, and the board was expected to exercise its powers for the financial benefit of the company. However, more recently there have been attempts to \"soften\" the position, and provide for more scope for directors to act as good corporate citizens. For example, in the United Kingdom, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors of companies \"to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole\" and sets out the following six factors regarding a director's duty to promote success:\n\nThis represents a considerable departure from the traditional notion that directors' duties are owed only to the company. Previously in the United Kingdom, under the Companies Act 1985, protections for non-member stakeholders were considerably more limited (see, for example, s.309 which permitted directors to take into account the interests of employees but which could only be enforced by the shareholders and not by the employees themselves). The changes have therefore been the subject of some criticism.\n\nMost companies have weak mechanisms for bringing the voice of society into the board room. They rely on personalities who weren't appointed for their understanding of societal issues. Often they give limited focus (both through time and financial resource) to issues of corporate responsibility and sustainability. A Social Board has society designed into its structure. It elevates the voice of society through specialist appointments to the board and mechanisms that empower innovation from within the organisation. Social Boards align themselves with themes that are important to society.These may include measuring worker pay ratios, linking personal social and environmental objectives to remuneration, integrated reporting, fair tax and B-Corp Certification. \n\nSocial Boards recognise that they are part of society and that they require more than a licence to operate to succeed.They balance short-term shareholder pressure against long-term value creation, managing the business for a plurality of stakeholders including employees, shareholders, supply chains and civil society.\n\nThe Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 has introduced new standards of accountability on boards of U.S. companies or companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges. Under the Act, directors risk large fines and prison sentences in the case of accounting crimes. Internal control is now the direct responsibility of directors. The vast majority of companies covered by the Act have hired internal auditors to ensure that the company adheres to required standards of internal control. The internal auditors are required by law to report directly to an audit board, consisting of directors more than half of whom are outside directors, one of whom is a \"financial expert.\"\n\nThe law requires companies listed on the major stock exchanges (NYSE, NASDAQ) to have a majority of independent directors—directors who are not otherwise employed by the firm or in a business relationship with it.\n\nAccording to the Corporate Library's study, the average size of publicly traded company's board is 9.2 members, and most boards range from 3 to 31 members. According to Investopedia, some analysts think the ideal size is seven. State law may specify a minimum number of directors, maximum number of directors, and qualifications for directors (e.g. whether board members must be individuals or may be business entities).\n\nWhile a board may have several committees, two—the compensation committee and audit committee—are critical and must be made up of at least three independent directors and no inside directors. Other common committees in boards are nominating and governance.\n\nDirectors of Fortune 500 companies received median pay of $234,000 in 2011. Directorship is a part-time job. A recent National Association of Corporate Directors study found directors averaging just 4.3 hours a week on board work. Surveys indicate that about 20% of nonprofit foundations pay their board members, and 2% of American nonprofit organizations do. 80% of nonprofit organizations require board members to personally contribute to the organization, as BoardSource recommends. This percentage has increased in recent years.\n\nAccording to John Gillespie, a former investment banker and co-author of a book critical of boards, \"Far too much of their time has been for check-the-box and cover-your-behind activities rather than real monitoring of executives and providing strategic advice on behalf of shareholders\". At the same time, scholars have found that individual directors have a large effect on major corporate initiatives such as mergers and acquisitions and cross-border investments.\n\nThe issue of gender representation on corporate boards of directors has been the subject of much criticism in recent years. Governments and corporations have responded with measures such as legislation mandating gender quotas and comply or explain systems to address the disproportionality of gender representation on corporate boards. A study of the French corporate elite has found that certain social classes are also disproportionately represented on boards, with those from the upper and, especially, upper-middle classes tending to dominate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5614195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5614195", "title": "California's 34th congressional district", "text": "California's 34th congressional district\n\nCalifornia's 34th congressional district is a congressional district in Los Angeles County in the U.S. state of California. The district has been represented by Democrat Jimmy Gomez since June 2017. Its previous representative, Democrat Xavier Becerra of Los Angeles, resigned January 24, 2017 to become Attorney General of California. Representative Gomez won a special election on June 6, 2017, beating fellow Democrat Robert Lee Ahn to replace Becerra. He was later sworn in as the District's Congressman on July 11, 2017.\n\nThe district is almost entirely within the City of Los Angeles and includes the following neighborhoods in Central, East and Northeast Los Angeles:\n\n\n\n, there are five former members of the U.S. House of Representatives from California's 34th congressional district that are currently living.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23805828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23805828", "title": "Core (manufacturing)", "text": "Core (manufacturing)\n\nA core is a device used in casting and moulding processes to produce internal cavities and reentrant angles (an interior angle that is greater than 180°). The core is normally a disposable item that is destroyed to get it out of the piece. They are most commonly used in sand casting, but are also used in die casting and injection moulding.\n\nFor example, cores define multiple passages inside cast engine blocks. One model of GM V-8 engine requires 5 dry-sand cores for every casting.\n\n\nCores are useful for features that cannot tolerate draft or to provide detail that cannot otherwise be integrated into a core-less casting or mold.\n\nThe main disadvantage is the additional cost to incorporate cores.\n\nThere are seven requirements for cores:\n\n\nMany types of cores are available. The selection of the correct type of core depends on production quantity, production rate, required precision, required surface finish, and the type of metal being used. For example, certain metals are sensitive to gases that are given off by certain types of core sands; other metals have too low of a melting point to properly break down the binder for removal during the shakeout.\n\n\"Green-sand cores makes casting long narrow features difficult or impossible. Even for long features that can be cast it still leave much material to be machined. A typical application is a through hole in a casting.\n\nThe simplest way to make a dry-sand cores is in a \"dump core box\", in which sand is packed into the box and scraped level with the top. A wood or metal plate is then placed over the box, and then the two are flipped over and the core segment falls out of the core box. The core segment is then baked or hardened. Multiple core segments are then hot glued together or attached by some other means. Any rough spots are filed or sanded down. Finally, the core is lightly coated with graphite, silica, or mica to give a smoother surface finish and greater resistance to heat.\n\"Single-piece cores\" do not need to be assembled because they are made in a \"split core box\". A split core box, like it sounds, is made of two halves and has at least one hole for sand to be introduced. For simple cores that have constant cross-sections they can be created on special core-producing extruders. The extrusions are then cut to the proper length and hardened. More complex single-piece cores can be made in a manner similar to injection moldings and die castings.\n\nTypes of core:\n\nCores are used for complex injection moldings in the fusible core injection molding process. First, a core is made from a fusible alloy or low melting temperature polymer. It is then placed inside the injection mold's dies and the plastic is shot into the mold. The molding is then removed from the mold with the core still in it. Finally, the core is melted or washed out of the molding in a hot bath.\n\nSpecial \"binders\" are introduced into core sands to add strength. The oldest binder was vegetable oil, however now synthetic oil is used, in conjunction with cereal or clay. The core is then baked in a convection oven between . The heat causes the binder to cross-link or polymerize. While this process is simple, the dimensional accuracy is low.\n\nAnother type of binder process is called the \"hot-box process\", which uses a thermoset and catalyst for a binder. The sand with the binder is packed into a core box that is heated to approximately (which is where the name originated from). The binder that touches the hot surface of the core box begins to cure within 10 to 30 seconds. Depending on the type of binder it may require further baking to fully cure. Cores produced using this method are sometimes referred to as \"shell-core\" because often, only the outside layer of the core is hardened when in contact with the hot corebox. When the corebox is opened and the core removed, the uncured sand inside the core is dumped out to be reused. This practice can also be observed in some cold-box coremaking practices, though cold box shell-core making is much less common.\n\nIn a similar vein, the \"cold-box process\" uses a binder that is hardened through the use of special gases. The binder coated sand is packed into a core box and then sealed so that a curing gas can be introduced. These gases are often toxic (i.e. amine gas) or odorous (i.e. SO), so special handling systems must be used. However, because high temperatures are not required the core box can be made from metal, wood, or plastic. An added benefit is that hollow core can be formed if the gas is introduced via holes in the core surface which cause only the surface of the core to harden; the remaining sand is then just dumped out to be used again. For example, a cold-box sand casting core binder is sodium silicate which hardens on exposure to carbon dioxide.\n\nSpecial binders are used in \"air-set sands\" to produce core at room temperature. These sands do not require a gas catalyst because organic binders and a curing catalyst are mixed together in the sand which initiates the curing process. The only disadvantage with this is that after the catalyst is mixed in there is a short time to use the sand. A third way to produce room temperature cores is by shell molding.\n\nThe term \"no-bake sands\" can refer to either the cold-box process or air-set process.\n\nTo increase the strength of cores internal wires and rods can be added. To enhance collapsibility, straw can be added to the middle of the core or a hollow core can be used. This attribute is especially important for steel casting because a large amount of shrinkage occurs.\n\nExcept for very small cores, all cores require vent holes to release gases. These are usually formed by using small wires to create holes from the surface of the mold to the core. When this is not feasible cinder and coke can be added to the core to increase permeability.\n\nIf Fub≤0, no chaplet is used.\n\nIf Fub>0, chaplets is used.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, cores are usually supported by two core prints in the mold. However, there are situations where a core only uses one core print so other means are required to support the cantilevered end. These are usually supplied in the form of \"chaplets\". These are small metal supports that bridge the gap between the mold surface and the core. Since the chaplets become part of the casting, the chaplets must be of the same or similar material as the metal being cast. Moreover, their design must be optimized because if they are too small they will completely melt and allow the core to move, but if they are too big then their whole surface cannot melt and fuse with the poured metal. Their use should also be minimized because they can cause casting defects or create weak spots in the casting. It is usually more critical to ensure the upper chaplets are stronger than the lower ones because the core will tend to float upward in the molten metal.\n\nWhen casting a reentrant angle, instead of using a core a \"cheek\" can be used. This is a third segment in the flask, in addition to the cope and drag. This allows the entire mold to be made from green sand and from removable patterns. The disadvantage of this is more mold-making operations are required, but it is usually advantageous when the quantities are low. However, if large quantities of casting are required, it is usually more cost effective to simply use a core.\n"}
{"id": "52221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52221", "title": "Corporate welfare", "text": "Corporate welfare\n\nCorporate welfare is a term that analogizes corporate subsidies to welfare payments for the poor. The term is often used to describe a government's bestowal of money grants, tax breaks, or other special favorable treatment for corporations. It highlights how wealthy corporations are less in need of such treatment than the poor.\n\nThe definition of corporate welfare is sometimes restricted to direct government subsidies of major corporations, excluding tax loopholes and all manner of regulatory and trade decisions, which, in practice, could be worth much more than any direct subsidies.\n\nThe term \"corporate welfare\" was reportedly invented in 1956 by Ralph Nader.\n\nBelieved to have been first popularised by Michael Harrington's 1962 book \"The Other America\" in which Harrington cited Charles Abrams, a noted authority on housing.\n\nVariations on this adage have been used in criticisms of the United States' economic policy by Joe Biden, Martin Luther King, Jr., Gore Vidal, Joseph P. Kennedy II, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Dean Baker, Noam Chomsky, Robert Reich, John Pilger, and Bernie Sanders.\n\n\"Privatizing profits and socializing losses\" refers to the idea that corporations want to reserve financial gains for themselves and pass along losses to the rest of society, potentially through lobbying the government for assistance. This practice was criticized in the Wall Street bailout of 2008.\n\nSubsidies considered excessive, unwarranted, wasteful, unfair, inefficient, or bought by lobbying are often called corporate welfare. The label of corporate welfare is often used to decry projects advertised as benefiting the general welfare that spend a disproportionate amount of funds on large corporations, and often in uncompetitive, or anti-competitive ways. For instance, in the United States, agricultural subsidies are usually portrayed as helping independent farmers stay afloat. However, the majority of income gained from commodity support programs actually goes to large agribusiness corporations such as Archer Daniels Midland, as they own a considerably larger percentage of production.\n\nAlan Peters and Peter Fisher, Associate Professors at the University of Iowa, have estimated that state and local governments provide $40–50 billion annually in economic development incentives, which critics characterize as corporate welfare.\n\nSome economists consider the 2008 bank bailouts in the United States to be corporate welfare. U.S. politicians have also contended that zero-interest loans from the Federal Reserve System to financial institutions during the global financial crisis were a hidden, backdoor form of corporate welfare. The term gained increased prominence in 2018 when Senator Bernie Sanders introduced a bill, singling out Amazon and Walmart in particular, to require a company with 500 or more employees to pay the full cost of welfare benefits received by its workers.\n\nPolicy analysis conducted by the Cato Institute, an American libertarian think tank, argued that United States fiscal policy allocated approximately in the 2006 federal budget toward programs that the authors considered to be corporate welfare. Subsequent analysis by the institute estimated that number to be in the 2012 federal budget.\n\nDaniel D. Huff, professor emeritus of social work at Boise State University, published a comprehensive analysis of corporate welfare in 1993. Huff reasoned that a very conservative estimate of corporate welfare expenditures in the United States would have been at least in 1990. Huff compared this number with social welfare:\nHuff argued that deliberate obfuscation was a complicating factor.\n\nIn 2015, Kevin Farnsworth, a senior lecturer in Social Policy at the University of York published a paper in which he claimed that the government was providing corporate subsidies of £93 billion. This amount includes the role of the government in increasing trade, tax relief for businesses that invest in new plants and machinery (estimated by Farnsworth at £20 billion), not charging fuel duty on fuel used by railways or airlines, green energy subsidies, a lower corporation tax rate for small companies, regional development grants and government procurement for businesses (which Farnsworth suggests often favours British businesses even when these are not the best value option available). However, \"The Register\" wrote that Farnsworth's figure for tax relief for investment was incorrect and that he had made mistakes in his calculations, noting that he was not an accountant. It also stated that not charging businesses taxes under certain circumstances (when the reliefs applied) was not the same as giving them a subsidy. Fuel duty is not charged on airlines due to the Convention on International Civil Aviation (a UN agency) which specifies that aeroplanes should be exempt from fuel duties.\n\nIn 2015, Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn said he would “strip out” the £93bn of “corporate tax relief and subsidies” Farnsworth referred to and use the proceeds for public investment. Corbyn did not say which specific policies he would change. \"The Guardian\" wrote the policy \"sounds wonderful, but careful scrutiny of 'corporate welfare' shows that it includes capital allowances designed to persuade companies to invest, regional aid to boost growth in rundown parts of the UK, and subsidies to keep bus and rail routes open – none of which Corbyn would presumably like to see stopped.\"\n\nThe New Democratic Party in Canada picked up the term as a major theme in its 1972 federal election campaign. Its leader, David Lewis, used the term in the title of his 1972 book, \"Louder Voices: The Corporate Welfare Bums\".\n\nThe Reform Party and its successor the Canadian Alliance were known for opposing mostly business subsidies. However, after their merger with the Progressive Conservative party, they dropped their opposition to it. \n\nIt was observed by The Wire that the Effective tax rate was low for the larger corporations which meant companies making smaller profits are competing in an unequal environment against bigger companies with substantial taxation benefits, with the gap in effective tax rates widening over the years. India's Union government's prime minister criticised this practice and said\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1283679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283679", "title": "Downtown Orlando", "text": "Downtown Orlando\n\nDowntown Orlando is the historic core and central business district of Orlando, Florida, United States. It is bordered by Marks Street in the north, Mills Avenue (SR 15) in the east, Orange Blossom Trail (US 441) in the west, and Kaley Avenue in the south. There are several distinct neighborhoods in downtown; \"North Quarter\" to the north, \"Lake Eola Heights Historic District\" just north of Lake Eola, \"South Eola\" contains Lake Eola Park and continues to the east and south of Lake Eola, \"Thornton Park\" in the east, \"Parramore\" in the west, \"Lake Cherokee Historic District\" to the south, and the \"Central Business District\" (or the \"Financial District\") between Colonial Drive and Lake Lucerne in the center. In 2010, the estimated population of downtown was 18,731. The daytime population was estimated to be 65,000 (in 2010). The 5-mile radius population of downtown is 273,335.\n\nDowntown Orlando is the largest of urban centers in Central Florida. It is home to residential and commercial towers; local, state, and federal government offices; sports facilities; performing arts theaters; art galleries; a movie theater; retail; nightclubs; and parks. Downtown is removed from the tourist areas located in the southwestern half of the city; but does draw a significant number of visitors seeking to experience the \"Real Orlando\". It is also the location of numerous festivals, parades, political demonstrations, and other high-profile events year-round.\n\nThere are seven official neighborhoods with significant portions inside the Downtown Orlando Community Redevelopment Area (CRA):\nThe CRA also includes small pieces of College Park (portions east of Peachtree Road, and along Orange Avenue between Magnolia and Highland Avenues), Lake Cherokee (portions west of Delaney Avenue and north of Ponce de Leon Place / Palmer Street), Lorna Doone (the Citrus Bowl Stadium only), Park Lake/Highland (portion north of Lake Highland), South Division (portion north of Gore Street, mostly highway right-of-way), South Orange (portion north of Gore Street), and Thornton Park (portion north of Central Boulevard and west of James Avenue).\n\nLocated north of Colonial Drive, the border of this area is Interstate 4 to the west, and Highland Avenue to the east, the north border is N Orange Ave & the I-4 on-ramps at Lake Ivanhoe. This is a vibrant area that has seen many apartments and condominiums built, bringing a diverse collection of businesses including dining and shopping to the area. With such close proximity to the Central Business District for working professionals, this has become a valuable area for those who seek the convenience of work/play/live in downtown Orlando.\n\nEstablished in the 1880s, Parramore is the historical hub of Orlando's African-American community. The area is located just west of the Central Business district along Division Ave and West Church Street. Now considered an economically depressed area, Orlando leaders are working with business owners in the community to improve the area's reputation. While some parts of the neighborhood have been gentrified, Parramore still maintains its historical African-American identity.\n\nIt is a residential area with a large number of high-intensity entertainment and office institutions; such as the Amway Center, Bob Carr Performing Arts Centre, US Courthouse for the Mid-District of Florida, Florida A&M University School of Law, county & state buildings, and Orlando Police Department headquarters. Smaller businesses include grocery stores, barber shops, and soul food restaurants.\n\nOrlando officially considers Parramore to be three separate neighborhoods: Lake Dot (between Colonial Drive and Amelia Street), Callahan (between Amelia Street and Central Boulevard), and Holden/Parramore (between Central Boulevard and Gore Street). All three are bounded on the east by Interstate 4 and on the west by Orange Blossom Trail.\n\nThe central business district is Orlando's Financial District and is the most recognized feature of downtown. The majority of Orlando's night clubs are also in this area. Located here are corporate offices for Wells Fargo and Suntrust banks, Orlando City Hall, foreign consulates, and many hotels. SunTrust Center and City Commons are two large office complexes within\nthe CBD. Church Street Station is also located in this area. Many of Orlando's historic buildings are located within the CBD standing next to modern skyscrapers. The Rogers Building (built in 1886), originally an English Gentlemen's Club built in the Queen Anne style, is the oldest building in downtown Orlando.\n\nLake Eola Park is located in South Eola, east of the CBD. Lake Eola Heights is located north of the lake and South Eola continues to the east and south of the lake. The park is historically significant and is a frequent venue for events and festivals. The park's most iconic landmark is the Linton E. Allen Memorial Fountain (locally known as the Lake Eola Fountain), permanently embedded to the bottom with concrete beams in the center of the lake. The fountain is illuminated nightly in various colors with two nightly water shows. In addition to the fountain, the park features swan boat rentals and the \"Walt Disney Amphitheater\". Every Independence Day, the park is host to a large fireworks display which draws thousands of people to downtown. A recreational pathway circles the park and leads to a playground.\n\nLake Eola Heights is unique in Orlando as it contains some of the oldest homes in the city and is another one of Orlando's historic districts. There are many historical \"Florida style\" bungalows and century-old oak lined brick streets.\n\nThornton Park is located one city block east of Lake Eola Park. The streets creating its border are: Summerlin Ave, E Robinson St, N Brown Ave, E Central Blvd to S Hyer Ave, and S Hyer Ave south to Florida State Road 408. The area is similar to the Lake Eola Heights neighborhood in that it contains historic homes and the streets are paved with bricks, although it is roughly half the size. Thornton Park also enjoys a handful of small restaurants, bars and boutiques along E Washington St. The neighborhood also has a small fountain located in the center of the intersection of E Washington St & N Hyer Ave which has become a focal point, and is described here: The Fountain is a replica of a fountain found in a Paris city center that is 25 times its size. In 1999 the \"Taste of Thornton Park Event\" was organized specifically to raise enough money to purchase the Thornton Park Fountain for around $17,000 + $23,000 for fountain foundation. Howard Middle School, which was the original Orlando High School, is located here.\n\nPrior to the arrival of European settlers in 1837, the Orlando area was occupied by the Native American Creek and Seminole tribes. In 1838, Fort Gatlin was built a few miles south of downtown Orlando on the shores of modern-day Lake Gatlin; (a historic marker is now located on the fort site). In 1850, a man named Aaron Jernigan built a post office north of the fort and the area became known as \"Jernigan\". In 1856, Jernigan was relieved of his command of the post office due to \"notorious acts\" and the area was renamed \"Orlando\". The village remained little more than a backwater during and after the Civil War until 1875 when The \"Town of Orlando\" was incorporated. It was centered around the original Orange County Courthouse in between today's Court Avenue and Magnolia Avenue (originally named \"Main Street\").\n\nA fire in 1884 almost destroyed the entire town. Before the fire, most of the structures in Orlando were built with wood and the town was without fire protection. The town began to rebuild and a fire brigade was formed. Orlando became a city in 1885 and the arrival of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in 1890 brought tremendous growth. Commercial activity shifted away from the courthouse and moved to the new railroad depot located on Church Street. Settlers from England arrived in Orlando and established homes and businesses. One of the newly arrived Englishmen was named Joseph Bumby. He and his family settled in the town and built a hardware store known as \"Bumby Hardware Store\". The store remained an Orlando fixture until the 1960s, but the name \"Bumby\" is still famous in the city. The location of the hardware store is now a Hamburger Mary's.\n\nBy the 1920s, Orlando had grown from a cattle town to a major citrus growing center. The Florida land boom of the 1920s brought many newcomers to the city. The population increase led to the construction of the Orlando Public Library in 1923, the Orlando Municipal Auditorium (now Bob Carr Performing Arts Centre) in 1926, and several grand hotels; namely the Angebilt Hotel and San Juan Hotel. By this time, the city's population had grown to 9,000 people.\n\nThe federal government's Works Progress Administration programs during the Great Depression helped Orlando remain economically stable. New parks were developed, the Municipal Airport (now Orlando Executive Airport) was built, and the city also built a new football stadium at Tinker Field (now the site of Florida Citrus Bowl). By 1944, enough jobs were created to increase the city's population to 45,000 people. Orlando became a major military center when World War II brought the development of McCoy Air Force Base and Pinecastle AFB, located southeast of downtown. This status intensified with the 1968 opening of the Orlando Naval Training Center east of downtown.\n\nWalt Disney World's 1971 opening in southwest Orange County brought major development to Orlando, but relatively little to the downtown area. During this time, development in downtown was mainly focused upon the construction of office towers, such as the Citrus Center and the original Sunbank building. However, downtown began to fall into a state of decline. The Angebilt Hotel and \"San Juan Hotels\" were abandoned and left to crumble. The San Juan was eventually demolished in 1980, but the Angebilt Hotel at 37 N Orange Ave which was built in 1923 would be transformed in modern times into an office building with retail on the ground floor. Lake Eola Park became a haven for prostitutes and drug addicts. In addition, downtown department stores and family owned businesses closed or moved to the newly constructed Orlando Fashion Square mall. After the opening of Interstate 4, the downtown population base moved out of downtown to the suburbs.\n\nEfforts to revitalize downtown began in the mid 1970s and continued into the 1980s. Bob Snow opened \"Rosie O'Grady's\" in 1974 at Church Street Station, which quickly became a popular attraction. In the mid 1980s, several skyscrapers were constructed; including SunTrust Center and Barnett Plaza (now Bank of America Center). Lake Eola Park was redesigned and the Walt Disney Amphitheater opened in the park around the same time the annual \"Orlando Shakespeare Festival\" was established. On the other hand, downtown's population base still had yet to rebound to previous levels and major corporations were still opening locations outside of the city center.\n\nThe Orlando City Hall building, the city's third, opened in 1991 directly behind the previous City Hall, constructed in 1958. To clear the area for future development, the Orlando City Council chose to implode the 1950s building. The event was met with much local fanfare and was filmed for use in the opening scenes of the 1992 film Lethal Weapon 3. The area cleared is now occupied by CNL City Center Commons.\n\nUntil the late 1990s, downtown was relatively small compared to other cities of Orlando's size. A building boom began in 1998 and continued through the 2000s decade. New commercial towers sprouted along Orange Avenue and residential towers were constructed around Lake Eola and along Magnolia Ave. CNL Financial Group established a major footprint in downtown with the construction of CNL City Center Commons, a complex of office towers surrounding Orlando City Hall. CNL continues to expand their presence downtown. As a result of the construction boom, downtown density doubled and Orlando's skyline dramatically changed. In 2005, the term \"Manhattanization\" was locally applied to Orange Avenue when a large number of construction cranes loomed over downtown. The late 2000s recession slowed large intensity skyscraper construction; but infill development continued downtown including construction of the Amway Center in 2009.\n\nIn 2011, construction began on phase one of the long-awaited Dr. Phillips Center for Performing Arts across from City Hall along Orange Ave.\n\nThe majority of the tallest towers in Central Florida are located downtown. Of the 79 existing high-rises in the Greater Orlando region, 46 are located downtown.\n\nThe tallest high-rises in Orlando are:\n\nTowers built in downtown Orlando have not exceeded since the completion of the Suntrust Center in 1988. There has never been an \"official\" reason why, but local architects speculate it is due to the Orlando Executive Airport location just east of downtown. The airport's flight path is over the city center, thus the Federal Aviation Administration has imposed height restrictions.\n\nDowntown Orlando is served by three main arteries, two limited access highways, several secondaries, and many byways.\nLimited Access\n\nArterials\n\nSecondaries\n\nPublic Transportation\n\nBus\n\nThe Central Florida Regional Transportation Authority (CFRTA), better known as Lynx, operates the regional bus service with its central station and offices located at 455 N Garland Avenue.\n\nLynx Operates a zero-fare bus route called Lymmo (Link 31) along a completely separate and dedicated right-of-way. Because this bus system runs on its own right-of-way and controls the traffic signaling, in most cases it is superior to automobile travel within the downtown area. Lymmo service also runs along the Orange Avenue corridor, north to Florida Hospital and south to Michigan Avenue. There is also an east/west connection from the Citrus Bowl to South Eola.\n\nRail\n\nDowntown is served by an Amtrak station about a mile south of the central business district. The \"Silver Meteor\" and \"Silver Star\" lines provide train service to New York City, Miami and Tampa.\n\nConstruction began in 2012 on SunRail, a North-South commuter rail that will run mostly along existing CSX/Amtrak rails. Launched in 2014, it provides service between the northern suburb of DeLand to the southern suburb of Poinciana. A large transfer station, the LYNX Central Station, currently handles Lynx bus transfers and was constructed to accommodate the large capacity expected from SunRail. Further development is underway to extend the service to multiple additional points south. Connections to the Orlando International Airport (MCO) and to other lines connecting to South Florida (All Aboard Florida) are being evaluated.\n\nAir\n\nThe Orlando Executive Airport is located east of the CBD. While technically not in downtown proper, the airport serves the downtown district.\n\nOrlando City Hall is located on Orange Avenue and South Street.\n\nThe Orange County Courthouse is located on north Orange Avenue.\n\nThe US District Court Middle District of Florida's courthouse is located at 401 West Central Boulevard.\n\nThe United States Postal Service downtown office is located at 51 East Jefferson Street.\n\n\n\n\n\nLoch Haven Park, north of downtown on Mills and Princeton Avenues, serves as the cultural center of Orlando and consists of the following:\n\nThe \"Cultural Park Master Plan\" published in 2009, details plans to expand Loch Haven Park to former USDA property located adjacent the park, and calling for additional cultural institutions to be housed onsite.\n\n\nMajor hotels in downtown Orlando include:\n\nDowntown is home to the Amway Center which hosts the Orlando Magic NBA team, the Orlando Solar Bears ECHL team, and the Orlando Predators Arena Football League team. The Florida Citrus Bowl in addition to being home of Orlando City Soccer Club for 2015 & 2016 also hosts The Capital One Bowl in addition to other events year round. Tinker Field is a historic ballpark adjacent to the Citrus Bowl.\n\n\nResulting from Orlando's reputation as a major international destination and many countries establishing embassies in the city, Orlando now has the second highest number of foreign consulates in Florida next to Miami.\n\nDowntown Orlando's skyline can be seen in the films Paper Towns, Passenger 57, Ernest Saves Christmas, D.A.R.Y.L., , Lethal Weapon 3 (doubled for Los Angeles), and \"Miami Connection\".\n\nSeven Mary Three's fourth studio album is entitled Orange Avenue.\n\nThe Triple Crown for Downtown, a construction initiative involving three high intensity public works projects, began in 2010.\n\n\nA more ambitious project planned for downtown calls for completely transforming the Orlando Centroplex, the home of the former Amway Arena, into a \"Creative Village\". The project is to be privately funded and plans call for satellite schools for the University of Central Florida and the University of Florida, of office space, residential apartment buildings, and a large central park with sporting facilities and an amphitheater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12617978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12617978", "title": "Dragons' Den (UK TV programme)", "text": "Dragons' Den (UK TV programme)\n\nDragons' Den is a British television programme, hosted by Evan Davis. The format of the show is owned by Sony Pictures Television and is based on the original Japanese programme, which has been sold around the world. The programme has been produced by BBC Manchester since its inception and was first broadcast on BBC Two on 4 January 2005.\n\nThe show allows several entrepreneurs an opportunity to present their varying business ideas to a panel of five wealthy investors, the \"Dragons\" of the show's title, and pitch for financial investment while offering a stake of the company in return.\n\nContestants have what they perceive to be a viable and potentially profitable business idea but lack funding, or are already operating their business but need additional funds for promotion or expansion. As part of their opening pitch, they are required to specify the amount of money they require from the Dragons. The rules stipulate that if they do not raise at least this amount from one or more Dragons, then they would leave with nothing. In exchange for the investment, the contestants offer equity in their business, the percentage of which is also stipulated at the beginning of the pitch. If the Dragons see potential in the business idea or product, negotiations then take place around the amount of equity on offer, with the contestant having the opportunity to negotiate further, accept any offers, or simply walk away. Dragons can also offer a percentage of the money requested if they do not wish to commit the full amount, leaving the other Dragons free to do the same. This can lead to the contestant receiving the financial backing of more than one Dragon, with the benefit of a broader range of expertise. However, for this to occur, the contestant usually has to agree to relinquish a larger share in their business than they had first planned.\n\nA Dragon who, having heard the pitch, does not wish to invest, must declare themselves \"out\", implying that they leave the discussion. (However, on one occasion in series 4, Peter Jones continued to question an entrepreneur after his own declaration.) This concluding phase may range from a few minutes if the Dragons don't perceive the business plan as credible, to much longer when complex conditions are negotiated. The Dragons often ridicule contestants, on grounds that vary widely, but especially for over-valuation of their respective enterprises.\n\nThe opening sequence was shot in Ancoats, Manchester, an area transformed by the Industrial Revolution which helped give the city its nickname Cottonopolis. The sequence features shots of Brunswick Mill, Murrays' Mills and McConnel & Kennedy mills - all three are Manchester's most famous cotton mills in production at the time of the Industrial Revolution and keeps in line with the programme's warehouse theme. The location at which the pitches are filmed has varied over the years. It was originally filmed inside a furniture depository in Stoke Newington. The production were forced to move after the first series owing to building work next door. For the second series shooting took place in a disused warehouse, Wool House. It was then that the first set was created by production designer Laurence Williams, requiring the construction of a section of the window wall and the staircase down to the lower floor. The owner of this warehouse converted it into flats necessitating a further move to Tanner Street for the next few series. Here another more extensive set was created including cutting a hole in the floor and again creating the stairs down to the lower floor. Building work required yet again a move to Pinewood Studios only two weeks before a series was due to be shot and the production designer had to create a complete set on the film stage including a staircase which descended down into the underfloor tank. After several more series were shot at Pinewood, the production was moved to the BBC's new home in Salford Quays at dock10, MediaCityUK. A brand new set was created for the move and was screened in the latter part of 2012 for Series 10.\n\nThe Space Project based in Gorton - Manchester was also used as a set to film a series of Dragons Den\n\n\n\n\nEpisode ratings from BARB.\n\n\"Where Are They Now?\" is a companion series to the main programme, often broadcast after each respective series, taking a look back at some of the show's success stories - and biggest failures - and finding out what the participants are up to six months on. The series began with a one-off two part special, broadcast on 21 and 28 December 2005, in which presenter Evan Davis reviewed the programme's success stories from series one and two, and looked at the entrepreneurs who received funds to market their ideas. Cameras followed Charles Ejogo, who planned to put umbrella vending machines in London Underground stations, jewellery designer Elizabeth Galton, magazine publisher Huw Gwyther and Rachel Lowe, whose London-based board game caught their eye. Following this, another one-off two part special was broadcast on 28 September – 8 October 2006. Later, two full series of the show were commissioned, with series one, of four episodes, being broadcast between 18 July and 2 August 2007.\n\nSeries two, of five episodes, each following a respective dragon and their investments, was broadcast between 17 September and 24 October 2010. Peter Jones' episode followed him meeting with Kirsty Henshaw, who made an emotional pitch in the Den when she came in with her frozen dessert business, and was determined to get her product on the supermarket shelves as soon as possible, and also meeting up with condiment king Levi Roots. Duncan Bannatyne's episode followed him as he travelled to the south of France to oversee his daughter's wedding, and then went back to work to follow up on some of his investments. Theo Paphitis' episode followed him as he took 90 employees to Greece for a week of team-building exercises, and also visited two companies he invested in to see how they were getting on. Series five, episode nine also featured at a look back at deals from the series, in a similar vein to \"Where Are They Now?\".\n\n\"Outside the Den\" takes a step back from the world of Dragons' Den, to take a personal look at the Dragons themselves, including personal and intimate interviews, a look behind their business credentials, and taking the cameras into their personal lives. Six episodes of the series have been produced - with the first set of five episodes airing between 27 October and 23 November 2008, and following Theo Paphitis, James Caan, Deborah Meaden, Peter Jones and Duncan Bannatyne in their own respective programmes. A further episode, focusing on new dragon Hilary Devey, was broadcast over three years later on 29 December 2011.\n\n\"The Best of Dragons' Den\" focuses on presenter Evan Davis taking a look back at the best and worst pitches from the past series of the show, as well as revealing some unseen pitches that were so bad, they didn't make it to broadcast, and talking candidly with the Dragons involved. Two series of the show were produced, the first accompanying series two, with three episodes being broadcast between 19 January and 2 February 2006, and the second accompanying series six, with three episodes being broadcast between 23 February and 9 March 2009.\n\n\"Dragons' Den: On Tour\" was a series of five episodes which aired between 6 September and 7 October 2009. Each episode follows the Dragons (James Caan, Deborah Meaden, Peter Jones, Theo Paphitis and Duncan Bannatyne) as they travel by bus around the United Kingdom to find out what some of the budding entrepreneurs who had appeared on the show have been up to since, including success stories, awful failures, and some very obvious missed opportunities.\n\n\"Dragons' Den: Online\" was a special, online version of the show, which follows the same format as the main show, but is presented by Dominic Byrne, and features Shaf Rasul and Julie Meyer as the Dragons. Instead of being set inside a Den, entrepreneurs pitch to the two Dragons via online video pitches, and subsequent interaction through webcam chat. The highest amount of money on offer is £50,000, which the Dragons can only individually invest in any one business. Episodes were posted weekly, for six weeks from 16 September 2009 to 7 October 2009, and viewers could participate by rating business plans before the two dragons offered their verdict.\n\nA number of one-off specials accompanying the broadcast of the main show have also been produced, often as Christmas specials or charity specials. The following eight programmes have been aired thus far:\n\nTwo episode of \"Dragons' Den: Pitches to Riches\" were presented by TV host Richard Osman and aired on 28 February and 31 December 2016. The show looked back on some of the most successful pitches in the den.\n\nSome contestants have gone on to reach the market with their products despite being turned down by the Dragons and have met with a range of success. Examples include hungryhouse.co.uk, a website for online ordering of home delivered takeaway food, \"Destination London\", a board game; the Tangle Teezer, a hairbrush designed to smooth knotted hair; Trunki, travel luggage designed for children; and the BarbeSkew, a rotisserie barbecue.\n\nIn Series 2, Danny Bamping accepted an offer of £100,000 for 30% of his company Bedlam Puzzles, offered in a joint deal with both Rachel Elnaugh and Theo Paphitis investing, but rejected it after the show, opting to get a bank loan instead, claiming that he had a stronger vision for the company than either of his investors. His strategy was successful, as the show generated enough publicity to boost online sales of his Bedlam cube, increasing from his then current sales tally of 23 to 4,500 sales on the days after the show's airing.\n\nIn Series 3, Fenella Lindsell and Lara Goodbody rejected an offer of £200,000 for 30% from Richard Farleigh, to invest in their Yogabugs workout company. They also rejected an offer of £100,000 for 15% of the business made by Peter Jones, in a joint deal with Farleigh, and left the den without investment, stating their reason to be that they believed the company was worth more than what the dragons valued it at. Since then, the pair have gone on to build a franchise operation, with over 150 stores in the UK selling the product. Tamlyn Thompson rejected Richard Farleigh's offer of 50% for ID Scan Biometric, the company was worth over 2 million in 2016.\n\nIn Series 6, Episode 2 - an entrepreneur made history on the show. Up to this point, it was the biggest offer ever made in the series and he said No. The company was called Diamond Geezer - an online company selling a wide range of jewellery online. They offered him a staggering £255k for 40% of his business. He was only willing to meet them at 30% but no deal could be reached.\n\nIn Series 10, father and son team Michael and Joe Smith rejected an offer of £50,000 for 50% of their Wheelbarrow Accessory company, offered by Duncan Bannatyne, and again rejected an offer for the same amount of money and equity, but split down the middle, with Duncan and Hilary Devey each bringing £25,000 and asking for 25%. The pair valued their company at £500,000, and Michael failed to deny claims that he was more interested in the money than help from an investor, when challenged by Deborah Meaden. Also in series 10, Dustin Toland rejected an offer of £100,000 from both Deborah Meaden and Theo Paphitis for 45% of his company Gigwam, a new tent system for outdoor events. He revealed the maximum amount of equity he would be prepared to give away was 25%, and subsequently declined. In episode 8, A to E Training & Solutions Ltd turned down an offer for the full £50,000 from Duncan Bannatyne for 32% of their resuscitation and life support business. The trio felt that the equity asked for was too great and left the Den with nothing.\n\nIn Series 11, Duncan Bannatyne offered £50,000 to Linkee Ltd for 40% of its board game business, but the trio behind the company felt it was too great a percentage and were unable to negotiate with Bannatyne, and so turned him down. Also in series 11, Deborah Meaden offered Tim Morgan £100,000 for 15% of his Mountain Trike Company. However, the maximum he and his shareholders had already agreed to give away was 5%, and so he had to turn her down. Also in Series 11, husband and wife team Roger and Leslie rejected a combined offer from Peter Jones and Duncan Bannatyne of 50% of their wool bedding company Baavet, for £130,000. In the final episode of Series 11, after accepting Peter Jones and Deborah Meaden's offer of £50,000 for 40% (later dropping to 30%) of his company Bobo Buddies, James Roupell turned the deal down after filming. Instead, he found the financial help he required elsewhere, without giving up any equity of his company.\n\nIn series 12, Daniel and Mat of Pure Pet Food turned down both Deborah Meaden and Kelly Hoppen's offers of £40,000 for 30% and 20% respectively, as they thought the equity levels being asked for were too high. Also in series 12, owner of gourmet marshmallow company Mallow & Marsh,\nHarriet Pleydell-Bouverie, turned down both Peter Jones and Deborah Meaden who wanted 40% and 33⅓% of the company respectively in exchange for £65,000 (although Peter offered her £80,000), as she felt that would be undervaluing the company. In Episode 10, Cally Russell rejected Peter Jones' offer of £75,000 for 20% of his company Mallzee, a mobile shopping app, even after Peter offered to drop to 15% once investment was repaid.\n\nIn series 13, Ellen Green, company director of the Blue Badge Company, declined Touker Suleyman's offer of £70,000 for 35% of her company, as it was \"simply too high\" for her. Also in series 13 Jo Hilditch rejected Peter Jones' offer of £50,000 for 30% of her wine-making company, British Cassis, as it was over her upper limit of 25% on advice from her accountant. In episode 10 of the same series, Roy Fitter rejected Peter Jones' offer of £80,000 for 30% of his company, Ram Training Ltd, a horror events company. In episode 13, Yann Morvan and Richard Lee rejected Peter Jones and Nick Jenkins offer of £75,000 for 30% of their portable drumming business Aerodrums, as the maximum amount of equity they were prepared to give away was 20%.\n\nIn series 14, Sam Coley and Steve Pearce, co-founders of TickX, the event and ticketing search engine, rejected offers of £75,000 from Nick Jenkins and Peter Jones for 20% equity and one from Touker Suleyman for 15% as they felt the dragons had undervalued the company. Since filming, the duo went on to raise £750,000 through 24Haymarket and have launched the world's first Facebook Messenger chatbot for live events.\n\nAlthough the BBC has never made any secret of deals that succeeded or fell through, usually offering a follow up in the final episode of the series, in September 2006 an investigation by the \"Sunday Mirror\" newspaper criticised the show, reporting that most of the deals were unfulfilled after the programmes were shot.\n\nThe article claimed that the Dragons either pulled out of the deals over minor technicalities, deliberately offered heavily unfavourable terms to the entrepreneurs in an effort to make them withdraw, or simply broke off all contact with them after the recording. The Dragons however defended their record, blaming the failures on the entrepreneurs themselves who were dishonest about their products, with Duncan Bannatyne stating: \"We don't hand over money to people who don't tell the truth.\", while Theo Paphitis added: \"I kept up my end of the bargain. The show is not about a cash prize, it is about us pledging to invest. But people must tell the truth. Simple.\"\n\nA BBC spokesman said: \"After the initial agreement is made on camera, both parties enter a period of due diligence. Sometimes during this period the deals fall through.\"\n\nIn February 2015, \"The Sunday Telegraph\" newspaper published a report that revealed that half of \"Dragons' Den\" investments fall through after the show once the cameras stop rolling.\n\nThe study, carried out by Tiger Mobiles, who unsuccessfully applied to appear on the show in 2008, looked in depth at all 143 businesses that won cash on the show between series 1 and 11, revealing just £5.8m of the £13m pledged was ever invested.\n\nWhen quizzed about the numbers, Deborah Meaden defended her position informing the \"Telegraph\": \"I've had entrepreneurs with extremely unfortunate health issues, patent issues, and two or three silences where I never hear from them again.\" Meaden also added that \"The world explodes for businesses after Dragons’ Den, they get offered better deals in some cases, or think they don’t need the Dragons. But what they find when the publicity dies down is that they still need help running the business.\"\n\nFrom Series 1 to 11 the research uncovered:\n\n\nDan Forster, who compiled the research for Tiger Mobiles, claimed that the issue was less about the structure of deals and more about the kind of companies that the BBC invites to take part in the show. \"The problem lies with the BBC, who, in a bid to keep the viewer count high, have turned the show into a contrived affair that’s more about viewer entertainment than genuine business success. They tend to pick pitchers who are TV-friendly rather than those who are investible with a healthy balance sheet.\" \n\nA BBC spokesman commented on Forster's claims, saying: \"We are proud of our record of achieving investment offers in the den and we look into every detail of a business before they are offered a slot on the show. The BBC plays no role in the deal after recording, and we accept that it is typical for some angel investments to fall down at the due diligence stage.\" \n\nAfter only one series of the programme, Simon Woodroffe left the panel. Woodroffe stated that the reason behind his departure was \"The show became a battle of egos — not a forum for business innovation. The thing to remember was that when you walk up the stairs to pitch, it’s not five people necessarily thinking 'How am I going to be able to make an investment here?', they’re also thinking: 'Am I going to be the star of this next little piece?'. That's not how I was told the show would go down.\"\n\nShortly before the launch of the second series in 2005, Rachel Elnaugh's company Red Letter Days went into administration and its remaining assets were bought by fellow dragons Peter Jones and Theo Paphitis. Although Elnaugh was at the helm before and at the time of the company's failure, she blamed the problems on the actions of the last CEO whom she appointed in 2002, whilst she took a non-executive role to have her fourth child. Following making only five investments over the course of two series, as a result of disputes with various Dragons, and the continuing uncomfortable position of the BBC allowing a perceived \"failed\" business person to continue investing on the show, she agreed to leave the \"Dragons' Den\" panel.\n\nShortly after the conclusion of the second series in 2005, Doug Richard announced his departure from the show. Richard stated in an interview that his departure was due to \"six hours of TV taking six weeks to film\", and not being able to split his time between filming and running all of his businesses.\n\nIt was announced on 18 May 2007 that Richard Farleigh had been dropped from the series. The \"Daily Mail\" suggested that this might have been in order to have a new Dragon from an ethnic minority. Farleigh said, \"It would be disappointing if that was the reason - rather than anything fundamental - if it was because I was the wrong colour. I don't know why this has happened and I am very disappointed and bemused - I wasn't expecting it because all the feedback I got was very positive. I had even moved back to the UK to focus on commitments for the show. I am gutted that I have not been invited back.\" The suggestions in the \"Daily Mail\" report were rejected by the BBC who said the new Dragon would be chosen by their \"business credentials\" and not ethnicity. A BBC spokesman said it was normal that the show sometimes changed its team. Farleigh's replacement was the British-Pakistani businessman James Caan.\n\nIn April 2010, the \"Daily Mail\" reported that James Caan and Duncan Bannatyne were involved in a 'bitter row' over tax. Bannatyne claimed Pakistan-born Caan had an 'unfair' business advantage due to his non-domiciled tax status. He complained that, because Caan does not pay UK tax on his overseas earnings, he has more money to invest in his UK ventures. Caan told the London \"Evening Standard\": \"I do not apologise for my country of origin, Pakistan.\" He also said he could not invest with anyone who had a criminal record - a reference to Bannatyne's having served a sentence in military prison when he was a teenager in the Royal Navy. Bannatyne replied that Caan was 'playing the race card' and 'personalising the whole thing', and accused him of implying he was racist. Only days before the filming of series 8, Bannatyne went on to Twitter, pointing out that Caan is chairman of the \"Big Issue\", which employs sellers with criminal pasts, and asking how they could now work with their chief. He brought the name of the \"Big Issue\" founder into the row by asking: 'Did John Bird know about James Caan's view on ex-prisoners when he gave him the chairman's role?' Further fanning the flames for Caan was a well publicised critique of accusations that he offered to buy a baby from a family in Pakistan. On 7 January 2011, the BBC announced James Caan had quit the \"Dragons' Den\" panel. The BBC announced regret and sorrow over the exit and thanked him for his efforts over his four series in the show. Clive Morgan of \"The Daily Telegraph\" criticised his departure, stating his exit was the show's loss and would not be the same without him. He was replaced by Hilary Devey in February 2011.\n\nIn June 2012, it was announced that after only two series in the show, Hilary Devey would be departing the show to front her own business series for Channel 4. She appeared in the tenth series which aired in Autumn 2012. Devey was replaced by Kelly Hoppen for the eleventh series in 2013.\n\nOn 7 February 2013, Theo Paphitis said that he would be leaving \"Dragons' Den\" due to other commitments. Paphitis was replaced by Piers Linney from Series 11 onwards.\n\nLinney announced that he would be departing the show at the end of series twelve, in order to focus on various other projects and work related to enterprise, diversity and inclusion, including his not-for-profit digital platform, workinsight.org\n\nOn 11 August 2013, Hoppen became one of the new dragons on BBC Two's \"Dragons' Den\" following the departure of Hilary Devey. On 23 January 2015, she announced her departure from the show after two series.\n\nIt was announced in July 2014 that, due to \"other business commitments\", Bannatyne would be departing from the show. His final appearance was in the last episode of series 12, in which he made an investment jointly with Peter Jones in a cash-and-carry business seeking finance for a new sports drink. This leaves Jones as the only remaining original Dragon.\n\nWillingham departed the show on 31 January 2017 after 2 series, confirming that she had decided to take a year out travelling with her family and was unable to take part in the programme.\n\nJenkins confirmed he was leaving on 31 January 2017 alongside Sarah Willingham, also after 2 series. On the decision, he commented that he was leaving the den to concentrate on his educational technology businesses.\n\nDuncan Bannatyne appeared as himself in a recurring sketch in the ITV television show \"Al Murray's Multiple Personality Disorder\" titled \"Duncan's Den\", a parody of \"Dragons' Den\", where Duncan is the only Dragon. Al Murray plays the role of Evan Davis, and in each successive sketch there is only one applicant, the hopelessly nervous and commercially inept, recent divorcee Carole Price, played by Laura Solon.\n\nKayvan Novak created a parody of the show called \"Lizard's Lair\" for his character Terry Tibbs on an episode of his show \"Facejacker\" where unsuspecting entrepreneurs were led to believe they could receive an investment from Terry in a very similar style to \"Dragons' Den\".\n\nPeter Jones, Deborah Meaden, and Duncan Bannatyne appear as themselves in a satirical dream sequence in a series 6 episode titled \"Conned Out of Luck\" of the BBC show, \"Hustle\".\n\nThe sketch show \"Harry & Paul\" has featured a series of parodies by Harry Enfield and Paul Whitehouse, where through careful editing the pair portray all the characters, including Davis (Whitehouse), the contestants unsuccessfully pitching various bizarre ideas (e.g. a 'kitten stomper' device) and a parodied cast of the Dragons. The emphasis is particularly on the entrepreneurs' names (e.g. 'Duncan Guillotine') and personalities (Meaden is simply 'The Grumpy Woman' – Enfield in drag). In one sketch parodying the banking crisis, Enfield's old character Tim Nice-But-Dim made an appearance and was revealed to be \"obviously\" the brother of 'Peter Jones (John Lewis)'. Enfield and Whitehouse brought back their portrayals of the characters for three Comic Relief sketches, where they play Victorian counterparts of the Dragons, and in each sketch, the entrepreneurs are in fact played by the actual Dragons presenting a modern item as an invention, with Jones presenting the toothbrush, Bannatyne and Caan presenting the toilet (or 'the Crapper'), and Meaden and Paphitis presenting the television.\n\n\"Dead Ringers\" parodied the show with strange investments such as a tramp wanting investment in tea and a sketch where a man wants £100,000 and his pitch is a gun. They also parodied Dragon responses with Rachel Elnaugh seeing a product which turns base metal to gold and saying \"How do you make any money out of this?\".\n\nThe talkSPORT weekday afternoon show presented by Paul Hawksbee and Andy Jacobs has recently begun a weekly spoof slot wherein \"Hilary Devey\" (Jacobs) makes obvious comments to (absent) sporting personalities who have recently been in the news for making poor decisions. These comments usually deride said personality, ending with the Dragons' common final phrase, \"I'm out!\"\n\nThe British sitcom \"The IT Crowd\" features a brief parody of the show in episode 5 of series 2.\n\nRicky Gervais referenced the show and impersonated Evan Davis and Duncan Bannatyne in his live stand-up show \"Fame\". Gervais had also previously performed a sketch in the show \"Extras\", which featured the current line-up of Dragons.\n\nDisney Channel's \"I Didn't Do It\" based their 5th episode on the concept featuring a show called \"Boardroom Barracudas\" where the characters demo their vegetable flavor enhancer.\n\nPeter Jones, Deborah Meaden, Nick Jenkins, Touker Suleyman and Sarah Willingham appeared as themselves in the first episode of the mockumentary series \"People Just Do Nothing\" when the protagonists visit the Deagons' Den to seek funding for their illegal pirate radio station. Jenkins offers them £50 to get out of the room.\n\nIn the summer of 2015, \"The Scott Mills Show\" on BBC Radio 1 began a segment known as 'Instant Dragon's Den', where a caller is put through to the personal phone of Deborah Meaden, one of the TV show's current Dragons, with the caller then pitching their idea to Meaden, who always starts by asking how the caller got her number.\n\nThe first two series of the show are available to buy on DVD. It is unknown whether the remaining series of the show will also be released.\n\n"}
{"id": "56043447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56043447", "title": "Egypt Defence Expo", "text": "Egypt Defence Expo\n\nThe Egypt Defence Expo, or EDEX, is the first international defence exhibition in Egypt, covering air, land and sea weapons technologies. The business is set to conduct at the 2018 EDEX at the Egypt International Exhibition Center in the city of New Cairo. The exhibition will be held every two years, Egypt plans to make EDEX the number one event in the Middle East region.\n\nDuring a press conference in Cairo in December 2017, the Egyptian Armed Forces announced that Egypt will host a major international defence exhibition in 2018, under the name of Egypt Defence Expo (EDEX), bringing together key defence and security players from the region and across the world. The event will also offer the Egyptian companies a platform to showcase their military hardware and services to other world militaries.\n\nThe exhibition is being organised by Clarion Events Defence and Security, in cooperation with the Egyptian Armed Forces which will provide all the necessary facilities to ensure its success.\n\nThe event is set to take place at the new Egypt International Exhibition Center established in New Cairo by the Armed Forces in December 2017. It is considered the largest international exhibition center in Egypt covering an area of 311,000 square meters. The facilities are built on 23% of the overall area.\n\nEgypt Defence Expo 2018 will be held on 3–5 December 2018. Over 300 international defence and security manufacturers are expected to take part as exhibitors, and over 10,000 visitors are expected to attend the exhibition across three days. The exhibition will also feature a conference program and a fully hosted international military VIP Delegation Programme.\n"}
{"id": "6160807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6160807", "title": "Electrosynthesis", "text": "Electrosynthesis\n\nElectrosynthesis in chemistry is the synthesis of chemical compounds in an electrochemical cell. The main advantage of electrosynthesis over an ordinary redox reaction is selectivity and yield which result from control of the cell potential. Electrosynthesis is actively studied as a science and also has industrial applications. Electrooxidation has potential for wastewater treatment as well.\n\nThe basic setup in electrosynthesis is a galvanic cell, a potentiostat and two electrodes. Typical solvent and electrolyte combinations minimizes electrical resistance. Protic conditions often use alcohol-water or dioxane-water solvent mixtures with an electrolyte such as a soluble salt, acid or base. Aprotic conditions often use an organic solvent such as acetonitrile or dichloromethane with electrolytes such as lithium perchlorate or tetrabutylammonium salts. The choice of electrodes with respect to their composition and surface area can be decisive. For example, in aqueous conditions the competing reactions in the cell are the formation of oxygen at the anode and hydrogen at the cathode. In this case a graphite anode and lead cathode could be used effectively because of their high overpotentials for oxygen and hydrogen formation respectively. Many other materials can be used as electrodes. Other examples include platinum, magnesium, mercury (as a liquid pool in the reactor), stainless steel or reticulated vitreous carbon. Some reactions use a sacrificial electrode thatis consumed during the reaction like zinc or lead. Cell designs can be undivided cell or divided cell type. In divided cells the cathode and anode chambers are separated with a semiporous membrane. Common membrane materials include sintered glass, porous porcelain, polytetrafluoroethene or polypropylene. The purpose of the divided cell is to permit the diffusion of ions while restricting the flow of the products and reactants. This separation simplifies workup. An example of a reaction requiring a divided cell is the reduction of nitrobenzene to phenylhydroxylamine, where the latter chemical is susceptible to oxidation at the anode.\n\nOrganic oxidations take place at the anode. Compounds are reduced at the cathode. Radical intermediates are often invoked. The initial reaction takes place at the surface of the electrode and then the intermediates diffuse into the solution where they participate in secondary reactions.\n\nThe yield of an electrosynthesis is expressed both in terms the chemical yield and current efficiency. Current efficiency is the ratio of Coulombs consumed in forming the products to the total number of Coulombs passed through the cell. Side reactions decrease the current efficiency.\n\nThe potential drop between the electrodes determines the rate constant of the reaction. Electrosynthesis is carried out with either constant potential or constant current. The reason one chooses one over the other is due to a trade off of ease of experimental conditions versus current efficiency. Constant potential uses current more efficiently because the current in the cell decreases with time due to the depletion of the substrate around the working electrode (stirring is usually necessary to decrease the diffusion layer around the electrode). This is not the case under constant current conditions however. Instead as the substrate's concentration decreases the potential across the cell increases in order to maintain the fixed reaction rate. This consumes current in side reactions produced outside the target voltage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nand the reduction of 2-methoxynaphthalene: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn organofluorine chemistry, many perfluorinated compounds are prepared by electrochemical synthesis, which is conducted in liquid HF at voltages near 5–6 V using Ni anodes. The method was invented in the 1930s. Amines, alcohols, carboxylic acids, and sulfonic acids are converted to the perfluorinated derivatives using this technology. A solution or suspension of the hydrocarbon in hydrogen fluoride is electrolyzed at 5–6 V to produce high yields of the perfluorinated product.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55462108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55462108", "title": "Employer Reference Number", "text": "Employer Reference Number\n\nAn Employer Reference Number (ERN) or Employer PAYE Reference is a unique reference number issued in the UK by HMRC to an employer. Every organisation operating a Pay as you Earn (PAYE) schene is allocated an ERN, a unique set of letters and numbers used by HMRC (and others) to identify each employer, consisting of a three-digit HMRC office number and a reference number unique to each business.\n\nThe Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates insurance companies in the UK, requires insurers and brokers to obtain the ERN from clients whom they are insuring or for whom they are arranging insurance for Employers' Liability, and to state the ERN in their Employers' Liability Register. ERN's are also used by the Employers' Liability Tracing Office, an independent industry body recognized by the FCA, who can assist employees to find their former employer's Employers' Liability Insurance provider if they need to make a claim for injury or illness incurred at work.\n"}
{"id": "23945714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23945714", "title": "Erin Arvedlund", "text": "Erin Arvedlund\n\nErin E. Arvedlund is a financial journalist who has written for \"Barron's\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", the \"Moscow Times\", \"The New York Times\", TheStreet.com, and Portfolio.com. On Feb. 1, 2011, her \"Your Money\" column debuted in The Philadelphia Inquirer. \n\nOn May 7, 2001, \"Barron's\" published her article \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell: Bernie Madoff Attracts Skeptics in 2001\". This was only the second investigative article, following closely on Michael Ocrant’s May 1, 2001 article in industry publication \"MARHedge\", to question Bernard Madoff's scheme, his demand for investor secrecy and his \"enviably steady gains\".\n\nWhen the SEC finally investigated Madoff, after the December 2008 failure of his multi-billion dollar scheme, its Exhibit 104 belatedly mentions the Ocrant and Arvedlund articles:\n\nArvedlund's father was a money manager in Wilmington, Delaware, where she was raised. She graduated from Ursuline Academy in 1984 and Archmere Academy in 1988, both in Wilmington. She attended Tufts University before starting her career at Dow Jones News Service. She lives in Philadelphia.\n\nArvedlund's first book, \"Too Good to be True: The Rise and Fall of Bernie Madoff\", was published in August, 2009. This was followed, in June, 2010, by \"The Club No One Wanted to Join - Madoff Victims in Their Own Words\", which she edited from the stories told by Madoff's victims. Arvedlund also wrote a book on the Libor scandal, \"Open Secret: The Global Banking Conspiracy That Swindled Investors Out of Billions\", published in September, 2014, covering how the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor), a primary benchmark for short-term interest rates around the world, had been manipulated by major banks across the world.\n"}
{"id": "41669016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41669016", "title": "Fundamental Analysis Software", "text": "Fundamental Analysis Software\n\nFundamental analysis software automates analysis that supports fundamental analysts in their review of a company's financial statements and valuation.\n\nThe following are the most common features of fundamental analysis applications.\n\nEnables traders to test fundamental analysis strategies or algorithms to see what kind of return they would have achieved if they had invested based on that strategy or algorithm in the past. Backtest results will typically display total and annualized returns compared to a benchmark such as the S&P 500. In addition to returns, backtest results will also display volatility statistics such as average beta or maximum drawdown.\n\nStock scanning, or screening, is the most common feature of fundamental analysis software. Scanners enable users to 'scan' the market, be it stocks, options, currencies etc., to identify investment opportunities that meet a user's specific investment criteria. Using a fundamental analysis scanner, a user could, for example, scan the market to identify stocks with below industry average PE Ratios and above industry average sales growth.\n\nAlerts are a common feature of fundamental analysis software. Alerts will typically notify the investor to buy or sell a stock, or notify an investor when a stock enters or exits his/her saved strategy. When alert conditions are met, a notification is typically communicated via an on screen pop up or sent as an email.\n\nFundamental analysis software is typically used with end of day (EOD), delayed or real time data feeds. EOD data feeds provide the end of day close, open, high, and low price for the given equity and is typically updated once a day at market close. Delayed data is typically delayed 15 to 30 minutes depending on the exchange and is the most commonly used data feed type. Real time data feeds provide tick by tick 'real time' data.\n\nMost fundamental analysis software includes built in strategies that have been validated with backtesting to give positive returns on average. Some examples of built in strategies include: Stock Investor Pro's IBD Stable 70 or Equities Lab's Dividend Champions. Users will typically find a built in strategy that aligns with their interests and investment style then follow the strategy to keep up with stocks that pass the strategy.\n\nSome fundamental analysis software can be integrated with brokerage platforms to enable traders to place trades, or to update the users portfolio with what is actually held in the brokerage account.\n"}
{"id": "32183112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32183112", "title": "Gianluca Comin", "text": "Gianluca Comin\n\nGianluca Comin (Udine, 2 April 1963) is the founder of Comin & Partners, a Communication and Public Relations company, focused in government affairs, communication, media relations and crisis communication. Since January 2016 he is also Board member of the Biennale di Venezia.\n\nPreviously, until June 2014, he was Director of External Relations of Enel Group. and Board's member of Endesa sa., a Spanish electricity Company that is part of the Enel Group.\n\nGianluca Comin started his professional career in 1986 as a journalist at the Rome office of the daily paper “Il Gazzettino”. Until 1997, he reported about politics from Rome and in 1998 he became Head of the Press Office of the Ministry of Public Works and spokesman for the Minister.\n\nIn 1999 Comin was appointed Director of External Relations and bureau chief at the Montedison S.p.A. Rome office, where he was in charge of communication for the IPO of Compart Montedison, of Compart Burgo, of Falck-Sondel at Compart-Montedison, of Fiat-Edf at Compart Montedison. At that time he was also managing and coordinating relations with Italian and EU institutional authorities.\n\nIn September 2001 he was named Head of Communication and Media Relations at Telecom Italia. His most significant activities included managing relations with the national and international media for the various companies of the Telecom Italia Group and coordinating of the corporate-financial press offices, Domestic Wireline, Tim, Seat Group, It Telecom, and Telespazio press offices.\n\nIn 2002 he moved to Enel as Director of Communications in charge of advertising, media relations, events, internal communications, corporate identity, relations with the associations and corporate social responsibility.\n\nComin, who is a professional journalist, is visiting professor at LUISS University (Communication strategy and advertising) and lecturer at several universities and institutions including Bocconi University and CSM (Consiglio Superiore della Magistratura – Superior Council of Magistracy).\n\nHe was member of the National Council of Confindustria and managing director of Enel Foundation and Enel Cuore. Former President of FERPI (the Italian Association of Public Relations), now he is member of the Executive Board. Former editor in chief of Oxygen and author of \"2030 La tempesta perfetta\", 2012, Rizzoli.\n\nHe has also been a member of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage Communication Committee and of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in charge of selecting tender winners for integrated communication projects for Southern Italy, a board member of Syremont Spa (Montedison Group Company), a Member of the Committee to inform on the 2000 Jubilee. Moreover, he participated in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and CCISS advisory Committee (Information on traffic Coordination Centre). In 2016 and 2017 he was a member of the Scientific Committee of the Corporate Art Awards organized by pptArt.\n\nGianluca Comin is the author of the following publications: \n"}
{"id": "51997746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51997746", "title": "High seas fisheries management", "text": "High seas fisheries management\n\nHigh Seas Fisheries Management is management of fisheries outside of global exclusive economic zones or Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "32274731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32274731", "title": "Horst Paulmann", "text": "Horst Paulmann\n\nHorst Paulmann Kemna (born 22 March 1935) is a German-Chilean billionaire entrepreneur. He is founder and chairman of Cencosud, the largest retail chain in Chile and the third largest in Latin America. According to \"Forbes\", his fortune is estimated at US$4.8 billion, and the second richest man in Chile.\n\nIn 1946, Horst Paulmann and his family, consisting of his parents and seven siblings, emigrated from Germany after the end of World War II. They crossed the Alps towards Italy, continued on to Argentina in 1948, and finally to Chile in 1950.\n\nAt the age of 13, Paulmann worked as a telephone operator in Buenos Aires and later worked making wooden toys. His family settled in the city of Temuco in the south of Chile, and his father got a position as a franchisee at Club Alemán and at Club de La Unión. In 1952, Paulmann's family bought a local restaurant called Las Brisas and they soon transformed it into a supermarket. Since then and after the death of his father, Horst and his brother Jürgen Paulmann built a series of supermarket chains, beginning with the first hypermarket, located on Av. Kennedy. It measured 4,000 square meters and would become the foundation of the holding company Cencosud.\n\nCencosud was founded by Horst Paulmann on 10 November 1978 when he assumed the role of CEO and chairman. Cencosud employs more than 150,000 people in Chile, Argentina, Colombia, Brazil and Peru, where it operates its supermarket chains (such as Jumbo, Santa Isabel, Disco, Vea, Gbarbosa, Prezunic, Bretas, Perini, Wong and ); department stores (such as París and Johnson's); home improvement stores (such as Easy and Blaisten); commercial centers and credit stores (with over 4.3 million credit cards issued). \n\nOne of his projects is the complex Costanera Center, which includes the tallest tower in South America, measuring 300 meters, a six story mall, a hotel, and office towers.\n\nIn 2004, Cencosud began trading its shares on the Santiago Stock Exchange, and on the NYSE starting in 2011. The Paulmann family is the main shareholder of Cencosud. Manfred, Peter and Heike Paulmann Koepfer have represented Cencosud in its directory and are part of the agreement of the board of directors, which was formed for the succession of the president in the conduct of the company.\n\nPaulmann is the president of the Argentina–Chile Permanent Binational Business Board and a member of Argentine Business Association. In the past, he was director of the Chilean–German Chamber of Commerce and the Chilean Chamber of Commerce.\n\n\nHe had three children with Helga Koepfer: Manfred, Peter and Heike.\n\n"}
{"id": "43507478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43507478", "title": "Hybrid transactional/analytical processing (HTAP)", "text": "Hybrid transactional/analytical processing (HTAP)\n\nHybrid transaction/analytical processing (HTAP), a term created by Gartner Inc. – an information technology research and advisory company. As defined by Gartner: Hybrid transaction/analytical processing (HTAP) is an emerging application architecture that \"breaks the wall\" between transaction processing and analytics. It enables more informed and \"in business real time\" decision making. \n\nIn the 1960s, computer use in the business sector began with payroll transactions and later included tasks in areas such as accounting and billing. At that time, users entered data, and the system processed it at a later time. Further development of instantaneous data processing, or online transaction processing (OLTP), led to widespread OLTP use in government and business-sector information systems.\n\nOLAP covers the analytical processing involved in creating, synthesizing, and managing data. With greater data demands among businesses, OLAP also has evolved. To meet the needs of applications, both technologies are dependent on their own systems and distinct architectures. As a result of the complexity in the information architecture and infrastructure of both OLTP and OLAP systems, data analysis is delayed.\n\nThere are various interpretations of HTAP other than Gartner's original definition; an \"emerging architecture\". These interpretations suggest different advantages, one being a database functionality. Recent advances in research, hardware, OLTP and OLAP capabilities, in-memory technologies, scalable transactional management and products enable transactional processing and analytics, or HTAP, to operate on the same database.\n\nHowever, Gartner's most recent reports suggest broader advantages than a single unified database can offer. Traditional application architectures separated transactional and analytical systems. Digital business, and the need to respond to business moments, means that using \"after the fact\" analysis is no longer adequate. Business moments are transient opportunities that must be exploited in real time. If an organization is unable to recognize and/or respond quickly to a business moment by taking fast and well-informed decisions, then some other organization will, resulting in a missed opportunity (or a new business threat). HTAP allows advanced analytics to be run in real time on \"in flight\" transaction data, providing an architecture that empowers users to respond more effectively to business moments.\n\nThe main technical challenges for an HTAP database are how to be efficient both for operational (many small transactions with a high fraction of updates) and analytical workloads (large and complex queries traversing large number of rows) on the same database system and how to prevent the interference of the analytical queries over the operational workload.\n\nHTAP solves the issue of analytic latency in several ways, including eliminating the need for multiple copies of the same data and the requirement for data to be offloaded from operational databases to data warehouses via ETL processes.\n\nMost HTAP applications has been enabled by in-memory technologies that can process a high volume of transactions and offer features such as forecasting and simulations. New HTAP technologies bring scalable transactional processing and do not need to rely on keeping the whole database in-memory. HTAP has the potential to change the way organizations do business by offering immediate business decision-making capabilities based on live and sophisticated analytics of large volumes of data. Government and business leaders can be informed of real-time issues, outcomes, and trends that necessitate action, such as in the areas of public safety, risk management, and fraud detection.\n\nSome challenges for HTAP include limited industry experience and skills, as well as undefined best practices.\n\nHTAP functionality is offered by database companies, such as Alibaba DRDS, TiDB, Hubble, ArangoDB, Aerospike, Apache Ignite/GridGain In-Memory Data Fabric, IBM IBM_Db2 IDAA, InterSystems, Kdb+, Microsoft SQL Server, Neo4j, Oracle 12c In-Memory, SAP HANA, MemSQL, MongoDB, VoltDB, NuoDB, OrientDB, DataStax, eXtremeDB, Splice Machine, EsgynDB, Cloud Spanner, HarperDB and BlobCity.\n"}
{"id": "4915128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4915128", "title": "IDRO Group", "text": "IDRO Group\n\nThe Industrial Development & Renovation Organization of Iran (IDRO) known as IDRO Group was established in 1967 in Iran. IDRO Group is one of the largest companies in Iran. It is also one of the largest conglomerates in Asia. IDRO's objective is to develop Iran's industry sector and to accelerate the industrialization process of the country and to export Iranian products worldwide. Today, IDRO owns 117 subsidiaries and affiliated companies both domestically as well as internationally.\n\nIn the course of its 40 years of activity, IDRO has gradually become a major shareholder of some key industries in Iran. In recent years and in accordance with the country's privatization policy, IDRO has made great efforts to privatize its affiliated companies. While carrying on its privatization policies and lessening its role as a holding company, IDRO intends to concentrate on its prime missions and to turn into an industrial development agency.\nIDRO has focused its activities on the following areas in order to materialize such strategy and to expedite the industrial development of Iran:\n\n\nIDRO had privatized 140 of its companies worth about 2,000 billion rials ($200 million) in the past. The organization will offer shares of 150 industrial units to private investors by March 2010. In 2009, 290 companies were under the control of the IDRO.\n\nThis is a list of IDRO's main subsidiaries (as of 2008):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12552208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12552208", "title": "IMRB International", "text": "IMRB International\n\nKANTAR IMRB (formerly IMRB International) is a market research, survey and business consultancy firm. Headquartered in Mumbai, India with operations in over 15 countries IMRB is a part of the Kantar Group, WPP’s research, insights, and consultancy network.\n\nEstablished in 1970, KANTAR IMRB was modeled on the lines of the British Market Research Bureau. IMRB provides market research and insights across South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa with specialist divisions in quantitative, qualitative, media, retail, industrial, customer satisfaction, business to business and social and rural research. KANTAR IMRB’s syndicated research offerings include the MarketPulse, the National Food Survey, Web Audience Measurement (WAM), ITops, and I-Cube reports.\n\nWith over 1200 employees, KANTAR IMRB is one of the largest providers of market research in India in an industry estimated to be worth a minimum of $ 187 million. As the oldest extant market research company in India, KANTAR IMRB has been responsible for establishing the first and only household panel, the first television audience measurement system and the first radio panel in the country and has played a key role in the development of market research in India. It has been rated the 'Best Market Research Company' by industry body Market Research Society of India (MRSI) for several years.\n\nKANTAR IMRB's specialised areas are consumer markets, industrial marketing, business to business marketing, social marketing, and rural marketing.\n\nIMRB was established in 1970 to provide market research services to the clients of Hindustan Thompson Associates. Early clients included fast-moving consumer goods companies such as Unilever, ITC, Pond’s, and Horlicks. The initial decade saw rapid expansion into new areas of business, with the first qualitative study being conducted by the end of the decade, and IMRB pioneering psephology in India through an ongoing series of opinion poll surveys for \"India Today\", that successfully predicted Congress’ victory in the 1980 general election.\n\nSubsequent decades saw the development of new verticals, with the creation of specialized units and the offering of several syndicated research products. IMRB also played an important role in the standardization of market research practice in India, and was responsible for the creation in 1983 of the Socio-Economic Classification system, a method now used across India to define target audiences. In 1987, as a founder member of the MRSI, it helped evolve industry wide codes of conduct, and standards for survey data collection that are still in use today.\n\nWith the global acquisition of J. Walter Thompson by Sir Martin Sorrell in 1987, IMRB became a constituent of WPP and continued its pace of growth, growing over 25% per annum through the 1990s under the leadership of Ramesh Thadani. The 1990s saw the creation of specialized units focusing on development research, employee satisfaction, loyalty programs, technology and media and the acquisition of several new multinational clients. IMRB's insights also played a role in the development of several new products for major Indian brands such as Marico, Bingo Chips, Godrej and Dabur and by this time supported 40 out of top 50 brands in India.\n\nIn 2002, as part of a process of rebranding, it changed its name from the Indian Market Research Bureau to IMRB International, adopted a new logo, and began a process of rapidly expanding its international services. This was accompanied by a shift from its offices at Esplanade Mansion to its current premises in Dadar, Mumbai. As part of geographical expansion, IMRB helped set up LMRB in Colombo, Sri Lanka in 1981 and AMRB in 1999 with headquarters in Dubai and offices throughout the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nIn 1996, along with the Manufacturers’ Association for Information Technology (MAIT) IMRB initiated the periodic ITOPS survey which monitors the IT hardware market among households and businesses. Since 1998, in collaboration with the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), an industry body IMRB also started providing a series of annual syndicated research reports named I-Cube which surveys the online and mobile landscape in India. More recently, in 2010 IMRB launched the Web Audience Measurement (WAM) system, India’s first standardized internet audience measurement system based on a panel.\n\nIMRB is headquartered in Mumbai, India. Its parent company is Hindustan Thompson Associates, which in turn is owned by Martin Sorrell's WPP Group plc. Within WPP, IMRB is aligned with the Kantar Group, an umbrella network of global market research companies that together account for over $2 billion in revenues and form the world’s second biggest market research conglomerate.\n\nIn India, IMRB International operates out of its five full service offices in Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Bangalore and is supported by 15 other regional centers for collection of survey information. Overseas, IMRB functions through its associates AMRB-MENA in the Middle East and North Africa, with offices in Algiers, Dubai, Jeddah, Casablanca and Cairo; and LMRB, with offices in Colombo and Sirius, headquartered in Dhaka.\n\nIMRB is currently headed by Preeti Reddy. As the oldest market research company in India, it has served as the training ground of many industry leaders including Dorab Sopariwala, Ranjit Chib and Meena Kaushik, who went on to found their own companies.\n\nIMRB is organized into several independent business divisions that focus on specific areas of market research. It currently has eight business units in addition to its oldest division, the quantitative research division.\n\nIn addition to its eight specialized units, IMRB also has Abacus field offices that are responsible for the recruitment, administration and quality control of survey responses.\n\nWhile a significant amount of its work involves customized research such as usage studies, branding studies, public opinion research, concept testing, product testing, need assessment studies, packaging and label research, and market segmentation studies IMRB also offers a variety of syndicated research products and reports that are widely used as industry bench-marks of consumer behaviour, such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2276540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276540", "title": "Illegal agreement", "text": "Illegal agreement\n\nAn illegal agreement, under the common law of contract, is one that the courts will not enforce because the purpose of the agreement is to achieve an illegal end. The illegal end must result from performance of the contract itself. The classic example of such an agreement is a contract for murder.\n\nHowever, a contract that requires only legal performance on the part of each party, such as the sale of packs of cards to a known gambler, where gambling is illegal, will nonetheless be enforceable. A contract directly linked to the gambling act itself, such as paying off gambling debts (see proximate cause), however, will not meet the legal standards of enforceability. Therefore, an employment contract between a blackjack dealer and a speakeasy manager, is an example of an illegal agreement and the employee has no valid claim to his anticipated wages if gambling is illegal under that jurisdiction.\n\nIn \"Bovard v. American Horse Enterprises\" (1988), the California Court of Appeal for the Third District refused to enforce a contract for payment of promissory notes used for the purchase of a company that manufactured drug paraphernalia. Although the items sold were not actually illegal, the court refused to enforce the contract for public policy concerns.\n\nIn Canada, one cited case of lack of enforceability based on illegality is \"Royal Bank of Canada v. Newell, 147 D.L.R (4th) 268 (N.S.C.A.),\" in which a woman forged her husband's signature on 40 cheques, totalling over $58,000. To protect her from prosecution, her husband signed a letter of intent prepared by the bank in which he agreed to assume \"all liability and responsibility\" for the forged cheques. However, the agreement was unenforceable, and was struck down by the courts, because of its essential goal, which was to \"stifle a criminal prosecution.\" Because of the contract's illegality, and as a result voided status, the bank was forced to return the payments made by the husband.\n\nContracts in restraint of trade are a variety of illegal contracts and generally will not be enforced unless they are reasonable in the interests of the contracting parties and the \npublic.\n\nContracts in restraint of trade if proved to be reasonable can be enforced. When restraint is placed on an ex-employee, the court will consider the geographical limits, what the employee knows and the extent of the duration. Restraint imposed on a vendor of business must be reasonable and is binding if there is a genuine seal of goodwill. Under common law, contracts to fix prices are legal. \"Sole supplier\" (\"solus\") agreements are legal if reasonable. Contracts which contravene public policy are void.\n\n"}
{"id": "744901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=744901", "title": "James Buchanan Duke", "text": "James Buchanan Duke\n\nJames Buchanan Duke (December 23, 1856 – October 10, 1925) was an American tobacco and electric power industrialist best known for the introduction of modern cigarette manufacture and marketing, and his involvement with Duke University.\n\nJames Buchanan Duke, known by the nickname \"Buck\", was born on December 23, 1856, near Durham, North Carolina, to industrialist and philanthropist Washington Duke (1820–1905) and his second wife, Artelia Roney Duke.\n\nDuke's father, Washington, had owned a tobacco company that his sons James and Benjamin (1855–1929) took over in the 1880s. In 1885, James Buchanan Duke acquired a license to use the first automated cigarette making machine (invented by James Albert Bonsack), and by 1890, Duke supplied 40% of the American cigarette market (then known as pre-rolled tobacco). In that year, Duke consolidated control of his four major competitors under one corporate entity, the American Tobacco Company, which was a monopoly as he controlled over 90% in the American cigarette market. His robber baron business tactics directly led to the Black Patch Tobacco Wars in 1906-1908.\n\nAt the start of the 1900s, Duke tried to conquer the British market as he had done the American, eventually forcing the then divided British manufacturers to merge into the Imperial Tobacco Company of Great Britain and Ireland, Ltd (Imperial Tobacco). After two years of intense competition in Great Britain, Imperial Tobacco took the fight to the U.S. market, forcing American Tobacco to look for a settlement. This resulted in an agreement whereby American Tobacco controlled the American trade, Imperial Tobacco controlled the trade in the British territories, and a third, cooperative venture named the British-American Tobacco Company was set up between the two to control the sale of tobacco in the rest of the world. During this time, Duke was repeatedly sued by business partners and shareholders. In 1906, the American Tobacco Company was found guilty of antitrust violations, and was ordered to be split into four separate companies: American Tobacco Company, Liggett and Myers, R.J. Reynolds, and the P. Lorillard Company.\n\nIn 1892, the Dukes opened their first textile firm in Durham, North Carolina, that was run by his brother Benjamin. At the turn of the century, Buck organized the American Development Company to acquire land and water rights on the Catawba River. In 1904, he established the Catawba Power Company and the following year he and his brother founded the Southern Power Company, which became known as Duke Power, the precursor to the Duke Energy conglomerate. The company supplied electrical power to the Duke's textile factory and within two decades, their power facilities had been greatly expanded and they were supplying electricity to more than 300 cotton mills and other industrial companies. Duke Power established an electrical grid that supplied cities and towns in the Piedmont Region of North and South Carolina. Lake James, a power-generating reservoir in Western North Carolina, was created by the company in 1928 and named in Duke's honor. Buck Steam Station in Rowan County, North Carolina, built in 1926, was also named for Duke. \n\nIn 1911, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld an order breaking up the American Tobacco Company's monopoly. The company was then divided into several smaller enterprises, of which only the British-American Tobacco Company remained in Duke's control. After his death in 1925, there was a great deal of controversy, and some historians suspect that some resentful Imperial Tobacco executives were feeling some anger at Duke for having lost the Tobacco War between Duke's company and Imperial Tobacco.\n\nDuke was married twice, first in 1904 to Lillian Fletcher McCredy (also known as Lillian Nanette Duke). They divorced in 1906 and had no children. In 1907 he married the widow Nanaline Holt Inman, with whom he had his only child, a daughter, Doris, born November 22, 1912. Doris was raised at Duke Farms located in Hillsborough, New Jersey, where her father had worked with landscapers such as James Leal Greenleaf (a member of the firm of Frederick Law Olmsted), and Horatio Buckenham to transform more than of farmland and woodlots into an extraordinary landscape containing 2 conservatories, 9 lakes, 35 fountains, 45 buildings, countless pieces of sculpture, over of stone walls and more than of roadway.\n\nDuke died in New York City on October 10, 1925, and is interred with his father and brother in the Memorial Chapel on the campus of Duke University. He resided at his home, Lynnewood in Charlotte, North Carolina during the last five years of his life. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.\n\nIn December 1924, Duke established The Duke Endowment, $40 million trust fund (), some of which was to go to Trinity College. The University was renamed Duke University in honor of his father. The James B. Duke Library, the main campus library at Furman University, is also named for him because of his philanthropic relationship with the university.\n\nOn his death, he left approximately half of his huge estate to The Duke Endowment, which gave another $67 million () to the trust fund. In the indenture of trust, Duke specified that he wanted the endowment to support Duke University, Davidson College, Furman University, Johnson C. Smith University; not-for-profit hospitals and children's homes in the two Carolinas; and rural United Methodist churches in North Carolina, retired pastors, and their surviving families.\n\nThe remainder of Duke's estate, estimated at approximately $100 million (), went to his twelve-year-old daughter, Doris, making her \"the richest girl in the world\". Doris sued her mother for control of the Duke Farms estate and won. Associating Duke Farms with fond memories of her father, Doris Duke made few major changes to the property other than the adaptation of her father's Conservatory to create Display Gardens in his honor. These gardens showcased her father's extensive sculpture collection and were open to the public from 1964 until closed by her foundation trustees in May 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "37336280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37336280", "title": "James Cowlishaw", "text": "James Cowlishaw\n\nJames Cowlishaw (19 December 1834 – 25 July 1929) was an architect, businessman and politician in Queensland (initially a colony, then a state of Australia from 1901).\n\nCowlishaw was born in Sydney, where he was educated at St. James's Grammar School, and went to Queensland in 1861 to practise as an architect.\n\nOn 18 April 1878 he was appointed to a seat in the Queensland Legislative Council and held it until the Council was abolished in March 1922.\nCowlishaw was part proprietor and managing director for some years of the \"Brisbane Evening Telegraph\", but sold his interest in the newspaper in 1885.\n\nCowlishaw founded the Brisbane Gas Company in 1864, was auditor from 1869 to 1873 and then became a director. He then succeeded Lewis Bernays as chairman in March 1879, and held that position until 1920.\n\nCowlishaw died in Bowen Hills, Brisbane, Queensland and was buried in Toowong Cemetery.\n\nHis architectural works include:\n"}
{"id": "759843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=759843", "title": "Junior Achievement", "text": "Junior Achievement\n\nJA (Junior Achievement) Worldwide is a global non-profit youth organization founded in 1919 by Horace A. Moses, Theodore Vail, and Winthrop M. Crane. JA works with local businesses, schools, and organizations to deliver experiential learning programs on the topics of work readiness, financial literacy, and entrepreneurship to students from ages 5 to 25.\n\n\"Boys' and Girls' Bureau of the Eastern States League\" was founded in Springfield, Massachusetts, in 1919 to help educate young people moving from rural America to the country's booming cities about the means of production and free enterprise. The following year, the organization's name was changed to the Junior Achievement Bureau. The name was modified in 1926 to Junior Achievement, Inc.\n\nFollowing World War II, the organization grew from a regional into a national organization. In the 1960s, JA began its growth into an international organization.\n\nFor more than 50 years, the organization was known mostly for the JA Company Program, an after-school program through which students form companies, sell stocks, produce and market a product, and sell it in their communities and globally. The student companies are mentored by volunteer advisers from the business and tech communities. In 1975, Junior Achievement introduced its first in-school program, Project Business, featuring volunteers from the local business community teaching middle school students about business and personal finance.\n\nToday, JA Worldwide is one of the world's largest organization youth-serving organizations, dedicated to giving young people the knowledge and skills they need for employment and entrepreneurship. JA programs are delivered by corporate and community volunteers and provide relevant, hands-on experiences that give students knowledge and skills in financial literacy, work readiness, and entrepreneurship. JA annually reaches more than 10 million students in more than 100 countries around the world. Programs are delivered by more than 450,000 JA volunteers.\n\nJA Worldwide has regional offices in Junior Achievement USA, JA Middle East and Africa (INJAZ Al-Arab), JA Europe, JA Asia Pacific, JA Americas, and JA Africa.\n\nSeveral other organizations have joined JA Worldwide, such as Young Enterprise in the UK, INJAZ in the Middle East, Prestasi Junior in Indonesia, and Vlajo in Belgium.\n\nNotable JA alumni include former U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, U.S. Congressman Bob Clement, Subway restaurant founder Fred DeLuca, American actor Arte Johnson, journalist Dan Rather, Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, comedian Amy Sedaris, and British Labor Party Politician David Lammy.\n\nJA programs for elementary, middle, high school, and college students are designed to \"help prepare young people for the real world by showing them how to generate wealth and effectively manage it, how to create jobs which make their communities more robust, and how to apply entrepreneurial thinking to the workplace.\"\n\n\n\n\nFrom its founding in 1919 until 1962, JA was managed by volunteers from the business community. In 1962, the organization hired its first, full-time, paid president.\n\nLeaders of Junior Achievement USA included:\n\n\nBeginning in 1944, Junior Achievement organized an annual national conference, known as the National Junior Achievers Conference, NAJAC, to bring together student representatives of local programs to participate in contests. In 1949, the organization began allowing conference delegates to elect national leadership to play an active role contributing to program development, increasing public awareness and supporting fundraising.\n\nFrom 1944 to 1961, conferences were held in New Jersey, West Virginia, Ohio and Indiana, before finding a permanent home on the campus of Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana, where delegates have gathered in August of each year since 1962.\n\nBetween 1949 and 1989, 33 teenagers, including 31 boys and 2 girls, were elected by their peers to serve as Junior Achievement's national conference president.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37860098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37860098", "title": "Khalid bin Bandar bin Sultan Al Saud", "text": "Khalid bin Bandar bin Sultan Al Saud\n\nKhalid bin Bandar bin Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (Arabic: الأمير خالد بن بندر بن سلطان بن عبدالعزيز آل سعود) is a Saudi businessman and a member of the House of Saud.\n\nKhalid bin Bandar is the son of Bandar bin Sultan. He attended Eton College before going up to Pembroke College, Oxford, where he graduated in Oriental studies. He also attended Sandhurst Military Academy, graduating as a commissioned officer, before becoming a post-graduate at Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.\n\nKhalid bin Bandar started his career, working at the United Nations' department of political affairs in New York. He worked for 3 years as an advisor to the Saudi Ambassador in Washington DC. He is an executive chairman of Dayım Holding founded in 2006. He is also an acting general manager of Al Hama Company, a Saudi-based retail company and the chairman of Byblos Real Estate Development Company based in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nIn June 2017 HRH Prince Khalid became the Saudi ambassador to Germany.\n\nKhalid dated from 1998 to 2001 and lived together with Vanessa Trump. They intended to marry, but broke up after September 11 attacks when he left the U.S. after his father was suspected of having indirect ties to the hijackers.\n\nIn Oxford in March 2011, Khalid married Lucy Caroline Cuthbert (b. 1982), maternal niece of Ralph Percy, 12th Duke of Northumberland, at a ceremony attended by a handful of guests.\n"}
{"id": "31374265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31374265", "title": "Khloé &amp; Lamar", "text": "Khloé &amp; Lamar\n\nKhloé & Lamar is an American reality television series that debuted on E! in the United States and Canada on April 10, 2011. The series is the third spin-off of the show \"Keeping Up with the Kardashians\" and features reality star Khloé Kardashian and her then-husband, basketball player Lamar Odom. The series returned for its second and final season on February 19, 2012.\n\n\n\nRiley Sky of \"Dropkick Divas Media\" gave the series 3 out of 5 stars, saying \"Khloé & Lamar is probably one of my favorite reality series. The show features each person's own personal struggles along with their families and their relationships. A show that finally features Khloe and her darling husband Lamar\".\n\n"}
{"id": "45268290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45268290", "title": "Legal aspects of workplace bullying", "text": "Legal aspects of workplace bullying\n\nThe law for workplace bullying is given below for each country in detail. Further European countries with concrete antibullying legislation are Belgium, France, and The Netherlands.\n\nEach state has its own legislation.\n\nIn Queensland, legislation comes from Workplace Health and Safety Queensland. If bullying (referred to as 'Workplace Harassment' in the Queensland subordinate legislation) endangers a worker's health causing stress or any other physical harm, an obligation holders under the 'Workplace Health and Safety Act, 1995' can be found liable for not providing a safe place for their employees to work. Queensland is one of only two States in Australia with a Code of Practice specifically for workplace bullying – 'The Prevention of Workplace Harassment Code of Practice, 2004'\nIn Victoria, legislation comes from Worksafe Victoria. If bullying endangers a worker's health causing stress or any other physical harm, a corporation can be found liable for not providing a safe place for their employees to work.\n\nThe Canadian Province of Quebec passed legislation addressing workplace bullying on 1 June 2004. In its act representing labour standards, \"psychological harassment\" is prohibited. The Commission des normes du travail is the organization responsible for the application of this act.\n\nUnder the Ontario Occupational Health and Safety Act 1979, all employers \"take every precaution reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of a worker\". This includes protecting them against the risk of workplace violence. The Act requires establishment of Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committees for larger employers.\n\nUnder the act, workplace violence is defined as \"...the attempted or actual exercise of any intentional physical force that causes or may cause physical injury to a worker. It also includes any threats which give a worker reasonable grounds to believe he or she is at risk of physical injury\". Currently, as the Act is written, the Ontario Occupational Health and Safety Act does not specifically cover the issue of psychological harassment.\n\nOn 13 December 2007, MPP Andrea Horwath introduced for first reading a new Bill, Bill-29, to make an amendment to the Ontario Occupational Health and Safety Act. This Bill-29 is proposing \"to protect workers from harassment and violence in the workplace\" and will include protection from psychological abuse and bullying behaviors in the workplace in Ontario.\n\nThe Ontario OHS Act has been amended to include Bill 168, which came into force 15 June 2010. The amendment includes the protection of employees from psychological harassment, workplace violence, including domestic violence in the workplace.\n\nThe Canadian Province of Saskatchewan made workplace bullying illegal in 2007 by passing The Occupational Health and Safety (Harassment Prevention) Amendment Act, 2007. The act broadened the definition of harassment, as defined in The Occupational Health and Safety Act 1993, to include psychological harassment.\n\nManitoba enacted Bill 18 making bullying illegal and legitimized school \"bullying clubs\", Including gay-straight alliances, and other school anti-bullying clubs.\nhttp://web2.gov.mb.ca/bills/40-2/b018e.php\n\nIn Republic of Ireland, there is a Code of Practice for employers and employees on the prevention and resolution of bullying at work. The Code notes the provision in the Safety, Health and Welfare Act 2005 requiring employers to manage work activities to prevent improper conduct or behaviour at work. The Code of Practice provides both employer and employee with the means and the machinery to identify and to stamp out bullying in the workplace in a way which benefits all sides.\nIn Spain, within the public administration, activities including preventing access to opportunities, physical or social isolation, withholding necessary information, keeping the target out of the loop, ignoring or excluding, if permanent and for a long time, are considered labor harassment and have to be prosecuted.\n\nWorkplace bullying in Sweden is covered by the \"Ordinance of the Swedish National Board of Occupational Safety and Health containing Provisions on measures against Victimization at Work\", which defines victimisation as \"\"...recurrent reprehensible or distinctly negative actions which are directed against individual employees in an offensive manner and can result in those employees being placed outside the workplace community\".\"\n\nThe act places the onus on employers to plan and organise work so as to prevent victimisation and to make it clear to employees that victimisation is not acceptable. The employer is also responsible for the early detection of signs of victimisation, prompt counter measures to deal with victimisation and making support available to employees who have been targeted.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, although bullying is not specifically mentioned in workplace legislation, there are means to obtain legal redress for bullying. The Protection from Harassment Act 1997 is a recent addition to the more traditional approaches using employment-only legislation. Notable cases include Majrowski v Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Trust wherein it was held that an employer is vicariously liable for one employee's harassment of another, and Green v DB Group Services (UK) Ltd, where a bullied worker was awarded over £800,000 in damages. In the latter case, at paragraph 99, the judge Mr Justice Owen said \"I am satisfied that the behaviour amounted to a deliberate and concerted campaign of bullying within the ordinary meaning of that term.\"\n\nBullying behaviour breaches other UK laws. An implied term of every employment contract in the UK is that parties to the contract have a (legal) duty of trust and confidence to each other. Bullying, or an employer tolerating bullying, typically breaches that contractual term. Such a breach creates circumstances entitling an employee to terminate his or her contract of employment without notice, which can lead to a finding by an Employment Tribunal of unfair dismissal, colloquially called constructive dismissal. An employee bullied in response to asserting a statutory right can be compensated for the detriment under Part V of the Employment Rights Act 1996, and if dismissed, Part X of the same Act provides that the dismissal is automatically unfair. Where a person is bullied on grounds of sex, race or disability \"et al.\", it is outlawed under anti-discrimination laws.\n\nIt was argued, following the obiter comments of Lord Hoffmann in Johnson v Unisys Ltd in March 2001, that claims could be made before an Employment Tribunal for injury to feelings arising from unfair dismissal. It was re-established that this was not what the law provided, in Dunnachie v Kingston upon Hull City Council, July 2004 wherein the Lords confirmed that the position established in \"Norton Tool v Tewson\" in 1972, that compensation for unfair dismissal was limited to financial loss alone. The compensatory award element for \"ordinary\" unfair dismissal is subject to a statutory cap set, from February 2014, at the lower of £76574 or 12 months gross pay. Discriminatory dismissal continues to attract compensation for injury to feelings and financial loss, and there is no statutory cap.\n\nAccess to justice in the UK is via self-representation at a tribunal, via a no-win no-fee lawyer, or via insurance or trade union lawyers. Since the Access to Justice act, \"collective conditional fees\" have blurred the distinction causing controversy for example in the case of Unison v Jervis.\n\nIn the United States, comprehensive workplace bullying legislation has not been passed by the federal government or by any US state, but since 2003 many state legislatures have considered bills. , 16 US states have proposed legislation; these are:\n\nThese workplace bullying bills would typically have allowed employees to sue their employers for creating an \"abusive work environment\", and most have been supported by the notion that laws against workplace bullying are necessary to protect public health. Many of the above bills are based upon the proposed Healthy Workplace Bill. This proposed bill contains several restrictive provisions not found in workplace anti-bully legislation adopted in other countries.\n\nDespite the lack of any federal or state law specifically on workplace bullying, some targets of bullying have prevailed in lawsuits that allege alternative theories, such as Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress and Assault.\n\nAlthough most US states operate primarily under the doctrine of at-will employment (which, in theory, allows an employer to fire an employee for any reason or no reason at all), American workers have gained significant legal leverage through discrimination and harassment laws, workplace safety laws, union-protection laws. etc., such that it is illegal under federal and most states' laws to fire employees for many reasons. For example, these employment laws typically forbid retaliation for good faith complaints or the exercise of legal rights such as the right to organize a union. Discrimination and harassment laws enable employees to sue for creating a \"hostile work environment\", which can include bullying, but the bullying/hostility usually is tied in some way to a characteristic protected under the discrimination/harassment law, such as race, sex, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, etc.\n\nPeople can take legal action if specific action of workplace bullying is violated existing law or if it is recognized that laborer who is bullied in workplace suffer industrial accident, but generally it is hard to confirm whether it is illegal or not. Fundamentally, industrial accident can be approved when the accident have task correlation. However, it is hard to say that bullying is related with work. Besides bullying could be occurred in diverse places such as cafeteria, commuting bus, get -together so the task correlation is not likely to be approved. There is, however, a case about recognition of industrial accident related with workplace bullying. The court said that if laborer received treatment due to workplace bullying, it is an industrial accident and the person can take legal action.\n"}
{"id": "4671450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4671450", "title": "Lin Hsin-i", "text": "Lin Hsin-i\n\nLin Hsin-i (), a Taiwanese businessman. He served in the Democratic Progressive Party administration as Minister of Economic Affairs between 2000 and 2002, then as Vice Premier between 2002 and 2004.\n\nIn November 2005, while a Senior Presidential Adviser, Lin attended the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Busan, South Korea, in place of Taiwan's President Chen Shui-bian. Because of opposition from the People's Republic of China, Taiwan's senior leaders are unable to attend APEC events in person and must send a ministerial-level envoy. He was Chairman of the Industrial Technology Research Institute from 2004 to 2008.\n\nA graduate of Taiwan Provincial Cheng Kung University, Lin was an executive in the car industry before entering politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "50920960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50920960", "title": "Mainhattan", "text": "Mainhattan\n\nMainhattan is the central business district of Frankfurt in Germany. The word is a portmanteau of Main, the river on which Frankfurt lies, and Manhattan, a reference to the inner city area's visually impressive high rises and skyscrapers. Together with St. Paul's Church, these buildings form the skyline of the city. The first tall buildings were built in the 1960s. Banks and other financial institutions settled there, which resulted in the district also being referred to as \"Bankfurt\" (\"Bankford\"). Originally, both expressions were sometimes used derisively, but the connotation has changed to a purely positive one. The seat of the European Central Bank is located in Mainhattan. The Commerzbank Tower was the tallest building in the European Union until the Shard in London was built. After the United Kingdom voted to withdraw from the European Union, plans were made for several financial institutions to move from the City of London to Mainhattan.\n"}
{"id": "22902327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22902327", "title": "Mike L. Fry", "text": "Mike L. Fry\n\nMichael L. \"Mike\" Fry (October 25, 1960 – November 4, 2012) was an American serial entrepreneur, entertainer, trainer and marketing expert. He was the original Happy the Hobo on the children's television series \"Happy's Place\", and the creative mind behind and owner of Fancy Fortune Cookies.\n\nMike Fry was born in Kankakee, Illinois but grew up in the Huntington, Indiana area. He was the state Tae Kwon Do champion in 1979. He began juggling at the age of fourteen, after finding out that his grandfather used to juggle dirt clods on the farm in rural Illinois. By the age of 17 he was juggling for audiences in the local area.\n\nFry was accepted to the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Clown College, in Venice, Florida at the age of 19, graduating in 1981. He toured with the circus for the 1981 and 1982 season. He had the honor of being trained by three of the world's four Master Clowns: Lou Jacobs, Frosty Little, and Bobby Kay. He trained in heavy object balancing, which included six-foot tables, small canoes, a twenty-five foot ladder, a running chainsaw, other people, sofas, and a television set. In 1981, he became a Guinness Book of World Records record holder as part of a group that juggled the most objects at one time.\n\nHe left Ringling Brothers in 1982 and made the transition to television, where he wrote and co-produced \"Happy's Place\", one of America's highest-rated children's television shows, from 1982 to 1990. \"Happy's Place\" aired on Fox affiliate WFFT-TV in 207 cities for eight years. At the height of the show's popularity there was a two-year wait for tickets to the show. He hosted a variety of guests from The Harlem Globetrotters to Jerry Mathers and Tiny Tim.\n\nAfter leaving \"Happy's Place\", Fry trained at The Second City sketch comedy group in Chicago. While in Chicago he also auditioned to play the role of Bozo the Clown, and did some writing for the show as a result. He was also an instructor at the Illinois Juggling Institute for one year while he lived in Chicago.\n\nDuring his role as Happy the Hobo, Fry became interested in inventing. In 1988 he started marketing his first viable invention, America's first gourmet flavored fortune cookies. Since 1988 the company has greatly expanded on his original concept of gourmet fortune cookies, specializing in flavored, chocolate-dipped, giant, and decorated fortune cookies.\n\nIn 1990 Fry started developing and marketing another of his inventions, the \"Always There Bear\". He spent twelve years developing, marketing and refining the idea, culminating in his invention being purchased by Hasbro toys in 2002. His story is featured in the book \"The One Minute Millionaire\", by Mark Victor Hansen and Robert Allen. Fry worked with both Mark and Robert on the deal with Hasbro.\n\nHis products have been used by Donald Trump, Ozzy Osbourne, Jay Leno, Conan O'Brien, Steven Spielberg and many other noted celebrities.\n\nIn 2004 Fry joined up with his long-time friend and mentor Linda Chandler as a part of her Core Value Training Program. He used his experiences as a marketer, entrepreneur and entertainer to teach internet marketing strategies to thousands of international business owners.\n\nPrior to his death, Fry was working on publishing his own children's joke book, using jokes from his live kids' show. He had collected kids' joke books for many years, and he had a huge collection of them. Fry was also working on a book pertaining to goal-setting based around hours of interviews with adventurer and author John Goddard, who greatly influenced Fry to start his own life-list at age 23.\n\nOn November 4, 2012 it was announced that Mike Fry had died at the IU Medical Center in Indianapolis. He had suffered from an immune disorder for about 12 months. He was awaiting a liver transplant when he succumbed to the illness.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32647159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32647159", "title": "Mississauga Board of Trade", "text": "Mississauga Board of Trade\n\nThe Mississauga Board of Trade (MBOT) is a non-profit organization representing the business interests of 1500 Mississauga corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "5066424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5066424", "title": "Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan", "text": "Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan\n\nSheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan heads the United Arab Emirates Ministry of Culture, Youth, and Social Development.\n\nPrior to March 17, 2013, he headed the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research. He is the son of Mubarak bin Mohammed Al Nahyan, grandson of Mohammad bin Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, great-grandson of Khalifa bin Zayed bin Khalifa Al Nahyan, and great-great-grandson of Zayed bin Khalifa Al Nahyan. Hamdan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Public Works, is his brother. Sheikh Nahyan was also Chancellor of two of the UAE's three government-sponsored institutions of higher learning: United Arab Emirates University, established in 1976, and the Higher Colleges of Technology, established in 1988; and president of the third, Zayed University, established in 1998 until removed from these positions in April 2013. He is also the Chairman of CERT (Centre of Excellence for Applied Research and Training), the commercial arm of the Higher Colleges of Technology, established in 1996. For several years, Sheikh Nahyan has been the sponsor of the Emirates Natural History Group with chapters in Abu Dhabi and Al Ain. One of the two awards presented annually by the Abu Dhabi chapter is the Sh. Mubarak Award, named for Sheikh Nahyan's father.\n\nNahyan is Chairman of Warid Telecom International (a regional telecoms group based out of Abu Dhabi with operations in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Uganda, Congo Brazzaville, and Ivory Coast). He is also chairman of the Abu Dhabi Group, Union National Bank, and United Bank Limited.\n\nNahyan has taken a keen interest in Pakistan–United Arab Emirates Friendship. He is one of two Emirati royals, that own estate with a personal game reserve near the mouth of the Indus River in Sindh Province used for falconeering and hunting; the other royal being the late Sheikh Zayed. Nahyan's Abu Dhabi United Group is a large investor in Pakistan. It owns Bank Alfalah, Warid Telecom, Wateen Telecom, Taavun and many more in Pakistan. He is also Founder Chairman of Bank Alfalah.\n\nSheikh Nahyan Mubarak Al Nahyan is also recipient of Pakistan's highest civilian award, the Hilal-e-Pakistan, which was conferred upon him by the President of Pakistan in 2005.\n\nIn Georgia, Nahyan invested in Kor Standard Bank (now Terabank) and Biltmore Hotel Tbilisi.\n\n"}
{"id": "6474010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6474010", "title": "Outline of business management", "text": "Outline of business management\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to management:\n\nBusiness management – management of a business. It includes all aspects of overseeing and supervising business operations. Management is the act of allocating resources to accomplish desired goals and objectives efficiently and effectively; it comprises planning, organizing, staffing, leading or directing, and controlling an organization (a group of one or more people or entities) or effort for the purpose of accomplishing a goal.\n\n\nOrganization – \n\nManagement application can be utilised by a person or a group of persons and by a company or a group of companies depending upon the type of management skills being used. Management can be applied to every aspect of activity of a person or an organization:\n\nSelf-governance is the act of conducting oneself to get things done. Effective management of oneself is a natural prerequisite of effective management. Personal skills related to business activity include:\n\n\n\n\nStrategic management – \n\nBusiness analysis – set of tasks, knowledge, and techniques required to identify business needs and determine solutions to business problems. Solutions often include a systems development component, but may also consist of process improvement or organizational change. \n\nGoal setting – involves establishing specific, measurable and time targeted objectives\n\nPlanning – in organizations and public policy is both the organizational process of creating and maintaining a plan; and the psychological process of thinking about the activities required to create a desired goal on some scale. \n\n\n\n\n\nBusiness education – teaching students the fundamentals, theories, and processes of business.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55958662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55958662", "title": "Pam Pollard", "text": "Pam Pollard\n\nPam Pollard is the current chair of the Republican Party of Oklahoma. She has previously served as the Vice Chair of the Republican party of Oklahoma, and the President of the Oklahoma Federation of Republican Women. She is the owner and President of Pollard Accounting and Tax Service.\n\nAs state Chairwoman, Pollard was a delegate to the 2016 Republican National Convention, but she was not bound to a predetermined candidate. She was among the handful of unbound delegates nationwide who publicly announced support for Donald Trump before the July 18 Convention, enabling Trump to clinch the nomination on May 26, 2016. She told the Associated Press, \"I think he has touched a part of our electorate that doesn't like where our country is... I have no problem supporting Mr. Trump.\" British political reporter Jack Blanchard described Pollard as \"divisive\".\n\nPollard was an enthusiastic supporter of Sarah Palin in 2008. \n\nPollard graduated from the University of Florida with a degree in Forest Engineering. Later she returned to school and earned a B.A in Accounting from East Central University.\n\nPollard worked in small business accounting and tax preparation for over 27 years.\n\nPollard served on the Board of Directors for The Hugs Project. In 2004 she served as the coordinator for the 72 hour \"Get Out The Vote\" program for the Republican Party of Oklahoma. Later, in 2005 she took a job as an office manager and scheduler for Congressman Ernest Istook's 2006 gubernatorial campaign. Later that year she became the state treasurer for the Oklahoma Federation of Republican Women.\n\nIn 2007, Pollard was elected as the chair of the Oklahoma County Republican Party and became the assistant state director with Americans for Prosperity. In 2010 she worked with Mary Fallin's gubernatorial campaign.\n\nPollard was elected President of the Oklahoma Federation of Republican Woman in 2014. Later, in 2015, Pollard campaigned for Chair of the Oklahoma Republican Party. She lost the election to Randy Brogdon but after Brogdon resigned, she was elected.\n"}
{"id": "50462147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50462147", "title": "Peter Alfond", "text": "Peter Alfond\n\nPeter Alfond (May 17, 1952 – July 10, 2017) was an American millionaire, investor, and philanthropist.\n\nPeter Alfond was born to a Jewish family, the son of Dorothy (née Levine) and businessman-philanthropist Harold Alfond. \n\nHarold Alfond founded the Dexter Shoe Company in 1958 and sold it in 1995 for $433 million of Berkshire Hathaway stock.\n\nAlfond was married to Karen Benson, they met at Rollins College in Winterpark, Florida and had four children: Rebekah, Kyle, Sarah, and Deborah.\n\nPeter Alfond died on July 10, 2017 of complications from malaria, which he had contracted on a trip to Africa. He was 65 years old.\n"}
{"id": "7340320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7340320", "title": "Philippe Bourguignon", "text": "Philippe Bourguignon\n\nPhilippe Bourguignon (born 1948) is a French businessman who served as the chief executive officer of Euro Disney, executive vice president of Disney Europe, the chairman and chief executive of Club Med, and the co-chief executive officer of the Davos-based World Economic Forum in 2003 and 2004. He is vice chairman of Revolution Places, founded by America Online (AOL) cofounder Steve Case and is the executive co-chairman of Exclusive Resorts.\n\nPhilippe Bourguignon was born in Salins, France. He spent his boyhood in Morocco, then as a teen moved to Aix-en-Provence. He has a master's degree in Economics from the Université Paul Cézanne Aix-Marseille III and holds a post-graduate diploma from the Institut d'Administration des Entreprises de Paris (IAE Paris). Bourguignon is married with two children.\n\nBourguignon spent 14 years with the Accor group from 1974 to 1988, and was eventually promoted to President of Accor for the Asia/Pacific region. During this time he relocated to the US to develop the Sofitel and Novotel brands, and oversaw the construction of Novotel New York which opened in 1984.\n\nWhile still in the U.S., Bourguignon was recruited by The Walt Disney Company as the head of real estate development. After joining Disney, he spent two years in California before relocating to Paris in October 1992 to be the CEO of Euro Disney.\n\nIn 1997 Bourguignon was appointed Chairman and CEO of Club Méditerranée (Club Med), a position he held until 2003.In 2003, Bourguignon became Co-CEO of the World Economic Forum (known as Davos), and during 2005 he was the chairman of Aegis Media France. Bourguignon is currently Vice Chairman of Revolution Places, Executive Co-Chairman of Exclusive Resorts, Chairman of the advisory board of Primonial, the largest independent wealth management firm in France, and an active investor in OneRagtime, the venture platform that invests in early stage technology startups.\n\nPhilippe is a co-founder of the Monthly Barometer, a subscription service that enables executives and leaders from around the world to anticipate and leverage emerging trends, using “contextual intelligence” methods to analyze the macro issues relevant to decision-makers.\n\nIn 2005, Philippe published his first book, Hop! a revealing discussion on the paradoxes of the world and the French economy.\n\nPhilippe sits on the boards of CAVA, a fast casual Mediterranean food company founded in Washington, D.C.; Vinfolio, serving wine-enthusiasts and collectors worldwide (USA); Neiman Marcus; Operation Hope; Positive Planet; Worldview; and is an adviser at startups including Busbud, SRS Acquiom, and Framebridge. He previously sat on the Boards of Zipcar, a car sharing company (USA) that was acquired by Avis and eBay. He was chairman of the \"Scientific Committee of Law and Economics\" at the French Ministry of Justice in 2004 and 2005) after being an adviser to the French Minister of foreign affairs in 2003.\n\nBourguignon was CEO of Miraval resorts, an exclusive Tuscan-based spa resort. The first Miraval resort covered at the base of the Catalina Mountains near Tucson, Arizona. In July 2011, Bourguignon was named CEO of Exclusive Resorts. Exclusive Resorts was founded in 2002 and has grown to be the world's largest and best destination club.\n\nPhilippe Bourguignon has been named Chevalier of the Legion of Honor and Officer in the Ordre national du Mérite in France, and received the Moroccan Wissam Al Alaoui Order.\n\nPhilippe Bourguignon is married, and the father of two children. He races yachts with Bruno Peyron and set a record for crossing the English Channel. He also won the Bermuda World Series America’s Cup with Team New Zealand I in May 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54400245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54400245", "title": "Rodney Turner", "text": "Rodney Turner\n\nJohn Rodney Turner (born 21 January 1953) is a British/New Zealand organizational theorist and Professor of Project Management at Skema Business School since 2004 and at the Kingston Business School since 2013. He is known for his work of project management.\n\nTurner obtained his B.Eng from the University of Auckland in 1973, his DPhil in Engineering Science and MSc in mathematics from in Worcester College, Oxford in 1977, and another Msc from Brasenose College, Oxford in 1979. \n\nTurner started his academic career as IBM Post-doctoral Research Fellow in 1977 at Oxford University in its Department of Engineering Science and at Brasenose College. After his graduation in 1979 he moved into industry, starting as mechanical engineer at Imperial Chemical Industries. The next six years he worked in management positions in process development, project management, machine design, construction and maintenance. In 1985 he moved into consultancy branch and was management consultant for Coopers & Lybrand Associates in the fields of manufacturing and project management. There for three years he worked in the areas of shipbuilding, manufacturing, telecommunications, computing, finance, and government.\n\nIn 1989 he moved back to the academic world to the Henley Business School at the University of Reading as Director of Project Management, appointed Professor in 1994. In 1997 he moved to the Erasmus University Rotterdam, where he served as Professor of Project Management until 2005. In those days he was also Operations Director in the process plant industry at the European Construction Institute. Since 2004 he is Professor of Project Management at the Skema Business School. From 2005 to 2009 he was also Professor of Project Management at Kemmy Business School at the University of Limerick, at since 2013 Professor of Project Management at the Kingston Business School. \n\nRodney served as chairman of the Association for Project Management, and as chairman of the International Project Management Association from 1998-2000. \n\nTurners research areas cover \"project management in small to medium-enterprises, the management of complex projects, the governance of project management, including ethics and trust, project leadership and Human Resource Management in the project-oriented firm.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40349273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40349273", "title": "Rose Leon", "text": "Rose Leon\n\nRose Agatha Leon (20 October 1913 – 16 August 1999) was a Jamaican businesswoman and politician. In August 1999, she was murdered in her home.\n\nIn 1948, she became the first woman to chair a national political party, the Jamaica Labour Party, holding that position for 12 years.In 1949, she was elected into the house of representatives, and in 1953 was appointed minister of health and social welfare. \nIn 1960 she left the JLP due to its lack of support for the Federation of the West Indies. Soon after, she switched sides and joined the People's National Party, returning to prominence in the late 1960s as a local councillor, and in 1971 as deputy mayor of Kingston. From 1972-76 she was Minister of Local Government in the Manley government.\n\nHaving returned to Jamaica from studying chemistry in the US, she founded the Leon School of Beauty Culture with her husband. She pioneered a line of locally-made beauty products, providing an alternative to imports. Right up until her death, Leon taught at the school.\n"}
{"id": "57109942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57109942", "title": "SMS Pro", "text": "SMS Pro\n\nSMS Pro is an aviation safety management systems software package providing a web based SMS application, SMS training, and tools for aviation service providers to manage safety, security, quality, and quality issues worldwide. \n\nSMS Pro is modeled after ICAO advisory material and the Four Pillars of SMS, and serves aviation service providers worldwide. SMS Pro has been headquartered in Anchorage Alaska since 2004. \n\nSMS Pro is headquartered in Anchorage, Alaska, but provides SMS and risk management training all around the globe. They provide compliance guidance and other risk management educational material to providers based on guidance from major civil aviation authorities, including ICAO, FAA, Transport Canada, IS-BAO, and EASA.\n\nSMS Pro is managed by NorthWest Data Solutions, which also develops commercial databases and web software.\n\nSMS Pro was designed specifically for aviation safety management, and has been adopted by airports, airlines, maintenance repair organizations, flight schools, quasi-military/police and private aircraft operators.\n\nWhile SMS Pro is one of the most recognized SMS software applications within the aviation industry, there has been no adoption outside of the aviation industry as of 2018. Industry references are only found within aviation, under the aviation software categories.\n\nSMS Pro is a web-based application based on Microsoft .NET platform using a MS SQL Server database. SMS Pro has recently made efforts to be adopted as part of State Safety Programs, but as of yet no State Safety Programs have been created. \n\nSMS Pro provides two $1,000 scholarships each year to students participating in aviation safety courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "11029259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11029259", "title": "School-leaving age", "text": "School-leaving age\n\nThe school leaving age is the minimum age a person is legally allowed to cease attendance at an institute of compulsory secondary education. Most countries have their school leaving age set the same as their minimum full-time employment age, thus allowing smooth transition from education into employment, whilst a few have it set just below the age at which a person is allowed to be employed.\n\nIn contrast, there are numerous countries that have several years between their school leaving age and their legal minimum employment age, thus in some cases preventing any such transition for several years. Countries which have their employment age set below the school leaving age of 5 years old but (mostly developing countries), risk giving children the opportunity to leave their education early to earn money for their families.\n\nSome countries have different leaving or employment ages, but in certain countries like China and Japan, the average age at which people graduate is 15, depending upon part-time or full-time learning or employment. The table below states the school leaving ages in countries across the world and their respective minimum employment age, showing a comparison of how many countries have synchronised these ages. All information is taken from the Right to Education Project's table unless otherwise indicated.\n\nLegend\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23601980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23601980", "title": "Sims Recycling Solutions", "text": "Sims Recycling Solutions\n\nSims Recycling Solutions is the world's largest electrical and electronics recovery and recycling company. The company is based in the UK, with operations in 50 locations on five continents. They process 475,000 tonnes of electronic waste (e-waste) each year. They are part of the global recycler, Sims Metal Management Limited (formerly Sims Group).\n\nSims Recycling Solutions offers repair, refurbishment and recycling services for electronic and electrical goods, such as computers, laptops, televisions, monitors and mobile devices. From the recycling process Sims recovers materials such as precious metals, metals, plastic and glass.\n\nThe business was established in 1917 by Albert Sims, an Australian-based recycled metals dealer. In 2002, Sims Recycling Solutions was started in the UK to address the growing issue of e-waste.\n"}
{"id": "11433137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11433137", "title": "Space center", "text": "Space center\n\nA space center is a place dedicated to space-related activity. It may be in public or private ownership.\n\nThese activities may concern:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3271100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3271100", "title": "State-building", "text": "State-building\n\nOver the past two decades, state-building has developed into becoming an integral part and even a specific approach to peacebuilding by the international community. Observers across the political and academic spectra have come to see the state-building approach as the preferred strategy to peacebuilding in a number of high-profile conflicts, including the Israeli-Palestinian, Bosnia, Iraq, and Afghanistan. According to the political scientist Anders Persson, internationally led state-building is based on three dimensions: a security dimension, a political dimension and an economic dimension. Of these three, security is almost always considered the first priority.\n\nThe general argument in the academic literature on state-building is that without security, other tasks of state-building are not possible.\nConsequently, when state-building as an approach to peacebuilding is employed in conflict and post-conflict societies, the first priority is to create a safe environment in order to make wider political and economic development possible. So far, the results of using the state-building approach to peacebuilding have been mixed, and in many places, such as in the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq, the initial high expectations set by the international community have not been met. The literature on state-building has always been very clear in that building states has historically been a violent process and the outcomes in the above-mentioned cases and many others confirm the destabilizing and often violent nature of state-building.\n\nThere are two main theoretical approaches to definitions of state-building.\n\nFirst, state-building is seen by some theorists as an activity undertaken by external actors (foreign countries) attempting to build, or re-build, the institutions of a weaker, post-conflict or failing state. This 'exogenous' or International Relations school views state-building as the activity of one country in relation to another, usually following some form of intervention (such as a UN peacekeeping operation).\n\nThe second, developmental, theory followed a set of principles developed by the OECD in 2007 on support to conflict-affected states which identified 'statebuilding' as an area for development assistance. The result saw work commissioned by donor countries on definitions, knowledge and practice in state-building, this work has tended to draw heavily on political science. It has produced definitions that view state-building as an indigenous, national process driven by state-society relations. This view believes that countries cannot do state-building outside their own borders, they can only influence, support or hinder such processes. Illustrations of this approach include a think-piece commissioned for OECD and a research study produced by the Overseas Development Institute.\n\nThe developmental view was expressed in a number of papers commissioned by development agencies. These papers tend to argue that state-building is primarily a 'political' process rather than just a question of technical capacity enhancements and sees state-building as involving a threefold dynamic of: political (usually elite) deals, the prioritization of core government functions and the willingness to respond to public expectations. A further important influence on thinking on states affected by conflict was the World Bank's 2011 World Development Report, which avoided the language of state-building while addressing some related themes.\n\nAcross the two streams of theory and writing there is a broader consensus that lessons on how to support state-building processes have not yet been fully learned. Some believe that supporting state-building requires the fostering of legitimate and sustainable state institutions, but many accept that strategies to achieve this have not yet been fully developed. Little of the post-conflict support to state-building undertaken so far has been entirely successful. From an exogenous perspective, it can be argued that sustained focus on supporting state-building has tended to happen in states frequently characterized by brutalized civilian populations, destroyed economies, institutions, infrastructure, and environments, widely accessible small arms, large numbers of disgruntled soldiers to be demobilized and reintegrated, and ethnically or religiously divided peoples. These obstacles are compounded by the fundamental difficulty of grafting democratic and human rights values onto countries with different political, cultural, and religious heritages. Pluralizing societies is theoretical in its viability for immediate political and economic stability and expediency; ideological overtones can be met with opposition within host nations and issues of self-determination and external state trusteeship and stewarding of nascent institutional reform, or its creation, could damage a tenuous post-conflict national self-identity (for critical analyses of neotrusteeship, see e.g. Ford & Oppenheim, 2012).\n\nBoth schools of thinking have generated critiques and studies seeking to test the propositions made. A more developmental approach with an emphasis on composite state-building processes would have implications for donor programmes, diplomacy and peace-keeping. Some research has tried to test some of the ideas involved and at least one donor agency issued a guidance note for its own programmes. Important critiques were developed by NGOs such as Conciliation Resources and The Asia Foundation, focused primarily on Whaites proposition that a 'political settlement' drives state-building. There have also been attempts to test out the thesis by looking at individual areas of state provision, particularly the area of healthcare. Further research on state–society relations has also been undertaken by groups including the Secure Livelihoods Research Consortium and the Crisis States Research Centre.\n\nWhile some development papers have tried to argue that state-building takes place in all countries and that much can be learnt from successful state-building there is a tendency to narrow the discussion to the most problematic contexts. As a result, much of the literature on state-building is preoccupied with post conflict issues. See e.g. (Dahrendorf, 2003), (The Commission on Post-Conflict Reconstruction, 2003), (Collier, 2003) (Fukuyama, 2004), (Paris, 2004), (Samuels 2005). Critiques common to both schools include inadequate strategy and a lack of coordination, staffing weaknesses, and that funding is insufficient or poorly timed. Moreover, it is increasingly recognized that many of the tasks sought to be achieved are extremely complex and there is little clarity on how to best proceed. For instance, it is extremely difficult to provide security in a conflictual environment, or to disarm, demobilize and reintegrate armies successfully. It remains practically impossible to address vast unemployment in states where the economy is destroyed and there is high illiteracy, or to strengthen the rule of law in a society where it has collapsed. Moreover, the unintended negative consequences of international aid are more and more evident. These range from distortion of the economy to skewing relationship of accountability by the political elite towards internationals rather than domestic population.\n\nThe United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD) determined that basic state capacities are to\n\ni. Assist in the acquisition of new technologies\n\nii. Mobilize and channel resources to productive sectors\n\niii. Enforce standards and regulations\n\niv. Establish social pacts\n\nv. Fund deliver and regulate services and social programmes\n\nStates must be able to create the\n\nWhen developing this infrastructure a state can meet several roadblocks including policy capture from powerful segments of the population, opposition from interest groups, and ethnic and religious division.\nDeveloping countries have tried to implement different forms of government established in advanced democracies. However, these initiatives have not been fully successful. Scholars have looked back at the development of Europe to determine the key factors that helped create bureaucracies that were sustainable throughout the centuries.\n\nWhen studying the development of European states, Charles Tilly identified that European countries engaged in four activities:\n\n\nFor Tilly, these activities are interdependent and rely in the state’s ability to monopolize violence. Before the consolidation of European states, kings relied on their lords’ troops to emerge victorious from war, setting the final boundaries of their territories after years of campaigns. Still, these lords and their private armies could become potential threats to the king’s power during peacetime. Originally, structures were created to facilitate extraction from the king’s subordinates in exchange for protection (from their enemies and from the state), covering the expenses of war campaigns. However, extraction also economically strengthened the states, allowing them to expand their hold over the use violence.\n\nOut of these four activities, war making was the main stimulus to increasing the level of taxation, thus increasing the capacity of the state to extract resources otherwise known as fiscal capacity. The increased capacity of the state to extract taxes from its citizens while facing external threats prompted Jeffrey Herbst to propose allowing failed states to dissolve or engage in war to re-create the process endured by European countries. The process of extraction in exchange for protection was further argued by economic historian Frederic Lane. Lane argued that \"governments are in the business of selling protection... whether people want it or not\". Furthermore, Lane argued that a monopoly was best equipped to produce and control violence. This, he argued, was due to the fact that competition within a monopoly raised costs, and that producing violence renders larger economies of scale. Although the logic was consistent with the predatory theory of the state in early modern Europe, Herbst’s point of view was criticized by several scholars including Richard Joseph who were concerned that the application of predatory theory was an excessive approach of Darwinism. Many have disregarded the limited view of this theory and have instead extended it to include strong external threats of any kind. External threats to the state produce stronger institutional capacities to extract resources from the state.\n\nIn harnessing this increased capacity, Cameron Thies describes the state as a machine that requires a \"driver\" that is able to use the increased capacity to expand influence and power of government. The driver can be state personnel, a dominant class, or a charismatic individual. Without these drivers, the political and military machine of the state has no direction to follow and therefore, without this direction, war and the increased resources extracted from war can not be used for growth. On the other hand, internal wars, i.e. civil wars, have a negative effect on extraction of a state. Internal rivals to the state decrease the state's capacity to unify and extract from its citizens. Rivals usually will bargain with the state to lower their tax burden, gain economic or political privileges.\n\nIn their paper, Douglass North, John Wallis, and Barry Weingast offer an alternative framework - limited access orders - for understanding the predatory role of the state. In limited access orders, entry is restricted in both economic and political systems to produce rents which benefit the ruling elites. In open access orders, entry is open to all. The logic of the open access state is based in impersonality. Both systems are interdependent and are only stable when both have similar access frameworks, either limited or open. Transitioning from a limited access order to an open access order involves difficult, radical changes based on three \"doorstep conditions\": 1) rule of law for elites, 2) perpetual life for organizations, and 3) political control of the military. Once all three initial conditions are satisfied, more incremental changes can be made to move the state further in the direction of an open access order.\n\nIn his study on countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, Joel Migdal presented the necessary and sufficient conditions for establishing a strong state. He considered \"massive societal dislocation\" that weakens old social control and institutions as the necessary condition. Such cases include the Black Death and the Hundred Years' War in Europe, the expansion of world economy into Asia, Africa and Latin America in the 19th century, the combination of war and revolution in China, Korea and Vietnam and mass migration in Taiwan and Israel in the 20th century. Furthermore, he listed the sufficient conditions as follows:\n\nSome commentators have used the term \"nation-building\" interchangeably with \"state-building\" (e.g. Rand report on America's role in nation-building). However, in both major schools of theory the state is the focus of thinking rather than the \"nation\" (\"nation\" conventionally refers to the population itself, as united by identity history, culture and language). The issues debated related to the structures of the state (and its relationship to society) and as result state-building is the more broadly accepted term. In political science 'nation-building' usually has a quite distinct meaning, defined as the process of encouraging a sense of national identity within a given group of people, a definition that relates more to socialisation than state capacity (see the ODI, OECD, and DFID reports cited above).\n\nSimilarly, state-building (nation-building) has at times been conflated with military intervention or regime change. This derives in part from the military actions in Germany and Japan in World War II and resulting states, and became especially prevalent following the military interventions in Afghanistan (October 2001) and Iraq (March 2003). However, the conflation of these two concepts has been highly controversial, and has been used by opposing ideological and political forces to attempt to justify, or reject as an illegal military occupation, the actions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Hence, regime change by outside intervention should be differentiated from state-building.\n\nThere have been some examples of military interventions by international or multilateral actors with a focus on building state capacity, with some of the more recent examples including Bosnia, East Timor, and Sierra Leone. Such interventions are alternatively described as \"neotrusteeship\" or \"neoimperialism\". Under this framework, strong states take over part of all of the governance of territories with underdeveloped existing governing structures, often with the backing of international legal authority. Unlike the classic imperialism of the 19th and early 20th centuries, this type of intervention is aimed at (re)building local state structures and turning over governance to them as quickly as possible. Such efforts vary in the scope of their objectives, however, with some believing that sweeping change can be accomplished through the sufficient and intelligent application of personnel, money, and time, while others believe that any such plans will founder on the inherent unpredictability of interventions and that lengthy, sustained interventions often prevent local leaders from taking responsibility and strengthen insurgent forces.\n\nNeo-trusteeship, shared sovereignty, and other new models of intervention rest on the assumptions that intervention is the most effective strategy for state-building and that countries cannot recover from the failures of government without external interference. However, Jeremy M. Weinstein proposes autonomous recovery exists as a process that offers \"lasting peace, a systematic reduction in violence, and post-war political and economic development in the absence of international intervention.\" The argument suggests that external interference detracts from the state-building by-products produced from war or military victories, given that military intervention makes rebel victories less likely and that peace-building discourages violence. External support undermines the creation of a self-sustaining relationship between rulers or political leaders and its constituents. Foreign aid promotes governments that maintain the same leaders in power and discourages developing a revenue extraction plan that would bind local politicians and local populations. War or military victories create conditions for self-sustaining and representative institutional arrangements through the domestic legitimacy and capacity of state revenue extraction that are by-products of war.\n\nState-building does not automatically guarantee peace-building, a term denoting actions that identify and support structures that strengthen and solidify peace in order to prevent a relapse into conflict. Whilst they have traditionally been considered two individual concepts with a complex relationship giving rise to dilemmas and necessitating trade-offs, as Grävingholt, Gänzle and Ziaja argue, the two actually representative two diverging perspectives on the same issue: a shaky social peace and a breakdown of political order. Whilst the OECD emphasises that peace-building and state-building are not the same, it does recognise the nexus between them and the reinforcement of one component has on the other: 'peace-building is primarily associated with post-conflict environments, and state-building is likely to be a central element of it in order to institutionalise peace'. Paris' model including the peace-building and state-building is one of the better known ones. He advocates an Internationalisation Before Liberalisation (IBL) approach, arguing that peace-building must be geared towards building liberal and effective states, thus 'avoiding the pathologies of liberalization, while placing war-shattered states on a long-term path to democracy and market-oriented economics'.\n\nDespite the advantages of incorporating peace-building and state-building in the same model, applicational limitations should be recognised. In practice, foreign and security policy making still largely treat them as separate issues. Moreover, academics often approach the subjects from different angles. Heathershaw and Lambach caution that in practice, interventions that attempt the ambitious goals that Paris (amongst others) sets out may be coercive and driven by a 'the end justifies the means' outlook. This concern is acute in United Nations peacekeeping missions for there have been instances where peace-builders aspire not only to go a step further and eradicate the causes of violence, which are oftentimes not agree upon by the parties to the conflict, but also to invest 'post-conflict societies with various qualities, including democracy in order to reduce the tendency toward arbitrary power and give voice to all segments of society; the rule of law in order to reduce human rights violations; a market economy free from corruption in order to discourage individuals from believing that the surest path to fortune is by capturing the state; conflict management tools; and a culture of tolerance and respect'. Such ambitious goals are questionable when the United Nations has been seen to struggle in high-profile conflict-ridden situations such as Darfur and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Where it has accomplished a degree of stability such as in Haiti and Liberia, it endures pressure 'to transition from heavy and costly security-oriented peacekeeping operations to lighter, peace-building-oriented missions'. Introducing state-building to mandates is controversial not only because this would entail extra costs and commitments but also because 'the expansion of peacekeeping into these areas has de facto extended the authority of the Security Council, with political, financial, institutional, and bureaucratic implications that have yet to be fully addressed'.\n\nDue to the inherently political nature of state building, interventions to build the state can hinder peace, increasing group tensions and sparking off further conflict. The strength of the consensus that has emerged stressing that 'a minimally functioning state is essential to maintain peace', ignores the complications that poor legitimacy and inclusion can lead to in the future, undermining the whole process. For instance, while the Guatemala Peace Accords were considered successful, 'the formal substance of these agreements has not altered power structures that have been in place for decades (if not centuries) in any substantial manner. The underlying (informal) understanding among elites – that their privileges and hold on power are not to be touched – appears to remain. Therefore, while the Accords may be deemed successful because they prevented the outbreak of war, this 'success' was tainted by the implications made by a subsequent report published by the Commission of Historical Clarification in February 1999. In it 'particular institutions were singled out as responsible for extensive human rights abuses. State institutions were attributed responsibility for 93% of these, and the guerrilla forces 3%. In unexpectedly strong language, the report described Guatemalan governmental policy at the height of the war as a policy of genocide'. The reinforcement of these state institutions as part of the peace-building process taints it by association.\n\nEfforts to \"appease\" or 'buy off' certain interest groups in the interest of peace may undermine state-building exercises, as may power-sharing exercises that could favor the establishment of a political settlement over effective state institutions. Such political settlements could also enshrine power and authority with certain factions within the military, allowing them to carve up state resources to the detriment of state-building exercises. However, in weak states where the government has not sufficient power to control peripheries of the territory, alliances with the elites could strengthen the state's governing power. Yet, these alliances are successful if the agreement is mutually beneficial for the parties e.g. elites's power is threatened by competition and the entitlement of the government would help them to diminish it. In return, the government would acquire information and control over the peripheries' policies. Afghanistan since 2001, is an example of a beneficial pact between government and elites; entitling some select set of warlords as governors yielded a strongman brand of governance in two key provinces.\n\nSometimes peace-building efforts bypass the state in an effort bring peace and development more quickly, for example, it was found that many NGOs in the Democratic Republic of Congo were building schools without involving the state. The state also may be part of the problem and over-reliance on the state by international actors can worsen security inside the country.\n\nConversely, state corruption can mean that state building efforts serve only one ethnic, religious or other minority group, exacerbating tensions that could escalate towards violence. State building can also assist predatory states to strengthen their institutions, reinforcing abusive authority and further fueling grievances and popular resistance.\n\nIn practice, however, there remains confusion over the differences between state-building and peace-building. The UN's High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change stated that \"along with establishing security, the core task of peace-building is to build effective public institutions that, through negotiations with civil society, can establish a consensual framework for governance with the rule of law\". Additionally, a 2004 UN study found that a number of UN officials felt that the establishment of effective and legitimate state institutions was a key indicator of a successful peace operation.\n\nAid is an important part to the development dialogue. In the 1980s and 1990s due to a series of economic crises and unsuccessful attempts in intervention programs in Africa, Latin America, and Eastern Europe, the international community shifted towards a market-oriented model of foreign aid. Donor countries believed that a reduction in the size and the reach of the state could provide a more efficient outcome. However, the success of East Asia, East Europe, Brazil, and India has suggested even market economies require a capable state to grow sustainably. Moreover, international donors became concerned over seriously malfunctioning states in the 1990s, i.e. Sierra Leone and Afghanistan.\n\nEconomic historians Noel Johnson and Mark Koyama define state capacity as \"the \"ability\" of a state to collect taxes, enforce law and order, and provide public goods.\" There are, however, various definitions of state capacity among scholars. Berwick and Fotini consolidate the literature of state capacity into 3 different domains: extractive capacity, governmental capacity, and regulatory-productive capacity:\nState capacity is widely cited as an essential element to why some countries are rich and others are not: \"It has been established that the richest countries in the world are characterized by long-lasting and centralized political institutions\"; \"that poverty is particularly widespread and intractable in countries that lack a history of centralized government... and are internally fragmented\"; \"and countries with weak state capacity are particularly vulnerable to civil war and internal conflict\".\n\nPritchett, Woolcock & Andrews (2013) offer a criticism of why state building fails to work. They claim that many countries are in a capability trap – countries are, at most, converging at a very low pace to the same levels of state capacity. They estimate that on average, it would take 672 years for the bottom 15 countries to reach the state capability level of the best performer if their capabilities keep growing at the same average rate with which they have grown since their political independence. Other indexes suggest that countries are not catching up: the bureaucratic quality and corruption index from the International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) have a negative pace of growth for the bottom 30 countries. The authors argue that the capability trap shows that external assistance to increase state capacity have not been successful in accelerating the development process. They identify that this implementation failure may occur through two techniques: i) \"systemic isomorphic mimicry\", by which the structures of institutions are imitated (specific rules are followed) but they do not serve purposes functional to the society; and ii) \"premature load bearing\", in which the pressure exerted by outsiders undermines the organic evolution of local institutions.\n\nThe term \"state\" can be used to mean both a geographic sovereign political entity with a permanent population, a defined territory, a government, and the capacity to enter into relations with the other states, as defined under international law (Montevideo Convention on the Rights and Duties of States, December 26, 1933, Article 1), as well as a set of social institutions claiming a monopoly of the legitimate use of force within a given territory (Max Weber, 1919).\n\nFor the purposes of state-building in environments of instability, the sub-structures of states can be defined as a political regime (or system of government), a governance framework (or constitution), and a set of state institutions (or organizations) such as the armed forces, the parliament, and the justice system. State capacity refers to the strength and capability of the state institutions. Nation conventionally refers to the population itself, as united by identity, history, culture, and language.\n\nGovernments that have implemented the top-down method present the idea that there is a great external threat that can diminish the capabilities of a state and its citizens. The perceived threat creates an incentive that focuses policy, make elites cooperate, and facilitates the adoption of a nationalistic ideology. In an authoritarian government, political, military, and ideological power is concentrated to be conducive to policy continuation. The bureaucracies implemented are well trained, well paid, and highly competitive in recruitment and promotion. Economically successful states in East Asia have taken on programs to create infrastructure, subsidize the farming sector, provide credit, support spending on targeted research, and invest in health and education. However, most governments are non-developmental and unstable. Furthermore, even when countries have tried to pursue authoritarian strategies that have worked, specifically Brazil, a divided military, regional oligarchs in power, and vast disparities in inequality delegitimized the regime.\n\nA democratic regime engages citizens more actively than a top-down government. It respects the right of citizen to contest policies. Successful democracies developed political capacities by nurturing active citizenship, maintaining electoral competitiveness that gave value to the votes of the poor, fostered political parties that were strongly oriented towards equality, and had strong party-social movement ties.\n\nWhile many specific techniques exist for creating a successful state-building strategy, three specific approaches have been identified by the recent 2010 UNRISD report. These three approaches would all fall under the endogenous school of thinking, and are: Good Governance, New Public Management, and Decentralization.\n\nGood governance is a very broadly used term for successful ways a government can create public institutions that protect people’s rights. There has been a shift in good governance ideals, and as Kahn states, \"The dominant 'good governance' paradigm identifies a series of capabilities that, it argues are necessary governance capabilities for a market-friendly state. These include, in particular, the capabilities to protect stable property rights, enforce the rule of law, effectively implement anti-corruption policies and achieve government accountability.\"\nThis good governance paradigm is a market-enhancing process which emerged in the 1990s. This approach involves enforcing the rule of law, creating stronger property rights, and reducing corruption. By focusing on improving these three traits, a country can improve its market efficiency. There is a theoretical cycle of market failure which explains how a lack of property rights and strong corruption, among other problems, leads to market failure:\n\n\nWhile it is understood that improving rule of law and reducing corruption are important methods to increasing the stability and legitimacy of a government, it is not certain whether this approach is a good basis for a state building approach. Researchers have looked at this approach by measuring property rights, regulatory quality, corruption, and voice and accountability. There was little correlation found between increasing property rights and growth rates per capita GDP. Similarly, there is disagreement among development researchers as to whether it is more beneficial to promote comprehensive set of reforms or to promote a minimal set of necessary reforms in contexts of poor institutionalization. Proponents of the former approach have put forward the concept of \"good enough governance\".\n\nIn response to the unsuccessful attempts to strengthen government administrations, developing countries began to adopt market-oriented managerial reforms under the pressure of the IMF and the World Bank. New Public Management approach first emerged in New Zealand and the United Kingdom in the 1980s. New Public management uses market like reforms within the public sector to provide the government with the necessary power to implement a development plan on the economy while also using competitive market-based techniques to enhance public sector production. It changed public sector employment practices from career tenure positions towards limited-term contracts for senior staff, locally determined pay, and performance-related pay. Secondly, the provision of government services shifted towards contracts, franchising, vouchers, and user charges in an effort to promote efficiency in service provision to citizens.\n\nIn this type of government, large bureaucracies within a ministry (the principal) no longer maintain their hierarchical structure but rather are composed of operational arms of ministries that perform the role of an individual agent. The strategy has been more prominent in liberal market-driven policy regimes like New Zealand, United Kingdom, and the United States. Continental Europe has been more resistant to implementing this type of policy. In developing countries, the implementation of these types of infrastructure has been difficult because the markets for the delivery of services are imperfect and increase the danger of regulatory capture by companies. For successful implementation, governments must have the infrastructure to measure reliable performance indicators and the capacity to regulate the behavior of private providers.\n\nIn reference to state building approaches decentralization is beneficial because \"It seeks to reduce rent-seeking behavior and inefficient resource allocation associated with centralized power by dispersing such power to lower levels of government, where the poor are likely to exercise influence and a variety of actors may participate in the provision of services\".\n\nLimitations to decentralization are the reduction of the meritocratic basis can limit the state's capacity to serve citizens, limited control of the fiscal funds at the local level can prevent effectiveness, and substantial inequalities in fiscal capacity among different regions can create ineffective redistribution of resources. Therefore, for these policies to work, there must be coordination efforts to ensure that growth-oriented and redistributive strategies initiated at the central government are implemented regionally. Furthermore, government elites must be in favor of low-income groups and grass root groups should be able to engage with local authorities during policy making.\n\nEuropean states replicated or bequeathed their institutions in the territories they colonized, but many new emerging states have evolved differently. European states consolidated after long years of internal and external struggles that greatly differ in context from the struggles of some recently emerged states.\n\nKosovo has gone through extensive state building by the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), that assumed all executive, legislative and judicial powers in 1999, aiming to restore order, stability and peace in the turbulent region. This is a unique example of state-building that is directly administered by external actors, the effectiveness of which is to this date contested. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kosovo, Enver Hoxhaj claimed Kosovo is the most successful state-building example in the region, as its transition from war and genocide, to peace and progress has been remarkable. The developmental progress of Kosovo is apparent in its new institutional framework, that although initially centrally planned and administered by the UNMIK, has gradually transferred competencies to relevant national bodies and relevant institutions. The 2012 Report of the Secretary-General on the UNMIK claims of 'encouraging signals of commitment by the parties to engaging with one another through peaceful means and dialogue to resolve their differences'. Yet Kosovo remains a \"black hole\" in Europe, being a semi-consolidated authoritarian regime, noting high levels of corruption, crime and unemployment, casting doubts over the extent to which state-building was successful. Arguably, the state is still overly dependent on international aid and external assistance for its economy, part of which is still linked to networks of the old war economy.\n\nExtensive state building\n\nLatin America experienced a period of rapid economic growth and political stability in the late-19th century, following independence and subsequent decades of decline caused by violence, reduced state-capacity, and fiscal fragmentation. This trajectory is markedly successful relative to other post-conflict societies at the time. Differences can be attributed to the demography of Latin America compared to other newly-independent European colonies, the massive European presence in Latin America, the collapse of indigenous institutions, and the death of indigenous populations - unparalleled at the time. Latin Americans also enacted a number of liberal public policies swiftly and effectively, such as abolition of slavery (Saint-Domingue in 1793, Haiti in 1804, New Spain in 1813, Peru in 1854, Brazil in 1888), socializing property rights over land, and eliminating public monopolies, which fostered long-term stability that facilitated economic growth and established a new political economy for these new nations. The growth and stability seen in Latin America, however, did come at a high social cost in the form of social inequality that continued into the 21st century.\n\nIn the 21st century it became economically and politically difficult for Latin American countries to increase revenues, which led states to turn to debt for the necessary resources to pay for war. As a result, Latin American countries did not establish the same tax basis that their European counterparts did. This can be explained by the predatory theory. Studies on the extraction of tax revenues have demonstrated that both external and internal rivals affect the ability of a state to develop and extract resources from its citizens. Interstate rivals had a positive effect on the state's capacity to extract resources while intrastate rivals had a negative effect on state building.\n\nTilly's theory that external threats strengthen the state's capacity to extract taxes from its citizens can apply to developing countries in Africa. The presence of both external state rivals and internal ethnic rivals prompted states to increase their extraction of taxes from citizens while internal political rivals failed to affect the extraction of taxes. The leaders in power try to maintain their position by catering to the majority ethnic group and by increasing taxes to gain the resources to diminish threats from minority ethnic groups. Thus the presence of internal ethnic rivals creates the capacity to significantly increase the tax ratio.\n\nDrawing on Charles Tilly's theory of European state formation, a number of scholars have suggested that in focusing on internal rivalries, rather than challenging colonial borders, rulers were \"less likely to see their economies as a resource to be nurtured than as an object of periodic plunder—the analogy to Olson's (1993) roving bandits should be clear\" (Thies, 2004: 58). In the absence of external threats, rulers thus had no impetus to replicate the patterns described by Tilly—war making, coercion, resource extraction—that had proven crucial to the process of centralization of power in the states of Europe.\n\nFor example, in \"\" (2000), Jeffrey Herbst explains that \"domestic security threats, of the type African countries face so often, may force the state to increase revenue; however, civil conflicts result in fragmentation and considerable hostility among different segments of the population\", undermining the state's ability to rally the population's support for the \"national project\" (2000: 126). In a later article, Herbst argues that war in Europe lead to strong states and that without war African states will remain weak. In Europe, external threats allowed states to tax, increase taxation, and forge a national identity. Additionally, the states that were invaded and taken over (such as Poland-Lithuania or Ireland) by stronger countries were militarily and politically weak. African states are poor, have weak governments, and are fragmented on ethnic or regional lines. According to theory, these weak African states should be susceptible to external threats, but this is not the case. In Africa, Herbst notes, there are rarely conflicts between states, and if there are, war does not threaten the existence of the state. For example, in the 1979 Uganda-Tanzania War, Tanzania invaded Uganda to overthrow Idi Amin, but after the Tanzanians had removed Amin, they left the country. Although African states do not experience widespread interstate war, Herbst argues they need it to reform the tax structure and to build a national identity. Herbst concludes that war in Africa is likely to occur when African leaders realize that their economic reforms and efforts to build a national identity do not work and in desperation will start wars to build the states that their countries need. James Robinson disagrees with Herbst in the grade of influence of war on state-building, stating that European colonization and European influences in the continent impacted more deeply the creation of institutions, and therefore, states in Africa.\n\nSeveral researchers have emphasized that the internal violence seen in Africa was characteristic for early modern European politics and that this type of structure may resolve to produce an increased level of political order. A number of scholars have criticized this claim for its \"excessively Darwinian\", overly deterministic and Euro-centric understanding of the process of state-formation (Thies, 2004: 69, see also Joseph, 1997).\n\nThe international intervention which culminated in renewed conflict in South Sudan is cited as an example of a flawed application of international state-building. On July 9, 2011, with unilateral support from the United Nations Security Council and the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD), the nation of South Sudan was officially recognized as an independent Sovereign, forged by an alliance of rebel groups. The process of building this state, however, had begun in 2005 with the proclamation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), a militarist agreement forged among warlords to establish a military dictatorship in South Sudan. The United States, Britain, Norway, and the IGAD conceptualized and facilitated the process as the solution to the ongoing Second Sudanese Civil War of 1983 to 2005. This agreement rested on an assumption that the terms of a peace agreement should be determined solely by military leaders. Later, in 2010, an attempt was made to include political leaders in the state-building process through the All South Sudanese Political Parties convention, which ultimately resolved to create a transitional government with representation from all major political factions, with a goal of hosting free and fair elections within two years of independence. However, the transitional government never kept these terms, and South Sudan subsequently devolved into fierce ethnic conflict and civil war. Mahmood Mamdani asserts that this renewed violence was caused by the blatant disregard that South Sudan's rulers have shown for the peace treaties, due to a perception of reassurance through unconditional international support. The treaties have in effect become, as Jeffrey Herbst describes, unenforceable contracts.\n\nMamdani and other scholars have called for the establishment of a new transitional process, through a neotrusteeship facilitated by the African Union (AU). They cite the successful resolution of the Gambian post-election crisis to assert that the AU is the only international institution with the credibility and regional representation required to effectively manage the crisis. They assert that this new transition should exclude all participants from the first failed government, should be jointly mandated by the AU and the UN, and should be funded by the United States, Norway, and Britain as an admission of their past failures.\n\nThe Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) claims sovereignty over the Palestinian Territories whose legal statehood is somewhat widely recognized (though not by some major global powers), as well as representative status over the Palestinian people, a claim that is universally recognized. However, it does not have sole jurisdiction over the areas it claims. In addition, many of those it aims to represent currently reside elsewhere, most notably in Arab countries such as Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria. Nonetheless, the PLO and other Palestinian organisations have historically made great efforts to install institutions of a type commonly associated with states in the Palestinian territories - as well as in countries with large numbers of Palestinian residents. Examples include:\n\n\nDespite the break-down of the Oslo process of 1993-2000 and the ongoing construction of Israeli settlements (1967 to present), the Palestinian National Authority continues to engage in state-building activities in its territories and has referred to the \"State of Palestine\" in official documents since 2013. In 2003 the United Nations Security Council passed UN Resolution 1515, calling for the \"establishment of an independent, democratic and viable Palestinian state\". Despite this official acknowledgement of the legitimacy of PNA state-building by the international community, a 2011 report prepared by the London-based Overseas Development Institute found international assistance to have been \"sporadic and fragmented\". Besides the lack of consistent outside support, the report identified key challenges to Palestinian state-building at the international level, including the lack of horizon on \"final status\" negotiations, failed peace negotiations, the tightening of the occupation, and the weak economic base, in addition to profound challenges at the domestic level, including:\n\n\nA number of scholars have questioned whether the Palestinian Authority was ever in a position to build a viable state. Edward Said, Neve Gordon and Sara Roy – among others – have argued that the PNA was designed as an \"occupation subcontractor\", only strengthening the power asymmetries between occupier and occupied.\nAnother strand of analysis, associated with Jamil Hilal and Mushtaq Khan (2004), portrays the PNA as a \"transitional client quasi-state\", stuck in a situation where core functions of the state remain in the hands of the Israeli state. They identify structural issues within the Oslo process and disunity and corruption prevalent among the Palestinian elite as key reasons for the failure of Palestinian state-building efforts.\n\nBased on kernels of tribalism, fundamentalist religious ideology (Wahhabist Islam) and monarchical dynastic control,\nSaudi Arabia formed as a 20th-century state with the support of tax revenues and military development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44978241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44978241", "title": "Suh Kyung-bae", "text": "Suh Kyung-bae\n\nSuh Kyung-bae (born 1963) is a South Korean businessman. He is the chairman of AmorePacific Corporation, a Seoul-based cosmetics company founded by his father Suh Sung-hwan in 1945. As of 2016, he is the second-richest man in Korea.\n\nSuh Kyung-bae was born in South Korea in 1963. He received a bachelor's degree from Yonsei University, and an MBA from Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.\n\nIn 1997, Suh inherited AmorePacific Corporation from his father. According to \"Forbes\", Suh has a net worth of $7.3 billion as of November 2016.\n\nSuh is married with two children and lives in Seoul.\n"}
{"id": "50854659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50854659", "title": "Sulaiman Ninam Shah", "text": "Sulaiman Ninam Shah\n\nTun Sulaiman bin Ninam Shah (2 January 1920 – 5 July 2003) was the Deputy President of the Dewan Negara, serving as Deputy President from 14 December 1982 to 1 April 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "29792853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29792853", "title": "The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism", "text": "The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism\n\nThe Spirit of Democratic Capitalism is a 1982 book by philosopher Michael Novak, in which Novak aims to understand and analyze the theological assumptions of democratic capitalism, its spirit, it values, and its intentions. Novak defines democratic capitalism as a pluralistic social system that contrasts with the unitary state of the traditional society and the modern socialist state. He analyzes it as a differentiation of society into three power centers: a political sector, an economic sector, and a moral-cultural sector. Each sector needs the others. Democracy needs the market economy and both need a pluralistic liberal culture. Against the continuing growth of democratic capitalism, modern socialism has contracted from a robust utopian program into vague “idealism about equality” and overwrought criticism of capitalism, most notably in the “liberation theology” of Latin America. Novak ends with the “beginnings of a theological perspective on democratic capitalism” illuminated by the journey from Marxism to realism of Reinhold Niebuhr.\n\nIrving Kristol described Novak's book as “unquestionably a major work for our times.” The Spanish translation of the book served as inspiration for the Chilean lawyer and politician Jaime Guzmán where he was not satisfied by Hayeks thought.\n\nNo theologian “has yet assessed the theological significance of democratic capitalism”,(p13) the society of “three dynamic and converging systems functioning as one: a democratic polity, an economy based on markets and incentives, and a moral-cultural system which is pluralistic and, in the largest sense, liberal.”(p14) The link is not an accident. You can only have democracy with a market economy, nourishing and nourished by a pluralistic liberal culture: a threefold system.\n\nDemocratic capitalism requires economic growth, the “belief of all individuals that they can better their condition.”(p15) Without growth and social mobility democracy devolves into the Hobbesian “war of all against all.”\n\nThe treatments of democratic capitalism by religious writers, in papal encyclicals and mainline Protestant theology, have not really understood its essence. So democratic capitalism needs a moral theory about itself, to define a “political economy most consonant with Judaic tradition and the Christian gospels”.(p20)\n\nCapitalism is neither Heaven nor Hell. “Yet all other known systems of political economy are worse.”(p28)\n\nPeople hate capitalism; its successes do not impress the “poets and philosophers and priests”(p31) “The more it succeeds, the more it fails.”(p32) Intellectuals indict capitalism for all kinds of sins: affluence, moral weakness, and vulgar taste. The intellectuals that do defend capitalism have not made a broad enough case.\n\n“What is the spirit of democratic capitalism?”(p36) Max Weber saw that commerce takes on a new meaning, or spirit in capitalist countries. Capitalism’s spirit required free labor, practical intelligence, planned and organized for profit in a continuous enterprise in a stable network of law operating mainly in cities and towns.\n\nBut Weber did not see the “necessary connection between economic liberty and political liberty.”(p45) It is not just “an economic system dependent upon a moral spirit”.(p46) Rather than being an “iron cage” “democratic capitalism is demonstrably open”(p47); it reinvents itself constantly. “The spirit of democratic capitalism is the spirit of development, experiment, adventure. It surrenders present security for future betterment. In differentiating the economic system from the state, it introduced a novel pluralism into the very center of the social system.”(p48)\n\nThe big idea in democratic capitalism is pluralism. A traditionalist or socialist society “imposes a collective sense of what is good and true... exercised by one set of authorities.”(p49) But can society work if no-one is in control? Many people, from Solzhenitsyn to popes, find such a society immoral and chaotic. Social scientists find it sickening, as producing anomie, alienation, etc.\n\nThe founders of democratic capitalism “feared absolutism more than they feared pluralism.”(p52) In a plural society, people can question things. One can step out from under one’s “sacred canopy” and experiences “culture shock.” “In a genuinely pluralistic society, there is no one sacred canopy.”(p53) Society is renewed by crises of conscience, the “taproot of democratic capitalism.”(p55) Pluralism avoids the single “sacred canopy” \"by design\".\n\nThe founders deliberately separated economic institutions from the state, and limit the power of clerical and state bureaucrats to meddle in the economy. Political activists compete in the political sector, economic activists in the economic sector and religious and intellectual activists in the moral-cultural sector. \"By design\" it is hard for any one person to get power over all three sectors. But the three sectors need each other. Capitalism needs a moral culture to nourish “self-restraint, hard work, discipline and sacrifice”(p57) and a political system committed to limited government, a sound currency, and regulation of competition.\n\nThe authors of \"The Federalist Papers\" wanted to avoid the tyranny of the majority, so they constructed a political “system which would empower many factions and interests.”(p58) No single group would be trusted with the common good, but gathered together, the combination of interests should “strike not to far off the mark.”(p58) But this practical wisdom has been preempted by the utilitarians, and then accused by idealists of being merely utilitarian “interest-group liberalism.” Novak prefers to use his own Thomist tradition, recognizing the “dangers inherent in idealism, the uniqueness of the person, and the special advantages of the practical... order.”(p59)\n\nWe are born into a social world, into families, and only later become individuals. The system of the founders institutionalizes this in three steps. First it recognizes that all right-thinking people of goodwill do not hold the same moral vision. The second thing is to differentiate “between and \"individual\" and a \"person\".”(p63) “Personhood entails the right--the \"vocation\"--to be different. Third, it calls for a secular or civic faith. Thus the US Constitution: “a practical, rather than creedal, vision of the good society.”(p66) It does less than command the socialist virtues; it does more than license =mere interest group horse-trading.\n\n“A democratic capitalist society is, in principle, uncommitted to any one vision of a social order.”(p67) Therefore, moral-cultural institutions belong to the system, but they must not \"command\" the system. Religious bodies have a role. “But it is neither in command nor at the center.”(p69)\n\nDemocratic capitalism has a particular view of history. It is the notion of “emergent probability.” It thinks of the world as an emerging system of goods of order as developed by Bernard Lonergan. Adam Smith’s The Wealth of Nations was an attempt to understand how the world might be organized to provide such goods “so as to raise the wealth of all nations.”(p77) It proposed organizing the world not from the top down but from the bottom up, “to empower the rationality of every individual.”(p79) It is not sufficient, but it is necessary.\n\n“Political economy must deal with humans as they are”,(p82) including evil. Each system identifies the greatest evil. For traditional societies it is disorder, for socialist societies, inequality, for democratic capitalist societies it is tyranny.\n\nIn democratic capitalism we turn attention from “the moral intentions of individuals and toward the final social consequences of their actions.”(p89) This results in affording high status to commerce and industry. The clergy is fanatic, the military plundering, the nobles proud and belligerent, the state parasitic. But commerce aligns with liberty, requires a “healthy realism” and is insensitive to station and class, and it provides a center of power separate from politics.\n\nLeftists accuse capitalism of institutionalizing selfishness and greed. But “self-interest” is something more. Quoting Milton and Rose Friedman: “Self-interest is not myopic selfishness. It is whatever it is that interests the participants, whatever they value, whatever goals they pursue.”(p94) It includes interest in the religious, moral, scientific and just. Democratic capitalism recognizes that sinfulness cannot be eradicated. It tries to make sinful tendencies productive and creative.\n\nWhen Thomas Aquinas abandoned God as \"Nous\" for \"Providence\" he created a problem for politics: “how can political economy be Provident?”(p96) It takes more than theory; it takes practical intelligence and wisdom in as it relates to “time, the market, the so-called invisible hand, profit, and the zero-sum society”(p97).\n\nUnder democratic capitalism \"time\" takes on a new meaning. People start looking forward to the future instead of back to the past. They break out of eternal cycles and experiment. Time is money, and people are advised not to waste it. Religion becomes activist rather than meditative. When people become concerned about time as an asset, they intelligently organize life into time saving habits. Such practical intelligence increases wealth. “Practical insights are the primary cause of wealth.”(p103)\n\nIntuitively, when millions of people enter the marketplace the result must be anarchy. “Traditionalists and socialists... occupy the commanding heights and try to impose order.”(p104) In fact, economic activism promotes order; under scarcity people need one another, and must coordinate their activities through the price system. Adam Smith’s metaphor of the “invisible hand” tells us is that the motives of individuals do not determine the social result of their actions. There seems to be an order, a system “beneath the seeming individuality of individual choices.”(p114) Rational order may exist without rational commands from on high.\n\nMarkets always get a bad press: Mammon, usury, and incompatibility with humane values, and so on. But commercial values furnish “a school of virtue favorable to democratic governance.”(p117) It encourages “the cooperative spirit”, the “attention to law”, self-determination, limited government and encouragement to industry, the discipline of common sense, attention to the small savings and small gains that power economic growth. It breaks the utopian vision that fails to deliver. It is “proportioned to man as he is, not as dreams would have him”.(p118) But there are losses, to old communal ties and the heroic spirit. “Commercial virtues are not, then, sufficient to their own defense. [It] needs taming and correction by a moral-cultural system... [and] by the political system and the state.”(p121)\n\nThe socialist ideal is the quest for “security and equality”, the capitalist for “self-improvement and growth”.(p123) But risks cannot be avoided in making the world predictable and safe. It creates a zero-sum society foredoomed to failure. Democratic capitalism, committed to growth offers the hope of a larger future to all. It is not utopian, but it offers “a practical wisdom worthy of admiration”(p126), a “plain sort of wisdom suited to this world.”(p126)\n\nThe meaning of community in traditional society is clear. “Yet pluralistic societies develop their own powerful forms of community... of free persons in voluntary association.”(p129) This community is “accessible to all human beings without exception” in the \"world\". Democratic capitalism has developed “a novel social instrument: the voluntary association committed to business enterprise, the \"corporation\".”(p130) I.e., the flagship institution of capitalism is social, corporate. Commercial civilization is \"interdependent\". The community depends on an ethos of cooperation. “Cultures in which individuals are not taught how to cooperate, compromise, and discipline themselves to practical communal tasks can make neither democratic politics nor market economies work.”(p134)\n\n“Between individualism and collectivism, there is a third way: a rich pattern of association.”(p135) It is a community of “colleagueship... an ethos of association, teamwork, and collaboration, oriented towards goals, voluntarily entered into.”(p138) And these associations make the conventional notions of “‘the consumer society’, ‘greed’, and ‘materialism’ seem very wide of the mark.”(p141) Democratic capitalism aims to guarantee the pursuit of happiness. Humans being social animals, they must “build decent and even affective relations among those who work together”(p142) in that pursuit.\n\nEveryone knows that the term “bourgeois” is not a compliment. Yet when democratic socialists list the values of their society they sound middle-class. Perhaps the problem occurs because the supporters of democratic capitalism advertise themselves as individualists when, “under the mask” they are profoundly communitarian. In Adam Smith’s \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\" he emphasizes “fellow feeling, common sympathy, and benevolence”,(p145) while \"The Wealth of Nations\" he condones “self-love and self-interest.”\n\nBut who isn’t bourgeois, i.e., own their home and private property, these days? Small businessmen, pension plan participants, academic critics. The game is to “redefine the bourgeoisie to fit the Marxian scheme in which one class oppresses another.”(p151) It ends up defining the elite as an elite. What’s the problem? A bourgeois has “\"economic independence\"... \"owns property\"... shares the \"cultural life of the city\"”(p152) And the bourgeoisie is open to all. A noble can descend and join it, and a peasant or proletarian can aspire and rise to it. The bourgeoisie practice high standards and competitive habits. Nor is it particularly “self-satisfied, secure, or smug.”(p153) Middle class culture makes fun of the middle class. “Latin American liberation theologians and others.. may threaten retribution upon the bourgeois class, but... they also appeal to the \"ideals\" of the middle class”.(p154) “Bourgeois life is thick with activism, volunteerism, and mutual association.”(p154) And it is prepared to listen to criticism.\n\nAlthough democratic capitalism is “designed to function with minimal dependence upon virtuous motives... [it] cannot function at all without certain moral strengths, rooted in institutions like the family.”(p156) Yet many critics are hostile to what they call the “nostalgic family.” They attack on three axes: economic, political, and moral-cultural.\n\nEven libertarians center their analysis on the free individual and “rational self-interest.” But “in ordinary experience, our own economic starting place in life is given us by our families.”(p161) We have been thrown into life as “familial animals” for the “family is the major carrier of culture, transmitting ancient values and lessons... motivations... judgement... emotion, preferences and inclinations.”(p161) “In the long run, the individual economic agent is dead. Only his progeny survive to enjoy the fruits of his labors, intelligence and concern.”(p163)\n\n“But if the family is a form of socialism which corrects the exaggerated individualism of capitalist economists, it is also a form of liberty which corrects the exaggerated collectivism of statists.”(p163) “The more the state invades the family, the less likely the prospect of self-government.”(p165)\n\nThe family is the first defense against utopianism. “Those who seek moral perfection, full self-fulfillment, high happiness” are opposed to “the constraints of matrimony and childrearing.”(p167) The family is nature’s school of virtue. It teaches humility, “ordinary heroism,” self-governance, self-discipline, and critical judgment. The bourgeois family is different from the aristocratic family and its inherited status, the peasant family, the extended ethnic family. It is pluralistic, adaptable, nuclear, trans-cultural. And now it must deal with the post-bourgeois elite family that wants to “find” rather than “better” itself. “When self-government is no longer an ideal for individuals, it cannot be credible for the republic.”(p170)\n\nThe pluralism of democratic capitalism affects everything, and not least the rivalries between the three systems: political, economic, and moral-cultural. Each has its ethos and creates problems for the other two. This is by design, for the energy of conflict powers progress and correction. “It is a system intended to constitute a continuous revolution.”(p172)\n\nThe political system is separate from the moral-cultural system, but “clergymen and journalists, preachers and professors often place enormous pressures on the state”(p172) on behalf of their moral vision. The political system is also separate from the economic system, yet profoundly affected by it. Still, the political system also has enormous power over the economic system, through the people that work for it and those dependent on the political system for “grants, payments, and favors”(p173). Legislative action has politicized moral and cultural issues from regulation of business to the role of women, homosexuality, abortion, real estate, busing, and educational experiments. “The political system... encroaches significantly upon the economic system and the moral-cultural system.”(p174)\n\nLeaders of both the political and moral-cultural system combine in harsh criticism of the economic system. Their exaggerations omit what the economic system has done for democracy and for providing the wealth to found schools, churches, foundations, and freedom for artists and preachers. Many critics fault capitalism for lack of democracy, as if it is appropriate for “every inquiry and action.”(p175) But well-managed corporations all use the principle of subsidiarity, pushing decisions down the hierarchy. The economic system creates problems for government because it is designed to. “The virtues it requires, and the virtues it nourishes, are indispensable to a self-governing polity and to a sound morality.”(p181)\n\nThe moral-cultural system in the United States seems “the lest developed, most neglected, mot delinquent system... and it has become the most powerful, most ambitious, most dominating system.”(p182) It has many strengths, vibrant churches, arts, and moral movements. Ideas have consequences, and moral-cultural power is subject to the same temptations as economic and political power if attempts “to dominate both the state and the economy.” Two temptations are the power and status available to those that help grow the state, and the notoriety available to those that debunk institutions and values that stand in the way of their own morality, culture, and politics.\n\nWhat does socialism stand for today? It seems to have shrunk to “idealism about equality... and hostility towards democratic capitalism”(p189) rather than the grand program of the “abolition of private property... state ownership of the means of production... abolition of ‘bourgeois democracy’... and an international order... transcending... frontiers... abolition of profit, abolition of imperialism... ‘socialist man.’”(p190) In many ways, socialism has failed. in the economic sphere, nationalized industries, collectivized agriculture, administered prices and wages. In the political sphere, “the centralized administrative state has proved to be a more thorough instrument of oppression and exploitation than the democratic capitalist state.”(p191) In the moral-cultural sphere socialism fails to tolerate “the broad range of dissent, human liberties, and human rights achieved in the democratic capitalist states.”(p191) Serious thinkers like C. Wright Mills and Leszek Kołakowski admit that socialism is seriously discredited. It survives as “a mobilizing stencil for grievances... and to love as a ‘totalitarian political movement.’”(p195)\n\n“Socialists seem to be in retreat both from theory and from program.”(p197) They define socialism as a set of moral injunctions on poverty, inequality, and democracy. The young Novak thought of socialism as idealism; capitalism worked better, but it was “an inferior ideal.”(p198) Yet Jacques Maritain found Americans, in the crucible of capitalism, “the most humane and the least materialist among modern [industrialized] peoples”.(p199) Novak came to see something else. Socialism required no moral heroism in him. If it failed, the workers and the poor would suffer most.\n\nSocialism may seem to be an injunction on poverty, inequality in freedom of action, and basic needs, but it pretty soon becomes “raising up the poor and pulling down the rich.”(p202) It allows a monstrous government and ignores the source of economic dynamism—serious intellectual errors. Democratic capitalism can do all this, but balances the competing injunctions—especially the question of “[w]ho will govern government?”(p203) Anyway, “equal freedom of action for all” is impossible. Without an ear for music, you cannot compete in music, etc. Socialists see inequality as an affront; democratic capitalists see talent as a responsibility.\n\nOne way in which socialists dodge its failure is a commitment to “democratic control” of the means of production. The fact is that participatory democracy does not work in the moral-cultural realm—religion, arts, literature—or in the economic realm of economic choices about the future. Most people don’t want to spend long hours in “participation,” although the US excels already in associations, committees and groups.\n\nEven though “[M]ost democratic socialists recognize that strict equality of incomes is unworkable and also unjust”,(p211) extreme disparities seem to be “immoral.” Small entrepreneurs are OK but corporate salaries are “obscene.” There is a need for “moral restraint”. Still, the extravagance of the rich is the difference between socialist drabness and urban brightness and gaiety. The rich pay for foundations that employ scholars, museums, galleries, universities, new business and technology investments. In democratic capitalism you can change your life with skill and luck; in socialism the “only path upward is political favor.”\n\nSuppose we accept the idea of democratic socialists that highly skilled workers only earn eight times the wage of the lowest paid, as in Cuba? Actually in the United States in 1979 the top five percent earned a little less than seven times the average income of the lowest 20 percent. But 0.5 percent earn more than 10 times the poorest. Democratic socialists call this a scandal; democratic capitalists do not, because these higher incomes don’t hurt the lower paid and a society with unlimited incomes is “more dynamic, freer, more generous, more colorful”(217) than one without. And, of course, the rich pay a lot more in taxes.\n\nA special problem for the United States is the relative poverty of blacks relative to whites. Leftist Democrats insist on government programs rather than “personal initiative.” Actually, according to Thomas Sowell, most blacks are “disciplined, ambitious, hardworking, and conscientious in seizing opportunity.(p219) In the long view, blacks have done well. In 1900 blacks lived under segregation in the poorest part of the country. Today, “Black households with two parents under age thirty-five, \"living in the North\", do better than equivalent white households.”(p221) Still, blacks demonstrate more social pathology than whites. A catalyst is necessary. “The spirit of democratic socialism... seems designed to prevent such a catalyst from ever emerging.”(p224)\n\nThough socialists are hostile to transnational corporations, in early 1980 socialist leader Robert Mugabe wanted to welcome them to Zimbabwe. For Mugabe, “socialism accepts the brotherhood of man.”(p225) But what are the corporation, the labor union, banking, the stock exchange if not communal, depending on trust beyond force, contracts, and law? Critics accuse transnational corporations of wanting to manage the world and various other crimes against developing nations. “‘Manage the world’ is the aim of socialism, not the aim of market systems.”(p228) Anyway, if economic aid comes not through corporations, then what? All criticisms of corporations come down to: compared to what?\n\nA huge task awaits theologians in thinking theologically about economic reality at three levels. They must understand \"economic reality\" (scarcity, work, money, capital accumulation, etc.) in every economic system in every age. They must understand the specific \"systems\" on offer, from feudalism to mercantilism to capitalism and socialism. Then they must understand the details, the moral and ethical dilemmas that “occur \"within\" particular systems.”(p240) Novak’s book is intended to fill the vacuum in understanding democratic capitalism, for he thinks that “the actual practice of democratic capitalism is more consistent with the high aims of Judaism and Christianity than the practice of any other system.”(p242)\n\nObviously church criticism, particularly Catholic, of capitalism has been distinctly biased against it, at least until Pope John Paul II. This is probably due to a misunderstanding of Anglo-Saxon “individualism” by the continental Catholic hierarchy and that “the discoveries of modern economics seem to have affected it hardly at all.”(p241)\n\nMany Christian thinkers have sought an accommodation with socialism and its program to end poverty and oppression. For those espousing a Christian Marxism this means a Marxism emptied of everything: atheism, materialism, collectivization or one-party rule. In the US John A. Ryan proposed a Catholic alternative to state socialism that inspired a Bishops’ “Program for Social Reconstruction” in 1919 that came close to FDR’s New Deal. More recently, Catholic bishops have moved decisively against capitalism, helping the poor with statist programs, rather like secular socialists. These thinkers seem to give socialist plans the benefit of every doubt, while according none to democratic capitalism in its actual character. Meanwhile, socialism “has been dying the death of a thousand qualifications.”(p254)\n\nJuergen Moltmann has developed a theology of Christian socialism. It owes more to Hegel than to Aquinas. This “theology of hope” turns to the future and Christian hope. It breaks away from “the struggle of the individual soul” and emphasizes the social (i.e. political) nature of the Christian vocation. Moltmann is critical of both Stalinism and capitalism. He endorses democracy and socialism. “The oppressed hold in their hand the key for the liberation of mankind from oppression.”(p258) Thus the poor are “objects, victims, and finally a messianic class sent to save the rich.”(p258)\n\nMoltmann wants to subordinate economics to theology. Capitalism is “outside the law, destructive of true community... monetary... inspiring wolflike animosity between man and man”(p262) and madly pursuing growth for growth’s sake and work for work’s sake.\n\nMolmann defines his “socialism” as responding to five vicious circles in the world today: poverty, force, racial and cultural alienation, industrial pollution of nature, senselessness and godforsakenness. Thus socialism no longer rests on a concrete program but becomes a “symbol for large and grand ideals.”(p270) He “exhibits high confidence in governmental control over life... commends the distribution of wealth and a no-growth economy... respects political and moral-cultural liberties, but not economic liberties... a return to premodern conceptions.”(p270)\n\nIn Latin America the socialist myth “unites the political system, the economic system, and the moral-cultural system under one set of authorities.”(p272) It inspires the most heavily armed states. And it provides an excuse. Catholic bishops ignore Catholic economic teachings of four hundred years to blame the United States for Latin American poverty. It’s the Marxist stencil: “If I am poor, my poverty is due to malevolent and powerful others.”(p273)\n\nAdam Smith drew attention to the two American experiments in 1776, one “based on the political economy of southern Europe” and the other “launching a new idea.”(p274) So why is Latin America behind? Hugh Trevor-Roper unearthed one reason. Entrepreneurial businessmen, Christian and Jewish, were driven from Spain by an “alliance of church and state” that “banned or restricted enterprise in the private sector.”(p277) Yet in 1969 the Catholic bishops of Peru said “we are the victims” and in 1974 the Catholic bishops in the US wrote that the “unchecked liberalism” of profit, competition, and private ownership led to “dictatorship” in Latin America.(p280) This embarrassing economic ignorance demonstrates a failure to grasp “relevant economic reality.”\n\nSocialism is as centralizing as it can get, and the Soviet Empire an extreme example of centralization. Yet Marxist thought “today uses the theory of center and periphery as an accusation against democratic capitalism. But every energetic pulse of economic activity become a “center.” The theory is just another way of explaining the poverty of the poor by the wealth of the wealthy.\n\nBeginning in 1968 Roman Catholic bishops in Latin America began to develop a “liberation theology” based upon reading the Scriptures as a story of liberation. They applied Scripture not to individuals but to “social structures and economic systems.”(p288) The Anglo-Saxon Whig tradition of liberty is little known, but the “widespread Latin American antipathy towards commerce... is married... to a widespread desire for an integral, holistic, unitary system.”(p289) There is a vacuum “into which liberation theology rushes.”(p289) Religious liberation becomes a this-worldly “struggle for revolution against tyranny and poverty.”(p290) As well as local oppressors, “unfair terms of trade” enrolls international capitalism as the global oppressor. Of course, liberation theology, while specific in its critique of capitalism, is “vague and dreamy” about its program and about the institutions that will replace the old after the revolution. It is enough to know that capitalism “fosters individualism, competition, materialism, and greed. Socialism offers an alternative set of values, which stress the virtues of participation, community, equality, and sacrifice.”(p295) Liberation theologians defend the stagnation of socialist economies such as Cuba; at least the Cubans “claim to supply basic necessaries to all the poor.”(p295) Liberation theologians choose help for the poor now over a better future in a growing economy.\n\nLatin Catholic culture is different from northern European culture. Cultural choices in economic affairs make a difference. Archbishop Helder Camara of Brazil says that is sad that 80 percent of the world’s resources are at the disposal of 20 percent of its inhabitants. But these resources were discovered within the last 200 years; the combustion engine, oil wells were discovered under Northern European Protestant culture. So we could say that it is marvelous that 80 percent of the world’s resources have been discovered by one of the smaller cultures, and made available for use in every continent. But more needs to be done. “Nothing prevented Brazilians from inventing the combustion engine, the radio, the airplane, penicillin”.(p300) But they didn’t. Writes Gustavo Gutierrez in \"A Theology of Liberation\": “The underdevelopment of poor nations... is... the sub-product of the development of other countries... [T]he capitalist system... [creates] a center and a periphery... progress and riches for the few, and... poverty for the majority.” Joseph Ramos prepared an economic critique of Gutierrez for the Catholic bishops in 1970. Center and periphery is a truism. Of course any economically active locale is a center. Nor is wealth created in one place subtracted from another. There is far more wealth today than 200 years ago. All peoples have benefited. Nor is the US to blame for Latin American dependency. Only 5 percent of US investment is made abroad. Seventy percent of US exports go to developed countries. Return on US investments in Latin America is not particularly high, relative to other countries. Gutierrez’s notion of class conflict applies to static economies. Where there is growth there can be “relations of mutual advantage and cooperation.”(p306) Nor will class struggle disappear with the abolition of private property. “Struggle over the political allocation of power and goods is historically one of the most bitter forms for struggle.”(p307)\n\nDespite all this, Latin America has done well economically. Since World War II, growth has averaged 5.2 percent per year, and real wages and salaries have increased by 2 percent per year, better than the US in 1865-1914. Latin Americans are closing the “technological, organizational and management gaps”(p309) to produce a revolution in “human capital.”\n\nBut this revolution has not yet reached the bottom. In 1970 about 40 percent lived below the poverty line and 20 percent in destitution. To raise the destitute and poor to the poverty line would cost about 5 percent of GNP. So the “economic capacity is present.”(p311) But the political will may be lacking.\n\nWriting about institutions, liberation theologians favor socialism. Writing about individuals they favor “economic independence, self-reliance, personal creativity”.(p312) “Their rage against the existing order... prevents them from thinking \"institutionally\" about how to devise checks and balances against corporate power, while using it creatively to check clerical and military power. They have not thought \"theologically\" about the vocation of laymen and laywomen in the world, particularly in commerce and industry.”(p313) They do not think about using the commercial class to limit the power of traditional elites. There is no vision of the liberation available from democratic capitalism. “[T]heir path to liberation is ill-defended against state tyranny.”(p314) They need to avoid the temptation that socialism is a more “noble way” than the “lowly” path of realistic democratic capitalism.\n\nReinhold Niebuhr was a Christian from the German Reformed tradition. He started as a Christian Marxist and ended up more or less accepting the culture of democratic capitalism. He began by recommending in 1931 the abridgment and destruction of “absolute property rights” and its replacement with tax-financed social insurance. He saw an identity between the ideal of Christianity and socialism. But by mid-1933 he saw the property rights of the “small trader and farmer” as a “chance to perform a social function”.(p318) Niebuhr grew up in close-knit German-American communities and thus understood socialism “as a protest against radical individualism”.(p318) In 1935 Niebuhr wrote that capitalism was doomed, that “social ownership” was the only basis of “health and justice”, and that “social struggle” was necessary. But by 1938 he recognized that the problem of power always remained. “A Christian can give only ‘qualified loyalty’ to any political program.”(p321) In 1940 he was impressed that the people elected Roosevelt over Wendell Willkie. Democracy had worked in the US. By 1948 he criticized the World Council of Churches for condemning equally capitalism and communism. By 1952: “[Marxist] theory is incompatible with democratic responsibility; its theory of class conflict does not fit the multiple-class structure of modern industrial societies and is incompatible with the principle of ‘class collaboration’ upon which democratic politics depends”,(p323) and its utopian vision interferes with the practical interests of a “sane political movement.” Marxism’s sweeping generalizations are refuted by daily experience.”(p324) By 1961, society needs a trinity of goods: freedom, community, and justice.\n\nNiebuhr came to believe in a “balance between political powers, economic powers, and moral-cultural powers.”(p325) He recognized that politics is not just a conflict of interests “but a rational engagement and enlargement of a native sympathy”.(p325) He came to accept a harmony between Jefferson’s “government of reason”, Hamilton’s realism about “interests” and Madison’s “pre-Marxist analysis of the basis of collective and class interests in the varying ‘talents’ and consequent economic interests of the various classes.”(p326) He understood that, checked by the political and moral-cultural systems the economic system “possessed its own integrity”.(p328) “[W]e must be careful to preserve whatever self-regulating forces exist in the economic process.” Otherwise the task of economic control endangers liberty.\n\nNiebuhr always believed that capitalism tended to dangerous concentrations of power; he criticized individualism in light of man’s social nature. Still he recognized that capitalism had “more moral and political resources to avoid catastrophe” than its critics realized; Christians like him also misunderstood the nature of the Marxian program. It was utopian, not practical. In supporting nationalization, leftists did not count its costs in bureaucracy and centralization of power. Failing to understand modern complexities they gave the “abolition of property a false halo it did not deserve.”(p331) A “religious passion for justice must be balanced by pragmatic considerations”.(p331) Still, the enormous wealth of the US (2-3 times Europe in the mid-1950s, ten times Asia) tempts people to envy and assume exploitation. In the wake of the radicalizing of US elites in the Vietnam War and uncritical assumptions of Third World oppression by developed countries a new Niebuhr is needed to connect moralistic passions with reality.\n\nBuilding a humane social order is a long journey. “To know its ideals is to be restless... and to wish to do better”.(p333) The ideals of socialism are well known. It is a unitary system dominated by the state and tending to tyrannical unity. Even though many democratic socialists have abandoned Marxism, they still wish “to strengthen the political system at the expense of the economic system and the moral-cultural system.(p334) Thinkers like Michael Harrington and Irving Howe see themselves as the conscience of the Democratic Party. But they are not the conscience of democratic capitalism. They are the conscience “of the socialist system they wish America yet to become.”(p334) To create a conscience of democratic capitalism requires a reformulation of Christian theology in the light of knowledge about practical life under democratic capitalism, its “economics, industry, manufacturing, trade, and finance.”(p336)\n\n\"The Trinity\". Whatever the Trinity means, it seems that “God is to be conceived as a kind of community rather than solitary individual... What is most valued among humans is that community within which individuality is not lost.”(p338) Socialism aims at community, but does not protect the individual. Novak finds “dark illumination” in a political economy “differentiated and yet one... [where] each tames and corrects and enhances the others.”(p339) All sorts of communities flourish, less rooted in kin, more voluntary and fluid, but communities for all that. It is mediating communities that make the life of individuals and states possible. When these are broken, the state is broken.\n\n\"The Incarnation\". “The point of Incarnation is to respect the world as it is... to disbelieve any promises that the world is now or ever will be transformed into the City of God”,(p341) but still to hope. That is what the Founding Fathers did when they “chose as their model citizen.. the free man of property and commerce.”(p343) Heroism and virtue were permitted, but “the system as a system was cut to common cloth.” “They did not promise paradise, or peace and justice. “The task of political economy is not to guide the ship but to make a voyage possible.(p343)\n\n\"Competition\". People called to the religious life tend to be non-competitive. There is a temptation to impose this culture upon others. But a “political economy needs bold political leaders who thrive in contests of power and willful dreamers and builders who delight in overcoming economic difficulties in order to produce. The will-to-power must be made creative, not destroyed.”(p344) The Bible certainly understands life as a struggle. “Many are called, few are chosen,” “last shall be first,” etc. Yet “Christian grace is never measured either by virtue or by worldly success.”(p346) Is competition foreign to a religion of “love, meekness, and peace”? Not while it is so hard to “be meeker than one’s neighbor.”(p347) The rich may find it hard to get into Heaven, but this is because they have more to answer for. “It does not seem to be inconsistent with the gospels for each human to struggle, under the spur of competition with his fellows, to become all he can become.”(p348)\n\n\"Original sin\". The doctrine of original sin steels the mind against the utopian illusion, that “the evils and inconstancies of the human heart are superable” or caused by “evil structures.”(p349) Every political economy has a theory of sin, something it is against. Democratic capitalism is “designed against tyranny.” As such, it does not repress human vice, to the shock of outsiders like Alexander Solzhenitsyn. “Socialist societies repress sin much more effectively. They begin by repressing economic activities. A free society can tolerate vice because it believes in “the basic decency of human beings... Under an appropriate set of checks and balances, the vast majority of human beings will respond to daily challenges with decency, generosity, common sense, and even, on occasion, moral heroism.”(p351)\n\n\"The separation of realms\". Democratic capitalist society cannot impose Christianity on its people. Christians may try to “shape the will of the majority”(p351) but “must respect the consciences of others even more than law alone may demand.”(p351) Anyway, Christian values make demands that are “not of this world.” No practical human order can be run on purely Christian principles. Christians should follow their conscience “and cooperate in coalitions where consensus may be reached.”(p352) At “the heart of democratic capitalism is a differentiation of system designed to squeeze some good from sinful tendencies.”(p353)\n\n\"Caritas\". This is the ideal of love “willing the good of the other as other”.(p353) “To look upon history as love-infused by a Creator who values others as others... is to glimpse a world in which the political economy of democratic capitalism makes sense.”(p355) “in this scheme the individual is not atomic... [for] the fulfillment of the individual lies in a beloved community. Yet any community worthy of such love values the singularity and inviolability of each person. Without true individualism there is not true community.”(p356) “The vision is that of a republic of independent, self-reliant, fraternal, cooperative citizens, each of whose interests includes the interests of all in brotherhood ‘from sea to shining sea’... guided by the motto ‘In God we trust”.(p357-8)\n\nThis book has not been about the practice of capitalism; it has been about grasping the ideals implied in its practice. It now becomes possible to compare it with socialism, ideal against ideal, practice against practice. If the real world of democratic capitalism is worse than its ideal, then how should it be judged? By what standard? It does not meet the ideals of democratic socialism because it has its own ideals. It does not meet the highest ideals of Judaism and Christianity, for no political economy can do that. But democratic capitalism stands ready for criticism and change. It is designed for that, the only known system designed for “transformation by peaceful means.”(p359) God designed creation as an arena of free will, and democratic capitalism honors that with a “non-coercive society... within which individuals and peoples are called to realize, through democratic methods, the vocations to which they believe they are called.”(p360) “Under God, they may expect to meet exact and just judgment.”\n\nOn behalf of the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, Margaret Thatcher presented a Sir Antony Fisher International Memorial Award to Michael Novak.\n\n"}
{"id": "544296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544296", "title": "Trinity Church Cemetery", "text": "Trinity Church Cemetery\n\nTrinity Church Cemetery consists of three separate burial grounds associated with Trinity Church in New York City. The first was established in the Churchyard located at 74 Trinity Place at Wall Street and Broadway. In 1842, the church, running out of space in its churchyard, established Trinity Church Cemetery and Mausoleum in Upper Manhattan between Broadway and Riverside Drive, at the Chapel of the Intercession (now The Church of the Intercession, New York), formerly the location of John James Audubon's estate. A third burial place is the Churchyard of St. Paul's Chapel.\n\nA no longer extant Trinity Church Cemetery was the Old Saint John's Burying Ground for St. John's Chapel. This location is bounded by Hudson, Leroy and Clarkson Streets near Hudson Square. It was in use from 1806–52 with over 10,000 burials, mostly poor and young. In 1897, it was turned into St. John's Park, with most of the burials left in place. The park was later renamed Hudson Park, and is now James J. Walker Park. (This park is different from a separate St. John's Park, a former private park and residential block approximately one mile to the south that now serves as part of the Holland Tunnel access.)\n\nThe burial grounds have been the final resting place for many historic figures since the Churchyard cemetery opened in 1697. A non-denominational cemetery, it is listed in the United States National Register of Historic Places and is the only remaining active cemetery in Manhattan. There are two bronze plaques at the Church of the Intercession cemetery commemorating the Battle of Fort Washington, which included some of the fiercest fighting of the Revolutionary War.\n\nTrinity Church Cemetery, along with Broadway, marks the center of the Heritage Rose District of NYC.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1026901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1026901", "title": "University of Virginia Darden School of Business", "text": "University of Virginia Darden School of Business\n\nThe Darden School of Business is the graduate business school associated with the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia. The Darden School offers MBA, Ph.D. and Executive Education programs. The School was founded in 1955 and is named after Colgate Whitehead Darden, Jr., a former Democratic congressman, governor of Virginia, and former president of the University of Virginia. Darden is on the grounds of the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. The School is famous for being one of the most prominent business schools to use the case method as its primary method of teaching . The Dean of the school is former McKinsey & Company executive, Scott C. Beardsley.\n\nDesigned for students who seek to strengthen their leadership, business and communication skills, Darden’s two-year MBA program — ranked #1 in educational experience by \"Economist\" — combines core and elective courses in Charlottesville, Virginia with opportunities to study abroad.\n\nThe required curriculum in the First Year is designed to provide students with an integrated perspective on general management. Beginning in the final term of the First Year, the curriculum is made up entirely of electives to allow students to develop more depth in chosen areas of interest. Students may choose two from among the following optional concentrations:\nThe inaugural Executive Education program was offered in 1955. Darden Executive Education offers both short courses and custom solutions, as well as consortia, corporate university design and development, and industry specific partnerships. Short course focus areas include leadership, general management, strategy and decision-making, negotiation, growth and innovation, project management, sales and marketing, financial management and corporate aviation. Year-after-year these programs are ranked in the top five of the \"Financial Times\" annual survey.\n\nDarden’s doctoral program allows students to obtain a Ph.D. degree in management, specializing in either ethics, entrepreneurship, or leadership and organizational behavior. The program prepares individuals for careers in research and teaching at major universities and corporations.\n\nDarden is regularly ranked as being among the Top 15 business schools in the U.S. and Top 30 in the world. Its current rankings are as follows:\n\n\n\n\nDarden's list of alumni includes:\n\n\n"}
