{"id": "6751751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6751751", "title": "Aileen Fox", "text": "Aileen Fox\n\nAileen Mary Fox, Lady Fox, FSA (née Henderson, 29 July 1907 – 21 November 2005), was an English archaeologist. She specialised in the archaeology of South West England, notably excavating the Roman legionary fortress in Exeter in Devon after World War II.\n\nThe daughter of a solicitor, she was educated at Chinthurst School in Surrey and later at Downe House School in Kent. She remained at the school after it moved to Berkshire, under the headship of Olive Willis, and then went on to read English at Newnham College, Cambridge. After her graduation in 1929, she worked as a volunteer on the excavation of Richborough, Kent, under J. P. Bushe-Fox. She spent the following winter at the British School at Rome, before returning to Richborough. In 1932 she excavated at Hembury hillfort, Devon and Meon Hill, Hampshire.\n\nIn 1933 she married Cyril Fox, the director of the National Museum of Wales, with whom she had three sons. The Foxes excavated prehistoric and Roman sites throughout the UK, although Fox continued to lead her own excavations, such as at the Roman legionary fortress at Isca Augusta (Caerleon, Wales) in 1939. Fox lectured at the University College, Cardiff, from 1940 to 1945. Her most notable achievement was her three seasons of excavation at Roman Exeter, following damage from World War II. Following these excavations, she took up a lectureship at the University College of the South West of England at Exeter in 1947, and stayed until her retirement in 1971. From the late 1940s onwards, she undertook key excavations in south-west England, shedding new light on prehistoric occupation of Dartmoor, Iron Age hillforts in the region and the Roman military presence in Cornwall.\n\nIn 1965, she was a founding member of the Hillforts Study Group, alongside Christopher Hawkes and others. In the late 1960s, Fox played a key role in establishing the Exeter Archaeological Field Unit. She served as the president of the Devon Archaeological Society (1963-64) and as a vice-president of the Council for British Archaeology. She believed in the nurturing of archaeological interest in the young, and produced her book \"Roman Britain\" in collaboration with the artist Alan Sorrell, whom she had met many years earlier at the British School at Rome. Following her husband's knighthood in 1935, she became known as Lady Fox.\n\nIn 1944, Fox was elected to a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London. In 1985 she was awarded an honorary doctorate of letters from the University of Exeter and in 1998 honorary membership of the Prehistoric Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43092900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43092900", "title": "Alexandru Philippide", "text": "Alexandru Philippide\n\nAlexandru I. Philippide (; May 1, 1859 – August 12, 1933) was a Romanian linguist and philologist. Educated in Iași and Halle, he taught high school for several years until 1893, when he secured a professorship at the University of Iași that he would hold until his death forty years later. He began publishing books on the Romanian language around the time he graduated university, but it was not until he became a professor that he drew wider attention, thanks to a study of the language's history. Although not particularly ideological, he penned sharp, witty polemics directed at various intellectual figures, both at home and, in one noted case, in Germany.\n\nIn 1898, Philippide began work on a Romanian dictionary; by 1906, he and his team had completed the first four letters of the alphabet before others took over the task. His major work, which appeared in two hefty volumes in 1925 and 1928, brings together a wide range of ancient sources and linguistic evidence to analyze the ethnogenesis of the Romanians and the development of their language. Although attacked for parochialism by one set of academics, the students he trained carried forth his ideas by forming the core of an Iași-based linguistic school.\n\nBorn in Bârlad in the Tutova County of Western Moldavia region, his father Iancu was deputy prefect of a \"plasă\" during the reign of Alexandru Ion Cuza, and owned land at Cerțești, a village to the south. Philippide was of Greek origin on his father's side, the family originating in Milies, a village at the foot of Mount Pelion in Thessaly. His great-grandfather's brother Daniel Philippidis, a historian and geographer, settled in Iași at the turn of the 19th century. His family origins were a source of pride, even in old age: asked by Nicolae Bănescu if he was of Aromanian background, the linguist replied, \"no, no, we're entirely Greek!\"\n\nAlexandru attended primary school (1866–1870) and Gheorghe Roșca Codreanu High School (1870–1877), both in his native city. Subsequently, he enrolled in the University of Iași, earning his degree in 1881. Pursuing specialized study at the University of Halle-Wittenberg from 1888 to 1890, he took courses in classical and modern philology, archaeology and the history of Greek philosophy. While there, he met Eduard Sievers, Heinrich Keil and Hermann Suchier, becoming close friends with the latter. A librarian at the Central University Library of Iași from 1881 to 1884, he subsequently taught at the city's National College. He was hired there to fill a vacancy caused by the death of an admired teacher, Alexandru Lambrior.\n\nReturning to teach high school after his German stint, he became a professor at the literature faculty in Iași in 1893, retaining the post until his death. He was initially a substitute professor in the newly created department, rising to full professor in 1896. A Neogrammarian, he taught courses on the history of the Romanian language, general linguistics, Vulgar Latin, the physiology of the human voice and the origin of the Romanians. The initiator of an original theory of linguistics, this was developed and augmented by his student Gheorghe Ivănescu. His books, studies and articles total some 4000 pages, while his course materials number another 1500. The latter, in which he traced the history of the Romanian language, complemented his published work. It was where he tested new ideas and drafted outlines for the full-length \"Originea românilor\".\n\nAn early work was the 1881 \"Încercare asupra stării sociale a poporului românesc în trecut\" (\"Investigation into the Social Status of the Romanian People in the Past\"), which attempted to trace the origins of Romanian culture. In 1892, he undertook a thorough linguistic analysis to demonstrate that the \"Chronicle of Huru\", a purported 13th-century document, was in fact a modern forgery. He published \"Introducere în istoria limbei şi literaturei române\" (\"Introduction to the History of Romanian Language and Literature\") in 1888 and \"Gramatică elementară a limbii române\" (\"Elementary Grammar of the Romanian Language\") in 1897; this was at a time when domestic scientifically composed textbooks were in scarce supply. The first work, after presenting the author's ideas on literary history, goes on to provide biographical sketches of Romanian literary figures from the 16th-century Coresi through 1821. Philippide believed that a satisfactory history of Romanian literature did not exist, and set out to correct this deficiency. Beginning here, he grappled with the issue of the literary language, which he termed the \"common language\". Observing that Romanian had not yet developed a firm standard, he both suggested a theory of language evolution and steps to be taken toward standardization. However, he rejected wholesale attempts to create a new variant, which he accused Heimann Hariton Tiktin of doing prematurely. He ascribed overarching importance in the creation and evolution of literary languages to popular writers.\n\nThe second work, targeted at a specialist audience, was not intended as a textbook but as a means to show Romanian grammar as it existed in reality; this was in contrast with Tiktin's 1891 teaching manual. Philippide discussed words selected from the dictionary by Alexandru Cihac, the only one he found respectable; and from writers, Moldavians especially: Ion Creangă foremost, but also Mihai Eminescu, Alexandru Odobescu, Costache Negruzzi, Petre Ispirescu, Costache Conachi and Vasile Alecsandri; and from the Moldavian chronicles, as well as a bit of Anton Pann. The book features many examples of the spoken language, some of them in the Moldavian subdialect. He believed the examples would help illustrate the development of the language's inflection and syntax; this methodology is unique in the annals of Romanian grammar works. Here, he introduced the (debated) notion that the Romanian literary language was not based on a particular subdialect, but resulted from each one's contributions. While the Wallachian form was previously dominant, the increasing output of Moldavian writers meant that, by the end of the 19th century, the written language had become a compromise between the two.\n\nIt was an 1894 history of the language that put him on the academic map. Although modeled on Hermann Paul's \"Principles of the History of Language\", it was original in scope, discussing the distinction between literary and spoken language, the causes of linguistic change, the processes that lead to literary language formation and the relation between language and orthography. In his writing, he insisted on phonetic spelling, a principle that arose not only out of his linguistic theory, but also from his study of anthropology, which led him to believe that \"naturalness\" should lie at the heart of language, as well as morality, society and art. However, he made one significant exception to the phonetic rule: his own surname. When asked on this point, he joked that he wished to show he had the same name as Alexander the Great, \"who was himself Alexandru Philippide, that is, Alexander, son of Philip.\"\n\nPhilippide married twice. As a bachelor, he sought a German bride, having become convinced during his Halle days that a German woman would be ideal for him. His first wife, Johanna Minckwitz, had a doctorate in Romance philology and was the daughter of a Zürich professor. The marriage took place in a civil ceremony at Saint Helier on Jersey in early October 1895. Although initially delighted with his new wife, the relationship soured due to the presence of Philippide's mother-in-law in his house. During one heated argument, he handled an axe and Johanna took her mother's side. Eventually, the two women returned to Switzerland and the marriage ended in divorce. Johanna continued to be interested in Romanian literature, and put out her own study of Eminescu's poetry. She and Philippide reportedly had a child, although details have not survived.\n\nIn 1897, Philippide married a Romanian woman. This was Lucreția Nemțeanu, a young novice at Agapia Monastery, where her sister was a nun. Her father, the former mayor of Vânători-Neamț, was the administrator of the mental hospital in Târgu Neamț. He first learned of Lucreția when he saw her photograph in the hands of her brother, a student of his, and asked to meet her; a month and a half later, the two were married. This time, both a civil and a religious (Romanian Orthodox) service were held, probably at the insistence of his new in-laws. Although remarking on her \"rotten poverty\", he admired Lucreția's youth, beauty and kindness, considering her the opposite of Johanna. Their son, born in 1900, was the future poet Alexandru A. Philippide. The latter would recall the Spartan education received from his father, involving a strict program of Homeric verse in the original Greek. The elder Philippide drew a sharp distinction between science, which he regarded as the province of manly, knowledge-seeking personalities; and literature, particularly poetry, which for him was an unserious activity for sensitive small minds. Although he had flirted with poetry as a young man, he was saddened to see his son adopt it as a profession.\n\nPhilippide entered \"Junimea\" society in the early 1890s, during its gradual relocation to Bucharest, the national capital. He then remained in contact with the young intellectuals who still met in Iași, where \"Junimea\" maintained a nominal presence—with N. Volenti and Teohari Antonescu as mainstays. Philippide was disgusted by the provincial airs of Iași \"Junimism\". In December 1898, he wrote a letter to \"Junimea\" founder Titu Maiorescu, telling him that his creation had \"degenerated\" beyond recognition: \"joke has turned to buffoonery, sally to insanity, liberty to anarchy.\" His time at \"Junimea\" did not leave a significant impact on his thinking: it was for him primarily a means of access to high society and developing useful connections with prominent figures capable of helping him advance. Later, once he was secure in his professorship, he distanced himself from \"Junimism\", particularly its political manifestation.\n\nPhilippide did retain something of the conservative aesthetics promoted by Maiorescu, with which his tastes and sensibilities naturally fit in. Like Maiorescu himself, he derided didacticism, \"social ideals\" in art, and the Marxist school of Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea. He detailed this hostility in his essay \"Idealuri\" (\"Ideals\"), serialized by the \"Junimea\" magazine, \"Convorbiri Literare\", in 1892 and 1893: Philippide thought it absurd that Dobrogeanu-Gherea equated cultural heritage with socialist culture, and was infuriated by the Marxist claim that \"Junimea\" would not survive at all in cultural memory. Writing from a \"Junimist\" standpoint, he opined that a writer must take literary tradition into account, and that his writing should be devoid of moralizing. According to literary historian Z. Ornea, \"Idealuri\" is \"dense, confused, and rather outside the scope of the polemic\", as well as \"passionately violent\" in tone.\n\nFrom 1900, Philippide joined the 26-man team of editors at \"Convorbiri Literare\" (a step in its ongoing transition from literary polemics to scientific publishing). In 1902, at Constantin Stere's urging, Philippide joined the anti-\"Junimist\" National Liberal Party, but retained amiable or even friendly ties to \"Junimea\" figures, particularly Maiorescu. In line with the latter's pronouncements, he was a critic of modern, bourgeois-created Romanian society. Although nearly as vehement in this regard as Eminescu, he approached the matter not from a political angle but based on the classical morality espoused in the \"Nicomachean Ethics\".\n\nAn independent thinker and committed individualist, characterized by moral intransigence, a lucid critic of his era and of his country's negative aspects, Philippide refused to be pigeonholed into a single ideological current, thus occupying a rare position for the time. His original thought combined tendencies normally thought of as contradictory: to his \"Junimist\" foundations were added small portions of socialist-tinted humanitarianism and Sămănătorist-Poporanist nationalism, as well as a hefty dose of German notions. Nevertheless, in the view of literary critic Antonio Patraș, they managed to form a coherent and compelling whole, lending scientific but also moral authority to his writings.\n\nElected a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy in 1898 and upgraded to titular member in 1900, he took part in its sessions twice, in 1910 and 1918. Philippide pursued two major tasks: the composition of a Romanian dictionary and the writing of the language's history from its origins to his day. Between 1898 and 1906, under the Academy's aegis, he worked on \"Dicționarul limbii române\" (\"Dictionary of the Romanian Language\"), together with several students. The project was sponsored by Maiorescu, who, like Philippide, deplored the excessive tendency to ascribe Latin etymologies. He managed to write definitions for letters A through D before having to interrupt his work; the manuscript covers 11,744 folio pages. He put together a bibliography and plan for the whole dictionary and collected over 600,000 files.\n\nInherited from Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu, who offered to pass him notes, the project subsequently passed into the hands of Sextil Pușcariu. The proximate cause for the end of Philippide's involvement was that the contract had expired; however, disagreements had arisen over the years as well. The Academy and King Carol wanted a normal, functional, barebones dictionary, while Philippide preferred an exhaustive compilation of the lexis, \"a Littré for the Romanians\" (although he eventually dropped entries on proper nouns). One of his collaborators on the project was Garabet Ibrăileanu, whom he had helped set up \"Viața Românească\". The two shared a conservative temperament but not a similar political outlook, and Philippide took aim at the other's purported deficiencies as a philologist, seeing him as primarily a philosopher.\n\nAlongside Stere, Philippide was a founding member and mentor of \"Viața Românească\" magazine, which, according to his own linguistic norms, was written in conscious contrast to the official spelling directives from the Academy. In his essays, which appeared in \"Viața Românească\" and in \"Convorbiri Literare\", Philippide tried to create a model portrait of the Romanian intellectual. His writings were polemical, sharply attacking the leading figures of his time. He derided a certain type of \"specialist\", and insisted that intellectuals needed to focus above all on enrichment through learning. His intellectual models had both made their mark prior to Alexandru Ioan Cuza's being deposed in 1866: Timotei Cipariu and Mihail Kogălniceanu. Considering he lived in a darker age, the only later scholar he admired was Lambrior, while the quintessential \"specialist\" for him was Hasdeu.\n\nUninterested in adopting others' opinions, with a penchant for discipline and thoroughness acquired in Germany, he became an adept of Stoicism, which accounts for his emphasis on ethical values, above all honesty. His devotion to honesty sometimes caused problems in social settings. Analyzing his style, particularly as found in his correspondence, philologist Cristina Florescu categorizes Philippide as a late Romantic, displaying \"impetuosity, idealism, a longing for a vanished time, imprudent and abrupt gestures\", his flourishes meshing with his \"elevated consciousness of Romanian realities\". She suggests that his spirit, in order to face a society he often shunned, took refuge in humor. His primary weapon was irony: \"whether acidic or gently sentimental, frequently hilarious but even more often stinging\". His blend of satire, humor and irony made for a highly specific writing style. However, as argued by his friend Gheorghe T. Kirileanu, his speeches were uplifting, \"stirring up inside you, in the deepest parts of your soul, the pleasure to work and live.\" According to Kirileanu, Philippide was cheereful only \"because he wants to make others happy\"; his scatological jokes, however, were perfectly suited to annoy \"the delicate aristocrats\", Simion Mehedinți and Matei B. Cantacuzino.\n\nCollections of his essays appeared as \"Specialistul român. Contribuție la istoria culturii românești din secolul XIX\" (\"The Romanian Specialist. Contribution to the History of Romanian Culture in the 20th Century\", 1906–1907), and as \"Cum se apără specialistul român\" (\"How the Romanian Specialist Defends Himself\", 1908). However, he also attacked German linguist Gustav Weigand in a series of articles that appeared in 1909–1910 in \"Viața Românească\", published in 1910 in a single volume as \"Un specialist român la Lipsca\" (\"A Romanian Specialist at Leipzig\"). He began by defending his student Giorge Pascu, the target of a number of attacks by Weigand. Broadening the scope of his polemic, he questioned Weigand's competence as a scholar of Romanian, as well as that of other contemporary linguists. He passionately underscored what he considered Weigand's shortcomings as a person, accusing him of lacking objectivity and even of intrigue, claiming he sent letters to magazines in order to stop publication of articles by professional rivals.\n\nPhilippide made a trip to Western Europe in 1914, after which he remained in Iași for the rest of his days. Like many educated Moldavians, he expressed distaste for Bucharest, considering it the root of all evil. He derided the Romanian Parliament as a gathering of \"wretched undertakers\", and railed against the Romanian Academy, which he saw as a hastily improvised imitation of prestigious Western academies, rife with imposture and improvisation, its members concerned with getting rich quickly rather than finding comfort in the rewards of philosophy. Philippide, in common with other \"Junimists\", deplored the French influence on Romania, believing the country needed a Germanic touch for its betterment. He was proud to live far from the hustle and bustle of Bucharest, hoping to revive the \"Junimea\"-era glories of the country's former cultural capital that he inhabited. To this end, he helped bring a superior class of students, professors, writers and artists to Iași.\n\nPhilippide, together with many other \"Junimists\" and Iași academics such as Stere, favored the Central Powers for the first two years of World War I, during which interval Romania remained neutral. His cooperation with Stere deepened: in early 1916, he supported Stere's bid to return as Rector of Iași University, and ran on the same list as him. Although Philippide gathered most votes, the list overall lost as a result of government opposition and intrigue. The \"Germanophile\" party lost, as, in 1916, Romania joined the Entente; after the German counteroffensive, Bucharest was occupied and Iași became the provisional capital of a rump Romanian state. Between October 1916 and spring 1919, Iași University virtually ceased functioning due to the hardships of war. Its buildings were requisitioned by the War Ministry and most of the faculty were not in town. However, a few professors, including Philippide as well as Ibrăileanu and Dimitrie Gusti, were able to teach part of their course schedule inside their private homes, which were not entirely taken over by the army. In October 1918, after Romania made peace with Germany, Philippide proposed Stere, Ibrăileanu, and Ilie Bărbulescu for membership of the Academy—they lost, owing to Stere's uncompromising Germanophilia.\n\nHe spent the better part of his career on his second principal endeavor, a history of the language and an exploration of how it arose. Called \"Originea românilor\" (\"The Origin of the Romanians\"), its first, 889-page volume appeared in 1925, with the second 829-page one being published in 1928. Volume I, \"Ce spun izvoarele istorice\" (\"What Historical Sources Say\"), deals with the Romanians' ethnogenesis (\"see origin of the Romanians\") and displays Philippide's abilities as an historian. He brings critical analysis to the works of Herodotus, Polybius, Appian, Strabo, Ptolemy and Cassius Dio, focusing on their writings about Dacia and the northern Balkans. The work includes long passages that had never previously appeared in Romanian. At the same time, he details the Latin inscriptions found in the Balkans, paying close attention to Procopius' \"De aedificiis\" but also to other material in the \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum\".\n\nHe calculates the length and intensity of Romanization in various parts of the Balkans and documents the ethnic migrations that took place throughout the Middle Ages between the north and south banks of the Danube. Additionally, he summarizes and critiques the main theories of ethnogenesis that appeared between the Middle Ages and the beginning of the 20th century. He completely rejects the notion put forth by Austrian historian Robert Roesler that Romance-speaking people migrated into Transylvania in the 12th–13th centuries, after Magyar settlement, instead proposing a migration north of the Danube starting in the 6th century. He made a correction to the Jireček Line that was generally accepted by later linguists.\n\nPart I of volume II is called \"Ce spune limba română\" (\"What the Romanian Language Says\"), and details the history of the language's phonology. Remaining a standard reference text into the 21st century, the book also includes a history of the Aromanian language's grammar. Using the comparative historical method of the Indo-Europeanists, he reconstructs the language at its beginnings, labeling it \"primitive Romanian\" (\"see Proto-Romanian language\"), a dialect of Vulgar Latin. He suggests how the Eastern Romance languages were related at that point and how they broke apart into four distinct entities: Daco-Romanian, Aromanian, Megleno-Romanian and Istro-Romanian. He used Weigand's linguistic atlas of the area, as well as many other sources on the four languages. The evolution of each sound and each grammatical form in the languages is closely documented.\n\nIn the second part of volume II, \"Ce spune limba albaneză\" (\"What the Albanian Language Says\"), he tackles the difficult question of how Romanian is related to Albanian and how this might shed light on Romanians' ethnogenesis. His conclusions retain general acceptance: that commonalities between the two languages are not due to borrowing by the ancestors of the Romanians from early Albanian, or vice versa, but arise from an ancient substrate. For Romanian, this is a pre-Roman, Thracian-Dacian-Moesian one; while for Albanian, the substrate is the Illyrian-Pannonian language.\n\nIn terms of where ethnogenesis took place, Philippide, based on historic and linguistic investigation, proposed that this happened after 268 AD in the Roman provinces south of the Danube: Pannonia Inferior, Moesia (Superior and Inferior) and Dardania, and not in Dacia Traiana. Later research using discoveries in archaeology and numismatics that had not yet been made in Philippide's day cast doubt on his hypothesis that the Roman population of Dacia withdrew south of the Danube during the reign of Emperor Gallienus. The linguistic portion of his hypothesis dealt with affrication, and he based his conclusions on the chronology of this phenomenon that was accepted in his time. Since then, a new timeline has come to be accepted. Nevertheless, Philippide was not strident in his conclusions, suggesting that a Romanized remnant stayed in Dacia even after 268, while in the parts of Romania that were not under Roman rule, there were people \"not Romanized, but only Romanianized, and who live there, where they are now, since time immemorial\".\n\nPhilippide suffered an attack of paralysis in early 1926 and developed atherosclerosis in 1931. This became worse upon his wife's death in March 1933 and led to his own death five months later. Nevertheless, although he reached the mandatory retirement age in 1929, he received three successive exemptions that allowed him to remain on the faculty until his death. In 1927, an Institute of Romanian Philology was set up alongside Iași University upon the initiative of Philippide and Pascu, its first director. In December 1933, four months after his death, it was named in Philippide's honor.\n\nDuring his lifetime, only Pușcariu was an intellectual rival of equal stature. Later, for years, and for mainly ideological reasons although using his work as a pretext, he was ascribed an image of provincialism and extravagance bearing unjustified pretensions. The south-Danubian ethnogenesis hypothesis proposed in \"Originea românilor\" provoked long-term fury among a wide variety of uncultured nationalists, while philologists who had their own ethnic-based prejudices summarily dismissed Philippide's view. Moreover, his personal character did not help matters, with contemporaries recalling him as withdrawn, overly proud, unpredictable, cold when not aggressive during unwanted encounters. It was only in the presence of close associates or before the classroom that he let down his guard. Feared and respected by allies as well as rivals, only a relatively few followers understood and valued him.\n\nNevertheless, these latter scholars did make use of his publications as a basis for their own research, as well as adopting the rigorous intellectual methods and persistent search for knowledge that he displayed. His students include the main representatives of the Iași school of linguistics: Gheorghe Ghibănescu, Vasile Bogrea, Giorge Pascu, Iorgu Iordan, Constantin Gălușcă, Titus Hotnog, I. N. Popovici, Ioan Șiadbei, Dimitrie Găzdaru, Grigore Scorpan, Haralambie Mihăescu and Gheorghe Ivănescu. Pascu, Ibrăileanu and Iordan took up his ideas on literary language, but it was Ivănescu who subjected them to a detailed critical analysis and developed his own theory by synthesizing Philippide's with linguistic idealism.\n\nIon Petrovici's opening speech to the Romanian Academy in 1935 had Philippide as its theme. During the Communist period, Iordan published a biography in 1969. The latter, who retained a strong admiration for his mentor, wrote the book in response to a biography of Hasdeu published the previous year. Next came by a volume of studies that appeared in 1983 on the occasion of the semicentennial of his death, by a volume of his works the following year, and by a 1986 book recording dialogues with his contemporaries. Carmen-Gabriela Pamfil authored a 2008 biography in preparation for the 150th anniversary of Philippide's birth. In 2011, his edited course materials were published as \"Istoria limbii române\" (\"The History of the Romanian Language\"). Two Iași sites associated with Philippide are listed as historic monuments by Romania's Culture Ministry: his house, now a laboratory used by the city's medical university; and his grave in Eternitatea cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16937369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16937369", "title": "Alice Cordelia Morse", "text": "Alice Cordelia Morse\n\nAlice Cordelia Morse (June 1, 1863 – July 15, 1961) was an American designer of book covers in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Her work was inspired by the Arts and Crafts Movement, and she is often placed as one of the top three book designers of her day.\n\nMorse was born in Hammondsville, Ohio to Joseph and Ruth Perkins. She had a brother, Joseph Jr., and a sister, Mary. When she was two, the family moved to Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Her early drawings failed to reveal any special talent. \n\nMorse attended the Woman's School of Art at Cooper Union from 1879 to 1883, graduating with a degree in art and design. Cooper Union was one of the few arts schools open to women in the late 1800s. Although some students paid tuition, Cooper Union would often waive fees for students who were unable to pay; it is likely that Morse was one of these students.\n\nAfter leaving Cooper Union, Morse studied at various art schools, including Alfred State College in New York.\n\nMorse began her career by working with two well-known stained glass artists of the day, first John La Farge and then Louis Comfort Tiffany. A window in Beecher Memorial Church in Brooklyn is her work. Although she learned a great deal from both, she was not terribly interested in stained glass. After she won several book cover design competitions, she decided to pursue book design instead. \n\nIn 1889, Morse left Tiffany's studio to enter a graduate program at Cooper Union directed by Susan N. Carter. During her final year of graduate school in 1892, she won a silver medal for one her life drawings. \n\nFrom 1893 to 1895, Morse was employed as a designer at the New York Society of Decorative Art.\n\nWhile still in graduate school, Morse began designing book covers. \n\nIn the period from 1887 to 1905, Morse designed approximately eighty-one book covers, many of which were for major New York publishers such as Houghton Mifflin, Charles Scribner's Sons, Harper & Brothers, G.P. Putnam's Sons, and Dodd, Mead & Company. She designed covers for various types of books, including novels, plays, poetry, art history, travel literature, children's stories, and domestic handbooks and instructional manuals. Some of these were for famous authors, including Amelia Barr, Lafcadio Hearn, William Dean Howells, Thomas Nelson Page, and Oscar Wilde. She was often asked to design special holiday editions as well as posters. She also received commissions for in-text illustrations and for adding decorative borders, vignettes, and title pages to publications. Along with designing book covers, Morse tried recreating 16th century book bindings. \n\nTrue to the Arts and Crafts aesthetic, Morse's cover designs feature highly stylized patterns of organic forms like leaves and flowers. Her early work was inspired by Roman and Renaissance art, and she later experimented with designs drawn from Celtic, Arabic, Gothic, and Rococo art, and especially Art Nouveau. \n\nMorse held that book designer must be able to take the central idea of the book and depict it creatively on its cover. She also held that women were the best designers because their \"intuitive sense of decoration, their feeling for beauty of line and harmony of color insures a high degree of success\". \n\nIn her own day, the high quality of her work was often referred to in book reviews and other articles, and her success in working for top publishers testifies to the regard in which her work was held. She is today considered one of the top three book designers of the era, along with Margaret Neilson Armstrong and Sarah W. Whitman, and some place her as the best in this group.\n\nMorse often exhibited her work in shows of applied arts and book arts in venues like the New York Architectural League. In 1893, she took part in planning and exhibits for the Woman's Building of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition. Morse served as chair of the subcommittee on Book-Covers, Wood-Engraving, and Illustration of the New York State Board of Women Managers. The main goal of this project was to create exhibitions illustrating women's contributions to art, industry, sciences, social reforms, and philanthropic work. Morse also created an exhibition for the exposition that displayed eleven of her own book-cover designs. She placed well in the exhibition, receiving both a gold medal and a diploma for her designs.\n\nMorse wrote a chapter for the Woman's Building Handbook titled \"Women Illustrators\" that included photographs of her designs for books including \"The Chevalier of Pensieri-Vani\" (92-1); \"The Chatelaine of La Trinite\" (92-2); \"Old Ways and New\" (94-2); \"The Alhambra\" (92-8); \"Scenes from the Life of Christ\" (92-7); and \"The Conquest Granada\" (93-3). She also created the cover for the Distaff Series, which was a set of six books written, designed, and typeset by women, published by Harper & Brothers, and sold in the Woman's Building.\n\nThe market for artists skilled in designing covers for cloth-bound books dropped off in the early 1900s with the invention of paper book jackets. As a result, Morse decided to shift into teaching. In 1896 she entered Pratt Institute in New York City, graduating in 1897 with a two-year degree in teaching. She \nmoved to Scranton, Pennsylvania to accept a position in the city's public school system. At this time Scranton was a wealthy city and Morse made a better living as a teacher than she ever did as a designer. \n\nFor her first position, Morse was appointed supervisor of the art and drawing programs for local elementary schools. After two years, she accepted the position of supervisor for the art and drawing programs for the high schools. She worked out of Scranton Central High School, which was considered to be the best school in the area and served as a college preparatory school for both girls and boys. Morse was offered her final position in 1917 as district director of all art and drawing programs in both elementary and high schools across the area. She remained in this position until her retirement in 1924 after a quarter century in the Scranton school system.\n\nAfter her retirement, Morse returned to New York City and moved in with her widowed sister. Not much is known of her life in the succeeding decades. She died in 1961 in the Bronx's St. Barnabus Hospital. She donated 58 of her book covers to the Metropolitan Museum of Art Library where they were exhibited for a short while. They then were preserved in the library's print holdings and remained inaccessible until 1997. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4669301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4669301", "title": "Amri culture", "text": "Amri culture\n\nAmri culture is attributed to Amri archaeological sites in Sindh and Balochistan provinces of Pakistan. It flourished in the 4th and 3rd millennia BC. The typesite is Amri, Sindh.\n\nAt least 160 settlements attributed to the Amri Culture have been discovered, mainly in Balochistan, but also in lower Sindh. They are often distributed along the terraces of old and active river courses and consist of sites of different size and shape, which are sometimes stratified below settlements of later periods. Among these, that of the Tharro Hills, near the town of Gujo, is one of the most famous of lower Sindh.\n"}
{"id": "29015447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29015447", "title": "Ancient Near East studies", "text": "Ancient Near East studies\n\nAncient Near East studies (or ANE studies) is the field of academic study of the Ancient Near East (ANE). As such it is an umbrella term for Assyriology, in some cases extending to Egyptology.\n\nIn Britain the first Assyriological appointments in the University of London date to 1904, when T. G. Pinches of the British Museum was appointed to a professorship.\n\n\n\nThe following list does not include journals in the field of Old Testament studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17850976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17850976", "title": "Andrew Jakubowicz", "text": "Andrew Jakubowicz\n\nAndrew Jakubowicz is an Australian academic and Professor of Sociology at the University of Technology Sydney. Jakubowicz holds a PhD from UNSW and an Honours Degree in Government from Sydney University. Since the early 1970s, Jakubowicz's work has focused on race relations, theories of cultural and ethnic diversity, disability and media. He was foundation director of the Centre for Multicultural Studies at the University of Wollongong and foundation chair of the Disability Studies and Research Institute. Jakubowicz has taught at universities in the United States, Europe and Asia; he is co-director of the UTS Centre for Cosmopolitan Civil Societies. \n\n"}
{"id": "13449596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13449596", "title": "Anne C. Klein", "text": "Anne C. Klein\n\n\"For the fashion designer, see Anne Klein\".\n\nAnne Carolyn Klein (Lama Rigzin Drolma) is Professor of Religious Studies at Rice University in Houston, Texas and co-founding director and resident teacher at Dawn Mountain, a Tibetan temple, community center and research institute.\n\nShe specializes in Buddhist thought and practice, Tibetan philosophical texts, Tibetan language, Contemplative Studies and Women's studies, with an emphasis in traditions associated with the Heart Essence Vast Expanse. Her books explore the nature of perception, consciousness and mystic experience as understood from a variety of Indian and Tibetan Buddhist traditions. Her forthcoming book, Strand of Jewels: My Teachers' Essential Guidance on Dzogchen is a translation of the Dzogchen text by Khetsun Sangpo Rinpoche.\n\nKlein has been a practicing Buddhist and student of Buddhist thought since 1971, when she studied with Kensur Ngawang Lekden, the last Abbot of the Tantric College of Lower Lhasa. She then met Geshe Wangyal in New Jersey in 1971, and began studying and practicing under Khetsun Sangpo Rinpoche of Kathmandu in 1973, and receiving teaching authorization from him in 1995, and the title of Dorje Lopon (Lama) from her teacher in Tibet, in 2010. She has studied extensively with a number of prominent Geluk and Dzogchen teachers in India, Nepal and the United States, including Lama Gonpo Tseten.\n\nDawn Mountain Tibetan Temple, co-founded in Houston with Dr. Harvey Aronson, offers a blend of traditional Tibetan Buddhist learning and practice, as well as supportive practices and cross-cultural reflection. It thus seeks to be a bridge for modern Western students seeking to understand and genuinely engage in Buddhist teachings.\n\nIn her dharma teaching, Klein emphasizes the need for embodiment in meditation practice and for an awareness that encompasses cultural as well as personal insights. Since 1998 she has been developing and leading Buddhism in the Body workshops with Phyllis Pay. These have been offered in Berkeley, Houston, Esalen Institute, and Arizona.\n\nAfter graduating from Harpur College (now Binghamton University) \"cum laude\" with Highest Honors in English, Anne Klein earned her M.A. in Buddhist Studies from the University of Wisconsin–Madison and her PhD in Religious/Tibetan Studies from the University of Virginia. Following this she was awarded a Teaching and Research postdoctoral position at Harvard Divinity School as a Research Associate in Women's Studies and the History of Religion. It was here that she began work on what became her book \"Meeting the Great Bliss Queen,\" putting the significance and symbolism of Yeshe Tsogyal, a female Buddha renowned throughout Tibet, in conversation with contemporary western and feminist concerns.\n\nAnne Klein has received National Endowment for the Humanities translation grants and an American Council of Learned Societies Contemplative Studies grant. She is currently a recipient of a Ford Foundation grant under the rubric of Buddhism, Self and Gender: Traditional Buddhism and Modern Western Culture, A Living Dialogue.\n\nShe was for over twenty years a member of the Board of Directors of Ligmincha Institute, an international community for the study and preservation of Bon Buddhism founded by Geshe Tenzin Wangyal Rinpoche. She is also on the Board of Asia Society, Houston, and has several times been Faculty at the Mind and Life Summer Research Institute in Garrison, NY\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3753305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3753305", "title": "Arabian Oryx Sanctuary", "text": "Arabian Oryx Sanctuary\n\nThe Arabian Oryx Sanctuary is an animal sanctuary in the Omani Central Desert and Coastal Hills, it contains rare fauna, including a free-ranging herd of Arabian oryx, the first since the species' extinction in the wild in 1972, and its subsequent reintroduction in 1982 at this site.\n\nThe endangered houbara bustard breeds in the wild only at sites within the sanctuary. Other species found here include the largest wild population of the endangered Arabian gazelle, as well as Nubian ibex, Arabian wolves, honey badgers, and caracals.\n\nOn June 28, 2007, the reserve was removed from the World Heritage Site register. UNESCO cited Oman's decision to reduce the site by 90% and the decline of the population of Arabian oryx from 450 in 1996 to 65 as a result of poaching and loss of habitat. At that time only four mating pairs remained.\n\n"}
{"id": "739661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739661", "title": "Attack ad", "text": "Attack ad\n\nIn political campaigns, an attack ad is an advertisement whose message is designed to wage a personal attack against an opposing candidate or political party in order to gain support for the attacking candidate and attract voters. Attack ads often form part of negative campaigning or smear campaigns, and in large or well-financed campaigns, may be disseminated via mass media.\n\nAn attack ad will generally unfairly criticize an opponent's political platform, usually by pointing out its faults. Often the ad will simply make use of innuendo, based on opposition research.\n\nTelevised attack ads rose to prominence in the United States in the 1960s, especially since Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations require over-the-air commercial TV stations with licenses issued by the FCC—effectively all regulated TV stations, since others would either be public television or be pirated—to air political ads by both parties, whether it be attack ads or more traditional political ads. Although cable television and the Internet are not required to air such ads, attack ads have become commonplace on both mediums as well.\n\nOne of the earliest and most famous television attack ads, known as \"Daisy\", was used by Lyndon Johnson against Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential election. The ad opened with a young girl innocently picking petals from a daisy, while a man's voice performed a countdown to zero. It then zoomed in to an extreme close-up to her eye, and cut to an image of a nuclear explosion. The ad was shocking and disturbing, but also very effective. It convinced many that Goldwater's more aggressive approach to fighting the Cold War could result in a nuclear conflict.\n\nAttack ads were used again by the campaign of George H.W. Bush against Democratic candidate Michael Dukakis in the 1988 presidential election. The two most famous were the \"Willie Horton\" and \"Tank Ride\" ads. The \"Willie Horton\" ad began with a statement of Vice President Bush's support of the death penalty. Then it described the case of Willie Horton, who was convicted of murder. The ad state that Governor Dukakis's prison furlough program (unsupervised weekend passes from Massachusetts prison) released Horton ten times; in one of those furloughs, he kidnapped a young couple, stabbed the boy and repeatedly raped the girl. The ad ended with, \"Weekend prison passes. Dukakis on crime.\"\n\nThe \"Tank Ride\" ad from 1988 was an attack on Dukakis by the GOP. Though the ad was inaccurate, it created a lasting negative impression and helped guarantee Dukakis' defeat. The ad suggested that Bush was more supportive of military spending and weapons programs than Dukakis. The footage, pulled from the news media, showed Dukakis riding a tank in his attempt to counter the claim that he was weak on defense. He wore a large, oversized helmet and a wide smile, which was used by the GOP to insinuate that he was a fool. The GOP also added gear sounds from an 18-wheeler truck to imply that Dukakis could not run the tank smoothly – although tanks do not have gears that grind.\n\nThe 2008 Democratic presidential primaries featured an ad by Hillary Clinton directed at her main rival at the time, Barack Obama, which aired days before the Texas primary. The ad began by showing children asleep in bed while phone rang in the background. A voice-over stated that it was 3 a.m., the phone was ringing in the White House, and that \"something’s happening in the world\". The voice-over then asked voters if they wanted someone who \"already knows the world’s leaders, knows the military\" and is \"tested and ready to lead in a dangerous world\" to pick up the phone. While Obama was never mentioned by name, the implication was clear and the ad set off a firestorm of discussion and controversy, causing even Obama himself to respond and describe it as an ad that \"play[ed] on people’s fears\", predicting it would not work. Later in the campaign, after Obama had become the Democratic nominee, Republican nominee John McCain echoed a similar sentiment. In a controversial ad called \"Celebrity\", McCain's campaign asked, \"[Barack Obama] is the biggest celebrity in the world. But, is he ready to lead?\" The ad juxtaposed Obama supporters with photos of Britney Spears and Paris Hilton.\n\nBy 2010, attack ads had spread online as political candidates publish their ads on YouTube. Carly Fiorina, a Republican candidate from California, released a video on YouTube depicting former Republican opponent Tom Campbell, as a \"Fiscal conservative in name only”.\n\nThe first attack ads of the 2006 Mexican general election were launched by the conservative National Action Party against Andrés Manuel López Obrador; the ad claimed that López Obrador's \"populistic\" proposals would drive Mexico further into economic crisis and bankruptcy. The Party of the Democratic Revolution answered with attack ads against the current president Felipe Calderón, claiming that he was partly culpable for the 1994 economic crisis; since Calderón was running with a motto of \"the president of employment\", the ads closed with, \"dirty hands, zero employments\". After López Obrador alleged that Calderón was illegally patronizing his brother-in-law Hildebrando Zavala, the tagline was changed to \"dirty hands, one employment for his brother-in-law\".\n\nAlthough it has been found that Canadian elections are less likely to use attack ads than US elections, there is still remains a strong presence of negative ads in Canadian campaigns. Comparatively, Canadians were more likely to use acclaim ads- or ads that praise another individual- than Americans, as American campaigns are much more likely to use attack ads than Canadian campaigns. Overall, however, Canadian campaigns are more likely to use attack ads than acclaim ads, similarly to the US.\n\nPolitical attack ads across all types of media can have different strategic aims. Some are character attacks, trying to persuade the viewer to think differently about a candidates character in hopes that they will reconsider their perception of the candidate and who they are as a person. Another strategy is an attack on the candidates' policy or political ideas. This attempts to derail one's support for a candidate by persuading them that the candidate-under-attack's political ideas are illogical or will be ineffective.\n\nWhile attack ads have primarily been relegated for political usage, there have been some instances of private businesses running them. In 2013, Highmark, a healthcare company associated with the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) were unable to reach an agreement on whether Highmark's insurance would be accepted at UPMC. Highmark also entered into negotiations to acquire the struggling West Penn Allegheny Health System; Highmark and UPMC then started airing attack ads at each other. Both parties' ads accused the other of pushing patients with their respective health insurance plans to hospitals operated by their respective health insurance provider, as well as attacking each other's nonprofit status.\n\nStudies suggest that attack ads have no effect on Voter turnout in the United States. There is, in fact, a noted negative impact on voter turnout by some researches, but it has no bearing on the evidence as it is statistically insignificant. The only case in which evidence reveals a correlation between negative advertising and voter turnout is for \"late\" negativity. This is when two conditions exist for the voter: they have already selected their preferred candidate and the attack and the negativity is about their selected candidate. If these two conditions exist, there is a negative effect on voter turnout. In this case, a forty percent increase in \"late\" negative ads will decrease the likelihood of turnout by 0.087, and a sixty percent increase in late ads merits a 0.145 decrease in turnout. Thus, the only case in which attack ads have been found to effect on voter turn out is when the voter has already selected their candidate, as they realize that their candidate is potentially no better than the alternative options.\n\nStudies claim that 82% of Americans dislike attack ads, and 53% believe that the \"ethics and values\" of election campaigns have worsened since 1985. The voting public see attack ads as an element of smear campaigning. Other research indicates that voters are open to candidates attacking each other if the issues in question are \"appropriate\". In a 1999 survey of Virginia voters, 80.7% felt it is fair for a candidate to criticize an opponent for \"talking one way and voting another\", though but only 7.7% feel it is fair for a candidate to attack an opponent for the \"behavior of his/her family members\".\n\nPolitical operatives, however, have found attack ads to be useful, and social psychologists claim that negative information has a tendency \"to be more influential than equally extreme or equally likely positive information.\" University of Toronto professor Scott Hawkins \"suggests that even a mention in the media that a candidate or party is planning to run negative advertisements can be beneficial, since it plants seeds of doubt in the voter's mind, especially early in the campaign when voters tend to be less involved. If the reported claims turn up in advertisements later in the campaign, they already seem familiar to the voter.\"\n\nIn the United States, researchers have consistently found that negative advertising has positive effects. Negative advertising \"is likely to stimulate voters by increasing the degree to which they care about the election's outcome or by increasing ties to their party’s nominee;\" it makes the election seem more important, and thus increases voter turnout. Other research has found that negative advertisements only appeal to partisan voters, and that it alienates independents, causing elections to be fought among partisan extremes.\n\nIf an ad is seen as going too far or being \"too personal\", voters may turn against the party that put the ad out. For example, in the Canada 1993 federal election, the Progressive Conservative (PC) Party attacked Liberal Party leader Jean Chrétien by implicitly mocking his Bell's Palsy partial facial paralysis. Outrage followed, and the PC Party's image was badly damaged in the polls. Similar backlash happened to the Liberal Party of Canada in the 2006 federal election, when they created an attack ad suggesting that Conservative leader Stephen Harper would use armed Canadian soldiers to police major cities. Though the ads were never aired, they diminished the believability of other ads by the Liberal Party. A leaked copy, broadcast on the news, offended many Canadians, particularly the military, some of whom were fighting in Afghanistan at the time.\n\nIn the run up to and the 2015 Canadian federal election itself, Justin Trudeau, Leader of the Liberal Party of Canada and the son of Canadian Prime Minister, Pierre Trudeau, was subjected to a sustained negative ad campaign by the Conservative Party of Canada. However, the \"Just Not Ready\" campaign was judged by the public as unfair and mocking of the Liberal leader. More importantly, the advertising campaign lowered public expectations of Trudeau's performance that even Conservative personnel noted that he would impress people if he showed any display of competence in public events such as the televised debates. That proved to be the case, and Trudeau took advantage of the public's low expectations to impress the public with his articulate and passionate manner to garner support throughout the campaign until his party won a majority government.\n\nIn 2006 Republican challenger Paul R. Nelson campaigned against Democrat Ron Kind for a seat in the United States House of Representatives. Nelson's ad stated, \"Ron Kind has no trouble spending your money, he’d just rather spend it on sex,\" and, \"Instead of spending money on cancer research, Ron Kind voted to spend your money to study the sex lives of Vietnamese prostitutes.\" Nelson’s challenge fell short, as Ron Kind was reelected, while the attack's outrageous presentation provoked an uproar from Republicans and Democrats alike. A 1999 survey showed that challengers lose almost 3 points on the feeling thermometer (a 100-point scale used to assess survey-takers feelings on certain issues) when a candidate engages in mudslinging. The study also shows that the influence of negativity is less powerful for challengers than for incumbents.\n\nCampaigns often establish or support front groups (organizations that appear to be independent voluntary associations or charity) to run counter-attack ads. This technique ties into the wider practice of astroturfing. Former political speechwriter Leonard Steinhorn points out that \"issue ads\" run by front groups use deceptive names to hide their true sponsors – such as the pharmaceutical industry–backed United Seniors Association, which spent $17 million on ads during the 2000 US presidential election. As front ads are not controlled by the candidates they support, the candidates are insulated from criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "16562783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16562783", "title": "Bibliography of the Arab–Israeli conflict", "text": "Bibliography of the Arab–Israeli conflict\n\nThis is an incomplete bibliography of the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41582886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41582886", "title": "Brain on Fire", "text": "Brain on Fire\n\nBrain on Fire: My Month of Madness is a 2012 New York Times Bestselling autobiography by \"New York Post\" writer Susannah Cahalan. The book details Cahalan's struggle with a rare autoimmune disease and her recovery. It was first published on November 13, 2012 through Free Press in hardback, and was later reprinted in paperback by Simon & Schuster after the two companies merged. \n\nThe book narrates Cahalan's issues with anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis and the process by which she was diagnosed with this form of encephalitis. She wakes up in a hospital with no memory of the events of the previous month, during which time she would have violent episodes and delusions. Her eventual diagnosis is made more difficult by various physicians misdiagnosing her with several theories such as \"partying too much\" and schizoaffective disorder. Eventually several physicians, including Dr. Souhel Najjar, began to suspect that Cahalan was suffering from an autoimmune disease. Najjar diagnosed Cahalan using a test that involved her drawing a clock, a test normally given to people suspected of having dementia or Alzheimer's disease. Rather than drawing the clock face normally, the disease caused Cahalan to draw all of the numbers 1 through 12 on the right face of the clock, because the right side of her brain, which regulates the left side of the body, was inflamed. Najjar used this to help diagnose Cahalan and start her road to recovery.\n\nThe book also covers Cahalan's life after her recovery, including her reactions to watching videotapes of her psychotic episodes while in the hospital. Cahalan also discusses her symptoms prior to her hospitalization, as she had previously been diagnosed by a psychiatrist with bipolar disorder. While researching, she learned that the disease had only been discovered three years before she became ill. Her research indicated that in 2009 most people with the disease were either misdiagnosed or undiagnosed. Cahalan was fortunate to be correctly diagnosed because, according to Najjar's estimates, only 10 percent of people with the disease were properly diagnosed at that time. Since then, a better understanding of the disease and its symptoms has resulted in more frequent diagnosis and treatment.\n\nCritical reception for \"Brain on Fire\" has been mostly positive. NPR commented that the author was \"a naturally talented prose stylist\" and that \"she perfectly tempers her brutal honesty with compassion and something like vulnerability.\" The \"Washington Post\" praised Cahalan's researching abilities for the book, as they noted that she had to rely on information from others, including family members and medical documents.\n\nIn May 2014, it was announced that the book was being adapted into a film of the same name starring Chloë Grace Moretz and produced by Cahalan and Charlize Theron. The film was released on Netflix on June 22, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "6528254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6528254", "title": "Citator", "text": "Citator\n\nIn legal research, a citator is a citation index of legal resources, one of the best-known of which in the United States is Shepard's Citations. Given a reference of a legal decision, a citator allows the researcher to find newer documents which cite the original document and thus to reconstruct the judicial history of cases and statutes. Using a citator in this way is colloquially referred to as \"Shepardizing\".\n\nBecause cases cite related cases, citators can be used to find cases which are on topics related to a given topic. A common research strategy is to use \"one good case\" to find related cases.\n\nAnother important application is to determine whether the conclusions of one case have been followed, overturned, or modified in later cases, especially by higher courts. This is important for legal systems in which the binding authority of a case is contingent on precedent.\n\nCitators often include annotations indicating the history and treatment of a case in citing opinions. Shepard's notes 'history' as affirmed, modified, reversed, same case, Superseded, or vacated; and 'treatment' as criticised, distinguished, explained, j dissenting opinion, ~ consenting opinion, Limited, overruled, or questioned.\n\nAlthough originally distributed only as printed and bound volumes, citators are now typically on-line services such as LexisNexis's online \"Shepard's Citations\", Justis Publishing's provider-neutral JustCite, Westlaw's KeyCite, Bloomberg Law's BCite, and the Oxford Law Citator of Oxford University Press.\n\nCitation indexes to the Bible date to the 13th century.\n\nIn English legal literature, volumes of judicial reports included lists of cases cited in that volume starting with \"Raymond's Reports\" (1743) and followed by \"Douglas's Reports\" (1783). Simon Greenleaf (1821) published an alphabetical list of cases with notes on later decisions affecting the precedential authority of the original decision.\n\nThe first true citation index dates to the 1860 publication of Labatt's \"Table of Cases...California...\", followed in 1872 by Wait's \"Table of Cases...New York...\". But the most important and best-known citation index came with the 1873 publication of Shepard's Citations.\n\nFrank Shepard Company started publishing citators in New York City in 1873 and other companies provided similar services at around the same time, \"e.g.\" George Fred Williams's \"Massachusetts citations: a table of cases, overruled, denied, doubted, criticised, approved, and cited by the Supreme Judicial Court\" (Boston, 1878).\n\nThe name 'citator' appears to have been coined by the Citator Publishing Company (Detroit) in 1908 in \"The Citator: an annotated compilation of citations of the Kansas Supreme Court...\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38325483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38325483", "title": "Doriscus", "text": "Doriscus\n\nDoriscus () was an ancient settlement in Thrace (modern-day Greece), on the northern shores of Aegean Sea. It was notable for remaining in Persian hands for many years after the Second Persian invasion of Greece, and remained thus known as the last Persian stronghold in Europe.\n\nThe ancient city was located in a vast plain of the same name, where the River Hebrus was crossing in the middle.\n\nThe city fell into the Persian hands without any resistance, during the Darius the Great' Scythian Expedition and inclusion of the Black Sea territories into the Persian Empire, around 522 BCE. He built a Royal Fortress and stationed a large number of Persian troops there.\n\nHerodotus (7.59) reports that Xerxes the Great, during his campaign of invading the Greek City States in 480 BCE, was the first place he stopped to review his troops after crossing the Hellespont.\n\nHerodotus also writes that Xerxes I of Persia made Mascames, son of Megadostes, governor of Doriscus in order to replace the man Darius I had appointed.\n\nDoriscus is notable as it was one of the few Persian towns in the Balkans that remained under the Persian sway, even after the Second Persian invasion of Greece. The Athenian general Cimon that led the conquests after the Persian retreat was unable to capture it. Herodotus states that Doriscus \"was never taken\" from the Persians. Its governor Mascamos was honored by the Persian king for his defence.\n\n"}
{"id": "188369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188369", "title": "Electronic Privacy Information Center", "text": "Electronic Privacy Information Center\n\nElectronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) is an independent non-profit research center in Washington, D.C. EPIC's mission is to focus public attention on emerging privacy and related human rights issues. EPIC works to protect privacy, freedom of expression, and democratic values, and to promote the Public Voice in decisions concerning the future of the Internet.\n\nEPIC is involved with wide range of civil liberties, consumer protection, and human rights issues. EPIC has pursued several successful consumer privacy complaints with the US Federal Trade Commission, concerning Snapchat (faulty privacy technology), WhatsApp (privacy policy after acquisition by Facebook), Facebook (changes in user privacy settings), Google (roll-out of Google Buzz), Microsoft (Hailstorm log-in), and Choicepoint (sale of personal information to identity thieves). EPIC has also prevailed in significant Freedom of Information Act cases against the CIA, the DHS, the Dept. of Education, the FBI, the NSA, the ODNI, and the TSA. EPIC has also filed many \"friend of the court\" briefs on law and technology, including Riley v. California (U.S. 2014) (concerning cell phone privacy), and litigated important privacy cases, including EPIC v. DHS (D.C. Cir. 2011), which led to the removal of the x-ray body scanners in US airports, and EPIC v. NSA (D.C. Cir. 2014), which led to the release of the NSA's formerly secret cybersecurity authority. EPIC also challenged the NSA's domestic surveillance program in a petition to the US Supreme Court. In re EPIC, (U.S. 2013) after the release of the \"Verizon Order\" in June 2013. One of EPIC's current cases concerns the obligation of the Federal Aviation Administration to establish privacy regulations prior to the deployment of commercial drones in the United States.\n\nEPIC works closely with a distinguished advisory board, with expertise in law, technology and public policy.\n\nBased in Washington, D.C., EPIC engages the national debate over the future of privacy. With an office in Somerville, Massachusetts, EPIC works on state and local issues across the country. And with strong ties to organizations around the world, EPIC has a global presence.\n\nThe EPIC Open Government Project is one of the nation's leading government transparency programs. Combining decades of expertise in the Freedom of Information Act with experienced litigation attorneys, EPIC obtains important government records to promote accountability and safeguard civil liberties.\n\nThe EPIC Open Government Project pursues four distinct program activities. First, the project actively pursues secret government documents through the FOIA. Second, the EPIC Open Government Project recommends improvements to agency rulemakings concerning transparency, privacy, and civil liberties. Third, EPIC trains law school students on utilizing the FOIA to promote open government. Fourth, EPIC participates in coalitions with other government transparency organizations. EPIC's extensive press outreach and popular website allow EPIC to make FOIA documents widely available to the press and the public.\n\nThe Public Voice coalition was established in 1996 by EPIC to promote public participation in decisions concerning the future of the Internet. The Public Voice has pursued issues ranging from privacy and freedom of expression to consumer protection and Internet governance. Through international conferences, reports and funding for travel the Public Voice project seeks to increase the presence of NGOs at meetings across the globe. In cooperation with the OECD, UNESCO, and other international organizations, the Public Voice project brings civil society leaders face to face with government officials for constructive engagement about current policy issues. Public Voice events have been held in Buenos Aires, Cancun, Cape Town, Dubai, Hong Kong, Honolulu, Kuala Lumpur, Madrid, Ottawa, Paris, Seoul, Washington, and Wroclaw.\n\nThe Public Voice project is made possible, in part, by support from the Ford Foundation, the Markle Foundation, the Open Society Institute, and EPIC. The Public Voice has provided support for several organizations, including the Center for International Media Action, CPSR, EDRi, People for Internet Responsibility, Privacy International, CPSR-Peru, and the TransAlantic Consumer Dialogue (TACD).\n\nThe Public Voice helped establish the Civil Society Information Society Advisory Council (CSISAC) which is the \"voice of civil society\" at the OECD. CSISAC's mission is set out in the Seoul Declaration adopted at the OECD Ministerial Meeting in Seoul, 2008. CSISAC contributes to the OECD's work on Digital Economy Policy and promotes the exchange of information between the OECD and civil society. The OECD provides civil society participants with substantial empirical analysis that enable informed policy assessments; CSISAC provides the OECD with the essential perspectives of experts and NGOs leaders. CSISAC strengthens the relationship between civil society and the OECD and promotes better-informed and more widely accepted policies for the IT sector.\n\n\"There is an increasing recognition that we must involve all stakeholders including the voice of civil society. The Public Voice meeting and its contributions to the Forum have been constructive and positive.\"—OECD Under Secretary General\n\nThe EPIC Amicus Project seeks to promote privacy and government oversight by filing \"friend of the court\" briefs in federal and state courts. The EPIC Amicus Program is one of the most prolific appellate advocacy programs in the United States, filing almost 100 amicus briefs on emerging privacy and civil liberties issues, including more than 20 briefs for the US Supreme Court. The EPIC Project brings together experts in the fields of law, technology, and privacy policy with a team of in-house litigators to identify and file in cutting edge privacy cases. EPIC's amicus briefs have been cited by judges and justices in significant Fourth Amendment, consumer privacy, communications privacy, medical privacy, workplace privacy, and open government cases. EPIC continues to expand the scope of the Amicus Program, including arguing cases before the New Jersey Supreme Court, the New Mexico Supreme Court, and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. EPIC's amicus participation has also been requested by judges in both federal and state cases. And EPIC attorneys frequently speak at judicial conferences, both in the United States and around the world, about emerging privacy issues and the role of the judiciary.\n\nThe EPIC Consumer Privacy Project advocates for the rights consumers and Internet users, and works to protect consumers' personal information and autonomy in the digital marketplace. EPIC promotes the implementation and enforcement of Fair Information Practices, and the enactment of the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights, so that consumers do not have to choose between engaging in modern society and retaining their right to privacy.\n\nEPIC's Domestic Surveillance Project focuses public attention on merging technologies used to conduct domestic surveillance. As federal Judge Chutkan explained in a case brought by EPIC, \"There can be little dispute that the general public has a genuine, tangible interest in a system designed to store and manipulate significant quantities of its own biometric data, particularly given the great numbers of people from whom such data will be gathered.\"\n\nEPIC's Domestic Surveillance Project looks also at drone surveillance, social media monitoring, police body-worn cameras, passenger profiling, vehicle tracking and cyber-surveillance. The Project pursues several activities to inform the public and to advocate for better privacy protections. EPIC uses FOIA to obtain documents about government surveillance programs. EPIC also files comments with federal agencies, leads coalition advocacy efforts, and testifies before state and federal legislatures for better privacy protections. EPIC has filed numerous amicus briefs in important court cases that address surveillance issues.\n\nThrough the Administrative Law Project, EPIC aims to compel federal agencies to adopt practices that safeguard privacy and promote transparency. EPIC has pursued this mission through extensive comments to agencies, and subsequent lawsuits in instances where agencies fail to adopt EPIC's recommendations. Over the last twenty years, EPIC has successfully advocated for individual privacy rights in agency rulemaking proceedings. EPIC has also successfully sued the government to force an agency to conduct a public rulemaking as required under the APA.\n\nEPIC maintains and publishes its newsletter, the \"EPIC Alert\", every two weeks.\n\nEPIC also publishes several books on privacy and open government, including \"Privacy in the Modern Age: The Search for Solutions, Privacy Law Sourcebook, Privacy and Human Rights, Litigation Under the Federal Open Government Laws, Filters and Freedom, The Public Voice WSIS Sourcebook,\" and \"The Consumer Law Sourcebook\".\n\nEPIC maintains web sites for the Privacy Coalition, the Public Voice coalition, and the National Committee for Voting Integrity.\n\n"}
{"id": "19388266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19388266", "title": "Enkapune Ya Muto", "text": "Enkapune Ya Muto\n\nEnkapune Ya Muto, also known as Twilight Cave, is a Late Stone Age site on the Mau Escarpment of Kenya. Beads made of perforated ostrich egg shells found at the site have been dated to 40,000 years ago. The beads found at the site represent the early human use of personal ornaments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56325961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56325961", "title": "Ernest Madu", "text": "Ernest Madu\n\nDr. Ernest Madu (born February 18, 1960) is a nuclear cardiologist whose work focuses on providing affordable public healthcare in low-resource nations. As founder, chairman, and CEO of the Heart Institute of the Caribbean (HIC), Dr. Madu’s research concentrates on the management and health effects of globalization in susceptible populations. Dr. Richard Chazal, President of the American College of Cardiology, noted that Dr. Madu has made \"great contributions to the College and to the international cardiovascular community.\" While TED notes that “Dr. Madu’s research on noninvasive evaluation of coronary artery disease in obese individuals has become a standard evaluating tool” in the world of medicine.\n\nExtramural honors and awards include:\n\n"}
{"id": "22793916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22793916", "title": "Five Orders of Periwigs", "text": "Five Orders of Periwigs\n\nThe Five Orders of Periwigs (\"The Five Orders of Perriwigs as they were Worn at the Late Coronation Measured Architectonically\") is a 1761 engraving by William Hogarth. It contains several levels of satire. First, and most clearly, it lampoons the fashion for outlandish wigs in the mid to late 18th century. Second, in classifying the wigs into \"orders\", it satirises the formulation of canons of beauty from the analysis of surviving pieces of classical architecture and sculpture from ancient Greece and ancient Rome, particularly the precise drawings of James \"Athenian\" Stuart (published in the \"Antiquities of Athens\", the first volume of which appeared in 1762). To the lower right, the engraving gives its publication date as 15 October 1761.\n\nOf the engraving, Hogarth himself commented in his book of anecdotes:\n\nAs a parallel to the five orders of classical architecture identified by Palladio (Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, Composite and Tuscan), the engraving postulates five \"orders\" of periwig, from the relatively simple \"Episcopal\" (for the clergy), through the \"Old Peerian or Aldermanic\" (for lords and council officials) and \"Lexonic\" (for lawyers) to the more ornate \"Composite or Half Natural\", and finally the effete \"Queerinthian or Queue de Reynard\" (a pun on the French for \"foxtail\").\n\nA scale shows the \"Athenian Measure\" by which the dimensions of each wig are annotated, with one \"nodule\" comprising 3 \"nasos\" (noses) and each \"naso\" of 3 \"minutes\". The component parts of each wig are labelled with letters A to I, each denoting a mock architectural terms, from A: the \"Corona or Lermier or Foretop\" and B: the \"Architrave or Archivolt or Caul\" to H: \"Fillet or Ribbon\" and I: \"Helices or Volute or Spiral or Curl\". \n\nSeveral of the faces depicted have been identified. Those in the Episcopal line are intended to resemble Doctor William Warburton, Bishop of Gloucester (left) and Doctor Samuel Squire, Bishop of St David's (right). In the \"Old Peerian or Aldermanic\" row are Lord Melcombe (left) and another. The wig depicted to the far right is a \"remarkable winged periwig\" worn by Sir Samuel Fludyer, 1st Baronet when he became Lord Mayor of London earlier in 1761.\n\nAt the bottom of the engraving is an inscription stating that a series of six folio volumes published over 17 years will set out the measurements of the periwigs of the ancients. This satirises Stuart's \"Antiquities of Athens\". Above, a line of female profiles shows, from left to right, the face of Queen Charlotte and five others, each wearing a triple necklace and bearing a coronet: a duchess, a marchioness, a countess, a viscountess, and a baroness. They have been alternatively identified as the Ladies of the Bedchamber in 1761 - the Duchess of Ancaster, Duchess of Hamilton, Countess of Effingham, Countess of Northumberland, Viscountess Weymouth, and Viscountess Bolingbroke.\n\nHogarth created the engraving a few weeks after the coronation of George III and Queen Charlotte, inspired by the elaborate costume worn by those who attended. Horace Walpole wrote: \"Some of the peeresses were dressed over night, slept in armchairs, and were waked if they tumbled their heads\".\n\nA number of spelling mistakes were noted in the first state of the engraving (\", \"). A second state of the engraving corrects a typographical error by inserting the letter \"e\" in \"\", and relabels the \"Episcopal\" order of periwigs as \"Episcopal and Parsonic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35297168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35297168", "title": "Gender inequality in the English Caribbean", "text": "Gender inequality in the English Caribbean\n\nGender inequality in the English Caribbean refers to gaps between individuals based on gender in the Anglophone countries of the Caribbean. These gaps persist in the areas of human and physical capital endowments, in economic opportunities, and in the ability to make choices to achieve desired outcomes (agency).\n\nCaribbean countries have been moving toward compliance with the United Nation's Convention on the Elimination on Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), but according to the UN Women Caribbean department, there is still work to be done to achieve gender equality in the region. In the English speaking Caribbean, women are disadvantaged in the labor market as well as the legislature, whereas men and boys face unequal outcomes in education. Amartya Sen’s capabilities approach asserts that all inequalities, including those relating to gender, keep individuals from securing opportunities and choosing from these opportunities to achieve desired outcomes.\n\nThe Caribbean is made of the chain of islands that border the Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. The region also includes mainland regions such as Guyana who identify culturally and historically with those island.\nThe Caribbean region is made up of many developing nations. Most of the islands of the English-speaking Caribbean have less than a century of independence from colonialism and, by the world’s standards, their governments are fairly young. In recent decades the world has seen significant changes in GDPs and other economic and globalization factors leading to increased inequality within and between countries. “In the last ten to fifteen years the Latin American and Caribbean region has undergone the most significant changes of economic policy since World War II.” Many of these policies were expected to create new jobs and greater equality. Still “people in Latin America and the Caribbean region face unequal opportunities in life and different chances of economic success and very unequal outcomes ” Areas such as education, labor and politics are just a few but important areas in which gender inequality is apparent in the region. Growing GDPs and globalization however, are not enough to offset the effect of gender inequality. With the exception of education women bear most of the negative impacts that occur as a result of gender inequality in the Caribbean region.\n\nWomen in the Caribbean make up a significant number of the labor force but still earn significantly less than their male counterparts. On average, 50 percent of women are a part of the formal sector as compared to more than 75 percent of men.\n\nUnemployment rates are high throughout the region. According to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the unemployment rates in Antigua and Barbuda are at 11 percent (2001 est), about 23 percent (2000 est) in Dominica, 20 percent in Saint Lucia (2003 est), and 25 percent in Grenada. Unemployment rates are especially high for women despite their higher educational attainment. According to the World Development Report of 2007/2008 the female unemployment rate in Jamaica is 207 percent of the male unemployment rate, in Guyana that number is 240 percent, in St. Lucia 164 percent, and 190 percent in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nInformal work, as defined by Martha Chen, is work that may be unpaid or work that is simply not a part of the formal legal structure. Many women and men in the Caribbean region are engaged on a large scale in the informal sector. Within the informal sector however, there is earning discrimination. Men tend to do the work that earns high wages whereas women do the work that is considered domestic. Within the informal sector women earn less wages than men. This has important implications for the region because most households are headed by women who are the sole breadwinners. This may also contribute to the poverty gender bias in the region. Informal work does not provide benefits such as healthcare and are especially vulnerable to economic shifts and natural disasters. Women in this region have less access to credit and other avenues that would allow them to enter the formal sector, therefore, many of their businesses, such as shop keeping, belong to the informal sector.\nOccupations such as inter island trade are largely unprotected. There are no assurances for healthcare, pregnancy leave, or sick leave.\n\nMoves have been made at decreasing the gender bias in labor. Caribbean countries have put in place minimum wage levels as well as paternity and maternity leave. In this region many of the men employed in the formal sector are less qualified than their female counterparts and in fact, many are under-qualified. As a result men are given more opportunities for onsite and occupational training. Women in the formal sector work less hours and earn lower wages. The Inter-American Development Bank reports that at every educational level, men earn higher wages than women. The wage levels for women with none, primary, and secondary education are similar. Women only see significant changes in their wages with tertiary education. This is not the case for men.\n\nCultural norms place the burden of care work and household work on women. Therefore, women are often forced into occupations that require them to reconcile their home responsibilities with their jobs. Many of the women who are employed within the formal sector, work as professionals which is a testament to their higher educational attainment. Still, there are fewer women in the workforce and they earn less than their male counterparts.\n\nWithin the Caribbean region, significant portions of the population participate in extra- and to a lesser extent, intra- regional migration. According to the World Bank, between 1989 and 2001, over 1.4 million Caribbean nationals migrated legally to the U.S. Migration, especially for economic reasons, also has a significant gender impact. Since the 1960s more West Indian women than West Indian men migrated to the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Professionals, particularly those skilled in Health and Education, have moved out of the region in large numbers. Women often migrate with the hope of having their family follow years later or making enough money to provide stable lives for their families back home. The major migration of women out of the Caribbean region has a tremendous impact on a region known to have notoriously low marriage rates, and in which many households are headed by women. Many families construct extended family units in which childcare and housework are split among the women.\n\nMigrant nursing programs find a large pool of recruits from the Caribbean. Traditionally nurses in the region were almost exclusively women. There are a substantial number of nurses from the Anglophone Caribbean working in the United States and an even greater number in the United Kingdom. Since 1980 as many as one third of Caribbean nurses are thought to have migrated. This has major implications for primary care facilities, such as health centers which rely on the region’s nurses.\n\nThe burden of care work (childcare, elderly care, and care for the sick) housework falls disproportionately on women in the Caribbean. Within the region there is little to no provision for free childcare so this burden has severe implications for women. Social norms permit women to work for the sustainment of their families, but also carries expectations about family life and customs, that favor men as breadwinners and women as homemakers. This is a surprising fact considering that women in the Caribbean have worked outside the home since the days of slavery, through indenture, and on through independence. These norms have a negative effect on the region because most households are headed by a sole female provider. Family life, child care, and elderly care often shapes women's wage work, constraining them to places near the home.\n\nWithin the region, marriage rates are low. Common-law relationships are common as well as visiting relationships where one partner lives or works in another country or at another primary residence. The general expectation throughout the region is that women remain monogamous whereas it is more acceptable for men to have multiple partners. It is common for men to have multiple families.\n\nViolence against women is widespread throughout the region. According to UN Women Caribbean, 1 in 3 women in the Caribbean will experience domestic violence. Three Caribbean countries are among the top 10 for reported incidence of rape, and all Caribbean countries have higher than the world average for rape. The devaluation of women's work, decreases their bargaining power within the home and this leads to widespread partner violence. Both women and girls are affected by violence. A large percentage of girls report forced sexual initiation.\n\nMost of the countries in the region have now fully criminalized rape within marriage and have added measure that give women full access to courts for orders of protection. Partnership for Peace, UN Trust Fund to End Violence Against Women, and other organizations are all working to end violence against women in region.\n\nThe countries of the Caribbean have a history of universal access to primary education and widely available secondary schooling. The Caribbean however, paints a different picture of gender and education than most of the other places in the world. Throughout the entire Caribbean girls outperform boys during primary school, specifically in the areas of mathematics, English and reading. On the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) exam, taken near the end of secondary school, girls were both more likely to score better than boys as well as outperform them across all subject areas. Reports have found that both the education of children’s parents and their presence at home were significant in predicting children’s attainment in school. This was especially true for fathers and male students who performed better when their fathers were both better educated and present in the home. \nBoys were more likely than girls to drop out before and during secondary school. Boys also had higher repetition rates. Women completed on average 13.3 years of schooling whereas their male counterparts completed 12.7 years. Women are enrolled in secondary and tertiary levels in greater numbers than men.\n\nWomen in the English speaking Caribbean gained the right to vote in their independent legislatures at the same time as men. The percentage of women who turn out to vote is similar to that of men however, women are significantly underrepresented in the island legislatures.\n\nWomen make up 15 percent of the islands' legislators. Within the region, the higher a country’s GDP the more likely of women holding cabinet ministries. However women’s higher educational attainment throughout the region does not correlate with higher representation within government. Female ministers are more likely to head ministries traditionally associated with women such as, Education, Tourism, Housing and Culture. Dominica, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago, and Jamaica have all seen women Prime Ministers or heads of state. Women in the region are largely underrepresented in politics. Jamaica's most former Prime Minister was a woman, the Honourable Portia Simpson-Miller. The Honorable Kamla Persad-Bissessar was the female Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago from May 26th 2010 to September 9th 2015. This is significant because these two islands have the largest GDPs in the English speaking Caribbean region. \nBorn May 15, 1919 Dame Eugenia Charles rose up to be the first female Prime Minister in the Caribbean and the first female Head of State in the Americas to be elected in her own right.\nBorn on the island of Dominica, she went on to study economics in Canada and the London School of Economics. She then moved back to her native Dominica as the first female lawyer on the island. She opened a law firm but soon found herself active in politics. In 1968 she opposed the Dominica Labour Party’s attempt to pass the Sedition Acts. She was appointed to the Legislature and the Assembly in 1970 and 1975 respectively. In 1972 she help found the Dominica Freedom Party which helped Dominica gain independence from the British Crown on November 3, 1978. After the devastation of Hurricane David in 1979 Charles’ plan for reconstruction helped her sweep the 1980 election. She led her country from 1980 to 1995 and became known as “The Iron Lady of the Caribbean.”\nCharles gained popularity on the world stage in 1983, when she encouraged the United States, under President Ragan, to invade Grenada after Cuban rebels had taken hold.\n\nCharles’ work in the area of reform, economics and Caribbean integration is notable. In 1991 Mary Eugenia Charles was knighted by Queen Elizabeth 11. Dame Eugenia Charles put in place the Women's Desk in her native Dominica and after her election it evolved into the Women's Bureau. This department provided for a more systematic involvement of women in development and was the first in the region.\n\nDame Eugenia Charles died on September 6, 2005.\n\nPoverty in the English Caribbean affects both men and women. The combination of the burden of care work and lack of opportunity in the labor market for women translates into poverty having a very gendered impact in the region. Women have limited access to resources, such as land and especially credit. Like the other factors, this is significant in a region where a majority of the households are headed solely by women. In islands like St. Vincent and the Grenadines and across the region women head 96 percent of all poor households. In Dominica, where the number of poor men and women is almost equal (about 28.8 percent), only 20 percent of the male poor population is unemployed whereas 33.8 percent of poor women are unemployed. In St. Lucia as with many other countries, women in the lowest socio-economic bracket were very likely to have their first birth during their teen years.\n\nOver the past decade, the English speaking Caribbean, under the lead of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), has made significant strides in improving gender parity. The United Nations Women Caribbean is also working to reach gender equity in the region. The CARICOM Secretariat and the United Nations Development Fund for women (UNIFEM) formed a task force in 2005 charged with identifying region specific indicators for reaching the UN's development goals.\n\nThe Caribbean Association for Feminist Research and Action (CAFRA), has worked to end violence against women and to secure sex workers rights. Individual countries have committed to putting in place women's councils. Dominica has had the Dominica National Council of women, which \"aims to sensitize, empower, and unite women and their families.\" Moves are being made within the entire region to improve education for young men, to improve representation of women in the legislature, to improve their conditions in the workforce and to relieve the burden of care work.\n\n"}
{"id": "39425949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39425949", "title": "Gender inequality in the United States", "text": "Gender inequality in the United States\n\nGender inequality in the United States has been diminishing throughout its history and significant advancements towards equality have been made beginning mostly in the early 1900s. However, despite this progress, gender inequality in the United States continues to persist in many forms, including the disparity in women's political representation and participation, occupational segregation, the gender pay gap, and the unequal distribution of household labor. In the past 20 years there have been emerging issues for boys/men, an achievement and attainment gap in education is a discussed subject. The alleviation of gender inequality has been the goal of several major pieces of legislation since 1920 and continuing to the present day. As of 2017, the World Economic Forum ranks the United States 49th best in terms of gender equality out of 144 countries.\n\nIn addition to the inequality faced by transgender women, inequality, prejudice, and violence against transgender men and women, as well as gender nonconforming individuals and individuals who identify with genders outside the gender binary, are also prevalent in the United States. Transgender individuals suffer from prejudices in the workforce and employment, higher levels of domestic violence, higher rates of hate crimes, especially murder, and higher levels of police brutality when compared to the cisgender population.\n\nThe Center for American Women and Politics reports that, as of 2013, 18.3% of congressional seats are held by women and 23% of statewide elective offices are held by women; while the percentage of Congress made up of women has steadily increased, statewide elective positions held by women have decreased from their peak of 27.6% in 2001. Women also make up, as of 2013, 24.2% of state legislators in the United States. Among the one hundred largest cities in the United States, ten had female mayors as of 2013.\n\nIn 1977, political science professor Susan Welch presented three possible explanations for this underrepresentation of women in politics: one, that women are socialized to avoid careers in politics; two, that women's responsibilities in the home keep them away out of both the work force and the political arena; and three, women are more often than men members of other demographic groups with low political participation rates. In 2001, M. Margaret Conway, political science professor at the University of Florida, also presented three possible explanations for the continuation of this disparity: one, similar to Welch's first explanation, sociological and societal norm discourages women from running; two, women less frequently acquire the necessary skills to hold a political leadership position from nonpolitical activities; and three, gatekeeping in party politics prevents women from running.\n\nThe United States is falling behind other Western countries in the percentage of women engaged in the workforce. Researchers from the Institute for Women's Policy Research at the University of California Hastings College of Law argue that this growing gap is due to a lack of governmental, business and societal support for working women. They ranked the United States last out of 20 industrialized countries in an index that measured such programs as family leave, alternative work arrangements, part-time employment, and other means to make workplaces more flexible and family-friendly. The United States is also the only industrialized nation that does not have a paid parental leave policy mandated by law, and is one of only four countries worldwide that does not; in addition, fully paid maternity leave is only offered by around 16 percent of employers in the United States.\n\nAccording to a study conducted by researchers at California State University, Northridge, when an individual with a PhD applies for a position at a university, that individual is significantly more likely to be offered a higher level of appointment, receive an offer of an academic position leading to tenure, and be offered a full professorship if they are a man when compared to a woman of comparable qualifications. However, these findings have been disputed, with one study finding universities pushed to hire more women, resulting in females being given a 2:1 advantage over males in science, technology engineering and mathematics fields. Another study found that women were significantly less likely to receive a job offer or an interview for a high-paying waiter position when compared to equally qualified men; this study also found that such hiring discrimination may be caused in part by customer's discrimination of preference for male wait staff. Similarly, research conducted at the University of California, Davis focusing on academic dermatology revealed a significant downward trend in the number of women receiving funding from the National Institutes of Health, which the authors concluded was due to a lack of support for women scientists at their home institutions.\n\nResearch from Lawrence University has found that men were more likely to be hired in traditionally masculine jobs, such as sales management, and women were more likely to be hired in traditionally feminine jobs, such as receptionist or secretary. However, individuals of either gender with masculine personality traits were advantaged when applying for either masculine or feminine jobs, indicating a possibly valuing of stereotypically male traits above stereotypically female traits.\n\nOccupational gender segregation takes the form of both horizontal segregation (the unequal gender distribution across occupations) and vertical segregation (the overrepresentation of men in higher positions in both traditionally male and traditionally female fields).\n\nAccording to William A. Darity, Jr. and Patrick L. Mason, there is a strong horizontal occupational division in the United States on the basis of gender; in 1990, the index of occupational dissimilarity was 53%, meaning 53% of women or 47% of men would have to move to different career field in order for all occupations to have equal gender composition. While women have begun to more frequently enter traditionally male-dominated professions, there have been much fewer men entering female-dominated professions; professor of sociology Paula England cites this horizontal segregation of careers as a contributing factor to the gender pay gap.\n\nWith regards to the gender pay gap in the United States, International Labour Organization notes as of 2010 women in the United States earned about 81% of what their male counterparts did. While the gender pay gap has been narrowing since the passage of the Equal Pay Act, the convergence began to slow down in the 1990s. In addition, overall wage inequality has been increasing since the 1980s as middle-wage jobs are decreasing replaced by larger percentages of both high-paying and low-paying jobs, creating a highly polarized environment.\n\nHowever numerous studies dispute the claim that discrimination accounts for the majority of the pay gap. When adjusting for industries commonly chosen, hours worked, and benefits received, the pay gap returns to 5%, which has been attributed to less aggressive pay negotiating in women. One study actually found that before 30, females made more than males, and hypothesized that choosing a family over a career resulted in the drop of the female wage advantage during the thirties.\n\nAccording to researchers at the University of California, Berkeley and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the primary cause of this gap is discrimination manifested in the tendency of women to be hired more frequently in lower paying occupations, in addition to the fact that male dominated occupations are higher paying than female dominated occupations, and that, even within comparable occupations, women are often paid less than men.\n\nIn medicine, female physicians are compensated less, despite the fast that evidence suggest that the quality of care female physicians provide may be higher than that of male physicians.\n\nIn addition to the gender pay gap, a \"family gap\" also exists, wherein women with children receive about 10-15% less pay when compared to women without children. According to Jane Waldfogel, professor of social work and public affairs at Columbia University, this family gap is a contributing factor to the United States' large gender pay gap. She also noted that men did not seem to be affected by this gap, as married men (who are more likely to have children) generally earned higher than unmarried men.\n\nResearchers from the University of Michigan have found that from 1970 to 1985, the percentage of men and women who supported traditional social roles for wives and believed that maternal employment damages mother-child relationships or children's development decreased. Similarly, Jane Wilke from the University of Connecticut found that men's support the idea that men should be the sole source of income in a married couple decreased from 32 to 21 percent from 1972 to 1989; in practice only 15 percent of households were supported by a male spouse's income alone at the time of the study.\n\nHowever, more recent research in 2011 has found that attitudes towards gender and societal roles have changed very little since the mid-1990s, with attitudes hovering at about sixty to seventy percent egalitarian. This study theorized that a \"egalitarian but traditional\" gender frame emerged in popular culture during this period, which supports each gender assuming their traditional roles without appearing sexist or discriminatory, and is responsible for this backlash.\n\nStephanie Coontz, a professor of family history at Evergreen State College, noted that one of the factors contributing to the gender inequality in the United States is that most men still expect women and men to assume traditional gender roles in the households and for women to carry out a larger share of the housework. This has been confirmed by a number of other studies; for example Makiko Fuwa from University of California, Irvine noted that while there has been movement towards greater equality, \"in 1995 American women still spent nearly twice as much time on housework than men\" and there is also a segregation of household tasks. This gendered division of household labor creates what is known as the second shift or double burden, where working women in a heterosexual couple with a working partner spend significally more time on childcare and household chores.\n\nResearchers from the University of Maryland have found that while men have steadily begun to perform more household labor since 1965, most of the essential and traditionally feminine tasks are still carried out by women; men generally carry out more nonessential or infrequent tasks, such as taking out the trash or mowing the lawn. While both genders tend to have roughly equal amounts of leisure time, men have more uninterrupted leisure time when compared to women. Working mothers also tend to get less sleep when compared to their working husbands.\n\nLiteracy and enrollment in primary and secondary education are at parity in the United States, and women are overrepresented in tertiary education. There is, however, a notably gender segregation in degree choice, correlated with lower incomes for graduates with \"feminine\" degrees, such as education or nursing, and higher incomes for those with \"masculine\" degrees, such as engineering. In addition, men have a statistically significant advantage over women when applying for highly selective universities. Females started outnumbering males in higher education in 1992.\n\nResearch conducted at Lycoming College has found the enjoyment of sexist humor to be strongly correlated with sexual aggression towards women among male college students. In addition, studies have shown that exposure to sexist humor, particularly humor related to sexual assault, can increase male aggression and their tendency to discriminate against women. One study also asserted that the attitudes behind such humor creates an environment where such discriminatory and possibly violent behavior is acceptable. Men's tendency to self-report the likelihood that they would commit sexually violent acts has also been found to increase after exposure to sexist humor, as reported by researchers from the University of Kent.\n\nBenevolent sexism, sometimes referred to as chivalry, which holds women as something to be protected, also has psychological effects. Women who hold these views are more likely to have less ambitious career goals and men who hold these views tend to have a polarized and stereotyped view of women, made up of both very favorable and very unfavorable traits. In such cases, the stereotyped view of women is \"favorable in content and yet prejudicial in [its] consequences,\" and attempts to provide justification for discriminatory behaviors presented as helpful or paternal.\n\nFor the past fifty years, there has been a gap in the educational achievement of males and females in the United States, but which gender has been disadvantaged has fluctuated over the years. In the 1970s and 1980s, data showed girls trailing behind boys in a variety of academic performance measures, specifically in test scores in math and science.\n\nData in the last twenty years shows the general trend of girls outperforming boys in academic achievement in terms of class grades across all subjects and college graduation rates, but boys scoring higher on standardized tests and being better represented in the higher-paying and more prestigious STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and math).\n\nAccording to recent data (from 2007), 55 percent of college students are females and 45 percent are males. From 1995 until 2005, the number of males enrolled in college increased by 18 percent, while the number of female students rose by 27 percent. Males are enrolling in college in greater numbers than ever before, yet fewer than two-thirds of them are graduating with a bachelor's degree. The numbers of both men and women receiving a bachelor's degree have increased significantly, but the increasing rate of female college graduates exceeds the increasing rate for males.\n\nA higher proportion of men (29.4%) hold bachelor's degrees than women (26.1%). In 2007, the United States Census Bureau estimated that 18,423,000 males ages over the age of 18 held a bachelor's degree, while 20,501,000 females over the age 18 held one. In addition, fewer males held master's degrees: 6,472,000 males compared to 7,283,000 females. However, more men held professional and doctoral degrees than women. 2,033,000 males held professional degrees compared to 1,079,000, and 1,678,000 males had received a doctoral degree compared to 817,000 females.\n\nIn the United States, most male US citizens and residents must register with the Selective Service System within 30 days of their 18th birthday. Those who fail to register may be punished by up to five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000, although no non-registrants have been prosecuted since January 1986. They may also be ineligible for federal student financial aid, federal job training and federal employment, and for certain states, state employment and even driver's licenses .\n\nIn the United States, the male-to-female teenage suicide death ratio is estimated at 3:1. Typically males are three to five times more likely to commit suicide than females.\n\nAt least 70% to 85% of all homeless are men.\n\nMen are over-represented in dangerous jobs. The industries with the highest death rates are mining, agriculture, forestry, fishing, and construction, all of which employ more men than women. In one U.S. study, 93% of deaths on the job involved men, with a death rate approximately 11 times higher than women.\n\nMen receive 65% longer prison sentences for the same crime as a women.\n\nBenatar identified multiple areas in which men are currently disadvantaged today. He identified military conscription and cited the fact that men are more likely to be the victim of spousal abuse, while being taken less seriously. Benatar also identified the inequality experienced by men in the justice system, such as the increased prison sentences received by males, as well as the increased likelihood of a male being arrested if the accuser is female. Furthermore, the disparity in legal custody cases and alimony payment was cited, with females more frequently getting custody of children.\n\nOne of the largest factors that causes and perpetuates transgender inequality is a lack of understanding and awareness among cisgender people. A 2002 survey found that, of the American respondents polled, only 70% had heard of the term transgender, while 67% agreed that it is possible for a person to be born as one gender, but inside feel like another gender. In addition, the survey found that 61% of Americans believe that the country needs anti-discrimination laws to protect transgender individuals, 57% incorrectly believed that it was not legal to fire someone on the basis of their gender identity if they are trans, 53% believed being transgender was acceptable while 37% did not, 77% believed that transgender students should be allowed to attend public school, and 8% said they would refuse to work with a transgender co worker. A 2012 study found that the heterosexual cisgender individuals who believe there are natural binary genders and there are natural differences between men and women are more likely to have negative attitudes toward transgender individuals.\n\nEvents in the LGBT+ community such as Transgender Awareness Week and the International Transgender Day of Visibility are focused on educating and informing the public about transgender individuals and the challenges they face.\n\nAccording to the Transformative Justice Law Project of Illinois, transgender people are \"over-represented in the criminal legal system due to institutionalized oppression and increased poverty and criminalization.\"\n\nMany transgender individuals have difficulties correcting their name and gender on their ID and personal documents. According to the National Center for Transgender Equality, \"only one-fifth (21%) of transgender people who have transitioned in the National Transgender Discrimination Survey have been able to update all of their IDs and records with their new gender and one-third (33%) had updated none of their IDs or records. At the time of the survey, only 59% had been able to update their gender on their driver’s license or state ID; 49% had updated their Social Security Record; 26% their passport; and just 24% their birth certificate.\" In addition, those transgender people who are successful in correcting their ID and records often must undergo heavy invasions of privacy, including presenting proof of gender reassignment surgery, and those who cannot correct their identification documents often face higher levels of discrimination, since it effectively \"outs\" them as transgender.\n\nSome state appellate courts- including Kansas, Ohio, Texas, Florida, and Illinois- have upheld that the gender an individual is assigned at birth is their legal gender for life, even if the individual has undergone gender reassignment surgery or similar treatments, and therefore refuse to acknowledge the gender that transgender people identify as.\n\nThere have been several legal cases in which transgender parents have lost custody and other parental rights on the basis of their gender. There have also been cases of the validity and legality of married heterosexual couples in which one partner is transgender being contested and, in some cases, the marriage has been voided.\n\nA 2007 study reported that between fifteen and fifty-seven percent of transgender individuals report some kind of employment discrimination; of these thirteen to fifty-six percent reported being fired due to their gender identity, thirteen to forty-seven percent reported that they were denied employment due to their gender identity, twenty-two to thirty-one percent reported harassment due to their gender identity, and nineteen percent reported being denied promotion due to their gender identity. Another study found that transgender respondents reported twice the national rate of unemployment, while transgender people of color reported four times the national rate of unemployment. This study also found that 90% of respondents reported some kind of workplace harassment, mistreatment or discrimination.\n\nAccording to the American Psychology Association, around 64% of transgender people have annual incomes of less than $25,000. Another study found that transgender individuals are nearly four times more likely to make less than $10,000 annually when compared to the general population; on the other end of the spectrum, only 14% of transgender respondents reported making more than $100,000 annually compared to 25% of the general population. In addition, transgender women reported their wages decreasing by nearly one-third following their gender transitions but transgender men reported their wages increasing slightly (about 1.5%), according to one study.\n\nSince many public spaces, including schools, are highly gendered with features such as gendered bathrooms and locker rooms, transgender people often face violence in these gendered areas. Transgender people are often asked to present their ID or other invasive question when using a public restroom designated for the gender they identify as and can often face discrimination and violence if their ID has not been correct or if they do not \"pass\" as the gender they identify as.\n\nOne study found that 71% of transgender respondents made efforts to hide their gender or gender transition to avoid discrimination, while 57% reported delaying their gender transition to avoid discrimination.\n\nTransgender individuals also face discrimination within the LGBT+ community, especially from cisgender gay men and lesbians. As a result, they often do not receive the same social support from the community that other queer individuals do.\n\nOne study found that 78% of transgender individuals interviewed reported harassment in primary or secondary school, 35% reported physical assault, 12% reported sexual violence, and 6% reported being expelled. According to the study, the effect of this harassment was so severe that 15% of the respondents were forced to leave school at either the primary, secondary, or tertiary level.\n\nTransgender individuals also face barriers when applying to higher education, as was the case with a transgender woman rejected from the all-girls Smith College because she was not legally recognized as female in her home state.\n\nTransgender individuals, especially transgender women, are at a high risk of suffering from domestic abuse due to invisibility, lack of access to support facilities such as shelters, and a lack of legal and social protection. Transgender individuals are also more likely to be sexually and physically assaulted, both by strangers and acquaintances, than cisgender individuals are. In addition, there are several factors that limit transgender people's access to health care facilities and proper medical care, including transphobia and the tendency of gender-segregated homeless and domestic violence shelters to refuse service to transgender and gender nonconforming individuals. One study reported that 19% of transgender individuals interviewed reported being refused medical care due to their gender identity, while 28% reported being harassed in a medical setting and 2% reported violence toward them in a medical setting due to their gender identity. In the same study, 50% percent of transgender respondents reported the need to educate their medical providers about the health care needs of transgender individuals.\n\nTransgender individuals also reported four times the national average of HIV infections when compared to cisgender individuals in one study conducted by the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.\n\nThe NCAVP's 2012 Report on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and HIV-affected Hate Violence reported that over fifty percent of anti-LGBTQ homicide victims in 2012 were transgender women, a considerable increase from the percentage of transgender women victims in 2011 at 40%. In addition, the report also found that, compared to cisgender people, transgender people were more than three times more likely to experience police violence.\n\nIn terms of mental health, transgender individuals have much higher rates of suicide attempts than cisgender individuals and it has been reported that between nineteen and twenty-five of the trans population have attempted suicide.\n\nIn 1920, the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which insured women's suffrage (although some individual states allowed women the right to vote as early as 1869), was ratified. In addition, the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor was created to monitor working conditions for women in the workforce.\n\nIn 1961, the President's Commission on the Status of Women was started, initially chaired by Eleanor Roosevelt. This commission found that women were suffering considerable workplace discrimination. In 1963, the Equal Pay Act was passed, which made it illegal for a woman to be paid less than a man working in the same position. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 also made discriminatory hiring on the basis of gender illegal. The affirmative action policy of 1965 was expanded in 1967 to cover women as well as racial minorities. In 1973, women's right to safe and legal abortion was established by the Supreme Court's ruling in \"Roe v. Wade\". In 1968, sex-segregated job advertisements were declared illegal by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, this decision was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1973; this allowed women to apply for higher-paying jobs formally restricted only to male applicants. In 1972, Title IX of the Education Amendments, which reads \"No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving federal financial assistance,\" was passed.\n\nIn 1986, in the decision of Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, sexual harassment was established as illegal and discriminatory. The Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 guarantees that new parents can retain their jobs for 12 weeks after the birth of the child; this unpaid leave is the only form of paternal leave protected by law in the United States. In 1994, the Violence Against Women Act provided legal protection, as well as funds and services, for rape victims and victims of domestic violence. United States v. Virginia established in 1996 that gender-based admission practices violated the Fourteenth Amendment, and establishing a separate all-female school would not suffice as an alternative to integrating an all-male school. Most recently, in 2009 the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 provides employees (usually female) who suffer from pay discrimination to file a complaint with the government.\n\nThe Equal Rights Amendment, which reads, \"Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex\", was first introduced to Congress in 1923 and successfully passed both houses of Congress in 1972. However, it failed to be ratified by an adequate number of states and died in 1982. The United States is one of only a few countries which have not ratified the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (US has only signed the treaty).\n\nThe World Economic Forum's Gender Gap Index for 2012 ranked United States 22nd best out of 135 countries for gender equality. The primary indicators for inequality were related to political empowerment, where the US was ranked 55th (32nd for women in ministerial position and 78th for women in parliament). USA was ranked 33rd for health and survival, 8th for economic participation and opportunity, and tied for 1st (no inequality) in education. Since the Gender Gap report was first published in 2006, the US position remains relatively stable in that index. However, the United States' score decreased between 2011 and 2012.\n\nUnited Nation's Gender Inequality Index (part of the Human Development Report) for 2011 had US ranked 47th out of 173 countries. In addition, the OECD's Better Life Index discusses a number of differences, but does not stress any in particular when it comes to gender.\n\n\nSocial Politics, Oxford University Press, Marie Evertsson, 2009, pp. 210–241\n\n"}
{"id": "15448263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15448263", "title": "Hebraic Political Studies", "text": "Hebraic Political Studies\n\nHebraic Political Studies was a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Shalem Press, funded by the Shalem Center, and devoted to recovering the Hebraic political tradition and evaluating its place in the history of political thought.\n\nAccording to Carlin Romano, the Journal emerged form a 2004 conference on Jewish Sources in Early Modern Political Thought held at Jerusalem's Mishkenot Sha'ananim convention center.\n\nIn 2004, the Shalem Center announced a call for papers for a conference on political Hebraism and, according to Gordon Schochet (Rutgers University), \"the enthusiastic response convinced us there was a need for a journal.\" The journal was established in 2005 with Schochet and Arthur Eyffinger (Huygens Institute for the History of the Netherlands) as editors-in-chief. The journal was devoted to the recovery and exploration of the Hebraic political tradition, that is, the uses of biblical, Talmudic, rabbinic, and other Jewish and Judaic sources by Christian and Muslim as well as Jewish authors in the history of political thought.\n\nThe journal's last issue appeared Fall 2009, and its website states that it is no longer accepting submissions.\n\nAllan Arkush (Binghamton University) compared the journal with the other Shalem Center publication \"Azure\", which, Arkush argued, was seen by many as a \"neoconservative\" political magazine. Despite different editorship and stated goals, the two magazines shared many characteristics, with both sharing characteristics of the reputation of each. In the end, Arkush argues,\n\n...Hebraic Political Studies may turn out to be a journal of more interest to students of forgotten corners of modern intellectual history than to people who aspire to revitalize liberalism in Israel in particular or in the Western world in general.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "35008428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35008428", "title": "Imre Varga", "text": "Imre Varga\n\nImre Varga (born 1 November 1923, Siófok) is a Hungarian sculptor, painter, designer and graphic artist.\nHe is regarded as one of Hungary's most important living artists, \nand he has been called one of the \"most skilled sculptors in Hungary.\"\n\nEven as a schoolboy, Varga's drawings were exhibited in small exhibitions. He studied aeronautics at the Military Academy in Budapest. During World War II, he served as an officer in the Hungarian Air Force before being taken as a prisoner of war by the United States, returning to Hungary in 1945 when he turned to the visual arts. From 1950 to 1956, Varga studied at the Hungarian Academy of Fine Arts in Budapest under Sándor Mikus and Pál Pátzay, graduating with a degree. Since then, Varga has worked in many different artistic fields. He has made small statues and coins, as well as monumental works for public spaces.\nOne of his public statues is the Holocaust Memorial, located behind the Dohany Street Synagogue in Budapest's Jewish Quarter District VII. The memorial is constructed in the shape of a weeping willow tree, with names of Hungarian Holocaust victims on the leaves.\n\nAnother well-visited work by Varga is his group of worried-looking women with umbrellas permanently located in a square in Óbuda, Budapest near the Imre Varga Collection of his work.\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\nHe attended the first \"Hungarian Fine Arts Exhibition\", where his work \"Iron Workers\" was exhibited. His first high-profile work, \"Prometheus\", was created in 1965. In the 1970s, Varga broke away from the conventional monumentalism usually seen in Communist countries. He created a wide array of works - ranging from statues of Vladimir Lenin to the Holocaust, to statues of Francis II Rákóczi, Raoul Wallenberg, Sir Winston Churchill and Béla Bartók to Konrad Adenauer and Charles de Gaulle.\n\nHis statue of Raoul Wallenberg is a private gift of an American Ambassador to Hungary, Nicolas M. Salgo. Salgo, who left Hungary before the Nazi occupation, commissioned Imre Varga to create the monument of Wallenberg, which has been placed on Szilágyi Erzsébet Alley in Budapest on April 9, 1987, at a site that is possibly connected with the mystery of Wallenberg's disappearance in February 1945. Imre Varga carved the monument of Wallenberg into the slabs of granite, what was a gift of members of the Wallenberg family, who invited Imre Varga to Sweden to select it. The monument shows Wallenberg, his left hand in the pocket of his raincoat and his right hand pointing forward, striding toward a gap in a forbidding wall formed by the two slabs. A Latin inscription says that when the weather is fine, you have many friends; when skies are cloudy, you will be alone.\n\nAbout 300 works of Imre Varga are now exhibited in nine countries.\n"}
{"id": "10999109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10999109", "title": "Jean Franco", "text": "Jean Franco\n\nJean Franco (born 31 March 1924) is a British-born academic and literary critic known for her pioneering work on Latin American literature. Educated at Manchester and London, she has taught at London, Essex (where she was the university's first professor of Latin American literature), and Stanford, and is currently professor emerita at Columbia University.\n\nJean Franco's research is wide-ranging and voluminous. She was among the very first English-speaking Latin Americanists to write seriously about Latin American literature. She has particularly focused on women and women's writing and is a pioneer of Latin American cultural studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6843770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6843770", "title": "Lib.ru", "text": "Lib.ru\n\nLib.ru, also known as Maksim Moshkow's Library (, started to operate in November 1994) is the oldest electronic library in the Russian Internet segment.\n\nFounded and supported by Maksim Moshkow, it receives contributions mainly from users who send texts they scanned and processed (OCR, proofreading). This method of acquisition provides the library a broad and efficient augmentability, though sometimes it adversely affects the quality (errors, omissions).\n\nThe structure of the library includes a section where one can publish his own literary texts (\"Samizdat\" journal), a project for music publishing (\"Music hosting\"), a travel notes project (\"Foreign countries\") and some other sections (See \"Maksim Moshkow's projects collection\" section).\n\n\"Maksim Moshkow's Library\" received several Ru-net Awards, including the National Internet Award (2003).\n\nThe headline on the site Lib.ru says \"With support from the Federal Press and Mass Communications Agency\". According to Moshkow, his project received $35,000 from that organization in September 2005, which indicates some level of government support for the online publishing of in-copyright works.\n\nMaksim Moshkow's project could be compared to some Wikimedia Foundation projects and is sometimes referred to as Russia's Project Gutenberg.\n\nOn April 1, 2004 the \"KM Online\" media company, which is known for forming its own library by copying texts from the other electronic libraries, issued a lawsuit against Maksim Moshkow's Library in the name of Eduard Gevorkian, Marina Alekseyeva (pen-name \"Alexandra Marinina\"), Vasili Golovachov and Elena Katasonova. It was later discovered that only Gevorkian had had real claims against Moshkow. Moshkow's lawyer was Andrey Mironov from the Artemi Lebedev Studio, while KM's interests were presented by the so-called \"National association on Digital Technologies (NOCIT)\".\n\nThis case became a precedent in the Russian legal practice which illustrated pressure on an electronic library caused by a copyright violation lawsuit.\n\nOn March 30, 2005, Moscow's Ostankino city district court imposed a penalty on Maksim Moshkow to pay Eduard Gevorkian a total of 3000 Russian rubles (around 120 USD) as compensation for moral damage. The ruling did not mention any compensation for copyright violation.\n\nOn May 30, 2006, another court order ruled that Moshkow had no right to publish online the works of William Shakespeare, Harrison and Zinoviev and ordered him to pay 10,000 rubles in each case. Moshkow's lawyer said he would appeal the decision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "845622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=845622", "title": "Magdalena Abakanowicz", "text": "Magdalena Abakanowicz\n\nMagdalena Abakanowicz (20 June 1930 – 20 April 2017) was a Polish sculptor and fiber artist. She is notable for her use of textiles as a sculptural medium. She is widely regarded as one of Poland's most internationally acclaimed artists. She was a professor at the Academy of Fine Arts in Poznań, Poland from 1965 to 1990 and a visiting professor at University of California, Los Angeles in 1984.\n\nMagdalena Abakanowicz was born to a noble landowner family in Falenty. Her mother descended from old Polish nobility. Her father came from a Polonized Tatar family, which traced its origins to Abaqa Khan (a 13th-century Mongol chieftain). Her father's family fled Russia to the newly independent Poland after the October Revolution.\n\nThe Russian invasion of 1920 forced her family to flee their home, after which they moved to the city of Gdańsk. When she was nine Nazi Germany invaded and occupied Poland. Her family endured the war years living on the outskirts of Warsaw. After the war and resulting Soviet occupation, the family moved to the small city of Tczew near Gdańsk, in northern Poland, where they hoped to start a new life.\n\nUnder Soviet control, the Polish government officially adopted Socialist realism as the only acceptable art form which should be pursued by artists. Originally conceived by Joseph Stalin in the 1930s, Socialist realism, in nature, had to be 'national in form' and 'socialist in content'. Other art forms being practiced at the time in the West, such as Modernism, were officially outlawed and heavily censored in all Eastern bloc nations, including Poland. Lack of official sanction did nothing to reduce her enthusiasm or alter the revolutionary course of her work.\n\nAbakanowicz completed part of her high school education in Tczew from 1945 to 1947, after which she went to Gdynia for two additional years of art school at the Liceum Sztuk Plastycznych in that city. After her graduation from the Liceum in 1949, Abakanowicz attended the Academy of Fine Arts in Sopot (now in Gdańsk). In 1950, Abakanowicz moved back to Warsaw to begin her studies at the Academy of Fine Arts there, the leading art school in Poland. To get into the Academy she had to pretend to be the daughter of a clerk, because her aristocratic background would have prevented her acceptance.\n\nHer years at the university, 1950–1954, coincided with some of the harshest assaults made on art by the Soviet leadership. By utilizing the doctrine of 'Socialist realism', all art forms in Soviet occupied nations were forced to adhere to strict guidelines and limitations that subordinated the arts to the needs and demands of the State. Realist artistic depictions based on the national 19th-century academic tradition were the only form of artistic expression taught in Poland at the time. The Warsaw Academy of Fine Arts, being the most important artistic institution in Poland, came under special scrutiny from the Ministry of Art and Culture, which administered all major decisions in the field at the time.\n\nAbakanowicz found the climate at the Academy to be highly “rigid” and overly “conservative”. She recalled:\nWhile studying at the University she was required to take several textile design classes, learning the art of weaving, screen printing, and fiber design from instructors such as Anna Sledziewska, Eleonora Plutymska, and Maria Urbanowicz. These instructors and skills would greatly influence Abakanowicz's work, as well as that of other prominent Polish artists of the time.\n\nFollowing her education at the Academy, Abakanowicz began to produce her first artistic works. Due to the fact that she spent most of her academic life moving from place to place, much of her earlier artwork was lost or damaged, with only a few, delicate plant drawings surviving. Between 1956 and 1959, she produced some of her earliest known works; a series of large gouaches and watercolors on paper and sewn-together linen sheets. These works, described as being 'biomorphic” in composition, depicted imaginary plants, birds, exotic fish, and seashells, among other biomorphic shapes and forms. Joanna Inglot wrote in \"The Figurative Sculpture of Magdalena Abakanowicz\" about these early works: “[they] pointed to Abakanowicz’s early fascination with the natural world and its processes of germination, growth, blooming, and sprouting. They seem to capture the very energy of life, a quality that would become a constant feature of her art.” Abakanowicz said:\n\nIt was also during this time that Poland began to lift some of the heavy political pressures imposed by the Soviet Union, mainly due to the death of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin in 1953. In 1956, under the new party leadership of Władysław Gomułka, Poland experienced a dramatic social and cultural shift. The shift resulted in the liberalization of the forms and content of art, with the Stalinistic methods of art form being openly criticized by the Gomulka government.\n\nA major freedom granted to Polish artists was the permission to travel to several Western cities, such as Paris, Venice, Munich, and New York City, to experience artistic developments outside the Eastern bloc. This liberalization of the arts in Poland and injection of other art forms into the Polish art world greatly influenced Abakanowicz's early works, as she began to consider much of her early work as being “ too flamboyant and lacking in structure.\" Constructivism began to influence her work in the late 1950s as she adopted more a more geometric and structured approach. Never fully accepting Constructivism, she searched for her own “artistic language and for a way to make her art more tactile, intuitive, and personal.” As a result, she soon adopted weaving as another avenue of artistic exploration.\n\nIn her first one-person exhibit at the Kordegarda Gallery in Warsaw in the spring of 1960, she included a series of four weavings along with a collection of gouaches and watercolors. Though her first exhibit received minimal critical notice, it helped advance her position within the Polish textile and fiber design movement and resulted in her inclusion into the first Biennale Internationale de le Tapisserie in Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1962. The event opened the way to her international success.\n\nThe 1960s saw some of the most important works produced during Abakanowicz's career. In 1967, she began producing gigantic three-dimensional fiber works called \"Abakans\". These works would secure her place in the art world as one of the great artists of the time and influence all of the subsequent work she created .\n\nEach \"Abakan\" is made out of woven material using Abakanowicz's own technique. The material used for many of these pieces was found, often collecting sisal ropes from harbors, untwining them into threads and dying them. She also used \"rope, hemp, flax, wool and horsehair.\" Hung from the ceiling, \"Abakans\" reach sizes as large as thirteen feet with sometimes only a few inch clearance from the ground.\n\nDuring the 1970s, and into the 1980s, Abakanowicz changed medium and scale; she began a series of figurative and non-figurative sculptures made out of pieces of coarse sackcloth which she sewed and pieced together and bonded with synthetic resins. These works became more representational than previous sculptures but still retain a degree of abstraction and ambiguity. In 1974-1975 she produced sculptures called \"Alterations\", which were twelve hollowed-out headless human figures sitting in a row. From 1973–1975 she produced a series of enormous, solid forms reminiscent of human heads without faces called \"Heads\". From 1976-1980 she produced a piece call \"Backs\", which was a series of eighty slightly differing sculptures of the human trunk.\n\nIn 1986-87 she created a series of fifty standing figures called \"The Crowd I\". She also began to once again work around organic structures, such as her \"Embryology\" series, which consisted of several dozen soft egg-like lumps varying in size. These were dispersed round an exhibition room at the Vienna Biennial in 1980.\n\nThese humanoid works of the 1970s and 1980s were centered around human culture and nature as a whole and its condition and position in modern society. The multiplicity of the human forms represents confusion and anonymity, analyzing an individual's presence in a mass of humanity. These works have close connections to Abakanowicz's life living in a Communist regime which repressed individual creativity and intellect in favor of the collective interest. These works also contrast with her earlier \"Abakan\" series, which were individually powerful pieces, whereas the figurative sculptures lost their individuality in favor of multiplicity.\n\nIn the late 1980s to 1990s Abakanowicz began to use metals, such as bronze, for her sculptures, as well as wood, stone, and clay. She continued the subject matter of the human condition but changed her medium; her burlap and resin figurative sculptures were now being made out of bronze, such as \"Bronze Crowd\" (1990–91) and \"Puellae\" (1992). She stated in a speech given at the Academy of Fine Arts in Łódź:\n\nOne of Abakanowicz's most unusual works is titled \"War Games\", which is a cycle of monumental structures made up of huge trunks of old trees, with their branches and bark removed. Partly bandaged with rags and hugged by steel hoops, these sculptures are placed on lattice metal stands. Like the name of the cycle implies, these sculptures have a very militaristic feel to them, as they have been compared to artillery vehicles. During the 1990s Abakanowicz was also commissioned to design a model of an ecologically-oriented city. She also choreographed dance.\n\nAbakanowicz's final round of work includes a project called \"Agora\", which is a permanent installation located at the southern end of Chicago's Grant Park, next to the Roosevelt Road Metra station. It consists of 106 cast iron figures, each about nine feet tall. All the figures are similar in shape, but different in details. The artist and her three assistants created models for each figure by hand, and the casting took place from 2004 to 2006. The surface of each figure resembles a tree bark or wrinkled skin. The work creates a feeling of crowdedness, hence the name \"agora\". Furthermore, all the bodies end at the torso, giving them an eerie, anonymous look.\n\n\n\n“My work comes from the experience of crowds, injustice, and aggression… I feel an affinity for art when it was made a form of existence, like when shamans worked in the territory between men and unknown powers… I try to bewitch the crowd.”\n\n“I feel overawed by quantity where counting no longer makes sense. By unrepeatability within such a quantity. By creatures of nature gathered in herds, droves, species, in which each individual, while subservient to the mass, retains some distinguishing features. A crowd of people, birds, insects, or leaves is a mysterious assemblage of variants of certain prototype. A riddle of nature's abhorrence of exact repetition or inability to produce it. Just as the human hand cannot repeat its own gesture, I invoke this disturbing law, switching my own immobile herds into that rhythm.”\n\n\"Art will remain the most astonishing activity of mankind born out of struggle between wisdom and madness, between dream and reality in our mind.\"\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\nMuseums\n\nWorks\n\nArticles\n\nSchools\n"}
{"id": "1146151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146151", "title": "Melek Taus", "text": "Melek Taus\n\nMelek Taus (Ezdiki: Tawûsê Melek), also spelled Malik Tous, translated in English as Peacock Angel, is one of the central figures of Yazidi religion. In Yazidi creation stories, God created the world and entrusted it to the care of seven Holy Beings, often known as Angels or \"heft sirr\" ('the Seven Mysteries'), preeminent of which is \"Tawûsê Melek\", the Peacock Angel.\n\nLike many aspects of the secretive Yazidi religion, Tawûsê Melek is subject to varied and ambiguous interpretations. The \"Yazidi Book of Revelation\" (\"Ketêbâ Jelwa\"), a text generally believed to have been written by non-Yazidis (along with the \"Yazidi Black Book\") in the early twentieth-century but based on Yazidi oral tradition, even though a nineteenth-century translation of the text exists, is purported to contain the words of Tawûsê Melek; it states that he allocates responsibilities, blessings and misfortunes upon humanity as he sees fit and that it is not for the race of Adam to question his choices.\n\nSince the late 16th century, some Muslims have accused Yazidis of devil worship due to the similarity between the Quranic story of Iblis and the account of Tawûsê Melek's refusal to bow to Adam. Whereas Muslims revile Iblis for refusing to submit to God and bow to Adam, believing that his defiance caused him to fall from God's grace, Yazidis revere Tawûsê Melek for his independence and believe that God's command to Tawûsê Melek was a test to see if he understood his own majestic and sublime nature. Accusations of devil worship fueled centuries of violent persecution, which have led Yazidi communities to concentrate in remote mountainous regions of northwestern Iraq. The Yazidi taboo against the Arabic word Shaitan (الشیطان) and on words containing the consonants š (sh) and t/ṭ have been used to suggest a connection between this Tawûsê Melek and Iblis, although no evidence exists to suggest Yazidis worship Tawûsê Melek as the same figure. The \"Yazidi Black Book\" directly identifies Melek Taus with Azazil or Azrail. However Yazidis identify Melek Taus with Jibrail (Gabriel). In one Arabic manuscript, the name \"Jabrail\" is used in secondary reading, instead of \"Melek Taus\".\n\nThe Yazidi consider \"Tawûsê Melek\" an emanation of God and a good, benevolent angel and leader of the archangels, who was entrusted to take care of the world after he passed a test and created the cosmos from the Cosmic egg. Yazidis believe Tawûsê Melek is not a source of evil or wickedness. They consider him to be the leader of the archangels, not a fallen nor a disgraced angel, but an emanation of God himself.\nThe Yazidi believe that the founder or reformer of their religion, Sheikh Adi Ibn Musafir, was an incarnation of Tawûsê Melek.\n\n\"Tawûsê Melek\" is sometimes transliterated \"Malak Ta'us\", \"Malak Tawus\", \"Malak Tawwus\", or \"Malik Taws\". \"Melek\" was borrowed from the Arabic term meaning “king” or “angel”. \"Tawûs\" is uncontroversially translated as “peacock” (in art and sculpture, Tawûsê Melek is depicted as peacock). However, peacocks are not native to the lands where Tawûsê Melek is worshipped. Among early Christians, the peacock represented immortality because of a folk belief that its flesh does not decay after death, and this symbolism has passed into Yazidi beliefs. Consequently, peacock imagery adorns Yazidi shrines, gateways, graves, and houses of worship.\n\nThe \"Kitêba Cilwe\" (Book of Illumination), which claims to be the words of Tawûsê Melek himself, states that he allocates responsibilities, blessings, and misfortunes as he sees fit, and that it is not for the race of Adam to question him. Sheikh Adi ibn Musafir believed that the spirit of Tawûsê Melek is the same as his own, perhaps as a reincarnation. He is believed to have said:\n\nYazidi accounts of creation differ from that of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. They believe that God first created Tawûsê Melek from his own illumination (\"Ronahî\") and the other six archangels were created later. God ordered Tawûsê Melek not to bow to other beings. Then God created the other archangels and ordered them to bring him dust (\"Ax\") from the Earth (\"Erd\") and build the body of Adam. Then God gave life to Adam from his own breath and instructed all archangels to bow to Adam. The archangels obeyed except for Tawûsê Melek. In answer to God, Tawûsê Melek replied, Then God praised him and made him the leader of all angels and his deputy on the Earth.\n\nHence, the Yazidis believe that Tawûsê Melek is the representative of God on the face of the Earth, and comes down to the Earth on the first Wednesday of Nisan (April). Yazidis hold that God created Tawûsê Melek on this day, and celebrate it as New Year’s Day. Yazidis argue that the order to bow to Adam was only a test for Tawûsê Melek, since if God commands anything then it must happen. (\"Bibe, dibe\"). In other words: God could have made him submit to Adam, but gave Tawûsê Melek the choice as a test. They believe that their respect and praise for Tawûsê Melek is a way to acknowledge his majestic and sublime nature. This idea is called \"Zanista Ciwaniyê\" (Knowledge of the Sublime). Sheikh Adî observed the story of Tawûsê Melek and believed in him.\n\n"}
{"id": "17172887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17172887", "title": "Mitch Joel", "text": "Mitch Joel\n\nMitch Joel (b. May 1971) is a journalist and publicist. He is president of Twist Image, a digital marketing agency and president and a founding partner of Distort Entertainment.\n\nJoel grew up in Montreal, with three brothers. His family was an early adopter of computers, something that fascinated him. He graduated from the pre-university music program at Vanier College (he played bass), then he quit his philosophy studies at Concordia University after less than a semester, to start a publishing career. He worked in Montreal as a freelance music journalist and as publisher/editor of two music magazines, \"Arena Rock\" and \"Enrage\". His first interview, in 1989, was of Tommy Lee.\n\nJoel worked in 1999 and 2000 at Mamma.com, a meta search engine started in 1996, where he held the title of Director, Sponsorship and Advertising. In January 2001 he became Director of Marketing at Airborne Entertainment, a mobile content provider headquartered in Montreal. He credits an Unleash the Power Within conference in 2002 for the change in direction that lead to his success; he has been a speaker at a number of the organization's conferences since then.\n\nIn 2002, Joel joined Twist Image, a digital marketing company that was then two years old. He is now president of the company, one of four equal partners. He began blogging in September 2003, posting at Six Pixels of Separation – The Twist Image Blog. In May, 2006, he launched a weekly podcast. Both the blog and podcast focus on the intersection of digital marketing and personal branding.\n\nIn July 2006, Joel was named one of the twenty most influential authorities in the world on the topic of blog marketing by the UK-based research firm Onalytica. In January 2007, \"Marketing Magazine\" called Joel \"Canada's Rock Star of Digital Marketing.\" In May 2009 he was named to the Top 40 under 40 in Canada.\n\nBy mid-2009, Twist Image had a second office, in Toronto, and employed 65 people. By October 2009 it had 90 employees. By the end of 2009, its clients included Home Depot, Microsoft, Scotiabank, TD Canada Trust, Fujifilm, and Dairy Farmers of Canada.\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, Joel was the host of Foreword Thinking: The Business And Motivational Book Review Podcast. In 2008 and 2009, he wrote a business column for the \"Montreal Gazette\" and the \"Vancouver Sun\". In 2009, he authored a book by the same name as the blog and the podcast: \"Six Pixels of Separation\". In 2009 and 2010 he had a column in \"enRoute\", the in-flight magazine of Air Canada.\n\nIn May 2011, the Canadian Marketing Association elected Joel as the chair of its board of directors for 2011 and 2012. In 2013, Joel published \"Ctrl Alt Delete: Reboot Your Business. Reboot Your Life. Your Future Depends on It\". The book covers five technology and marketing trends that Joel thinks business leaders must embrace.\n\nJoel is a partner, with Greg Below, in the record label Distort Entertainment. The label, located in Toronto, Ontario, specializes in heavy music, hardcore, and post-hardcore. Artists and groups currently or previously represented by the label include Alexisonfire, Cancer Bats, Johnny Truant, Step Kings, and The Bronx.\n\nJoel is married; he and his wife have three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "298372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298372", "title": "Obfuscated Perl Contest", "text": "Obfuscated Perl Contest\n\nThe Obfuscated Perl Contest was a competition for programmers of Perl which was held annually between 1996 and 2000. Entrants to the competition aimed to write \"devious, inhuman, disgusting, amusing, amazing, and bizarre Perl code\". It was run by \"The Perl Journal\" and took its name from the International Obfuscated C Code Contest.\n\nThe entries were judged on aesthetics, output and incomprehensibility. One entrant per year received the \"Best of Show\" award.\nEntrants were advised to try and demonstrate a range of Perl knowledge, while being humorous, surprising and deceitful. Code which purposely crashed the judges' machines was discouraged.\n\nThe competition was typically divided into four categories, which, in the last contest, included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1674181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674181", "title": "Phonological hierarchy", "text": "Phonological hierarchy\n\nThe phonological hierarchy describes a series of increasingly smaller regions of a phonological utterance, each nested within the next highest region. Different research traditions make use of slightly different hierarchies. For instance, there is one hierarchy which is primarily used in theoretical phonology, while a similar hierarchy is used in discourse analysis. Both are described in the sections below.\n\nListed in order from highest to lowest are the categories of the hierarchy that is most commonly used in theoretical phonology. There is some disagreement on the arrangement and inclusion of units, especially those that reside higher in the hierarchy. For example, the clitic group is not considered to be a separate level in Selkirk's version of the hierarchy, while the minor phrase or accentual phrase are not considered to be separate from the phonological phrase in Hayes' and Nespor & Vogel's hierarchies.\n\n\nThe hierarchy from the mora upwards is technically known as the prosodic hierarchy.\n\nThe phonological hierarchy as it is defined in the discourse analytical tradition is listed below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31614402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31614402", "title": "Polynomial texture mapping", "text": "Polynomial texture mapping\n\nPolynomial texture mapping, also known as Reflectance Transformation Imaging (RTI), is a technique of imaging and interactively displaying objects under varying lighting conditions to reveal surface phenomena.\n\nThe method was originally developed by Tom Malzbender of HP Labs in order to generate enhanced 3D computer graphics and it has since been adopted for cultural heritage applications.\n\nA series of images is captured in a darkened room with the camera in a fixed position and the object lit from different angles. These images are then processed and combined to enable a virtual light source to be controlled by the user inspecting the object. The virtual light source may be manipulated to simulate light from different angles and of different intensity or wavelengths to illuminate the surface of artefacts and reveal details. Open source tools for processing the captured images and publishing the resulting relightable images on the web are freely available.\n\nPolynomial texture mapping may be used for detailed recording and documentation, 3D modelling, edge detection, and to aid the study of inscriptions and other artefacts. It has been applied to hundreds of the Vindolanda tablets by the Centre for the Study of Ancient Documents at the University of Oxford in conjunction with the British Museum. It has also been deployed, by Ben Altshuler of the Institute for Digital Archaeology, to scan the Philae obelisk at Kingston Lacy, and the Parian Chronicle at the Ashmolean Museum; in both cases scans revealed significant, previously illegible text.\n\nA 'dome' supporting twenty-four lights has been used to image paintings in the National Gallery and produce polynomial texture maps, providing information on condition phenomena for conservation purposes. Studies of the technique at the National Gallery and Tate concluded that it is an effective tool for documenting changes in the condition of paintings, more easily repeatable than raking light photography, and therefore could be used to assess paintings during structural treatment and before and after loan.\n\nThe technique is now also finding uses in the field of forensic science, for example in imaging footprints, tyre marks and indented writing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3719355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719355", "title": "Psychological nativism", "text": "Psychological nativism\n\nIn the field of psychology, nativism is the view that certain skills or abilities are \"native\" or hard-wired into the brain at birth. This is in contrast to empiricism, the \"blank slate\" or tabula rasa view, which states that the brain has inborn capabilities for learning from the environment but does not contain content such as innate beliefs. This factor contributes to the ongoing nature versus nurture dispute, one borne from the current difficulty of reverse engineering the subconscious operations of the brain, especially the human brain.\n\nSome nativists believe that specific beliefs or preferences are \"hard wired\". For example, one might argue that some moral intuitions are innate or that color preferences are innate. A less established argument is that nature supplies the human mind with specialized learning devices. This latter view differs from empiricism only to the extent that the algorithms that translate experience into information may be more complex and specialized in nativist theories than in empiricist theories. However, empiricists largely remain open to the nature of learning algorithms and are by no means restricted to the historical associationist mechanisms of behaviorism.\n\nNativism has a history in philosophy, particularly as a reaction to the straightforwardly empiricist views of John Locke and David Hume. Hume had given persuasive logical arguments that people cannot infer causality from perceptual input. The most one could hope to infer is that two events happen in succession or simultaneously. One response to this argument involves positing that concepts not supplied by experience, such as causality, must exist prior to any experience and hence must be innate.\n\nThe philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) argued in his \"Critique of Pure Reason\" that the human mind knows objects in innate, \"a priori\" ways. Kant claimed that humans, from birth, must experience all objects as being successive (time) and juxtaposed (space). His list of inborn categories describes predicates that the mind can attribute to any object in general. Arthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860) agreed with Kant, but reduced the number of innate categories to one—causality—which presupposes the others.\n\nModern nativism is most associated with the work of Jerry Fodor (1935–2017), Noam Chomsky (b. 1928), and Steven Pinker (b. 1954), who argue that humans from birth have certain cognitive modules (specialised genetically inherited psychological abilities) that allow them to learn and acquire certain skills, such as language. For example, children demonstrate a facility for acquiring spoken language but require intensive training to learn to read and write. This poverty of the stimulus observation became a principal component of Chomsky's argument for a \"language organ\"—a genetically inherited neurological module that confers a somewhat universal understanding of syntax that all neurologically healthy humans are born with, which is fine-tuned by an individual's experience with their native language. In \"The Blank Slate\" (2002), Pinker similarly cites the linguistic capabilities of children, relative to the amount of direct instruction they receive, as evidence that humans have an inborn facility for speech acquisition (but not for literacy acquisition).\n\nA number of other theorists have disagreed with these claims. Instead, they have outlined alternative theories of how modularization might emerge over the course of development, as a result of a system gradually refining and fine-tuning its responses to environmental stimuli.\n\nResearch on the human capacity for language provides strong support for a nativist view. Firstly, language is a species characteristic of humans: No human society has ever been discovered that does not employ a language, and all medically able children acquire at least one language in early childhood. The typical five-year-old can already use most, if not all, of the grammatical structures that are found in the language of the surrounding community. Yet, the knowledge of grammar is tacit: Neither the five-year-old nor the adults in the community can easily articulate the principles of the grammar they are following. Experimental evidence shows that infants come equipped with presuppositions that allow them to acquire the rules of their language.\n\nThe term universal grammar (or UG) is used for the innate biological properties of the human brain, whatever exactly they turn out to be, that are responsible for children's rapid and overwhelmingly successful acquisition of a native language, without any obvious effort, during the first few years of life. The person most strongly associated with the scientific investigation of UG is Noam Chomsky, although the idea of Universal Grammar has clear historical antecedents at least as far back as the 1600s, in the form of the Port-Royal Grammar.\n\nIn contemporary generative grammar (from the late 1970s to the present), the principles and parameters framework has been the dominant formulation of UG. In this framework, a \"principle\" is a grammatical requirement that applies to all languages, and a \"parameter\" is a tightly constrained point of variation across languages. In the early 1980s parameters were often conceptualized as switches in a switchbox (an idea attributed to James Higginbotham). In more recent research on syntax, parameters are often conceptualized as options for the formal features of functional heads.\n\nThe fact that UG plays an essential role in normal child language acquisition is evident from species differences: for example, children and household pets may be exposed to quite similar linguistic input, but by the age of three years, the child's ability to comprehend multi-word utterances vastly outstrips that of the dog or cat. This evidence is all the more impressive when one considers that most children do not receive reliable correction for grammatical errors. Indeed, even children who for medical reasons cannot produce speech, and therefore have no possibility of producing an error in the first place, have been found to master both the lexicon and the grammar of their community's language perfectly. The fact that children succeed at language acquisition even when their linguistic input is severely impoverished, as it is when no corrective feedback is available, is known as the \"argument from the poverty of the stimulus\", and is another important source of empirical support for a central role of UG in child language acquisition.\n\nNativism is sometimes perceived as being too vague to be falsifiable, as there is no fixed definition of when an ability is supposed to be judged \"innate\". (As Jeffrey Elman and colleagues pointed out in Rethinking Innateness, it is unclear exactly \"how\" the supposedly innate information might actually be coded for in the genes.) Further, modern nativist theory makes little in the way of specific testable (and falsifiable) predictions, and has been compared by some empiricists to a pseudoscience or nefarious brand of \"psychological creationism\". As influential psychologist Henry L. Roediger III remarked that \"Chomsky was and is a rationalist; he had no uses for experimental analyses or data of any sort that pertained to language, and even experimental psycholinguistics was and is of little interest to him\".\n\nSome researchers argue that the premises of linguistic nativism were motivated by outdated considerations and need reconsidering. For example, nativism was at least partially motivated by the perception that statistical inferences made from experience were insufficient to account for the complex languages humans develop. In part, this was a reaction to the failure of behaviorism and behaviorist models of the era to easily account for how something as complex and sophisticated as a full-blown language could ever be learned. Indeed, several nativist arguments were inspired by Chomsky's assertion that children could not learn complicated grammar based on the linguistic input they typically receive, and must therefore have an innate language-learning module, or language acquisition device. However, Chomsky's poverty of the stimulus argument is controversial within linguistics.\n\nMany empiricists are now also trying to apply modern learning models and techniques to the question of language acquisition, with marked success. Similarity-based generalization marks another avenue of recent research, which suggests that children may be able to rapidly learn how to use new words by generalizing about the usage of similar words that they already know (see also the distributional hypothesis).\n\nPaul Griffiths, in \"What is Innateness?\", argues that innateness is too confusing a concept to be fruitfully employed as it confuses \"empirically dissociated\" concepts. In a previous paper, Griffiths argued that innateness specifically confuses these three distinct biological concepts: developmental fixity, species nature, and intended outcome. Developmental fixity refers to how insensitive a trait is to environmental input, species nature reflects what it is to be an organism of a certain kind, and intended outcome is how an organism is meant to develop.\n"}
{"id": "7184342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7184342", "title": "Reader's Digest Select Editions", "text": "Reader's Digest Select Editions\n\nThe Reader's Digest Select Editions are a series of hardcover fiction anthology books, published bi-monthly and available by subscription, from \"Reader's Digest\". Each volume consists of four or five current bestselling novels selected by \"Digest\" editors and abridged (or \"condensed\") to shorter form to accommodate the anthology format.\n\nThis series is the renamed version of the long-running anthology series \"Reader's Digest Condensed Books\".\n\nVolume 229 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 230 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 231 - #3\n\nVolume 232 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 233 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 234 - #6\nVolume 235 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 236 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 237 - #3\n\nVolume 238 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 239 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 240 - #6\n\nVolume 241 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 242 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 243 - #3\n\nVolume 244 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 245 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 246 - #6\n\nVolume 247 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 248 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 249 - #3\n\nVolume 250 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 251 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 252 - #6\n\nVolume 253 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 254 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 255 - #3\n\nVolume 256 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 257 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 258 - #6\n\nVolume 259 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 260 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 261 - #3\n\nVolume 262 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 263 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 264 - #6\n\nVolume 265 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 266 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 267 - #3\n\nVolume 268 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 269 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 270 - #6\n\nVolume 271 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 272 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 273 - #3\n\nVolume 274 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 275 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 276 - #6\n\nVolume 277 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 278 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 279 - #3\n\nVolume 280 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 281 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 282 - #6\n\nVolume 283 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 284 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 285 - #3\n\nVolume 286 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 287 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 288 - #6\nVolume 289 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 290 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 291 - #3\n\nVolume 292 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 293 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 294 - #6\n\nVolume 295 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 296 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 297 - #3\n\nVolume 298 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 299 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 300 - #6\nVolume 301 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 302 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 303 - #3\n\nVolume 304 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 305 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 306 - #6\nVolume 307 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 308 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 309 - #3\n\nVolume 310 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 311 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 312 - #6\nVolume 313 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 314 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 315 - #3\n\nVolume 316 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 317 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 318 - #6\n\nVolume 319 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 320 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 321 - #3\n\nVolume 322 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 323 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 324 - #6\n\nVolume 325 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 326 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 327 - #3\n\nVolume 328 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 329 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 330 - #6\n\nVolume 331 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 332 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 333 - #3\n\nVolume 334 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 335 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 336 - #6\nVolume 337 - #1\n<br>\n\nVolume 338 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 339 - #3\n\nVolume 340 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 341 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 342 - #6\nVolume 343 - #1\n<br>\nVolume 344 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 345 - #3\n\nVolume 346 - #4\n<br>\n\nVolume 347 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 348 - #6\nVolume 349 - #1\n<br>\n\nVolume 350 - #2\n<br>\nVolume 351 - #3\n\nVolume 352 - #4\n<br>\nVolume 353 - #5\n<br>\nVolume 354 - #6\n"}
{"id": "57991231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57991231", "title": "Rebecca Roache", "text": "Rebecca Roache\n\nRebecca Roache is a British philosopher and Senior Lecturer at Royal Holloway, University of London, known for her work on the philosophy of language, practical ethics and philosophy of mind. She is particularly noted for her work on swearing, which has featured in various media, such as the BBC.\n\nRoache received her BA in philosophy at the University of Leeds in 1996, and her MA in philosophy at the same university in 1997, where she worked among others closely with Robin Le Poidevin. She then took an MPhil (1999) and a DPhil (2002) at the University of Cambridge, St. John’s College, with Jane Heal and D.H. Mellor as dissertation advisers. After completing her DPhil, she worked in various projects at the University of Oxford from 2006 onwards. She is currently Senior Lecturer at Royal Holloway, University of London. From 2013 to 2018, she was Associate Editor for the Journal of Medical Ethics. \n\nRoache’s theory of swearing examines why swearwords (including non-slurs and non-religious swearwords) are so powerful. She proposes that swearwords have a unique linguistic role, coupled to a unique emotional role. According to Roache, swearing obtains its power because of speaker inferences: when someone swears, she knows her audience will find it offensive, and the swearer knows the audience knows she knows that the audience will find it offensive, and so on, a process termed \"offence escalation\". Speakers and listeners who belong to the same cultural and linguistic community will likely find similar things offensive, which explains why some expressions (disrespecting social hierarchy, sexual taboos, mention of bodily fluids etc) tend to cross-culturally recur as swearwords .\nRoache is also noted for a blogpost where she said she unfriended people who voted for the Conservatives at the 2015 General Election. She argued that “Openly supporting a political party “that – in the name of austerity – withdraws support from the poor, the sick, the foreign, and the unemployed while rewarding those in society who are least in need of reward” was “as objectionable as expressing racist, sexist, or homophobic views.”. \n\nIn addition to her work in the philosophy of language, Roache has published on a variety of topics in practical ethics and metaphysics, such as which biomedical modifications to humans could be used to fight climate change. \n\nShe has an active twitter feed. On 25 July 2018, she was listed among the top 100 philosophers on Twitter. \n\nA selection: \n\n"}
{"id": "14650035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14650035", "title": "Right of foreigners to vote in the United States", "text": "Right of foreigners to vote in the United States\n\nThe right of foreigners to vote in the United States has historically been a contentious issue. A foreigner, in this context, is an alien or a person who is not a citizen of the United States.\n\nSince enactment of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, federal law has prohibited noncitizens from voting in federal elections, punishing them by fines, imprisonment, inadmissibility, and deportation. Exempt from punishment is any noncitizen who \"reasonably believed at the time of voting (...) that he or she was a citizen of the United States,\" had a parent who is or was a citizen, and began permanently living in the United States before turning 16 years old. The federal law does not prohibit noncitizens from voting in state or local elections, but no state has allowed noncitizens to vote in state elections since Arkansas became the last state to outlaw noncitizen voting in 1926. However, in some states, local governments have the power to allow noncitizens to vote in local elections. Presently, eleven local governments, ten of them in Maryland, allow noncitizens to vote in their local elections. San Francisco allows noncitizens parents to vote in School Board elections.\n\nHistorically, over 40 states or territories, including colonies before the Declaration of Independence, have at some time given at least some aliens voting rights in some or all elections. For example, in 1875, the Supreme Court in \"Minor v. Happersett\" noted that \"citizenship has not in all cases been made a condition precedent to the enjoyment of the right of suffrage. Thus, in Missouri, persons of foreign birth, who have declared their intention to become citizens of the United States, may under certain circumstances vote.\"\n\nBy 1900, nearly half of the states and territories had some experience with voting by aliens, and for some the experience lasted more than half a century. At the turn of the twentieth century, anti-immigration feeling ran high, and Alabama stopped allowing aliens to vote by way of a constitutional change in 1901; Colorado followed suit in 1902, Wisconsin in 1908, and Oregon in 1914. Just as the nationalism unleashed by the War of 1812 helped to reverse the alien suffrage policies inherited from the late eighteenth century, World War I caused a sweeping retreat from the progressive alien suffrage policies of the late nineteenth century. In 1918, Kansas, Nebraska, and South Dakota all changed their constitutions to purge alien suffrage, and Texas ended the practice of noncitizen voting in primary elections by statute. Indiana and Texas joined the trend in 1921, followed by Mississippi in 1924 and, finally, Arkansas in 1926. In 1931, political scientist Leon Aylsworth noted that \"[f]or the first time in over a hundred years, a national election was held in 1928 in which no alien in any state had the right to cast a vote for a candidate for any office – national, state, or local.\"\n\n1776–1819\n\n1776–1831\n\n\n1789–1799\n\n1776–1851\n\n\n1792–1814\n\n1776–1820\n\n1776–1804\n\n1704–1856\n\n1787 Northwest Ordinance (valid until 1803) \"Provided, That no person be eligible or qualified to act as a representative unless he shall have been a citizen of one of the United States three years, and be a resident in the district, or unless he shall have resided in the district three years; and, in either case, shall likewise hold in his own right, in fee simple, two hundred acres of land within the same; Provided, also, That a freehold in of land in the district, having been a citizen of one of the states, and being resident in the district, or the like freehold and two years residence in the district, shall be necessary to qualify a man as an elector of a representative.\"\n\n\n\n1762–1842\n\n1790–?\n\n1796–1834\n\n\n\n\n\n1876–1902\n\n\n\n1863–1890\n\n\n\n1879–?\n\n\n\n\n1865–1921\n\n1864–1889\n\n1854–1918\n\n1848–1864\n\n1889-1889/1909\n\n1850–1907\n\n1848–1914\n\n1850–1918\n\n\n\nJamie Raskin, an American law professor and politician, has argued that the blanket exclusion of noncitizens from the ballot is neither constitutionally required nor historically normal. A San Francisco State University political science professor and rights activist, Ron Hayduk, wrote in 2006 a book entitled \"Democracy For All: Restoring Immigrant Voting Rights In The United States\", presenting additional elements of the historical and present reality of noncitizens voting rights in the United States.\n\nOn October 28, 2015, Governor Jerry Brown signed a bill into law that automatically registers all citizen resident holders of a driver's license as a registered voter for all California ballots, including federal elections. Opponents expressed concern this could offer suffrage rights to noncitizen residents, since a January 2015 legislation decreed the right of a driver's license to noncitizens. However, as the \"Sacramento Bee\" pointed out, \"people will need to attest they’re citizens before being able to register,\" \"undocumented immigrants applying for driver’s licenses, a right they gained this year, will not be offered the option.\" Citizenship status is verified at the DMV when applying for a license.\n\nWhile voting as a noncitizen in a federal election carries legal penalties, California Assembly Bill No. 1461 removes legal ramifications from the State of California for individuals that accurately represent themselves and the DMV incorrectly registers the individual to vote, which means a failure on the DMV clerk or system to properly execute the process of verifying the voter registration information for the individual:\n\"Existing law makes it a crime for a person to willfully cause, procure, or allow himself or herself or any other person to be registered as a voter, knowing that he or she or that other person is not entitled to registration. Existing law also makes it a crime to fraudulently vote or attempt to vote.\n\nThis bill would provide that if a person who is ineligible to vote becomes registered to vote by operation of the California New Motor Voter Program in the absence of a violation by that person of the crime described above, that person’s registration shall be presumed to have been effected with official authorization and not the fault of that person. The bill would also provide that if a person who is ineligible to vote becomes registered to vote by operation of this program, and that person votes or attempts to vote in an election held after the effective date of the person’s registration, that person shall be presumed to have acted with official authorization and is not guilty of fraudulently voting or attempting to vote, unless that person willfully votes or attempts to vote knowing that he or she is not entitled to vote.\"\nThis specific wording is added to deal with California Probate Code Section 18100, as is noted later in the bill, describing good faith transactions with a trustee. \n\nIn November 2016 voters in San Francisco approved a proposal to allow all parents of children in the San Francisco school system to vote in school board elections regardless of their immigration or citizenship status. Unless extended by the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, the proposition is only effective for the school board elections of 2018, 2020, and 2022. Voters rejected similar proposals in 2004 and 2010.\n\nCritics, such as Florida's Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam, have used this proposition to generalize that noncitizens can vote in San Francisco. Former Congressmember Doug Ose has submitted a proposed ballot measure to state officials that would ban voting by those in the U.S. illegally.\n\nSan Francisco’s effort to get noncitizen parents to the ballot box in mid-term elections in 2018 resulted in only 49 people signing up to vote. A trivial number compared to the $310,000 the city spent setting up the new registration system and encouraging people to sign up. \n\nIn 2017 Joe Matthews, \"Connecting California\" columnist and California editor at Zócalo Public Square, an Ideas Exchange that is a project of New America and Arizona State University, called for universal suffrage.\n\nAn \"act concerning voting by resident alien property owners\", \"to allow alien property owners to vote at town meetings and referenda\", was submitted to the Connecticut General Assembly in 2003.\n\nAn \"Equitable Voting Rights Amendment Act\" was proposed, and rejected in commission, in 2004.\n\nMaryland ended noncitizen voting rights for state and federal elections in 1851, but its constitution recognizes the autonomy of local municipalities and localities on the subject. As of February, 2008, one city, three towns, and three villages in Montgomery County have introduced bills to restore the right to vote to foreigners within their jurisdictions. Barnesville (since 1918), Martin's Additions and Somerset (since 1976), Takoma Park (since 1991) and Garrett Park (since 1999), Chevy Chase Section 3 and Chevy Chase Section 5.\n\nLD 1195, \"An Act To Allow Noncitizen Residents To Vote in Municipal Elections\", was submitted to the 124th Maine Legislature in 2009 and was voted down.\n\nThree municipal assemblies in the state of Massachusetts have introduced bills to confer foreigners the right to vote. The municipal assembly in the city of Newton introduced a bill to this effect in 2004, while Amherst and Cambridge did so in 1998.\nHowever, as of February 2008, the proposals had not been approved by the state's assembly.\n\nA \"bill for an act relating to elections; proposing an amendment to the Minnesota Constitution, article VII, section 1; authorizing local units of government to permit permanent resident noncitizens to vote in local elections\" was submitted on February 7, 2005 at the Minnesota House of Representatives.\n\nBills were submitted at the New York City Council and at the New York State Assembly in 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2010.\n\nIn New York City, noncitizens who have children in public schools could vote in school board elections until 2002. Since then there are no longer elected school boards.\n\nA bill was submitted by Rep. Roberto Alonso in 1995 \"proposing a constitutional amendment providing by local option for a lawfully admitted resident alien to vote in an election held by a political subdivision.\"\n\nMunicipalities in Maryland where noncitizens can currently vote in local elections:\n\n"}
{"id": "1630600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1630600", "title": "Ruin value", "text": "Ruin value\n\nRuin value () is the concept that a building be designed such that if it eventually collapsed, it would leave behind aesthetically pleasing ruins that would last far longer without any maintenance at all. The idea was pioneered by German architect Albert Speer while planning for the 1936 Summer Olympics and published as \"The Theory of Ruin Value\" (\"Die Ruinenwerttheorie\"), although he was not its original inventor. The intention did not stretch only to the eventual collapse of the buildings, but rather assumed such buildings were inherently better designed and more imposing during their period of use.\n\nThe idea was supported by Adolf Hitler, who planned for such ruins to be a symbol of the greatness of the Third Reich, just as Ancient Greek and Roman ruins were symbolic of those civilisations.\n\nIn his memoirs Albert Speer claimed to have invented the idea, which he referred to as the theory of Ruin Value (Gr. \"Ruinenwerttheorie\"). It was supposedly an extension of Gottfried Semper's views about using \"natural\" materials and the avoidance of iron girders. In reality it was a much older concept, even becoming a Europe-wide Romantic fascination at one point. Predecessors include a \"new ruined castle\" built by the Landgraf of Hesse-Kassel in the 18th century, and the designs for the Bank of England built in the 19th century produced by Sir John Soane. When he presented the bank's governors with three oil sketches of the planned building one of them depicted it when it would be new, another when it would be weathered, and a third what its ruins would look like a thousand years onward.\n\nSpeer's memoirs reveal Hitler's thoughts about Nazi state architecture in relation to Roman imperial architecture:\n\nHitler accordingly approved Speer's recommendation that, in order to provide a \"bridge to tradition\" to future generations, modern \"anonymous\" materials such as steel girders and ferroconcrete should be avoided in the construction of monumental party buildings, since such materials would not produce aesthetically acceptable ruins like those wherever possible. Thus, the most politically significant buildings of the Reich were intended, to some extent, even after falling into ruins after thousands of years, to resemble their Roman models.\n\nSpeer expressed his views on the matter in the Four Year Plan of 1937 in his contribution \"Stone Not Iron\" in which he published a photograph of the Parthenon with the subscript: \"The stone buildings of antiquity demonstrate in their condition today the permanence of natural building materials.\" Later, after saying modern buildings rarely last more than fifty years, he continues: \"The ages-old stone buildings of the Egyptians and the Romans still stand today as powerful architectural proofs of the past of great nations, buildings which are often ruins only because man's lust for destruction has made them such.\" Hitler approved Speer's \"Law of Ruin Value\" (Gr. \"Ruinengesetz\") after Speer had shown him a sketch of the Haupttribüne as an ivy-covered ruin. The drawing pleased Hitler but scandalised his entourage.\n\nA more modern example of intended ruins were the planned warning signs for the proposed nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain (see Human Interference Task Force), which were intended to endure for 10,000 years, and yet still convey an enduring (if negative) impression on future generations: \"Keep out. Don't dig here.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28561", "title": "Separation of powers", "text": "Separation of powers\n\nThe separation of powers is a model for the governance of a state. Under this model, a state's government is divided into branches, each with separate and independent powers and areas of responsibility so that the powers of one branch are not in conflict with the powers associated with the other branches. The typical division is into three branches: a legislature, an executive, and a judiciary, which is the trias politica model. It can be contrasted with the fusion of powers in some parliamentary systems where the executive and legislative branches overlap.\n\nSeparation of powers, therefore, refers to the division of responsibilities into distinct branches to limit any one branch from exercising the core functions of another. The intent of separation of powers is to prevent the concentration of unchecked power by providing for \"checks\" and \"balances\" to avoid autocracy, over-reaching by one branch over another, and the attending efficiency of governing by one actor without need for negotiation and compromise with any other.\n\nThe separation of powers model is often imprecisely and metonymically used interchangeably with the \"trias politica\" principle. While the trias politica is a common type of model, there are governments which utilize bipartite, rather than tripartite, systems as mentioned later in the article.\n\nAristotle first mentioned the idea of a \"mixed government\" or hybrid government in his work \"Politics\" where he drew upon many of the constitutional forms in the city-states of Ancient Greece. In the Roman Republic, the Roman Senate, Consuls and the Assemblies showed an example of a mixed government according to Polybius (\"Histories\", Book 6, 11–13).\n\nJohn Calvin (1509–1564) favoured a system of government that divided political power between democracy and aristocracy (mixed government). Calvin appreciated the advantages of democracy, stating: \"It is an invaluable gift if God allows a people to elect its own government and magistrates.\" In order to reduce the danger of misuse of political power, Calvin suggested setting up several political institutions which should complement and control each other in a system of checks and balances.\n\nIn this way, Calvin and his followers resisted political absolutism and furthered the growth of democracy. Calvin aimed to protect the rights and the well-being of ordinary people. In 1620, a group of English separatist Congregationalists and Anglicans (later known as the Pilgrim Fathers) founded Plymouth Colony in North America. Enjoying self-rule, they established a bipartite democratic system of government. The \"freemen\" elected the General Court, which functioned as legislature and judiciary and which in turn elected a governor, who together with his seven \"assistants\" served in the functional role of providing executive power. Massachusetts Bay Colony (founded 1628), Rhode Island (1636), Connecticut (1636), New Jersey, and Pennsylvania had similar constitutions – they all separated political powers. (Except for Plymouth Colony and Massachusetts Bay Colony, these English outposts added religious freedom to their democratic systems, an important step towards the development of human rights.) Books like William Bradford's \"History of Plymoth Plantation\" (written between 1630 and 1651) were widely read in England. So the form of government in the colonies was well known in the mother country, including to the philosopher John Locke (1632–1704). He deduced from a study of the English constitutional system the advantages of dividing political power into the legislative (which should be distributed among several bodies, for example, the House of Lords and the House of Commons), on the one hand, and the executive and federative power, responsible for the protection of the country and prerogative of the monarch, on the other hand. (The Kingdom of England had no written constitution.)\n\nThe term \"tripartite system\" is commonly ascribed to French Enlightenment political philosopher Baron de Montesquieu, although he did not use such a term. In reality he referred to \"distribution\" of powers. In \"The Spirit of the Laws\" (1748), Montesquieu described the various forms of distribution of political power among a legislature, an executive, and a judiciary. Montesquieu's approach was to present and defend a form of government which was not excessively centralized in all its powers to a single monarch or similar ruler, form of government known then as \"aristocracy\". He based this model on the Constitution of the Roman Republic and the British constitutional system. Montesquieu took the view that the Roman Republic had powers separated so that no one could usurp complete power. In the British constitutional system, Montesquieu discerned a separation of powers among the monarch, Parliament, and the courts of law.\n\nMontesquieu argues that each Power should only exercise its own functions, it was quite explicit here:\n\nSeparation of powers requires a different source of legitimization, or a different act of legitimization from the same source, for each of the separate powers. If the legislative branch appoints the executive and judicial powers, as Montesquieu indicated, there will be no separation or division of its powers, since the power to appoint carries with it the power to revoke.\n\nMontesquieu did actually specify that the independence of the judiciary has to be real, and not merely apparent. The judiciary was generally seen as the most important of the three powers, independent and unchecked, while also likely to claim to be the least dangerous one.\n\nChecks and balances is the principle that each of the Branches has the power to limit or check the other two and this creates a balance between the three separate powers of the state, this principle induces that the ambitions of one branch prevent that one of the other branches become supreme, and thus be eternally confronting each other and in that process leaving the people free from government abuses. Checks and Balances are designed to maintain the system of separation of powers keeping each branch in its place. This is based on the idea that it is not enough to separate the powers and guarantee their independence but to give the various branches the constitutional means to defend their own legitimate powers from the encroachments of the other branches. They guarantee that the powers of the state have the same weight (co-equal), that is, to be balanced, so that they can limit each other, avoiding the abuse of state power. The origin of checks and balances, like separation of powers itself, is specifically credited to Montesquieu in the Enlightenment (in The Spirit of the Laws, 1748), under this influence was implemented in 1787 in the Constitution of the United States.\n\nThe following example of the separation of powers and their mutual checks and balances for the experience of the United States Constitution is presented as illustrative of the general principles applied in similar forms of government as well.\n\nConstitutions with a high degree of separation of powers are found worldwide. The UK system is distinguished by a particular entwining of powers. A number of Latin American countries have electoral branches of government.\n\nCountries with little separation of power include New Zealand and Canada. Canada makes limited use of separation of powers in practice, although in theory it distinguishes between branches of government.\n\nNew Zealand's constitution is based on the principle of separation of powers through a series of constitutional safeguards, many of which are tacit. The Executive's ability to carry out decisions often depends on the Legislature, which is elected under the mixed member proportional system. This means the government is rarely a single party but a coalition of parties. The Judiciary is also free of government interference. If a series of judicial decisions result in an interpretation of the law which the Executive considers does not reflect the intention of the policy, the Executive can initiate changes to the legislation in question through the Legislature. The Executive cannot direct or request a judicial officer to revise or reconsider a decision; decisions are final. Should there be a dispute between the Executive and Judiciary, the Executive has no authority to direct the Judiciary, or its individual members and vice versa.\n\nComplete separation of powers systems are almost always presidential, although theoretically this need not be the case. There are a few historical exceptions, such as the Directoire system of revolutionary France. Switzerland offers an example of non-Presidential separation of powers today: It is run by a seven-member executive branch, the Federal Council. However, some might argue that Switzerland does not have a strong separation of powers system, as the Federal Council is appointed by parliament (but not dependent on parliament) and although the judiciary has no power of review, the judiciary is still separate from the other branches.\n\n\n\nAustralia does not maintain a strict separation between the legislative and executive branches of government—indeed, government ministers are required to be members of parliament—but the federal judiciary strictly guards its independence from the other two branches. However, under influence from the American constitution, the Australian constitution does define the three branches of government separately, and this has been interpreted by the judiciary to induce an implicit separation of powers. State governments have a similar level of separation of power, but this is generally on the basis of convention, rather than constitution.\n\nThe Constitution of Austria was originally written by Hans Kelsen, the prominent constitutional scholar in Europe at that time. Kelsen was to serve as a part of the judicial court of review for Austria as part of its tripartite government.\n\nThe Constitution of the Czech Republic, adopted in 1992 immediately before the dissolution of Czechoslovakia, establishes the traditional tripartite division of powers and continues the tradition of its predecessor constitutions.\nThe Czechoslovak Constitution of 1920, which replaced the provisional constitution adopted by the newly independent state in 1918, was modeled after the constitutions of established democracies such as those of the United Kingdom, United States and France, and maintained this division, as have subsequent changes to the constitution that followed in 1948 with the Ninth-of-May Constitution, the 1960 Constitution of Czechoslovakia as well as the Constitutional Act on the Czechoslovak Federation of 1968.\n\n\nAccording to the Constitution of the Fifth Republic, the government of France is divided up into three branches:\n\nHong Kong is a Special Administrative Region established in 1997 pursuant to the Sino-British Joint Declaration, an international treaty made between Britain and China in 1984, registered with the United Nations. Currently, Hong Kong has three branches of government as codified in the \"Basic Law\", its constitution, which largely preserved political structures of the British colonial era, under the doctrine of one country, two systems:\n\nThe Chief Executive, elected by a 1200-member Election Committee which historically was dominated by pro-Beijing establishment members, is both head of the region and head of government, and chairs the Executive Council which is composed of \"unofficial\" members and government secretaries.\n\nThe legislature consists of 70 members, 35 of whom are elected by \"functional\" constituencies represented by members within various industries rather than the public at large. Separation of power between executive and legislature is, therefore, questionable.\n\nThe courts frequently exercise a power of judicial review of administrative actions and also decide matters of constitutionality of legislation, though this power is circumscribed under the power of the People's Republic of China's National People's Congress to make final determinations as to interpretation. Hence, the separation of powers is again structurally weak.\n\nIt is worth noting that the branches' separation of power may not be intended within the Hong Kong Basic Law as leaders of the PRC have publicly called for the three branches to cooperate and be led by the Chief Executive.\n\nFurther, Deng Xiaoping was quoted to have categorically dismissed Hong Kong having a \"Trias Politica\" system.\n\nIndia follows constitutional democracy which offers a clear separation of powers. The judiciary branch is fairly independent of the other two branches with the power to interpret the constitution. Parliament has the legislative powers. Executive powers are vested with the President who is advised by the Union Council of Ministers headed by the Prime Minister. The constitution of India vested the duty of protecting, preserving and defending the constitution with the President as common head of the executive, parliament, armed forces, etc. not only for the union government but also the various state governments in a federal structure. All three branches have \"checks and balances\" over each other to maintain the balance of power and not to exceed the constitutional limits.\n\n\nIn Italy the powers are separated, even though the Council of Ministers needs a vote of confidence from both chambers of Parliament, that represents a large number of members (almost 1,000).\n\nLike every parliamentary form of government, there is no real separation between Legislature and Executive, rather a \"continuum\" between them due to the confidence link. By the way, the balance is protected by Constitution also between these two branches. and, obviously, between them and the judiciary branch, which is really independent.\n\n\n\n\nA note on the status of separation of power, checks and balances, and balance of power in Norway today.\n\nIn the original constitution of 1814 the Montesquieu concept was enshrined, and the people at the time had the same skepticism about political parties as the American founding fathers and the revolutionaries in France. Nor did people really want to get rid of the king and the Council of State (privy council). King and council was a known concept that people had lived with for a long time and was for the most part comfortable with. The 1814 constitution came about as a reaction to external events, most notable the Treaty of Kiel see 1814 in Norway. There was no revolution against the current powers that had been be the case in the US and France.\n\nAs there was no election of the executive, the king reigned supremely independent in selecting the members of the Council of State, no formal political parties formed util the 1880s. A conflict between the executive and legislature started developing in the 1870s and climaxed with the legislature impeaching the entire Council of State in 1884. (See )\n\nWith this came a switch to a parliamentary system of government and while the full process takes decades, it has led to a system of parliamentary sovereignty where the Montesquieu idea of separation of powers is technically dead even though the three branches remain important institutions.\n\nThis \"does not\" mean that there are no checks and balances. With the introduction of a parliamentary system, political parties started to form quickly and this led to a call for electoral reform that saw the introduction of a Party-list proportional representation in 1918. The peculiarities of the Norwegian election system generate 6–8 parties and make it extremely difficult for a single party to gain an absolute majority. It has only occurred for a brief period in the aftermath of World War II where the Labour Party had an absolute majority.\n\nA multi-party system parliament that must either form a minority executive or a coalition executive function as a perfectly good system of checks and balances even if it was never a stated goal for the introduction of multiparty system. The multiparty system came about in response to a public outcry of having too few parties and a general feeling of a lack of representation. For this reason you'll find very little on the topic of separation of powers or checks and balances in the works of Norwegian political sciences today.\n\n\n\nThe development of the British constitution, which is not a codified document, is based on this fusion in the person of the Monarch, who has a formal role to play in the legislature (Parliament, which is where legal and political sovereignty lies, is the Crown-in-Parliament, and is summoned and dissolved by the Sovereign who must give his or her Royal Assent to all Bills so that they become Acts), the executive (the Sovereign appoints all ministers of His/Her Majesty's Government, who govern in the name of the Crown) and the judiciary (the Sovereign, as the fount of justice, appoints all senior judges, and all public prosecutions are brought in his or her name).\n\nAlthough the doctrine of separation of power plays a role in the United Kingdom's constitutional doctrine, the UK constitution is often described as having \"a weak separation of powers\" A. V. Dicey, despite its constitution being the one to which Montesquieu originally referred. For example, in the United Kingdom, the executive forms a subset of the legislature, as did—to a lesser extent—the judiciary until the establishment of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom. The Prime Minister, the Chief Executive, sits as a member of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, either as a peer in the House of Lords or as an elected member of the House of Commons (by convention, and as a result of the supremacy of the Lower House, the Prime Minister now sits in the House of Commons) and can effectively be removed from office by a simple majority vote. Furthermore, while the courts in the United Kingdom are amongst the most independent in the world, the Law Lords, who were the final arbiters of judicial disputes in the UK sat simultaneously in the House of Lords, the upper house of the legislature, although this arrangement ceased in 2009 when the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom came into existence. Furthermore, because of the existence of Parliamentary sovereignty, while the theory of separation of powers may be studied there, a system such as that of the UK is more accurately described as a \"fusion of powers\".\n\nUntil 2005, the Lord Chancellor fused the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary, as he was the ex officio Speaker of the House of Lords, a Government Minister who sat in Cabinet and was head of the Lord Chancellor's Department which administered the courts, the justice system and appointed judges, and was the head of the Judiciary in England and Wales and sat as a judge on the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords, the highest domestic court in the entire United Kingdom, and the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, the senior tribunal court for parts of the Commonwealth. The Lord Chancellor also had certain other judicial positions, including being a judge in the Court of Appeal and President of the Chancery Division. The Lord Chancellor combines other aspects of the constitution, including having certain ecclesiastical functions of the established state church, making certain church appointments, nominations and sitting as one of the thirty-three Church Commissioners. These functions remain intact and unaffected by the Constitutional Reform Act. In 2005, the Constitutional Reform Act separated the powers with Legislative functions going to an elected Lord Speaker and the Judicial functions going to the Lord Chief Justice. The Lord Chancellor's Department was replaced with a Ministry of Justice and the Lord Chancellor currently serves in the position of Secretary of State for Justice.\n\nThe judiciary has no power to strike down primary legislation, and can only rule on secondary legislation that it is invalid with regard to the primary legislation if necessary.\n\nUnder the concept of parliamentary sovereignty, Parliament can enact any primary legislation it chooses. However, the concept immediately becomes problematic when the question is asked; \"If parliament can do anything, can it bind its successors?\". It is generally held that parliament can do no such thing.\n\nEqually, while statute takes precedence over precedent-derived common law and the judiciary has no power to strike down primary legislation, there are certain cases where the supreme judicature has effected an injunction against the application of an act or reliance on its authority by the civil service. The seminal example of this is the Factortame case, where the House of Lords granted such an injunction preventing the operation of the Merchant Shipping Act 1988 until litigation in the European Court of Justice had been resolved.\n\nThe House of Lords ruling in Factortame (No. 1), approving the European Court of Justice formulation that \"a national court which, in a case before it concerning Community law, considers that the sole obstacle which precludes it from granting interim relief is a rule of national law, must disapply that rule\", has created an implicit tiering of legislative reviewability; the only way for parliament to prevent the supreme judicature from injunctively striking out a law on the basis of incompatibility with Community law is to pass an act specifically removing that power from the court, or by repealing the European Communities Act 1972.\n\nThe British legal systems are based on common law traditions, which require:\n\nSeparation of powers was first established in the United States Constitution, the founding fathers included features of many new concepts, including hard-learned historical lessons about the checks and balances of power. Similar concepts were also prominent in the state governments of the United States. As colonies of Great Britain, the founding fathers considered that the American states had suffered an abuse of the broad power of parliamentarism and monarchy. As a remedy, the US Constitution limits the powers of the federal government through various means, in particular, the three branches of the federal government are divided by exercising different functions, and the executive and legislative powers are separated in origin by separate elections and the judiciary is kept independent, each branch controls the actions of others and balances its powers in some way.\n\nIn the United States Constitution, Article 1 Section I gives Congress only those \"legislative powers herein granted\" and proceeds to list those permissible actions in Article I Section 8, while Section 9 lists actions that are prohibited for Congress. The vesting clause in Article II places no limits on the Executive branch, simply stating that, \"The Executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America.\" The Supreme Court holds \"The judicial Power\" according to Article III, and it established the implication of Judicial review in \"Marbury v. Madison\" under the Marshall court.\n\nThe presidential system adopted by the Constitution of the United States obeys the balance of powers sought, and not found, by the constitutional monarchy. The people appoint their representatives to meet periodically in a legislative body, and, since they do not have a king, the people themselves elect a preeminent citizen to perform, also periodically, the executive functions of the State. The direct election of the head of state or of the executive power is an inevitable consequence of the political freedom of the people, understood as the capacity to appoint and depose their leaders. Only this separate election of the person who has to fulfill the functions that the Constitution attributes to the president of the government, so different by its nature, and by its function, from the election of representatives of the electors, allows the executive power to be controlled by the legislative and submitted to the demands of political responsibility.\n\nJudicial independence is maintained by appointments for life that makes disappear very soon any sense of dependence on the Executive, with voluntary retirement and a high threshold of dismissal by the Legislature, in addition to a salary that can not be diminished during their service.\n\nThe federal government refers to the branches as \"branches of government\", while some systems use \"government\" to describe the executive. The Executive branch has attempted to claim power arguing for separation of powers to include being the Commander in Chief of a standing army since the American Civil War, executive orders, emergency powers and security classifications since World War II, national security, signing statements, and the scope of the unitary executive.\n\nAccording to Sun Yat-sen's idea of \"separation of the five powers\", the government of the Republic of China has five branches:\n\nThe president and vice president as well as the defunct National Assembly are constitutionally not part of the above five branches. Before being abolished in 2005, the National Assembly was a standing constituent assembly and electoral college for the president and vice president. Its constitutional amending powers were passed to the legislative yuan and its electoral powers were passed to the electorate.\n\nThe relationship between the executive and legislative branches are poorly defined. An example of the problems this causes is the near complete political paralysis that results when the president, who has neither the power to veto nor the ability to dissolve the legislature and call new elections, cannot negotiate with the legislature when his party is in the minority. The examination and control yuans are marginal branches; their leaders as well as the leaders of the executive and judicial yuans are appointed by the president and confirmed by the legislative yuan. The legislature is the only branch that chooses its own leadership. The vice president has practically no responsibilities.\n\nBelgium is currently a federated state that has imposed the trias politica on different governmental levels. The constitution of 1831, considered one of the most liberal of its time for limiting the powers of its monarch and imposing a rigorous system of separation of powers, is based on three principles (represented in the Schematic overview of Belgian institutions):\n\nTrias Politica (horizontal separation of powers):\n\nSubsidiarity (vertical separation of powers):\n\nSecularism (separation of state and religion):\n\nIn the aftermath of the 43-day civil war in 1948 (after former President and incumbent candidate Rafael Álgel Calderón Guardia tried to take power through fraud, by not recognising the results of the presidential election that he had lost), the question of which transformational model the Costa Rican State would follow was the main issue that confronted the victors. A Constituent Assembly was elected by popular vote to draw up a new constitution, enacted in 1949, and remains in force. This document was an edit of the constitution of 1871, as the constituent assembly rejected more radical corporatist ideas proposed by the ruling Junta Fundadora de la Segunda República (which, although having come to power by military force, abolished the armed forces). Nonetheless, the new constitution increased centralization of power at the expense of municipalities and eliminated provincial government altogether, at the time it increased the powers of congress and the judiciary.\n\nIt established the three supreme powers as the legislature, executive, and judicial branches, but also created two other autonomous state organs that have equivalent power, but not equivalent rank. The first is the Tribunal Supremo de Elecciones de Costa Rica (electoral branch) which controls elections and makes unique, unappealable decisions on their outcomes.\n\nThe second is the office of the Comptroller General (audit branch), an autonomous and independent organ nominally subordinate to the unicameral legislative assembly. All budgets of ministries and municipalities must pass through this agency, including the execution of budget items such as contracting for routine operations. The Comptroller also provides financial vigilance over government offices and office holders, and routinely brings actions to remove mayors for malfeasance, firmly establishing this organization as the fifth branch of the Republic.\n\nThe European Union is a supranational polity, and is neither a country nor a federation; but as the EU wields political power it complies with the principle of separation of powers. There are seven institutions of the European Union. In intergovernmental matters, most power is concentrated in the Council of the European Union—giving it the characteristics of a normal international organization. Here, all power at the EU level is in one branch. In the latter there are four main actors. The European Commission acts as an independent executive which is appointed by the Council in conjunction with the European Parliament; but the Commission also has a legislative role as the sole initiator of EU legislation.\n\nThe three branches in German government are further divided into six main bodies enshrined in the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany:\n\nBesides the constitutional court the judicial branch at the federal level is made up of five supreme courts—one for civil and criminal cases (\"Bundesgerichtshof\"), and one each for administrative, tax, labour, and social security issues. There are also state (\"Länder / Bundesländer\") based courts beneath them, and a rarely used senate of the supreme courts.\n\nThe four independent branches of power in Hungary (the parliament, the government, the court system, and the office of the public accuser) are divided into six bodies:\n\nThe independent pillar status of the Hungarian public accuser's office is a unique construction, loosely modeled on the system Portugal introduced after the 1974 victory of the Carnation Revolution. The public accuser (attorney general) body has become the fourth column of Hungarian democracy only in recent times: after communism fell in 1989, the office was made independent by a new clausule XI. of the Constitution. The change was meant to prevent abuse of state power, especially with regards to the use of false accusations against opposition politicians, who may be excluded from elections if locked in protracted or excessively severe court cases.\n\nTo prevent the Hungarian accuser's office from neglecting its duties, natural human private persons can submit investigation requests, called \"pótmagánvád\" directly to the courts, if the accusers' office refuses to do its job. Courts will decide if the allegations have merit and order police to act in lieu of the accuser's office if warranted. In its decision No. 42/2005 the Hungarian constitutional court declared that the government does not enjoy such privilege and the state is powerless to further pursue cases if the public accuser refuses to do so.\n\nNotable examples of states after Montesquieu that had more than three powers include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2548924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2548924", "title": "Sequence of tenses", "text": "Sequence of tenses\n\nSequence of tenses (known in Latin as consecutio temporum, and also known as agreement of tenses, succession of tenses and tense harmony) is a set of grammatical rules of a particular language, governing the agreement between the tenses of verbs in related clauses or sentences.\n\nA typical context in which rules of sequence of tenses apply is that of indirect speech. If, at some past time, someone spoke a sentence in a particular tense (say the present tense), and that act of speaking is now being reported, the tense used in the clause that corresponds to the words spoken may or may not be the same as the tense that was used by the original speaker. In some languages the tense tends to be \"shifted back\", so that what was originally spoken in the present tense is reported using the past tense (since what was in the present at the time of the original sentence is in the past relative to the time of reporting). English is one of the languages in which this often occurs. For example, if someone said \"I need a drink\", this may be reported in the form \"She said she needed a drink\", with the tense of the verb \"need\" changed from present to past.\n\nThe \"shifting back\" of tense as described in the previous paragraph may be called backshifting or an attracted sequence of tenses. In languages and contexts where such a shift does not occur, there may be said by contrast to be a natural sequence.\n\nIn English, an \"attracted sequence\" of tenses (backshifting) is often used in indirect speech and similar contexts. The attracted sequence can be summarized as follows: If the main verb of a sentence is in the past tense, then other verbs must also express a past viewpoint, except when a general truth is being expressed.\n\nFor example, if Batman spoke the following words:\nthe speech act may be reported using the following words:\nwith the present tense \"need\" replaced by the past tense \"needed\", since the main verb of saying (\"said\") is in the past tense. Further examples can be found at .\n\nIn some cases, though, a \"natural sequence\" of tenses is more appropriate. Here the tense of a verb in a subordinate clause is not determined by the tense of the verb in the superordinate clause, but is determined simply according to the sense of the clause taken apart from the rest of the sentence. The rule for writers following the natural sequence of tenses can be expressed as follows: imagine yourself at the point in time denoted by the main verb, and use the tense for the subordinate verb that you would have used \"at that time\". Thus the tense used in the indirect speech remains the same as it was in the words as originally spoken. This is normal when the main verb is in the present or future tense (as opposed to past tense or conditional mood). For example:\n\nHowever it is also possible to use the natural sequence even if the main verb is past or conditional:\nThis option is more likely to be used when the circumstance being expressed remains equally true now as it did when the speech act took place, and especially if the person reporting the words agrees that they are true or valid.\n\nDebate amongst grammarians over the appropriateness of the two types of sequence of tenses goes back as far as the 18th century. Use of the attracted sequence sometimes leads to additional problems when the grammatical construction of indirect speech includes an incorporated quotation – that is, when an attempt is made (though using indirect rather than direct speech) to report the words actually spoken. For example, if a minister spoke the words \"Such a policy is not without its drawbacks\", then a writer may attempt to report this as follows:\nusing quotation marks to denote that that portion of the sentence represents the minister's actual words. This, however, requires use of the natural sequence of tenses, which might not be felt appropriate in the given situation. There are various possible solutions to this problem:\nSimilar problems arise from the other changes that typically occur in indirect speech, such as changes of pronoun (depending on speaker), etc.\n\nFor more details, see the article on indirect speech, and also the article on uses of English verb forms, particularly the sections on indirect speech and dependent clauses.\n\nIndirect speech in Russian and other Slavic languages generally uses the natural sequence of tenses (there is no backshifting). For examples, see .\n\nIn Latin a primary tense (simple present tense, present perfect, simple future tense, or future perfect) in the superordinate clause is followed by primary tense in the subordinate clauses, and a historic \"tense\" in the superordinate clause (imperfect, perfect, or pluperfect) is followed by a historic tense in the subordinate clause.\nIn Latin the \"Consecutio temporum\" (sequence of the tenses) is a gathering of rules that are followed in the subordination of Latin clauses.\nThe Consecutio Temporum is used with the indicative, subjunctive and infinitive moods.\nThe infinitive mood is used in dependent noun clauses, in which the subject is expressed in accusative and the verb at the infinitive mood. The tense is present infinitive if the action in the clause is contemporary to the action of the independent main clause; it is perfect infinitive if the dependent verb is anterior to the verb of the independent; it is future infinitive if it happens after the action of the independent is over.\nSome types of dependent clauses have the verb in the indicative mood.\nIf the independent's action is contemporary to the dependent's, here the tense will be the same as in the independent. If the relation of tenses is of posteriority you will use the future participle plus the present simple of \"sum\" (active periphrastic) in the dependent. If the relation is of anteriority it changes: if the verb in the independent is a present indicative tense, the verb in the dependent clause will be in a perfect tense. If the independent's verb is an imperfect tense, the dependent's will be a pluperfect, if the dependent's is future simple, the dependent's will be future perfect.\nThe Consecutio Temporum of the subjunctive mood is much more difficult, and also the most used in the dependent clauses, but we can remember the whole following of Latin tenses in these tables:\n\nIn Classical Greek, the tenses in subordinate clauses must correspond to those in the superordinate clauses governing them. (However, unlike Latin and Romance languages, the subjunctive mood has no tenses and won't follow the tenses, of course.)\n\nA principal tense (present tense, future tense, or perfect tense) in the superordinate clause is followed by a principal tense in the indicative mood or subjunctive mood. Such a principal tense is followed by:\n\nA historical tense (imperfect, pluperfect, or aorist) in the superordinate clause is followed by a historical tense in the indicative mood or optative mood. Such a historic tense is followed by:\n\nIn fact, since Greek tenses express the aspect of the verb, not the time, we don't have the \"Consecutio Temporum\", but the \"Consecutio Modorum\", the sequence of the Moods.\n\nThe set of rules comprising the sequence of tenses (and modes of the main and subordinate clauses) in the Italian language corresponds in general to the \"consecutio temporum\" of the Latin grammar.\n\nTo determine the form of the verb in the subordinate clause it is necessary to know:\n\n\nThe various combinations are summarized in four tables (see below).\n\nIf the verb of the main clause is in the past (simple past, imperfect, or past perfect), the verbal forms of the subordinate clause refer to the moment indicated in the main clause and adapt accordingly. The present in the subordinate clase will transform to imperfect, the past will become past perfect, etc.:\n\nDespite of the use of the subjunctive, the verbal tenses follow rules similar to the ones of the Indicative mood. The Present Indicative of the subordinate clause will be substituted with the subjunctive present; similarly, the present perfect will be substituted with its correspondent form, that of the past subjunctive and the Past perfect tense with the subjunctive past perfect.\n\nIf the verb of the main clause is in the past tense, the verbal forms of the subordinate will be adapted to that of the main clause:\n\n"}
{"id": "2438730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2438730", "title": "Standpoint theory", "text": "Standpoint theory\n\nStandpoint theory is a theory for analyzing inter-subjective discourses. This body of work concerns the ways that authority is rooted in individuals' knowledge (their perspectives), and the power that such authority exerts.\n\nStandpoint theory's most important concept is that an individual's own perspectives are shaped by his or her social and political experiences. Standpoints are multifaceted rather than essentializing: while Hispanic women may generally share some perspectives, particularly with regard to ethnicity or sex, they are not defined solely by their participation in these categories. The amalgamation of a person's many experienced dimensions form a standpoint—a point of view—through which that individual sees and understands the world.\n\nStandpoint theorists emphasize the utility of a naturalistic, or everyday experiential, concept of knowing (i.e., epistemology). One's standpoint (whether reflexively considered or not) shapes which concepts are intelligible, which claims are heard and understood by whom, which features of the world are perceptually salient, which reasons are understood to be relevant and forceful, and which conclusions credible.\n\nStandpoint theory supports what feminist theorist Sandra Harding calls strong objectivity, or the notion that the perspectives of marginalized and/or oppressed individuals can help to create more objective accounts of the world. Through the outsider-within phenomenon, these individuals are placed in a unique position to point to patterns of behavior that those immersed in the dominant group culture are unable to recognize. Standpoint theory gives voice to the marginalized groups by allowing them to challenge the status quo as the outsider within. The status quo representing the dominant white male position of privilege.\n\nThe predominant culture in which all groups exist is not experienced in the same way by all persons or groups. The views of those who belong to groups with more social power are validated more than those in marginalized groups. Those in marginalized groups must learn to be bicultural, or to \"pass\" in the dominant culture to survive, even though that perspective is not their own.\n\nThe original inspirations for standpoint theory can be seen in the works of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, a German idealist philosopher, who studied the different standpoints between slaves and masters in 1807. He claimed that the master-slave relationship is about people's belonging positions, and the groups affect how people receive knowledge and power. Karl Marx also discussed how the position of a worker shapes his or her knowledge. From these two scholars' studies, Nancy Hartsock examined standpoint theory by using relations between men and women. She published \"The Feminist Standpoint: Developing Ground for a Specifically Feminist Historical Materialism\" in 1983. Hartsock used Hegel's ideas of masters and slaves and Marx's ideas of class and capitalism as an inspiration to look into matters of sex and gender.\n\nContemporary standpoint theory often focuses on the social positions such as gender, race, class, culture, and economic status. Standpoint theory seeks to develop a particular feminist epistemology, that values the experiences of women and minorities as a source for knowledge..\n\nProminent standpoint theorists include Dorothy Smith, Nancy Hartsock, Donna Haraway, Sandra Harding, Alison Wylie, Lynette Hunter and Patricia Hill Collins.\n\nGenerally, standpoint theory gives insight into specific circumstances only available to the members of a certain collective standpoint. According to Michael Ryan, \"the idea of a collective standpoint does not imply an essential overarching characteristic but rather a sense of belonging to a group bounded by a shared experience.\". Kristina Rolin states that \"the assumption of essentialism is that all women share the same socially grounded perspective in virtue of being women, the assumption of automatic epistemic privilege is that epistemic advantage accrues to the subordinate automatically, just in virtue of their occupying a particular social position.\"\nAccording to this approach:\n\nSince standpoint theory focuses on marginalized populations, it is often applied within fields that focus on these populations. Standpoint has been referenced as a concept that should be acknowledged and understood in the Social Work field, especially when approaching and assisting clients. Many marginalized populations rely on the welfare system to survive. Unfortunately, those who structure the welfare system typically have never needed to utilize its services before. Standpoint theory has been presented as a method to improving the welfare system by recognizing suggestions made by those within the welfare system. In Africa, standpoint theory has catalyzed a social movement where women are introduced to the radio in order to promote awareness of their experiences and hardships and to help these women heal and find closure. Another example dealing with Africa is slavery and how slavery differed greatly depending on if one was the slave or the master. If there were any power relationships there could never be a single perspective. No viewpoint could ever be complete, and there is no limit to anyone's perspective.\n\nAsante and Davis’s (1989) study of interracial encounters in the workplace found that because of different cultural perspectives, approaching organizational interactions with others with different beliefs, assumptions, and meanings often leads to miscommunication. Brenda Allen stated in her research that, \"Organizational members' experiences, attitudes, and behaviors in the workplace are often influenced by race-ethnicity\"\n\nPaul Adler and John Jermier suggest that management scholars should be aware of their standpoints. They write that those studying management should \"consciously choose [their] standpoints and take responsibility for the impact (or lack of impact) of [their] scholarship on the world\".\n\nJermier argued that all parts of a research study- identifying the problem, theorizing research questions, gathering and analyzing data, drawing conclusions, and the knowledge produced are there to some extent because of the researcher’s standpoint. This caused him to question what standpoint to adopt in the management of scientists. To avoid falling into limitations of the status quo and certain standpoints, he said that \"the view from below has greater potential to generate more complete and more objective knowledge claims.\" He continues to say that, “if our desire is to heal the world, we will learn more about how the root mechanisms of the world work and about how things can be changed by adopting the standpoints of those people and other parts of nature that most deeply suffer its wounds.”\n\nFeminist standpoint theorists make three principal claims: (1) Knowledge is socially situated. (2) Marginalized groups are socially situated in ways that make it more possible for them to be aware of things and ask questions than it is for the non-marginalized. (3) Research, particularly that focused on power relations, should begin with the lives of the marginalized. \nFeminist standpoint theorists such as Dorothy Smith, Patricia Hill Collins, Nancy Hartsock, and Sandra Harding claimed that certain socio-political positions occupied by women (and by extension other groups who lack social and economic privilege) can become sites of epistemic privilege and thus productive starting points for enquiry into questions about not only those who are socially and politically marginalized, but also those who, by dint of social and political privilege, occupy the positions of oppressors. This claim was specifically generated by Sandra Harding and as such, \"Starting off research from women's lives will generate less partial and distorted accounts not only of women's lives but also of men's lives and of the whole social order.\" This practice is also quite evident when women enter into professions that are considered to be male oriented. Londa Schiebinger states, \"While women now study at prestigious universities at about the same rate as men, they are rarely invited to join the faculty at top universities...The sociologist Harriet Zuckerman has observed that 'the more prestigious the institution, the longer women wait to be promoted.' Men, generally speaking, face no such trade-off.\"\n\nStandpoint feminists have been concerned with these dualisms for two related reasons. First, dualisms usually imply a hierarchical relationship between the terms, elevating one and devaluing the other. He also said that when we suggest that decisions should be made rationally, not emotionally, for example, we are showing that reason holds a higher value in our culture than does emotion. Also, related to this issue is the concern that these dualisms often become gendered in our culture. In this process, men are associated with one extreme and women with the other. In the case of reason and emotion, women are identified with emotion. Because our culture values emotion less than reason, women suffer from this association. Feminist critics are usually concerned with the fact that dualisms force false dichotomies (partition of a whole) onto women and men, failing to see that life is less either/or than both/and, as relational dialectics theory holds.\n\nCritics argue that standpoint theory, despite challenging essentialism, relies itself on essentialism, as it focuses on the dualism of subjectivity and objectivity. In regards to feminist standpoint theory: though it does dispel many false generalizations of women, it is argued that focus on social groups and social classes of women is still inherently essentialist. Generalizations across the entire female gender can be broken into smaller more specific groups pertaining to women's different social classes and cultures, but are still generalized as distinct groups, and thus marginalization still occurs. West and Turner stated that an author by the name of Catherine O'Leary (1997) argued that although standpoint theory has been helpful in reclaiming women's experiences as suitable research topics, it contains a problematic emphasis on the universality of this experience, at the expense of differences among women's experiences.\n\nAnother main criticism of Harding and Wood's standpoint theory is the credibility of strong objectivity vs. subjectivity. Standpoint theorists argue that standpoints are relative and cannot be evaluated by any absolute criteria, but make the assumption that the oppressed are less biased or more impartial than the privileged. This leaves open the possibility of an overbalance of power, in which the oppressed group intentionally or unintentionally becomes the oppressor. Intentional overbalance of power, or revenge, can manifest as justification for extremism and militarism, which can sometimes be seen in more extreme forms of feminism.\n\nWhile the beginnings of standpoint theory are based on the critical paradigm from a Marxist view of social class oppression, a feminist philosophy developed in the 1970s and 1980s and the main focus has been on the feministic side. Other groups, as of now, need to be included into the theory and a new emphasis needs to be made toward other marginalized or muted groups. These groups envelop minorities, culturally different and the disabled or those that have a disability. When Harding and Wood conceived Standpoint theory they did not understand, when they defined it as a feminist view, that there are different cultures existing in the same social group. Many researchers are unsure of the idea of it having essentialism, as essentialism refers to the practice of generalizing all groups as though they were, in essence, the same.” Early standpoint theorists sought to understand the way in which the gendered identity of knowers affected their epistemic resources and capacities”. These other muted or marginalized groups have a more realistic approach to standpoint theory as they have different experiences than those that are in power and even within those muted groups differences defined by different cultures of people can have an altered standpoint. This view gives a basis that in part Standpoint Theory has a central principle of the inversion thesis and Joshua St. Pierre defined this as \"the inversion thesis gives epistemic authority to those marginalized by systems of oppression insofar as these people are often better knowers than those who benefit from oppression. Put simply: social dispossession produces epistemic privilege.\"\n\nPart of standpoint theory’s return to favor comes from a re-articulation of its methodology, aims, and limitations that directly answer the criticisms mentioned above.\n\nWylie has perhaps provided the most succinct articulation of second-wave standpoint theory. For her, a standpoint does not mark out a clearly defined territory such as “women” within which members have automatic privilege but is a rather a posture of epistemic engagement. Responding to the claim that the situated knowledge thesis reifies essentialism, Wylie thus argues that it is \"an open (empirical) question whether such structures obtain in a given context, what form they take, and how they are internalized or embodied by individuals\". Identities are complex and cannot be reduced to simple binaries. Likewise, she argues that the criticism of automatic privilege is falters insofar as a standpoint is never given, but is achieved. (St. Pierre)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48560790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48560790", "title": "Stephen Baxter bibliography", "text": "Stephen Baxter bibliography\n\nThis is the complete bibliography of British science fiction author Stephen Baxter.\n\nThe Destiny's Children series is part of the Xeelee Sequence. \n\nBaxter contributed two books to this series for young adults. See The Web (series)\n"}
{"id": "13461971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13461971", "title": "Swiss School of Archaeology in Greece", "text": "Swiss School of Archaeology in Greece\n\nThe Swiss School of Archaeology in Greece (ESAG) (; ; ; ) is one of the foreign archaeological institutes operating in Greece. \nSince 1964, the Swiss archaeologists have been excavating the remains of the ancient site of Eretria (Euboea), a medium-sized city which has extensively contributed to the development and the influence of the Greek civilisation. Hosted in Switzerland by the University of Lausanne, the Swiss School has its head office in Athens, in an Art Nouveau building at Odos Skaramanga 4B. The school has also offices in a 19th-century neoclassical house in Eretria, Odos Apostoli 15.\n\nSwiss archaeologists started to work in Euboea in April 1964, but the Greek Archaeological Council had already accepted the principle of Swiss participation in the excavation and study of the ruins of Eretria in 1962. \nVasilis Petrakos, who was then the epimelete in charge of Eretria, had drawn the attention of the Greek archaeological authorities to the threat to Eretria's ancient remains posed by the development of the small modern town. In fact, no other foreign archaeological team had been involved in studying the site since 1895, when the American School of Classical Studies at Athens completed its work. \nIn 1975, after the end of the rule of the military junta (1967–1974), the Swiss Mission requested and received the title, habitual in Greece, of \"School of Archaeology\". \nThe activities of the Swiss School of Archaeology in Greece in Eretria are multiple: they include the exploration of the city's past by the excavation of its ruins, the study of the material discovered, the publication of research, the preservation of archaeological remains in the field and in the Museum, and their development and presentation to the public.\n\nThe forty years of Swiss archaeological excavations in Eretria (1964–2004) can be divided into three phases. \nThe first phase, which extends from the beginning until 1982, is that of the great discoveries: the rich necropolis from the Geometric Period (Heroon), the structures predating the temple of Apollo Daphnephoros uncovered under the foundations of the 6th century BC temple, and the sumptuous dwellings of the Classical-Hellenistic Period, including the House of the Mosaics. \nThe second phase, from 1982 to 1995, is that of consolidation, research on the material excavated, and finally a more moderate extension of the terrain (the West Quarter, the North Gymnasium, the acropolis, the Sacrificial area north of the Sanctuary of Apollo). \nThe third phase (1996–2009) is marked by a new spurt of excavation activity with the exploration of a sector located not far from the House of the Mosaics, which led to the discovery of the Industrial Quarter as well as remains going back to the second millennium BC.\n\nDuring the first eighteen years of its existence (1964–1982), the Swiss School of Archaeology in Greece, relied on the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNF) as the sole source of financial support for its activities. \nCreated in 1983, the \"Foundation of the Swiss School of Archaeology in Greece\" assumed responsibility for high-level administration and for seeking indispensable financial income from various donors: patrons, foundations, industries and companies, Swiss universities, and the Swiss Academy of Human and Social Sciences (SAGW). \nThe University of Lausanne (UNIL), which has served as the Foundation's headquarters in Switzerland since 1982, plays a crucial role in its organization. \n\nThanks to the excavations it has conducted and the research it has organized -from the study of the data gathered in the field to their publication- the Swiss School of Archaeology in Greece provides a valuable framework for cultural exchange: many professors, doctoral candidates, advanced students, and interns from Swiss universities have in fact taken part in the activities of the School and in the study of Eretria's past. It is clear that much remains to be discovered. Only a tiny part of ancient Eretria has been excavated, while the materials deposited in the Museum and the documentation of older excavations have not yet yielded all the information they hold. In the years to come, we hope to learn more about the beginnings of the city and about the occupation of the territory, to cite only a few of the research projects underway. \nAll the projects are subject to the authorization of the Greek government's Ministry of Culture, and the provision of advance notice to the Ephorate of Euboean Antiquities, which is also responsible for overseeing the activities.\n\nThe School has conceived, financed and carried out the expansion of the archaeological Museum, as well as the construction of a pavilion to protect and display the mosaics of the House of the Mosaics (1987–1991). It preserves and maintains the archaeological remains it excavates. It has proposed various projects for the preservation and presentation of the Theater. \nThe results of its investigations are published annually in the Swiss journal Antike Kunst and summaries appear in the series Eretria, Excavations and Researches (20 volumes published to date). Eretria has continued to provide numerous subjects for articles, books and university dissertations.\n\nFrom the outset, the School has taken an interest in the origins of the modern town of Eretria. In 1974‒75, a team from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich drew up a map showing numerous 19th-century houses and proposed that they be preserved. A project was submitted to municipal and governmental authorities, and then presented in two exhibitions, one in Eretria, the other in Athens. \nThe creation of an archaeological zone in the region between the Temple of Apollo Daphnephoros and the House of the Mosaics, which constituted an important part of the 1975 project, has sporadically inspired interest. \nIn 1998, the Swiss School gave a new impulse to studies on modern and contemporary Eretria that led to the publication of a book. \nIn terms of specific accomplishments, the School has restored a 19th-century house that belonged to Admiral Nikodimos, one of the heroes of the Greek War of Independence, and also established its headquarters in Eretria.\n\n- I Paul Auberson, Temple d'Apollon Daphnéphoros. Architecture.\n\n- II Ingrid R. Metzger, Die hellenistische Keramik in Eretria.\n\n- III Claude Bérard, L'Hérôon à la Porte de l'Ouest.\n\n- IV Clemens Krause, Das Westtor. Ergebnisse der Ausgrabungen 1964-1968.\n\n- V André Hurst, Jean-Paul Descoeudres, Paul Auberson, Ombres de l'Eubée?; Die vorklassische Keramik aus dem Gebiet des Westtores; Le temple de Dionysos.\n\n- VI Jean-Paul Descoeudres, Christiane Dunant, Ingrid R. Metzger, Claude Bérard, Euboeans in Australia; Stèles funéraires; Gefässe mit Palmetten-Lotus Dekor; Die Funde aus den Pyrai; Topographie et urbanisme de l'Erétrie archaïque: l'Hérôon.\n\n- VII Ingrid R. Metzger, Das Thesmophorion von Eretria. Funde und Befunde eines Heiligtums.\n\n- VIII Pierre Ducrey, Ingrid R. Metzger, Karl Reber, Le Quartier de la Maison aux mosaïques.\n\n- IX Kristine Gex, Rotfigurige und weissgrundige Keramik.\n\n- X Karl Reber, Die klassischen und hellenistischen Wohnhäuser im Westquartier.\n\n- XI Denis Knoepfler, Décrets érétriens de proxénie et de citoyenneté.\n\n- XII Nina Mekacher, Marek Palaczyk, Matrizengeformte hellenistische Terrakotten; Esther Schönenberger, Amphorenstempel. Grabungen 1964-2001.\n\n- XIII Elena Mango, Das Gymnasion.\n\n- XIV Sandrine Huber, L'Aire sacrificielle au nord du Sanctuaire d'Apollon Daphnéphoros. Un rituel des époques géométrique et archaïque.\n\n- XV Ferdinand Pajor, Eretria - Nea Psara. Eine klassizistische Stadtanlage über der antiken Polis.\n\n- XVI Stephan G. Schmid, Boire pour Apollon. Céramique hellénistique et banquets dans le Sanctuaire d'Apollon Daphnéphoros.\n\n- XVII Béatrice Blandin, Les pratiques funéraires d'époque géométrique à Erétrie. Espace des vivants, demeures des morts.\n\n- XVIII Hans Peter Isler, with a contribution by Elisa Ferroni, Das Theater.\n\n- XIX Caroline Huguenot, La Tombe aux Erotes et la Tombe d'Amarynthos. Architecture funéraire et présence macédonienne en Grèce centrale.\n\n- XX Samuel Verdan, Anne Kenzelmann Pfyffer, Claude Léderrey, Céramique géométrique d'Erétrie.\n\n- XXI Sylvian Fachard, La défense du territoire. Etude de la chôra érétrienne et de ses fortifications.\n\n- XXII Samuel Verdan, Le Sanctuaire d’Apollon Daphnéphoros à l’époque géométrique.\n\n- Eretria. A Guide to the Ancient City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31870518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31870518", "title": "The Havighurst Center for Russian and Post-Soviet Studies", "text": "The Havighurst Center for Russian and Post-Soviet Studies\n\nThe Havighurst Center for Russian and Post-Soviet Studies at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, was established in 2000. The result of an endowment left by Walter E. Havighurst, the Center is devoted to joint research by Miami faculty with scholars from Russia, Eastern Europe, and Eurasia, and from other American universities; to service and learning activities for the Miami student community that provide a greater understanding of these regions; and to programs designed to foster interdisciplinary research on the most important questions relating to the future of these areas.\n\nSince its inaugural year, the Havighurst Center has continued to support intellectual and cultural activities at Miami University. In 2001, the Center hosted its first annual International Young Researchers’ conference, with papers from advanced graduate students and recent doctoral recipients from the U.S. and abroad. It also instituted the weekly Havighurst Colloquia Series, a course-related lecture series in which faculty from the Miami campus, as well as invited outside speakers, talk about their research and present formal papers on themes chosen for that year.\n\nIn addition to organizing its own lectures and conferences, the Havighurst Center also awards grants bi-annually to Miami University faculty and departments who wish to offer Center-related programs or activities to the Miami community. Awards have been given to the Miami University Art Museum for a variety of traveling exhibits; the Havighurst Center has also provided funds for numerous musical and performing artists in cooperation with Miami University’s Performing Arts Series, including performances by the Moscow Philharmonic; the Moscow Circus; the Moscow Chamber Orchestra, conducted by Constantin Orbelian; the Russian National Ballet; Ensemble Kabul, an ensemble from Afghanistan; and a week-long residency with the Ilkhom Theatre Company from Uzbekistan.\n\nIn 2017, the Havighurst Center became partners with the journal \"Ab Imperio\".\n\nPostdoctoral fellowships are awarded annually by the Havighurst Center. Fellowships are given in all areas of academic study related to Russia and other post Soviet countries, including history, politics, music, culture, art, architecture, religion, literature, and daily life. The fellowships are designed for junior scholars of exceptional promise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45039766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45039766", "title": "The Japanese and Europe", "text": "The Japanese and Europe\n\nThe Japanese and Europe: Economic and Cultural Encounters is a 1996 book by Marie Conte-Helm, published by Athlone Press. The book discusses Japanese investment and settlement in Europe, which began in the 1980s. Conte-Helm was a reader of Japanese studies at the University of Northumbria. The book's intended audience included both Japanese and Western persons.\n\nThe first two chapters discuss the history of Europe-Japan encounters. The first chapter discusses overall history that began in the 1540s, when the Portuguese encountered the Japanese, while the second chapter discusses Japan-European Community relations. The next two chapters discuss the Japanese expatriate communities that formed in Europe. There are separate sections per European country, with one section each discussing the Japanese in Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom. The last chapter, titled \"Japanization of Europe: Raw Fish, Wrestling, and 'Just-in-Time',\" discusses the effects of Japanese expatriates on European society. Mairi MacLean of Royal Holloway, University of London wrote that the book included \"something of a 'survival guide'\" for Japanese persons by describing facilities in Europe catering to Japanese.\n\nSeveral Japanese employees in Europe gave interviews that were used in the making of the book. There are 28 pages of photographs and illustrations, including advertisements, charts, maps, and newspaper articles. Ian Nish, who wrote a book review for \"Asian Affairs\", praised them, saying they were \"well-chosen\". \n\nNish stated that the book was \"a pleasure to read\".\n\nRaymond Lamont-Brown, who wrote a book review for \"Contemporary Review\", wrote that \"Overall the book gives a good grounding in how adjustments of European perspectives about Japan have been and continue to be made.\"\n\nSir Hugh Cortazzi, a former Ambassador of the United Kingdom to Japan, wrote in his book review that \"The Japanese and Europe\" \"is well researched, copiously illustrated and full of interesting information\".\n\nMacLean wrote that the book has too much emphasis on the illustrations, which is \"[a]t times[...]irritating\" and contributes to the \"principal flaw\" of having \"a certain superficiality\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23849866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23849866", "title": "The Sims 3: World Adventures", "text": "The Sims 3: World Adventures\n\nThe Sims 3: World Adventures or World Adventures is the first expansion pack for the strategic life simulation computer game \"The Sims 3\". It was announced on \"The Sims 3\" website in August 2009, and had a North American release on November 18, 2009.\n\nThe expansion pack focuses on travelling to various areas in a manner similar to previous expansions \"\" and \"\". Sims are able to travel to simplified versions of France, China, and Egypt. At these locations, sims are able to participate in adventures to earn rewards and benefits. Sims are also able to level up in new skills: photography, martial arts, and nectar making. In addition, the expansion pack provides new objects, socials, wishes, and opportunities.\n\nEarly reception of the expansion pack was positive with the expansion pack earning a \"Metacritic\" rating of 81.\n\nPlayers create their sims and control them throughout their lives. Players are able to manage various aspects of a sim's life including careers, skills and relationships. The gameplay of \"World Adventures\" remains largely unchanged from the original.\n\n\"World Adventures\" expands on \"The Sims 3\" by allowing players to take sims to simulated locations of Egypt, France and China. Sims are able to engage in cultural activities depending on the location. In Egypt, sims can visit pyramids and take up snake-charming; in China, sims are able to launch fireworks as well as take up martial arts, and in France, sims can engage in nectar making. The amount of time a sim is able to stay in a location is dependent on a visa level. This level is increased by going on various adventures.\n\nThe main gameplay of \"World Adventures\" revolves around the ability to go on various quests known as adventures. An adventure consists of various goals linked together in a story line. Typical goals include exploring various tombs, finding valuables and socializing with other sims. When exploring tombs, sims must navigate various obstacles to unlock different rooms. Initially, the entire tomb is hidden in a fog-of-war that disappears as the sim enters each room. Tombs hold several puzzle solving elements such as traps, dive holes and floor switches.\n\nIn addition, the expansion pack includes a complex tomb-building element that can be accessed using the game's debug tools. Players are able to add gameplay-specific objects to their tombs as well as set various cause-effect mechanisms.\n\n\"World Adventures\" adds three skills that provide new goals and challenges to players. The martial arts skill is initially increased by practising with training dummies. Once a skill threshold is reached sims can break wood and other objects placed over two blocks. Sims are able to engage in tournaments to increase their ranking. A sims skill level is represented visually by various belts that a sim wears on their uniform.\n\nThe nectar-making skill is increased by squishing various fruits into a nectar maker. The quality of the nectar is based on the quality of the individual fruits as well the state of the nectar maker. The value of the nectar can be increased by allowing the bottles to age in a nectar cellar.\n\nThe photography skill is based on taking photographs with a hand-held camera. Photos are taken using a first-person viewpoint. The game can detect the subject of a photograph. The game provides goals to the player in the form of lists of subjects for the sim to photograph. In addition, players can choose various styles such as panorama and sepia.\n\nThe creature that features on the game's cover art is a mummy, which have several abilities, such as not having to go to sleep. They may also be encountered in tombs, where the player can be cursed.\n\nThere is also a new basement tool, which can be used to make proper basements without having to go through all sorts of fiddly ground operations. These basements can have four levels underground, in addition to the five above.\n\n\"The Sims 3: World Adventures\" was first announced on August 3, 2009. An expansion pack for \"The Sims 3\" was seen as inevitable given the number produced for both \"The Sims\" and \"The Sims 2\". In particular, the themes of pets, downtown areas, and vacations carried over in both games leading some people to guess that they would be included in future expansion packs. On November 2, 2009, it was announced that the expansion pack had gone gold.\n\nDuring an interview, producer Lyndsay Pearson said that real-world locations were a draw for their players and that users had been creating famous buildings on the exchange. The expansion pack represented an extension of that desire. She also stated that innovations present in the expansion pack could not have been achieved before.\n\nIt has been announced that exclusive online content would be made available on The Sims 3 Store when the expansion pack is released. This is seen as creating extra incentives for the players to buy the game. Lyndsay Pearson also stated that when creating the expansion pack that they are adding content that could not be sent through the Store. USD$10 (£6) worth of credit have also been offered for people that buy the expansion pack.\n\nIn addition, mobile versions have been released for iOS and cell phones.\n\nThe score to \"The Sims 3: World Adventures\" was composed by Steve Jablonsky, who had previously composed the score to \"The Sims 3\". He recorded his score with a 35-piece string and woodwind ensemble at Eastwest Studios in Hollywood.\n\nOn August 18, 2009 it was revealed that Nelly Furtado, Pixie Lott, Stefanie Heinzmann, Matt & Kim and The Young Punx would be recording songs in Simlish for the expansion pack. Then on October 13, 2009, more artists were announced.\n\nEarly reception for this expansion pack was largely positive. GamePro argued the expansion pack's only bad feature was being able to make players lose several hours in the addictive gameplay. IGN's Steve Butts criticized the adventure-based gameplay and the difficulty of having family vacations, however, he concluded, \"I hope World Adventures sets the pattern for future Sims expansions.\"\n\n\"World Adventures\" was listed as seventh in a list of the top ten selling PC games (expansion pack) of 2009, according to NPD sales charts. \"The Sims 3\" was listed as the highest selling game of 2009.\n"}
{"id": "857029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857029", "title": "Thracian Tomb of Sveshtari", "text": "Thracian Tomb of Sveshtari\n\nThe Thracian Tomb of Sveshtari (, Sveštarska grobnica) is 2.5 km southwest of the village of Sveshtari, Razgrad Province, which is 42 km northeast of Razgrad, in northeast Bulgaria.\n\nDiscovered in 1982 in a mound, this 3rd century BC Getic tomb reflects the fundamental structural principles of Thracian cult buildings. The tomb's architectural decor is considered to be unique, with polychrome half-human, half-plant caryatids and painted murals. The ten female figures carved in high relief on the walls of the central chamber and the decorations of the lunette in its vault are the only examples of this type found so far in the Thracian lands. It is a remarkable reminder of the culture of the Getae, a Thracian people who were in contact with the Hellenistic and Hyperborean worlds, according to ancient geographers.\n\nIn 2012, archaeologists uncovered a significant treasure near the village. The treasure included a golden ring, 44 female figure depictions and 100 golden buttons, found in 150 tombs from the 4th century BC.\nIt has been suggested that it is part of the site of the Getan city of Helis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14901146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14901146", "title": "Three Cups of Tea", "text": "Three Cups of Tea\n\nThree Cups of Tea: One Man's Mission to Promote Peace ... One School at a Time (original hardcover title: \"Three Cups of Tea: One Man's Mission to Fight Terrorism and Build Nations ... One School at a Time\") is a book by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin published by Penguin in 2007. For four years, the book remained on the \"New York Times\" nonfiction bestseller's list.\n\n\"Three Cups of Tea\" describes Mortenson's transition from a registered nurse and mountain-climber to a humanitarian committed to reducing poverty and elevating education for girls in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Following the beginnings of his humanitarian efforts, Mortenson co-founded the Central Asia Institute (CAI), a non-profit group that, as of 2010, reported overseeing the construction of over 171 schools. CAI reported that these schools provide education to over 64,000 children, including 54,000 girls. where few education opportunities previously existed in the remote regions of Pakistan and Afghanistan.\n\nThe book's title was inspired by a saying Haji Ali shared with Mortenson: \"The first time you share tea with a Balti, you are a stranger. The second time you take tea, you are an honored guest. The third time you share a cup of tea, you become family...\"\n\nIn April 2011, critiques and challenges of the book and Mortenson surfaced. Author Jon Krakauer alleged that a number of Mortenson's claims in the book are fictitious and accused him of mismanaging CAI funds.\n\nIn 1993, mountaineer Greg Mortenson attempted to climb K2, the world's second highest mountain, located in the Karakoram range of Gilgit-Baltistan, as a way of honoring the memory of his deceased sister, Christa. As a memorial, he had planned to lay her amber necklace on the summit of K2. After more than 70 days on the mountain, Mortenson and three other climbers had their ascent interrupted by the need to complete a 75-hour life-saving rescue of a fifth climber. After getting lost during his descent, alone, he became weak and exhausted. Instead of arriving in Askole, where his porters awaited, he came across Korphe, a small village built on a shelf jutting out from a canyon. He was greeted and taken in by the chief elder of Korphe, Haji Ali.\n\nMortenson soon found out that the village had no school. To repay the remote community for their hospitality, Mortenson recounted in the book that he promised to build a school for the village. After difficulties in raising capital, Mortenson was introduced to Jean Hoerni, a Silicon Valley pioneer who donated the money that Mortenson needed for his school. In the last months of his life, Hoerni co-founded the Central Asia Institute, endowing the CAI to build schools in rural Pakistan and Afghanistan.\n\nAccording to the book, Mortenson faced many daunting challenges in his quest to raise funds for the building of more than 55 schools in Taliban territory. Some of these challenges included death threats from Islamic mullahs, long periods of separation from his family, and being kidnapped by Taliban sympathizers.\n\nThough Mortenson and Relin are given equal credit for authoring the \"Three Cups of Tea\", it is written from Relin's perspective as a journalist interviewing and observing Mortenson. In the introduction, Relin admitted that his desire to see Mortenson's project succeed likely influenced his objectivity as a reporter. Elizabeth Kaplan, the agent for the book, later acknowledged that the relationship between Mortenson and Relin was difficult. Mortenson, who was often traveling, was hard to track down, and Relin spoke publicly about how Mortenson should not have been named a co-author. As detailed in a \"New York Times\" article, Relin \"suffered emotionally and financially as basic facts in the book were called into question\" and later committed suicide on November 15, 2012.\n\nThe original hardback edition of the book was released in 2006 with the subtitle, \"One Man's Mission to Fight Terrorism One School at a Time\". Mortenson fought against the subtitle, and the edition sold only 20,000 copies. He continued to prevail upon the publishers to change the subtitle for the 2007 paperback edition to his first choice, \"One Man's Mission to Promote Peace One School at a Time.\" His publisher relented, and the re-titled book made the New York Times nonfiction paperback bestseller list. Mortenson explained his reasoning for the subtitle in a lecture given in Fairfield, Connecticut: \"If you just fight terrorism, it's based in fear. If you promote peace, it's based in hope.\" \n\nThe book remained a number one \"New York Times\" bestseller for three years after its release. The book is also a popular university freshman or campus read on about three dozen campuses, has been chosen for One City One Book community reads in over 300 cities, is published in over 39 countries internationally, and is used on over 100 University and college campuses as a Freshman Experience, Honor's program or campus-wide read book. A young adult version of Three Cups of Tea was published by Penguin on January 22, 2009.\n\nIn 2010, South Asian scholar and anthropologist, Nosheen Ali, criticized \"Three Cups of Tea\" in that “it constructs a misleading narrative of terror in which the realities of Northern Pakistan and Muslim life-worlds are distorted through simplistic tropes of ignorance, backwardness and extremism, while histories of US geopolitics and violence are erased.” \n\nIn regard to Mortenson's management style at the Central Asia Institute, Nicholas D. Kristof, formerly a supporter, said that Mortenson is \"utterly disorganized,\" and added, \"I am deeply troubled that only 41 percent of the money raised in 2009 went to build schools.\" In a deeper look into Mortenson's business dealings, British journalist Jonathan Foreman wrote in a 2008 \"Daily Telegraph\" story that CAI's success was due in part to Mortenson's use of intuition and that he made decisions at the last minute. Foreman added that Mortenson was habitually late for meetings but that those traits worked well and were important to the success of his work in the Balti region of Pakistan. Baltistanis have no tenses in their language, are vague on their timekeeping, and make their own decisions largely based on intuition.\"\n\nOn the April 17, 2011 broadcast of CBS News' \"60 Minutes\", correspondent Steve Kroft alleged inaccuracies in Mortenson's book \"Three Cups of Tea\" and its sequel, \"Stones into Schools: Promoting Peace with Books, Not Bombs, in Afghanistan and Pakistan\", as well as financial improprieties in the operation of the Central Asia Institute. In particular, CBS News disputed Mortenson's claim that he got lost near K2 and ended up in Korphe, his capture by the Taliban in 1996, the number of schools built and supported by CAI, and the propriety of using CAI funds for Mortenson's book tours. \"60 Minutes\" asked Mortenson for an interview before their broadcast, but he did not respond to their requests.\n\n\"60 Minutes\" made the following allegations:\n\n\nJon Krakauer, a former financial supporter of CAI, questioned Mortenson's accounts separately and was interviewed for the \"60 Minutes\" segment. The day after the broadcast, Krakauer released his allegations in a lengthy online article, \"Three Cups of Deceit — How Greg Mortenson, Humanitarian Hero, Lost His Way\". In the article, Krakauer documents how he had been captivated by Mortenson's story and donated substantial sums to CAI, but subsequently heard stories of misconduct and began investigating. Krakauer stated that he invited Mortenson to address his allegations and scheduled an interview where Mortenson lives, but Mortenson then canceled the interview.\n\nMortenson responded to the allegations made against him, through the \"Bozeman Chronicle\": \"I stand by the information conveyed in my book, and by the value of CAI's work in empowering local communities to build and operate schools that have educated more than 60,000 students.\" Mortenson further explained, \"The time about our final days on K2 and ongoing journey to Korphe village and Skardu is a compressed version of events that took place in the fall of 1993...\"\n\nScott Darsney, a respected mountaineer and friend of Greg Mortenson, sent an email, subsequently turned into an exclusive article for \"Outside\" magazine's online version, as a response to the allegations against Mortenson. Darsney questioned the accuracy and fairness of both the Krakauer piece and the \"60 Minutes\" report. Darsney had been interviewed by Krakauer, and maintained that Krakauer either misquoted or misunderstood what he said.\n\nCAI responded to Krakauer's allegations by releasing a comprehensive list of projects completed over several years and currently in progress. The list was released in December, 2011.\n\nIn April 2012, following a year of investigation by the Montana attorney general, Mortenson agreed to repay $1 million to the CAI. The Montana inquiry determined that he had misspent over $6 million of the organization's money, although no criminality was found. Montana Attorney General Steve Bullock said: \"Mr Mortenson may not have intentionally deceived the board or his employees, but his disregard for and attitude about basic record-keeping and accounting for his activities essentially had the same effect.\"\n\nIn May 2011, Jean Price and Michele Reinhart, Democratic Party representatives in Montana, along with Dan Donovan, a Great Falls attorney, filed a class action lawsuit against Mortenson and asked a federal judge in Missoula to place all proceeds from the purchase of Mortenson's books into a trust to be used for humanitarian purposes. The total of Mortenson's book sales then stood near $5 million. In June 2011, Jean Price dropped out of the suit, because she had never read the book. In Illinois, former school teacher Deborah Netter dropped her Illinois lawsuit against Mortenson in early July 2011, and joined the Montana lawsuit in mid-July. The Montana lawsuit was dismissed on April 30, 2012. In October 2013, an appeal of the dismissal of the class-action lawsuit claiming damages against Greg Mortenson over \"Three Cups of Tea\" was rejected by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\n\n\nA sequel to \"Three Cups of Tea\", titled \"Stones into Schools: Promoting Peace With Books, Not Bombs, In Afghanistan and Pakistan\" , was released on December 1, 2009 by Viking Press. \"Stones Into Schools...\" is a follow-up to Three Cups of Tea and explores the progress of Mortenson's seventeen-year effort to promote female literacy and education, with an emphasis on the expansion of his efforts into Afghanistan, and his expressed admiration to help the U.S. military to promote peace and build relationships with the Afghan shura (leaders).\n\n"}
{"id": "11882170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11882170", "title": "Total electron content", "text": "Total electron content\n\nTotal electron content (or TEC) is an important descriptive quantity for the ionosphere of the Earth. TEC is the total number of electrons integrated between two points, along a tube of one meter squared cross section, i.e., the electron columnar number density. It is often reported in multiples of the so-called TEC unit, defined as TECU=10el/m.\n\nTEC is significant in determining the scintillation and group and phase delays of a radio wave through a medium. Ionospheric TEC is characterized by observing carrier phase delays of received radio signals transmitted from satellites located above the ionosphere, often using Global Positioning System satellites. TEC is strongly affected by solar activity.\n\nThe TEC is path-dependent. By definition, it can be calculated by integrating along the path \"ds\" through the ionosphere with the location-dependent electron density \"n(s)\":\n\nThe \"vertical\" TEC (\"VTEC\") is determined by integration of the electron density on a perpendicular to the ground standing route, the \"slant\" TEC (\"STEC\") is obtained by integrating over any straight path.\n\nTo first order, the ionospheric radio effect is proportional to TEC and inversely proportional to the radio frequency \"f\". The ionospheric phase delay reads:\nwhile the ionospheric group delay has the same magnitude but opposite sign:\nThe proportionality constant \"κ\" reads:\nwhere \"q\", \"m\", r are the electron charge, mass, and radius, respectively; \"c\" is the vacuum speed of light and \"ϵ\" is the vacuum permittivity. The value of the constant is approximately \"κ\" ≈ 40.308193 m·s; the units can be expressed equivalently as m·m·Hz to highlight the cancellation involved in yielding delays τ in meters, given \"f\" in Hz and TEC in m.\n"}
{"id": "11095286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11095286", "title": "Tribe of Shabazz", "text": "Tribe of Shabazz\n\nAccording to the Nation of Islam the Tribe of Shabazz was a supposed ancient Black nation that migrated into central Africa, led by a leader named Shabazz. The concept is found primarily in the writings of Wallace Fard Muhammad and Elijah Muhammad. According to the \"Autobiography of Malcolm X\", all the races except the white race were by-products of the Tribe of Shabazz.\n\nAccording to the Nation of Islam, the Tribe of Shabazz was the only survivor of thirteen tribes that lived on earth 66 trillion years ago. After a rogue scientist blew up the planet, splitting off the moon, the other tribes perished. The Tribe of Shabazz relocated to the rich Nile valley of Egypt and the present seat of the Holy City, Mecca, Arabia.\n\nIt was a technologically advanced society, but one faction was led by Shabazz himself into previously unoccupied areas of central Africa because he wanted them to be hardened. There they evolved Negroid features. Malcolm X in a 1962 speech stated that,\nA scientist named Yakub was a member of the Meccan branch of the tribe and, according to Fard, was the creator of the white race. The Tribe of Shabazz is said to have reached its peak in the year 4084 BC.\n\nThe name may be related to the Arabic words شعب \"sha'b\" 'a people', and عز \"'azz\" 'to be mighty or glorious'.\n\nHowever, the name's etymology is likely Indo-European as there is a similar Persian name, \"Shahbāz\" (شهباز) meaning 'royal falcon' or 'eagle' (a contraction of \"shāh\", \"king\" and \"bāz\" \"hawk, falcon\"), popular among Bosnian, Turkish, Indian, and Pakistani Muslims. \"Shāh\" is from Old Persian \"xšāyaθiya\" \"king\", itself derived from Proto-Indo-Iranian \"*ksayati\" \"he controls\", ultimately from Proto-Indo-European \"tkeh-\" \"to rule, to control land\" (c.f. Greek κταομαι \"ktaómai\" \"to procure, to annex\", Sanskrit क्षत्र \"kṣatra\" \"dominion\"). \"Bāz\" in turn derives from Middle Persian \"vāǰ\".\n\nMalcolm X used the surname Shabazz from 1949 because he believed himself to be a descendant of the tribe. Members of his family have also used the name, which has also been adopted by other persons.\n\nAccording to Karl Evanzz, author of the books \"The Judas Factor: The Plot to Kill Malcolm X\" (1992) and \"The Messenger: The Rise and Fall of Elijah Muhammad\" (1999), Wallace Fard introduced the name Shabazz into Nation of Islam dogma as he was born in Afghanistan in the town of Shinkay in Zabul Province, according to information contained on his World War I draft card. \"Fard\" is a common name in this region. Qalat is the capital of Zabul Province. Shahbaz and Fard christened Elijah Muhammad's brother \"Kallat Muhammad\" when he became a minister in the NOI. Qalandar, a temple named after the Sufi saint Hazrat Lal Shahbaz Qalandar, is located near Fard's birthplace.\n\nThe Shrine of Lal Shahbaz Qalandar, the place where he is buried, is а mosque in Sehwan, Pakistan. Shahbazz is a common name in Pakistan. In \"The Messenger\", Evanzz had originally speculated that Fard was the son of Zared Fard, a Maori whose family had lived in Pakistan. Fard's mother, according to Evanzz, was a Caucasian, the New Zealander Beatrice Dodd.\n\n"}
{"id": "1313859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313859", "title": "U and non-U English", "text": "U and non-U English\n\nU and non-U English usage, with \"U\" standing for \"upper class\", and \"non-U\" representing the aspiring middle classes, was part of the terminology of popular discourse of social dialects (sociolects) in Britain in the 1950s. The debate did not concern itself with the speech of the working classes, who in many instances used the same words as the upper classes. For this reason, the different vocabularies can often appear quite counter-intuitive: the middle classes prefer \"fancy\" or fashionable words, even neologisms and often euphemisms, in attempts to make themselves sound more refined (\"posher than posh\"), while the upper classes in many cases stick to the same plain and traditional words that the working classes also use, as, confident in the security of their social position, they have no need to seek to display refinement.\n\nThe debate was set in motion in 1954 by the British linguist Alan S. C. Ross, professor of linguistics in the University of Birmingham. He coined the terms \"U\" and \"non-U\" in an article, on the differences that social class makes in English language usage, published in a Finnish professional linguistics journal. Though his article included differences in pronunciation and writing styles, it was his remark about differences of vocabulary that received the most attention.\n\nThe English author Nancy Mitford was alerted and immediately took up the usage in an essay, \"The English Aristocracy\", which Stephen Spender published in his magazine \"Encounter\" in 1954. Mitford provided a glossary of terms used by the upper classes (some appear in the table at right), unleashing an anxious national debate about English class-consciousness and snobbery, which involved a good deal of soul-searching that itself provided fuel for the fires. The essay was reprinted, with contributions by Evelyn Waugh, John Betjeman, and others, as well as a \"condensed and simplified version\" of Ross' original article, as \"Noblesse Oblige: an Enquiry into the Identifiable Characteristics of the English Aristocracy\" in 1956. Betjeman's poem \"How to Get on in Society\" concluded the collection.\n\nThe issue of U and non-U could have been taken lightheartedly, but at the time many took it very seriously. This was a reflection of the anxieties of the middle class in Britain of the 1950s, recently emerged from post-war austerities. In particular the media used it as a launch pad for many stories, making much more out of it than was first intended. In the meantime, the idea that one might \"improve oneself\" by adopting the culture and manner of one's \"betters\", instinctively assented to before World War II, was now greeted with resentment.\n\nSome of the terms and the ideas behind them were largely obsolete by the late 20th century, when, in the United Kingdom, reverse snobbery led younger members of the British upper and middle classes to adopt elements of working class speech (see: Estuary English and Mockney). Yet many, if not most, of the differences remain very much current, and therefore perfectly usable as class indicators.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49855", "title": "Umayyad Caliphate", "text": "Umayyad Caliphate\n\nThe Umayyad Caliphate (, translit. \"al-Khilāfatu al-ʾUmawiyyah\"), also spelt , was the second of the four major caliphates established after the death of Muhammad. The caliphate was ruled by the Umayyad dynasty (, \"al-ʾUmawiyyūn\", or , \"Banū ʾUmayya\", \"Sons of Umayya\"), hailing from Mecca. The third Caliph, Uthman ibn Affan (r. 644–656), was a member of the Umayyad clan. The family established dynastic, hereditary rule with Muawiya ibn Abi Sufyan, long-time governor of Syria, who became the fifth Caliph after the end of the First Muslim Civil War in 661. After Mu'awiyah's death in 680, conflicts over the succession resulted in a Second Civil War and power eventually fell into the hands of Marwan I from another branch of the clan. Syria remained the Umayyads' main power base thereafter, and Damascus was their capital.\n\nThe Umayyads continued the Muslim conquests, incorporating the Transoxiana, Sindh, the Maghreb and the Iberian Peninsula (Al-Andalus) into the Muslim world. At its greatest extent, the Umayyad Caliphate covered and 33 million people, making it one of the largest empires in history in both area and proportion of the world's population. The dynasty was eventually overthrown by a rebellion led by the Abbasids in 750. Survivors of the dynasty established themselves in Cordoba in the form of an Emirate and then a Caliphate, lasting until 1031.\n\nThe Umayyad Caliphs were considered too secular by some of their Muslim subjects. Christians, who still constituted a majority of the Caliphate's population, and Jews were allowed to practice their own religion but had to pay a head tax (the jizya) from which Muslims were exempt. There was, however, the Muslim-only zakat tax, which was earmarked explicitly for various welfare progammes.\n\nMuawiya's wife Maysum (Yazid's mother) was also a Christian. The relations between the Muslims and the Christians in the state were stable in this time. The Umayyads were involved in frequent battles with the Christian Byzantines without being concerned with protecting themselves in Syria, which had remained largely Christian like many other parts of the empire. Prominent positions were held by Christians, some of whom belonged to families that had served in Byzantine governments. The employment of Christians was part of a broader policy of religious assimilation that was necessitated by the presence of large Christian populations in the conquered provinces, as in Syria. This policy also boosted Muawiya's popularity and solidified Syria as his power base.\n\nAccording to tradition, the Umayyad family \"(also known as the Banu Abd-Shams)\" and Muhammad both descended from a common ancestor, Abd Manaf ibn Qusai, and they originally came from the city of Mecca in the Hijaz. Muhammad descended from Abd Manāf via his son Hashim, while the Umayyads descended from Abd Manaf via a different son, Abd-Shams, whose son was Umayya. The two families are therefore considered to be different clans (those of Hashim and of Umayya, respectively) of the same tribe (that of the Quraish).\n\nWhile the Umayyads felt deep animosity towards the Hashimites before Muhammad (born 570 CE), their animosity severely deepened after the Battle of Badr of 624 CE. The battle saw three top leaders of the Umayyad clan (Utba ibn Rabi'ah, Walid ibn Utbah and Shaybah) killed by Hashimites (Ali, Hamza ibn ‘Abd al-Muttalib and Ubaydah ibn al-Harith) in a three-on-three melee. This fueled the opposition of Abu Sufyan ibn Harb, the grandson of Umayya, to Muhammad, his family, and Islam as a whole.\n\nAbu Sufyan sought to exterminate the adherents of the new religion by waging another battle against the Medina-based Muslims only a year after the Battle of Badr. He did this to avenge the defeat at Badr. Scholars generally regard the Battle of Uhud (March 625) as the first defeat for the Muslims, since they incurred greater losses than the Meccans. After the battle, Abu Sufyan's wife Hind, who was also the daughter of Utba ibn Rabi'ah, is reported to have cut open the corpse of Hamza, taking out his liver which she then attempted to eat. In 629, however, within five years of the defeat in the Battle of Uhud, Muhammad took control of Mecca and announced a general amnesty for all. Abu Sufyan and his wife Hind embraced Islam on the eve of the conquest of Mecca, as did their son (the future caliph Muawiyah I). However, it has been noted that Muawiya and his family did not become Muslim because of belief in the religion, but rather as a result of the collapse of the pagan society when Mecca was conquered. Banu Umayya had fostered hatred of Islam in their hearts for many years, and they did not suddenly believe in the religion simply because they saw the army of Islam enter Mecca. Rather, it has been noted that Banu Umayya entered the religion of Islam as a \"Trojan horse\" -- instead of seeking to destroy it as an open enemy, they would seek to destroy the religion from within it.\n\nThe Umayyad's ascendancy began when Uthman ibn Affan, who had been an early companian of Muhammad, became the third Caliph. Uthman (644–656) did not establish a dynasty but placed some members of his clan at positions of power. Most notably, he appointed his first cousin, Marwan ibn al-Hakam, as his top advisor, which created a stir among the Hashimite companions of Muhammad, as Marwan (along with his father Al-Hakam ibn Abi al-'As) had been permanently exiled from Medina by Muhammad. Uthman also appointed his half-brother, Walid ibn Uqba, whom Hashimites accused of leading prayer while under the influence of alcohol, governor of Kufa and appointed his foster-brother Abdullah ibn Saad as the Governor of Egypt, replacing Amr ibn al-As. \n\nMost notably, Uthman consolidated Muawiyah's governorship of Syria by granting him control over a larger area. Muawiyah proved a very successful governor. He built up a loyal and disciplined army composed of Syrian Arabs and also befriended Amr ibn al-As, the ousted governor of Egypt. In 639 Muawiyah was appointed as the governor of Syria after the previous governor Abu Ubaidah ibn al-Jarrah died in a plague along with 25,000 other people. In 649 Muawiyah set up a navy manned by Monophysite Christian, Copt and Jacobite Syrian Christian sailors and Muslim troops, who defeated the Byzantine navy at the Battle of the Masts in 655, opening up the Mediterranean.\n\nUthman's rule also saw the relaxing of restrictions instituted by the second Caliph Umar ibn Al-Khattab. Umar had maintained a tight grip on the governors; if he felt that a governor or a commander was becoming attracted to wealth, he had him removed from his position. Umar also ordered Muslim armies to stay in encampments away from cities because he feared that they might get attracted to wealth and turn away from the worship of God. At the time, tribal differences among Arabs, which had been discouraged in Muhammad's life time, resurfaced. Deep-rooted differences between Iraq and Syria, that had belonged to the long-warring Sassanid and Byzantine Empire respectively, also persisted. \n\nConflicts over Uthman's policies led to his murder in 656. Ali, the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad, became caliph and moved his capital from Medina to Kufa. He soon met with resistance from several factions, especially from Muawiyah, the governor of Syria, who wanted Uthman's murderers arrested. Muhammad's wife, Aisha, and two companions of Muhammad, Talhah and Al-Zubayr, supported this demand. The conflict resulted in the First Fitna (\"civil war\") from 656 until 661. Ali was victorious against Aisha in the Battle of the Camel in 656 but the Battle of Siffin (July 657) against Muawiyah was inconclusive. Ali's position als Caliph was weakened when he first agreed to an arbitration but then refused to accept the verdict, that both Ali and Muawiyah should step down and a new Caliph be chosen. In 661, the most vociferous opponents of the arbitration, the Kharijites, tried to kill both rivals; while Ali was killed, the attempt on Muawiyah failed. Ali's son Hasan (the second Imam for the Shias), accepted Muawiyah as Caliph on the condition that he be just to the people and keep them safe and secure, and that he not establish a dynasty to rule after his death. In spite of the latter condition, this marked the beginning of the Umayyad dynasty, with its capital in Damascus.\n\nMuawiyah's personal dynasty, the \"Sufyanids\" (descendants of Abu Sufyan), reigned from 661 to 684, until his grandson Muawiya II. The reign of Muawiyah I was marked by internal security and external expansion. On the internal front, only one major rebellion is recorded, that of Hujr ibn Adi in Kufa. Hujr ibn Adi supported the claims of the descendants of Ali to the caliphate, but his movement was easily suppressed by the governor of Iraq, Ziyad ibn Abi Sufyan. Hujr, who had been a sahabah (companion of Muhammad), was sentenced to death by Muawiya for his support of Ali.\n\nMuawiyah also encouraged peaceful coexistence with the Christian communities of Syria, granting his reign with \"peace and prosperity for Christians and Arabs alike\", and one of his closest advisers was Sarjun, the father of John of Damascus. At the same time, he waged unceasing war against the Byzantine Roman Empire. During his reign, Rhodes and Crete were occupied, and several assaults were launched against Constantinople. After their failure, and faced with a large-scale Christian uprising in the form of the Mardaites, Muawiyah concluded a peace with Byzantium. Muawiyah also oversaw military expansion in North Africa (the foundation of Kairouan) and in Central Asia (the conquest of Kabul, Bukhara, and Samarkand).\n\nMuawiyah was succeeded by his son, Yazid I, in 680. This hereditary accession was opposed by a number of prominent Muslims, most notably Abd-Allah ibn al-Zubayr, son of a companion of Muhammad, and Husayn ibn Ali, the younger son of Ali. The resulting conflict is known as the Second Fitna. Ibn al-Zubayr had fled Medina for Mecca, where he remained in opposition until his death. The people of Kufa invited Husayn to their city and revolt against the Ummayads. However, Yazid I prevented this alliance by having Kufa occupied and Husayn and his family intercepted on their way to Kufa in the Battle of Karbala, in which Husayn and his male family members were killed. Word of Husayn's death fuelled further opposition movements, one centered in Medina and the other around Kharijites in Basra. In 683, Yazid's army suppressed the Medinese opposition at the Battle of al-Harrah and then besieged Mecca. During the campaign, widespread pillaging and the damaging of both the Grand Mosque in Medina and the Kaaba in Mecca caused deep resentment and became a major cause for censure of the Umayyads in later histories of the period.\n\nYazid died while the siege was still in progress, and the Umayyad army returned to Damascus, leaving Ibn al-Zubayr in control of Mecca. Yazid's son, Muawiya II (683–84), initially succeeded him but seems to have never been recognized as caliph outside of Syria. Two factions developed within Syria: the Confederation of Qays, who supported Ibn al-Zubayr, and the Quda'a, who supported Marwan, a descendant of Umayya via Wa'il ibn Umayyah. The partisans of Marwan triumphed at a battle at Marj Rahit, near Damascus, in 684, and Marwan became Caliph shortly thereafter.\n\nMarwan's first task was to assert his authority against the rival claims of Ibn al-Zubayr, who was at this time recognized as caliph throughout most of the Islamic world. Marwan recaptured Egypt for the Umayyads, but died in 685, having reigned for only nine months.\n\nMarwan was succeeded by his son, Abd al-Malik (685–705), who reconsolidated Umayyad control of the caliphate. The early reign of Abd al-Malik was marked by the revolt of Al-Mukhtar, which was based in Kufa. Al-Mukhtar hoped to elevate Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyyah, another son of Ali, to the caliphate, although Ibn al-Hanafiyyah himself may have had no connection to the revolt. The troops of al-Mukhtar engaged in battles both with the Umayyads in 686, defeating them at the river Khazir near Mosul, and with Ibn al-Zubayr in 687, at which time the revolt of al-Mukhtar was crushed. In 691, Umayyad troops reconquered Iraq, and in 692 the same army captured Mecca. Ibn al-Zubayr was killed in the attack.\n\nThe second major event of the early reign of Abd al-Malik was the construction of the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. Although the chronology remains somewhat uncertain, the building seems to have been completed in 692, which means that it was under construction during the conflict with Ibn al-Zubayr. This had led some historians, both medieval and modern, to suggest that the Dome of the Rock was built as a destination for pilgrimage to rival the Kaaba, which was under the control of Ibn al-Zubayr.\n\nAbd al-Malik is credited with centralizing the administration of the Caliphate and with establishing Arabic as its official language. He also introduced a uniquely Muslim coinage, marked by its aniconic decoration, which supplanted the Byzantine and Sasanian coins that had previously been in use. Abd al-Malik also recommenced offensive warfare against Byzantium, defeating the Byzantines at Sebastopolis and recovering control over Armenia and Caucasian Iberia.\n\nFollowing Abd al-Malik's death, his son, Al-Walid I (705–15), became caliph. Al-Walid was also active as a builder, sponsoring the construction of Al-Masjid al-Nabawi in Medina and the Great Mosque of Damascus.\n\nIn the year 712, Muhammad bin Qasim, an Umayyad general, sailed from the Persian Gulf into Sindh in Pakistan and conquered both the Sindh and the Punjab regions along the Indus river. The conquest of Sindh and Punjab, in modern-day Pakistan, although costly, were major gains for the Umayyad Caliphate. However, further gains were halted by the death of Al-Hajjaj bin Yusuf Al-Thaqafi, as after his death Muhammad was called back from his conquests. After this, Muslim chroniclers admit that the Caliph Mahdi \"gave up the project of conquering any part of India\".\n\nA major figure during the reigns of both al-Walid and Abd al-Malik was the Umayyad governor of Iraq, Al-Hajjaj bin Yousef. Many Iraqis remained resistant to Umayyad rule, and to maintain order al-Hajjaj imported Syrian troops, which he housed in a new garrison town, Wasit. These troops became crucial in the suppression of a revolt led by an Iraqi general, Ibn al-Ash'ath, in the early eighth century.\n\nAl-Walid was succeeded by his brother, Sulayman (715–17), whose reign was dominated by a protracted siege of Constantinople. The failure of the siege marked the end of serious Arab ambitions against the Byzantine capital. However, the first two decades of the eighth century witnessed the continuing expansion of the Caliphate, which pushed into the Iberian Peninsula in the west, and into Transoxiana in the Muslim conquest of Transoxiana (under Qutayba ibn Muslim) and northern India in the east.\n\nArab sources claim Qutayba ibn Muslim briefly took Kashgar from China and withdrew after an agreement but modern historians entirely dismiss this claim.\n\nThe Arab Umayyad Caliphate in 715 AD desposed Ikhshid, the king the Fergana Valley, and installed a new king Alutar on the throne. The deposed king fled to Kucha (seat of Anxi Protectorate), and sought Chinese intervention. The Tang dynasty Chinese sent 10,000 troops under Zhang Xiaosong to Ferghana. He defeated Alutar and the Arab occupation force at Namangan and reinstalled Ikhshid on the throne.\n\nThe Tang dynasty Chinese defeated the Umayyad invaders at the Battle of Aksu (717). The Arab Umayyad commander Al-Yashkuri and his army fled to Tashkent after they were defeated.\n\nSulayman was succeeded by his cousin, Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz (717–20), whose position among the Umayyad caliphs is somewhat unusual. He is the only Umayyad ruler to have been recognized by subsequent Islamic tradition as a genuine caliph (\"khalifa\") and not merely as a worldly king (\"malik\").\n\nUmar is honored for his attempt to resolve the fiscal problems attendant upon conversion to Islam. During the Umayyad period, the majority of people living within the caliphate were not Muslim, but Christian, Jewish, Zoroastrian, or members of other small groups. These religious communities were not forced to convert to Islam, but were subject to a tax (\"jizyah\") which was not imposed upon Muslims. This situation may actually have made widespread conversion to Islam undesirable from the point of view of state revenue, and there are reports that provincial governors actively discouraged such conversions. It is not clear how Umar attempted to resolve this situation, but the sources portray him as having insisted on like treatment of Arab and non-Arab (\"mawali\") Muslims, and on the removal of obstacles to the conversion of non-Arabs to Islam.\n\nAfter the death of Umar, another son of Abd al-Malik, Yazid II (720–24) became caliph. Yazid is best known for his \"iconoclastic edict\", which ordered the destruction of Christian images within the territory of the Caliphate. In 720, another major revolt arose in Iraq, this time led by Yazid ibn al-Muhallab.\n\nThe final son of Abd al-Malik to become caliph was Hisham (724–43), whose long and eventful reign was above all marked by the curtailment of military expansion. Hisham established his court at Resafa in northern Syria, which was closer to the Byzantine border than Damascus, and resumed hostilities against the Byzantines, which had lapsed following the failure of the last siege of Constantinople. The new campaigns resulted in a number of successful raids into Anatolia, but also in a major defeat (the Battle of Akroinon), and did not lead to any significant territorial expansion.\n\nFrom the caliphate's north-western African bases, a series of raids on coastal areas of the Visigothic Kingdom paved the way to the permanent occupation of most of Iberia by the Umayyads (starting in 711), and on into south-eastern Gaul (last stronghold at Narbonne in 759). Hisham's reign witnessed the end of expansion in the west, following the defeat of the Arab army by the Franks at the Battle of Tours in 732. In 739 a major Berber Revolt broke out in North Africa, was probably the largest military setback in the reign of Caliph Hisham. From it, emerged some of the first Muslim states outside the Caliphate. It is also regarded as the beginning of Moroccan independence, as Morocco would never again come under the rule of an eastern Caliph or any other foreign power until the 20th century. It was followed by the collapse of Umayyad authority in al-Andalus. In India the Arab armies were defeated by the south Indian Chalukya dynasty and by the north Indian Pratiharas Dynasty in the 8th century and the Arabs were driven out of India.\n\nIn the Caucasus, the confrontation with the Khazars peaked under Hisham: the Arabs established Derbent as a major military base and launched several invasions of the northern Caucasus, but failed to subdue the nomadic Khazars. The conflict was arduous and bloody, and the Arab army even suffered a major defeat at the Battle of Marj Ardabil in 730. Marwan ibn Muhammad, the future Marwan II, finally ended the war in 737 with a massive invasion that is reported to have reached as far as the Volga, but the Khazars remained unsubdued.\n\nHisham suffered still worse defeats in the east, where his armies attempted to subdue both Tokharistan, with its center at Balkh, and Transoxiana, with its center at Samarkand. Both areas had already been partially conquered, but remained difficult to govern. Once again, a particular difficulty concerned the question of the conversion of non-Arabs, especially the Sogdians of Transoxiana. Following the Umayyad defeat in the \"Day of Thirst\" in 724, Ashras ibn 'Abd Allah al-Sulami, governor of Khurasan, promised tax relief to those Sogdians who converted to Islam, but went back on his offer when it proved too popular and threatened to reduce tax revenues.\n\nDiscontent among the Khurasani Arabs rose sharply after the losses suffered in the Battle of the Defile in 731. In 734, al-Harith ibn Surayj led a revolt that received broad backing from Arabs and natives alike, capturing Balkh but failing to take Merv. After this defeat, al-Harith's movement seems to have been dissolved. The problem of the rights of non-Arab Muslims would continue to plague the Umayyads.\n\nHisham was succeeded by Al-Walid II (743–44), the son of Yazid II. Al-Walid is reported to have been more interested in earthly pleasures than in religion, a reputation that may be confirmed by the decoration of the so-called \"desert palaces\" (including Qusayr Amra and Khirbat al-Mafjar) that have been attributed to him. He quickly attracted the enmity of many, both by executing a number of those who had opposed his accession, and by persecuting the Qadariyya.\n\nIn 744, Yazid III, a son of al-Walid I, was proclaimed caliph in Damascus, and his army tracked down and killed al-Walid II. Yazid III has received a certain reputation for piety, and may have been sympathetic to the Qadariyya. He died a mere six months into his reign.\n\nYazid had appointed his brother, Ibrahim, as his successor, but Marwan II (744–50), the grandson of Marwan I, led an army from the northern frontier and entered Damascus in December 744, where he was proclaimed caliph. Marwan immediately moved the capital north to Harran, in present-day Turkey. A rebellion soon broke out in Syria, perhaps due to resentment over the relocation of the capital, and in 746 Marwan razed the walls of Homs and Damascus in retaliation.\n\nMarwan also faced significant opposition from Kharijites in Iraq and Iran, who put forth first Dahhak ibn Qays and then Abu Dulaf as rival caliphs. In 747, Marwan managed to reestablish control of Iraq, but by this time a more serious threat had arisen in Khorasan.\n\nThe Hashimiyya movement (a sub-sect of the Kaysanites Shia), led by the Abbasid family, overthrew the Umayyad caliphate. The Abbasids were members of the Hashim clan, rivals of the Umayyads, but the word \"Hashimiyya\" seems to refer specifically to Abu Hashim, a grandson of Ali and son of Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyya. According to certain traditions, Abu Hashim died in 717 in Humeima in the house of Muhammad ibn Ali, the head of the Abbasid family, and before dying named Muhammad ibn Ali as his successor. This tradition allowed the Abbasids to rally the supporters of the failed revolt of Mukhtar, who had represented themselves as the supporters of Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyya.\n\nBeginning around 719, Hashimiyya missions began to seek adherents in Khurasan. Their campaign was framed as one of proselytism (dawah). They sought support for a \"member of the family\" of Muhammad, without making explicit mention of the Abbasids. These missions met with success both among Arabs and non-Arabs (mawali), although the latter may have played a particularly important role in the growth of the movement.\n\nAround 746, Abu Muslim assumed leadership of the Hashimiyya in Khurasan. In 747, he successfully initiated an open revolt against Umayyad rule, which was carried out under the sign of the black flag. He soon established control of Khurasan, expelling its Umayyad governor, Nasr ibn Sayyar, and dispatched an army westwards. Kufa fell to the Hashimiyya in 749, the last Umayyad stronghold in Iraq, Wasit, was placed under siege, and in November of the same year Abul Abbas as-Saffah was recognized as the new caliph in the mosque at Kufa. At this point Marwan mobilized his troops from Harran and advanced toward Iraq. In January 750 the two forces met in the Battle of the Zab, and the Umayyads were defeated. Damascus fell to the Abbasids in April, and in August, Marwan was killed in Egypt.\n\nThe victors desecrated the tombs of the Umayyads in Syria, sparing only that of Umar II, and most of the remaining members of the Umayyad family were tracked down and killed. When Abbasids declared amnesty for members of the Umayyad family, eighty gathered to receive pardons, and all were massacred. One grandson of Hisham, Abd al-Rahman I, survived, escaped across North Africa, and established an emirate in Moorish Iberia (Al-Andalus). In a claim unrecognized outside of al-Andalus, he maintained that the Umayyad Caliphate, the true, authentic caliphate, more legitimate than the Abbasids, was continued through him in Córdoba. It was to survive for centuries.\n\nPrevité-Orton argues that the reasons for the decline of the Umayyads was the rapid expansion of Islam. During Umayyad period, mass conversions brought Persians, Berbers, Copts, and Aramaics to Islam. These \"mawalis\" (enslaved) were often better educated and more civilised than their Arab invaders. The new converts, on the basis of equality of all Muslims, transformed the political landscape. Previté-Orton also argues that the feud between Syria and Iraq further weakened the empire.\n\nThe first four caliphs created a stable administration for the empire, following the practices and administrative institutions of the Byzantine Empire which had ruled the same region previously. These consisted of four main governmental branches: political affairs, military affairs, tax collection, and religious administration. Each of these was further subdivided into more branches, offices, and departments.\n\nGeographically, the empire was divided into several provinces, the borders of which changed numerous times during the Umayyad reign. Each province had a governor appointed by the caliph. The governor was in charge of the religious officials, army leaders, police, and civil administrators in his province. Local expenses were paid for by taxes coming from that province, with the remainder each year being sent to the central government in Damascus. As the central power of the Umayyad rulers waned in the later years of the dynasty, some governors neglected to send the extra tax revenue to Damascus and created great personal fortunes.\n\nAs the empire grew, the number of qualified Arab workers was too small to keep up with the rapid expansion of the empire. Therefore, Muawiya allowed many of the local government workers in conquered provinces to keep their jobs under the new Umayyad government. Thus, much of the local government's work was recorded in Greek, Coptic, and Persian. It was only during the reign of Abd al-Malik that government work began to be regularly recorded in Arabic.\n\nThe Byzantine and Sassanid Empires relied on money economies before the Muslim conquest, and that system remained in effect during the Umayyad period. Byzantine copper coins were used until 658, while Byzantine gold coins were still in use until the monetary reforms c.700. In addition to this, the Umayyad government began to mint its own coins in Damascus, these were initially similar to pre-existing coins but evolved in an independent direction. These were the first coins minted by a Muslim government in history. Gold coins were called dinars while silver coins were called dirhams.\n\nTo assist the Caliph in administration there were six Boards at the Centre: Diwan al-Kharaj (the Board of Revenue), Diwan al-Rasa'il (the Board of Correspondence), Diwan al-Khatam (the Board of Signet), Diwan al-Barid (the Board of Posts), Diwan al-Qudat (the Board of Justice) and Diwan al-Jund (the Military Board)\n\nThe Central Board of Revenue administered the entire finances of the empire. It also imposed and collected taxes and disbursed revenue.\n\nA regular Board of Correspondence was established under the Umayyads. It issued state missives and circulars to the Central and Provincial Officers. It co-ordinated the work of all Boards and dealt with all correspondence as the chief secretariat.\n\nIn order to check forgery, Diwan al-Khatam (Bureau of Registry), a kind of state chancellery, was instituted by Mu'awiyah. It used to make and preserve a copy of each official document before sealing and despatching the original to its destination. Thus in the course of time a state archive developed in Damascus by the Umayyads under Abd al-Malik. This department survived till the middle of the Abbasid period.\n\nMu'awiyah introduced postal service, Abd al-Malik extended it throughout his empire, and Walid made full use of it. The Umayyad Caliph Abd al-Malik developed a regular postal service. Umar bin Abdul-Aziz developed it further by building caravanserais at stages along the Khurasan highway. Relays of horses were used for the conveyance of dispatches between the caliph and his agents and officials posted in the provinces. The main highways were divided into stages of each and each stage had horses, donkeys or camels ready to carry the post. Primarily the service met the needs of Government officials, but travellers and their important dispatches were also benefitted by the system. The postal carriages were also used for the swift transport of troops. They were able to carry fifty to a hundred men at a time. Under Governor Yusuf bin Umar, the postal department of Iraq cost 4,000,000 dirhams a year.\n\nIn the early period of Islam, justice was administered by Muhammad and the orthodox Caliphs in person. After the expansion of the Islamic State, Umar al-Faruq had to separate judiciary from the general administration and appointed the first qadi in Egypt as early as AD 643/23 AH. After 661, a series of judges succeeded one after another in Egypt under the Umayyad Caliphs, Hisham and Walid II.\n\nThe Diwan of Umar, assigning annuities to all Arabs and to the Muslim soldiers of other races, underwent a change in the hands of the Umayyads. The Umayyads meddled with the register and the recipients regarded pensions as the subsistence allowance even without being in active service. Hisham reformed it and paid only to those who participated in battle.\nOn the pattern of the Byzantine system the Umayyads reformed their army organization in general and divided it into five corps: the centre, two wings, vanguards and rearguards, following the same formation while on march or on a battle field. Marwan II (740–50) abandoned the old division and introduced Kurdus (cohort), a small compact body.\nThe Umayyad troops were divided into three divisions: infantry, cavalry and artillery. Arab troops were dressed and armed in Greek fashion. The Umayyad cavalry used plain and round saddles. The artillery used arradah (ballista), manjaniq (the mangonel) and dabbabah or kabsh (the battering ram). The heavy engines, siege machines and baggage were carried on camels behind the army.\n\nThe Umayyad Caliphate exhibited four main social classes:\n\nThe Muslim Arabs were at the top of the society and saw it as their duty to rule over the conquered areas. Despite the fact that Islam teaches the equality of all Muslims, the Arab Muslims held themselves in higher esteem than Muslim non-Arabs and generally did not mix with other Muslims.\n\nThe inequality of Muslims in the empire led to social unrest. As Islam spread, more and more of the Muslim population was constituted of non-Arabs. This caused tension as the new converts were not given the same rights as Muslim Arabs. Also, as conversions increased, tax revenues from non-Muslims decreased to dangerous lows. These issues continued to grow until they helped cause the Abbasid Revolt in the 740s.\n\nNon-Muslim groups in the Umayyad Caliphate, which included Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, and pagan Berbers, were called dhimmis. They were given a legally protected status as second-class citizens as long as they accepted and acknowledged the political supremacy of the ruling Muslims, i.e. paid a tax, known as jizya, which the Muslims did not have to pay, who would instead pay the zakat tax. If they converted to Islam they would cease paying jizya and would instead pay zakat. They were allowed to have their own courts, and were given freedom of their religion within the empire. Although they could not hold the highest public offices in the empire, they had many bureaucratic positions within the government. Christians and Jews still continued to produce great theological thinkers within their communities, but as time wore on, many of the intellectuals converted to Islam, leading to a lack of great thinkers in the non-Muslim communities.\n\nCurrently many Sunni scholars agree that Muawiyah I's family, including his progenitors, Abu Sufyan ibn Harb and Hind bint Utbah, were originally opponents of Islam and particularly of Muhammad until the Conquest of Mecca.\n\nHowever many early history books like the Islamic Conquest of Syria Fatuhusham by al-Imam al-Waqidi state that after the conversion to Islam Muawiyah I's father Abu Sufyan ibn Harb and his brothers Yazid ibn Abi Sufyan were appointed as commanders in the Muslim armies by Muhammad. Muawiyah I, Abu Sufyan ibn Harb, Yazid ibn Abi Sufyan and Hind bint Utbah fought in the Battle of Yarmouk. The defeat of the Byzantine Emperor Heraclius at the Battle of Yarmouk opened the way for the Muslim expansion into Jerusalem and Syria.\n\nIn 639, Muawiyah was appointed as the governor of Syria by the second caliph Umar after his brother the previous governor Yazid ibn Abi Sufyan and the governor before him Abu Ubaidah ibn al-Jarrah died in a plague along with 25,000 other people. 'Amr ibn al-'As was sent to take on the Roman Army in Egypt. Fearing an attack by the Romans, Umar asked Muawiyah to defend against a Roman attack.\n\nWith limited resources Muawiyah went about creating allies. Muawiyah married Maysum the daughter of the chief of the Kalb tribe, that was a large Jacobite Christian Arab tribe in Syria. His marriage to Maysum was politically motivated. The Kalb tribe had remained largely neutral when the Muslims first went into Syria. After the plague that killed much of the Muslim Army in Syria, by marrying Maysum, Muawiyah started to use the Jacobite Christians, against the Romans. Muawiya's wife Maysum (Yazid's mother) was also a Jacobite Christian. With limited resources and the Byzantine just over the border, Muawiyah worked in cooperation with the local Christian population. To stop Byzantine harassment from the sea during the Arab-Byzantine Wars, in 649 Muawiyah set up a navy; manned by Monophysitise Christians, Copts and Jacobite Syrian Christians sailors and Muslim troops.\n\nMuawiya was one of the first to realize the full importance of having a navy; as long as the Byzantine fleet could sail the Mediterranean unopposed, the coast line of Syria, Palestine and Egypt would never be safe. Muawiyah along with Adbullah ibn Sa'd the new governor of Egypt successfully persuaded Uthman to give them permission to construct a large fleet in the dockyards of Egypt and Syria\n\nThe first real naval engagement between the Muslim and the Byzantine navy was the so-called Battle of the Masts (Dhat al-sawari) or battle of Phoenix off the Lycian coast in 655. This resulted in the defeat of the Byzantine navy at the Battle of the Masts in 655, opening up the Mediterranean.\n\nMuawiyah I came to power after the death of Ali and established a dynasty.\n\nThe Umayyad caliphate was marked both by territorial expansion and by the administrative and cultural problems that such expansion created. Despite some notable exceptions, the Umayyads tended to favor the rights of the old Arab families, and in particular their own, over those of newly converted Muslims (mawali). Therefore, they held to a less universalist conception of Islam than did many of their rivals. As G.R. Hawting has written, \"Islam was in fact regarded as the property of the conquering aristocracy.\"\n\nDuring the period of the Umayyads, Arabic became the administrative language. State documents and currency were issued in the language. Mass conversions brought a large influx of Muslims to the caliphate. The Umayyads also constructed famous buildings such as the Dome of the Rock at Jerusalem, and the Umayyad Mosque at Damascus.\n\nAccording to one common view, the Umayyads transformed the caliphate from a religious institution (during the rashidun) to a dynastic one. However, the Umayyad caliphs do seem to have understood themselves as the representatives of God on earth, and to have been responsible for the \"definition and elaboration of God's ordinances, or in other words the definition or elaboration of Islamic law.\"\n\nThe Umayyads have met with a largely negative reception from later Islamic historians, who have accused them of promoting a kingship (\"mulk\", a term with connotations of tyranny) instead of a true caliphate (\"khilafa\"). In this respect it is notable that the Umayyad caliphs referred to themselves not as \"khalifat rasul Allah\" (\"successor of the messenger of God\", the title preferred by the tradition), but rather as \"khalifat Allah\" (\"deputy of God\"). The distinction seems to indicate that the Umayyads \"regarded themselves as God's representatives at the head of the community and saw no need to share their religious power with, or delegate it to, the emergent class of religious scholars.\" In fact, it was precisely this class of scholars, based largely in Iraq, that was responsible for collecting and recording the traditions that form the primary source material for the history of the Umayyad period. In reconstructing this history, therefore, it is necessary to rely mainly on sources, such as the histories of Tabari and Baladhuri, that were written in the Abbasid court at Baghdad.\n\nModern Arab nationalism regards the period of the Umayyads as part of the Arab Golden Age which it sought to emulate and restore.\nThis is particularly true of Syrian nationalists and the present-day state of Syria, centered like that of the Umayyads on Damascus.\n\nThe Umayyad dynastic color was white, after the banner of Muawiya ibn Abi Sufyan; it is now one of the four Pan-Arab colors which appear in various combinations on the flags of most Arab countries.\n\nMany Muslims criticized the Umayyads for having too many non-Muslim, former Roman administrators in their government. St John of Damascus was also a high administrator in the Umayyad administration. As the Muslims took over cities, they left the peoples political representatives and the Roman tax collectors and the administrators. The taxes to the central government were calculated and negotiated by the peoples political representatives. The Central government got paid for the services it provided and the local government got the money for the services it provided. Many Christian cities also used some of the taxes on maintain their churches and run their own organizations. Later the Umayyads were criticized by some Muslims for not reducing the taxes of the people who converted to Islam. These new converts continued to pay the same taxes that were previously negotiated.\n\nLater when Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz came to power, he reduced these taxes. He is therefore praised as one of the greatest Muslim rulers after the four Rightly Guided Caliphs. Imam Abu Muhammad Adbullah ibn Abdul Hakam who lived in 829 and wrote a biography on Umar Ibn Adbul Aziz stated that the reduction in these taxes stimulated the economy and created wealth but it also reduced the government budget and this then led to a reduction in the defense budget.\n\nOnly Umayyad ruler (Caliphs of Damascus), Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz, is unanimously praised by Sunni sources for his devout piety and justice. In his efforts to spread Islam he established liberties for the \"Mawali\" by abolishing the jizya tax for converts to Islam. Imam Abu Muhammad Adbullah ibn Abdul Hakam stated that Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz also stopped the personal allowance offered to his relatives stating that he could only give them an allowance if he gave an allowance to everyone else in the empire. Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz was later poisoned in the year 720. When successive governments tried to reverse Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz's tax policies it created rebellion.\n\nThe negative view of the Umayyads by Shias is briefly expressed in the Shi'a book \"Sulh al-Hasan\". According to Shia hadiths, which are not considered authentic by Sunnis, Ali described them as the worst Fitna. In Shia sources, the Umayyad Caliphate is widely described as \"tyrannical, anti-Islamic and godless\". Shias point out that the founder of the dynasty, Muawiyah, declared himself a caliph in 657 and went to war against Muhammad's son-in-law and cousin, ruling caliph Ali, clashing at the Battle of Siffin. Muawiyah also declared his son, Yazid, as a successor in breach of a treaty with Hassan, Muhammad's grandson. Another of Muhammad's grandsons, Husayn ibn Ali, would be killed by Yazid in the Battle of Karbala. Further Shia Imams, such as Muhammad's great-grandson, Ali ibn Husayn Zayn al-Abidin would be killed at the hands of ruling Umayyad caliphs. Umayyads also ordered regular cursing of Ali and his progeny in the state mosques.\n\nThe book \"Al Muwatta\" by Imam Malik was written in the early Abbasid period in Madina. It does not contain any anti-Umayyad content because it was more concerned with what the Quran and what Muhammad said and was not a history book on the Umayyads.\n\nEven the earliest pro-Shia accounts of al-Masudi are more balanced. al-Masudi in Ibn Hisham is the earliest Shia account of Muawiyah. He recounted that Muawiyah spent a great deal of time in prayer, in spite of the burden of managing a large empire.\n\nAz-Zuhri stated that Muawiya led the Hajj Pilgrimage with the people twice during his era as caliph.\n\nBooks written in the early Abbasid period like al-Baladhuri's \"The Origins of the Islamic State\" provide a more accurate and balanced history. Ibn Hisham also wrote about these events.\n\nMuch of the anti-Umayyad literature started to appear in the later Abbasid period in Persia.\n\nAfter killing off most of the Umayyads and destroying the graves of the Umayyad rulers apart from Muawiyah and Umar ibn Adb al-Aziz, the history books written during the later Abbasid period are more anti-Umayyad. The Abbasids justified their rule by saying that their ancestor Abbas ibn Abd al-Muttalib was a cousin of Muhammad.\n\nThe books written later in the Abbasid period in Iran are more anti-Umayyad. Iran was Sunni at the time. There was much anti-Arab feeling in Iran after the fall of the Persian empire. This anti-Arab feeling also influenced the books on Islamic history. Al-Tabri was also written in Iran during that period. Al-Tabri was a huge collection including all the texts that he could find, from all the sources. It was a collection preserving everything for future generations to codify and for future generations to judge whether the histories were true or false.\n\nAsked for an explanation of the prophecies in the Book of Revelation (12:3), `Abdu'l-Bahá suggests in Some Answered Questions that the \"great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads,\" refers to the Umayyad caliphs who \"rose against the religion of Prophet Muhammad and against the reality of Ali\".\n\nThe seven heads of the dragon is symbolic of the seven provinces of the lands dominated by the Umayyads: Damascus, Persia, Arabia, Egypt, Africa, Andalusia, and Transoxania. The ten horns represent the ten names of the leaders of the Umayyad dynasty; Abu Sufyan, Muawiya, Yazid, Marwan, Abd al-Malik, Walid, Sulayman, Umar, Hisham, and Ibrahim. Some names were re-used, as in the case of Yazid II and Yazid III, which were not counted for this interpretation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "89988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89988", "title": "W. E. B. Du Bois", "text": "W. E. B. Du Bois\n\nWilliam Edward Burghardt Du Bois ( ; February 23, 1868 – August 27, 1963) was an American sociologist, historian, civil rights activist, Pan-Africanist, author, writer and editor. Born in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, Du Bois grew up in a relatively tolerant and integrated community. After completing graduate work at the University of Berlin and Harvard, where he was the first African American to earn a doctorate, he became a professor of history, sociology and economics at Atlanta University. Du Bois was one of the founders of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1909.\n\nDu Bois rose to national prominence as the leader of the Niagara Movement, a group of African-American activists who wanted equal rights for blacks. Du Bois and his supporters opposed the Atlanta compromise, an agreement crafted by Booker T. Washington which provided that Southern blacks would work and submit to white political rule, while Southern whites guaranteed that blacks would receive basic educational and economic opportunities. Instead, Du Bois insisted on full civil rights and increased political representation, which he believed would be brought about by the African-American intellectual elite. He referred to this group as the Talented Tenth and believed that African Americans needed the chances for advanced education to develop its leadership.\n\nRacism was the main target of Du Bois's polemics, and he strongly protested against lynching, Jim Crow laws, and discrimination in education and employment. His cause included people of color everywhere, particularly Africans and Asians in colonies. He was a proponent of Pan-Africanism and helped organize several Pan-African Congresses to fight for the independence of African colonies from European powers. Du Bois made several trips to Europe, Africa and Asia. After World War I, he surveyed the experiences of American black soldiers in France and documented widespread prejudice in the United States military.\n\nDu Bois was a prolific author. His collection of essays, \"The Souls of Black Folk\", was a seminal work in African-American literature; and his 1935 magnum opus, \"Black Reconstruction in America\", challenged the prevailing orthodoxy that blacks were responsible for the failures of the Reconstruction Era. Borrowing a phrase from Frederick Douglass, he popularized the use of the term color line to represent the injustice of the separate but equal doctrine prevalent in American social and political life. He opens \"The Souls of Black Folk\" with the central thesis of much of his life's work: \"The problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color-line.\"\n\nHe wrote one of the first scientific treatises in the field of American sociology, and he published three autobiographies, each of which contains essays on sociology, politics and history. In his role as editor of the NAACP's journal \"The Crisis\", he published many influential pieces. Du Bois believed that capitalism was a primary cause of racism, and he was generally sympathetic to socialist causes throughout his life. He was an ardent peace activist and advocated nuclear disarmament. The United States' Civil Rights Act, embodying many of the reforms for which Du Bois had campaigned his entire life, was enacted a year after his death.\n\nWilliam Edward Burghardt Du Bois was born on February 23, 1868, in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, to Alfred and Mary Silvina (née Burghardt) Du Bois. Mary Silvina Burghardt's family was part of the very small free black population of Great Barrington and had long owned land in the state. She was descended from Dutch, African and English ancestors. William Du Bois's maternal great-great-grandfather was Tom Burghardt, a slave (born in West Africa around 1730) who was held by the Dutch colonist Conraed Burghardt. Tom briefly served in the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, which may have been how he gained his freedom during the 18th century. His son Jack Burghardt was the father of Othello Burghardt, who was the father of Mary Silvina Burghardt.\n\nWilliam Du Bois claimed Elizabeth Freeman as his relative and wrote that she married Jack Burghardt. But Freeman was 20 years older than Burghardt, and no record of such a marriage has been found. It may have been Freeman's daughter, Betsy Humphrey, who married Burghardt after her first husband, Jonah Humphrey, left the area \"around 1811\", and after Burghardt's first wife died ( 1810). If so, Freeman would have been William Du Bois's step-great-great-grandmother. Anecdotal evidence supports Humphrey's marrying Burghardt; a close relationship of some form is likely.\n\nWilliam Du Bois's paternal great-grandfather was James Du Bois of Poughkeepsie, New York, an ethnic French-American of Huguenot origin who fathered several children with slave women. One of James' mixed-race sons was Alexander, who was born on Long Cay in the Bahamas in 1803; in 1810 he immigrated to the United States with his father. He traveled and worked in Haiti, where he fathered a son, Alfred, with a mistress. Alexander returned to Connecticut, leaving Alfred in Haiti with his mother.\n\nSometime before 1860, Alfred Du Bois emigrated to the United States, settling in Massachusetts. He married Mary Silvina Burghardt on February 5, 1867, in Housatonic. Alfred left Mary in 1870, two years after their son William was born. Mary Burghardt Du Bois moved with her son back to her parents' house in Great Barrington until he was five. She worked to support her family (receiving some assistance from her brother and neighbors), until she suffered a stroke in the early 1880s. She died in 1885.\n\nGreat Barrington had a majority European American community, who treated Du Bois generally well. He attended the local integrated public school and played with white schoolmates. As an adult, he wrote about racism which he felt as a fatherless child and the experience of being a minority in the town. But teachers recognized his ability and encouraged his intellectual pursuits, and his rewarding experience with academic studies led him to believe that he could use his knowledge to empower African Americans. Du Bois graduated from the town's Searles High School. When Du Bois decided to attend college, the congregation of his childhood church, the First Congregational Church of Great Barrington, raised the money for his tuition.\n\nRelying on money donated by neighbors, Du Bois attended Fisk University, a historically black college in Nashville, Tennessee, from 1885 to 1888. His travel to and residency in the South was Du Bois's first experience with Southern racism, which at the time encompassed Jim Crow laws, bigotry, suppression of black voting, and lynchings; the lattermost reached a peak in the next decade. After receiving a bachelor's degree from Fisk, he attended Harvard College (which did not accept course credits from Fisk) from 1888 to 1890, where he was strongly influenced by his professor William James, prominent in American philosophy. Du Bois paid his way through three years at Harvard with money from summer jobs, an inheritance, scholarships, and loans from friends. In 1890, Harvard awarded Du Bois his second bachelor's degree, \"cum laude\", in history. In 1891, Du Bois received a scholarship to attend the sociology graduate school at Harvard.\n\nIn 1892, Du Bois received a fellowship from the John F. Slater Fund for the Education of Freedmen to attend the University of Berlin for graduate work. While a student in Berlin, he traveled extensively throughout Europe. He came of age intellectually in the German capital while studying with some of that nation's most prominent social scientists, including Gustav von Schmoller, Adolph Wagner, and Heinrich von Treitschke. After returning from Europe, Du Bois completed his graduate studies; in 1895 he was the first African American to earn a Ph.D. from Harvard University.\n\nIn the summer of 1894, Du Bois received several job offers, including one from the prestigious Tuskegee Institute; he accepted a teaching job at Wilberforce University in Ohio. At Wilberforce, Du Bois was strongly influenced by Alexander Crummell, who believed that ideas and morals are necessary tools to effect social change. While at Wilberforce, Du Bois married Nina Gomer, one of his students, on May 12, 1896.\n\nAfter two years at Wilberforce, Du Bois accepted a one-year research job from the University of Pennsylvania as an \"assistant in sociology\" in the summer of 1896. He performed sociological field research in Philadelphia's African-American neighborhoods, research which formed the foundation for his landmark study, \"The Philadelphia Negro\", published in 1899 while he was teaching at Atlanta University. It was the first case study of a black community in the United States. By the 1890s, Philadelphia's black neighborhoods had a negative reputation in terms of crime, poverty, and mortality. Du Bois's book undermined the stereotypes with empirical evidence and shaped his approach to segregation and its negative impact on black lives and reputations. The results led Du Bois to realize that racial integration was the key to democratic equality in American cities.\n\nWhile taking part in the American Negro Academy (ANA) in 1897, Du Bois presented a paper in which he rejected Frederick Douglass's plea for black Americans to integrate into white society. He wrote: \"we are Negroes, members of a vast historic race that from the very dawn of creation has slept, but half awakening in the dark forests of its African fatherland\". In the August 1897 issue of \"The Atlantic Monthly\", Du Bois published \"Strivings of the Negro People\", his first work aimed at the general public, in which he enlarged upon his thesis that African Americans should embrace their African heritage while contributing to American society.\n\nIn July 1897, Du Bois left Philadelphia and took a professorship in history and economics at the historically black Atlanta University in Georgia. His first major academic work was his book \"The Philadelphia Negro\" (1899), a detailed and comprehensive sociological study of the African-American people of Philadelphia, based on the field work he did in 1896–1897. The work was a breakthrough in scholarship because it was the first scientific study of African Americans and a major contribution to early scientific sociology in the U.S. In the study, Du Bois coined the phrase \"the submerged tenth\" to describe the black underclass. Later in 1903 he popularized the term, the \"Talented Tenth\", applied to society's elite class. Du Bois's terminology reflected his opinion that the elite of a nation, both black and white, were critical to achievements in culture and progress. Du Bois wrote in this period in a dismissive way of the underclass, describing them as \"lazy\" or \"unreliable\", but – in contrast to other scholars – he attributed many of their societal problems to the ravages of slavery.\n\nDu Bois's output at Atlanta University was prodigious, in spite of a limited budget: he produced numerous social science papers and annually hosted the Atlanta Conference of Negro Problems. Du Bois also received grants from the U.S. government to prepare reports about African-American workforce and culture. His students considered him to be a brilliant, but aloof and strict, teacher.\n\nIn 1900 Du Bois attended the First Pan-African Conference, held in London from July 23 to 25. (This was just before the Paris Exhibition of 1900 \"to allow tourists of African descent to attend both events\".) It was organized by men from the Caribbean: Haitians Anténor Firmin and Bénito Sylvain and Trinidadian barrister Henry Sylvester Williams. Du Bois played a leading role in drafting a letter (\"Address to the Nations of the World\") to European leaders appealing to them to struggle against racism, to grant colonies in Africa and the West Indies the right to self-government and to demand political and other rights for African Americans. By this time, southern states were passing new laws and constitutions to disfranchise most African Americans, an exclusion from the political system that lasted into the 1960s.\n\nAt the conclusion of the conference, delegates unanimously adopted the \"Address to the Nations of the World\", and sent it to various heads of state where people of African descent were living and suffering oppression. The address implored the United States and the imperial European nations to \"acknowledge and protect the rights of people of African descent\" and to respect the integrity and independence of \"the free Negro States of Abyssinia, Liberia, Haiti, etc.\" It was signed by Bishop Alexander Walters (President of the Pan-African Association), the Canadian Rev. Henry B. Brown (Vice-President), Williams (General Secretary) and Du Bois (Chairman of the Committee on the Address). The address included Du Bois's observation, \"The problem of the Twentieth Century is the problem of the colour-line.\" He used this again three years later in the \"Forethought\" of his book, \"The Souls of Black Folk\" (1903).\n\nIn the first decade of the new century, Du Bois emerged as a spokesperson for his race, second only to Booker T. Washington. Washington was the director of the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, and wielded tremendous influence within the African-American and white communities. Washington was the architect of the Atlanta Compromise, an unwritten deal he struck in 1895 with Southern white leaders who dominated state governments after Reconstruction. Essentially the agreement provided that Southern blacks, who overwhelmingly lived in rural communities, would submit to the current discrimination, segregation, disenfranchisement, and non-unionized employment; that Southern whites would permit blacks to receive a basic education, some economic opportunities, and justice within the legal system; and that Northern whites would invest in Southern enterprises and fund black educational charities.\n\nDespite initially sending congratulations to Washington for his Atlanta Exposition Speech, Du Bois later came to oppose Washington's plan, along with many other African Americans, including Archibald H. Grimke, Kelly Miller, James Weldon Johnson and Paul Laurence Dunbar – representatives of the class of educated blacks that Du Bois would later call the \"talented tenth\". Du Bois felt that African Americans should fight for equal rights and higher opportunities, rather than passively submit to the segregation and discrimination of Washington's Atlanta Compromise.\n\nDu Bois was inspired to greater activism by the lynching of Sam Hose, which occurred near Atlanta in 1899. Hose was tortured, burned and hung by a mob of two thousand whites. When walking through Atlanta to discuss the lynching with newspaper editor Joel Chandler Harris, Du Bois encountered Hose's burned knuckles in a storefront display. The episode stunned Du Bois, and he resolved that \"one could not be a calm, cool, and detached scientist while Negroes were lynched, murdered, and starved\". Du Bois realized that \"the cure wasn't simply telling people the truth, it was inducing them to act on the truth\".\n\nIn 1901, Du Bois wrote a review critical of Washington's autobiography \"Up from Slavery\", which he later expanded and published to a wider audience as the essay \"Of Mr. Booker T. Washington and Others\" in \"The Souls of Black Folk\". Later in life, Du Bois regretted having been critical of Washington in those essays. One of the contrasts between the two leaders was their approach to education: Washington felt that African-American schools should focus primarily on industrial education topics such as agricultural and mechanical skills, to prepare southern blacks for the opportunities in the rural areas where most lived. Du Bois felt that black schools should focus more on liberal arts and academic curriculum (including the classics, arts, and humanities), because liberal arts were required to develop a leadership elite. However, as sociologist E. Franklin Frazier and economists Gunnar Myrdal and Thomas Sowell have argued, such disagreement over education was a minor point of difference between Washington and Du Bois; both men acknowledged the importance of the form of education that the other emphasized. Sowell has also argued that, despite genuine disagreements between the two leaders, the supposed animosity between Washington and Du Bois actually formed among their followers, not between Washington and Du Bois themselves. Du Bois himself also made this observation in an interview published in \"The Atlantic Monthly\" in November 1965.\n\nIn 1905, Du Bois and several other African-American civil rights activists – including Fredrick L. McGhee, Jesse Max Barber and William Monroe Trotter – met in Canada, near Niagara Falls. There they wrote a declaration of principles opposing the Atlanta Compromise, and incorporated as the Niagara Movement in 1906.\n\nDu Bois and the other \"Niagarites\" wanted to publicize their ideals to other African Americans, but most black periodicals were owned by publishers sympathetic to Washington. Du Bois bought a printing press and started publishing \"Moon Illustrated Weekly\" in December 1905. It was the first African-American illustrated weekly, and Du Bois used it to attack Washington's positions, but the magazine lasted only for about eight months. Du Bois soon founded and edited another vehicle for his polemics, \"\", which debuted in 1907. Freeman H. M. Murray and Lafayette M. Hershaw served as \"The Horizon\"'s co-editors.\n\nThe Niagarites held a second conference in August 1906, in celebration of the 100th anniversary of abolitionist John Brown's birth, at the West Virginia site of Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry. Reverdy C. Ransom spoke and addressed the fact that Washington's primary goal was to prepare blacks for employment in their current society: \"Today, two classes of Negroes, ... are standing at the parting of the ways. The one counsels patient submission to our present humiliations and degradations; ... The other class believe that it should not submit to being humiliated, degraded, and remanded to an inferior place ... it does not believe in bartering its manhood for the sake of gain.\"\n\nIn an effort to portray the genius and humanity of the black race, Du Bois published \"The Souls of Black Folk\" (1903), a collection of 14 essays. James Weldon Johnson said the book's effect on African Americans was comparable to that of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\". The introduction famously proclaimed that \"the problem of the Twentieth Century is the problem of the color line\". Each chapter begins with two epigraphs – one from a white poet, and one from a black spiritual – to demonstrate intellectual and cultural parity between black and white cultures. A major theme of the work was the double consciousness faced by African Americans: being both American and black. This was a unique identity which, according to Du Bois, had been a handicap in the past, but could be a strength in the future: \"Henceforth, the destiny of the race could be conceived as leading neither to assimilation nor separatism but to proud, enduring hyphenation.\"\n\nJonathon S. Kahn in \"Divine Discontent: The Religious Imagination of Du Bois\" shows how Du Bois, in his \"The Souls of Black Folk\", represents an exemplary text of pragmatic religious naturalism. On page 12 Kahn writes: \"Du Bois needs to be understood as an African American pragmatic religious naturalist. By this I mean that, like Du Bois the American traditional pragmatic religious naturalism, which runs through William James, George Santayana and John Dewey, seeks religion without metaphysical foundations.\" Kahn's interpretation of religious naturalism is very broad but he relates it to specific thinkers. Du Bois's anti-metaphysical viewpoint places him in the sphere of religious naturalism as typified by William James and others.\n\nTwo calamities in the autumn of 1906 shocked African Americans, and they contributed to strengthening support for Du Bois's struggle for civil rights to prevail over Booker T. Washington's accommodationism. First, President Teddy Roosevelt dishonorably discharged 167 black soldiers because they were accused of crimes as a result of the Brownsville Affair. Many of the discharged soldiers had served for 20 years and were near retirement. Second, in September, riots broke out in Atlanta, precipitated by unfounded allegations of black men assaulting white women. This was a catalyst for racial tensions based on a job shortage and employers playing black workers against white workers. Ten thousand whites rampaged through Atlanta, beating every black person they could find, resulting in over 25 deaths. In the aftermath of the 1906 violence, Du Bois urged blacks to withdraw their support from the Republican Party, because Republicans Roosevelt and William Howard Taft did not sufficiently support blacks. Most African Americans had been loyal to the Republican Party since the time of Abraham Lincoln.\n\nDu Bois wrote the essay, \"A Litany at Atlanta\", which asserted that the riot demonstrated that the Atlanta Compromise was a failure. Despite upholding their end of the bargain, blacks had failed to receive legal justice in the South. Historian David Levering Lewis has written that the Compromise no longer held because white patrician planters, who took a paternalistic role, had been replaced by aggressive businessmen who were willing to pit blacks against whites. These two calamities were watershed events for the African-American community, marking the ascendancy of Du Bois's vision of equal rights.\n\nIn addition to writing editorials, Du Bois continued to produce scholarly work at Atlanta University. In 1909, after five years of effort, he published a biography of abolitionist John Brown. It contained many insights, but also contained some factual errors. The work was strongly criticized by \"The Nation\", which was owned by Oswald Villard, who was writing his own, competing biography of John Brown. Du Bois's work was largely ignored by white scholars. After publishing a piece in \"Collier's\" magazine warning of the end of \"white supremacy\", Du Bois had difficulty getting pieces accepted by major periodicals. But he did continue to publish columns regularly in \"The Horizon\" magazine.\n\nDu Bois was the first African American invited by the American Historical Association (AHA) to present a paper at their annual conference. He read his paper, \"Reconstruction and Its Benefits,\" to an astounded audience at the AHA's December 1909 conference. The paper went against the mainstream historical view, promoted by the Dunning School of scholars at Columbia University, that Reconstruction was a disaster, caused by the ineptitude and sloth of blacks. To the contrary, Du Bois asserted that the brief period of African-American leadership in the South accomplished three important goals: democracy, free public schools, and new social welfare legislation. He asserted that it was the federal government's failure to manage the Freedmen's Bureau, to distribute land, and to establish an educational system, that doomed African-American prospects in the South. When Du Bois submitted the paper for publication a few months later in the \"American Historical Review\", he asked that the word Negro be capitalized. The editor, J. Franklin Jameson, refused, and published the paper without the capitalization. The paper was mostly ignored by white historians. Du Bois later developed his paper as his ground-breaking 1935 book, \"Black Reconstruction,\" which marshaled extensive facts to support his assertions. The AHA did not invite another African-American speaker until 1940.\nIn May 1909, Du Bois attended the National Negro Conference in New York. The meeting led to the creation of the National Negro Committee, chaired by Oswald Villard, and dedicated to campaigning for civil rights, equal voting rights, and equal educational opportunities. The following spring, in 1910, at the second National Negro Conference, the attendees created the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). At Du Bois's suggestion, the word \"colored\", rather than \"black\", was used to include \"dark skinned people everywhere\". Dozens of civil rights supporters, black and white, participated in the founding, but most executive officers were white, including Mary Ovington, Charles Edward Russell, William English Walling, and its first president, Moorfield Storey.\n\nNAACP leaders offered Du Bois the position of Director of Publicity and Research. He accepted the job in the summer of 1910, and moved to New York after resigning from Atlanta University. His primary duty was editing the NAACP's monthly magazine, which he named \"The Crisis\". The first issue appeared in November 1910, and Du Bois pronounced that its aim was to set out \"those facts and arguments which show the danger of race prejudice, particularly as manifested today toward colored people\". The journal was phenomenally successful, and its circulation would reach 100,000 in 1920. Typical articles in the early editions included one that inveighed against the dishonesty and parochialism of black churches, and one that discussed the Afrocentric origins of Egyptian civilization.\n\nAn important Du Bois editorial from 1911 helped initiate a nationwide push to induce the Federal government to outlaw lynching. Du Bois, employing the sarcasm he frequently used, commented on a lynching in Pennsylvania: \"The point is he was black. Blackness must be punished. Blackness is the crime of crimes ... It is therefore necessary, as every white scoundrel in the nation knows, to let slip no opportunity of punishing this crime of crimes. Of course if possible, the pretext should be great and overwhelming – some awful stunning crime, made even more horrible by the reporters' imagination. Failing this, mere murder, arson, barn burning or impudence may do.\"\n\n\"The Crisis\" carried editorials by Du Bois that supported the ideals of unionized labor but excoriated the racism demonstrated by its leaders, who systematically excluded blacks from membership. Du Bois also supported the principles of the Socialist Party (he was briefly a member of the party from 1910 to 1912), but he denounced the racism demonstrated by some socialist leaders. Frustrated by Republican president Taft's failure to address widespread lynching, Du Bois endorsed Democratic candidate Woodrow Wilson in the 1912 presidential race, in exchange for Wilson's promise to support black causes.\n\nThroughout his writings, Du Bois supported women's rights, but he found it difficult to publicly endorse the women's right-to-vote movement because leaders of the suffragism movement refused to support his fight against racial injustice. A \"Crisis\" editorial from 1913 broached the taboo subject of interracial marriage: although Du Bois generally expected persons to marry within their race, he viewed the problem as a women's rights issue, because laws prohibited white men from marrying black women. Du Bois wrote \"[anti-miscegenation] laws leave the colored girls absolutely helpless for the lust of white men. It reduces colored women in the eyes of the law to the position of dogs. As low as the white girl falls, she can compel her seducer to marry her ... We must kill [anti-miscegenation laws] not because we are anxious to marry the white men's sisters, but because we are determined that white men will leave our sisters alone.\"\n\nDuring the years 1915 and 1916, some leaders of the NAACP – disturbed by financial losses at \"The Crisis\", and worried about the inflammatory rhetoric of some of its essays – attempted to oust Du Bois from his editorial position. Du Bois and his supporters prevailed, and he continued in his role as editor. In a 1919 column titled \"The True Brownies\", he announced the creation of \"The Brownies' Book\", the first magazine published for African-American children and youth, which he founded with Augustus Granville Dill and Jessie Redmon Fauset.\n\nThe 1910s were a productive time for Du Bois. In 1911 he attended the First Universal Races Congress in London and he published his first novel, \"The Quest of the Silver Fleece.\" Two years later, Du Bois wrote, produced, and directed a pageant for the stage, \"The Star of Ethiopia\". In 1915, Du Bois published \"The Negro\", a general history of black Africans, and the first of its kind in English. The book rebutted claims of African inferiority, and would come to serve as the basis of much Afrocentric historiography in the 20th century. \"The Negro\" predicted unity and solidarity for colored people around the world, and it influenced many who supported the Pan-African movement.\n\nIn 1915, \"The Atlantic Monthly\" carried an essay by Du Bois, \"The African Roots of the War\", which consolidated Du Bois's ideas on capitalism and race. In it, he argued that the scramble for Africa was at the root of World War I. He also anticipated later Communist doctrine, by suggesting that wealthy capitalists had pacified white workers by giving them just enough wealth to prevent them from revolting, and by threatening them with competition by the lower-cost labor of colored workers.\n\nDu Bois used his influential role in the NAACP to oppose a variety of racist incidents. When the silent film \"The Birth of a Nation\" premiered in 1915, Du Bois and the NAACP led the fight to ban the movie, because of its racist portrayal of blacks as brutish and lustful. The fight was not successful, and possibly contributed to the film's fame, but the publicity drew many new supporters to the NAACP.\n\nThe private sector was not the only source of racism: under President Wilson, the plight of African Americans in government jobs suffered. Many federal agencies adopted whites-only employment practices, the Army excluded blacks from officer ranks, and the immigration service prohibited the immigration of persons of African ancestry. Du Bois wrote an editorial in 1914 deploring the dismissal of blacks from federal posts, and he supported William Monroe Trotter when Trotter brusquely confronted Wilson about Wilson's failure to fulfill his campaign promise of justice for blacks.\n\n\"The Crisis\" continued to wage a campaign against lynching. In 1915, it published an article with a year-by-year tabulation of 2,732 lynchings from 1884 to 1914. The April 1916 edition covered the group lynching of six African Americans in Lee County, Georgia. Later in 1916, the \"Waco Horror\" article covered the lynching of Jesse Washington, a mentally impaired 17-year-old African American. The article broke new ground by utilizing undercover reporting to expose the conduct of local whites in Waco, Texas.\n\nThe early 20th century was the era of the Great Migration of blacks from the Southern United States to the Northeast, Midwest and West. Du Bois wrote an editorial supporting the Great Migration, because he felt it would help blacks escape Southern racism, find economic opportunities, and assimilate into American society.\n\nAlso in the 1910s the American eugenics movement was in its infancy, and many leading eugenicists were openly racist, defining Blacks as \"a lower race\". Du Bois opposed this view as an unscientific aberration, but still maintained the basic principle of eugenics: that different persons have different inborn characteristics that make them more or less suited for specific kinds of employment, and that by encouraging the most talented members of all races to procreate would better the \"stocks\" of humanity.\n\nAs the United States prepared to enter World War I in 1917, Du Bois's colleague in the NAACP, Joel Spingarn, established a camp to train African Americans to serve as officers in the United States military. The camp was controversial, because some whites felt that blacks were not qualified to be officers, and some blacks felt that African Americans should not participate in what they considered a white man's war. Du Bois supported Spingarn's training camp, but was disappointed when the Army forcibly retired one of its few black officers, Charles Young, on a pretense of ill health. The Army agreed to create 1,000 officer positions for blacks, but insisted that 250 come from enlisted men, conditioned to taking orders from whites, rather than from independent-minded blacks that came from the camp. Over 700,000 blacks enlisted on the first day of the draft, but were subject to discriminatory conditions which prompted vocal protests from Du Bois.\n\nAfter the East St. Louis riots occurred in the summer of 1917, Du Bois traveled to St. Louis to report on the riots. Between 40 and 250 African Americans were massacred by whites, primarily due to resentment caused by St. Louis industry hiring blacks to replace striking white workers. Du Bois's reporting resulted in an article \"The Massacre of East St. Louis\", published in the September issue of \"The Crisis,\" which contained photographs and interviews detailing the violence. Historian David Levering Lewis concluded that Du Bois distorted some of the facts in order to increase the propaganda value of the article. To publicly demonstrate the black community's outrage over the riots, Du Bois organized the Silent Parade, a march of around 9,000 African Americans down New York City's Fifth Avenue, the first parade of its kind in New York, and the second instance of blacks publicly demonstrating for civil rights.\n\nThe Houston riot of 1917 disturbed Du Bois and was a major setback to efforts to permit African Americans to become military officers. The riot began after Houston police arrested and beat two black soldiers; in response, over 100 black soldiers took to the streets of Houston and killed 16 whites. A military court martial was held, and 19 of the soldiers were hung, and 67 others were imprisoned. In spite of the Houston riot, Du Bois and others successfully pressed the Army to accept the officers trained at Spingarn's camp, resulting in over 600 black officers joining the Army in October 1917.\n\nFederal officials, concerned about subversive viewpoints expressed by NAACP leaders, attempted to frighten the NAACP by threatening it with investigations. Du Bois was not intimidated, and in 1918 he predicted that World War I would lead to an overthrow of the European colonial system and to the \"liberation\" of colored people worldwide – in China, in India, and especially in America. NAACP chairman Joel Spingarn was enthusiastic about the war, and he persuaded Du Bois to consider an officer's commission in the Army, contingent on Du Bois writing an editorial repudiating his anti-war stance. Du Bois accepted this bargain and wrote the pro-war \"Close Ranks\" editorial in June 1918 and soon thereafter he received a commission in the Army. Many black leaders, who wanted to leverage the war to gain civil rights for African Americans, criticized Du Bois for his sudden reversal. Southern officers in Du Bois's unit objected to his presence, and his commission was withdrawn.\n\nWhen the war ended, Du Bois traveled to Europe in 1919 to attend the first Pan-African Congress and to interview African-American soldiers for a planned book on their experiences in World War I. He was trailed by U.S. agents who were searching for evidence of treasonous activities. Du Bois discovered that the vast majority of black American soldiers were relegated to menial labor as stevedores and laborers. Some units were armed, and one in particular, the 92nd Division (the Buffalo soldiers), engaged in combat. Du Bois discovered widespread racism in the Army, and concluded that the Army command discouraged African Americans from joining the Army, discredited the accomplishments of black soldiers, and promoted bigotry.\n\nAfter returning from Europe, Du Bois was more determined than ever to gain equal rights for African Americans. Black soldiers returning from overseas felt a new sense of power and worth, and were representative of an emerging attitude referred to as the New Negro. In the editorial \"Returning Soldiers\" he wrote: \"But, by the God of Heaven, we are cowards and jackasses if, now that the war is over, we do not marshal every ounce of our brain and brawn to fight a sterner, longer, more unbending battle against the forces of hell in our own land.\" Many blacks moved to northern cities in search of work, and some northern white workers resented the competition. This labor strife was one of the causes of the Red Summer of 1919, a horrific series of race riots across America, in which over 300 African Americans were killed in over 30 cities. Du Bois documented the atrocities in the pages of \"The Crisis\", culminating in the December publication of a gruesome photograph of a lynching that occurred during the Omaha, Nebraska race riot.\n\nThe most egregious episode during the Red Summer was a vicious attack on blacks in Elaine, Arkansas, in which nearly 200 blacks were murdered. Reports coming out of the South blamed the blacks, alleging that they were conspiring to take over the government. Infuriated with the distortions, Du Bois published a letter in the \"New York World\", claiming that the only crime the black sharecroppers had committed was daring to challenge their white landlords by hiring an attorney to investigate contractual irregularities. Over 60 of the surviving blacks were arrested and tried for conspiracy, in the case known as \"Moore v. Dempsey\". Du Bois rallied blacks across America to raise funds for the legal defense, which, six years later, resulted in a Supreme Court victory authored by Oliver Wendell Holmes. Although the victory had little immediate impact on justice for blacks in the South, it marked the first time the Federal government used the 14th amendment guarantee of due process to prevent states from shielding mob violence.\n\nIn 1920, Du Bois published \"\", the first of three autobiographies he would write. The \"veil\" was that which covered colored people around the world. In the book, he hoped to lift the veil and show white readers what life was like behind the veil, and how it distorted the viewpoints of those looking through it – in both directions. The book contained Du Bois's feminist essay, \"The Damnation of Women\", which was a tribute to the dignity and worth of women, particularly black women.\n\nConcerned that textbooks used by African-American children ignored black history and culture, Du Bois created a monthly children's magazine, \"The Brownies' Book\". Initially published in 1920, it was aimed at black children, who Du Bois called \"the children of the sun\".\n\nDu Bois traveled to Europe in 1921 to attend the second Pan-African Congress. The assembled black leaders from around the world issued the \"London Resolutions\" and established a Pan-African Association headquarters in Paris. Under Du Bois's guidance, the resolutions insisted on racial equality, and that Africa be ruled \"by\" Africans (not, as in the 1919 congress, with the \"consent\" of Africans). Du Bois restated the resolutions of the congress in his \"Manifesto To the League of Nations\", which implored the newly formed League of Nations to address labor issues and to appoint Africans to key posts. The League took little action on the requests.\n\nAnother important African-American leader of the 1920s was Marcus Garvey, promoter of the Back-to-Africa movement and founder of the Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA). Garvey denounced Du Bois's efforts to achieve equality through integration, and instead endorsed racial separatism. Du Bois initially supported the concept of Garvey's Black Star Line, a shipping company that was intended to facilitate commerce within the African diaspora. But Du Bois later became concerned that Garvey was threatening the NAACP's efforts, leading Du Bois to describe him as fraudulent and reckless. Responding to Garvey's slogan \"Africa for the Africans\", Du Bois said that he supported that concept, but denounced Garvey's intention that Africa be ruled by African Americans.\n\nDu Bois wrote a series of articles in \"The Crisis\" between 1922 and 1924 attacking Garvey's movement, calling him the \"most dangerous enemy of the Negro race in America and the world.\" Du Bois and Garvey never made a serious attempt to collaborate, and their dispute was partly rooted in the desire of their respective organizations (NAACP and UNIA) to capture a larger portion of the available philanthropic funding.\n\nHarvard's decision to ban blacks from its dormitories in 1921 was decried by Du Bois as an instance of a broad effort in the U.S. to renew \"the Anglo-Saxon cult; the worship of the Nordic totem, the disfranchisement of Negro, Jew, Irishman, Italian, Hungarian, Asiatic and South Sea Islander – the world rule of Nordic white through brute force.\" When Du Bois sailed for Europe in 1923 for the third Pan-African Congress, the circulation of \"The Crisis\" had declined to 60,000 from its World War I high of 100,000, but it remained the preeminent periodical of the civil rights movement. President Coolidge designated Du Bois an \"Envoy Extraordinary\" to Liberia and – after the third congress concluded – Du Bois rode a German freighter from the Canary Islands to Africa, visiting Liberia, Sierra Leone and Senegal.\n\nDu Bois frequently promoted African-American artistic creativity in his writings, and when the Harlem Renaissance emerged in the mid-1920s, his article \"A Negro Art Renaissance\" celebrated the end of the long hiatus of blacks from creative endeavors. His enthusiasm for the Harlem Renaissance waned as he came to believe that many whites visited Harlem for voyeurism, not for genuine appreciation of black art. Du Bois insisted that artists recognize their moral responsibilities, writing that \"a black artist is first of all a \"black\" artist.\" He was also concerned that black artists were not using their art to promote black causes, saying \"I do not care a damn for any art that is not used for propaganda.\" By the end of 1926, he stopped employing \"The Crisis\" to support the arts.\n\nWhen Du Bois became editor of \"The Crisis\" magazine in 1911, he joined the Socialist Party of America on the advice of NAACP founders Mary Ovington, William English Walling and Charles Edward Russell. However, he supported the Democrat Woodrow Wilson in the 1912 presidential campaign, a breach of the rules, and was forced to resign from the Socialist Party. Du Bois remained: \"convinced that socialism was an excellent way of life, but I thought it might be reached by various methods.\"\n\nNine years after the 1917 Russian Revolution, Du Bois extended a trip to Europe to include a visit to the Soviet Union. Du Bois was struck by the poverty and disorganization he encountered in the Soviet Union, yet was impressed by the intense labors of the officials and by the recognition given to workers. Although Du Bois was not yet familiar with the communist theories of Karl Marx or Vladimir Lenin, he concluded that socialism may be a better path towards racial equality than capitalism.\n\nAlthough Du Bois generally endorsed socialist principles, his politics were strictly pragmatic: in 1929, Du Bois endorsed Democrat Jimmy Walker for mayor of New York, rather than the socialist Norman Thomas, believing that Walker could do more immediate good for blacks, even though Thomas' platform was more consistent with Du Bois's views. Throughout the 1920s, Du Bois and the NAACP shifted support back and forth between the Republican Party and the Democratic Party, induced by promises from the candidates to fight lynchings, improve working conditions, or support voting rights in the South; invariably, the candidates failed to deliver on their promises.\n\nA rivalry emerged in 1931 between the NAACP and the Communist Party, when the Communists responded quickly and effectively to support the Scottsboro Boys, nine African-American youth arrested in 1931 in Alabama for rape. Du Bois and the NAACP felt that the case would not be beneficial to their cause, so they chose to let the Communist Party organize the defense efforts. Du Bois was impressed with the vast amount of publicity and funds the Communists devoted to the partially successful defense effort, and he came to suspect that the Communists were attempting to present their party to African Americans as a better solution than the NAACP. Responding to criticisms of the NAACP from the Communist Party, Du Bois wrote articles condemning the party, claiming that it unfairly attacked the NAACP, and that it failed to fully appreciate racism in the United States. The Communist leaders, in turn, accused Du Bois of being a \"class enemy\", and claimed that the NAACP leadership was an isolated elite, disconnected from the working-class blacks they ostensibly fought for.\n\nDu Bois did not have a good working relationship with Walter Francis White, president of the NAACP since 1931. That conflict, combined with the financial stresses of the Great Depression, precipitated a power struggle over \"The Crisis\". Du Bois, concerned that his position as editor would be eliminated, resigned his job at \"The Crisis\" and accepted an academic position at Atlanta University in early 1933. The rift with the NAACP grew larger in 1934 when Du Bois reversed his stance on segregation, stating that \"separate but equal\" was an acceptable goal for African Americans. The NAACP leadership was stunned, and asked Du Bois to retract his statement, but he refused, and the dispute led to Du Bois's resignation from the NAACP.\n\nAfter arriving at his new professorship in Atlanta, Du Bois wrote a series of articles generally supportive of Marxism. He was not a strong proponent of labor unions or the Communist Party, but he felt that Marx's scientific explanation of society and the economy were useful for explaining the situation of African Americans in the United States. Marx's atheism also struck a chord with Du Bois, who routinely criticized black churches for dulling blacks' sensitivity to racism. In his 1933 writings, Du Bois embraced socialism, but asserted that \"[c]olored labor has no common ground with white labor\", a controversial position that was rooted in Du Bois's dislike of American labor unions, which had systematically excluded blacks for decades. Du Bois did not support the Communist Party in the U.S. and did not vote for their candidate in the 1932 presidential election, in spite of an African American on their ticket.\n\nBack in the world of academia, Du Bois was able to resume his study of Reconstruction, the topic of the 1910 paper that he presented to the American Historical Association. In 1935, he published his magnum opus, \"Black Reconstruction in America\". The book presented the thesis, in the words of the historian David Levering Lewis, that \"black people, suddenly admitted to citizenship in an environment of feral hostility, displayed admirable volition and intelligence as well as the indolence and ignorance inherent in three centuries of bondage.\" Du Bois documented how black people were central figures in the American Civil War and Reconstruction, and also showed how they made alliances with white politicians. He provided evidence that the coalition governments established public education in the South, and many needed social service programs. The book also demonstrated the ways in which black emancipation – the crux of Reconstruction – promoted a radical restructuring of United States society, as well as how and why the country failed to continue support for civil rights for blacks in the aftermath of Reconstruction.\n\nThe book's thesis ran counter to the orthodox interpretation of Reconstruction maintained by white historians, and the book was virtually ignored by mainstream historians until the 1960s. Thereafter, however, it ignited a \"revisionist\" trend in the historiography of Reconstruction, which emphasized black people's search for freedom and the era's radical policy changes. By the 21st century, \"Black Reconstruction\" was widely perceived as \"the foundational text of revisionist African American historiography.\"\n\nIn the final chapter of the book, \"XIV. The Propaganda of History\", Du Bois evokes his efforts at writing an article for the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" on the \"history of the American Negro\". After the editors had cut all reference to Reconstruction, he insisted that the following note appear in the entry: \"White historians have ascribed the faults and failures of Reconstruction to Negro ignorance and corruption. But the Negro insists that it was Negro loyalty and the Negro vote alone that restored the South to the Union; established the new democracy, both for white and black, and instituted the public schools.\" The editors refused and, so, Du Bois withdrew his article.\n\nIn 1932, Du Bois was selected by several philanthropies – including the Phelps-Stokes Fund, the Carnegie Corporation, and the General Education Board – to be the managing editor for a proposed \"Encyclopedia of the Negro\", a work Du Bois had been contemplating for 30 years. After several years of planning and organizing, the philanthropies cancelled the project in 1938, because some board members believed that Du Bois was too biased to produce an objective encyclopedia.\n\nDu Bois took a trip around the world in 1936, which included visits to Nazi Germany, China and Japan. While in Germany, Du Bois remarked that he was treated with warmth and respect. After his return to the United States, he expressed his ambivalence about the Nazi regime. He admired how the Nazis had improved the German economy, but he was horrified by their treatment of the Jewish people, which he described as \"an attack on civilization, comparable only to such horrors as the Spanish Inquisition and the African slave trade.\"\n\nFollowing the 1905 Japanese victory in the Russo-Japanese War, Du Bois became impressed by the growing strength of Imperial Japan. He considered the victory of Japan over Tsarist Russia as an example of colored peoples defeating white peoples. A representative of Japan's \"Negro Propaganda Operations\" traveled to the United States during the 1920s and 1930s, meeting with Du Bois and giving him a positive impression of Imperial Japan's racial policies. In 1936, the Japanese ambassador arranged a trip to Japan for Du Bois and a small group of academics.\n\nDu Bois opposed the U.S. intervention in World War II, particularly in the Pacific, because he believed that China and Japan were emerging from the clutches of white imperialists. He felt that the European Allies waging war against Japan was an opportunity for whites to reestablish their influence in Asia. He was deeply disappointed by the US government's plan for African Americans in the armed forces: Blacks were limited to 5.8% of the force, and there were to be no African-American combat units – virtually the same restrictions as in World War I. With blacks threatening to shift their support to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Republican opponent in the 1940 election, Roosevelt appointed a few blacks to leadership posts in the military.\n\"Dusk of Dawn\", Du Bois's second autobiography, was published in 1940. The title refers to Du Bois's hope that African Americans were passing out of the darkness of racism into an era of greater equality. The work is part autobiography, part history, and part sociological treatise. Du Bois described the book as \"the autobiography of a concept of race [...] elucidated and magnified and doubtless distorted in the thoughts and deeds which were mine [...] Thus for all time my life is significant for all lives of men.\"\n\nIn 1943, at the age of 76, Du Bois was abruptly fired from his position at Atlanta University by college president Rufus Clement. Many scholars expressed outrage, prompting Atlanta University to provide Du Bois with a lifelong pension and the title of professor emeritus. Arthur Spingarn remarked that Du Bois spent his time in Atlanta \"battering his life out against ignorance, bigotry, intolerance and slothfulness, projecting ideas nobody but he understands, and raising hopes for change which may be comprehended in a hundred years.\"\n\nTurning down job offers from Fisk and Howard, Du Bois re-joined the NAACP as director of the Department of Special Research. Surprising many NAACP leaders, Du Bois jumped into the job with vigor and determination. During the 10 years while Du Bois was away from the NAACP, its income had increased fourfold, and its membership had soared to 325,000 members.\nDu Bois was a member of the three-person delegation from the NAACP that attended the 1945 conference in San Francisco at which the United Nations was established. The NAACP delegation wanted the United Nations to endorse racial equality and to bring an end to the colonial era. To push the United Nations in that direction, Du Bois drafted a proposal that pronounced \"[t]he colonial system of government [...] is undemocratic, socially dangerous and a main cause of wars\". The NAACP proposal received support from China, Russia and India, but it was virtually ignored by the other major powers, and the NAACP proposals were not included in the United Nations charter.\n\nAfter the United Nations conference, Du Bois published \"Color and Democracy: Colonies and Peace\", a book that attacked colonial empires and, in the words of one reviewer, \"contains enough dynamite to blow up the whole vicious system whereby we have comforted our white souls and lined the pockets of generations of free-booting capitalists.\"\n\nIn late 1945, Du Bois attended the fifth, and final, Pan-African Congress, in Manchester, England. The congress was the most productive of the five congresses, and there Du Bois met Kwame Nkrumah, the future first president of Ghana who would later invite Du Bois to Africa.\n\nDu Bois helped to submit petitions to the UN concerning discrimination against African Americans, the most noteworthy of which was the NAACP's \"An Appeal to the World: A Statement on the Denial of Human Rights to Minorities in the Case of Citizens of Negro Descent in the United States of America and an Appeal to the United Nations for Redress\". This advocacy laid the foundation for the later report and petition called \"We Charge Genocide\", submitted in 1951 by the Civil Rights Congress. \"We Charge Genocide\" accuses the U.S. of systematically sanctioning murders and inflicting harm against African Americans and therefore committing genocide.\n\nWhen the Cold War commenced in the mid-1940s, the NAACP distanced itself from Communists, lest its funding or reputation suffer. The NAACP redoubled their efforts in 1947 after \"Life\" magazine published a piece by Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. claiming that the NAACP was heavily influenced by Communists. Ignoring the NAACP's desires, Du Bois continued to fraternize with communist sympathizers such as Paul Robeson, Howard Fast and Shirley Graham (his future second wife). Du Bois wrote \"I am not a communist [...] On the other hand, I [...] believe [...] that Karl Marx [...] put his finger squarely upon our difficulties [...]\". In 1946, Du Bois wrote articles giving his assessment of the Soviet Union; he did not embrace communism and he criticized its dictatorship. However, he felt that capitalism was responsible for poverty and racism, and felt that socialism was an alternative that might ameliorate those problems. The Soviets explicitly rejected racial distinctions and class distinctions, leading Du Bois to conclude that the USSR was the \"most hopeful country on earth.\" Du Bois's association with prominent communists made him a liability for the NAACP, especially since the FBI was starting to aggressively investigate communist sympathizers; so – by mutual agreement – he resigned from the NAACP for the second time in late 1948. After departing the NAACP, Du Bois started writing regularly for the leftist weekly newspaper the \"National Guardian\", a relationship that would endure until 1961.\n\nDu Bois was a lifelong anti-war activist, but his efforts became more pronounced after World War II. In 1949, Du Bois spoke at the Scientific and Cultural Conference for World Peace in New York: \"I tell you, people of America, the dark world is on the move! It wants and will have Freedom, Autonomy and Equality. It will not be diverted in these fundamental rights by dialectical splitting of political hairs [...] Whites may, if they will, arm themselves for suicide. But the vast majority of the world's peoples will march on over them to freedom!\"\n\nIn the spring of 1949, he spoke at the World Congress of the Partisans of Peace in Paris, saying to the large crowd: \"Leading this new colonial imperialism comes my own native land built by my father's toil and blood, the United States. The United States is a great nation; rich by grace of God and prosperous by the hard work of its humblest citizens [...] Drunk with power we are leading the world to hell in a new colonialism with the same old human slavery which once ruined us; and to a third World War which will ruin the world.\"\nDu Bois affiliated himself with a leftist organization, the National Council of Arts, Sciences and Professions, and he traveled to Moscow as its representative to speak at the All-Soviet Peace Conference in late 1949.\n\nDuring the 1950s, the U.S. government's anti-communist McCarthyism campaign targeted Du Bois because of his socialist leanings. Historian Manning Marable characterizes the government's treatment of Du Bois as \"ruthless repression\" and a \"political assassination\".\n\nThe FBI began to compile a file on Du Bois in 1942, investigating him for possible subversive activities. The original investigation appears to have ended in 1943 because the FBI was unable to discover sufficient evidence against Du Bois. In 1949, the FBI reopened its files on Du Bois on the suspicion that he was among a group of \"Concealed Communists.\" The most aggressive government attack against Du Bois occurred in the early 1950s, as a consequence of Du Bois's opposition to nuclear weapons. In 1950 Du Bois became chair of the newly created Peace Information Center (PIC), which worked to publicize the Stockholm Peace Appeal in the United States. The primary purpose of the appeal was to gather signatures on a petition, asking governments around the world to ban all nuclear weapons.\n\nThe U.S. Justice department alleged that the PIC was acting as an agent of a foreign state, and thus required the PIC to register with the federal government. Du Bois and other PIC leaders refused, and they were indicted for failure to register. After the indictment, some of Du Bois's associates distanced themselves from him, and the NAACP refused to issue a statement of support; but many labor figures and leftists – including Langston Hughes – supported Du Bois.\n\nHe was finally tried in 1951 represented by civil rights attorney Vito Marcantonio. The case was dismissed before the jury rendered a verdict as soon as the defense attorney told the judge that \"Dr. Albert Einstein has offered to appear as character witness for Dr. Du Bois\". Du Bois's memoir of the trial is \"In Battle for Peace\". Even though Du Bois was not convicted, the government confiscated Du Bois's passport and withheld it for eight years.\n\nDu Bois was bitterly disappointed that many of his colleaguesparticularly the NAACPdid not support him during his 1951 PIC trial, whereas working class whites and blacks supported him enthusiastically. After the trial, Du Bois lived in Manhattan, writing and speaking, and continuing to associate primarily with leftist acquaintances. His primary concern was world peace, and he railed against military actions, such as the Korean War, which he viewed as efforts by imperialist whites to maintain colored people in a submissive state.\n\nIn 1950, at the age of 82, Du Bois ran for U.S. Senator from New York on the American Labor Party ticket and received about 200,000 votes, or 4% of the statewide total. Du Bois continued to believe that capitalism was the primary culprit responsible for the subjugation of colored people around the world, and therefore – although he recognized the faults of the Soviet Union – he continued to uphold communism as a possible solution to racial problems. In the words of biographer David Lewis, Du Bois did not endorse communism for its own sake, but did so because \"the enemies of his enemies were his friends\". The same ambiguity characterized Du Bois's opinions of Joseph Stalin: in 1940 he wrote disdainfully of the \"Tyrant Stalin\", but when Stalin died in 1953, Du Bois wrote a eulogy characterizing Stalin as \"simple, calm, and courageous\", and lauding him for being the \"first [to] set Russia on the road to conquer race prejudice and make one nation out of its 140 groups without destroying their individuality\".\n\nThe U.S. government prevented Du Bois from attending the 1955 Bandung Conference in Indonesia. The conference was the culmination of 40 years of Du Bois's dreams – a meeting of 29 nations from Africa and Asia, many recently independent, representing most of the world's colored peoples. The conference celebrated their independence, as the nations began to assert their power as non-aligned nations during the Cold War. In 1958, Du Bois regained his passport, and with his second wife, Shirley Graham Du Bois, he traveled around the world, visiting Russia and China. In both countries he was celebrated. Du Bois later wrote approvingly of the conditions in both countries.\n\nDu Bois became incensed in 1961 when the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the 1950 McCarran Act, a key piece of McCarthyism legislation which required communists to register with the government. To demonstrate his outrage, he joined the Communist Party in October 1961, at the age of 93. Around that time, he wrote: \"I believe in communism. I mean by communism, a planned way of life in the production of wealth and work designed for building a state whose object is the highest welfare of its people and not merely the profit of a part.\"\n\nGhana invited Du Bois to Africa to participate in their independence celebration in 1957, but he was unable to attend because the U.S. government had confiscated his passport in 1951. By 1960the \"Year of Africa\"Du Bois had recovered his passport, and was able to cross the Atlantic and celebrate the creation of the Republic of Ghana. Du Bois returned to Africa in late 1960 to attend the inauguration of Nnamdi Azikiwe as the first African governor of Nigeria.\n\nWhile visiting Ghana in 1960, Du Bois spoke with its president about the creation of a new encyclopedia of the African diaspora, the \"Encyclopedia Africana\". In early 1961, Ghana notified Du Bois that they had appropriated funds to support the encyclopedia project, and they invited Du Bois to come to Ghana and manage the project there. In October 1961, at the age of 93, Du Bois and his wife traveled to Ghana to take up residence and commence work on the encyclopedia. In early 1963, the United States refused to renew his passport, so he made the symbolic gesture of becoming a citizen of Ghana. While it is sometimes stated that he renounced his U.S. citizenship at that time, and he did state his intention to do so, Du Bois never actually did. His health declined during the two years he was in Ghana, and he died on August 27, 1963, in the capital of Accra at the age of 95. The following day, at the March on Washington, speaker Roy Wilkins asked the hundreds of thousands of marchers to honor Du Bois with a moment of silence. The Civil Rights Act of 1964, embodying many of the reforms Du Bois had campaigned for his entire life, was enacted almost a year after his death.\n\nDu Bois was given a state funeral on August 29–30, 1963, at Nkrumah's request, and buried beside the western wall of Christiansborg Castle (now Osu Castle), then the seat of government in Accra. In 1985, another state ceremony honored Du Bois and, with the ashes of his wife Shirley Graham Du Bois, who died in 1977, his body was re-interred at their former home, which was dedicated the W. E. B. Du Bois Memorial Centre for Pan African Culture in his memory.\n\nDu Bois was organized and disciplined: his lifelong regimen was to rise at 7:15, work until 5, eat dinner and read a newspaper until 7, then read or socialize until he was in bed, invariably before 10. He was a meticulous planner, and frequently mapped out his schedules and goals on large pieces of graph paper. Many acquaintances found him to be distant and aloof, and he insisted on being addressed as \"Dr. Du Bois\". Although he was not gregarious, he formed several close friendships with associates such as Charles Young, Paul Laurence Dunbar, John Hope and Mary White Ovington. His closest friend was Joel Spingarn – a white man – but Du Bois never accepted Spingarn's offer to be on a first-name basis. Du Bois was something of a dandy – he dressed formally, carried a walking stick, and walked with an air of confidence and dignity. He was relatively short, standing at , and always maintained a well-groomed mustache and goatee. He enjoyed singing and playing tennis.\n\nDu Bois was married twice, first to Nina Gomer (m. 1896, d. 1950), with whom he had two children, a son Burghardt (who died as an infant) and a daughter Yolande, who became a high school teacher in Baltimore after attending Fisk University. With her father's support, Yolande married Countee Cullen, a famous poet of the Harlem Renaissance. As a widower, Du Bois married Shirley Graham (m. 1951, d. 1977), an author, playwright, composer and activist. She brought her son David Graham to the marriage. David grew close to Du Bois and took his stepfather's name; he also worked for African-American causes. The historian David Levering Lewis wrote that Du Bois engaged in several extramarital relationships.\n\nAlthough Du Bois attended a New England Congregational church as a child, he abandoned organized religion while at Fisk College. As an adult, Du Bois described himself as agnostic or a freethinker, but at least one biographer concluded that Du Bois was virtually an atheist. However, another analyst of Du Bois's writings concluded that he had a religious voice, albeit radically different from other African-American religious voices of his era, and inaugurated a 20th-century spirituality to which Ralph Ellison, Zora Neale Hurston, and James Baldwin also belong.\n\nWhen asked to lead public prayers, Du Bois would refuse. In his autobiography, Du Bois wrote:\n\nWhen I became head of a department at Atlanta, the engagement was held up because again I balked at leading in prayer [...] I flatly refused again to join any church or sign any church creed. [...] I think the greatest gift of the Soviet Union to modern civilization was the dethronement of the clergy and the refusal to let religion be taught in the public schools.\n\nDu Bois accused American churches of being the most discriminatory of all institutions. He also provocatively linked African-American Christianity to indigenous African religions. Du Bois occasionally acknowledged the beneficial role religion played in African-American life – as the \"basic rock\" which served as an anchor for African-American communities – but in general disparaged African-American churches and clergy because he felt they did not support the goals of racial equality and hindered activists' efforts.\n\nAlthough Du Bois was not personally religious, he infused his writings with religious symbology, and many contemporaries viewed him as a prophet. His 1904 prose poem, \"Credo\", was written in the style of a religious creed and widely read by the African-American community. Moreover, Du Bois, both in his own fiction and in stories published in \"The Crisis\", often analogized lynchings of African Americans to Christ's crucifixion. Between 1920 and 1940, Du Bois shifted from overt black messiah symbolism to more subtle messianic language.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30594109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30594109", "title": "William Wallace (priest)", "text": "William Wallace (priest)\n\nWilliam Wallace (2 March 1863 in Battibrack, Dublin – 2 March 1922 in Kurseong, West Bengal) was an Anglican priest who later became a Roman Catholic priest, member of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) and Indologist.\n\nWilliam Wallace was personally tutored by his father, an Evangelical minister. He attended Dublin University in 1882, received a degree in divinity, and sought ordination in the Anglican tradition at the age of 24. He took up parish work in the Midlands in England, but, after an illness, returned to Ireland to recuperate. Two years later, he decided to become a missionary with the Church Missionary Society, and was appointed to Krishnagar, West Bengal, in 1889. Disillusioned with the Christianity practiced by his fellow Anglicans, he left the Mission quarters and took up residence in a little hut in Krishnagar where he devoted himself to the study of Bengali and \"Gaudiya Vaisnavism\". His life of simplicity and seeking endeared him to his Indian neighbours. His contact with Bengali Hindus led him to the opinion that Protestant spiritualty was inadequate to meet the needs of his deeply spiritual Vaisnava friends.\n\nAfter serving seven years in Bengal, he returned to Ireland on home leave. There he made a study of Catholic doctrine and spirituality, and became convinced that only Roman Catholicism could provide him with the means of dialoguing with his Hindu associates, and that only Catholic spirituality was worth preaching to the Bengalis. Having been rejected by the Mill Hill Fathers, he requested admission to the Jesuit Order whose members were active in Bengal. He was accepted by the Belgian provincial and entered the novitiate on the 15 February 1898. Upon finishing the two years spiritual training in England, he arrived in Calcutta on 13 December 1901.\n\nHe engaged in further studies in philosophy and theology at Shembaganur and St Mary’s, Kurseong before being appointed as a lecturer in English literature at St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. He was later sent to Darjeeling as lecturer and parish priest among the Anglo-Indians. It was at this time that he composed his autobiography, \"From Evangelical to Catholic by Way of the East\", and also several works on Hindu philosophy and yoga. He wanted to make use of Indian philosophy to make an acceptable presentation of Christianity to the Hindus. With his health beginning to fail, he was transferred back to St Mary’s, Kurseong, in 1921. He died on 13 June 1922.\n\nWallace’s significance rests on the influence he exerted upon his contemporaries and on younger Jesuits about the way mission was done in Bengal. He helped shift the mentality toward Indian spirituality among the Jesuits and influence the spiritual formation of the novices who were preparing for service in India. He entreated his superiors in Belgium to send their most talented scholastics to engage in the deep study of Hindu texts. Pierre Johanns and Georges Dandoy were fruits of this vision of Wallace. These St Xavier’s Jesuits “produced a durable synthesis of Catholicism and Hinduism... The ‘Bengal School,’ which these came to be clubbed under, was the lasting contribution to India of Father William Wallace.” The 'Bengal School' is also known as the 'Calcutta School of Indology'.\n\nWallace was inspired by the efforts of Brahmabandhab Upadhyay and Animananda. With them he felt that Christianity had to be Indianized if it had to gain a successful hearing in Bengal. He had read Upadhyay’s articles in Sophia and had been impressed by his basic motivations. In his own writings, he reiterated Upadhyay’s approach regarding the suitability of Indian philosophy as a natural foundation for supernatural religion.\n\n\n"}
