{"id": "21375200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21375200", "title": "A Cat in the Brain", "text": "A Cat in the Brain\n\nA Cat in the Brain (Italian: Un gatto nel cervello; also known as Nightmare Concert and I volti del terrore) is a 1990 Italian horror film written and directed by the \"Italian godfather of gore\" Lucio Fulci. \"A Cat in the Brain\" is one of Lucio Fulci's final films and is notable for self-reflexively summing up his career. The film is a meta-film in which the director appears playing himself, a tortured horror filmmaker who is driven by the violent visions that he experiences both behind the camera and off the set. Feeling like he's losing his grip on reality and disturbed by murderous fantasies, Fulci consults a psychotherapist. The \"shrink\" exploits the director's vulnerabilities to his own murderous ends. \n\n\"A Cat in the Brain\" has been called the horror film equivalent of Federico Fellini's \"8½\", using cynical, Grand Guignol humour. Juxtaposing gory horror clips from several of his own past horror films which he either directed and/or produced, Lucio Fulci shot a wrap-around segment featuring his own plot and used Vincenzo Tomassi's film editing (as well as his own voice over) to create the storyline – a personal insight into the effects of horror filmmaking on the psyche.\n\nHaunted by his own bloody horror film visions and with news of real life murders happening in Rome, splatter film director Lucio Fulci (playing himself) seeks the advice of a psychiatrist.\n\nDr. Lucio Fulci (more or less playing himself) is a former medical doctor-turned director of gory horror films. He wraps up shooting for the day on his latest film 'Touch of Death' with Brett Halsey playing the human monster/cannibal of women. Fulci leaves the Cinecittà Studios for a local restaurant down the street. A young friendly waiter recognizes him and suggests his typical meal: a fillet of steak, or steak tartare. Fulci cannot look at the sample plates of meat without having flashbacks to the cannibalistic scene he'd been filming earlier. Shaken, he leaves the restaurant without ordering a meal. Later, while checking an effects shot from another movie, Fulci irritably snaps at a technician to get a plate of animal eyeballs out of his sight.\n\nReturning home to his row house in an old suburb of Rome, the troubled director tries to sleep, but the noise of a handyman's chainsaw outside keeps him awake with recollections of his own recently shot chainsaw mayhem. In a rage, Fulci storms outside and smashes a hatchet into cans of paint belonging to the handyman. The spilled red paint reminds Fulci of the acid/blood scene in 'The Beyond'.\n\nFulci walks from his home and discovers that one of his neighbors is a psychiatrist. Meanwhile, Professor Egon Swharz (David L. Thompson) is arguing with his wife Katya (Melissa Lang). Their bitter routine row is interrupted by the intercom buzzing where his secretary Nurse Lilly (Judy Morrow) informing him of this latest walk-in. Professor Swharz walks in and accepts Fulci into his books for a session. After walking out of the reception area, Nurse Lilly immediately phones a friend saying \"guess who just walked in as a patient!\" Swhartz discusses Fulci's recent problems and suggests that he's \"breaking down the barrier, the boundary between what you film and what's real.\"\n\nThe next day at Cinecittà, Fulci's producer Filippo (Shilett Angel) tells him that the pace has to be stepped up on filming. Fulci is revealed to making two films at the same time: 'The Touch of Death', and 'Ghosts of Sodom'. Robert Egon, the young actor playing the Nazi seducer in the later film, approaches Fulci in a corridor to discuss his role. \"Your presence should make a deadly impression\", says Fulci. \"You are after all a symbol of death. And you've also the whole horror of the Nazis. Get me?\" Fulci talks the actors through the seduction scene in 'Ghost of Sodom'. When the filming is done, Fulci staggers out into a corridor muttering, \"Sadism, Nazism; is there any point any more?\"\n\nNo sooner has Fulci left the set when his producer steers him into a studio suite for an interview with a Munich news crew. The sight of the tall, blond, German lady reporter's long legs triggers a vision of sexual abandon in Nazi Germany (from the film 'Ghosts of Sodom') When Fulci recovers from his vision, he finds himself outside again with his producer saying, \"Lucio, you must stop! Stop, in the name of God!\" Filippo informs the confused director that he has just run amuck, smashed the TV crews camera and tried to rip the interviewer's clothes off.\n\nProfessor Swharz calls Fulci for another consultation after he had watched all of his films. He suggests using hypnosis. Once Fulci is under, the Professor's true colors are revealed. He switches on a buzzer device and describes a mad scheme: \"You'll do everything I tell you when you hear this sound. Your mind will make you live scenes you think are real. You will slowly be possessed by madness. You'll think you've committed terrible crimes.\" After the session is over, Fulci leaves unable to remember anything. Swharz then embarks on a killing spree, starting with the murder of a local prostitute that evening. Fulci arrives on the scene after the police show up and thinks he committed the murder. Running away, his car breaks down en route to a film location shoot. When he arrives at a cemetery where a nighttime Gothic scene is to be filmed, he finds that his assistant director, and Filippo his producer, have started filming without him.\n\nBack home the following morning, Fulci tries to relax, but with each simple action, he is plagued by memories and visions of screen violence from his movies. Fleeing his house, he goes for a drive. But Swharz follows him and commits three more murders, first a couple in a remote boathouse, and the groundskeeper who witnesses him. Fulci arrives on the scene forcing Swharz to hide, and again Fulci thinks he committed the murders. Getting back into his car for a drive down a long country road, Fulci hallucinates about running over a tramp (from the movie 'Touch of Death'). After returning home, Fulci phones the police station to speak to his friend Inspector Gabrielli (Jeoffrey Kennedy) intending to make a \"confession.\" But he learns that Gabrielli is on vacation.\n\nAfter another visit to Professor Swharz is of little help to cure him of his waking nightmares, Fulci decides to drive over to Inspector Gabrielli's house in the hope of speaking to him. Swharz follows him there with the buzzer device. Fulci lets himself into his friend's house, and immediately suffers from visions of Gabrielle's family being stabbed, chainsawed, and decapitated. Fulci staggers outside to be greeted by the returning policeman, who reassures the flaky director that his family are safely on holiday in Sardinia. When Fulci expresses his visions to Gabrielli and that he may have killed some people, the cheerful police detective responds, \"If you're trying to create a sensation like you do in your films, this time you've goofed.\"\n\nMeanwhile, Professor Swharz can stand no more of his wife's bland contempt for him and his practice. So, the insane psychiatrist strangles her to death by ripping out a wire from his wife's piano and nearly decapitates her with it. Swharz then heads out again to tail Fulci, who under the influence of hypnosis again, suffers through one more blast of violent imagery and faints in the middle of a field. He comes round the next morning to discover a cat digging up the loosely buried remains of another Swharz victim. As Fulci scrapes soil from the dead features, Inspector Gabrielli appears behind him. Before Fulci can protest his innocence, Gabrielli informs him that Swharz has been shot dead by his men who were tailing Fulci which he ordered after their conversation the previous day, who caught the mad psychiatrist in the act.\n\nSeveral months later, Fulci and the beautiful Nurse Lilly sail on his sailboat, 'Perversion' (named from his first thriller movie). Fulci looks furtively around and follows the young woman into the cabin-quarters. Suddenly, the sound of a chainsaw revs up, followed by her terrified screams. Fulci emerges from the cabin a minute later with a basket of her body parts and attaches the severed fingers onto fishing hooks which he casually casts into the water. Just when it appears that Fulci is really a crazed killer after all, it is revealed that this 'killing' is the very last shot of his newest film, 'Nightmare Concert', captured by a film crew sailing alongside. Bidding goodbye to his colleagues, Fulci happily sails out of the harbor with his very-much alive leading lady. (An alternate version features a bloodcurdling scream dubbed onto the soundtrack from below deck after Fulci and the girl sail away from the dock, hinting that Fulci really \"was\" a maniacal killer.)\n\n\nThe film was composed almost entirely in post-production, assembled from clips from Lucio Fulci's past horror films. The wrap-around segments featuring Lucio Fulci were largely shot in and around Rome's famous Cinecittà Studios, home of master Italian filmmaker Federico Fellini.<br>\nThe film has two different endings, depending on what country it is being shown in. <br>\nBrett Halsey said in an interview that he didn't even know he was in the film until quite some time after the film was released. Fulci had used clips of Halsey from an earlier film \"Touch of Death\" without ever notifying Halsey. Halsey said it kind of spoiled his previously good relationship with Fulci, because he felt that Fulci should've paid him something for doing that, even if it was just a small token payment.\n\nList of films that were sourced:\n\n\nThe original film was first released in Italy on 8 August 1990, and was released in the USA and Japan on laserdisc in the late 1990s. The uncut, uncensored director's cut of the film was released in North America for the first time on DVD and VHS by Image Entertainment in 2001 (in very limited quantities) as a part of \"The Euroshock Collection\", then reissued on 31 March 2009 by Grindhouse Releasing on the Ryko/Warner Brothers label. The release features new Grindhouse Releasing interviews with director Fulci and star, Brett Halsey, as well as numerous other extras and bonus materials. Liner notes have been contributed by the filmmaker's daughter, Antonella Fulci, as well as acclaimed horror novelist David J. Schow and American horror film director Eli Roth (\"Hostel\", \"Cabin Fever\"). Grindhouse Releasing/Box Office Spectaculars continues to be the official licensed distributor of the film.\n"}
{"id": "2774365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2774365", "title": "A Letter to a Hindu", "text": "A Letter to a Hindu\n\n\"A Letter to a Hindu\" (also known as \"A Letter to a Hindoo\") was a letter written by Leo Tolstoy to Tarak Nath Das on 14 December 1908. The letter was written in response to two letters sent by Das, seeking support from the famous Russian author and thinker for India's independence from British colonial rule. The letter was published in the Indian newspaper \"Free Hindustan\". The letter caused the young Mohandas Gandhi to write to the world-famous Tolstoy to ask for advice and for permission to reprint the \"Letter\" in Gandhi's own South African newspaper, \"Indian Opinion\", in 1909. Mohandas Gandhi was stationed in South Africa at the time and just beginning his lifelong activist career. He then translated the letter himself, from the original English copy sent to India, into his native Gujarati.\n\nIn \"A Letter to a Hindu\", Tolstoy argued that only through the principle of love could the Indian people free themselves from colonial British rule. Tolstoy saw the law of love espoused in all the world's religions, and he argued that the individual, nonviolent application of the law of love in the form of protests, strikes, and other forms of peaceful resistance were the only alternative to violent revolution. These ideas ultimately proved to be successful in 1947 in the culmination of the Indian Independence Movement.\n\nIn this letter, Tolstoy mentions the works of Swami Vivekananda. This letter, along with Tolstoy's views, preaching, and his book \"The Kingdom of God Is Within You\", helped to form Mohandas Gandhi's views about nonviolent resistance.\n\nThe letter introduced Gandhi to the ancient Tamil moral literature, the Tirukkuṛaḷ, which Tolstoy referred to as the Hindu Kural. Gandhi then took to studying the Kural while in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17328116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17328116", "title": "Abdul-Rahman al-Barrak", "text": "Abdul-Rahman al-Barrak\n\nAbdul-Rahman bin Nasir al-Barrak (, born 1933 or 1934) is a Saudi Salafi cleric. \n\nIn 1994, al-Barrak and other Saudi clerics were mentioned by name and praised by Osama bin Laden for opposing then-Grand Mufti Abd al-Aziz ibn Baz in his .\n\nHis website was banned in Saudi Arabia because it was “promoting bold ideas and theses”.\n\nAl-Barrak has drawn attention for issuing controversial fatwas, or religious edicts. One such fatwa called for strict gender segregation. The fatwa states, \"Whoever allows this mixing ... allows forbidden things, and whoever allows them is a kafir and this means defection from Islam ... Either he retracts or he must be killed ... because he disavows and does not observe the Sharia.\"\n\nIn March 2008, al-Barrak issued a fatwa that two writers for the newspaper \"Al Riyadh\", Abdullah bin Bejad al-Otaibi and Yousef Aba al-Khail, should be tried for apostasy for their \"heretical articles\" regarding the categorization of \"unbelievers\" and put to death if they did not repent.\n"}
{"id": "628617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628617", "title": "Act of Abjuration", "text": "Act of Abjuration\n\nThe Act of Abjuration (, literally 'placard of abjuration') is the declaration of independence by many of the provinces of the Netherlands from the allegiance to Philip II of Spain, during the Dutch Revolt.\n\nSigned on 26 July 1581 in The Hague, the Act formally confirmed a decision made by the States General of the Netherlands in Antwerp four days earlier. It declared that all magistrates in the provinces making up the Union of Utrecht were freed from their oaths of allegiance to their lord, Philip, who was also King of Spain. The grounds given were that Philip had failed in his obligations to his subjects, by oppressing them and violating their ancient rights (an early form of social contract). Philip was therefore considered to have forfeited his thrones as ruler of each of the provinces which signed the Act.\n\nThe Act of Abjuration allowed the newly-independent territories to govern themselves, although they first offered their thrones to alternative candidates. When this failed in 1587 by, among other things, the Deduction of François Vranck the provinces became a republic in 1588.\n\nDuring that period the largest parts of Flanders and Brabant and a small part of Gelre were recaptured by Spain. The partial recapture of these areas to Spain led to the creation of Staats-Vlaanderen, Staats-Brabant, Staats-Overmaas and Spaans Gelre.\n\nThe Seventeen Provinces of the Habsburg Netherlands were united in a personal union by Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain Charles V with the incorporation of the duchy of Guelders in his Burgundian territories in 1544. They were constituted as a separate entity with his Pragmatic Sanction of 1549. His son, King Philip II of Spain, inherited these provinces on Charles' abdication in 1555. But this actually meant that he assumed the feudal title of each individual province, as Duke of Brabant, Count of Holland etc. There never was a single, unified state of the Netherlands, though the provinces were all represented in the States General of the Netherlands, since the Great Charter or Privilege of Mary of Burgundy of 10 February 1477.\n\nIn the Dutch Revolt, from 1568 several of these provinces rose in rebellion against Philip. At first they pretended just to have revolted against his viceroys, successively the Duke of Alba, Luis de Zúñiga y Requesens, John of Austria, and the Duke of Parma, while the stadtholders appointed by the provincial estates continued to pretend they represented Philip. This pretence was wearing thin, however, by the time of the Pacification of Ghent in 1576. When Don Juan attacked Antwerp and Namur in 1577, the States General, as the provincial estates did with the non-royalist stadtholders, appointed Archduke Matthias, Philip's nephew, as viceroy, without Philip's consent. Matthias was young and inexperienced, and brought no resources of his own to the battle with Philip. This became a serious problem, after the Duke of Parma started to make serious inroads against the tenuous unity of the Pacification with his Union of Arras of a number of southern Provinces, which the rebellious northern provinces answered with their own Union of Utrecht, both in 1579. Each union formed its own Estates General. William the Silent, the leader of the Dutch Revolt, therefore decided that the rebellious Netherlands should look for an overlord who could bring useful foreign allies. Francis, Duke of Anjou, the younger brother and heir-presumptive of King Henry III of France, was such a man. He did not wish to be someone else's viceroy, especially not of the Habsburg king. The rebel States General therefore offered him the sovereignty of the Netherlands, which he accepted by the Treaty of Plessis-les-Tours. (Holland and Zeeland did not join in the offer.) Meanwhile, Matthias was bought off with a generous annuity.\n\nThis, however, presented a problem: the magistrates of the cities and rural areas, and the provincial states themselves, had sworn allegiance to Philip. Oaths of allegiance were taken very seriously during this era. As long as the conflict with Philip could be glossed over these magistrates could pretend to remain loyal to the king, but if a new sovereign was recognised, they had to make a choice. The rebellious States General decided on 14 June 1581 to officially declare the throne vacant, because of Philip's behaviour, hence the Dutch name for the Act of Abjuration: \"Plakkaat van Verlatinghe\", which may be translated as \"Placard of Desertion.\" This referred not to desertion of Philip by his subjects, but rather, to a suggested desertion of the Dutch \"flock\" by their malevolent \"shepherd,\" Philip.\n\nA committee of four members – Andries Hessels, \"greffier\" (secretary) of the States of Brabant; Jacques Tayaert, pensionary of the city of Ghent; Jacob Valcke, pensionary of the city of Ter Goes (now Goes); and Pieter van Dieven (also known as Petrus Divaeus), pensionary of the city of Mechelen – was charged with drafting what was to become the Act of Abjuration. The Act prohibited the use of the name and seal of Philip in all legal matters, and of his name or arms in minting coins. It gave authority to the Councils of the provinces to henceforth issue the commissions of magistrates. The Act relieved all magistrates of their previous oaths of allegiance to Philip, and prescribed a new oath of allegiance to the States of the province in which they served, according to a form prescribed by the States General. The actual draft seems to have been written by an \"audiencier\" of the States General, Jan van Asseliers.\n\nThe Act was remarkable for its extensive Preamble, which took the form of an ideological justification, phrased as an indictment (a detailed list of grievances) of King Philip. This form, to which the American Declaration of Independence bears striking resemblance, has given rise to speculations that Thomas Jefferson, when he was writing the latter, was at least partly inspired by the Act of Abjuration.\n\nThe Preamble was based on \"Vindiciae contra tyrannos\" by Philippe de Mornay, and other works of monarchomachs may have been sources of inspiration also. The rebels, in their appeal to public opinion, may have thought it more important to quote \"authoritative\" sources and refer to \"ancient rights\" they wished to defend. By deposing a ruler for having violated the social contract with his subjects, they were the first to apply these theoretical ideas. Historian Pieter Geyl described the Act of Abjuration as a \"rather splendid, albeit late, expression of the sturdy medieval tradition of liberty,\" and noted that while the principles expressed in the act were derived from Calvinism, the document lacked a purely religious argument.\n\nIn order of appearance, these provinces are mentioned in the declaration: the Duchies of Brabant and Guelders, the Counties of Flanders, Holland and Zeeland, and the Lordships of Frisia, Mechelen and Utrecht. The provinces of Overijssel (which included Drenthe) and Groningen also seceded but are not separately mentioned as they strictly speaking were not separate entities but parts of Utrecht and Guelders, respectively. Large parts of Flanders and Brabant were later occupied again by the Spanish king.\n\nMany magistrates refused to take the new oath and preferred to resign from their offices. The Act therefore had the consequence of bringing about a wholesale change in the political makeup of many rebellious cities in the Netherlands, strengthening the radicals. Philip, of course, did not recognise the Act, nor the sovereignty of the Duke of Anjou. The Duke himself was not satisfied with his limited powers and he made an attempt to subjugate a number of cities, including Antwerp; the latter instead attacked his forces in what became known as the French Fury. This caused the States General to start looking for a different sovereign. After a first attempt to interest Elizabeth I of England in assuming sovereignty did not succeed, William the Silent was asked to assume the \"vacant\" title of Count of Holland, but he was assassinated in 1584, before the arrangements could be finalised. After the Treaty of Nonsuch Elizabeth agreed to send aid to the Dutch rebels after all, though without assuming sovereignty. Under the provisions of the treaty, Robert Dudley, 1st Earl of Leicester was appointed Governor-General of the Netherlands. However, like the \"reign\" of the Duke of Anjou, this proved to be a disappointment. After Leicester's departure in 1587 the States General decided to assume sovereignty themselves, thereby making the seven United Provinces a republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36885320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36885320", "title": "Alcatraz Library", "text": "Alcatraz Library\n\nAlcatraz Library was a library for inmates at Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary. It was located at the end of D-Block. On entering Alcatraz, every inmate received a library card and a catalog of books found in the library. An inmates ordered a book by putting a slip with their card in a box at the entrance to the dining hall before breakfast, and a librarian took the order to and from their cell. The library, which used a closed-stack paging system, had a collection of 10,000 to 15,000 books, mainly left over from Alcatraz's army days.\n\nInmates were permitted a maximum of three books in addition to up to 12 text books, a Bible, and a dictionary. They were permitted to subscribe to magazines but crime-related pages were torn out and newspapers were not prohibited. Sex, crime and violence were prohibited from all books and magazines, and the library was governed by a chaplain who regulated the censorship and the nature of the reading material to ensure that the material was wholesome. Failure to return books by the date given made the inmate liable to removal of privileges. A sign in the library today displays an extract from the Federal Bureau of Prisons booklet in 1960: \"These men read more serious literature than does the ordinary person in the community. Philosophers such as Kant, Schopenhauer, Hegel, etc. are especially popular.\" Other authors include Jack London, Sinclair Lewis, Washington Irving, Zane Grey, Hamilton Garland, Alexandre Dumas, Daniel Defoe, Joseph Conrad, Cervantes and magazines such as \"Adventure to Time\", \"Better Homes and Gardens\" and \"Library Digest\". A law library was later added to A-Block.\n\nA library scene in Alcatraz appeared in the 1979 Clint Eastwood film \"Escape from Alcatraz\" in which Eastwood's character of Frank Morris converses with another inmate.\n"}
{"id": "40417508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40417508", "title": "Alliance of European National Movements", "text": "Alliance of European National Movements\n\nThe Alliance of European National Movements (AENM) is a European political party that was formed in Budapest on 24 October 2009 by a number of ultranationalist and far-right parties from countries in Europe.\n\nAENM's founding members were Jobbik (the alliance was established during their sixth party congress), France's National Front, Italy's Tricolour Flame, Sweden's National Democrats and Belgium's National Front.\n\nAt the end of 2011, Marine Le Pen, the new French National Front leader, resigned from AENM and joined the European Alliance for Freedom (EAF).\n\nIn February 2016, Jobbik has cut all its affiliation with AENM and the president of AENM Béla Kovács left Jobbik.\n\nIn November 2009, the British National Party claimed that AENM had been extended to nine parties, but this information was not confirmed by AENM President Bruno Gollnisch in 2012.\n\nAt a press conference held in Strasbourg on 16 June 2010, the political leadership of AENM was confirmed as follows: President Bruno Gollnisch, Vice President Nick Griffin, Treasurer Béla Kovács and Secretary General Valerio Cignetti.\n\nAt the end of 2011 the National Front withdrew from AENM and joined the European Alliance for Freedom. However, Gollnisch an Jean-Marie Le Pen maintained their position in the organisation.\n\nIn October 2013, Marine Le Pen requested that Gollnisch and Jean-Marie Le Pen leave their positions in the AENM in order to join the more moderate EAF and so unify the French National Front under the EAF banner. Marine Le Pen has tried to \"de-demonize\" the party, i.e. to give it a more acceptable image. Cooperation with the openly racist and antisemitic parties present in AENM was seen as contradictory to these aims. On November 7, the two declared they have followed the request and left AENM. This also meant the end of Gollnisch's term as the AENM's chairman, a place occupied by Béla Kovács since January 2014.\n\nIn the spring of 2013, Svoboda lost its observer status after a conflict with other member groups over its policies towards ethnic minorities in the West of Ukraine. However, Svoboda maintained its informal affiliation with the group until March 2014, when it announced its withdrawal of its observer status from AENM citing several members of the alliance making \"statements supporting the Russian sponsored separatist forces and support for the Russian Armed Forces occupation of Ukrainian territory\". Béla Kovács, leader of the alliance, had served as an observer at the 2014 Donbass parliamentary election.\n\nThe current member parties of the AENM are the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6525262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6525262", "title": "Apparitional experience", "text": "Apparitional experience\n\nIn parapsychology, an apparitional experience is an anomalous experience characterized by the apparent perception of either a living being or an inanimate object without there being any material stimulus for such a perception. The person experiencing the apparition is awake, excluding dream visions from consideration.\n\nIn academic discussion, the term \"apparitional experience\" is to be preferred to the term \"ghost\" in respect of the following points:\n\nAttempts to apply modern scientific or investigative standards to the study of apparitional experiences began with the work of Edmund Gurney, Frederic W. H. Myers and Frank Podmore, who were leading figures in the early years of the Society for Psychical Research (founded in 1882). Their motive, as with most of the early work of the Society, was to provide evidence for human survival after death. For this reason they had a particular interest in what are known as ‘crisis cases’. These are cases in which a person reports having a hallucinatory experience, visual or otherwise, which apparently represents someone at a distance, this experience subsequently being considered to have coincided with that person’s death, or a significant life event of some kind. If the temporal coincidence of the crisis and the distant apparitional experience cannot be explained by any conventional means, then in parapsychology the presumption is made that some as yet unknown form of communication, such as telepathy (a term coined by Myers) has taken place.\n\nWhile it may be said that the work of Gurney and his colleagues failed to provide convincing evidence for either telepathy or survival of death, the large collection of firsthand written accounts which resulted from their methods may nevertheless be regarded as providing a valuable body of data concerning the phenomenology of hallucinations in the sane.\n\nA notable later discussion of apparitional experiences was that of G. N. M. Tyrrell, also a leading member of the Society for Psychical Research of his day. Tyrrell accepted the hallucinatory character of the experience, pointing out that it is virtually unknown for firsthand accounts to claim that apparitional figures leave any of the normal physical effects, such as footprints in snow, that one would expect of a real person. However, Tyrrell develops the idea that the apparition may be a way for the unconscious part of the mind to bring to consciousness information that has been paranormally acquired – in crisis cases, for example. He introduces an evocative metaphor of a mental ‘stage-carpenter’, behind the scenes in the unconscious part of the mind, and constructing the quasi-perceptual experience that eventually appears on the stage of consciousness, so that it embodies paranormal information in a symbolic way, a person drowning at a distance appearing soaked in water, for example.\n\nThe study and discussion of apparitions developed in a different direction in the 1970s, with the work of Celia Green and Charles McCreery. They were not primarily interested in the question of whether apparitions could shed any light on the existence or otherwise of telepathy, or in the survival question; instead they were concerned to analyse a large number of cases with a view to providing a taxonomy of the different types of experience, viewed simply as a type of anomalous perceptual experience or hallucination.\n\nOne of the points that was highlighted by their work was point (2) listed above, namely that ‘real-life’ accounts of apparitional experiences differ markedly from the traditional or literary ghost story. These are some of the more notable differences, at least as indicated by their own collection of 1800 firsthand accounts:\n\n\nApparitional experiences have relevance to psychological theories of perception, and in particular to the distinction between top-down and bottom-up approaches (cf. article on Top-down and bottom-up design). Top-down theories, such as that of Richard Langton Gregory, who conceives of perception as a process whereby the brain makes a series of hypotheses about the external world, stress the importance of central factors such as memory and expectation in determining the phenomenological content of perception; while the bottom-up approach, exemplified by the work of James J. Gibson, emphasises the role of the external sensory stimulus.\n\nApparitional experiences would seem to lend support to the importance of central factors, since they represent a form of quasi-perceptual experience in which the role of external stimuli is minimal or possibly non-existent, while the experience nevertheless continues to be phenomenologically indistinguishable from normal perception, at least in some cases.\n\nThe interest of apparitional experiences to psychology has acquired an added dimension in recent years with the development of the concept of schizotypy or psychosis-proneness. This is conceived of as a dimension of personality, continuously distributed throughout the normal population, and analogous to the dimensions of extraversion or neuroticism. As long as mental illness is regarded under the disease model, according to which a person either does or does not ‘have’ schizophrenia or manic depression, just as a person either does or does not have syphilis or tuberculosis, then to talk of the occurrence of an apparitional or hallucinatory experience in a normal person is either an oxymoron, or to be taken as an indication of latent or incipient psychosis. If, on the contrary, a dimensional view of the matter is taken, it becomes easier to conceive of how normal people, more or less high on the putative schizotypy dimension, might be more or less prone to anomalous perceptual experiences, without their ever tipping over into psychosis.\n\nGreen and McCreery’s identification of a class of what they called ‘reassuring apparitions’ is of particular interest in this regard, as it suggests that the experiencing of hallucinations may even have an adaptive effect in certain subjects, making them better able to cope with adverse life events. This would fit with the model of schizotypy as essentially a normal dimension of personality, and might help to explain why the proneness to anomalous perceptual experiences has apparently not been ‘weeded out’ by the process of natural selection.\n\nApparitional experiences also have implications for the philosophy of perception. The occurrence of hallucinations, that is, perceptual experiences 'having the character of sense perception, but without relevant or adequate sensory stimulation […]', have long been one of the standard objections to the philosophical theory of direct realism. According to this theory we are in some sense in direct contact with the external world when we seem to be perceiving it, and not merely in direct contact with some mediating representation in our mind, such as a sense-datum or an image, which may or may not correspond to external reality. The psychologist J.J. Gibson, referred to above, became an advocate of the philosophical theory of direct realism.\n\nHallucinatory experiences reported by sane people do not pose any new problem in principle for the theory of direct realism, other than that posed already by the more widely discussed hallucinations reported by people in a state of psychosis or under other abnormal conditions such as sensory deprivation. However, they do pose the problem in a particularly stark way, for the following reasons:\n\nIn the case of hallucinations reported to have occurred in pathological or abnormal states there is some scope for uncertainty about the accuracy, or even the meaning, of the percipient’s verbal report. Horowitz, for example, summarising his experience of questioning chronic schizophrenic patients about their visual experiences during painting sessions, wrote:\n\n'It was necessary to persist beyond initial verbal descriptions of their hallucinations, and insist that the patient describe and draw what he had seen. Initial descriptions of \"vicious snakes\" might then be drawn and redescribed as wavy lines. \"Two armies struggling over my soul\" arose from the subjective experience of seeing moving sets of dots. \"Spiders\" might be reduced, when the patient stated and drew what he actually saw, to a few radiating lines. In drawings of their hallucinations patients could often distinguish between those forms which duplicated what they saw with their eyes from those forms which were what they \"made out of it\".'\n\nSuch difficulties of interpretation are much less obvious in the case of written reports by ostensibly normal subjects, in good health and not medicated at the time of the experience.\n\nAs mentioned above, at least some of the apparitional experiences reported by normal subjects appear to mimic normal perception to such a degree that the subject is deceived into thinking that what they are experiencing actually is normal perception. Similar close mimicking of normal perception is reported by some of the subjects of a lucid dream and out-of-body experiences, which therefore pose similar problems for the theory of direct realism.\n\nApparitional experiences appear \"prima facie\" more compatible with the philosophical theory of representationalism. According to this theory, the immediate objects of experience when we are perceiving the world normally are representations of the world, rather than the world itself. These representations have been variously called sense-data or images. In the case of an apparitional experience one might say that the subject is aware of sense-data or images which happen not to correspond to, or represent, the external world in the normal way.\n\nThe philosophical implications of hallucinatory experiences in the sane are discussed by McCreery. He argues that they provide empirical support for the theory of representationalism rather than direct realism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006", "title": "Auschwitz concentration camp", "text": "Auschwitz concentration camp\n\nAuschwitz concentration camp was a network of concentration and extermination camps built and operated by Nazi Germany in occupied Poland during World War II. It consisted of (the original concentration camp), Auschwitz II–Birkenau (a combined concentration/extermination camp), (a labor camp to staff an IG Farben factory), and 45 satellite camps.\n\nAuschwitz I was first constructed to hold Polish political prisoners, who began to arrive in May 1940. The first extermination of prisoners took place in September 1941. Auschwitz II–Birkenau went on to become a major site of the Nazis' Final Solution to the Jewish Question during the Holocaust. From early 1942 until late 1944, transport trains delivered Jews to the camp's gas chambers from all over German-occupied Europe, where they were killed en masse with the cyanide-based poison Zyklon B, originally developed to be used as a pesticide. An estimated 1.3 million people were sent to the camp, of whom at least 1.1 million died. Around 90 percent of those were Jews; approximately one in six Jews killed in the Holocaust died at the camp. Others deported to Auschwitz included 150,000 Poles, 23,000 Romani and Sinti, 15,000 Soviet prisoners of war, 400 Jehovah's Witnesses, and tens of thousands of others of diverse nationalities, including an unknown number of homosexuals. Many of those not killed in the gas chambers died of starvation, forced labor, infectious diseases, individual executions, and medical experiments.\n\nIn the course of the war, the camp was staffed by 7,000 members of the German \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS), approximately 12 percent of whom were later convicted of war crimes. Some, including camp commandant Rudolf Höss, were executed. The Allied Powers did not act on early reports of atrocities at the camp, and their failure to bomb the camp or its railways remains controversial. At least 802 prisoners attempted to escape from Auschwitz, 144 successfully, and on 7 October 1944 two \"Sonderkommando\" units, consisting of prisoners assigned to staff the gas chambers, launched a brief, unsuccessful uprising.\n\nAs Soviet troops approached Auschwitz in January 1945, most of its population was sent west on a death march. The prisoners remaining at the camp were liberated on 27 January 1945, a day now commemorated as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. In the following decades, survivors such as Primo Levi, Viktor Frankl, and Elie Wiesel wrote memoirs of their experiences in Auschwitz, and the camp became a dominant symbol of the Holocaust. In 1947 Poland founded the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum on the site of Auschwitz I and II, and in 1979 it was named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.\n\nThe ideology of Nazism brought together elements of antisemitism, racial hygiene, and eugenics, and combined them with pan-Germanism and territorial expansionism with the goal of obtaining more \"Lebensraum\" (living space) for the Germanic people. Immediately after the Nazi seizure of power in Germany, acts of violence perpetrated against Jews became ubiquitous. The Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, passed on 7 April 1933 excluded most Jews from the legal profession and the civil service. Similar legislation soon deprived Jewish members of other professions of the right to practise. Harassment and economic pressure were used by the regime to encourage Jews to leave the country voluntarily. Their businesses were denied access to markets, forbidden to advertise in newspapers, and deprived of government contracts. German Jews were subjected to violent attacks and boycotts.\n\nIn September 1935, the Nuremberg Laws were enacted. These laws prohibited marriages between Jews and people of Germanic extraction, extramarital relations between Jews and Germans, and the employment of German women under the age of 45 as domestic servants in Jewish households. The Reich Citizenship Law stated that only those of Germanic or related blood were defined as citizens. Thus Jews and other minority groups were stripped of their German citizenship. The laws were expanded on 26 November 1935 to include Romani people and Afro-Germans. This supplementary decree defined Gypsies as \"enemies of the race-based state\", the same category as Jews. By the start of World War II in 1939, around 250,000 of Germany's 437,000 Jews had emigrated to the United States, Palestine, the United Kingdom, and other countries.\n\nNazi Germany invaded Poland in September 1939. German dictator Adolf Hitler ordered that the Polish leadership and intelligentsia be destroyed. Approximately 65,000 civilians, who were viewed as being inferior to the Aryan master race, were killed by the end of 1939. In addition to leaders of Polish society, the Nazis killed Jews, prostitutes, Romani, and the mentally ill. SS-\"Obergruppenführer\" Reinhard Heydrich, then head of the Gestapo, ordered on 21 September that Polish Jews should be rounded up and concentrated into cities with good rail links. Initially the intention was to deport the Jews to points further east, or possibly to Madagascar. Two years later, in an attempt to obtain new territory, Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, intending to deport or kill the Jews and Slavs living there.\n\nAfter this part of Poland was annexed by Nazi Germany, Oświęcim (Auschwitz) was located administratively in Germany, Province of Upper Silesia, Regierungsbezirk Kattowitz, Landkreis Bielitz. It was first suggested as a site for a concentration camp for Polish prisoners by \"SS-Oberführer\" Arpad Wigand, an aide to Higher SS and Police Leader for Silesia, Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski. Bach-Zelewski had been searching for a site to house prisoners in the Silesia region, as the local prisons were filled to capacity. Richard Glücks, head of the Concentration Camps Inspectorate, sent former Sachsenhausen concentration camp commandant Walter Eisfeld to inspect the site, which already held sixteen dilapidated one-story buildings that had once served as an Austrian and later Polish Army barracks and a camp for transient workers. \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler, head of the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS), approved the site in April 1940, intending to use the facility to house political prisoners. SS-\"Obersturmbannführer\" (lieutenant colonel) Rudolf Höss oversaw the development of the camp and served as the first commandant. SS-\"Obersturmführer\" (senior lieutenant) Josef Kramer was appointed Höss's deputy. Auschwitz I, the original camp, became the administrative center for the whole complex.\n\nLocal residents were evicted, including 1,200 people who lived in shacks around the barracks. Around 300 Jewish residents of Oświęcim were brought in to lay foundations. From 1940 to 1941, 17,000 Polish and Jewish residents of the western districts of Oświęcim were expelled from places adjacent to the camp. The Germans also ordered expulsions of Poles from the villages of Broszkowice, Babice, Brzezinka, Rajsko, Pławy, Harmęże, Bór, and Budy to the General Government. German citizens were offered tax concessions and other benefits if they would relocate to the area. By October 1943, more than 6,000 Reich Germans had arrived. The Nazis planned to build a model modern residential area for incoming Germans, including schools, playing fields, and other amenities. Some of the plans went forward, including the construction of several hundred apartments, but many were never fully implemented. Basic amenities such as water and sewage disposal were inadequate, and water-borne illnesses were commonplace.\n\nThe first prisoners (30 German criminal prisoners from the Sachsenhausen concentration camp) arrived in May 1940, intended to act as functionaries within the prison system. The first mass transport to Auschwitz concentration camp, which included Catholic prisoners, suspected members of the resistance, and 20 Jews, arrived from the prison in Tarnów, Poland, on 14 June 1940. They were interned in the former building of the Polish Tobacco Monopoly, adjacent to the site, until the camp was ready.\n\nThe inmate population grew quickly as the camp absorbed Poland's intelligentsia and dissidents, including the Polish underground resistance. By March 1941, 10,900 were imprisoned there, most of them Poles. By the end of 1940, the SS had confiscated land in the surrounding area to create a \"zone of interest\" surrounded by a double ring of electrified barbed wire fences and watchtowers. Like other Nazi concentration camps, the gates to Auschwitz I displayed the motto \"Arbeit macht frei\" (\"Work brings freedom\").\n\nThe victories of Operation Barbarossa in the summer and fall of 1941 against Hitler's new enemy, the Soviet Union, led to dramatic changes in Nazi anti-Jewish ideology and the profile of prisoners brought to Auschwitz. Construction on Auschwitz II-Birkenau began in October 1941 to ease congestion at the main camp. \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler, head of the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS), intended the camp to house 50,000 prisoners of war, who would be interned as forced laborers. Plans called for the expansion of the camp first to house 150,000 and eventually as many as 200,000 inmates. An initial contingent of 10,000 Soviet prisoners of war arrived at Auschwitz I in October 1941, but by March 1942 only 945 were still alive, and these were transferred to Birkenau, where most of them died from disease or starvation by May. By this time the Nazis had decided to annihilate the Jewish people, so Birkenau was changed to a labor camp–extermination camp. The Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum estimates that 1.3 million people, 1.1 million of them Jewish, were sent to the camp during its existence.\n\nThe chief of construction of Auschwitz II-Birkenau was Karl Bischoff. Unlike his predecessor, he was a competent and dynamic bureaucrat who, in spite of the ongoing war, carried out the construction deemed necessary. The Birkenau camp, the four crematoria, a new reception building, and hundreds of other buildings were planned and constructed. Bischoff's plans called for each barrack to have an occupancy of 550 prisoners (one-third of the space allotted in other Nazi concentration camps). He later changed this to 744 prisoners per barrack. The SS designed the barracks not so much to house people as to destroy them.\n\nThe first gas chamber at Birkenau was the \"red house\" (called Bunker 1 by SS staff), a brick cottage converted into a gassing facility by tearing out the inside and bricking up the windows. It was operational by March 1942. A second brick cottage, the \"white house\" or Bunker 2, was converted some weeks later. These structures were in use for mass killings until early 1943. Himmler visited the camp in person on 17 and 18 July 1942. He was given a demonstration of a mass killing using the gas chamber in Bunker 2 and toured the building site of the new IG Farben plant being constructed at the nearby town of Monowitz.\n\nIn early 1943, the Nazis decided to greatly increase the gassing capacity of Birkenau. Crematorium II, which had been designed as a mortuary with morgues in the basement and ground-level incinerators, was converted into a killing factory by installing gas-tight doors, vents for the Zyklon B (a highly lethal cyanide-based poison) to be dropped into the chamber, and ventilation equipment to remove the gas thereafter. It went into operation in March. Crematorium III was built using the same design. Crematoria IV and V, designed from the start as gassing centers, were also constructed that spring. By June 1943, all four crematoria were operational. Most of the victims were killed using these four structures.\n\nA separate camp for Roma known as the \"Zigeunerfamilienlager\" (Gypsy Family Camp) was set up at Auschwitz II-Birkenau; unlike other arrivals, the Romani prisoners were not subject to selection and families were allowed to remain together. The first transport of German Gypsies arrived on 26 February 1943, and was housed in Section B-IIe of Auschwitz II. Approximately 23,000 Gypsies had been brought to Auschwitz by 1944, 20,000 of whom died there. One transport of 1,700 Polish Sinti and Roma were killed in the gas chambers upon arrival, as they were suspected to be ill with spotted fever. Gypsy prisoners were used primarily for construction work. Thousands died of typhus and noma due to overcrowding, poor sanitary conditions, and malnutrition. Between 1,400 and 3,000 prisoners were transferred to other concentration camps. On 2 August 1944, the SS cleared the Gypsy camp; the surviving population (estimated at 2,897 to 5,600) was then killed en masse in the gas chambers.\n\nThe Theresienstadt family camp, which existed between September 1943 and July 1944, served a different purpose. The SS deported 17,500 Jews from Theresienstadt concentration camp to Auschwitz, but allowed them to remain alive temporarily and send letters to friends and relatives to cast doubt on reports of the Final Solution, both at Theresienstadt and in the wider world. On 8 March 1944, the remaining Jews from the first two transports in September were murdered; this was the largest massacre of Czechoslovak citizens in history. News of the liquidation reached the Czechoslovak government-in-exile which initiated diplomatic manoeuvers to save the remaining Jews. However, after the Red Cross visited Theresienstadt in June 1944 and concluded that no Jews were deported from Theresienstadt, about 3,500 Jews were removed from the family camp to other sections of Auschwitz. The remaining 6,500 were murdered in the gas chambers between 10 and 12 July 1944.\n\nAfter examining several sites for a new plant to manufacture buna, a type of synthetic rubber essential to the war effort, chemicals manufacturer IG Farben chose a site near the towns of Dwory and Monowice (Monowitz in German), about east of Auschwitz I and east of the town of Oświęcim. Financial support in the form of tax exemptions was available to corporations prepared to develop industries in the frontier regions under the Eastern Fiscal Assistance Law, passed in December 1940. In addition to its proximity to the concentration camp, which could be used as a source of cheap labor, the site had good railway connections and access to raw materials. In February 1941, Himmler ordered that the Jewish population of Oświęcim should be expelled to make way for skilled laborers that would be brought in to work at the plant. All Poles able to work were to remain in the town and were forced to work building the factory. Himmler visited in person in March and decreed an immediate expansion of the parent camp to house 30,000 persons. Development of the camp at Birkenau began about six months later. Construction of IG Auschwitz began in April, with an initial force of 1,000 workers from Auschwitz I assigned to work on the construction. This number increased to 7,000 in 1943 and 11,000 in 1944. Over the course of its history, about 35,000 inmates in total worked at the plant; 25,000 died as a result of malnutrition, disease, and the physically impossible workload. In addition to the concentration camp inmates, who comprised a third of the work force, IG Auschwitz employed slave laborers from all over Europe.\n\nAt first, the laborers walked the seven kilometers from Auschwitz I to the plant each day, but as this meant they had to rise at 03:00, many arrived exhausted and unable to work. The camp at Monowitz (also called Monowitz-Buna or Auschwitz III) was constructed and began housing inmates on 30 October 1942, the first concentration camp to be financed and built by private industry. In January 1943 the \"ArbeitsausbildungLager\" (labor education camp) was moved from the parent camp to Monowitz. These prisoners were also forced to work on the building site. The SS charged IG Farben three Reichsmarks per hour for unskilled workers, four for skilled workers. Although the camp administrators expected the prisoners to work at 75 percent of the capacity of a free worker, the inmates were only able to perform 20 to 50 percent as well. Site managers constantly threatened inmates with transportation to Birkenau for death in the gas chambers as a way to try to increase productivity. Deaths and transfers to the gas chambers at Birkenau reduced the prisoner population of Monowitz by nearly a fifth each month; numbers were made up with new arrivals. Life expectancy of inmates at Monowitz averaged about three months. Though the factory had been expected to begin production in 1943, shortages of labor and raw materials meant start-up had to be postponed repeatedly. The plant was almost ready to commence production when it was overrun by Soviet troops in 1945.\n\nVarious other German industrial enterprises, such as Krupp and Siemens-Schuckert, built factories with their own subcamps. There were 45 such satellite camps, 28 of which served corporations involved in the armaments industry. Prisoner populations ranged from several dozen to several thousand. Subcamps were built at Blechhammer, Jawiszowice, Jaworzno, Lagisze, Mysłowice, Trzebinia, and other centers as far afield as the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. Satellite camps were designated as \"Aussenlager\" (external camp), \"Nebenlager\" (extension or subcamp), or \"Arbeitslager\" (labor camp). Industries with satellite camps included coal mines, foundries and other metal works, chemical plants, and other industries.\n\nPrisoners were also made to work in forestry and farming. Budy was a farming subcamp where prisoners worked 12-hour days, often in the fields, but sometimes tending animals, cleaning ponds, digging ditches, and making compost. Human ashes from the crematorium were mixed with sod and manure to make the compost. The prisoner barracks at Budy also housed workers from nearby work sites, like the fish farm in Plawy. Meals at the worksite included herbal tea and a piece of bread with margarine or jam. The evening meal was a soup of rutabaga, rye, and nettles. Incidents of sabotage to decrease production took place in some subcamps, including Charlottengrube, Gleiwitz II, and Rajsko.\n\nIn mid-1944, about 130,000 prisoners were present in Auschwitz when the SS started to move about half of them to other concentration camps. In November 1944, with the Soviet Red Army approaching through Poland, Himmler ordered gassing operations to cease across the Reich. The crematorium IV building was dismantled, and the \"Sonderkommando\" were ordered to begin removing evidence of the killings, including the mass graves. The SS destroyed written records, and in the final week before the camp's liberation, burned or demolished many of its buildings. The plundered goods from the 'Canada' barracks at Birkenau together with building supplies were transported to the German interior. On 20 January, the overflowing warehouses were set ablaze. On the same day, the gas chambers as well as crematoria II and III at Birkenau were blown up. The raging fires lasted for several days. On 26 January 1945, the last crematorium V at Birkenau was demolished with explosives just one day ahead of the Soviet attack.\n\nHimmler ordered the evacuation of all camps in January 1945, charging camp commanders with \"making sure that not a single prisoner from the concentration camps falls alive into the hands of the enemy.\" On 17 January, 56,000–58,000 Auschwitz detainees, of whom two-thirds were Jews, were evacuated under guard, largely on foot, in severe winter conditions. Thousands of them died in the subsequent death march west towards Wodzisław Śląski. The guards shot all prisoners who were unable to march at the imposed pace. Peter Longerich estimates that a quarter of the detainees were thus killed. A column of inmates reached Gross-Rosen concentration camp complex. Throughout February, the terribly overcrowded main camp at Gross-Rosen was cleared, and all 44,000 inmates were moved further west. An unknown number died in this last journey. In March 1945, Himmler ordered that no more prisoners should be killed, as he hoped to use them as hostages in negotiations with the Allies. Approximately 20,000 Auschwitz prisoners made it to Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Germany, where they were liberated by the British in April 1945.\n\nWhen Auschwitz was liberated on 27 January 1945 by the 322nd Rifle Division of the Red Army, the soldiers found 7,500 prisoners alive and over 600 corpses. Among items found by the Soviet soldiers were 370,000 men's suits, 837,000 women's garments, and of human hair. The camp's liberation received little press attention at the time. In historian Laurence Rees' opinion, this was due to three factors: the previous discovery of similar crimes at Majdanek concentration camp, competing news from the Allied summit at Yalta, and the Soviet Union's interest, for propaganda purposes, in minimizing attention to Jewish suffering. Due to the vast extent of the camp area, at least four divisions took part in liberating the camp: 100th Rifle Division (established in Vologda, Russia), 322nd Rifle Division (Gorky, Russia), 286th Rifle Division (Leningrad), and 107th Motor Rifle Division (Tambov, Russia).\n\nAuschwitz II-Birkenau was liberated by the Red Army at around 3:30 p.m. on 27 January 1945, and the main camp (Auschwitz I) two hours later. Military trucks loaded with bread arrived the next day. Volunteers began to offer first aid and improvised assistance the following week. In early February, the Polish Red Cross hospital opened in blocks 14, 21, and 22 at Auschwitz I, headed by Dr. Józef Bellert and staffed by 30 volunteer doctors and nurses from Kraków, along with around 90 former inmates. The critically injured patients – estimated at several thousands – were relocated from Birkenau and Monowitz to the main camp. Some orphaned children were immediately adopted by Oświęcim residents, while others were transferred to Kraków, where a number of them were adopted by Polish families. Others were placed in an orphanage at Harbutowice.\n\nThe hospital cared for more than 4,500 patients (most of them Jews) from 20 countries, suffering from starvation, alimentary dystrophy, gangrene, necrosis, internal haemorrhaging, and typhoid fever. At least 500 patients died. Assistance was provided by volunteers from Oświęcim and Brzeszcze, who donated money and food, cleaned hospital rooms, delivered water, washed patients, cooked meals, buried the dead, and transported the sick in horse-drawn carts between locations. Securing enough food for thousands of former prisoners was a constant challenge. The hospital director personally went from village to village to collect milk.\n\nIn June 1945 the Soviet authorities took over Auschwitz I and converted it to a POW camp for German prisoners. The hospital had to move beyond the camp perimeter into former administrative buildings, where it functioned until October 1945.\n\nEarly on, many barracks at Birkenau were taken apart by civilians who used the materials to rebuild their own homes, levelled out in the construction of Auschwitz II. The poorest residents sifted the crematoria ashes in search of nuggets from melted gold, before the warning shots were fired. The POW camp for the German prisoners of war was used by the Soviet NKVD until 1947. In the two years, the Soviets dismantled and exported the IG Farben factories to the USSR. Meanwhile, Soviet and Polish investigators worked to document the war crimes of the SS. After the site became a museum in 1947, exhumation work lasted for more than a decade. Antoni Dobrowolski, the oldest known survivor of Auschwitz, died aged 108 on 21 October 2012, in Dębno, Poland.\n\nCamp commandant Rudolf Höss was pursued by the British Intelligence Corps, who arrested him at a farm near Flensburg, Germany, on 11 March 1946. Höss confessed to his role in the mass killings at Auschwitz in his memoirs and in his trial before the Supreme National Tribunal in Warsaw, Poland. He was convicted of murder, returned to Auschwitz and hanged at the site of his crimes on 16 April 1947.\n\nAround 12 percent of Auschwitz's 6,500 staff who survived the war were eventually brought to trial. Poland was more active than other nations in investigating war crimes, prosecuting 673 of the total 789 Auschwitz staff brought to trial. On 25 November 1947, the Auschwitz Trial began in Kraków, when Poland's Supreme National Tribunal brought to court 40 former Auschwitz staff. The trial's defendants included commandant Arthur Liebehenschel, women's camp leader Maria Mandel, and camp leader Hans Aumeier. The trials ended on 22 December 1947, with 23 death sentences, 7 life sentences, and 9 prison sentences ranging from three to fifteen years. Hans Münch, an SS doctor who had several former prisoners testify on his behalf, was the only person to be acquitted.\n\nOther former staff were hanged for war crimes in the Dachau Trials and the Belsen Trial, including camp leaders Josef Kramer, Franz Hössler, and Vinzenz Schöttl; doctor Friedrich Entress; and guards Irma Grese and Elisabeth Volkenrath. The Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials, held in West Germany from 20 December 1963 to 20 August 1965, convicted 17 of 22 defendants, giving them prison sentences ranging from life to three years and three months. Bruno Tesch and Karl Weinbacher, the owner and the chief executive officer of the firm Tesch & Stabenow, one of the suppliers of Zyklon B, were executed for knowingly supplying the chemical for use on humans.\n\nCamp guards were members of the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" (Death's Head Units). Around 7,000 SS personnel in total were posted to Auschwitz during the war. Of these, 4 percent of SS personnel were officers and 26 percent were non-commissioned officers, while the remainder were rank-and-file members. Approximately three in four SS personnel worked in security. Others worked in the medical or political departments, in the camp headquarters, or in the economic administration, which was responsible for the property of dead prisoners. SS personnel at the camp included 200 women, who worked as guards, nurses, or messengers. The overall command authority for the entire camp was Department D (the Concentration Camps Inspectorate) of the \"SS-Wirtschafts-Verwaltungshauptamt\" (SS Economics Main Office; SS-WVHA).\nAuschwitz was considered a comfortable posting by many SS members, due to its many amenities and the abundance of slave labor. Of the various prisoner groups, SS officers preferred Jehovah's Witnesses for household slaves because of their nonviolent behavior. Höss lived with his wife and children in a villa just outside the camp grounds. Other SS personnel were also initially allowed to bring fiancees, wives, and children to live at the camp, but when the SS camp grew more crowded, Höss restricted further arrivals. Facilities for the SS personnel and their families included a library, swimming pool, coffee house, and a theater that hosted regular performances.\n\nSome prisoners—usually Aryan—were assigned positions of authority, such as \"Blockschreiber\" (\"block clerk\"), \"Funktionshäftling\" (\"functionary\"), \"Kapo\" (\"head\" or \"overseer\"), and \"Stubendienst\" (\"barracks orderly\"). They were considered members of the camp elite, and had better food and lodgings than the other prisoners. The \"Kapos\" in particular wielded tremendous power over other prisoners, whom they often abused. Very few \"Kapos\" were prosecuted after the war, due to the difficulty in determining which \"Kapo\" atrocities had been performed under SS orders and which had been individual actions.\n\nAbout 120 SS personnel were assigned to the gas chambers and lived on site at the crematoria. Several SS personnel oversaw the killings at each gas chamber, while the bulk of the work was done by the mostly Jewish prisoners known as \"Sonderkommandos\" (special squads). \"Sonderkommando\" responsibilities included guiding victims to the gas chambers and removing, looting, and cremating the corpses.\n\nThe \"Sonderkommando\" were housed separately from other prisoners, in somewhat better conditions. Their quality of life was further improved by access to the goods taken from murdered prisoners, which \"Sonderkommandos\" were sometimes able to steal for themselves and to trade on Auschwitz's black market. Hungarian doctor Miklós Nyiszli reported that the \"Sonderkommando\" numbered around 860 prisoners when the Hungarian Jews were being killed in 1944. Many \"Sonderkommandos\" committed suicide due to the horrors of their work; those who did not generally were shot by the SS in a matter of weeks, and new \"Sonderkommando\" units were then formed from incoming transports. Almost none of the 2,000 prisoners placed in these units survived to the camp's liberation.\n\nThe prisoners' day began at 4:30 am (an hour later in winter) with morning roll call. Dr. Miklós Nyiszli describes roll call as beginning 3:00 am and lasting four hours. The weather was cold in Auschwitz at that time of day, even in summer. The prisoners were ordered to line up outdoors in rows of five and had to stay there until 07:00, when the SS officers arrived. Meanwhile, the guards would force the prisoners to squat for an hour with their hands above their heads or levy punishments such as beatings or detention for infractions such as having a missing button or an improperly cleaned food bowl. The inmates were counted and re-counted. The prisoners assigned to Mengele's staff slept in a separate barracks and were awoken at 07:00 for a roll call that only took a few minutes. Nyiszli describes how even the dead had to be present at roll call, standing supported by their fellow inmates until the ordeal was over. When he was a prisoner in 1944–45, five to ten men were found dead in the barracks each night. Anyone who was ill was sent to the hospital for a determination as to whether or not they would recover quickly; those who failed this assessment were killed by lethal injection. Mengele made weekly visits to the hospital barracks and sent to the gas chambers any prisoners who had not recovered after two weeks in bed.\n\nAfter roll call, the \"Kommando\", or work details, walked to their place of work, five abreast, wearing striped camp fatigues, no underwear, and ill-fitting wooden shoes without socks. A prisoner's orchestra (such as the Women's Orchestra of Auschwitz) was forced to play cheerful music as the workers left the camp. \"Kapos\" were responsible for the prisoners' behavior while they worked, as was an SS escort. The working day lasted 12 hours during the summer and a little less in the winter. Much of the work took place outdoors at construction sites, gravel pits, and lumber yards. No rest periods were allowed. One prisoner was assigned to the latrines to measure the time the workers took to empty their bladders and bowels.\n\nSunday was not a work day, but the prisoners did not rest; they were required to clean the barracks and take their weekly shower. Prisoners were allowed to write (in German) to their families on Sundays. Inmates who did not speak German would trade some of their bread to another inmate for help composing their letters. Members of the SS censored the outgoing mail.\nA second mandatory roll call took place in the evening. If a prisoner was missing, the others had to remain standing in place until he was either found or the reason for his absence discovered, regardless of the weather conditions, even if it took hours. After roll call, individual and collective punishments were meted out, depending on what had happened during the day, before the prisoners were allowed to retire to their blocks for the night and receive their bread rations and water. Curfew was two or three hours later. The prisoners slept in long rows of wooden bunks, lying in and on their clothes and shoes to prevent them from being stolen.\n\nAccording to Nyiszli, \"Eight hundred to a thousand people were crammed into the superimposed compartments of each barracks. Unable to stretch out completely, they slept there both lengthwise and crosswise, with one man's feet on another's head, neck, or chest. Stripped of all human dignity, they pushed and shoved and bit and kicked each other in an effort to get a few more inches' space on which to sleep a little more comfortably. For they did not have long to sleep\".\n\nThe types of prisoners were distinguishable by triangular pieces of cloth, called \"Winkel\", sewn onto on their jackets below their prisoner number. Political prisoners had a red triangle, Jehovah's Witnesses had purple, criminals had green, and so on. The nationality of the inmate was indicated by a letter stitched onto the \"Winkel\". Jews had a yellow triangle, overlaid by a second \"Winkel\" if they also fit into a second category. Uniquely at Auschwitz, prisoners were tattooed with their prisoner number, on the chest for Soviet prisoners of war and on the left arm for civilians. A racial hierarchy existed, with German prisoners at the top. Next were non-Jewish prisoners from other countries. Jewish prisoners were at the bottom.\n\nPrisoners received a hot drink in the morning, but no breakfast, and a thin meatless vegetable soup at noon. In the evening they received a small ration of moldy bread. Most prisoners saved some of the bread for the following morning. Nyiszli notes the daily intake did not exceed 700 calories, except for prisoners being subjected to live medical experimentation, who were better fed and clothed. Sanitary arrangements were poor, with inadequate latrines and a lack of fresh water. In Auschwitz II-Birkenau, latrines were not installed until 1943, two years after camp construction began. The camps were infested with vermin such as disease-carrying lice, and the inmates suffered and died in epidemics of typhus and other diseases. Noma, a bacterial infection occurring among the malnourished, was a common cause of death among children in the Gypsy camp.\nBlock 11 of Auschwitz I was the prison within the prison, where violators of the numerous rules were punished. Some prisoners were made to spend the nights in standing cells. These cells were about , and held four men; they could do nothing but stand, and were forced during the day to work with the other prisoners. Prisoners sentenced to death for attempting to escape were confined in a dark cell and given neither food nor water while being left to die. \n\nIn the basement were the \"dark cells\", which had only a very tiny window and a solid door. Prisoners placed in these cells gradually suffocated as they used up all the oxygen in the cell; sometimes the SS lit a candle in the cell to use up the oxygen more quickly. Many were subjected to hanging with their hands behind their backs for hours, even days, thus dislocating their shoulder joints.\n\nSelf-identifying Jews made every effort to observe Jewish tradition in the camps, despite the danger. Jews held it important to keep track of the Hebrew calendar, which was the key to determining the dates of the holy holidays, the Sabbath, and the Torah excerpts to be read each Sabbath. No watches, calendars, or clocks were allowed in the camps. Jewish calendars were rare amongst prisoners, as being in possession of one or making one was dangerous. Only two Jewish calendars made in Auschwitz survived to the end of the war. Prisoners kept track of the days in other ways, such as obtaining information from newcomers.\n\nOn 31 July 1941, Hermann Göring gave written authorization to Heydrich, Chief of the Reich Main Security Office (RSHA), to prepare and submit a plan for \"Die Endlösung der Judenfrage\" (the Final Solution of the Jewish question) in territories under German control and to coordinate the participation of all involved government organizations. The resulting \"Generalplan Ost\" (General Plan for the East) called for deporting the population of occupied Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union to Siberia, for use as slave labor or to be murdered. In addition to eliminating Jews, the Nazis also planned to reduce the population of the conquered territories by 30 million people through starvation in an action called the Hunger Plan. Food supplies would be diverted to the German army and German civilians. Cities would be razed and the land allowed to return to forest or resettled by German colonists.\n\nPlans for the total eradication of the Jewish population of Europe—eleven million people—were formalized at the Wannsee Conference on 20 January 1942. Some would be worked to death and the rest would be killed. Initially the victims were killed with gas vans or by \"Einsatzgruppen\" firing squads, but these methods proved impracticable for an operation of this scale. By 1942, killing centers at Auschwitz, Sobibór, Treblinka, and other Nazi extermination camps replaced \"Einsatzgruppen\" as the primary method of mass killing.\n\nThe first mass exterminations at Auschwitz took place in early September 1941, when 900 Soviet prisoners of war and ill inmates were killed by gathering them in the basement of Block 11 and gassing them with Zyklon B. This building proved unsuitable for mass gassings, so the site of the killings was moved to the crematorium at Auschwitz I (Crematorium I, which operated until July 1942). There, more than 700 victims could be killed at once. In order to keep the victims calm, they were told they were to undergo disinfection and de-lousing. They were ordered to undress outside and then were locked in the building and gassed. After its decommissioning as a gas chamber, the building was converted to a storage facility and later served as an air raid shelter for the SS. The gas chamber and crematorium were reconstructed after the war using the original components, which remained on site. Some 60,000 people were killed at Crematorium I.\n\nMass exterminations were moved to two provisional gas chambers (Bunkers 1 and 2), where the killings continued while the larger Crematoria II, III, IV, and V were under construction. Bunker 2 was temporarily reactivated from May to November 1944, when large numbers of Hungarian Jews were exterminated. In summer 1944 the capacity of the crematoria and outdoor incineration pits was 20,000 bodies per day. A planned sixth facility—Crematorium VI—was never built.\n\nPrisoners were transported from all over German-occupied Europe by rail, arriving in daily convoys. By July 1942, the SS were conducting \"selections\". Incoming Jews were segregated; those deemed able to work were sent to the selection officer's right and admitted into the camp, and those deemed unfit for labor were sent to the selection officer's left and immediately gassed. The group selected to die, about three-quarters of the total, included almost all children, women with small children, all the elderly, and all those who appeared on brief and superficial inspection by an SS doctor not to be completely fit.\n\nAfter the selection process was complete, those too ill or too young to walk to the crematoria were transported there on trucks or killed on the spot with a bullet to the head. The belongings of the arrivals were seized by the SS and sorted in an area of the camp called \"Canada\", so called because Canada was seen as a land of plenty. Many of the SS at the camp enriched themselves by pilfering the confiscated property.\n\nSS officers told the victims they were to take a shower and undergo delousing. The victims undressed in an outer chamber and walked into the gas chamber, which was disguised as a shower facility. Some were even issued soap and a towel. The Zyklon B was delivered by ambulance to the crematoria by a special SS bureau known as the Hygienic Institute. The actual delivery of the gas to the victims was always handled by the SS, on the order of the supervising SS doctor. After the doors were shut, SS men dumped in the Zyklon B pellets through vents in the roof or holes in the side of the chamber. The victims were dead within 20 minutes. Despite the thick concrete walls, screaming and moaning from within could be heard outside. In one failed attempt to muffle the noise, two motorcycle engines were revved up to full throttle nearby, but the sound of yelling could still be heard over the engines.\n\n\"Sonderkommando\" wearing gas masks then dragged the bodies from the chamber. The victims' glasses, artificial limbs, jewelry, and hair were removed, and any dental work was extracted so the gold could be melted down. The corpses were burned in the nearby incinerators, and the ashes were buried, thrown in the river, or used as fertilizer.\n\nThe gas chambers worked to their fullest capacity from April to July 1944, during the massacre of Hungary's Jews. Hungary was an ally of Germany during the war, but it had resisted turning over its Jews until Germany invaded that March. A rail spur leading directly into Birkenau was completed that May to deliver the victims closer to the gas chambers. From 14 May until early July 1944, 437,000 Hungarian Jews, half of the pre-war population, were deported to Auschwitz, at a rate of 12,000 a day for a considerable part of that period. The incoming volume was so great that the SS resorted to burning corpses in open-air pits as well as in the crematoria. The last mass transports to arrive in Auschwitz were 60,000–70,000 Jews from the Łódź Ghetto, some 2,000 from Theresienstadt, and 8,000 from Slovakia. The last selection took place on 30 October 1944.\n\nGerman doctors performed a wide variety of experiments on prisoners at Auschwitz. SS doctors tested the efficacy of X-rays as a sterilization device by administering large doses to female prisoners. Prof Dr Carl Clauberg injected chemicals into women's uteruses in an effort to glue them shut. Bayer, then a subsidiary of IG Farben, bought prisoners to use as research subjects for testing new drugs. Prisoners were also deliberately infected with spotted fever for vaccination research and exposed to toxic substances to study the effects.\n\nThe most infamous doctor at Auschwitz was Josef Mengele, known as the \"Angel of Death\". Particularly interested in research on identical twins, Mengele performed cruel experiments on them, such as inducing diseases in one twin and killing the other when the first died to perform comparative autopsies. He also took a special interest in dwarfs, and he deliberately induced noma in twins, dwarfs, and other prisoners to study the effects.\n\nKurt Heissmeyer took twenty Jewish children from Auschwitz to use in pseudoscientific medical experiments at the Neuengamme concentration camp. In April 1945, the children were killed by hanging to conceal the project.\n\nA skeleton collection was obtained from among a pool of 115 Jewish Auschwitz inmates, chosen for their perceived stereotypical racial characteristics. Rudolf Brandt and Wolfram Sievers, general manager of the \"Ahnenerbe\" (a Nazi research institute), were responsible for delivering the skeletons to the collection of the Anatomy Institute at the Reich University of Strasbourg in the Alsace region of Occupied France. The collection was sanctioned by Himmler and under the direction of August Hirt. Ultimately 87 of the inmates were shipped to Natzweiler-Struthof and killed in August 1943. Brandt and Sievers were later convicted in the Doctors' Trial in Nuremberg.\n\nThe exact number of victims at Auschwitz is difficult to fix with certainty, because many prisoners were never registered and much evidence was destroyed by the SS in the final days of the war. As early as 1942, Himmler visited the camp and ordered that \"all mass graves were to be opened and the corpses burned. In addition the ashes were to be disposed of in such a way that it would be impossible at some future time to calculate the number of corpses burned.\"\n\nShortly following the camp's liberation, the Soviet government stated that four million people had been killed on the site, a figure now regarded as greatly exaggerated. While under interrogation, Höss said that Adolf Eichmann told him that two and a half million Jews had been killed in gas chambers and about half a million more had died of other causes. Later he wrote, \"I regard the figure of two and a half million as far too high. Even Auschwitz had limits to its destructive possibilities\". Gerald Reitlinger's 1953 book \"The Final Solution\" estimated the number killed to be 800,000 to 900,000, and Raul Hilberg's 1961 work \"The Destruction of the European Jews\" estimated the number killed to be a maximum of 1,000,000 Jewish victims. French chemist and author Jean-Claude Pressac estimates that between 631,000 and 711,000 were killed at Auschwitz, of whom 470,000 to 550,000 were gassed.\n\nIn 1983, French scholar George Wellers was one of the first to use German data on deportations to estimate the number killed at Auschwitz, arriving at a figure of 1,471,595 deaths, including 1.35 million Jews and 86,675 Poles. A larger study started by Franciszek Piper used timetables of train arrivals combined with deportation records to calculate at least 960,000 Jewish deaths and at least 1.1 million total deaths, a figure adopted as official by the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum in the 1990s. Piper stated that a figure of as many as 1.5 million total deaths was possible.\n\nBy nation, the greatest number of Auschwitz's Jewish victims were from Hungary, accounting for 438,000 deaths, followed by Polish Jews (300,000 deaths), French (69,000), Dutch (60,000), and Greek (55,000). Fewer than one percent of Soviet Jews murdered in the Holocaust were killed in Auschwitz, as German forces had already been driven from Russia when the killing at Auschwitz reached its peak in 1944. Approximately 1 in 6 Jews killed in the Holocaust died at the camp.\n\nThe next largest group of victims were non-Jewish Poles, who accounted for 70,000 to 75,000 deaths. Twenty-one thousand Roma and Sinti were killed, along with 15,000 Soviet POWs and 10,000 to 15,000 peoples of other nations. Around 400 Jehovah's Witnesses were imprisoned at Auschwitz, at least 152 of whom died. An estimated 5,000 to 15,000 gay men prosecuted under German Penal Code Section 175 (proscribing sexual acts between men) were detained in concentration camps of which an unknown number were sent to Auschwitz; of those sent to Auschwitz 80 percent died.\n\nResistance groups were organised within the camp. Activities included acquiring additional food supplies, undertaking sabotage, and organising escape attempts. An armed uprising was planned for early 1942, but it never took place. Inmates were at times able to distribute information to the outside world via messages used in shortwave radio transmissions. The Polish government-in-exile in London first reported the gassing of prisoners on 21 July 1942. These reports were for a long time disregarded as exaggerated or unreliable by the Allied Powers, Germany's opponents in the West. Information regarding Auschwitz was also available to the Allies during the years 1940–43 by the accurate and frequent reports of Polish Home Army (Armia Krajowa) Captain Witold Pilecki. Pilecki was the only known person to volunteer to be imprisoned at Auschwitz concentration camp, spending 945 days there. He gathered evidence of genocide and organized resistance structures known as Związek Organizacji Wojskowej (ZOW) at the camp. His first report was smuggled to the outside world in November 1940, through an inmate who was released from the camp. He eventually escaped on 27 April 1943, but his personal report of mass killings was dismissed as exaggeration by the Allies, as were his previous reports.\n\nThe first information about Auschwitz concentration camp was published in winter 1940–41 in the Polish underground newspapers \"\" (Poland Lives) and \"Biuletyn Informacyjny\" (Newsletter). From 1942, members of the Bureau of Information and Propaganda of the Warsaw area Home Army published in occupied Poland a few brochures based on the accounts of escapees. The first of these was a fictional memoir \"Oświęcim. Pamiętnik więźnia\" (Auschwitz: Diary of a prisoner), written by Halina Krahelska and published in April 1942 in Warsaw. Also published in 1942 were the books \"Auschwitz: obóz śmierci\" (Auschwitz: Camp of Death) written by Natalia Zarembina, and \"W piekle\" (In Hell) by Zofia Kossak-Szczucka, the Polish writer, social activist and founder of Żegota.\n\nIn 1943, the \"Kampfgruppe Auschwitz\" (Combat Group Auschwitz) was organized with the aim of sending out information about what was happening. \"Sonderkommandos\" buried notes in the ground, hoping they would be found by the camp's liberators. The group also smuggled out photographs of corpses and preparations for mass killings in mid-1944.\n\nThe attitude of the Allies changed with receipt of the detailed, 32-page Vrba–Wetzler report, compiled by two Jewish prisoners, Rudolf Vrba and Alfréd Wetzler, who escaped on 7 April 1944. This report finally convinced Allied leaders that mass killings were taking place in Auschwitz. Details from the Vrba-Wetzler report were released to the Swiss press by diplomat George Mantello and printed on 6 June by \"The New York Times\". Auschwitz Plans originating with the Polish government were provided to the UK foreign ministry in August 1944. A Polish report about Auschwitz titled \"Oswiecim, Camp of Death (Underground Report)\" with a foreword by Florence Jaffray Harriman was published in English by the Polish Labor Group in New York in March 1944, before the camp's liberation. Gassing of prisoners from 1942 was described in this report.\n\nSlovak rabbi Michael Dov Weissmandl was the first to suggest, in May 1944, that the Allies bomb the rails leading to Auschwitz. At one point British Prime Minister Winston Churchill ordered that such a plan be prepared, but he was told that precision bombing the camp to free the prisoners or disrupt the railway was not technically feasible. Although the rails were never bombed, an intercepted cable mentioning the proposal convinced Hungarian regent Miklós Horthy that the Allied bombing of Budapest was connected to the deportation of the Hungarian Jews and was a major factor in his decision to stop the deportation in July 1944. In 1978, historian David Wyman published an essay titled \"Why Auschwitz Was Never Bombed\", arguing that the United States Army Air Forces had the capability to attack Auschwitz and should have done so; books by Bernard Wasserstein and Martin Gilbert raised similar questions about British inaction. Since the 1990s, other historians have argued that Allied bombing accuracy was not sufficient for Wyman's proposed attack, and that counterfactual history is an inherently problematic endeavor. The controversy over this decision has lasted to the present day in both countries.\n\nAt least 802 prisoners attempted to escape from the Auschwitz camps, mostly Polish or Soviet prisoners fleeing from work sites outside the camp. 144 were successful. The fates of 331 of the escapees are unknown. A common punishment for escape attempts was death by starvation; the families of successful escapees were sometimes arrested and interned in Auschwitz and prominently displayed to deter others. If someone did manage to escape, the SS picked ten people at random from the prisoner's block and starved them to death.\n\nA daring escape from Auschwitz was staged on 20 June 1942 by four Polish prisoners: Eugeniusz Bendera (an auto mechanic at the camp), Kazimierz Piechowski, Stanisław Gustaw Jaster, and Józef Lempart. After breaking into a warehouse, the four dressed as members of the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" (the SS units responsible for concentration camps), armed themselves, and stole an SS staff car, which they then drove unchallenged through the main gate.\n\nOn 24 June 1944, a Belgian-Polish Jew, Mala Zimetbaum, escaped with her Polish boyfriend, Edek Galiński, dressed in a stolen prisoner-guard uniform. They were later recaptured, tortured, and executed by the SS. On 21 July 1944, inmate Jerzy Bielecki, dressed in an SS uniform and using a faked pass, managed to cross the camp's gate together with his Jewish girlfriend, Cyla. Both survived the war.\n\nThe \"Sonderkommando\" units were aware that as witnesses to the killings, they themselves would eventually be killed to hide Nazi crimes. Though they knew that it would mean their deaths, the \"Sonderkommandos\" of Birkenau \"Kommando\" III staged an uprising on 7 October 1944, following an announcement that some of them would be selected to be \"transferred to another camp\"—a common Nazi ruse for the murder of prisoners. The \"Sonderkommandos\" attacked the SS guards with stones, axes, and makeshift hand grenades, which they also used to damage Crematorium IV and set it afire. As the SS set up machine guns to attack the prisoners in Crematorium IV, the \"Sonderkommandos\" in Crematorium II also revolted, some of them managing to escape the compound. The rebellion was suppressed by nightfall.\n\nUltimately, three SS guards were killed — one of whom was burned alive by the prisoners in the oven of Crematorium II — and 451 \"Sonderkommandos\" were killed. Hundreds of prisoners escaped, but were all soon captured and executed, along with an additional group who participated in the revolt. Crematorium IV was destroyed in the fighting, and a group of prisoners in the gas chamber of Crematorium V was spared in the chaos.\n\nIn the decades since its liberation, Auschwitz has become a primary symbol of the Holocaust. Historian Timothy D. Snyder attributes this to the camp's high death toll as well as to its \"unusual combination of an industrial camp complex and a killing facility\", which left behind far more witnesses than single-purpose killing facilities such as Chełmno or Treblinka. The United Nations General Assembly has designated 27 January, the date of the camp's liberation, as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. In a speech on the fiftieth anniversary of the liberation, German chancellor Helmut Kohl described Auschwitz as the \"darkest and most horrific chapter of German history\".\n\nNotable memoirists of the camp include Primo Levi, Elie Wiesel, and Tadeusz Borowski. In \"If This Is a Man\", Levi wrote that the concentration camps represented the epitome of the totalitarian system:\nElie Wiesel wrote about his own imprisonment at Auschwitz in \"Night\" (1960) and other works, and became a prominent spokesman against ethnic violence. In 1986, he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Camp survivor Simone Veil was later elected President of the European Parliament, serving from 1979 to 1982. Two Auschwitz victims—Maximilian Kolbe, a priest who volunteered to die by starvation in place of a stranger, and Edith Stein, a Jewish convert to Catholicism—were later named saints of the Catholic Church.\n\nOn 2 July 1947, the Polish government passed a law, establishing a state memorial to the victims of Nazism on the site of the camp. In 1955, an exhibition opened, displaying prisoner mug shots; hair, suitcases, and shoes taken from murdered prisoners; canisters of Zyklon B pellets; and other objects related to the killings. UNESCO added the camp to its list of World Heritage Sites in 1979. In 2011, the museum drew 1,400,000 visitors.\n\nPope John Paul II celebrated mass over the train tracks leading to the camp on 7 June 1979. In the decades following his visit, controversies erupted over a group of Carmelite nuns founding a convent on the site and erecting a large cross originally used in the pope's mass. Protesters objected to what they saw as Christianization of the site, while others argued that the cross's presence effectively recognized the camp's Catholic victims.\n\nOn 4 September 2003, three Israeli Air Force F-15 Eagles performed a fly-over of Auschwitz-Birkenau during a ceremony at the camp below. The flight was led by Major-General Amir Eshel, the son of Holocaust survivors. On 27 January 2015, some 300 Auschwitz survivors and other guests gathered under a giant tent at the entrance to Auschwitz II Birkenau to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the camp's liberation. Attendees included president of the World Jewish Congress Ronald Lauder, film director Steven Spielberg, and world leaders such as Polish president Bronisław Komorowski and King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands. As the number of remaining survivors decreases each year, the attendance at the event is unlikely to be surpassed at future major anniversaries.\n\nMuseum curators consider visitors who pick up items from the ground to be thieves, and local police will charge them as such. The maximum penalty is a prison sentence of ten years. On 22 June 2015, two British youths from the Perse School were convicted of theft after picking up buttons and shards of decorative glass they found on the ground near the area where camp victims' confiscated personal effects were stored. The boys, both 17 years old, received probation and were fined £170, but later appealed the sentence. Curators said that similar incidents happen once or twice a year.\n\nSome of the roads among postwar buildings nearby are named commemoratively, for example Więżniów Oświęcimia (translates as \"Prisoners of Oświęcim\"), Obozowa (\"Camp\"), Ostatni Etap (\"Last Stage\"), Spóldzielców (\"Co-op Workers\"), Ofiar Faszyzmu (\"Victims of Fascism\"), Piwniczna (\"Cellars\"), Wyzwolenia (\"Liberation\"), Maximiliana Kolbego (\"of Maximilian Kolbe\"). Stefana Jaracza (\"of Stefan Jaracz\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34393262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34393262", "title": "Backyard Ballistics", "text": "Backyard Ballistics\n\nBackyard Ballistics is a how-to book by William Gurstelle that was published in 2001. It is full of experiments that can be done relatively inexpensively and can be easily executed. It also includes the history and mechanical principles of some of the inventions and projects. From catapults to rockets, this book describes accessible ways to create these at home or in the classroom. In addition to recreational use by individuals, teacher's guides have been developed and science fair projects designed around this book. It has been cited in several educational and scientific journals.\n\n"}
{"id": "4851139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4851139", "title": "Baidu Baike", "text": "Baidu Baike\n\nBaidu Baike (; ) is a Chinese-language, collaborative, web-based encyclopedia owned and produced by the Chinese search engine Baidu. Its test version was released on 20 April 2006, and within three weeks the encyclopedia had grown to more than 90,000 articles, surpassing the number in Chinese Wikipedia. , Baidu Baike has more than 15.4 million articles.\n\nBaidu officially states that Baidu Baike serves as an online encyclopedia as well as information storage space for netizens. Baidu Baike claims \"equality\", \"cooperation\", \"sharing\" and \"freedom\" spiritually, and connect this online platform with search engines technically in order to fulfil the needs of the users for information of different levels. Critics of the encyclopedia note that it censors its content in accordance with the requirements of the Chinese government.\n\nBaidu's William Chang said at WWW2008, the conference of the World Wide Web Consortium, \"There is, in fact, no reason for China to use Wikipedia ... It's very natural for China to make its own products.\" When searching with the search engine Baidu, the link of the corresponding entry in Baidu Baike, if exists, will be put as the first result or one of the first results.\n\nThe current front page of Baidu Baike was put into use on 6 September 2012. At the top of the page the slogan \"Let all humanity learn the world equally,\" as well as current information on the number of users and entries. On the bottom-left of the front page selected contents are presented; the bottom right contains announcements, plans and projects, etc. The front page information usually includes current hot topics, often related to featured news. Beside those hot topics, there are also one-sentence summaries of the news. Other than the front page, Baidu Baike also includes channels such as nature, culture, geography, and special topics such as core-users, digital museums, etc.\n\nAll editors need to register an account before editing, and administrators filter all but the simplest edits before they go public. A phone number registered in mainland China is needed to register a new an account.\n\nThe entry pages of Baidu Baike include calling cards, texts, and other supporting information. An earlier version allowed users to comment on pages, but this feature was removed after September 2008. The main language used is Chinese, written using the Simplified script; posts written in Traditional Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, or Japanese are automatically translated.\n\nBaike calling cards contain two parts - the description of an entry and the basic information. The former is similar to the preface of an article, which provides a general introduction to the whole text; the latter uses a table to summarize basic information and statistics. Both are edited separately from the main body of the article. The main texts are limited to 40,000 bits, which is equivalent to 20,000 Chinese characters. At the end of the article is the declaration of exemption. The earlier version of the entry can only contain one image, but now 20 images and 20 albums can be included in an article. The entry can also link to a Baidu map, dynamic screenshots, and videos. Information cited is listed beneath the main text, which does not distinguish footnotes from other details. However, the images cited do not specify the source, but contain image directories.\n\nMost pieces of supporting information are located at the bottom or the right of the page, except scientific terms, which are pushed to the top. Usually, supporting information is automatically generated by the system, with some edited by hand. \nSupporting information on the right of the page contains personal information, statistics, today in history, contribution of honor, current trends, and pop-links. Statistics include the number of page views, the number of editors, latest updates, creators information, etc. Editors who contribute complex articles are also mentioned and honoured. \n\nA user can see a database, the Baidu Dictionary, and related entries at the bottom of each article. Celebrities' articles have appended databases that list their single songs, albums, and videos. The user recommendations section is used to collect feedback about the article. \n\n Editors are divided into 15 levels with corresponding 'Encyclopaedia titles' () based on their accumulated experience points. In 2012, the names of the titles were changed from modern corporate sounding titles to titles reminiscent of the Chinese Imperial examination and Confucian scholarship.\n\nUnlike a traditional encyclopedia, the information on Baidu Baike is broader, similar to Chinese Wikipedia and Hudong.com. Baidu Baike also includes food recipes, film products, internet programs, and video games as well as its encyclopedic content. However, unlike Chinese Wikipedia, Baidu Baike never gives a strict definition of the difference between an encyclopedia entry and a dictionary entry. There are also many explanations on diction and common phrases.\n\nIn addition to articles, Baidu Baike includes several special pages:\n\nBaidu Baike holds open policies on the addition of entries, and support categorized search functions. The categorization is based on the characteristics of an entry but not the quality, and there is no limit to categorization. Baidu Baike now has an elementary categorized page and tree. Part of the open categorization can be set according to levels, but catalogs having similar meaning can not be merged or redirected.\n\nAccording to the latest list of entries, Baidu Baike has an increase of about 3,800 entries per day. Here are some milestones:\nArticles or comments containing the following types of content are removed:\n\nBeing in the jurisdiction of the Chinese government, Baidu is required to censor content on their encyclopedia in accordance to relevant governmental regulations. All editors need to register accounts using their real names before editing, and administrators filter edits before they go public. Users on microblogging platforms generally perceive Baidu Baike as similar to a governmentally sanctioned information source due to the censorship of its content. An August 2013 survey observed the lack of articles on the 1989 Tiananmen Square Protests, the Xinjiang independence movement, or the Falun Gong movement.\n\n\"PCWorld\" states that complying with Chinese censorship laws gives Baidu Baike an advantage over its competitors. Since the Chinese version of Wikipedia does not censor its own content, the government may block it while keeping Baidu Baike accessible.\n\nBaidu Baike's copyright policy is outlined in the \"Terms of Use\" section of its help page. It states that by adding content to the site, users agree to assign Baidu rights to their original contributions. It also states that users cannot violate intellectual property law, and that contributions which quote works held under the Creative Commons and/or GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) must follow the restrictions of those licenses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1047161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1047161", "title": "Chapters and verses of the Bible", "text": "Chapters and verses of the Bible\n\nThe Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at different times by a variety of authors, and later assembled into the biblical canon. Since the early 13th century, most copies and editions of the Bible present all but the shortest of these books with divisions into chapters, generally a page or so in length. Since the mid-16th century editors have further subdivided each chapter into verses - each consisting of a few short lines or sentences. Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the case of , and sometimes there is more than one sentence in a single verse, as in the case of .\n\nAs the chapter and verse divisions did not appear in the original texts, they form part of the paratext of the Bible.\n\nThe Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at various points from those used by Christians. For instance, in Jewish tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses or parts of the subsequent verses, making 116 more verses, whereas established Christian practice treats each Psalm ascription as independent and unnumbered. Some chapter divisions also occur in different places, e.g. Hebrew Bibles have where Christian translations have .\n\nEarly manuscripts of the biblical texts did not contain the chapter and verse divisions in the numbered form familiar to modern readers. In antiquity Hebrew texts were divided into paragraphs (parashot) that were identified by two letters of the Hebrew alphabet. Peh פ indicated an \"open\" paragraph that began on a new line, while Samekh ס indicated a \"closed\" paragraph that began on the same line after a small space. These two letters begin the Hebrew words open (patuach\") and closed (sagoor\"), and are, themselves, open פ and closed ס. The earliest known copies of the Book of Isaiah from the Dead Sea Scrolls used parashot divisions, although they differ slightly from the Masoretic divisions. (This is different from the use of consecutive letters of the Hebrew alphabet to structure certain poetic compositions, known as acrostics, such as several of the Psalms and most of the Book of Lamentations.)\n\nThe Hebrew Bible was also divided into some larger sections. In Israel the Torah (its first five books) were divided into 154 sections so that they could be read through aloud in weekly worship over the course of three years. In Babylonia it was divided into 53 or 54 sections (Parashat ha-Shavua) so it could be read through in one year. The New Testament was divided into topical sections known as \"kephalaia\" by the fourth century. Eusebius of Caesarea divided the gospels into parts that he listed in tables or \"canons\". Neither of these systems corresponds with modern chapter divisions. (See fuller discussions below.)\n\nChapter divisions, with titles, are also found in the 9th century Tours manuscript, Paris Bibliothèque Nationale MS Lat. 3, the so-called Bible of Rorigo.\n\nArchbishop Stephen Langton and Cardinal Hugo de Sancto Caro developed different schemas for systematic division of the Bible in the early 13th century. It is the system of Archbishop Langton on which the modern chapter divisions are based.\n\nWhile chapter divisions have become nearly universal, editions of the Bible have sometimes been published without them. Such editions, which typically use thematic or literary criteria to divide the biblical books instead, include John Locke's \"Paraphrase and Notes on the Epistles of St. Paul\" (1707), Alexander Campbell's \"The Sacred Writings\" (1826), Daniel Berkeley Updike’s fourteen-volume \"The Holy Bible Containing the Old and New Testaments and the Apocrypha,\" Richard Moulton's \"The Modern Reader's Bible\" (1907), Ernest Sutherland Bates's \"The Bible Designed to Be Read as Living Literature\" (1936), \"The Books of the Bible\" (2007) from the International Bible Society (Biblica), Adam Lewis Greene’s five-volume \"Bibliotheca\" (2014), and the six-volume ESV Reader's Bible (2016) from Crossway Books.\n\nSince at least 916 the Tanakh has contained an extensive system of multiple levels of section, paragraph, and phrasal divisions that were indicated in Masoretic vocalization and cantillation markings. One of the most frequent of these was a special type of punctuation, the \"sof passuq\", symbol for a full stop or sentence break, resembling the colon (:) of English and Latin orthography. With the advent of the printing press and the translation of the Bible into English, Old Testament versifications were made that correspond predominantly with the existing Hebrew full stops, with a few isolated exceptions. Most attribute these to Rabbi Isaac Nathan ben Kalonymus's work for the first Hebrew Bible concordance around 1440.\n\nThe first person to divide New Testament chapters into verses was Italian Dominican biblical scholar Santi Pagnini (1470–1541), but his system was never widely adopted. His verse divisions in the New Testament were far longer than those known today. Robert Estienne created an alternate numbering in his 1551 edition of the Greek New Testament which was also used in his 1553 publication of the Bible in French. Estienne's system of division was widely adopted, and it is this system which is found in almost all modern Bibles. Estienne produced a 1555 Vulgate that is the first Bible to include the verse numbers integrated into the text. Before this work, they were printed in the margins.\n\nThe first English New Testament to use the verse divisions was a 1557 translation by William Whittingham (c. 1524–1579). The first Bible in English to use both chapters and verses was the Geneva Bible published shortly afterwards in 1560. These verse divisions soon gained acceptance as a standard way to notate verses, and have since been used in nearly all English Bibles and the vast majority of those in other languages. (Nevertheless, some Bibles have removed the verse numbering, including the ones noted above that also removed chapter numbers; a recent example of an edition that removed only verses, not chapters, is \"The Message: The Bible in Contemporary Language\" by Eugene H. Peterson.)\n\nThe Hebrew Masoretic text of the Bible notes several different kinds of subdivisions within the biblical books:\n\nMost important are the verse endings. According to the Talmudic tradition, the division of the text into verses is of ancient origin. In Masoretic versions of the Bible, the end of a verse is indicated by a small mark in its final word called a \"silluq\" (which means \"stop\"). Less formally, verse endings are usually also indicated by two horizontal dots following the word with a \"silluq\".\n\nThe Masoretic textual tradition also contains section endings called \"parashot\", which are usually indicated by a space within a line (a \"closed\" section) or a new line beginning (an \"open\" section). The division of the text reflected in the \"parashot\" is usually thematic. Unlike chapters, the \"parashot\" are not numbered, but some of them have special titles.\n\nIn early manuscripts (most importantly in Tiberian Masoretic manuscripts, such as the Aleppo codex), an \"open\" section may also be represented by a blank line, and a \"closed\" section by a new line that is slightly indented (the preceding line may also not be full). These latter conventions are no longer used in Torah scrolls and printed Hebrew Bibles. In this system, the one rule differentiating \"open\" and \"closed\" sections is that \"open\" sections must \"always\" start at the beginning of a new line, while \"closed\" sections \"never\" start at the beginning of a new line.\n\nAnother division of the biblical books found in the Masoretic text is the division of the \"sedarim\". This division is not thematic, but is almost entirely based upon the \"quantity\" of text. For the Torah, this division reflects the triennial cycle of reading that was practiced by the Jews of the Land of Israel.\n\nThe Byzantines also introduced a concept roughly similar to chapter divisions, called \"kephalaia\" (singular \"kephalaion\", literally meaning \"heading\"). This system, which was in place no later than the 5th century, is not identical to the present chapters. Unlike the modern chapters, which tend to be of roughly similar length, the distance from one \"kephalaion\" mark to the next varied greatly in length both within a book and from one book to the next. For example, the Sermon on the Mount, comprising three chapters in the modern system, has but one \"kephalaion\" mark, while the single modern chapter 8 of the Gospel of Matthew has several, one per miracle. Moreover, there were far fewer \"kephalaia\" in the Gospel of John than in the Gospel of Mark, even though the latter is the shorter text. In the manuscripts, the \"kephalaia\" with their numbers, their standard titles (\"titloi\") and their page numbers would be listed at the beginning of each biblical book; in the book's main body, they would be marked only with arrow-shaped or asterisk-like symbols in the margin, not in the text itself.\n\nThe titles usually referred to the first event or the first theological point of the section only, and some \"kephalaia\" are manifestly incomplete if one stops reading at the point where the next \"kephalaion\" begins (for example, the combined accounts of the miracles of the Daughter of Jairus and of the healing of the woman with a haemorrhage gets two marked \"kephalaia\", one titled \"of the daughter of the synagogue ruler\" at the beginning when the ruler approaches Jesus and one titled \"of the woman with the flow of blood\" where the woman enters the picture – well before the ruler's daughter is healed and the storyline of the previous \"kephalaion\" is thus properly concluded). Thus the \"kephalaia\" marks are rather more like a system of bookmarks or links into a continuous text, helping a reader to quickly find one of several well-known episodes, than like a true system of chapter divisions.\n\nCardinal Hugo de Sancto Caro is often given credit for first dividing the Latin Vulgate into chapters in the real sense, but it is the arrangement of his contemporary and fellow cardinal Stephen Langton who in 1205 created the chapter divisions which are used today. They were then inserted into Greek manuscripts of the New Testament in the 16th century. Robert Estienne (Robert Stephanus) was the first to number the verses within each chapter, his verse numbers entering printed editions in 1551 (New Testament) and 1571 (Hebrew Bible).\n\nThe division of the Bible into chapters and verses has received criticism from some traditionalists and modern scholars. Critics state that the text is often divided in an incoherent way, or at inappropriate rhetorical points, and that it encourages citing passages out of context. Nevertheless, the chapter and verse numbers have become indispensable as technical references for Bible study.\n\nSeveral modern publications of the Bible have eliminated numbering of chapters and verses. Biblica published such a version of the NIV in 2007 and 2011. In 2014, Crossway published the ESV Reader's Bible and \"Bibliotheca\" published a modified ASV. Projects such as Icthus also exist which strip chapter and verse numbers from existing translations.\n\nThe number of words can vary depending upon aspects such as whether the Hebrew alphabet in Psalm 119, the superscriptions listed in some of the Psalms, and the subscripts traditionally found at the end of the Pauline epistles, are included.\nExcept where stated, the following apply to the King James Version of the Bible in its modern 66-book Protestant form including the New Testament and the protocanonical Old Testament, not the deuterocanonical books.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44367521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44367521", "title": "Chronicle of the Grey Friars of London", "text": "Chronicle of the Grey Friars of London\n\nThe Greyfriars' Chronicle was a chronicle during the Tudor period. It was published in 1852 and was edited by J.G. Nichols. It documents political and religious events in and around London, England from the reign of Richard I to the reign of Mary I. Most of its content is sixteenth century.\n"}
{"id": "168320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168320", "title": "Columbia Encyclopedia", "text": "Columbia Encyclopedia\n\nThe Columbia Encyclopedia is a one-volume encyclopedia produced by Columbia University Press and in the last edition, sold by the Gale Group. First published in 1935, and continuing its relationship with Columbia University, the encyclopedia underwent major revisions in 1950 and 1963; the current edition is the sixth, printed in 2000. It contains over 51,000 articles totaling some 6.5 million words and has also been published in two volumes.\n\nAn electronic version of the encyclopedia is available, and the \"Columbia Encyclopedia\" is licensed by several different companies for use over the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "5980612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5980612", "title": "Comparison of birth control methods", "text": "Comparison of birth control methods\n\nThere are many different methods of birth control, which vary in what is required of the user, side effects, and effectiveness. It is also important to note that not each type of birth control is ideal for each user. Outlined here are the different types of barrier methods, spermicides, or coitus interruptus that must be used at or before every act of intercourse. Immediate contraception, like physical barriers, include diaphragms, caps, the contraceptive sponge, and female condoms may be placed several hours before intercourse begins (note that when using the female condom, the penis must be guided into place when initiating intercourse). The female condom should be removed immediately after intercourse, and before arising. Some other female barrier methods must be left in place for several hours after sex. Depending on the form of spermicide used, they may be applied several minutes to an hour before intercourse begins. Additionally, the male condom should be applied when the penis is erect so that it is properly applied prior to intercourse.\n\nWith an insertion of an IUD (intrauterine device), female or male sterilization, or hormone implant, there is very little required of the user post initial procedure; there is nothing to put in place before intercourse to prevent pregnancy. Intrauterine methods require clinic visits for installation and removal or replacement (if desired) only once every several years (5-12), depending on the device. This allows the user to be able to try and become pregnant if they so desire, upon removal of the IUD. Conversely, sterilization is a one-time, permanent procedure. After the success of surgery is verified (for vasectomy), no subsequent action is usually required of users.\n\nImplants provide effective birth control for three years without any user action between insertion and removal of the implant. Insertion and removal of the Implant involves a minor surgical procedure. Oral contraceptives require some action every day. Other hormonal methods require less frequent action - weekly for the patch, twice a month for vaginal ring, monthly for combined injectable contraceptive, and every twelve weeks for MPA shots. Fertility awareness-based methods require some action every day to monitor and record fertility signs. The lactational amenorrhea method (LAM) requires breast feeding at least every four to six hours.\n\nDifferent methods require different levels of diligence by users. Methods with little or nothing to do or remember, or that require a clinic visit less than once per year are said to be \"non-user dependent\", \"forgettable\" or \"top-tier\" methods. Intrauterine methods, implants and sterilization fall into this category. For methods that are not user dependent, the actual and perfect-use failure rates are very similar.\n\nMany hormonal methods of birth control, and LAM require a moderate level of thoughtfulness. For many hormonal methods, clinic visits must be made every three months to a year to renew the prescription. The pill must be taken every day, the patch must be reapplied weekly, or the ring must be replaced monthly. Injections are required every 12 weeks. The rules for LAM must be followed every day. Both LAM and hormonal methods provide a reduced level of protection against pregnancy if they are occasionally used incorrectly (rarely going longer than 4–6 hours between breastfeeds, a late pill or injection, or forgetting to replace a patch or ring on time). The actual failure rates for LAM and hormonal methods are somewhat higher than the perfect-use failure rates.\n\nHigher levels of user commitment are required for other methods. Barrier methods, coitus interruptus, and spermicides must be used at every act of intercourse. Fertility awareness-based methods may require daily tracking of the menstrual cycle. The actual failure rates for these methods may be much higher than the perfect-use failure rates.\n\nDifferent forms of birth control have different potential side effects. Not all, or even most, users will experience side effects from a method.\n\nThe less effective the method, the greater the risk of the side-effects associated with pregnancy.\n\nMinimal or no other side effects are possible with coitus interruptus, fertility awareness-based, and LAM. Some forms of periodic abstinence encourage examination of the cervix; insertion of the fingers into the vagina to perform this examination may cause changes in the vaginal environment. Following the rules for LAM may delay a woman's first post-partum menstruation beyond what would be expected from different breastfeeding practices.\n\nBarrier methods have a risk of allergic reaction. Users sensitive to latex may use barriers made of less allergenic materials - polyurethane condoms, or silicone diaphragms, for example. Barrier methods are also often combined with spermicides, which have possible side effects of genital irritation, vaginal infection, and urinary tract infection.\n\nSterilization procedures are generally considered to have low risk of side effects, though some persons and organizations disagree. Female sterilization is a more significant operation than vasectomy, and has greater risks; in industrialized nations, mortality is 4 per 100,000 tubal ligations, versus 0.1 per 100,000 vasectomies.\n\nAfter IUD insertion, users may experience irregular periods in the first 3–6 months with Mirena, and sometimes heavier periods and worse menstrual cramps with ParaGard. However, \"ninety-nine percent of IUD users are pleased with them\". A positive characteristic of IUDs is that fertility and the ability to become pregnant returns quickly once the IUD is removed. \nBecause of their systemic nature, hormonal methods have the largest number of possible side effects.\n\nMale and female condoms provide significant protection against sexually transmitted diseases (STD) when used consistently and correctly. They also provide some protection against cervical cancer. Condoms are often recommended as an adjunct to more effective birth control methods (such as IUD) in situations where STD protection is also desired.\n\nOther barrier methods, such as diaphragm may provide limited protection against infections in the upper genital tract. Other methods provide little or no protection against sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nFailure rates may be calculated by either the Pearl Index or a life table method. A \"perfect-use\" rate is where any rules of the method are rigorously followed, and (if applicable) the method is used at every act of intercourse.\n\nActual failure rates are higher than perfect-use rates for a variety of reasons:\n\nFor instance, someone using oral forms of hormonal birth control might be given incorrect information by a health care provider as to the frequency of intake, or for some reason not take the pill one or several days, or not go to the pharmacy on time to renew the prescription, or the pharmacy might be unwilling to provide enough pills to cover an extended absence.\n\nThe table below color codes the typical-use and perfect-use failure rates, where the failure rate is measured as the expected number of pregnancies per year per woman using the method:\n\nFor example, a failure rate of 20% means that 20 of 100 women become pregnant during the first year of use. Note that the rate may go above 100% if all women, on average, become pregnant within less than a year. In the degenerated case of all women becoming pregnant instantly, the rate would be infinite.\n\nIn the user action required column, items that are \"non-user dependent\" (require action once per year or less) also have a blue background.\n\nSome methods may be used simultaneously for higher effectiveness rates. For example, using condoms with spermicides the estimated perfect use failure rate would be comparable to the perfect use failure rate of the implant. However, mathematically combining the rates to estimate the effectiveness of combined methods can be inaccurate, as the effectiveness of each method is not necessarily independent, except in the perfect case.\n\nIf a method is known or suspected to have been ineffective, such as a condom breaking, emergency contraception (ECP) may be taken up to 72 to 120 hours after sexual intercourse. Emergency contraception should be taken shortly before or as soon after intercourse as possible, as its efficacy decreases with increasing delay. Although ECP is considered an emergency measure, levonorgestrel ECP taken shortly before sex may be used as a primary method for woman who have sex only a few times a year and want a hormonal method, but don’t want to take hormones all the time. Failure rate of repeated or regular use of LNG ECP is similar to rate for those using a barrier method.\n\nThis table lists the rate of pregnancy during the first year of use.\n\nFamily planning is among the most cost-effective of all health interventions. Costs of contraceptives include method costs (including supplies, office visits, training), cost of method failure (ectopic pregnancy, spontaneous abortion, induced abortion, birth, child care expenses) and cost of side effects. Contraception saves money by reducing unintended pregnancies and reducing transmission of sexually transmitted infections. By comparison, in the US, method related costs vary from nothing to about $1,000 for a year or more of reversible contraception.\n\nDuring the initial five years, vasectomy is comparable in cost to the IUD. Vasectomy is much less expensive and safer than tubal ligation.\n\nSince ecological breastfeeding and fertility awareness are behavioral they cost nothing or a small amount upfront for a thermometer and / or training. Fertility awareness based methods can be used throughout a woman's reproductive lifetime.\n\nNot using contraceptives is the most expensive option. While in that case there are no method related costs, it has the highest failure rate, and thus the highest failure related costs. Even if one only considers medical costs relating to preconception care and birth, any method of contraception saves money compared to using no method.\n\nThe most effective and the most cost-effective methods are long-acting methods. Unfortunately these methods often have significant up-front costs, requiring the user to pay a portion of these costs prevents some from using more effective methods. Contraception saves money for the public health system and insurers.\n"}
{"id": "2927989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2927989", "title": "Encyclopedic dictionary", "text": "Encyclopedic dictionary\n\nAn encyclopedic dictionary typically includes a large number of short listings, arranged alphabetically, and discussing a wide range of topics. Encyclopedic dictionaries can be general, containing articles on topics in many different fields; or they can specialize in a particular field, such as art, biography, law, medicine, or philosophy. They may also be organized around a particular academic, cultural, ethnic, or national perspective.\n\nHistorically, the term has been used to refer to any encyclopedic reference book (that is, one comprehensive in scope), which was organized alphabetically, as with the familiar dictionary. (The term \"dictionary\" preceded \"encyclopedia\" in common usage by about two centuries.) To convey their alphabetic method of organization and to contrast that method with other systems for classifying knowledge, many early encyclopedias were titled or sub-titled \"a dictionary of arts and sciences\" or something similar.\n\nHowever, it later developed into a somewhat distinct class of reference books. While there are similarities to both dictionaries and encyclopedias, there are important distinctions as well: \n\n\nCompared to a dictionary, the encyclopedic dictionary offers a more complete description and a choice of entries selected to convey a range of knowledge. Compared to an encyclopedia, the encyclopedic dictionary offers ease of use, through summarized entries and in some cases more entries of separate terms; and often reduced size, and the reduced publishing and purchase cost that implies.\n\nThe question of how to structure the entries, and how much information to include, are among the core issues in organizing reference books. As different approaches are better suited to different uses or users, all three approaches have been in wide use since the end of the 18th century.\n\nThe title of the volume may not be a good indication of which type of reference it is, as commercial concerns may have affected the publisher's selection of a title.\n\nThe encyclopedic dictionary evolved from the dictionary. John Harris subtitled his landmark \"Lexicon Technicum\" a \"universal English dictionary of Arts and Sciences\"; it was the first English-language, alphabetically ordered collection of knowledge.\n\nThe 18th-century encyclopedists, in turn, dramatically expanded the depth and, in some cases, substantially revised the organization of the encyclopedic dictionary to create the early major encyclopedias, the French \"Encyclopédie\" and later the British \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". However, such comprehensive works were costly and difficult to produce, and to keep current; and the detailed entries were not ideal for some reference uses. The first version of the German \"Conversations-Lexikon\" (1796–1808) was just 2,762 pages in six volumes, and while that work was later expanded, its format using numerous, less lengthy entries served as the principal model for many 19th-century encyclopedias and encyclopedic dictionaries. \n\nThe principal English-language encyclopaedic dictionary of the nineteenth century was the 7-volume in 14 eponymous work by Robert Hunter (1823–1897), published by Cassell in 1879–88, and reprinted many times up to 1910, including (1895) as the mass-circulation \"Lloyd's Encyclopaedic Dictionary\". Hunter was assisted by zoology author Henry Scherren and a small team of domestic assistants at his house in Loughton. In the US, the dictionary was reissued with a variety of titles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45492661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45492661", "title": "Estonian Free Party", "text": "Estonian Free Party\n\nThe Estonian Free Party () is an Estonian centre-right political party founded in 2014. The chairman of the party is Kaul Nurm. The party gained 8 seats after passing the 5-percent threshold in the 2015 Estonian parliamentary elections.\n\nThe nonprofit Estonian Free Party Founding Group was founded in January 2014. Originally it was to be founded by two organizations, Free Patriotic Citizen and Better Estonia, but the latter decided to withdraw.\n\nEstonian Free Party was officially established on 20 September 2014, and Andres Herkel was elected as chairman. The party attracted numerous public figures, including former head of the Defense Forces Admiral Tarmo Kõuts, actor Ain Lutsepp, and Jüri Adams, a former government minister who was one of the main writers of the Constitution of Estonia.\n\nDuring the 2015 Estonian parliamentary elections, the Estonian Free Party received 49,883 votes, constituting 8.7 percent of the total, which garnered it 8 seats in the 101-member parliament. The Estonian Free Party's candidate for prime minister, Artur Talvik, who received the most votes of all the Estonian Free Party candidates, was not a member of the party himself.\n\nThe Estonian Free Party participated in coalition talks together with the Estonian Reform Party, Social Democratic Party, and Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, but were left out of the coalition because their proposals to change the tax system were considered unacceptable. The Estonian Reform Party's unwillingness to reduce the state funding for political parties was cited as an issue by the Estonian Free Party.\n\nCommentators have argued, that the Estonian Free Party lacks a clear ideology. It has been characterized as centre-right, while chairman Andres Herkel described the party's ideology as right-wing liberal.\n\nThe party advocates raising the personal income tax, while on the other hand also raising the non-taxable basic exemption to support the poorer majority of taxpayers. The party's program also includes increased taxes on alcohol, tobacco, and confectionery. In economic policy, the party supports a relatively liberal approach, especially to support small businesses. The party has advocated reduction of state funding of political parties.\n\nThe Estonian Free Party has declared its opposition to the law recognising same-sex unions in Estonia, claiming that in its current form the law does not solve any problems. The party claims that the law needs to be revised and possibly also split into multiple, separate laws. The party opposes compulsory EU-wide migrant quotas in regard to European migrant crisis, and insists that the number of refugees to be accepted needs to be determined through negotiations.\n"}
{"id": "24252982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24252982", "title": "European Thesaurus on International Relations and Area Studies", "text": "European Thesaurus on International Relations and Area Studies\n\nThe European Thesaurus on International Relations and Area Studies (abbreviated: European Thesaurus) is a multilingual, interdisciplinary thesaurus covering the subject fields of International Relations and Area Studies. The European Thesaurus consists of about 8.200 descriptors organised in 24 subdomains. To enhance the access to the thesaurus’ controlled vocabulary the descriptors are arranged both alphabetically as well as systematically. The semantic relationships (equivalence, hierarchy, association) between all individual descriptors have been established. The European Thesaurus is intended to be used primarily in bibliographic databases for indexing and retrieval of professional literature from the relevant domains. The European Thesaurus can, in addition, even serve as a terminological reference work and/or as a translation tool in international affairs matters.\n\nThe European Thesaurus was developed by an international working group in the framework of a terminology cooperation project carried out by the European Information Network on International Relations and Area Studies (EINIRAS).\n\nThe European Thesaurus is available in nine languages: Croatian, Czech, English, French, German, Italian, Polish, Russian, Spanish. A Greek version is currently being translated.\n\nAt present the European Thesaurus is applied by academic organisations and research institutes in Germany (German Information Network International Relations and Area Studies – database \"World Affairs Online\" –), the Czech Republic (Institute of International Relations Prague) and Poland (Polish Institute of International Affairs, Warsaw). The European Thesaurus is updated regularly.\n\nThe European Thesaurus is publicly accessible via the academic internet portal IREON (\"International RElations and area studies ONline\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44571727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44571727", "title": "Fletcher Challenge Energy Ltd v Electricity Corp of New Zealand Ltd", "text": "Fletcher Challenge Energy Ltd v Electricity Corp of New Zealand Ltd\n\nFletcher Challenge Energy Ltd v Electricity Corporation of New Zealand Ltd [2002] 2 NZLR 433 regarding certainty in contract formation.\n\nWestern Mining Corporation was selling its 40% stake in the Kupe gas field, for which Fletcher Challenge Energy and Electricity Corporation were interesting in buying. ECNZ was particularly interested as it was planning to convert the Huntly power station with gas.\n\nBoth companies entered into an agreement that if one of them purchased the WMC share, that they would split the gas between them.\n\nThe contract was called a Heads of Agreement (HoA), but it left several matters unresolved, \"to use all reasonable endeavors to agree to a full sale and purchase agreement within 3 months of the date of this agreement\".\n\nLater however, after a substantial drop in power prices, ECNZ decided to not convert the power plant.\n\nAs a result, FCE applied successfully to the High Court to make ECNZ enter into an agreement with them. ECNZ defended the issue on the basis that there was lack of certainty making the contract unenforceable.\n\nThe court of appeal ruled that there was not a legally binding contract\n"}
{"id": "30560888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30560888", "title": "GNSS software-defined receiver", "text": "GNSS software-defined receiver\n\nA software GNSS receiver is a GNSS receiver that has been designed and implemented following the philosophy of Software-defined radio.\n\nA GNSS receiver, in general, is an electronic device that receives and digitally processes the signals from a GNSS satellite constellation in order to provide position, velocity and time (of the receiver).\n\nGNSS receivers have been traditionally implemented in hardware: a \"hardware GNSS receiver\" is conceived as a dedicated chip that have been designed and built (from the very beginning) with the only purpose of being a GNSS receiver.\n\nIn a software GNSS receiver, all digital processing is performed by a general purpose microprocessor. In this approach, a small amount of inexpensive hardware is still needed, known as the \"frontend\", that digitizes the signal from the satellites. The microprocessor can then work on this \"raw\" digital stream to implement the GNSS functionality.\n\nWhen comparing \"hardware\" vs \"software\" GNSS receivers, a number of pros and cons can be found for each approach:\n\n\nCurrently, most of the GNSS receiver market is still \"hardware\". However, there already exist operational solutions based on the software approach able to run on low-cost microprocessors. Software GNSS receivers are expected to increase their market share or even take over in the near future, following the development of the computational capabilities of the microprocessors (Moore's law).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19925095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19925095", "title": "Gulf Coast Archive and Museum", "text": "Gulf Coast Archive and Museum\n\nThe Gulf Coast Archive and Museum of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender History, Inc. (GCAM) is an LGBT history organization located in Neartown, Houston, Texas (United States).\nGCAM was created to collect, preserve and provide access to historical items from the LGBT community of the Gulf Coast area of Texas.\nThe archive encourages education of and research by anyone interested in learning about any aspects of the LGBT community. The organization sponsors meetings for the dissemination of information and display of collected materials.\n\nGCAM began meeting in July 1999 and officially incorporated in May 2000. The initial opening of the museum doors occurred Friday, June 16, 2000, in a small shared warehouse space on Capitol Street.\nBy June 2001, the museum had moved into an apartment on West Main Street.\n\nIn May 2005, GCAM officially closed its museum to focus on preserving the history of the community.\n\nLater, GCAM moved into an office at the Montrose Center with an ongoing exhibit space there on the public walls of the space.\nJune through September 2004, GCAM was proud to be able to assist the Holocaust Museum Houston to present Nazi Persecution of Homosexuals 1933–1945.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2839423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839423", "title": "JT (visualization format)", "text": "JT (visualization format)\n\nJT (Jupiter Tesselation) is an ISO-standardized 3D data format and is in industry used for product visualization, collaboration, CAD data exchange, and in some also for long-term data retention. It can contain any combination of approximate (faceted) data, boundary representation surfaces (NURBS), Product and Manufacturing Information (PMI), and Metadata (textual attributes) either exported from the native CAD system or inserted by a product data management (PDM) system.\n\nJT files are used in product lifecycle management (PLM) software programs and their respective CAD solutions, by engineers and other professionals that need to analyze the geometry of complex products. The format and associated software is structured so that extremely large numbers of components can be quickly loaded, shaded and manipulated in real-time. Because all major 3D CAD formats are supported, a JT assembly can contain a mixture of any combination which has led to the term \"multi-CAD\". As JT is typically implemented as an integral part of a PLM solution, the resulting multi-CAD assembly is managed such that changes to the original CAD product definition files can be automatically synchronized with their associated JT files resulting in a multi-CAD assembly that is always up-to-date.\n\nBecause JT files are inherently \"lightweight\" (~1-10% of the size of a CAD file) they are ideal for internet collaboration. With the growing trend toward globalization, more companies are leveraging resources wherever they are available in the world. Collaboration using JT allows companies to send 3D visualization data to suppliers and partners much more easily than sending the associated \"heavy\" CAD files. In addition, real-time, on-line collaboration is easier because the amount of information sent back-and-forth across the internet is reduced. Finally, JT provides an inherent security feature such that intellectual property does not have to be shared with inappropriate parties. As indicated above, JT can contain any combination of data such that the right amount of information can be shared without exposing the underlying proprietary design definition information.\n\nJT is often used for Digital mockup (DMU) work, which allows engineers to validate that a product can be assembled without interferences long before a physical prototype could be produced. This \"spatial validation\" is enabled by precise measurements and cross-sectioning as well as sophisticated clearance/interference detection. Leveraging JT for digital mockup allows users to reduce or eliminate costly physical prototypes and enables decision-making to occur much earlier in the development process.\n\nFinally, JT is used as a CAD interoperability format for exchanging design data for Collaborative Product Development, where JT files are created by translating data from CAD systems such as NX (Unigraphics), Creo Elements/Pro, I-DEAS, Solid Edge, Catia, Microstation or Autodesk Inventor.\n\nJT was originally developed by Engineering Animation, Inc. and Hewlett Packard as the DirectModel toolkit (initially Jupiter). JT is the abbreviation for Jupiter Tesselation. When EAI was purchased by UGS Corp., JT became a part of UGS’s suite of products. Early in 2007 UGS announced the publication of the JT data format easing the adoption of JT as a master 3D format. Also in 2007, UGS was acquired by Siemens AG and became Siemens PLM Software. JT is the common interoperability format in use across all of Siemens PLM Software and has been adopted as the long term data archival format across all of Siemens.\n\nOn 2009 September 18 the ISO stated officially that the JT specification has been accepted for publication as an ISO Publicly Available Specification (PAS). End of August 2010 the Ballot for the new Work Item Proposal for JT as ISO International Standard was started by ProSTEP iViP. ProSTEP iViP thereby aimed on the one hand to publish the JT file format specification as ISO Standard and, on the other hand, to harmonize this undertaking with the new STEP AP 242 development, so that JT and STEP (especially STEP AP 242 XML) can be used together to assure major benefits within industrial data exchange scenarios.\nOn 2012 December, JT has been officially published as ISO 14306:2012 (ISO JT V1) as a 3D visualization format, based on version 9.5 of JT specifications released by Siemens PLM Software. Through this publication via ISO, for the first time a completely neutral and royalty-free specification of JT was available.\n\nBeginning of 2013, in ISO the specification of ISO JT V2 was started. The ISO/DIS 14306 V2 was accepted by ISO in November 2016. The publication as ISO International Standard is expected within the first half of 2017. Main difference between V1 and V2 is the incorporation of a STEP B-rep as an additional B-rep segment.\n\nFor providing additional functionalities and innovations required by industry, ProSTEP iViP and VDA decided mid of 2015 to specify a so-called JT Industrial Application Package (JTIAP), which is a JT file format specification completely compatible to ISO 14306 (V1 as well as the future V2) and currently existing JT-Open-based implementations. Thereby, JTIAP provide a more comprehensive compression algorithm (LZMA), specifies XT B-rep as recommended representation of exact geometry and allows the neutral and royalty-free implementation of JT.\n\nJT was created to support the interactive display of very large assemblies (i.e. those containing tens of thousands of components). The JT file format is capable of storing an arbitrary number of faceted representations with varying levels of detail (LODs). When the whole product is displayed on the computer screen the hosting application displays only a simple, coarse, model. However, as the user zooms into a particular area, progressively finer representations are loaded and displayed. Over time, unused representations are unloaded to save memory.\n\nThe JT data model is capable of representing a wide range of engineering data. This data can be very lightweight, holding little more than facet data or it can be quite rich, containing complete NURBS geometry representations along with product structure, attributes, meta data and PMI. It also supports multiple tessellations and level-of-detail (LOD) generation.\n\n\nThe relationship of product structure hierarchy to exported JT file structure is arbitrary. Any node in the hierarchy may be specified as the start of a new JT file. Thus, product structure may be represented in a variety of JT file configurations.\n\nJT supports common product structure-to-file structure mappings. These include: \nClient applications may use these mappings, or choose to define their own custom mapping.\n\nTo help shrink the storage and transmission bandwidth requirements of 3D models, JT files may take advantage of compression. Use of compression is transparent to the user of the JT data, and a given model may be composed of JT files using different compression settings (including none).\n\nTo date, the JT file format has evolved through two forms of compression, exposed in JT Open Toolkit as standard and advanced compression. These differ in that the former employs a simple, lossless compression algorithm, while the latter employs a more sophisticated, domain-specific compression scheme supporting lossy geometry compression. Client applications are encouraged to take advantage of advanced compression over standard compression, as attainable compression ratios are much greater. Support for standard compression is maintained only in the interest of backward compatibility with legacy JT file viewing applications.\n\nThe compression form used by a JT file is related to the JT file format version in which it was written. This version is readily viewable by opening a JT file in a text editor and looking at its ASCII header information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3596579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3596579", "title": "John Russell Harper", "text": "John Russell Harper\n\nJohn Russell Harper, OC, FRSC (April 13, 1914 – November 17, 1983) was an eminent Canadian art historian who is considered to have pioneered the field of art history in Canada.\n\nHarper was born at Caledonia, Ontario and worked for some time as a primary school teacher before studying at the Ontario School of Art from 1938 to 1940. During World War II he served, alongside his future wife Mary Elizabeth Goodchild, as a radar mechanic for the Royal Canadian Air Force in Canada and England. After the war, he enrolled at the University of Toronto and received a B.A. in 1948 and an M.A. in 1950 in art and archeology.\n\nIn the 1950s, he became the chief cataloguer of the Royal Ontario Museum, and in 1951, he moved to Saint John, New Brunswick, to work for the New Brunswick Museum.\n\nAfter archaeological fieldwork for the Department of Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, he reported in 1959 on the potential for restoration of the fortress at Louisbourg, Nova Scotia.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1963, he was the curator of Canadian art at the National Gallery of Canada, and from 1965 to 1968 the chief curator of the McCord Museum of McGill University. From 1965 until his retirement in 1979 he lectured as a professor of art history at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s, he specialized in the study of Canadian painting. His 1966 \"Painting in Canada: a History\" was the first comprehensive overview of the field. Subsequent works include the ground-breaking studies on Paul Kane (\"Paul Kane's Frontier\", 1971) and Cornelius Krieghoff (\"Krieghoff\", 1979). His later interests centred on Canadian folk art.\n\nHarper was a member of the board of the Journal of Canadian Art History from 1974 through 1983, and was awarded an honorary Doctor of Literature from the University of Guelph in 1972 and Doctor of Fine Arts from the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design University in 1982. Among other awards he was made a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada in 1974; and also in that year became an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1502765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1502765", "title": "Joseph Owens (Jesuit)", "text": "Joseph Owens (Jesuit)\n\nJoseph Owens, S.J. (Father Joseph Owens) is a Roman Catholic priest, social worker, and educator who has worked for many years in the Caribbean and Central America. He is the author of \"Dread, The Rastafarians of Jamaica\" (1974), written from 1970 to 1972 while working and living with members of the Rastafari movement in Kingston, Jamaica, during which period he discussed theological and philosophical issues with them in order to write a book examining their beliefs in relation to Judaism, Christianity and the Bible. In the book he attempts to allow the Rasta to explain their doctrines in their own words, examining all key doctrines in different chapters. The book is a rich and unique source of material about Rastafarian beliefs in the developmental stage of the religion.\n\nOwens studied philosophy at Boston College, United States and divinity at Weston College School of Theology, Cambridge, Massachusetts Owens has worked for many years in the Jesuit colleges of Central America in Managua, Nicaragua. He is the translator of the recently published work \"The Gospel of Faith and Justice\" by Antonio Gonzalez.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51267305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51267305", "title": "Josephine Butler bibliography", "text": "Josephine Butler bibliography\n\nJosephine Butler (1828–1906) was an English feminist and social reformer in the Victorian era. She was especially concerned with the welfare of prostitutes although she campaigned on a broad range of women's rights. In 1864 her daughter Eva fell from the top-floor bannister onto the stone floor of the hallway in her home; she died three hours later. The death led Butler to begin a career of campaigning that ran until the end of her life; she later wrote that after the death she \"became possessed with an irresistible urge to go forth and find some pain keener than my own, to meet with people more unhappy than myself. ... It was not difficult to find misery in Liverpool.\" Her targets included obtaining the vote, the right to better education and the end of coverture in British law, although she achieved her greatest success in leading the movement to repeal the Contagious Diseases Acts, legislation that attempted to control the spread of venereal diseases, particularly in the British Army and Royal Navy. She was also opposed to the forced medical examination of prostitutes—a process she described as \"surgical\" or \"steel rape\". Her campaigning led to the suspension of the practice in April 1883, and the Acts were formally repealed in three years later.\n\nButler's first full-length publication was \"Memoir of John Grey of Dilston\", detailing the life of her father, John Grey, which she wrote following his death. She also wrote a monograph of her husband George in 1892 after his death two years previously. In 1878 Butler published a third biography, this time of Catharine of Siena, which Glen Petrie—Butler's biographer—wrote was probably her best work. Another historian, Judith Walkowitz, considers the work as providing Butler with a \"historical justification for her own political activism\". Over a period of at least 40 years Butler wrote over 90 books and pamphlets, mostly in support of her campaigning work; because of her campaigning on mainland Europe, some of Butler's works—based on her speeches—were written in French and German, and were published in France, Germany and Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "655516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655516", "title": "Kvenland", "text": "Kvenland\n\nKvenland, known as \"Cwenland\", \"Qwenland\", \"Kænland\" or similar terms in medieval sources, is an ancient name for an area in Fennoscandia and Scandinavia. Kvenland, in that or nearly that spelling, is known from an Old English account written in the 9th century, which used the information provided by the Norwegian adventurer and traveler Ohthere, and from Nordic sources, primarily Icelandic. One possible additional source was written in the modern-day area of Norway — all the known Nordic sources date to the 12th and 13th centuries. Other possible references to Kvenland by other names or spellings are also discussed on this page.\n\nA Norwegian adventurer and traveler named Ohthere visited England around 890 CE. King Alfred of Wessex had his stories written down and included them in his Old English version of a world history written by the Romano-Hispanic author Orosius. Ohthere's story contains the only contemporary description about Kvenland that has survived from the 9th century:\n[Ohthere] said that the Norwegians' (Norðmanna) land was very long and very narrow ... and to the east are wild mountains, parallel to the cultivated land. Finnas inhabit these mountains ... Then along this land southwards, on the other side of the mountain (\"sic\"), is Sweden ... and along that land northwards, Kvenland (Cwenaland). The Kvens (Cwenas) sometimes make depredations on the Northmen over the mountain, and sometimes the Northmen on them; there are very large [freshwater] meres amongst the mountains, and the Kvens carry their ships over land into the meres, and thence make depredations on the Northmen; they have very little ships, and very light.\n\nAs is emphasized in the text, Ohthere's account was an oral statement, made to King Alfred, and the section dealing with Kvenland takes up only two sentences. Ohthere's information on Kvens may have been second-hand, since, unlike in his other stories, Ohthere does not emphasize his personal involvement in any way. Ohthere's method of locating Kvenland can be interpreted to mean that Kvenland was located in and around the northern part of the modern-day Sweden and in the mid-western part of the modern-day Finland, when the difference in the Viking compass is taken into consideration (see more further below). Other, somewhat later sources call the land adjacent to the northern part of Norway \"Finnmark.\"\n\nOhthere's \"Finnas\" may be a reference to the Sami people, but not all historians agree on this. Although Ohthere does not give any name for the area where his \"Finnas\" lived, he gives a lengthy description of their lives in and around Northern Norway, without mentioning Kvens.\n\nOhthere's mention of the \"large [freshwater] meres\" and of the Kvens' boats are of great interest. The meres are said to be \"amongst the mountains\", the words used in the text being \"geond þa moras\". Ohthere may be referring to the Southern Norwegian lake district, which is also referred to in \"Orkneyinga saga\". This way, the reference would have included Lake Mjøsa, an area which is known to have been inhabited at that time: the Orkneyinga saga tells how these inhabitants were attacked by men from Kvenland.\n\nThe mention of the \"very light ships\" (boats) carried overland has a well-documented ethnographic parallel in the numerous portages of the historical river and lake routes in Fennoscandia and Northern Russia. According to the philologist Irmeli Valtonen, \"[the] text does not give us a clear picture where the \"Cwenas\" are to be located though it seems a reasonable conclusion that they lived or stayed somewhere in the modern-day areas of Northern Sweden or Northern Finland.\"\n\nThe name \"Kven\" briefly appears later in King Alfred's \"Orosius\". The Kven Sea is mentioned as the northern border for the ancient Germany, and Kvenland is mentioned again, as follows:\n... the Swedes (Sweons) have to the south of them the arm of the sea called East (Osti), and to the east of them Sarmatia (Sermende), and to the north, over the wastes, is Kvenland (Cwenland), to the northwest are the Sami people (Scridefinnas), and the Norwegians (Norðmenn) are to the west.\n\nThe term \"Sarmatism\" was first used by Jan Długosz in his 15th century work on the history of Poland. Długosz was also responsible for linking the Sarmatians to the prehistory of Poland, and this idea was continued by other chroniclers and historians such as Marcin Bielski, Marcin Kromer and Maciej Miechowita. Miechowita's \"Tractatus de Duabus Sarmatiis\" became influential abroad, and for some time it was one of the most widely used reference works on the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nThe Viking compass is believed to have had a 45 degree rotation of cardinal points. If the territories listed in King Alfred's \"Orosius\" are examined with that in mind, the Norwegians would be to the northwest of Sweden, and the Sami people would be to the north. These points are correct after rotation based on the difference between the Viking and modern compasses. Kvenland is then situated to the northeast of Sweden and might be placed somewhere around the present-day Swedish Norrland or the western part of the present-day Finland. The information of Kvenland being situated \"over the wastes\", northwards from the Viking-period \"Sweden\" (corresponding roughly to the south-central part of present-day Sweden) matches the idea of Kvenland extending to Norrland. There is no \"Finland\" mentioned anywhere either in the original or the updated version of Orosius' history.\n\nThree medieval Icelandic accounts discuss Kvenland. They are \"Egils saga\" and the more legendary \"Hversu Noregr byggdist\" and \"Orkneyinga saga\". According to \"Hversu Noregr byggdist\", Kvens made sacrifices to Thorri, who \"ruled over Gothland, Kvenland (Kænlandi) and Finland.\" According to \"Orkneyinga saga\", Fornjót was \"a king\" who \"reigned over Gotland, which we now know as Finland and Kvenland.\" \n\nA DNA study conducted on the prehistoric skeletal remains of four individuals from Gotland supports the area having been ethnically interconnected with Finland and Kvenland during the primeval era, just as suggested by \"Hversu Noregr byggdist\" and \"Orkneyinga saga\":\n\"The hunter-gatherers show the greatest similarity to modern-day Finns\", says Pontus Skoglund, an evolutionary geneticist at Uppsala University in Sweden.\n\nRecent archaeological discoveries made in Finland have further emphasized the close ties between Gotland and modern-day Finland during the primeval era. In the late spring of 2013, a Merovingian period (600-800 AD) silver plate, believed to be a piece of a sword scabbard, was discovered in Rautjärvi, Finland. The origin of the silver plate has been traced to Gotland, based on its style of ornamentation. According to Jukka Luoto of the Museum of South Karelia, \"this indicates that these areas have independently conducted trade with Gotland.\"\n\n\"Orkneyinga saga\" contains a realistic description of Nór traveling from Kvenland to Norway. Based on the saga's internal chronologies, this would have happened around the 6th or 7th century CE, but the dating is very insecure. Locations of Kvenland, Finland and Gotland are given rather exactly:\n\"to the east of the gulf that lies across from the White Sea (Gandvík); we call that the Gulf of Bothnia (Helsingjabotn).\"\n\nThe saga is correct in placing the Gulf of Bothnia \"across\" (i.e., \"on the other side of\" the isthmus between the two seas) from the White Sea. The saga does not say that Kvenland was on the coast, but just east of the Gulf.\n\nThis is how Nór started his journey to Norway:\nBut Nor, his brother, waited until snow lay on the moors so he could travel on snow-shoes. He went out from Kvenland and skirted the Gulf, and came to that place inhabited by the men called Sami (Lapps); that is beyond Finnmark.\n\nHaving traveled for a while, Nór was still \"beyond Finnmark.\" After a brief fight with Sami people (Lapps), Nór continued:\nBut Nor went thence westward to the Kjolen Mountains and for a long time they knew nothing of men, but shot beasts and birds to feed to themselves, until they came to a place where the rivers flowed west of the mountains. — Then he went up along the valleys that run south of the fjord. That fjord is now called Trondheim.\nStarting somewhere on the eastern coast of the Gulf of Bothnia, Nór had either gone all the way up and around the Gulf, or skied across; it was winter, and the gulf might have been frozen. Nór ended up attacking the area around Trondheim in central Norway and later the lake district in the south, conquering the country and uniting it under his rule. There is no mention of Kvenland after that. Again only a handful of words are devoted to Kvenland, mainly telling where it was.\n\nNór's journey from Kvenland to Norway is missing from \"Hversu\", which in fact does not even mention that Nór came from Kvenland at all, only stating: \"Norr had great battles west of the Keel\". The journey may have been lifted from some other context and added to \"Orkneyinga saga\" in a later phase by an unknown author who wanted to make the saga more adventurous. \n\"Egils saga\" is an epic Icelandic saga possibly by Snorri Sturluson (1179-1241 CE), who may have written it between 1220 and 1240 CE. The saga covers a long period, starting in Norway in 850 CE and ending around 1000 CE. It contains a short description of Egil's uncle Thorolf Kveldulfsson co-operating with a Kvenland king, Faravid, against invading Karelians. Rather accurate geographical details about Kvenland's location are given in chapter XIV:\nFinmark is a wide tract; it is bounded westwards by the sea, wherefrom large firths run in; by sea also northwards and round to the east; but southwards lies Norway; and Finmark stretches along nearly all the inland region to the south, as also does Hålogaland outside. But eastwards from Namdalen (Naumdale) is Jämtland (Jamtaland), then Hälsingland (Helsingjaland) and Kvenland, then Finland, then Karelia (Kirialaland); along all these lands to the north lies Finmark, and there are wide inhabited fell-districts, some in dales, some by lakes. The lakes of Finmark are wonderfully large, and by the lakes there are extensive forests. But high fells lie behind from end to end of the Mark, and this ridge is called Keels.\n\nLike \"Hversu Noregr byggdist\", \"Egils saga\" clearly separates Finland and Kvenland, listing them as neighboring areas. However, Finland is not listed in any of the saga's surviving versions, indicating that it might be a later addition by someone who did not recognize Kvenland any more. The saga says \"eastwards from Namdalen is Jämtland\", but actually the direction is southeast. Also Hälsingland is southeast, not east, of Jämtland. Since it is widely assumed that the Viking compass had a 45 degree rotation of cardinal points, the saga's \"east\" seems to correspond to the contemporary southeast.\n\nIn chapter XVII Thorolf goes to Kvenland again:\nThat same winter Thorolf went up on the fell with a hundred men; he passed on at once eastwards to Kvenland and met king Faravid.\nHad Thorolf gone up to the mountains around his homeland Namdalen and then straight \"eastwards\", i.e., southeast, he would have first reached Jämtland and then Hälsingland. These are the same lands that were listed earlier in the saga. If the passage about going \"southwest\" is taken literally and directly, continuing from Hälsingland across the Gulf of Bothnia Thorolf would have arrived in the southwestern tip of present-day Finland, the center of Finland's Viking period population (see map).\nAgain, as with \"Ohthere\", Sami people and Kvens are not discussed at the same time. The saga tells how Norwegians taxed the Sami people, but there is no indication in the saga that the Kvens would have competed with the Norwegians for control of the Sami or lived near or among them. Much debate has taken place concerning whether the saga provides truthful information of Iron Age Kvenland by mentioning that the Kvens had a real-sounding 'king' and a 'law' to divide the loot. The saga places the confrontation of Norwegians and Karelians in the 9th century.\n\nBesides Old English Orosius, Hversu Noregr byggdist, Orkneyinga saga and Egil's saga, Kvenland or Kvens are very briefly mentioned in four Icelandic texts from the same era. One of the texts may have been written in Norway.\n\n\"Norna-Gests þáttr\" has a brief mention of the king of Denmark and Sweden, Sigurd Hring (ruling in the mid-8th century), fighting against the Curonians and the Kvens:\nSigurd Ring (Sigurðr) was not there, since he had to defend his land, Sweden (\"Svíþjóð\"), since Curonians (\"Kúrir\") and Kvens (\"Kvænir\") were raiding there.\n\n\"Historia Norwegiae\" was written sometime between 1160 and 1175 CE in an unknown location. It contains a list of peoples in the North:\nBut towards north many pagan tribes—alas!—stretch from the east behind Norway, namely Karelians (Kiriali) and Kvens (Kwæni), corneous Sami people (cornuti Finni) and both peoples of Bjarmia (utrique Biarmones). But what tribes dwell behind them, have we no certainty.\n\nThe Icelandic Annals have a late mention of Kvens clearly active in the North. Around 1271 CE, the following is said to have happened:\nThen Karelians (Kereliar) and Kvens (Kvænir) pillaged widely in Hålogaland (Hálogaland).\n\nIn some pre-medieval and medieval texts, it is not clear which groups of people the authors are referring to by the titles used. According to historians, terms used for either the Kvens, Finns and/or Sami in texts written during the 1st millennium AD include the following:\n\n\nIn the Old Norse language the word \"Finn\" (\"finnr\") referred to the Sami people, though, and not the Finnish people, and the word still has that same meaning in Bokmål (one of the two official standards of the Norwegian language). \"Skridfinne\" (\"skiing Finn\") and \"finne\" also referred to the Sami people, and not the Finnish people, in both the other Scandinavian languages, Latin (\"scricfinni/finni\") and Greek (\"/\") during mediaeval times. \n\nAccording to Finnish historian Kyösti Julku the Germanic tribe Sitones mentioned in Tacitus' Germania in 98 CE lived in the area in northern Fennoscandia claimed to be \"Kvenland\", saying \"There can be no confusion about the geographical location of the Sitones.\"\n\nKvenland has generated many theories about its origin, the location of Kvenland east of the Bay of Bothnia has, however, been an unchanging feature of most interpretations since the 17th century, when the Swedish historians Johannes Messenius and Olaus Rudbeckius first noted the concept of Kvenland in Old Norse sources. In 1650, Professor Michael Wexionius from Turku became the first to associate Kvenland with the Finnish \"Kainuu\". In the 18th century the Finnish historian Henrik Gabriel Porthan, among others, focused attention on the \"Ohthere\" passage mentioning the \"Cwenas\". Whereas Porthan suggested that the ancient Kvens may have been Swedish, many others came to view the Kvens as an ancient Finnish tribe.\n\nNowadays Kainuu is a name of an inland province in northeastern Finland. In the past the name Kainuu was often used of the more western coastal area around the Bay of Bothnia, even up to the 19th century. In the early \"Umesaami\" dictionaries the terms \"Kainolads\" and \"Kainahalja\" described Norwegian and Swedish men and women respectively.\n\nIn a theory somewhat closely related to the Kainuu theory, Kvenland has also been associated with the legendary Pohjola. Pohjola is an other-worldly country in Finnish mythology, ruled by a fierce witch called Louhi. Pohjola is best known from the \"Kalevala\", a 19th-century Finnish work of epic poetry compiled by Elias Lönnrot from Karelian and Finnish oral folklore and mythology, collected largely in the Finnish region of Kainuu.\n\nDifferent interpretations of the origins of the mythical Pohjola exist. Some include parts of Lapland and the ancient Kainuu (same as Kvenland according to common view today) in Kalevala's Pohjola. Some point out a similarity with the name \"Pohjanmaa\" (Ostrobothnia in English), a region in western Finland.\n\nAn original view has been provided by a Finnish historian and Helsinki University professor, Matti Klinge, who has placed Kvenland/Kainuu not only in southern Finland, but around the Baltic Sea as a kind of Finnish-Swedish \"maritime confederation\". Klinge has presented a hypothesis of Kvenland as a naval power on the Baltic, located on both the present-day Finnish and Swedish sides of the Gulf of Bothnia as well as in some of the surrounding areas. The folklorist and professor of literature Väinö Kaukonen calls it \"fantastic fabulation\" and a \"dream-wish\". However, Professor Emeritus in Archeology at the University of Turku, Unto Salo has also concluded that \"Kvens/Kainulainens\" were men of Satakunta in Southern Finland. There is archeological evidence linking Satakunta and Lapland (for example types of skis) but skipping the areas between which suggests that expeditions were undertaken from Satakunta to the North during the late Viking Age. Further, toponomy suggests that there were regular routes used by the people of Satakunta to get to the North. Lastly, haapio, a type of a very light dugout boat was used extensively in Satakunta and would have been ideal for such expeditions. Unto Salo speculates that the name Haaparanta (\"Aspen shore\") in the Northern Sweden (county of Norrbotten) would have been given due to presence of asps needed to build haapios.\nOriginally Kvenland was more likely situated in the Southern-Ostrobothnia but when this habitation disappeared in the early 9th century for unknown reasons, the Norwegians continued to apply the term Kven to the men of Satakunta and Häme who inherited the Northern trade and taxation. \n\nDifferent views exist of why ancient scholars have made references to Kvenland as an area dominated by women. Some have suggested that there may have been misinterpretations of terminology. Whatever the etymological origin of the element \"kven\", it effortlessly translates to \"woman\" in Old Norse. Proto-Germanic *\"kwinōn\", *\"kunōn\", *\"kwēni-z\" and *\"kwēnō\" for \"woman\" developed into \"kona\", \"kvǟn\", \"kvān\", \"kvɔ̄n\", \"kvendi\", \"kvenna\" and \"kvinna\" in Old Norse. It is plausible that this led learned speakers of Old Norse to identify Kvenland with the land of the Amazons in Greek legend; Adam of Bremen, for example, often mentions Amazons in writing of the far North.\n\nAmong sources used in the related debate by historians is the following statement of Tacitus from c. 98 CE:\n\n\"Upon the Suiones, border the people Sitones; and, agreeing with them in all other things, differ from them in one, that here the sovereignty is exercised by a woman. So notoriously do they degenerate not only from a state of liberty, but even below a state of bondage.\"\n\nAccording to a view shared by many historians, the term \"Sitones\" (Kvens) shares etymological roots with Sigtuna, which much later had a Latin spelling \"Situne\". According to \"Disas saga\", the Sitones were ruled by a queen. According to a common view, the \"queen\" of the Sitones either derives from or is a possible linguistic confusion of an Old Norse term used for \"woman\", which shares linguistic origins with the term used in reference to the Kvens. According to Thomas William Shore, the English language term \"queen\" derives from the term \"qwen\", a spelling used for the Kvens e.g. by Wulfila in c. 352 CE and King Alfred the Great of Wessex in c. 890 CE. In 1075 AD, in \"Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum\", the German chronicler Adam of Bremen calls Kvenland Women's Land, stating the following:\n\nMeanwhile Swedes (Sueones), who had expelled their bishop, got a divine revenge. And at first King's son called Anund, whose father had sent him to enlarge his kingdom, after arriving to Women's Land (\"patriam feminarum\"), whom we consider to be Amazons, was killed along with his army from poison, that they had mixed to the spring water. (III 15)\n\n\"After that come the Swedes (Sueones) that rule wide areas up until the \"Land of Women\" (terram feminarum). Living east of these are said to be Wizzi, Mirri, Lamiy, Scuti and Turci up until the border of Russia (Ruzziam).\" (IV 14) \n\nIn the related debate references are sometimes also made to the Finnish epic \"Kalevala\", according to which Pohjola was ruled by a woman called Louhi or \"Pohjan-akka\". The ancient Norse knew the Northern ruler-goddesses by the names \"gýgjar\" (singular: \"gýgr\") and \"íviðjur\" (singular: \"íviðja\"). There is also a reference to a northern land of women in an Icelandic manuscript from the 14th century, which describes a \"kuenna land\" (\"woman land\").\n\nIn 1958, a Finnish historian, politician and University of Helsinki professor, Kustaa Vilkuna, suggested that Kainuu or Kvenland was originally in Southern Finland, on the Gulf of Bothnia and covering just northern Southwest Finland and coastal Satakunta. A small local area called as \"Kalanti\" (\"Kaland\" in Swedish) would have been a remnant of the earlier name Kvenland. Because of the trading and tribute-taking expeditions as well as settlement expansion of the kainulaiset, the territorial concept of Kainuu was gradually moved northward. \n\nAnother mid-20th-century historian, Professor Jalmari Jaakkola, considered the Kvens or \"kainulaiset\" as long-range hunters and tribute-takers coming from Upper Satakunta, from the inland region surrounding the present-day city of Tampere. This theory was supported by Professor Armas Luukko.\n\nIn 1979, Professor Pentti Virrankoski of the University of Turku presented a hypothesis according to which Kainuu was originally the sedentary Iron Age settlement in Southern Ostrobothnia. After the settlement was supposedly destroyed by tribal warfare during the early 9th century, the \"kainulaiset\" became dispersed along the western coasts of Finland, leaving only place-names and some archaeological finds as permanent traces.\n\nIn 1980, the University of Oulu professor Jouko Vahtola pointed out that there is no evidence of the name \"Kainuu\" being of Western Finnish origin and considered it to have Eastern Finnish roots. However, he suggested a common Germanic etymology for the names Kainuu and Kvenland. Like most of his predecessors, Vahtola viewed Kainuu/Kvenland as the name of the coastal Ostrobothnia, meaning roughly \"low-lying land\". Based on the archaeological knowledge of the north, Vahtola did not believe that there was a separate Iron Age tribe called Kvens. He considered the Kvens to be mainly Tavastians hunting and trading in northern Ostrobothnia, thus partially reproducing the view of Jaakkola and Luukko (Upper Satakunta being a part of traditional Tavastia). This theory is nowadays widely adopted in Finland, Sweden and Norway, and it is cited in many studies and popular works. \n\nIn 1995 the Finnish linguist Jorma Koivulehto gave support for the theory of common etymological roots of the names \"Kainuu\" and \"Kvenland\". He suggests a new etymology meaning roughly \"marine gap-land\", the \"marine gap\" being the northern sea-route on the Bothnian Gulf.\n\nIncreasing archaeological fieldwork in northern Finland has cast some doubts on the idea of Kvenland having almost no sedentary settlements. Encouraged by the new findings, Professor Kyösti Julku of Oulu University presented a theory of the Kvens being early permanent Finnish inhabitants of Northern Finland and Norrbotten (a part of modern-day Sweden).\n\nSome Swedish historians have suggested that the ancient Kvens were actually a Scandinavian and not a Finnish group, but these views have little support nowadays. The Swedish archaeologist Thomas Wallerström suggests that the Kvens/kainulaiset was a collective name for several Finnic groups participating in the west-east fur-trade, not just southern Finns but ancestors of Karelians and Vepsians as well. In this case, the land of the Kvens would have extended from the Bothnian Gulf in the west to the Lake Onega in the east.\n\nIn 1328, Tälje Charter (\"Tälje stadga\") - the oldest known record written in Swedish - mention the Birkarls (\"bircharlaboa\"). Based on the information revealed, the Birkarls then inhabited areas, e.g., in Northern Hälsingland, which covered the western coast of the Gulf of Bothnia, and from there all the way up and around the gulf to Oulu River. Tälje Charter is a state treaty ratified between the Kvens and the Swedish crown, in which the king of Sweden guarantees the Brkarl Kvens trading and tax-collecting rights as chief enforcement officers (Swedish term: \"Fogde\") in the North.\n\nIn his 1539 map Carta Marina, Swedish Olaus Magnus places Birkarl Kvens (\"Berkara Qvenar\") on the Norwegian North Atlantic cost, roughly in the middle in between the archipelago of Lofoten and the modern-day city of Tromsø. In his 1555 \"Historia de Gentibus Septentrionalibus\" (A Description of the Northern Peoples), he also mentions both terms: the Finnish traders who commuted between and inhabited the general area of Tornio and the modern-day area of Norway are said to have been called \"Kvens\". The earliest remaining Norwegian tax records, stored at the National Archival Services of Norway (\"Riksarkivet\"), dating to the mid-16th century, also mention Kvens.\nToday, the term \"Kven\" is used in Norway in reference to the descendants of Finnish-speaking people who have inhabited or migrated to the present-day area of Norway anytime before World War II. Migration waves from the 16th century onward have brought Finnish settlers to Northern Norway from the modern-day areas of Northern Sweden and Northern Finland, mostly from the northern coastal areas of the Bay of Bothnia.\n\nRepeated claims about there in mediaeval times having existed a country named \"Kvenland\", populated by a Finnish-speaking people named \"Kvens\", have reappeared in modern times in northern Sweden and northern Finland, amid claims that the \"Kvens\" not only are an indigenous people in northern Sweden and Finland, but the indigenous people there. Claims that are directly connected to a struggle over the rights to hunt and fish in very large areas in northern Fennoscandia, between the Sami people, who are the recognised indigenous people of the area, and the Swedish- and Finnish-speaking population there. There are, however, no documented or in any other way proven connection between the people in northern Sweden and Finland who now claim to be \"Kvens\", and the geographical area, and people who lived there, that in mediaeval times were referred to as \"Kvenland\" and \"Kvens\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22061053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22061053", "title": "LGBT themes in mythology", "text": "LGBT themes in mythology\n\nLGBT themes in mythology occur in mythologies and religious narratives that include stories of romantic affection or sexuality between figures of the same sex or that feature divine actions that result in changes in gender. These myths are forms of LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) expression, and modern conceptions of sexuality and gender have been applied to them. Many mythologies ascribe homosexuality and gender fluidity in humans to the action of gods or of other supernatural interventions.\n\nThe presence of LGBT themes in Western mythologies has become the subject of intense study. The application of gender studies and queer theory to non-Western mythic tradition is less developed, but has grown since the end of the twentieth century.\nMyths often include being gay, bisexual, or transgender as symbols for sacred or mythic experiences. Devdutt Pattanaik writes that myths \"capture the collective unconsciousness of a people\", and that this means they reflect deep-rooted beliefs\nabout variant sexualities that may be at odds with repressive social mores.\n\nThe status of mythology varies by culture. Myths are generally believed to be literally true within the society that created them and deemed erroneous or fictitious elsewhere. Cultures may regard myths as containing psychological or archetypal truths. Myths have been used to explain and validate the social institutions of a particular culture, as well as to educate the members of that culture. This societal role has been posited for stories that included same-sex love, which educate people as to the correct attitude to adopt toward same-sex sexual activity and gender constructions.\n\nSince the beginning of recorded history and in a multitude of cultures, myths, folklore and sacred texts have incorporated themes of same-sex eroticism and gender identity. Myths often include homosexuality, bisexuality or transgenderism as a symbol for sacred or mythic experiences. Homoeroticism or gender variance in myths have been analysed according to modern conceptions of LGBT identities and behaviours, for example, deities that disguise themselves as, or adopt behaviors traditional to, the opposite gender for a given culture may be called transgender, and beings with no reproductive organs or both male and female organs may be called androgynous or intersex. Individual myths have been denoted \"queer\" for rejecting an heteronormative and binary view of gender. The queer interpretations may be based on only indirect evidence, such as an unusually close same-sex friendship or dedication to chastity. These have been criticised for ignoring cultural context or mis-applying modern or Western preconceptions, for example in assuming that celibacy means only avoiding penetration or reproductive sex (hence allowing homoerotic sex), while ignoring the widespread beliefs in the spiritual potency of semen that mandate an avoidance of all sex.\n\nThe presence of LGBT themes in Western mythologies has long been recognised, and the subject of intense study. The application of gender studies and queer theory to non-Western mythic tradition is less developed, but has been growing since the end of the twentieth century. Devdutt Pattanaik writes that myths \"capture the collective unconsciousness of a people\", and that this means they reflect deep-rooted beliefs about variant sexualities that may be at odds with repressive social mores.\n\nMany mythologies ascribe homosexuality and gender variance in humans to the action of gods or other supernatural interventions. This include myths in which gods teach people about same-sex sexual practices by example, as in Aztec or Hawaiian mythology or myths that explain the cause for transgenderism or homosexuality, such as the story in which Prometheus accidentally creates some people with the wrong genitalia while drunk, or instances of reincarnation or possession by a spirit of the opposite gender in Voodoo.\n\nIt is common in polytheistic mythologies to find characters that can change gender, or have aspects of both male and female genders at the same time. Sexual activity with both genders is also common within such pantheons, and is compared to modern bisexuality or pansexuality. The creation myths of many traditions involve sexual, bisexual or androgynous motifs, with the world being created by genderless or hermaphrodite beings or through sexual congress between beings of the opposite or same apparent gender.\n\nGreek mythology features male same-sex love in many of the constituent myths. These myths have been described as being crucially influential on Western LGBT literature, with the original myths being constantly re-published and re-written, and the relationships and characters serving as icons. In comparison, lesbianism is rarely found in classical myths.\nThe love goddess Aphrodite and gods in her retinue, such as the Erotes: Eros, Himeros and Pothos are sometimes considered patrons of homosexual love between males. Eros is also part of a triad of gods that played roles in homoerotic relationships, along with Heracles and Hermes, who bestowed qualities of Beauty (and Loyalty), strength, and eloquence, respectively, onto male lovers. In the poetry of Sappho, Aphrodite is identified as the patron of lesbians. Aphroditus was an androgynous Aphrodite from Cyprus, in later mythology became known as Hermaphroditus the son of Hermes and Aphrodite.\n\nIn Ovid's \"Metamorphosis\" Iphis has a sex change.\n\nAccording to Book XII of Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\", the Lapith hero of Thessaly, Caeneus, was a transgender man. He was originally known as Caenis, daughter of Atrax.\n\nThe sagas in the Old Norse language include no stories of gay or lesbian relationships, nor direct reference to LGBT characters, but they do contain several instances of revenge enacted by men accused of being a passive partner in intercourse, which was considered \"unmanly\" behavior and thus a threat to a man's reputation as a leader or warrior.\n\nIn spite of this, it has been suggested that Freyr, a Norse god of fertility, may have been worshiped by a group of homosexual or effeminate priests, as suggested by Saxo Grammaticus in his \"Gesta Danorum\". Odin is mentioned as a practitioner of \"seiðr\", a form of magic considered shameful for men to perform, so was reserved for women.\nIt is possible that the practice of \"seiðr\" involved passive sexual rites, and Odin was taunted with this fact.\n\nIn addition, some of the Norse gods were capable of changing sex at will, for example Loki, the trickster god, frequently disguised himself as a woman. In one myth, he turned himself into a mare and, after having sex with the stallion Svaðilfari, he gave birth to a foal. Comparison of a man to a child-bearing woman was a common insult in Scandinavia, and some myths say that Loki is bisexual.\n\nOdin was known to use magic only available to women and once seduced the goddess Rind in the guise of a leech woman.\n\nIn Celtic mythology, no direct representation of gay or lesbian relationships exist. Ancient Greek and Roman commentators attribute sexual activity between males, including pederasty, to pre-Christian Celtic tribes. However, Peter Chicheri argues in \"Celtic sexuality: power, paradigms, and passion\" that homosexual affection was severely punished in Celtic culture due to influence from Christianity, and suggests that any non-procreative sexual experience was subsequently expunged from mythic tales.\n\nSome modern readings of texts have inferred LGBT themes, for example, the heroes and foster-brothers Cúchulainn and Ferdiadh have been interpreted as having a (bi)sexual relationship. When forced to fight each other, Ferdiadh mentions their sharing beds, and they are said to have found each other after the first day of conflict and kissed. After three days, Cúchulainn defeats Ferdiadh by piercing his anus with his \"mysterious weapon\" \"Gáe Bulg\". The tale has led to comparisons to Greek \"warrior-lovers\", and Cúchulainn's reaction to the death of Ferdiadh in particular compared to Achilles' lament for Patrocles.\n\nIn the Fourth Branch of the \"Mabinogion\" of Welsh mythology, Gwydion helps his brother Gilfaethwy rape Goewin, Math's foot-holder. Gwydion and Gilfaethwy sneak back to Math's court where Gilfaethwy rapes Goewin. When Math hears of this, he turns his nephews into a series of mated pairs of animals; Gwydion becomes a stag for a year, then a sow and finally a wolf. Gilfaethwy becomes a hind deer, a boar and a she-wolf. Each year they must mate and produce an offspring which is sent to Math: Hyddwn, Hychddwn and Bleiddwn; after three years Math releases his nephews from their punishment.\n\nChinese mythology has been described as \"rich in stories about homosexuality\". The mythological stories and folklore of China reflect ancient Chinese perspectives toward homosexuality, rather than modern views. These myths are greatly influenced by religious beliefs, particularly Taoist and Confucian, and later incorporated Buddhist teachings.\n\nThe pre-Confucian and pre-Taoist tradition of China was predominately shamanistic. Male same-sex love was believed to have originated in the mythical south, thus homosexuality is sometimes still called \"Southern wind\". From this period, numerous spirits or deities were associated with homosexuality, bisexuality and transgenderism. These include Chou Wang, Lan Caihe, Shan Gu, and Yu the Great, and Gun.\n\nHomosexual encounters are common in Chinese folk stories. The animal spirits or fairies often choose same-sex partners, usually young men or boys. According to Xiaomingxiong, one exception to this age preference is the dragon, a powerful mythological beast. Chinese dragons \"consistently enjoy[s] sexual relationships with older men\", one example being in the tale of \"Old Farmer and a Dragon\", in which a sixty-year-old farmer is forcibly sodomised by a passing dragon, resulting in wounds from penetration and bites that require medical attention.\n\nDespite the later literature of some Taoist schools disapproval of homosexuality,Tu Er Shen is a deity in Chinese folklore who manages the love and sex between homosexual men. His name literally means \"rabbit deity\". According to \"The Tale of the Rabbit God\" in the \"Zi Bu Yu\", Tu Er Shen was originally a man called Hu Tianbao, who fell in love with a handsome young imperial inspector of the Fujian Province. One day Hu Tianbao was caught peeping on the inspector, at which point he confessed his reluctant affections for the other man. The imperial inspector had Hu Tianbao sentenced to death by beating. Since his crime was one of love, underworld officials decided to right the injustice by delegating Hu Tianbao as the god and safeguarder of homosexual affections. In modern times, the priest Lu Wei-ming (盧威明) founded a temple in Yonghe City, Taiwan that worships Tu'er Shen and provides spiritual comfort for homosexual Taoists.\n\nFor thousands of years, male homosexuality was referred to in literature by alluding to two semi-legendary figures from the early Zhou Dynasty. The first was Mizi Xia and the half-eaten peach which he shared with his lover, the actual historical figure, Duke Ling of Wei. The second was Lord Long Yang, who convinced an unnamed King of Wei to remain faithful to him by comparing himself to a small fish which the King might throw back if a larger fish came along. While both Mizi Xia and Lord Long Yang may have actually existed, nothing is known about them beyond their defining stories, and their presence in Chinese literature was very much that of legendary characters who served as archetypes of homosexual love.\n\nAccording to Japanese folklore and mythology, homosexuality was introduced into the world by Shinu No Hafuri and his lover Ama No Hafuri. These were servants of a primordial goddess, possibly the sun goddess Amaterasu. Upon the death of Shinu, Ama committed suicide from grief, and the couple were buried together in the same grave. In some tellings of the story, the sun did not shine on the burial place until the lovers were disinterred and buried separately, although whether the offense to the sun was due to the homosexual relationship is not stated.\n\nIn another tale, Amaterasu retreats from conflict with her brother Susanoo into a cave, depriving the Earth of sunlight and life. In order to coax Amaterasu from the cave, the deity of humour and dance, Ame No Uzume, performs a bawdy sexual dance that involved exposing her breast and vulva, and inviting Amaterasu to admire them. On Amaterasu's stepping out of the cave, the transgender kami Ishi Kori Dome held up a magical mirror, and the combination of the dance and her reflection fascinate Amaterasu so much that she does not notice other spirits closing the cave entrance behind her.\n\nShinto gods are involved in all aspects of life, including the practice of shudo (traditional pederasty). An overarching patron deity of male-male love and sex, \"Shudō Daimyōjin\", exists in some folk Shinto sects, but is not a part of the standard Shinto pantheon.\n\nOther kami associated with same-sex love or gender variance include: Shirabyōshi, female or transmasculine kami, represented as half-human, half-snake. They are linked to Shinto priests of the same name, who are usually female (or occasionally transgender men) and perform ritual dances in traditional men's clothing; Ōyamakui, a transgender mountain spirit that protects industry and childbearing; and Inari, the kami of agriculture and rice, who is depicted as various genders, the most common representations being a young female food goddess, an old man carrying rice, and an androgynous bodhisattva. Inari is further associated with foxes and Kitsune, shapeshifting fox trickster spirits. Kitsune sometimes disguise themselves as women, independent of their true gender, in order to trick human men into sexual relations with them. Common belief in medieval Japan was that any woman encountered alone, especially at dusk or night, could be a fox.\n\nHindu mythology has many examples of deities changing gender, manifesting as different genders at different times, or combining to form androgynous or hermaphroditic beings. Gods change sex or manifest as an Avatar of the opposite sex in order to facilitate sexual congress. Non-divine beings also undergo sex-changes through the actions of the gods, as the result of curses or blessings, or as the natural outcome of reincarnation.\n\nHindu mythology contains numerous incidents where sexual interactions serve a non-sexual, sacred purpose; in some cases, these are same-sex interactions. Sometimes the gods condemn these interactions but at other times they occur with their blessing.\n\nIn addition to stories of gender and sexual variance that are generally accepted by mainstream Hinduism, modern scholars and queer activists have highlighted LGBT themes in lesser known texts, or inferred them from stories that traditionally are considered to have no homoerotic subtext. Such analyses have caused disagreements about the true meaning of the ancient stories.\n\nIn general, Buddhist scripture does not distinguish same-sex sexual activity from heterosexual activity, both being seen as non-conducive to spiritual growth. Many Buddhist moral laws arise from traditional tales and legends, and this is also the case with the Buddhist view of LGBT people. For example, the monastic rules that prohibit LGBT clergy in some sects come from interpretation of the epic Mahavagga. In the Pandakavathu section of this work, tales about \"pandaka\" (sexually or gender variant people) are related. In one such story, a Pandaka first approaches a group of monks, then a group of novices, and finally elephant keepers asking those in each group to \"defile\" them. Although rejected each time and driven away, the encounters create an ethos of innuendo about the monks, leading the Buddha to bar pandakas from the clergy.\n\nAccording to Cabezón and Greenberg, this stricture is not applied to lay people, and many Buddhist stories include positive portrayals of non-sexual same-sex relationships. These are particularly common in the \"Jātaka\" stories (Indian folklore tales of Buddha's previous lives), in which the Buddha almost always has a devoted male companion. In some tales they would even be reincarnated together as animal pairs \"ruminating and cuddling together, very happy, head to head, muzzle to muzzle, horn to horn\". Although not shown as sexual, these relationships between men are loving, and contrast with the difficult marriages to shrewish wives in many stories. Harvey however, disagress and states that this is a reference to brotherly love and not a platonic relationship.\n\nIn traditional Thai Theravada Buddhism, accounts propose that \"homosexuality arises as a karmic consequence of violating Buddhist proscriptions against heterosexual misconduct\" in a previous incarnation Thai Buddhist's also believe the disciple Ānanda to have been reincarnated a number of times as a female, and in one previous life to have been transgender. Ānanda is popular and charismatic, and known for his emotionality. In one story of one of his previous lives, Ānanda was a solitary yogi that fell in love with a Nāga, a serpent king of Indian folklore, who took the form of a handsome youth. The relationship became sexual, causing Ānanda to regretfully break off contact, to avoid distraction from spiritual matters.\n\nAccording to one legend, male same-sex love was introduced into Japan by the founder of the True Word (Shingon) sect of Japanese esoteric Buddhism, Kūkai. Historians however, point that this is probably not true, since Kūkai was an enthusiastic follower of monastic regulations. Some Bodhisattvas change sexes in different incarnations, which causes some to associate this to homosexuality and transgenderism. Guanyin, Avalokiteśvara, and Tara are known to have different gender representations.\n\nIn pre-colonial Philippines, particularly in the colonies and kingdoms, account of the Death god, Sidapa. Sidapa is depicted as robust and handsome and he fought the god of war, Macanduc, and the goddess of the tides to obtain the lover he pursued: a boy.The god of death pursued one of the comely lunar deity: Bulan the boy moon. Their relationship is the perfect example of Pederasty. The myth tells how the god of death, who was lonely, saw the beauty of the moons and desired them, but he had competition. He battled and defeated the other gods and goddess. He romantically pursued the boy moon who resides in the heavens. The god of death ordered the mermaids and birds to sing praises for the boy moon. He also asked the flowers to makes sweet perfumes and nectar for Bulan, and lastly, he gave light to the fireflies so the boy moon could descend to where they could meet. Stories say that Bulan was so fair that the vicious mermaids became gentle and that the fishes and birds forgot to fly and swim. Sidapa took the boy moon to be his child bride and, as legends say and most natives still believe, they reside together sleeping in each other's arms in Mt. Majaas, in the province of Antique\n\nThe celestial creator deity of Dahomey mythology is Mawu-Lisa, formed by a merger of the twin brother and sister gods Lisa (the moon) and Mawa (the sun). In combined form, they presented as intersex or transgender (with changing gender). Other androgynous gods include Nana Buluku, the \"Great mother\" that gave birth to Lisa and Mawa and created the universe, and contains both male and female essences.\n\nThe Akan people of Ghana have a pantheon of gods that includes personifications of celestial bodies. These personification manifest as androgynous or transgender deities, and include Abrao (Jupiter), Aku (Mercury), and Awo (Moon).\n\nPossession by spirits is an integral part of Yoruba and other African spiritual traditions. The possessed are usually women, but can also be men, and both genders are regarded as the \"bride\" of the deity while possessed. The language used to describe possession has a sexual and violent connotation but unlike in Yoruba-derived American religions, there is no link assumed between possession and homosexual or gender variant activity in everyday life.\n\nThe mythology of the Shona people of Zimbabwe is ruled over by an androgynous creator god called Mwari, who occasionally splits into separate male and female aspects.\n\nFew records of homosexuality exist in Egyptian mythology, and the written and pictorial works are reticent in representing sexualities. The sources that do exist indicate that same-sex relations were regarded negatively, and that penetrative sex was an aggressive act of dominance and power, shameful to the receiver, a common view in the Mediterranean basin area.\n\nThe most well-known example of this occurs in the power-struggle between the sky-god Horus, and his uncle Set, the destructive god of the desert. Set's attempts to prove his superiority include schemes of seduction, in which he compliments Horus on his buttocks and tries to anally penetrate him. Unknowingly failing, Set ejaculates between Horus's thighs, allowing Horus to collect his semen to use against him. Set believes that he has conquered Horus by having \"performed this aggressive act against him\". Horus subsequently throws it in the river, so that he may not be said to have been inseminated by Set. Horus then deliberately spreads his own semen on some lettuce, which was Set's favorite food (the Egyptians thought that lettuce was phallic). After Set has eaten the lettuce, they go to the gods to try to settle the argument over the rule of Egypt. The gods first listen to Set's claim of dominance over Horus, and call his semen forth, but it answers from the river, invalidating his claim. Then, the gods listen to Horus' claim of having dominated Set, and call his semen forth, and it answers from inside Set. The association with an evil god such as Set reinforces the negativity of homosexual relationships, even for the active, participant.\n\nAt least some authors, however, have interpreted an at least more neutral message. In some versions, the act between Horus and Set was consensual, if improper, and Set's consumption of Horus' seed produced Thoth's lunar disc, thus being somewhat positive in outcome. Likewise, Set was not demonised until very late in Egyptian history, and the sexual act has been recorded since the first versions.\n\nHuman fertility was a major aspect of Egyptian mythology, and was often entwined with the crop fertility provided by annual flooding of the river Nile. This connection was shown in iconography of Nile-gods, such as Hapy, god of the Nile River, and Wadj-wer, god of the Nile Delta, who although male were depicted with female attributes such as pendulous breasts, symbolizing the fertility the river provides.\n\nMany female pharaohs and goddesses were depicted with male genitalia and it is known a few took male descriptions.\n\nIsis and her sister Nephthys are considered to possibly be a couple, both having children with Osiris and Wadjet the scorpion goddess is also associated with her. Isis also appeared in the Greek myth of Iphis, allowing two women to marry.\n\nThe indigenous population of Australia have a shamanistic religion, which includes a pantheon of gods. The rainbow serpent god Ungud has been described as androgynous or transgender. Shaman identify their erect penises with Ungud, and his androgyny inspires some to undergo ceremonial subincision of the penis. Angamunggi is another transgender rainbow-serpent god, worshipped as a \"giver of life\".\n\nOther Australian mythological beings include Labarindja, blue-skinned wild women or \"demon women\" with hair the colour of smoke. Stories about them show them to be completely uninterested in romance or sex with men, and any man forcing his attention upon them could die, due the \"evil magic in their vaginas\". They are sometimes depicted as gynandrous or intersex, having both a penis and a vagina. This is represented in ritual by having their part played by men in women's clothes.\n\nPolynesian religions feature a complex pantheon of deities. Many of these gods refer to their companions of either sex as \"aikane\", a term encompassing passionate friendship and sexual-love, often in bisexual contexts.\n\nWahineomo, a goddess of Hawaiian mythology whose name means \"thrush woman\", is depicted in relationships with other goddesses Hi'iaka and Hopoe. When Hi'iaka was suspected of infidelity with her sister Pele's husband, the volcano goddess Pele killed Hi'iaka's beloved Hopoe by covering her in lava. In addition to Wahineomo and Hopoe, Hi'iaka had lesbian relationships with the fern goddess Pauopalae and Pele-devotee Omeo. Omeo was part of the retinue that brought the bisexual Prince Lohiau to Pele after his death. During his life Lohiau was the lover of both the female Pele and male Paoa.\n\nOther Polynesian LGBT gods include the gay couple Pala-Mao and Kumi-Kahi, and the bisexual goddess Haakauilanani, who was both servant and lover of the \"Earth mother\" creator goddess Papa and her husband Wakea. Non-divine LGBT characters also exist in Polynesian mythology, such as the (male) shaman Pakaa and his chief and lover Keawe-Nui-A-'umi, and the famed fisherman Nihooleki, who was married to a woman but also had a relationship with the pig god Kamapua'a. Kamapua'a was also responsible for sending the love-god Lonoikiaweawealoha to seduce Pele's brother gods Hiiakaluna and Hiiakalalo, hence distracting them from attacking him. Kamapua'a's other male lovers included Limaloa, the bisexual god of the sea and mirages.\n\nHi'iaka, a daughter or sister of Pele had several female lovers including Hopoe, Omeo, Wahineʻomaʻo, and Pauo-Palae\n\nThird gender, or gender variant, spiritual intermediaries are found in many Pacific island cultures, including the bajasa of the Toradja Bare'e people of Celebes, the bantut of the Taosug people of the south Philippines, and the bayoguin of the pre-Christian Philippines. These shamans are typically biologically male but display feminine behaviours and appearance. The pre-Christian Philippines had a polytheistic religion, which included the transgender or hermaphroditic gods Bathala and Malyari, whose names means \"Man and Woman in One\" and \"Powerful One\" respectively; these gods are worshipped by the Bayagoin.\n\nThe Big Nambas of Vanuatu have the concept of divinely approved-of homoerotic relationships between men, with the older partner called the \"dubut\". This name is derived from the word for shark, referring to the patronage of the shark-human hydrid creator god Qat.\n\nAmong their pantheon of deities, the Ngaju Dayak of Borneo worship Mahatala-Jata, an androgynous or transgender god. The male part of this god is Mahatala, who rules the Upperworld, and is depicted as a hornbill living above the clouds on a mountain-top; the female part is Jata, who rules the Underworld from under the sea in the form of a water-snake. These two manifestations are linked via a jewel-encrusted bridge that is seen in the physical world as a rainbow. Mahatala-Jata is served by \"balian\", female hierodules, and \"basir\" transgender shamans metaphorically described as \"water snakes which are at the same time hornbills\". Similar transgender shamans, the \"manang bali\", are found in the Iban Dayak people. Girls fated to become manang bali may first dream of becoming a woman and also of being summoned by the god/dess Menjaya Raja Manang or the goddess Ini. Menjaya Raja Manang began existence as a malegod, until his brother's wife became sick. This prompted Menjara into becoming the world's first healer, allowing her to cure her sister-in-law, but this treatment also resulted in Menjara changing into a woman or androgynous being.\n\nThe Mayan god Chin, reported from the sixteenth century, is said to have introduced homoeroticism into the Mayan culture and subsequently became associated with same-sex love. His example inspired noble families to purchase young men as lovers for their sons, creating legal relationships akin to marriage. An important Mayan deity best known from the Classical period (200-900 AD), the so-called Tonsured Maize God, is often depicted in Maya art as an effeminate young man associated with art and dance, and is thought to have constituted a 'third gender'.\n\nXochipilli ('Flower Prince') was the god of art, games, beauty, dance, flowers, maize, and song in Aztec mythology, and also the patron of homosexuals and homosexual prostitutes . This role \"suggests a complex set of associations including the role of entertainer, the love of exotic foods and perfumes, male gender variance, and same-sex eroticism\".\n\nIn Inuit shamanism, the first two humans were Aakulujjuusi and Uumarnituq, both male. This same-sex couple desired company and decided to mate. This sexual encounter resulted in pregnancy for Uumarnituq. As he was physically not equipped to give birth, a spell was cast that changed his sex, giving him a vagina capable of passing the child. The now-female Uumarnituq was also responsible for introducing war into the world via magic, in order to curb overpopulation. The goddess Sedna is an Inuit creator deity, with dominion of marine animals. She is depicted as gynandrous or hermaphroditic in some myths, and is served by two-spirit shamans. Other myths show Sedna as a bisexual or lesbian, living with her female partner at the bottom of the ocean.\n\nMany stories of Native Americans include Coyote seducing apparently lesbian couples, usually much to his detriment in the end. Other great spirits will sometimes take over a female body if no other presents itself when they wish to seduce a beautiful young woman.\n\nA large number of spirits or deities (lwa) exist in Haitian and Louisiana Voodoo. These lwa may be regarded as families of individuals or as a singular entity with distinct aspects, with links to particular areas of life.\n\nSome lwa have particular links with magic, ancestor worship or death such as the Ghedes and Barons. A number of these are further particularly associated with transgenderism or same-sex interactions. These include Ghede Nibo, a spirit caring for those who die young. He is sometimes depicted as an effeminate drag queen and inspires those he inhabits to lascivious sexuality of all kinds, especially transgender or lesbian behaviour in women. Ghede Nibo's parents are Baron Samedi and Maman Brigitte; Baron Samedi is the leader of the Ghedes and Barons and is depicted as bisexual dandy or occasionally transgender, wearing a top-hat and frock coat along with a women's skirts and shoes. Samedi has a tendency toward \"lascivious movements\" that cross gender boundaries and also imply a lust for anal sex.\n\nOther barons displaying gay behaviour are Baron Lundy and Baron Limba, who are lovers and teach a type of homoerotic nude wrestling at their school, believed to increase magical potency. Baron Oua Oua, who often manifests with a childlike aspect, has been called the baron \"most closely linked to homosexuality\" by Voodoo practictioners.\n\nAnother lwa, Erzulie, is associated with love, sensuality and beauty. Erzulie can manifest aspects that are LGBT-related, including transgender or amazonian traits, in addition to traditionally feminine guises. When inhabiting men, these aspects can result in transgender or homoerotic behaviour, whereas they may result in lesbianism or anti-male sentiment in women. Erzulie Freda is seen as the protector of gay men, and Erzulie Dantor is associated with lesbians.\n\nSantería and Candomblé are syncretic religions derived from Yoruba diasporic beliefs and catholicism, most prevalent in South Americas, including Cuba and Brazil. Their mythologies have many similarities to that of Yoruba, and contains a pantheon of Oríshas (spirits), comparable to (and often identified with) the lwa of Voodoo.\n\nIn one Cuban Santería \"pataki\", or mythological story, the sea goddess Yemaha is tricked into incestuous sex with her son Shango. To hide her shame at this event, she banished her other two sons, Inle and Abbata, to live at the bottom of the ocean, additionally cutting out Inle's tongue and making Abbata deaf. As a result of their isolation and loneliness, Inle and Abbata become passionate friends and then lovers, able to communicate empathically. This pataki is used to explain the origin of incest, muteness, and deafness in addition to homosexuality.\n\nThe ancient regions of Mesopotamia and Canaan were inhabited by a succession of overlapping civilisations: Sumer, Phoenicia, Akkadia, Babylonia, Assyria. The mythologies of these people were interlinked, often containing the same stories and mythological gods and heroes under different names.\n\nThe Sumerian creation myth, \"The Creation of Man\", from circa 2000 BCE, lists a number of physically differing people created by the goddess Ninmah. These included \"the woman who cannot give birth\" and \"the one who has no male organ or female organ\", which have been regarded as being third gender or androgynous. Enki, the supreme god, is accepting of these people and assigns them roles in society as \"naditu\" (priestesses) and \"girsequ\" (servants to the king). The Akkadian mythical epic \"Atrahasis\" contains another iteration of this story, in which Enki specifically requests that Nintu create a \"third-category\" of people that includes third-gender people, barren women, and an \"infant-stealing demon\".\n\nIn ancient Mesopotamia, worship of the goddess Inanna included \"soothing laments\" sung by third gender priests called \"gala\". According to old Babylonian texts, these priests were created specifically for this purpose by the god Enki. Some gala took female names, and the word itself means \"penis+anus\", hinting at their androgynous status. The cultural practice, or \"me\", of androgynous, third-gender or homoerotically inclined priests were part of those said to have been stolen by Innana from Enki in \"The Descent of Innana\" myth. In the Babylonian \"Erra\" myth, the gender of the \"kurggaru\" and \"assinnu\" priests was supernaturally changed by the goddess Ishtar, making them feminine. The changes may also facilitate possession by the goddess, causing a psychological change or prompting physical castration.\n\nThe relationship between the semi-divine hero Gilgamesh and his \"intimate companion\" Enkidu in the Sumerian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" has been interpreted as a sexual one by some modern scholars. Enkidu was created as a companion to Gilgamesh by the goddess Aruru, and civilised by a harlot. As Gilgamesh and Enkidu were of similar ages and status, their relationship has been seen as relatively egalitarian, in contrast with the typically pederastic mode of ancient Greece or Persia.\n\nZoroastrianism has been said to have a \"hatred of male anal intercourse\". This is reflected in its mythology: When Ahriman, the \"Spirit of Aridity and Death\" and \"Lord of Lies\", seeks to destroy the world, he engages in self-sodomy. This homosexual self intercourse causes an \"explosion of evil power\" and results in the birth of a host of evil minions and demons. Ahriman has also been regarded as the patron of men who partake of homosexual sex. However, this negative portrayal of homosexuality in Zoroastrianism is not found in the Gathas, their original holy book which is said to be the direct sayings of the prophet Zoroaster.\n\nThe story of David and Jonathan has been described as \"biblical Judeo-Christianity's most influential justification of homoerotic love\". The relationship between David and Jonathan is mainly covered in the Old Testament First Book of Samuel, as part of the story of David's ascent to power. The mainstream view found in modern biblical exegesis argues that the relationship between the two is merely a close platonic friendship. However, there has recently been a tradition of interpreting the love between David and Jonathan as romantic or sexual.\n\nAnother biblical hero, Noah, best known for his building an ark to save animals and worthy people from a divinely caused flood, later became a wine-maker. One day he drinks too much wine, and fell asleep naked in his tent. When his son Ham enters the tent, he sees his father naked, and Canaan, One of Ham's sons is cursed with banishment. In Jewish tradition, it is also suggested that Ham had anal sex with Noah or castrated him.\n\nRuth and Naomi are often thought to have been a couple, Ruth only remarrying to satisfy the law at the time and ensure her and Naomi's safety. When Ruth gave birth the women of the town said that the baby was Naomi's. To this day the vow Ruth made to Naomi is used in many lesbian weddings.\n\nSaints Sergius and Bacchus: Sergius and Bacchus's close relationship has led many modern commentators to believe they were lovers. The most popular evidence for this view is that the oldest text of their martyrology, in the Greek language, describes them as \"erastai\", or lovers. Historian John Boswell considered their relationship to be an example of an early Christian same-sex union, reflecting his contested view of tolerant early Christian attitudes toward homosexuality. The official stance of the Eastern Orthodox Church is that the ancient Eastern tradition of adelphopoiia, which was done to form a \"brotherhood\" in the name of God, and is traditionally associated with these two saints, had no sexual implications. In a similar matter regarding paired male saints, Saints Cosmas and Damian have been referred as potentially originally having homoerotic overtones, and that later Christian traditions added them being brothers to conceal that.\n\nSaint Sebastian is a long-standing gay icon. The combination of his strong, shirtless physique, the symbolism of the arrows penetrating his body, and the look on his face of rapturous pain have intrigued artists (gay or otherwise) for centuries, and began the first explicitly gay cult in the 19th century. Richard A. Kaye wrote, \"contemporary gay men have seen in Sebastian at once a stunning advertisement for homosexual desire (indeed, a homoerotic ideal), and a prototypical portrait of tortured closet case.\"\n\nIslamic folk beliefs remain common, such as the myths surrounding the Jinn, long-lived shapeshifting spirits created from “smokeless fire” (Quran 15:27) and which correspond to the second group of angels who were created on the 5th day of Creation in the Jewish Qabalistic text, the Bahir (“The Illumination”) which were created from “flameless fire”. Some believe their shapeshifting abilities allow them to change gender at will but this is not consistent throughout the Islamic world although their ability to fly and travel exceedingly fast are consistent traits of the Jinn. The word Jinn means \"hidden from sight\" and they are sometimes considered to be led by Shaytaan (Arabic for “Satan”) (who is the Devil also known in Islam as Iblis “he who causes despair”), representing powers of magic and rebellion, and posing as bringers of wealth as the devil acclaim.\n\nThese traits are associated with the Jinn on account of Shaytaan's rebellion against the order of Allah to acknowledge Adam's ability to be superior to the Jinn and his refusal to bow down stating that “he was created from fire and Adam was created from clay”.(Quran 7:11-12). The ability of the Jinn to travel to the heavens and listen to the discussion of angels and bring back what they overhear and relay it to seers and oracles has linked them with magic (Quran 72:8-10).\n\nJinn are served Al-Jink and Mukhannathun, transgender and homoerotically-inclined wanderers with entertainment and spiritual functions. In the pre-Islamic Arabic and Oikoumene cultures, third-gender individuals, such as Mukhannathun were worshippers in widespread Goddess cults. These cults revered a trio of goddesses: Al-lāt, Al-Uzza, and Manāt Al-lāt, Al-Uzza, and Manāt. which in pre-Islamic Arabia were believed to be daughters of Allah but were denounced as false idols by Muhammad and the Quran (53:19-23).\n\nArabian mythology also contains magical sex-changing springs or fountains, such as Al-Zahra. Upon bathing in or drinking from Al-Zahra, a person will change sex. The folklore of Swat, in northern Pakistan often includes same-sex relationships in which the \"beloved\" is a handsome younger man or boy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54673422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54673422", "title": "Lands and Liberties of the Church at Ely", "text": "Lands and Liberties of the Church at Ely\n\nThe Lands and Liberties of the Church at Ely was a 1080 court case and an appeal, where the Abbott of Ely sought recovery of lands that had been taken at the Conquest, 14 years beforehand.\n\nThe liberty of Ely was established in (King) Edgar's charters for the refounded monastery in 970. Edward the Confessor reiterated the liberties in 1052 and then William the Conqueror restated them.\n\nWherever the church of Ely had lands, it had its own courts where defendants in cases of theft could vouch to warranty. Severing of a hand and death were among the common penalties for significant theft.\n\nThe court case can be viewed as a part of a large collection of pleadings against a process of Normanization that within a decade saw 64% of land in England consolidated into the hands of just 150 individuals, and many of the nobility and churches deprived of their estates.\n"}
{"id": "17377472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17377472", "title": "Liber Censuum", "text": "Liber Censuum\n\nThe Liber Censuum Romanæ Ecclesiæ (Latin for \"Census Book of the Roman Church\"; also referred to as the Codex of Cencius) is an eighteen-volume (originally) financial record of the real estate revenues of the papacy from 492 to 1192. The span of the record includes the creation of the Apostolic Camera and the effects of the Gregorian Reform. The work constitutes the \"latest and most authoritative of a series of attempts, starting in the eleventh century, to keep an accurate record of the financial claims of the Roman church\". According to historian J. Rousset de Pina, the book was \"the most effective instrument and [...] the most significant document of ecclesiastical centralization\" in the central Middle Ages.\n\nMichael Ott considers the \"Liber Censuum\" \"perhaps the most valuable source for the history of papal economics during the Middle Ages\".\n\nThe document has its roots in the \"Polyptych\" of Pope Gelasius I, created at the end of the 5th century and continued for the next four centuries. The \"Liber Censuum\" proper was assembled in 1192 by Cencius Camerarius (future Pope Honorius III), papal chamberlain to Pope Clement III and Pope Celestine II, and his assistant, William Rofio, the clerk of the papal camera, compiling information contained in the \"Collectio canonum\" of Cardinal Deusdedit (1087), the \"Liber politicus\" of the Canon of St. Peter Benedict (c. 1140), dossiers of the former chamberlain Boson (1149–1178), and the \"Gesta pauperis scolaris\" of Cardinal Albinus (1188). Albinus' \"Gesta\" was the \"most ambitious\" of the \"Liber Censuum\" predecessor records, containing—according to Albinus—\"whatever I knew or found in books of antiquities or what I myself heard and saw concerning the rights of St. Peter\". The \"Liber Censuum\" also incorporates information from a contemporary general census and rent table of church properties organized by diocese, the \"Ordo romanus\" (a description of religious ceremonies), as it pertains to the distribution of payments to the curia during such ceremonies, and works of pontifical history such as the \"Liber pontificalis\".\n\nThe earliest documentary evidence for the use of such a document of papal property rights goes back even earlier to an 1163/1164 letter from Pope Alexander III to the abbot of Lagny-sur-Marne requesting an annual payment of one ounce of gold, owed according to \"a certain work among the books of the apostolic see\". Although this specific claim dated to the time of Pope Urban II, the abbot rejected it and there is no evidence Alexander III pursued it further. Such incidences are likely what Cencius refers to in the preface of the \"Liber Censuum\" as the \"no little damage and loss\" incurred by the church as a result of earlier records being \"incomplete and neither written nor arranged authentically\". Furthermore, the \"Liber Censuum\" was compiled at a time when the papal patrimony was threatened by the Staufen emperor and individual payments from sources throughout the continent were being reduced by the evasiveness of payers and the inefficiency of the apostolic camera.\n\nThe eighteen volumes of the \"Liber Censuum\" are divided between: census and rent tables (vol. 1-7), lists of bishoprics and monasteries directly administered by the Holy See (vol. 8), the \"Mirabilia\", a mythical description of the city of Rome (vol. 9), a version of the \"Ordo romanus\" (vol. 10-11), pontifical chronicles (vol. 12-13), and a chartulary (vol. 14-18).\n\nThe dating of the \"Liber Censuum\" to 1192 comports with the date given in the work's prologue, although this date may only be accurate for the record of taxes owed to the Holy See. For example, the \"Vita Gregorii IX\" was inserted into the codex of the \"Liber Censuum\" between 1254 and 1265, likely during the tenure of Pope Gregory IX's nephew Niccolò as \"camerarius\" between 1255 and 1261.\n\nThe original version of the \"Liber Censuum\" by Cardinal Cencius begins:\n\nThe \"Liber Censuum\" described itself as an authoritative list of \"those monasteries, hospitals [...] cities, castles, manors [...] or those kings and princes belonging to the jurisdiction and property of St. Peter and the holy Roman church and owing \"census\" and how much they ought to pay\".\n\nThe value of the rights recorded in the \"Liber Censuum\" is difficult to quantify exactly, and in any case, unlikely to have been paid in full. V. Pfaff, estimating historical exchange rates, assessed the value of the revenue cited in the \"Liber Censuum\" as 1,214 gold ounces, a sum that would comprise less than 5% of Richard I of England's annual income. The \"Liber Censuum\", however, does not include several sources of papal revenue, in particular those collected in-kind and the revenues of the Basilicas of Rome.\n\nPapal historians regard the \"Liber Censuum\" as well-organized compared to the works which preceded it, and it includes empty spaces for anticipated updating. The intent was to allow future \"camerarii\" to add future entries \"until the end of the world\". The original version of the \"Liber Censuum\" was identified by Paul Fabre in the Vatican Library (\"ms Vat. Lat.\" 8486), with its blank spaces having been exhausted during the pontificate of Cencius (who was elected Pope Honorius III) and five new volumes having been added to the beginning and end of the document. A new version of the \"Liber Censuum\" was compiled by Cardinal Nicholas Roselli (d. 1362) in the 14th century.\n\nA 1228 version of the \"Liber censuum\" in the library of Florence (\"ms Riccard.\" 228) was updated through the Avignon Papacy. By the end of the 13th century the addition of the dossiers of the cities of the Papal States and other papal biographies swelled the document to thirty-three volumes. A copy of the \"Liber censuum\", along with a tiara, was given by Antipope Clement VIII to the legate of Pope Martin V in 1429 as a sign of submission.\n\nModern, edited versions of the \"Liber Censuum\", reconstructed as their editors though the original codex of Cencius would have appeared, have been produced by Fabre and Louis Duchesne (1910). Fabre's identification of other portions of the \"Liber Censuum\", for example the alleged acquiescence of King Harthacanute to ecclesiastical taxation, are more controversial.\n\n"}
{"id": "57497990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57497990", "title": "List of US states by credit rating", "text": "List of US states by credit rating\n\nThis is a list of US states by credit rating, showing credit ratings for sovereign bonds as reported by the three major credit rating agencies: Standard & Poor's, Fitch, and Moody's.\n\n=January 2017=\n\n=Historic S&P Global Rankings =\n\n"}
{"id": "16981750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16981750", "title": "List of medical abbreviations: B", "text": "List of medical abbreviations: B\n"}
{"id": "877982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=877982", "title": "Maritime identification digits", "text": "Maritime identification digits\n\nMaritime identification digits are used by radio communication facilities to identify their home country or base area in Digital Selective Calling (DSC), Automatic Transmitter Identification System (ATIS), and Automatic Identification System (AIS) messages as part of their Maritime Mobile Service Identities. The International Telecommunication Union facilitates the assignment of MIDs to countries. This is a comprehensive list of MIDs that each country around the world uses. Note that not all countries have MIDs; those without are typically landlocked, with no access to international waters. Sorting MID assignments in numerical order reveals a regional structure, with the first digit:\n"}
{"id": "1460360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1460360", "title": "MoMA PS1", "text": "MoMA PS1\n\nMoMA PS1 is one of the largest art institutions in the United States dedicated solely to contemporary art. It is located in the Long Island City neighborhood in the borough of Queens, New York City. In addition to its exhibitions, the institution also organizes the Sunday Sessions performance series, the Warm Up summer music series, and the Young Architects Program with the Museum of Modern Art. MoMA PS1 has been affiliated with the Museum of Modern Art since January 2000 and, , attracts about 200,000 visitors a year.\n\nWhat would become MoMA PS1 was founded in 1971 by Alanna Heiss as the Institute for Art and Urban Resources Inc., an organization with the mission of turning abandoned, underutilized buildings in New York City into artist studios and exhibition spaces.\n\nRecognizing that New York was a worldwide magnet for contemporary artists, and believing that traditional museums were not providing adequate exhibition opportunities for site-specific art, in 1971 Heiss established a formal, alternative arts organization with architecture/theater critic Brendan Gill called The Institute for Art and Urban Resources, and began renovating abandoned buildings in New York City.\n\nIn 1976, Heiss opened the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in a deserted Romanesque Revival public school building, exponentially increased the organization's exhibition and studio capacity. This building, dating from 1892, served as the first school in Long Island City until 1963, when the First Ward school it housed was closed due to low attendance and the building was turned into a warehouse.\n\nIn October 1997, P.S.1 Contemporary Art Center reopened to the public after a three-year, $8.5 million renovation project designed by Los Angeles-based architecture firm Frederick Fisher & Partners. The building's facilities were increased from 84,000 to 125,000 square feet in order to include a large outdoor gallery, a dramatic entryway, and a two-story project space.\n\nIn February 1999, P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center and the Museum of Modern Art announced their institutional merger, which was stated to take 10 years and designed to preserve P.S. 1 as a center of independent experimentation and exploration.\n\nIn 2008, following the completion of a 10-year merger process with MoMA, Alana Heiss retired as director of P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center after 36 years. In 2009, Klaus Biesenbach was named Director of the renamed MoMA PS1. Biesenbach first joined at PS1 as a curator in 1997, and subsequently held the positions of Curator in MoMA's Department of Film and Media and Chief Curator of MoMA's Department of Media and Performance Art. Biesenbach left the museum for the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles in July 2018.\n\nMoMA PS1 and the Museum of Modern Art formalized their affiliation in January 2000.\nNew York City, which owns the MoMA PS1 building, endorsed the merger. The principal objective of MoMA's partnership with MoMA PS1 is to promote the enjoyment, appreciation, study, and understanding of contemporary art to a wide and growing audience. Collaborative programs of exhibitions, educational activities, and special projects allow both institutions to draw on their respective strengths and resources and to continue shaping a cultural discourse. The two institutions also integrated their development, education, marketing, financial planning and membership departments. To mark the 10th anniversary of the merger between the former P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center and MoMA, the museum changed its name to MoMA PS1 in 2010.\n\nIn 2012, Biesenbach turned MoMA PS1 into a temporary day shelter for displaced residents after Hurricane Sandy.\n\nFrom its inception, MoMA PS1 has championed the innovative and the experimental. The premiere exhibition, \"Rooms\", held in June 1976, featured the works of 78 artists, many of whom created site-specific installations in the former classrooms. For \"Rooms\", the sculptor Alan Saret cut a tiny hole in one wall, creating an almost heavenly aureole of light at one end of the third-floor hallway. The museum has featured the works of the artists Janet Cardiff, David Hammons, Kimsooja, Hilma af Klint, Donald Lipski, John McCracken, Dennis Oppenheim, Michelangelo Pistoletto, Alan Saret, Katharina Sieverding, Keith Sonnier, Michael Tracy, Franz West, Maria Lassnig, Judy Rifka, and Peter Young. A focus has been on outsider artists such as Henry Darger, who was included in \"Disasters of War: Francisco de Goya, Henry Darger, Jake and Dinos Chapman\" (2000). \"Greater New York,\" a survey of little known and emerging artists working in New York City, was established in 2000 and is mounted every five years. Many exhibitions organized by MoMA PS1 travel to museums in the United States and abroad, including collaborations with Kunst-Werke Institute for Contemporary Art in Berlin.\n\nThroughout its history, MoMA PS1 has routinely organized exhibitions outside of its building, including street performances throughout New York City, projects in the Rockaways, and international exhibitions and projects.\n\nImportant exhibitions hosted since the founding of MoMA PS1 in 1976 include:\n\nThe Young Architects Program (YAP) is an annual competition hosted by MoMA PS1 and The Museum of Modern Art that invites young architects to submit design proposals for MoMA PS1's courtyard. The winning entry is converted from concept to construction and becomes the architectural setting for MoMA PS1's summer Warm Up music series.\n\nYAP winners include:\n\nWarm Up is MoMA PS1's music series summer event. The series is housed within the architectural installation created by the winner of the annual Young Architects Program. Together, the music, architecture and exhibition program provide a unique multi-sensory experience for music fans, artists, and families alike.\n\nWarm Up was conceived in 1997 as a summer-long dance party to bring new audiences to MoMA PS1 and Long Island City, Queens. The series runs every Saturday from July through early September and draws thousands of local and international visitors each day.\n\nHighlights from the series include a notable group of international DJs and live music ensembles: DJ Harvey, Groove Collective, Afrika Bambaataa, Mad Professor, Richie Hawtin, François K, Fischerspooner, Kid Koala, Arto Lindsay, Scissor Sisters, Luke Vibert, Solange, Jamie XX, Grimes, Arca, Black Dice, Four Tet, DJ Premier, Ritchie Hawtin, Derrick May, Venus X, Mattis With, Naomi Zeichner, Dean Bein, Matt Werth, and many more.\n\nMoMA PS1 houses several long-term installations throughout the building:\n\nFrom 2004 to 2009, PS1 also ran WPS1, an Internet radio station founded by Alanna Heiss. In 2009, when Heiss left PS1 to become full-time Director of The Clocktower Gallery, WPS1 became Art International Radio. In 2013, the online radio station was renamed Clocktower Radio, a division of Alanna Heiss's Clocktower Productions project.\n\nUnder chairwoman Agnes Gund, the MoMA PS1's board of directors includes the artists Cindy Sherman and Mickalene Thomas, art historian Diana Widmaier-Picasso, fashion designer Adam Kimmel, and art collectors Adrian Cheng, Peter Norton, and Julia Stoschek. Exhibitions at MoMA PS1 are made possible by the Annual Exhibition Fund, which draws donations from the trustees. As owner of the MoMA PS1 building, New York City paid 85 percent of its renovation costs in 1997, with the rest coming from private donors. The city also contributes one-third to one-half of MoMA PS1's total annual operating budget of $1.5 million to $2 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "39309826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39309826", "title": "Monumental Head", "text": "Monumental Head\n\nMonumental Head is a 1960 bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti, installed at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., in the United States. The abstract work measures 37 x 11 3/4 x 14 3/4 inches and depicts a roughly modeled head with an extended neck.\n\n"}
{"id": "3659487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3659487", "title": "Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen", "text": "Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen\n\nMuseum Boijmans Van Beuningen () is an art museum in Rotterdam in the Netherlands. It is located at the Museumpark in the district Rotterdam Centrum, close to the Kunsthal and the Natural History Museum.\n\nThe museum opened in 1849. It houses the collections of Frans Jacob Otto Boijmans (1767–1847) and Daniël George van Beuningen (1877–1955). In the collection, ranging from medieval to contemporary art, are works of Rembrandt, Claude Monet, Vincent van Gogh, and Salvador Dalí.\n\nIn 2013, the museum had 292,711 visitors and was the 14th most visited museum in the Netherlands.\n\nThe museum was established in 1849 as \"Museum Boymans\" with the collection of Frans Jacob Otto Boijmans (1767–1847). The painter and art dealer, Arie Johannes Lamme, was named the museum's first Director. Much of the museum's original collection was destroyed in a fire in 1864.\n\nThe collection of businessman Daniël George van Beuningen (1877–1955) was added in 1958, at which point the museum acquired the name \"Museum Boymans-van Beuningen\". The spelling was changed to \"Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen\" in 1996.\n\nThe museum has a diverse collection ranging from medieval to contemporary art, with somewhat of a focus on Dutch art. Much of the collection came to the museum through the two private collections mentioned above, but many others have contributed throughout the years.\n\nAmong the best-known artists that are exhibited in the permanent exhibition of the museum are Hieronymus Bosch, Pieter Bruegel the Elder, Rembrandt, Claude Monet, Wassily Kandinsky, Vincent van Gogh, Maurizio Cattelan, Paul Cézanne, René Magritte, Salvador Dalí, Mark Rothko, Edvard Munch, Willem de Kooning, and Yayoi Kusama.\n\nThe collection also includes one of the richest assembly of works on paper (etchings, drawings, lithographs, etc.) in the world from the Middle Ages to the present times.\n\n\nThe Education Department of the Museum organises children's activities, courses, lectures and tours.\n\nARTtube is a website with videos about art and design. ARTtube is produced by Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, M HKA Antwerp, Gemeentemuseum Den Haag, Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam, De Pont, Centraal Museum Utrecht, Museum Jan Cunen and Rotterdam.\n\nMuseum Boijmans Van Beuningen produces, together with TV Rijnmond, a television series on art. Boijmans TV is based on an idea by Wilfried de Jong. Boijmans TV is created by a team of creative specialists in different disciplines. It is more than an art magazine; apart from the artists, the museum visitor, the attendant and the employee of technical services appear on the series.\nEach episode of Boijmans TV can be viewed on ArtTube after it has been broadcast.\n\nSjarel Ex has been the museum director since 2004.\n\nThe museum had 292,711 visitors in 2013. That year it was the most visited museum in Rotterdam and the 14th most visited museum in the Netherlands.\n\nIt had an estimated 270,000 visitors in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "20797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20797", "title": "MusicBrainz", "text": "MusicBrainz\n\nMusicBrainz is a project that aims to create an open data music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD (compact disc) information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a compact disc metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured open online database for music.\n\nMusicBrainz captures information about artists, their recorded works, and the relationships between them. Recorded works entries capture at a minimum the album title, track titles, and the length of each track. These entries are maintained by volunteer editors who follow community written . Recorded works can also store information about the release date and country, the CD ID, cover art, acoustic fingerprint, free-form annotation text and other metadata. , MusicBrainz contained information about roughly 1.4 million artists, 2 million releases, and 19 million recordings. End-users can use software that communicates with MusicBrainz to add metadata tags to their digital media files, such as FLAC, MP3, Ogg Vorbis or AAC.\n\nMusicBrainz allows contributors to upload cover art images of releases to the database; these images are hosted by Cover Art Archive (CAA), a joint project between Internet Archive and MusicBrainz started in 2012. Internet Archive provides the bandwidth, storage and legal protection for hosting the images, while MusicBrainz stores metadata and provides public access through the web and via an API for third parties to use. As with other contributions, the MusicBrainz community is in charge of maintaining and reviewing the data. Cover art is also provided for items on sale at Amazon.com and some other online resources, but CAA is now preferred because it gives the community more control and flexibility for managing the images.\n\nBesides collecting metadata about music, MusicBrainz also allows looking up recordings by their acoustic fingerprint. A separate application, such as MusicBrainz Picard, must be used for this.\n\nIn 2000, MusicBrainz started using Relatable's patented TRM (a recursive acronym for TRM Recognizes Music) for acoustic fingerprint matching. This feature attracted many users and allowed the database to grow quickly. However, by 2005 TRM was showing scalability issues as the number of tracks in the database had reached into the millions. This issue was resolved in May 2006 when MusicBrainz partnered with MusicIP (now AmpliFIND), replacing TRM with MusicDNS. TRMs were phased out and replaced by MusicDNS in November 2008.\n\nIn October 2009 MusicIP was acquired by AmpliFIND. Some time after the acquisition, the MusicDNS service began having intermittent problems.\n\nSince the future of the free identification service was uncertain, a replacement for it was sought. The Chromaprint acoustic fingerprinting algorithm, the basis for AcoustID identification service, was started in February 2010 by a long-time MusicBrainz contributor Lukáš Lalinský. While AcoustID and Chromaprint are not officially MusicBrainz projects, they are closely tied with each other and both are open source. Chromaprint works by analyzing the first two minutes of a track, detecting the strength in each of 12 pitch classes, storing these 8 times per second. Additional post-processing is then applied to compress this fingerprint while retaining patterns. The AcoustID search server then searches from the database of fingerprints by similarity and returns the AcoustID identifier along with MusicBrainz recording identifiers if known.\n\nSince 2003, MusicBrainz's core data (artists, recordings, releases, and so on) are in the public domain, and additional content, including moderation data (essentially every original content contributed by users and its elaborations), is placed under the Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-SA-2.0 license. The relational database management system is PostgreSQL. The server software is covered by the GNU General Public License.\nThe MusicBrainz client software library, \"libmusicbrainz\", is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License, which allows use of the code by proprietary software products. In December 2004, the MusicBrainz project was turned over to the MetaBrainz Foundation, a non-profit group, by its creator Robert Kaye. On 20 January 2006, the first commercial venture to use MusicBrainz data was the Barcelona, Spain-based Linkara in their Linkara Música service. On 28 June 2007, BBC announced that it has licensed MusicBrainz's live data feed to augment their music Web pages. The BBC online music editors will also join the MusicBrainz community to contribute their knowledge to the database. On 28 July 2008, the beta of the new BBC Music site was launched, which publishes a page for each MusicBrainz artist.\n\n\nFreedb clients can also access MusicBrainz data through the freedb protocol by using the MusicBrainz to FreeDB gateway service, mb2freedb.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22217714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22217714", "title": "MySupermarket", "text": "MySupermarket\n\nmySupermarket is an independent shopping and comparison shopping website for groceries in the United Kingdom. It retrieves price information from multiple online retailers so that customers can compare their prices.\n\nmySupermarket.co.uk launched as a UK-based supermarket shopping and price comparison site in October 2006, using data on four of the main supermarkets Sainsbury's, Tesco, Asda and Ocado.\n\nIn June 2013, the company launched a mySupermarket.com for the United States market. In July 2013, the company launched a mobile app that could be used both online and in-store.\n\nIn November 2014 \"Insights\" was launched, a real-time dashboard to track product sales and market share across UK supermarkets. The tool allowed marketers to track performance and make changes daily to their campaigns rather than waiting for post-season analysis.\n\nIn June 2015, the company launched mySupermarket SHOPS, an online shop offering wares from more than 100 local and independent UK retailers.\n\nmySupermarket Limited is a private company, owned by a group of investors and mySupermarket employees. In May 2007, mySupermarket.co.uk received a £3 million investment from venture capitalist firms, Greylock Partners and Pitango. These funds were earmarked for structured marketing of the site to increase its regular users. In April 2012, mySupermarket.co.uk received an investment of $10 million from British advertising and public relations company WPP and existing investors.\n\nThe site analyses the products in a shopper's trolley and suggests swapping some of the items for cheaper substitutes or alternate sizes that offer better value. In addition, it compares the entire price of the trolley between stores and allows the user to switch to another store at any time before transferring their trolley to their chosen supermarket. mySupermarket has multiple stores on the site with pricing taken directly from retailers' websites.\n\n\"The Guardian\" described the site in 2006 as \"pretty time consuming\" to set up. In 2007 DMG Media's \"This Is Money\" described it as having \"a very straightforward design and intuitive process\". In 2013 \"Good Housekeeping\" magazine described the site as easy to use, with better savings achieved when spending over $75.00 to avoid shipping charges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39027004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39027004", "title": "NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge", "text": "NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge\n\nThe NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge, prior to 2014 referred to as the Great Moonbuggy Race, is an annual competition for high school and college students to design, build, and race human-powered, collapsible vehicles over simulated lunar/Martian terrain. NASA sponsors the competition, first held in 1994, and, since 1996, the U.S. Space & Rocket Center hosts.\n\nStudents created vehicles dubbed \"moonbuggies\" to face challenges similar to those engineers at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center addressed in preparation for Apollo 15. On that mission, on July 31, 1971, the first Lunar Roving Vehicle extended the range of astronauts on the moon to allow for further exploration than was otherwise possible. Two other rovers were sent to the moon on subsequent missions.\n\nWith the 2014 changes in the contest, the motivation changed to mimicking design challenges faced by engineers designing rovers for future exploration missions to a variety of celestial bodies.\nThe first race, in 1994, was held on July 16, the 25th anniversary of the Apollo 11 launch. It featured six college teams who competed on the same course as had been used to test the lunar rovers previously. The University of New Hampshire finished first, in 18 minutes 55 seconds for the course with twelve obstacles. The prize was a trip for six team members to see a Space Shuttle launch. Other teams from the University of Puerto Rico at Humacao, Texas A & M University, the University of Alabama in Huntsville, Georgia Institute of Technology and Indiana University/Purdue University at Indianapolis participated.\n\nSubsequent races have been held in April. In 1996, the competition was moved to a course at the U.S. Space & Rocket Center; high school teams also began competing.\n\nThe rules change year by year, but are largely summarized thus:\n\nThe course is designed to test rovers for stability over varying simulated lunar or extraterrestrial terrain—bumpy, sloped, and rocky—including some tight turns. The first course was the actual track used by Mobility Test Articles, auditioning versions of Lunar Roving Vehicles that were used on the moon. For the third race the course was moved a few miles, to the U.S. Space & Rocket Center. There, the track has taken varying paths through the rocket park and around the permanent lunar crater feature at the museum. Each year, the obstacles change slightly.\nThe obstacles are constructed of discarded tires, plywood, some 20 tons of gravel and five tons of sand, all to simulate lunar craters, basins, and rilles. The contest is challenging: in 2009, 29 of 68 teams competing did not complete the race. Sometimes the placement of the obstacle is an issue, with some teams hitting obstacles too fast after a downhill stint.\n\nBefore students tackle the race course, their vehicles must pass inspection. At the team's start time, the two riding students must carry the buggy, collapsed to fit in a cube (pre-2014 a cube), for , then expand the rover and ride it across the obstacles and along the track, avoiding cones marking the edges of the course, bales of hay, and other obstructions, while successfully navigating the modest hills of the terrain and obstacles. After the race, another inspection assesses the condition of the vehicle, with time penalties if parts are missing.\n\nContestants are high school and university students largely from the United States, including Puerto Rico. Teams have also come from Canada, Mexico, India, Germany, and Romania to participate.\n\nNumerous awards are offered each year, some with significant prizes. First place college winners have received trips to Shuttle launches and cash prizes, while others have received weekends at Space Camp. In 2009, there were 11 categories for special recognition with 19 recipients thereof. Consistent from the beginning have been awards for fastest time and for best design. Other awards acknowledge simplicity of design, safety, tenacity, team spirit, improvement over previous years' entries, and exceptional new entries.\n\nThis list gives winners for time(ᵗ) and design(ᵈ) awards which have been consistently offered since the start. Awards were often also given for other categories but they are not included here in the interest of readability.\n\nᵗFirst place for time<br>\nᵈBest design award\n\n"}
{"id": "47170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47170", "title": "Navy List", "text": "Navy List\n\nA Navy List or Naval Register is an official list of naval officers, their ranks and seniority, the ships which they command or to which they are appointed, etc., that is published by the government or naval authorities of a country.\n\nThe Navy List fulfills an important function in international law in that warships are required by article 29 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea to be commanded by a commissioned officer whose name appears in the appropriate service list.\n\nPast copies of the Navy List are also important sources of information for historians and genealogists.\n\nThe Navy List for the Royal Navy is no longer published in hard-copy.\n\nThe Royal Navy (United Kingdom) publishes annual lists of active and reserve officers, and biennial lists of retired officers. The equivalent in the United States Navy is the Naval Register, which is updated online on a continuous basis. When a ship is removed from the Naval Vessel Register in the United States, or from a Naval List of any other country, the ship is said to be \"stricken\".\n\nGood sources of historical data on the Royal Navy \"Navy Lists\" are\n\nThe current editor of the Navy List is Cliona Willis\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92737", "title": "Preamble", "text": "Preamble\n\nA preamble is an introductory and expressionary statement in a document that explains the document's purpose and underlying philosophy. When applied to the opening paragraphs of a statute, it may recite historical facts pertinent to the subject of the statute. It is distinct from the long title or enacting formula of a law. \n\nIn parliamentary procedure using Robert's Rules of Order, a preamble consists of \"Whereas\" clauses that are placed before the resolving clauses in a resolution (formal written motion). However, preambles are not required to be placed in resolutions. According to Robert's Rules of Order, including such background information may not be helpful in passing the resolution.\n\nWhile preambles may be regarded as unimportant introductory matter, their words may have effects that may not have been foreseen by their drafters.\n\nIn France, the preamble to the constitution of the Fifth Republic of 1958 was considered ancillary and therefore non-binding until a major jurisprudential reversal by the Constitutional Council in a decision of 16 July 1971. This decision, which began with the words \"Having regard to the constitution and its preamble,\" affected a considerable change of French constitutional law, as the preamble and the texts it referred to, the Declaration of the Rights of Man of 1789 and the preamble to the constitution of the Fourth Republic, took their place alongside the constitution proper as texts understood as being invested with constitutional value.\n\nIn Canada, the preamble to the Constitution Act, 1867 was cited by the Supreme Court of Canada in the Provincial Judges Reference, to increase guarantees to judicial independence. In India, the Supreme Court frequently rules unconstitutional amendments which violate the Basic Structure of the Constitution, especially its Preamble. The Bosnian Constitutional Court, particularly citing the case law of the Supreme Court of Canada, also declared that the provisions of the preamble of the Bosnian Constitution are invested with a normative force thereby serving as a sound standard of judicial review for the Constitutional Court.\n\nDue to concern over its potential effects, the draft preamble of the proposed European Constitution, in 2002, caused much controversy because of the possible inclusion of a reference to the Christian heritage of Europe. Likewise, in Australia in 1999, a referendum on whether to adopt a new preamble was accompanied by a promise that the preamble, if adopted, could not be enforceable by the courts, as some were concerned with how the preamble could be interpreted and applied.\n\n"}
{"id": "39628887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39628887", "title": "S v Swanepoel", "text": "S v Swanepoel\n\nIn S v Swanepoel (2006), Swanepoel appeared with three other accused on charges of murder, abduction, robbery with aggravating circumstances, housebreaking and theft, and various charges relating to the unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. At his appearance in the magistrate's court, Swanepoel indicated that the date decided for the high-court trial did not suit him. He then launched the present application, and asked for an order postponing the trial for at least seven months to enable him to earn money to pay for the services of an advocate of his own choice.\n\nThe court held that to expect a court to wait for seven months to begin with the trial so that the accused could find work in order to earn an income to pay for the fees of a legal representative was beyond the limits of acceptability, as the criminal process could not be made dependent on the accused's earning ability.\n\nTherefore the application was dismissed.\n"}
{"id": "30730101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30730101", "title": "Society of North Carolina Archivists", "text": "Society of North Carolina Archivists\n\nThe Society of North Carolina Archivists (SNCA) is a tax-exempt, nonprofit organization established in 1984 to promote cooperation and the exchange of information among individuals and institutions interested in the preservation and use of the archival and manuscript resources of North Carolina.\n\nMembers include professional archivists, librarians who bear responsibility for historical records, and other persons involved in the care of manuscripts. Through the \"Society\" members are able to share information on archival methodology and the availability of research materials and discuss matters of common concern as they pertain to the archival profession in North Carolina.\n\nSNCA's annual conference, held each March, includes lectures, seminars, panel discussions, workshops, and facility tours which provide both beginner and veteran archivists the opportunity to increase their knowledge of archival trends, methods, and skills. Conference locations rotate between the western, central, and eastern part of the state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45027756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45027756", "title": "Stephen J. Bury", "text": "Stephen J. Bury\n\nStephen J. (John) Bury (born 12 May 1954) is an art historian and the Andrew W. Mellon Chief Librarian of the Frick Art Reference Library in New York City. He is known for his scholarship on artists' books, although his research interests also include the literature of art, the impact of the digital on the future of humanities, and the use of the past in the project of modernism.\n\nBury received his BA and MA in Modern History from the University of Oxford, where he was a Brackenbury Scholar of Balliol College. He studied librarianship at University College London and Victorian Studies at Birkbeck, University of London where he wrote a PhD on John Ruskin titled \"John Ruskin and History\" (defended 1990).\n\nBury began his career in 1979 as the assistant librarian of Chelsea School of Art, London, where he also taught art history and fine art practice. He became Head of Modern English Collections at the British Library in 2000 and in 2002, a Deputy Director as Head of European and American Collections, Maps, Music and Philatelic. He was Senior Responsible officer for the National Preservation Office from 2003 to 2009 and the UK Web Archiving Program from 2008 to 2010. Bury also chaired the boards of Bookworks and Matt’s Gallery, London. In 2010, he assumed his present position at the Frick Art Reference Library. Currently, he is a board member of the Exhibitions Committee of the Grolier Club, New York and the Center for Book Arts in New York, and is an active member of the planning committee for the Contemporary Artists' Books Conference, which is held annually in collaboration with the NY Art Book Fair. Bury also served as Advisory Editor to Oxford Art Online from 2011 to 2014.\n\nBury's publications focus on artists' books, which he has defined as \"books or book-like objects over the final appearance of which an artist has had a high degree of control; where the book is intended as a work of art in itself.\" He is the author of \"Artist's Books: The Book As a Work of Art, 1963–1995\" of 1995 (to be re-issued in May 2015), which combines a series of incisive essays on historical aspects of the medium with an extensive bibliography. In 2001, he published \"Artists' Multiples\" and \"Multiplication\", and in 2007, \"Breaking the Rules: The Printed Face of the European Avant-Garde, 1990–1937\" appeared. He has had an artists' book column in Art Monthly since 1997. He also regularly contributes to Cassone.\n\nBury curated the exhibition \"Breaking the Rules\" at the British Library in 2007-2008. In 2011, he curated \"Aphasic Disturbance\" at CHELSEAspace, London, which according to critic Pamela Kember brought together \"a small but carefully selected number of artists' books, multiple editions and objects to articulate new meanings or associations.\"\n"}
{"id": "34794056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34794056", "title": "Teylers Tweede Genootschap", "text": "Teylers Tweede Genootschap\n\nTeylers Tweede Genootschap (English: Teylers Second Society), also known as the \"Wetenschappelijk Genootschap\" (Scientific Society) is one of the two societies founded within the Teylers Stichting with the purpose to promote and award prizes for research. They were the result of the testament of the Dutch 18th-century merchant Pieter Teyler van der Hulst. The Second Society is focused on art and science, while the First Society is focused on theology.\n\nBoth societies were founded in 1778, and the specific areas of interest to the Second society are Physics, Biology, Literature, History, the study of Art, and Numismatics. The society has six members, and the first members appointed in 1778 by Teyler himself were:\n\nThe first task of the new society was to commission a prize medal and set up a prize contest. Like the first society, they ordered a medal from Johann Georg Holtzhey and the allegory on the front of the medal shows an all-eeing eye in a halo, with a symbolic representation of the five arts (from left to right: history (folio), poetry (lyre), physics (globe and compass), drawing (brush and palette) and numismatics (coin and medal tableau). The text around the edge means \"All sciences that relate to human civilization, have a certain common bond\". The reverse side of the medal leaves room for the date and the winner's name.\n\nThe idea was to discuss theory and present a question each year for the prize medal to be awarded. During the first ten years, only four prize medals were awarded, though five papers were published (in 1802 Jan Nieuwenhuis did not win a medal, but his paper appeared in the \"Verhandelingen\"). Sometimes just a gold medal was awarded, and sometimes both gold and silever medals were awarded, but often there were no contestants at all. The first gold medal winner was Martinus van Marum, who won the first prize in 1778 with his paper \"Phlogisteerde en niet-phlogisteerde lucht\" challenging phlogiston theory. He replaced Elout the next year and became conservator of the physics cabinet.\n\nBosch was replaced by Jean Gijsbert Decker in 1780, and Enschedé was replaced by Willem Anne Lestevenon in the same year.\n\nThe society still promotes research with prize medals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57810239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57810239", "title": "The Australian Bird Guide", "text": "The Australian Bird Guide\n\nThe Australian Bird Guide (The Guide) was published by CSIRO Publishing in 2017 and took almost 8 years to produce. The lead author is Peter Menkhorst along with Danny Rogers and Rohan Clarke. Original illustrations are by Jeff Davis, Peter Marsack and Kim Franklin.\n\nThe guide covers a total of 936 species that comprise 747 breeding residents or regular migrants, 29 introduced species and 160 vagrants. These birds are grouped as marine and costal birds, freshwater birds and terrestrial birds and then taxonomically.\n\nWeighing in at almost 1.5 kilograms and with dimensions of 24.6 cm by 17.2 cm and 3.4 cm thick with 576 pages the size and weight of this book makes it more practical as a reference book than a field guide. However, it is structured as a field guide and the authors call it a field guide in the text (see Acknowledgements page 2 and page 3 as examples).\n\nThe Guide starts with a two-page visual reference guide giving the page where each bird can be found and is then followed by an alphabetical quick reference guide. Both are useful in assisting in locating the required page for bird identification. In addition there is an extensive index at the back of the book.\n\nThis is then followed by details on how the guide was constructed, their sources of information and specifically what area and species were covered. This is followed by sections on identifying birds and on birding in Australia. \n\nBefore the detailed description of species commences there is a guide for birders to the evolution and classification of birds. While this may not be expected in such a work this section “it will get birders thinking”. This section was written by Dr Leo Joseph of the Australian National Wildlife Collection, CSIRO (Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organisation).\n\nThe Guide provides detailed maps indicating where a species or sub-species are likely to occur and shading to help identify where the birds are most likely to occur. Several of the reviewers highlighted this feature as a major positive of the guide and the \"10,000 Bird\" review considered the 2 field guides with this feature the best available.\n\nThe Foreword to \"The Australian Bird Guide\" was written by Paul Sullivan, Chief Executive of Birdlife Australia, Australia’s peak ornithological body. This foreword states that the authors and artists of this book are considered leaders in their field and that the details of species and sub-species is a first for Australian birds. It also describes how the maps are derived from data collected by thousands of people over many decades to give some of the best distribution maps seen in Australian Guides.\n\nBooktopia sees the \"Australian Bird Guide\" as \"the most comprehensive field guide to Australian birds ever seen\", and is effusive about its colour plates and comprehensive species accounts.\n\nA review of the guide by Chris Watson, Bafta-winning wildlife sound recordist was predominantly positive and includes an interview with Rohan Clark, one of the authors, which helps to understand why this new guide was developed when Australia has a significant number of existing guides. However, it does point out that some of the plates have colour problems and the reviewer is not a fan of including written bird calls. Watson finished the review with “In all truth, this could be the most pointless review I’ve ever written. Everyone is going to buy this book and everyone is going to love it. Enjoy!”\n\nWatson asked Clark in the interview if a smartphone app was being considered and he replied that it was a decision of CSIRO Publishing.\n\nAlan Pearson from the \"British Bird Guides\" also reviewed the book and while he did mention the size of the book, overall he was also very enthusiastic about the guide. While the Chris Watson review was critical of the written bird sounds this review thought they had been done very well. Pearson was also critical that the birds full length (size range) was not provided rather it provides wing size, bill length and weight.\n\nDonna Lynn Schulman reviewed this Guide for \"10,000 Birds\" and at the same time compared this guide to the most popular existing Australian bird guides. The author thought that the Australian Bird Guide edged out \"The Field Guide to the Birds of Australia, 9th edition\" by Graham Pizzey and Frank Knight, edited by Sarah Pizzey (2012).   The review thought the index of the Guide was not as good as the Pizzey and Knight guide. The reviewer preferred the Guide because of the “currency of information, denseness of text, and quality and quantity of illustrations. They also state that because of the difference in emphasis of the different guides there are many reasons to own more than one of the guides. This review looked at the following guides in its review:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8916150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8916150", "title": "The Blackwell Companion to Philosophy", "text": "The Blackwell Companion to Philosophy\n\nThe Blackwell Companion to Philosophy is a reference work in philosophy, edited by Nicholas Bunnin and E. P. Tsui-James, and published by Blackwell Publishers in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "9675034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9675034", "title": "UCR/California Museum of Photography", "text": "UCR/California Museum of Photography\n\nThe UCR/California Museum of Photography (CMP) is an off-campus institution and department of the College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences at University of California, Riverside, California, USA. The collections of UCR/CMP form the largest, most comprehensive holding of any photographic collection in the Western half of the United States. The growing UCR/CMP collections encompass every aspect of photographic arts, history, and technology.\n\nThe CMP is located in UCR ARTS, in Downtown Riverside, specifically at 3824 Main Street. \n\nThe collections are organized into four interlinked areas.\n\nThe Bingham Technology Collection has grown from the original gift of 2,000 vintage cameras donated by Dr. Robert Bingham in 1973 to a current count of 10,000 cameras, viewing devices, and photographic apparatus. In 1975, \"Popular Photography\" declared that UCR's Bingham Camera Collection was second only to the George Eastman House Collection in Rochester, New York, and the collection of the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nThe collection holds four synoptic subsets of camera technology: The Kibbey Zeiss-Ikon Collection; Curtis Polaroid Collection; Wodinsky Ihagee-Exacta Collection and the Teague Kodak Brownie Collection. Other significant artifacts include a Lewis daguerrean camera, a Simon Wing multi-lens wet plate camera, a fully functioning Caille Bros. Cail-O-Scope, and a Ponti megalethoscope. As the most complete and actively used camera collection in the western states, this resource is highly valued by photography scholars, other museums, film/video producers, book/magazine publishers, regional schools, and photo clubs.\n\nThe University Print Collection was founded in 1979 when several community patrons purchased a remarkable collection of photographic master prints from Friends of Photography. Currently, the collection exceeds 20,000 images that were created by over 1,000 photographers, including 7,000 Ansel Adams negatives. The University Print Collection includes quantities of vintage daguerreotypes, 1840s calotype negatives, Civil War era ambrotypes, and commercial tintypes as well as images from popular culture (1840s–present).\n\nA major subset of the University Print Collection is the Keystone-Mast Collection, which comprises over 250,000 original stereoscopic negatives and 100,000 paper prints. The original glass and film negatives form a vital primary record of worldwide social, cultural, industrial, agricultural historicity between 1860 and 1950. The visual online catalogs of the Keystone-Mast Collection have been available on the UCR/CMP website since 2001. A National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Preservation and Access Grant primarily funded these online catalogs.\n\nAdditional funding, by Institute for Museum and Library Services (IMLS), supports the MOAC project to create catalogs served on the California Digital Library.\n\nUCR/CMP Study Center Library and Roy McJunkin Imaging Center are interlinked research areas containing 10,000 photography monographs, manuscript materials, artists books, technical literature, exhibition catalogs, salon annuals and runs of photography periodicals, a copy stand, plus a full complement of expanding computer technology. International scholars, the education communities, and the museum staff utilize these research areas.\n\nThe Digital Virtual Collection is the digitized content of the museum’s collection. Since 1994 when the Museum first went online, UCR/CMP has added over 13,000 pages of content that include over 400 themed micro-sites and 9 major finding aids. Ongoing grants and initiatives have enabled the museum to continue work on the website and allowed for continued digitization of artifacts found in the museums collections.\n\n"}
{"id": "2683436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2683436", "title": "Uniform Crime Reporting Handbook", "text": "Uniform Crime Reporting Handbook\n\nFrequently referred to as \"The Green Book\" due to its green cover, the Uniform Crime Reporting Handbook is a publication of the United States Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The manual instructs law enforcement officers on the proper method for filling out the monthly Uniform Crime Reports returns for police records and statistics.\n\nThe Committee on Uniform Crime Records, established by the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) in 1927, published the first version of the manual in 1929. At that time, the manual defined Part I and Part II offenses and well as the Return A – Monthly Return of Offenses Known to the Police. The most recent revision of the manual was published in 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5883747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5883747", "title": "Western Development Museum", "text": "Western Development Museum\n\nThe Western Development Museum is a network of four museums in Saskatchewan, Canada preserving and recording the social and economic development of the province. The museum has branches in Moose Jaw, North Battleford, Saskatoon and Yorkton. Respectively, each branch focuses on a different theme: transportation, agriculture, economy, and people. The museum is affiliated with the Canadian Museums Association, the Canadian Heritage Information Network, and Virtual Museum of Canada.\n\nOriginally started as a grass-roots movement, the museum was founded with the passage of the Western Development Museum Act in 1949. The first home for the museum in 1949 was a refurbished hangar in North Battleford. Later the same year a similar structure in Saskatoon was converted into a second location for the museum. A third hangar was procured in Yorkton in 1951 and was likewise converted. In 1972, the first purpose-built buildings were constructed to house new locations for the museums in Yorkton and Saskatoon, followed by the addition of a new museum in Moose Jaw in 1976.\n\nThe Moose Jaw location of the museum is dedicated to all facets of transportation. (coordinates:)\n\nThis branch offers a specific focus on aviation, which is appropriate given its proximity to CFB Moose Jaw. The aviation exhibits include a dedicated Snowbirds aerobatic team display. The aircraft collection includes such exhibits as an American Aerolights Eagle ultralight, an Avro Anson bomber trainer, Canadair CT-114 Tutor in Snowbirds markings, Canadair T-33A Silver Star, Fairchild M63A3 Cornell, and a Canadair T-33 ejection seat.\n\nThe museum also has the Western Development Museum Short Line, a narrow gauge railway outdoors on the property that utilizes the only operating steam locomotive in Saskatchewan.\n\nThe North Battleford branch of the museum has displays relating to both farm and village aspects of pioneer life. The large barn is home to a number of farm animals. The museum demonstrates how farmers worked the land in the 1920s. The location has a pioneer village, which includes a grain elevator, a co-operative store, several churches, businesses, and homes. (coordinates:)\n\nThe former Saskatchewan Wheat Pool grain elevator No. 889 is from Keatley, Saskatchewan and was moved to the museum grounds in 1983.\n\nThe Saskatoon branch of the WDM was originally located on 11th Street on the city's west side, where it hosted an annual festival called \"Pion-Era\". The Saskatoon WDM relocated to its current site on the Prairieland Park grounds in the early 1970s. (coordinates:) For many years the Saskatoon branch was associated with the Saskatoon Exhibition and was instrumental in the fair being renamed \"Pioneer Days\", which incorporated Pion-Era. By the 1980s, the WDM and the Exhibition began to distance themselves from each other and by the 1990s the WDM was no longer a part of the exhibition, which in turn all but eliminated any remaining Pion-Era elements; Pioneer Days became \"The Ex\" and, later, simply \"Saskatoon Exhibition\".\nThe Saskatoon WDM is noted for its indoor recreation of a 1910-era \"boomtown\". Actual buildings from the era, combined with recreations, are kept in a climate-controlled environment and filled with artifacts of the time. Buildings on site include a homestead, a police station, a bank, a newspaper office (with working printing press), a saddle shop, a general store, and a dentist's office, to name a few. The museum also includes displays of vintage automobiles and farm equipment. The Saskatoon branch also has convention facilities and is home to the Saskatchewan Agricultural Hall of Fame. In 2005, the Saskatoon WDM underwent major renovations to its exhibit halls in celebration of Saskatchewan's centennial.\n\nThe Yorkton branch of the museum is focused on the immigrant experience. The Yorkton branch includes scenes illustrating the cultural roots of many of the groups who settled in western Canada, such as Ukrainians, English, Swedes, Germans, Doukhobors and Icelanders, among others. (coordinates:)\n\nPartial List\n\n\n"}
