{"id": "19889850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19889850", "title": "Aarno Maliniemi", "text": "Aarno Maliniemi\n\nAarno Henrik Maliniemi (surname until 1930 \"Malin\"; 9 May 1892 in Oulu – 8 October 1972 in Helsinki), was a Finnish historian, professor in church history at Helsinki University 1945-1960.\n\nMaliniemi had large knowledge in Medieval church. He has also studied early Finnish literature, and he has been editor for publications on sources and bibliographies.\n\nMaliniemi was entitled \"doctor honoris causa\" by University of Uppsala in 1952 and by University of St Andrews in 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36413089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36413089", "title": "Ahmed Skirej", "text": "Ahmed Skirej\n\nAhmed Skirej (also transcribed Skiredj) or Abu-l-Abbas Ahmed ibn al-Iyyashi Sukayrij al-Khazraji Al-Ansari al-Fasi (1878-1944) was a well known Moroccan Sufi scholar and judge. He wrote a great number of books, but is especially well known for his voluminous work on the companions of Sidi Ahmad al-Tijani: \"Kitab kashf al-Hijab ámman talaaqa bi-Shaykh Tijani mina-l As'hab\" (Raising the veil of the companions who encountered Sheikh Tijani).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6313254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6313254", "title": "Amal Saad-Ghorayeb", "text": "Amal Saad-Ghorayeb\n\nAmal Abdo Saad-Ghorayeb () is a Lebanese writer and political analyst known for her writings on the Israeli-Lebanese conflict and Hezbollah.\n\nShe worked as an assistant professor of political science at the Lebanese American University until 2008. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Birmingham, England. She was a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Middle East Center (CMEC).\n\nIn 2009, she declined the invitation to speak at the NATO Defense College, because this would have involved talking to Israeli military officers, which is against Lebanese law.\n\nHer work has appeared in \"Open Democracy\", \"Foreign Affairs\" and Lebanon's \"Al Akhbar\".\n\nHer father, Abdo Saad, is a prominent Shiite pollster; her mother is Christian.\n\nShe resides in Lebanon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "962433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962433", "title": "Ancient warfare", "text": "Ancient warfare\n\nAncient warfare is war as conducted from the beginnings of recorded history to the end of the ancient period. In Europe and the Near East, the end of antiquity is often equated with the Fall of Rome in 476 AD, the wars of the Eastern Roman Empire on its Southwestern Asian and North African borders, and the beginnings of the Muslim conquests in the 7th century. In China, it can also be seen as ending with the growing role of mounted warriors needed to counter the ever-growing threat from the north in the 5th century and the beginning of the Tang Dynasty in 618. In India, the ancient period ends with the decline of the Gupta Empire (6th century) and the beginning of the Muslim conquests there from the 8th century. In Japan, the ancient period can be taken to end with the rise of feudalism in the Kamakura period in the 12–13th century.\n\nThe difference between prehistoric and ancient warfare is less one of technology than of organization. The development of first city-states, and then empires, allowed warfare to change dramatically. Beginning in Mesopotamia, states produced sufficient agricultural surplus so that full-time ruling elites and military commanders could emerge. While the bulk of military forces were still farmers, the society could support having them campaigning rather than working the land for a portion of each year. Thus, organized armies developed for the first time.\n\nThese new armies could help states grow in size and became increasingly centralized. Early ancient armies continued to primarily use bows and spears, the same weapons that had been developed in prehistoric times for hunting. The findings at the site of Nataruk in Turkana, Kenya, have been interpreted as evidence of inter-group conflict and warfare in antiquity, but this interpretation has been challenged. Early armies in Egypt and China followed a similar pattern of using massed infantry armed with bows and spears.\nInfantry were at this time the dominant form of war, partially because the camel saddle and the stirrup were not yet invented. This infantry would be divided into ranged and shock, with shock infantry either charging to cause penetration of the enemy line or holding their own. These forces would ideally be combined, thus presenting your opponent with a dilemma: group your forces and leave them vulnerable to ranged, or spread them out and make them vulnerable to shock. This balance would eventually change as technology allowed for chariots, cavalry, and artillery to play an active role on the field.\n\nNo clear line can be drawn between ancient and medieval warfare. The characteristic properties of medieval warfare, notably heavy cavalry and siege engines such as the trebuchet were first introduced in Late Antiquity. The main division within the ancient period is rather at the beginning Iron Age with the introduction of cavalry (resulting in the decline of chariot warfare), of naval warfare (Sea Peoples), and the development of an industry based on ferrous metallurgy which allowed for the mass production of metal weapons and thus the equipment of large standing armies.\nThe first military power to profit from these innovations was the Neo-Assyrian Empire, which achieved a hitherto unseen extent of centralized control, the first \"world power\" to extend over the entire Fertile Crescent (Mesopotamia, the Levant and Egypt).\n\nAs states grew in size, speed of movement became crucial because central power could not hold if rebellions could not be suppressed rapidly. The first solution to this was the chariot which became used in the Middle East from around 1800 BC. First pulled by oxen and donkeys, they allowed rapid traversing of the relatively flat lands of the Middle East. The chariots were light enough that they could easily be floated across rivers. Improvements in the ability to train horses soon allowed them to be used to pull chariots, possibly as early as 2100 BC, and their greater speed and power made chariots even more efficient. The major limitation of the use of chariots is terrain; while very mobile on flat, hard, open ground, this is lost on any sort of rough ground, even sparse trees or bushes, small ravines or streams, or marsh, where they are surpassed in maneuverability by common foot soldiers, and later by cavalry.\n\nThe power of the chariot as a device both of transportation and of battle became the central weapon of the peoples of the Ancient Near East in the 2nd millennium BC. The typical chariot was worked by two men: one would be a bowman and fire at the enemy forces, while the other would control the vehicle. Over time, chariots carrying up to five warriors were developed. The effectiveness of these vehicles is still somewhat in doubt. In China, their chariots became the central weapon of the Shang dynasty, allowing them to unify a great area.\n\nAlthough chariots have been compared to modern-day tanks in the role they played on the battlefield, i.e., shock attacks, this is disputed with scholars pointing out that chariots were vulnerable and fragile, required a level terrain while tanks are all-terrain vehicles, and thus not suitable for use in the way modern tanks have been used as a physical shock force. The chief advantage of the chariot was the tactical mobility they provided to bowmen. Because tightly packed infantry were the formation of choice, in order for ancient generals to maintain command and control during the battle as well as for mutual protection, a force of chariots could stand off at long range and rain arrows down on the infantrymen's heads. Because of their speed, any attempts to charge the chariots could be easily evaded. If, on the other hand, an infantry unit spread out to minimize the damage from arrows, they would lose the benefit of mutual protection and the charioteers could easily overrun them.\n\nFrom a tactical standpoint this put any force facing chariots on the horns of dilemma, making chariots indispensable to armies of the day. Chariots, however, were complicated pieces of hardware that required specialized craftsmen to maintain them. Such services, therefore, made chariots expensive to own. When chariots were owned by individuals within a society, it tended to give rise to a warrior class of specialists and a feudal system (an example of which can be seen in Homer's The Iliad). Where chariots were publicly owned, they helped in the maintenance and establishment of a strong central government, e.g., the New Egyptian Kingdom. Chariot usage peaked in the Battle of Kadesh in 1274 BC, which was probably the largest chariot battle ever fought, involving perhaps 5,000 chariots.\n\nNaval warfare in the ancient world can be traced back to the third millennium BC Mediterranean as evidence of paintings on Cyclades and models of ships were being made across the Aegean. Ships in this era have been said to have served as both ordinary transportation and trade vessels as well as having some military and warfare applications. These early sea vessels would have been propelled by both oar and sail, but since the Mediterranean is known for its inconsistent weather patterns, the oar would have most likely been the primary means of propulsion.\n\nThe first documented, physical evidence of a naval battle is found in the relief painting located in the temple of Medinet Habu, near Luxor, Egypt. This relief painting depicts the victory of Ramses III over the 'Sea-Peoples' at the Nile river delta in the early twelfth century BC. These 'Sea-Peoples' are originally believed to be of Philistine and Phoenician descent, while there is speculation that there could be some Greek influence in their sea-faring. While the relief painting at the Temple of Medinet Habu is said to be the first physical documentation of naval warfare, there are earlier records that indicate that the concept and practice of sea-faring battles sprouted up as early as 2550 BC under the Egyptian Pharaoh Sahue who reportedly used transport vessels to escort his armies to foreign shores. There is even further evidence from earlier sources that illustrate sea faring and military action around the Nile Delta during the early dynastic period in Egypt following into the reign of Ramses II \n\nPrior to the victory of Ramses III over the 'Sea-Peoples', Egypt, as a sovereign state, did not have access to kind of timber needed to manufacture seafaring vessels and warships alike on a large scale. Instead of importing mass amounts of timber in order to build warships, Egyptian naval architects and early engineers began to convert the common river-going ship by reconfiguring the size of the ship while also adding heavy trees for longitudinal support of the hull on the open sea.\n\nThis newly theorized concept of rearranging and reconfiguring the common Egyptian river boat was held in high esteem and largely contributed to the victory of Ramesses III over the 'Sea-Peoples' in the Nile river delta as depicted in the relief painting at Medinet Habu. The relief shows in great detail how fighting was actually conducted in a naval battle in this time period. The Relief shows Egyptian wars ships consisting of over twenty rows of oarsmen along with infantry troops and archers fighting in apparent hand-to-hand combat with the opposing naval force. This begs the theory that there was no actual naval weaponry developed at this time but rather reliant upon maneuvering tactics and strategy in order to engage with infantry troops.\n\nAmongst the great innovations of naval warfare in the Ancient world there are few that can surpass the Trireme style warship in terms of efficiency, strategy, and over all effectiveness. The first depiction of this 'longship' style vessel can be found in Homer's the \"Iliad\" as means of transport of men armed men and supplies to areas of conflict across the seas. These ships were said to have consisted of two separate levels that could have help up to 60 men per level all operating oars in unison to propel the ship. The upper level of oarsmen would sit in single-file fashion, pulling their oars through what is called a topwale or some sort of oarport; while the men in the lower rows would sit in the ships' hold also rowing through lower oarports. It is also said that each oar throughout the ship would be made in length proportionate the physique of an average Greek man.\n\nManned crews for these massive warships would have been quite impressive, but accounts vary in actual numbers of men from source to source. Herodotus of Halicarnassus was a Greek historian in the fourth century BC who through his accounts, said that these Triremes would consist of at least two-hundred men manning all positions. With these massive crews, these ships were able to work at maximum capacity and efficiency in regards to speed, navigation, and transport. While these ships were built for maximum efficiency, there is room for debate about the conditions and space aboard the ship itself. It is estimated that out of the 200 man crew, around 170 of those men would have been oarsmen with respective positions below deck. These oarsmen below deck would sit on thwarts and kept their personal storage items beneath them, reassuring the theory that these ships would be very crowded with little room for anything other than operational functions.\n\nWhat exactly these Greek triremes were capable of in battle is debated. There are various different accounts that lay down foundations of what equipment was used and how these ships engaged in combat. The main military applications of Greek Triremes, besides the transport of troops and supplies, would be the advantages of ramming tactics. developments and innovations of the Greek Trireme evolved over time, especially in respects to ramming tactics. Naval architects during this time saw fit to bring about full effectiveness and damaging power to these ships. By doing this, the amount of manpower would stay consistent, i.e. keeping the same amount of rowing power but shortening the length of the ship to condense the ramming power while keeping speed and agility consistent. This new ideology of warfare and naval tactics would prove to be prudent to the overall military applications of the Trireme, and soon would become the principal combative strategy of the Greek navy and other navies alike.\n\nThe Greek Trireme would soon after its appearance in the Aegean, become the standard warship throughout the mediterranean as sovereign states such as Egypt and even the Persian Empire would adopt the design of these ships and apply them to their own military applications. One major attraction of the Greek design would be its efficient ramming capability but also its ability to travel long distances at fair speeds. One account from Athenian soldier and historian Xenophon, describes the voyage of Athenian fleet commander Iphicrates through unfriendly waters and the strategy he used combined with the sheer sailing power of the Trireme. \"He proceeded with his journey and at the same time made all the necessary preparations for action, at the outset leaving his main sails behind as if he was expecting an engagement. In addition, even if there was a following wind he used his small [boat] sails little, but progressed by oar [instead, presumably, of using main sails and boat sails when the wind was favourable]. Thus he both improved the fitness of his men and achieved a higher speed for his ships\".This primary source account can be interpreted as a functional and efficient use of the Greek Trireme. Maximizing its speed through rugged and unfriendly seas while also utilizing specific military strategy in order to ensure the most prudent and effective outcome was what led to the success of Trireme across all kinds of empires and civilizations throughout the Mediterranean. The Trireme would later become a vital piece of naval weaponry throughout the Persian Wars, for both the Greeks and the Persian Empire, as well as the base standard for the formation of the Roman Navy.\n\nThe Persian Wars were the first to feature large-scale naval operations: not only sophisticated fleet engagements with dozens of triremes on each side, but combined land–sea operations. Ships in the ancient world could operate only on the relatively quiet waters of seas and rivers; the oceans were off limits. Navies were almost always used as auxiliaries to land forces, often essential to bringing them supplies. They would rarely strike out on their own. With only limited-range weapons, naval galleys would often attempt to ram their opponents with their reinforced bow to cause damage or sink the enemy warships which often caused the two ships to become joined together, and initiated a boarding battle. Only occasionally was a decisive naval battle fought, such as the Battle of Lade in which a Persian navy destroyed the Greek navy.\n\nAncient strategy focused broadly on the twin goals of convincing the enemy that continued war was more costly than submitting, and of making the most gain possible from war.\n\nForcing the enemy to submit generally consisted of defeating their army in the field. Once the enemy force was routed, the threat of siege, civilian deaths, and the like often forced the enemy to the bargaining table. However, this goal could be accomplished by other means. Burning enemy fields would force the choice of surrendering or fighting a pitched battle. Waiting an enemy out until their army had to disband due to the beginning of the harvest season or running out of payment for mercenaries presented an enemy with a similar choice. The exceptional conflicts of the ancient world were when these rules of warfare were violated. The Spartan and Athenian refusal to accept surrender after many years of war and near bankruptcy in the Peloponnesian War is one such exceptional example, as is the Roman refusal to surrender after the Battle of Cannae.\n\nA more personal goal in war was simple profit. This profit was often monetary, as was the case with the raiding culture of the Gallic tribes. But the profit could be political, as great leaders in war were often rewarded with government office after their success. These strategies often contradict modern common sense as they conflict with what would be best for the states involved in the war.\n\nEffective tactics varied greatly, depending on:\n\nAncient weapons included the spear, the atlatl with light javelin or similar projectile, the bow and arrow, the sling; polearms such as the spear, falx and javelin; hand-to-hand weapons such as swords, spears, clubs, maces, axes, and knives. Catapults, siege towers, and battering rams were used during sieges.\n\nThere were a wide variety and range of weapons used in the wars and battles of times long past and while it is quite easy to identify a sword or shield and know what purpose it served, even more information can be gained from knowing where said weapon comes from and what material it is made of. Ancient Greece is one of the most looked to and studied periods of time in part due the abundance of surviving information and artifacts and this aspect can also be extended to their weaponry and armor. The Mycenaean left behind a great deal of their weapons and armor which was found in their shaft graves, in \"Arms and Armour of the Greeks\" the swords found within the Mycenaean tombs are quite similar to rapiers being quite slender and measuring in at over three feet in length. It was due to their length and slim design that they were easily broken if struck hard enough. In addition to the rapier swords, smaller yet more durable blades were found along with a few spearheads which often came in at over two feet in length; however, the spearheads were not quite as abundant as other bladed weapons as Snodgrass states that their value and use in war and hunting was too significant to spare for graves. Prior to the Bronze Age the Mycenaean helmets were constructed from crescent shaped sections of wild boar tusk and arranged in horizontal bands that alternated in direction and attached to a soft material. The soldiers’ shields were around four feet tall, if not more, made of ox hide and supported with some type of metal. As we move into the Bronze Age body armor began to appear as the smiths began working with this new metal, bronze helmets also began to make an appearance though the previous helmets made from boars’ tusks still remained in use. It was during this period that two new types of swords made a debut, they were the horned and cruciform swords. The horned sword was dubbed as such from the horn-like appearance of their hand guards and was the preferred weapon for a cutting stroke. The cruciform sword was derived and enhanced from a Minoan dagger with flanges on the hilt with rounded, right angle hand guards is how it is described within \"Arms and Armour\" . Spears continued to remain as the preferred means for a thrusting weapon, but it was during the Palace Period that they developed a socketed base. In earlier periods of Greek history, the bow and arrow was not a favored weapon for war but used primarily in hunting though in the Palace Period archery began to prosper – the arrowheads of both time periods were made of flint, bronze, or obsidian – while the bows of the Palace Period were made of goats’ horn is how Snodgrass depicts the use of archery. From the Palace Period, we move into the Late Period of Mycenae where the weapons became shorter and more suited for use in a work environment rather than in battle and the metal plated armor was no longer being put to use.\n\nMacedon was known more traditionally for having a strong cavalry rather than infantry and during Alexander’s reign the Sarissophori came into being and this was unique Alexander’s time in power. While the cavalry was more prominent the Macedon infantry, made up of the poor and peasant classes, formed into a new and unique branch of the military that was different from the hoplite. These warriors were armed with a huge pike weapon called a sarissa as well as the army being equipped with slings. The slings used almond-shaped bronze bullets that were engraved with either Philip’s or his generals’ name and as for siege warfare the Macedonians used an arrow-firing catapult. For armor, they were equipped with a metal helmet, greaves, and a shield covered with bronze.\n\nIn \"The Archaeology of Weapons\" a broader account of ancient weaponry is taken into account through the investigation of European weapons. Oakeshott believes that at some point between 1500–100 BC that the sword developed from the knife in both Minoan Crete and Celtic Britain and strongly resembles the rapiers. During the Bronze Age in the same general region several other swords were developed: the Hallstatt first appeared during this Age but did not become widely used until the Iron Age, the Carps Tongues, and the Rhone Valley swords. The Hallstatt swords gained prominence during the Iron Age and were a long sword with a rather curious point that was one of three shapes: rounded, a square shape, or similar to a fishtail, and were the preferred weapon for use in a chariot. The Carps Tongues blade were also rather large swords with the edges running parallel for two-thirds of the blade before narrowing to the usually point. The last sword is that of the Rhone Valley and is generally considered more of small sword or an overly large dagger with each hilt uniquely cast in bronze. The pommel of this type of dagger has the ends drawn out into two thin points that curve in towards the blade. Along with Hallstatt swords there were found to be spears, similar to the spearheads found in Mycenae they were quite large at fifteen inches and having a hollow socket however they were unique in that they had a small collar of bronze near where they attached to the shaft.\n\nWithin India’s long history there are several different regimes that produced unique weapons. The list of weapons primarily used in India are the battle axe, the bow and arrow, spears, spike, barbed dart, the sword, iron club, javelin, iron arrow, and the scimitar. One sword type is the katar blade, these are equipped with sword breaking bars and both the shape and size would depend on whether the bearer was cavalry or an infantryman. A curved sword such as the talwar or shamsheer was ideal for a cutting motion delivered from horseback. There were three early iron sword types being the leaf shaped, spoon shaped and the parallel sword each ideal for thrusting and jabbing as opposed to a striking or cutting motion. The Rajputs, Gurkhas, Nagas, and Coorg and Malabar each developed a weapon unique to themselves. The Rajputs wielded the khanda which is a broad and straight sword with a wider point. The Gurkhas had two swords that they preferred to use the kukri, a short sword that angled towards wide tip, and the kora, their historical war sword which was around 60 centimeters with a single edge that was rather narrow near the handler and curving towards the front. The daos had a blade equal to two feet in length that had a wide and square-like tip and the handle was made of either wood or ivory, these were the weapons that came to popularity for the Nagas. The adya katti was a single edged blade also near two feet long but with no handle and wield by the Coorg and Malabar. In Southern India, the Borobudur and the Veragal, either shaped like a hook or a wavy design, were the swords in use. A rather unique weapon used in India is the Baghnakh which are similar to a knuckle duster and were used to slit the opponent’s throat or belly.\n\nArmor in India can be found dating back to 500 BC and Vedic literature; there are several different types: leather and fabric, scale, brigandine, lamellar, mail, plate, and a combination of mail and plate. In \"Arms and Armour: Traditional Weapons of India\" it is read that the wrastrana, a breast plate, has been in use since prehistoric times though the most popular is the char-aina meaning four mirrors is a coat of mail overlaid with four elaborately designed plates. The helmets consisted of a sliding nose guard with a piece of chainmail hanging from it designed to protect the neck and shoulders. Armor was not just limited to human soldiers but extended to their horses and elephants as well. The horse armor was made up of mail and plates or lamellae which covered the neck, chest, and hindquarters underneath which was some form of padding to keep it in place while a face plate protected the animal’s face. The elephants, used as a battering ram or to break and trample enemy lines, were also donned in armor for battle. The elephant's head was covered by a steel mask and covered half of the trunk while the throat and sides were protected by lamellae armor while the tusks were tipped with sharp metal.\n\nSiege warfare of the ancient Near East took place behind walls built of mud bricks, stone, wood or a combination of these materials depending on local availability. The earliest representations of siege warfare date to the Protodynastic Period of Egypt, c. 3000 BC, while the first siege equipment is known from Egyptian tomb reliefs of the 24th century BC showing wheeled siege ladders. Assyrian palace reliefs of the 9th to 7th centuries BC display sieges of several Near Eastern cities. Though a simple battering ram had come into use in the previous millennium, the Assyrians improved siege warfare. The most common practise of siege warfare was, however, to lay siege and wait for the surrender of the enemies inside. Due to the problem of logistics, long lasting sieges involving anything but a minor force could seldom be maintained.\n\nAncient siege warfare varied from each civilization and how each city was defended differently and had to approached with different tactics. One way to ensure an army used all its troops in its siege is shown when its explained how a chariot can be used in a siege, saying that, “During the sieges, the chariots, and mostly in the Neo-Assyrian armies, were surely employed to patrol and protect the flanks and the rear of the besiegers’ lines and camp.” (UF 41 p. 5).\n\nThis shows that generals had to find new tactics to incorporate parts of their army that wouldn’t work in the siege, as shown with the chariots on patrol duty and ensuring the army was safe from a flank attack from the enemy army. This strategy ensures that all forces are used and contributing to the battle effort and helping gain victory for them and all pulling their weight as well.\n\nThroughout most of its history, ancient Egypt was unified under one government. The main military concern for the nation was to keep enemies out. The arid plains and deserts surrounding Egypt were inhabited by nomadic tribes who occasionally tried to raid or settle in the fertile Nile river valley. The Egyptians built fortresses and outposts along the borders east and west of the Nile Delta, in the Eastern Desert, and in Nubia to the south. Small garrisons could prevent minor incursions, but if a large force was detected a message was sent for the main army corps. Most Egyptian cities lacked city walls and other defenses.\n\nThe first Egyptian soldiers carried a simple armament consisting of a spear with a copper spearhead and a large wooden shield covered by leather hides. A stone mace was also carried in the Archaic period, though later this weapon was probably only in ceremonial use, and was replaced with the bronze battle axe. The spearmen were supported by archers carrying a composite bow and arrows with arrowheads made of flint or copper. No armour was used during the 3rd and early 2nd Millennium BC. As the dynasties expanded and grew upon the last that fell to gain new territory and control new people for the empire of Egypt. One of the ways the dynasties were different were the new technologies used in the later dynasties against the enemy. One example is the armies of Ramesses’ II faced off against the Hittites in the Battle of Qadesh. Both armies have cavalry units supporting their infantry and scouts to get updates on the movements. These advances differ from two groups attacking head on for control of an area and facing losses on both sides\n\nThe major advance in weapons technology and warfare began around 1600 BC when the Egyptians fought and defeated the Hyksos people, who ruled Lower Egypt at the time. It was during this period the horse and chariot were introduced into Egypt. Other new technologies included the sickle sword, body armour and improved bronze casting. In the New Kingdom, the Egyptian military changed from levy troops into a firm organization of professional soldiers. Conquests of foreign territories, like Nubia, required a permanent force to be garrisoned abroad. The Egyptians were mostly used to slowly defeating a much weaker enemy, town by town, until beaten into submission. The preferred tactic was to subdue a weaker city or kingdom one at a time resulting in surrender of each fraction until complete domination was achieved. The encounter with other powerful Near Eastern kingdoms like Mitanni, the Hittites, and later the Assyrians and Babylonians, made it necessary for the Egyptians to conduct campaigns far from home. The next leap forwards came in the Late Period (712–332 BC), when mounted troops and weapons made of iron came into use. After the conquest by Alexander the Great, Egypt was heavily Hellenized and the main military force became the infantry phalanx. The ancient Egyptians were not great innovators in weapons technology, and most weapons technology innovation came from Western Asia and the Greek world.\n\nThese soldiers were paid with a plot of land for the provision of their families. After fulfilment of their service, the veterans were allowed retirement to these estates. Generals could become quite influential at the court, but unlike other feudal states, the Egyptian military was completely controlled by the king. Foreign mercenaries were also recruited; first Nubians (Medjay), and later also Libyans and Sherdens in the New Kingdom. By the Persian period Greek mercenaries entered service into the armies of the rebellious pharaohs. The Jewish mercenaries at Elephantine served the Persian overlords of Egypt in the 5th century BC. Although, they might also have served the Egyptian Pharaohs of the 6th century BC.\n\nAs far as had been seen from the royal propaganda of the time, the king or the crown prince personally headed the Egyptian troops into battle. The army could number tens of thousands of soldiers, so the smaller battalions consisting of 250 men, led by an officer, may have been the key of command. The tactics involved a massive strike by archery followed by an infantry and/or chariotry attacking the broken enemy lines. The enemies could, however, try to surprise the large Egyptian force with ambushes and by blocking the road as the Egyptian campaign records informs us.\n\nWithin the Nile valley itself, ships and barges were important military elements. Ships were vital for providing supplies for the troops. The Nile river had no fords so barges had to be used for river crossings. Dominating the river often proved necessary for prosecuting sieges, like the Egyptian conquest of the Hyksos capital Avaris. Egypt had no navy to fight naval battles at sea before the Late Period. However, a battle involving ships took place at the Egyptian coast in the 12th century BC between Ramesses III and seafaring raiders.\n\nAncient Persia first emerged as a major military power under Cyrus the Great. Its form of warfare was based on massed infantry in light armor to pin the enemy force whilst cavalry dealt the killing blow. Cavalry was used in huge numbers but it is not known whether they were heavily armored or not. Most Greek sources claim the Persians wore no armor, but we do have an example from Herodotus which claims that an unhorsed cavalry Officer wore a gold cuirass under his red robes. Chariots were used in the early days but during the later days of the Persian Empire they were surpassed by horsemen. During the Persian Empire's height, they even possessed war elephants from North Africa and distant India. The elite of the Persian Army were the famous Persian Immortals, a 10,000 strong unit of professional soldiers armed with a spear, a sword and a bow. Archers also formed a major component of the Persian Army.\n\nPersian tactics primarily had four stages involving archers, infantry and cavalry. The archers, which wielded longbows, would fire waves of arrows before the battle, attempting to cut the enemy numbers down prior battle. The cavalry would then attempt to run into the enemy and sever communications between generals and soldiers. Infantry would then proceed to attack the disoriented soldiers, subsequently weakened from the previous attacks.\n\nDuring the Vedic period (fl. 1500–500 BC), the \"Vedas\" and other associated texts contain references to warfare. The earliest allusions to a specific battle are those to the Battle of the Ten Kings in Mandala 7 of the Rigveda.\n\nThe two great ancient epics of India, \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\" (c. 1000–500 BC) are centered on conflicts and refer to military formations, theories of warfare and esoteric weaponry. Valmiki's \"Ramayana\" describes Ayodhya's military as defensive rather than aggressive. The city, it says, was strongly fortified and was surrounded by a deep moat. \"Ramayana\" describes Ayodhya in the following words: \"The city abounded in warriors undefeated in battle, fearless and chinskilled in the use of arms, resembling lions guarding their mountain caves\". \"Mahabharata\" describes various military techniques, including the \"Chakravyuha\".\n\nThe world's first recorded military application of war elephants is in the Mahabharatha. From India, war elephants were brought to the Persian Empire where they were used in several campaigns. The Persian king Darius III employed about 50 Indian elephants in the Battle of Gaugamela (331 BC) fought against Alexander the Great. In the Battle of the Hydaspes River, the Indian king Porus, who ruled in Punjab, with his smaller army of 200 war elephants, 2000 cavalry and 20,000 infantry, presented great difficulty for Alexander the Great's larger army of 4000 cavalry and 50,000 infantry, though Porus was eventually defeated. At this time, the Nanda Empire further east in northern and eastern India had an army of 6000 war elephants, 80,000 cavalry, 200,000 infantry and 8000 armed chariots.\n\nChanakya (c. 350–275 BC) was a professor of political science at Takshashila University, and later the Prime Minister of emperor Chandragupta Maurya, the founder of the Maurya Empire. Chanakya wrote the \"Arthashastra\", which covered various topics on ancient Indian warfare in great detail, including various techniques and strategies relating to war. These included the earliest uses of espionage and assassinations. These techniques and strategies were employed by Chandragupta Maurya, who was a student of Chanakya, and later by Ashoka (304–232 BC).\n\nChandragupta Maurya conquered the Magadha Empire and expanded to all of northern India, establishing the Maurya Empire, which extended from the Arabian Sea to the Bay of Bengal. In 305 BC, Chandragupta defeated Seleucus I Nicator, who ruled the Seleucid Empire and controlled most of the territories conquered by Alexander the Great. Seleucus eventually lost his territories in Southern Asia, including southern Afghanistan, to Chandragupta. Seleucus exchanged territory west of the Indus for 500 war elephants and offered his daughter to Chandragupta. In this matrimonial alliance the enmity turned into friendship, and Seleucus' dispatched an ambassador, Megasthenes, to the Mauryan court at Pataliputra. As a result of this treaty, the Maurya Empire was recognized as a great power by the Hellenistic World, and the kings of Egypt and Syria sent their own ambassadors to his court. According to Megasthenes, Chandragupta Maurya built an army consisting of 30,000 cavalry, 9000 war elephants, and 600,000 infantry, which was the largest army known in the ancient world. Ashoka went on to expand the Maurya Empire to almost all of South Asia, along with much of Afghanistan and parts of Persia. Ashoka eventually gave up on warfare after converting to Buddhism.\n\nAncient China during the Shang Dynasty was a Bronze Age society based on chariot armies. Archaeological study of Shang sites at Anyang have revealed extensive examples of chariots and bronze weapons. The overthrow of the Shang by the Zhou saw the creation of a feudal social order, resting militarily on a class of aristocratic chariot warriors (士).\n\nIn the Spring and Autumn period, warfare increased exponentially. \"Zuo zhuan\" describes the wars and battles among the feudal lords during the period. Warfare continued to be stylised and ceremonial even as it grew more violent and decisive. The concept of military hegemon (霸) and his \"way of force\" (霸道) came to dominate Chinese society. Sun Tzu created a book that still applies to today's modern armies.\n\nFormations of the army can be clearly seen from the Terracotta Army of Qin Shi Huang, the first Emperor in the history of China to be successful in unification of different warring states. Light infantry acting as shock troops lead the army, followed by heavy infantry as the main body of the army. Wide usage of cavalry and chariots behind the heavy infantry also gave the Qin army an edge in battles against the other warring states.\n\nWarfare became more intense, ruthless and much more decisive during the Warring States period, in which great social and political change was accompanied by the end of the system of chariot warfare and the adoption of mass infantry armies. Cavalry was also introduced from the northern frontier, despite the cultural challenge it posed for robe-wearing Chinese men. Chinese river valley civilizations would adopt nomadic \"pants\" for their cavalry units and soldiers.\n\nIn general, most features of the hoplite panoply of classical Greek antiquity, were already known during the Late Bronze Age by Mycenaean Greeks (c. 1600–1100 BC). Mycenaean Greek society invested in the development of military infrastructure, while military production and logistics were supervised directly from the palatial centers.\n\nInfantry did almost all of the fighting in Greek battles. The Greeks did not have any notable cavalry tradition except the Thessalians. Hoplites, Greek infantry, fought with a long spear and a large shield, the hoplon also called aspis. Light infantry (psiloi) peltasts, served as skirmishers.\n\nDespite the fact that most Greek cities were well fortified (with the notable exception of Sparta) and Greek siege technology was not up to the task of breaching these fortifications by force, most land battles were pitched ones fought on flat-open ground. This was because of the limited period of service Greek soldiers could offer before they needed to return to their farms; hence, a decisive battle was needed to settle matters at hand. To draw out a city's defenders, its fields would be threatened with destruction, threatening the defenders with starvation in the winter if they did not surrender or accept battle.\n\nThis pattern of warfare was broken during the Peloponnesian War, when Athens' command of the sea allowed the city to ignore the destruction of the Athenian crops by Sparta and her allies by shipping grain into the city from the Crimea. This led to a warfare style in which both sides were forced to engage in repeated raids over several years without reaching a settlement. It also made sea battle a vital part of warfare. Greek naval battles were fought between triremes – long and speedy rowing ships which engaged the enemy by ramming and boarding actions.\n\nDuring the time of Philip II of Macedon and Alexander the Great, the Macedonians were regarded as the most complete well co-ordinated military force in the known world. Although they are best known for the achievements of Alexander the Great, his father Philip II of Macedon created and designed the fighting force Alexander used in his conquests. Before this time and for centuries their military prowess was nowhere near that the sarissa phalanx offered.\n\nHowever prior to the improvements made by Philip II of Macedon armies fought in the traditional manner of the Greeks; that of the hoplite phalanx.\n\nPhilip provided his Macedonian soldiers in the phalanx with sarissa, a spear which was 4–6 meters in length. The sarissa, when held upright by the rear ranks of the phalanx (there were usually eight ranks), helped hide maneuvers behind the phalanx from the view of the enemy. When held horizontal by the front ranks of the phalanx, enemies could be run through from far away.The hoplite type troops were not abandoned, but were no longer the core of the army.\n\nIn 358 BC he met the Illyrians in battle with his reorganized Macedonian phalanx, and utterly defeated them. The Illyrians fled in panic, leaving the majority of their 9,000-strong army dead. The Macedonian army invaded Illyria and conquered the southern Illyrian tribes.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Illyrians, Macedon's policy became increasingly aggressive. Paeonia was already forcefully integrated into Macedon under Philip's rule. In 357 BC Philip broke the treaty with Athens and attacked Amphipolis which promised to surrender to the Athenians in exchange for the fortified town of Pydna, a promise he didn't keep. The city fell back in the hands of Macedonia after an intense siege. Then he secured possession over the gold mines of nearby Mount Pangaeus, which would enable him to finance his future wars.\n\nIn 356 the Macedonian army advanced further eastward and captured the town of Crenides (near modern Drama) which was in the hands of the Thracians, and which Philip renamed after himself to Philippi. The Macedonian eastern border with Thrace was now secured at the river Nestus (Mesta).\n\nPhilip next marched against his southern enemies. In Thessaly he defeated his enemies and by 352, he was firmly in control of this region. The Macedonian army advanced as far as the pass of Thermopylae which divides Greece in two parts, but it did not attempt to take it because it was strongly guarded by a joint force of Athenians, Spartans, and Achaeans.\n\nHaving secured the bordering regions of Macedon, Philip assembled a large Macedonian army and marched deep into Thrace for a long conquering campaign. By 339 after defeating the Thracians in series of battles, most of Thrace was firmly in Macedonian hands save the most eastern Greek coastal cities of Byzantium and Perinthus who successfully withstood the long and difficult sieges. But both Byzantium and Perinthus would have surely fallen had it not been for the help they received from the various Greek city-states, and the Persian king himself, who now viewed the rise of Macedonia and its eastern expansion with concern. Ironically, the Greeks invited and sided with the Persians against the Macedonians, although Persia had been the nation hated the most by Greece for more than a century. The memory of the Persian invasion of Greece some 150 years ago was still alive, but the current politics for the Macedonians had put it aside.\n\nMuch greater would be the conquests of his son, Alexander the Great, who would add to the phalanx a powerful cavalry, led by his elite Companions, and flexible, innovative formations and tactics. He advanced Greek style of combat, and was able to muster large bodies of men for long periods of time for his campaigns against Persia.\n\nThe Roman army was the world's first professional army. It had its origins in the citizen army of the Republic, which was staffed by citizens serving mandatory duty for Rome. The reforms of Marius around 100 BC turned the army into a professional structure, still largely filled by citizens, but citizens who served continuously for 20 years before being discharged.\n\nThe Romans were also noted for making use of auxiliary troops, non-Romans who served with the legions and filled roles that the traditional Roman military could not fill effectively, such as light skirmish troops and heavy cavalry. Later in the Empire, these auxiliary troops, along with foreign mercenaries, became the core of the Roman military. By the late Empire, tribes such as the Visigoths were bribed to serve as mercenaries.\n\nThe Roman navy was traditionally considered less important, although it remained vital for the transportation of supplies and troops, also during the great purge of pirates from the Mediterranean sea by Pompey the Great in the 1st century BC. Most of Rome's battles occurred on land, especially when the Empire was at its height and all the land around the Mediterranean was controlled by Rome.\n\nBut there were notable exceptions. The First Punic War, a pivotal war between Rome and Carthage in the 3rd century BC, was largely a naval conflict. And the naval Battle of Actium established the Roman empire under Augustus.\n\nThe Illyrian king Bardyllis turned part of south Illyria into a formidable local power in the 4th century BC. He managed to become king of the Dardanians and include other tribes under his rule. However their power was weakened by bitter rivalries and jealousy.The army was composed by peltasts with a variety of weapons.\nThe Thracians fought as peltasts using javelins and crescent or round wicker shields.Missile weapons were favored but close combat weaponry was carried by the Thracians as well. These close combat weapons varied from the dreaded Rhomphaia & Falx\nto spears and swords. Thracians shunned armor and greaves and fought as light as possible favoring mobility above all other traits and had excellent horsemen.\n\nThe Dacian tribes, located on modern-day Romania and Moldova were part of the greater Thracian family of peoples. They established a highly militarized society and, during the periods when the tribes were united under one king (82–44 BC, 86–106) posed a major threat to the Roman provinces of Lower Danube. Dacia was conquered and transformed into a Roman province in 106 after a long, hard war.\n\nTribal warfare appears to have been a regular feature of Celtic societies. While epic literature depicts this as more of a sport focused on raids and hunting rather than organised territorial conquest, the historical record is more of tribes using warfare to exert political control and harass rivals, for economic advantage, and in some instances to conquer territory.\n\nThe Celts were described by classical writers such as Strabo, Livy, Pausanias, and Florus as fighting like \"wild beasts\", and as hordes. Dionysius said that their \"manner of fighting, being in large measure that of wild beasts and frenzied, was an erratic procedure, quite lacking in military science. Thus, at one moment they would raise their swords aloft and smite after the manner of wild boars, throwing the whole weight of their bodies into the blow like hewers of wood or men digging with mattocks, and again they would deliver crosswise blows aimed at no target, as if they intended to cut to pieces the entire bodies of their adversaries, protective armour and all\". Such descriptions have been challenged by contemporary historians. Caesar himself describes the Gauls as forming phalanxes (likely similar to the medieval shieldwall) and testudos in battle, and using spears as their main weapon, as opposed to swords.\n\nHistorical records of the Germanic tribes in Germania east of the Rhine and west of the Danube do not begin until quite late in the ancient period, so only the period after 100 BC can be examined. What is clear is that the Germanic idea of warfare was quite different from the pitched battles fought by Rome and Greece. Instead the Germanic tribes focused on raids.\n\nThe purpose of these was generally not to gain territory, but rather to capture resources and secure prestige. These raids were conducted by irregular troops, often formed along family or village lines. Leaders of unusual personal magnetism could gather more soldiers for longer periods, but there was no systematic method of gathering and training men, so the death of a charismatic leader could mean the destruction of an army. Armies also often consisted of more than 50 percent noncombatants, as displaced people would travel with large groups of soldiers, the elderly, women, and children.\n\nThough often defeated by the Romans, the Germanic tribes were remembered in Roman records as fierce combatants, whose main downfall was that they failed to unite successfully into one fighting force, under one command. After the three Roman legions were ambushed and destroyed by an alliance of Germanic tribes headed by Arminius at the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest in 9 AD, the Roman Empire made no further concentrated attempts at conquering Germania beyond the Rhine. Prolonged warfare against the Romans accustomed the Germanic tribes to improved tactics such as the use of reserves, military discipline and centralised command. Germanic tribes would eventually overwhelm and conquer the ancient world, giving rise to modern Europe and medieval warfare. For an analysis of Germanic tactics versus the Roman empire see tactical problems in facing the Gauls and the Germanic tribes\n\nHorses and bows were very important in Japan, and were used in warfare from very early times, as shown in statues and artifacts found in tombs of early chieftains. Samurai eventually became very skilled in using the horse. Because their main weapon at this time was the bow and arrow, early samurai exploits were spoken of in Japanese war tales as the “Way of the Horse and Bow.” Horse and bow combined was a battlefield advantage to the early samurai. A bunch of arrows made of mainly wood with poison tipped points were worn on a warrior’s right side so he could quickly knock and release an arrow mid-gallop.\n\nAlthough they weren’t as important as the bow, swords of various sizes and types were also part of an early samurai's armory. They were mostly for close quarters engagements. Many different kinds of spears were also used. One, the naginata, was a curved blade fixed to the end of a pole several feet long. This was known as a 'woman’s spear' because samurai girls were taught to use it from an early age. A device called the kumade, which resembled a long-handled garden rake, was used to catch the clothing or helmet of enemy horsemen and unseat them.\n\nCommon samurai archers had armor made of lamellae pieces laced together with colorful cords. The lightweight armor allowed for greater freedom of movement, faster speed, and reduced fatigue for horse and rider.\n\nThe early Yamato period had seen a continual engagement in the Korean Peninsula until Japan finally withdrew, along with the remaining forces of the Baekje Kingdom. Several battles occurred in these periods as the Emperor's succession gained importance. By the Nara period, Honshū was completely under the control of the Yamato clan. Near the end of the Heian period, samurai became a powerful political force, thus starting the feudal period.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25351850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25351850", "title": "Archival research", "text": "Archival research\n\nArchival research is a type of research which involves seeking out and extracting evidence from archival records. These records may be held either in collecting institutions, such as libraries and museums, or in the custody of the organization (whether a government body, business, family, or other agency) that originally generated or accumulated them, or in that of a successor body (transferring, or in-house archives). Archival research can be contrasted with (1) secondary research (undertaken in a library or online), which involves identifying and consulting secondary sources relating to the topic of enquiry; and (2) with other types of primary research and empirical investigation such as fieldwork and experiment.\n\nThe oldest archives have been in existence for hundreds of years. For instance, the Vatican Secret Archives was started in the 17th century AD and contains state papers, papal account books, and papal correspondence dating back to the 8th century. Most archives that are still in existence do not claim collections that date back quite as far as the Vatican Archive. The Archives Nationales in France was founded in 1790 during the French Revolution and has holdings that date back to AD 625, and other European archives have a similar provenance. Archives in the modern world, while of more recent date, may also hold material going back several centuries, for example the United States National Archives and Records Administration was established originally in 1934. The NARA contains records and collections dating back to the founding of the United States in the 18th century. Among the collections of the NARA are the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States, and an original copy of the Magna Carta. The British National Archives (TNA) traces its history to the creation of the Public Record Office in 1838, while other state and national bodies were also formed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. \n\nUniversities are another venue for archival holdings and manuscript collections. Most universities have archival holdings that chronicle the business of the university. Some universities also have archives or manuscript collections that focus on one aspect or another of the culture of the state or country in which the university is located. Museums and local history centers may also be good sources for archival materials.\n\nThe reason for highlighting the breadth and depth of historical archives is to give some idea of the difficulties facing archival researchers. Some of these archives hold vast quantities of records. For example, the Vatican Secret Archive has upwards of 52 miles of archival shelving. An increasing number of archives are now accepting digital transfers, which can also present challenges for display and access.\n\nArchival research lies at the heart of most academic and other forms of original historical research; but it is frequently also undertaken (in conjunction with parallel research methodologies) in other disciplines within the humanities and social sciences, including literary studies, rhetoric, archaeology, sociology, human geography, anthropology, psychology, and organizational studies. It may also be important in other non-academic types of enquiry, such as the tracing of birth families by adoptees, and criminal investigations. Data held by archival institutions is also of use in scientific research and in establishing civil rights.\n\nIn addition to discipline, the kind of research methodology used in archival research can vary depending on its organization and its materials. For example, in an archives that has a large number of materials still unprocessed, a researcher may find consulting directly with archive staff who have a clear understanding of collections and their organization to be useful as they can be a source of information regarding unprocessed materials or of related materials in other archives and repositories. When an archive is not entirely oriented towards one or relevant to a single discipline, researchers, for example genealogists, may rely upon formal or informal networks to support research by sharing information about specific archives' organization and collections with each other.\n\nArchival research is generally more complex and time-consuming than secondary research, presenting challenges in identifying, locating and interpreting relevant documents. Although archives share similar features and characteristics they can also vary in significant ways. While publicly funded archives may have mandates that require them to be as accessible as possible other kinds, such as corporate, religious, or private archives, will have varying degrees of access and discoverability. Some materials may be restricted in other ways, such as on those containing sensitive or classified information, unpublished works, or imposed by agreements with the donor of materials. Furthermore, archival records are often unique, and the researcher must be prepared to travel to reach them. Even when materials are available in digital formats there may be restrictions on them that prohibit them from being accessed off-site.\n\nPrior to online search, union catalogs were an important tool for finding materials in libraries and archives. In the United States, the National Union Catalog and the National Union Catalog of Manuscript Collections have been used by researchers to locate archives although much of its information has since been migrated to online systems. \n\nAn increasing number of archival institutions can be found via an online search. In addition, portals such as Europeana, the Digital Public Library of America and the National Library of Australia's Trove provide links to member institutions. \n\nIn the UK, JISC hosts the ArchivesHub, while the OCLC's ArchiveGrid provides an international portal for mostly library based institutions, which use MARC as a cataloguing tool for their holdings. The Association of Canadian Archivists (ACA) has partnered with the software company Artefactual to create ArchivesCanada, while the Australian Society of Archivists have used the same software for their Directory of Archives in Australia. Many other online search tools have been made available to facilitate search and discovery\n\nIf an archives cannot be found through online search or a publicly listed collection a researcher may have to track down its existence through other means, such as following other researcher's citations and references. This is particularly true for materials held by corporations or other organizations that may not employ an archivist and thus be unaware of the extent or contents of their materials. \n\nIn very restricted archives, access may be restricted only to individuals with certain credentials or affiliations with institutions like universities and then only to those of a certain level. Those lacking the necessary credentials may need to request letters of introduction from an individual or institution to provide to the archive. \n\nArchives usually contain unique materials and their organization may also be entirely unique or idiosyncratic to the institution or organization that maintains them. This is one important distinction with libraries where material is organized according to standardized classification systems. Traditionally, archives have followed the principle of \"respect des fonds\" in which the provenance and original order is maintained although some rearrangement, physical or intellectual, may be done by the archivist to facilitate its use. \n\nFinding aids are a common reference tool created by archivists for locating materials. They come in a variety of forms, such as registers, card catalogs, or inventories. Many finding aids to archival documents are now hosted online as web pages or uploaded as documents, such as at the Library of Congress' Rare Book & Special Collections. The level of detail in finding aids can vary from granular item-level descriptions to coarse collection-level descriptions. If an archive has a large backlog of unprocessed materials, there may not be any kind of finding aid at all. From around 2005, an ideology known as \"More Product, Less Process\", or MPLP, has been adopted by many archives seeking to reduce processing time or alleviate backlogs to provide access to materials sooner, the results of which may be minimally described finding aids.\n\nAlthough most archive repositories welcome researchers, and have professional staff tasked with assisting them, the large quantity of records means that finding aids may be of only limited usefulness: the researcher will need to hunt through large quantities of documents in search of material relevant to his or her particular enquiry. Some records may be closed to public access for reasons of confidentiality; and others may be written in archaic handwriting, in ancient or foreign languages, or in technical terminology. Archival documents were generally created for immediate practical or administrative purposes, not for the benefit of future researchers, and additional contextual research may be necessary to make sense of them. Many of these challenges are exacerbated when the records are still in the custody of the generating body or in private hands, where owners or custodians may be unwilling to provide access to external enquirers, and where finding aids may be even more rudimentary or non-existent.\n\nArchival materials are usually held in closed stacks and non-circulating. Users request to see specific materials from the archives and may only consult them on-site. After locating the relevant record location using a finding aid or other discovery tool a user may then have to submit the request to the archives, such as using a request form. If an archives has part of its holdings located in a separate building or facility, it make take days or weeks to retrieve materials, requiring a user to submit their requests in advance of an on-site consultation.\n\nA reading room is a space, usually within or near the archive, where users can consult archival materials under staff supervision. The unique, fragile, or sensitive nature of some materials sometimes requires the certain kinds of restrictions on their use, handling, and/or duplication. Many archives restrict what kinds of items can be brought into a reading room from outside, such as pencils, notepads, bags, and even clothing, to guard against theft or risk of damage to materials. Further restrictions may be placed on the number of materials that can be consulted at any given time, such as limiting a user to one box at a time and requiring all materials to be laid flat and visible at all times. Some archives provide basic supplies including scrap paper and pencils or foam wedges for supporting unusually large materials. Duplication services may be available at the archive although the policies, costs, and time required can vary. Increasingly, archives also allow users to use their own devices, such as handheld cameras, cell phones, and even scanners, to duplicate materials.\n\nSome materials may contain information that concerns the privacy and confidentiality of living individuals, such as medical and student records, and demand special care. Materials that might contain personally identifiable information, such as social security numbers or names, must be handled appropriately, and an archive might provide redacted copies of materials or deny access to materials entirely due to privacy concerns.\n\nMore and more archival materials are being digitized or are born-digital enabling them to be accessed off-site through the internet or other networked services. Archives that have digital materials accessible to the public may make their holdings discoverable to internet search engines by sharing or exposing their electronic catalogs and/or metadata, using standards like the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH). Some institutions have online portals where users can freely access digital materials that have been made available by the archive such as the Archives of the New York Public Library or the Smithsonian Institution Archives. Governments and their related institutions may use these \"electronic\", or \"virtual\", reading rooms to upload documents and materials that have been requested by the public such as through FOIA requests or in accordance with records disclosure policies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36793843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36793843", "title": "Battle of Määritsa", "text": "Battle of Määritsa\n\nBattle of Määritsa (,also known as Battle of Osula, ) was a battle held in Osula village, at that time in Võru County, Estonian SSR, Soviet Union. It began on the night of 31 March 1946, involving members of the Forest Brothers and Soviet occupation forces. Seven Estonian fighters based at the Hindrik farmhouse were besieged by up to 300 Soviet soldiers. The battle lasted about seven hours before the farmhouse caught fire and the Soviets demanded that the rebels surrender. Only two fighters managed to escape alive from the farmhouse, but were subsequently killed in battle with the besiegers.\n"}
{"id": "3577667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3577667", "title": "Battle of the Paracel Islands", "text": "Battle of the Paracel Islands\n\nThe Battle of the Paracel Islands was a military engagement between the naval forces of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam) in the Paracel Islands on January 19, 1974. The battle was an attempt by the South Vietnamese Navy to expel the Chinese Navy from the vicinity.\n\nAs a result of the battle, the PRC established \"de facto\" control over the Paracels.\n\nThe Paracel Islands, called Xisha Islands (; \"Xīshā Qúndǎo\") in Chinese and Hoang Sa Islands (\"Quần Đảo Hoàng Sa\") in Vietnamese, lie in the South China Sea approximately equidistant from the coastlines of the PRC and Vietnam (200 nautical miles). With no native population, the archipelago’s ownership has been in dispute since the early 20th century.\n\nChina first asserted sovereignty in the modern sense to the South China Sea’s islands when it formally objected to France’s efforts to incorporate them into French Indochina during the Sino-French War (1884–1885). Initially, France recognized Qing China's sovereignty over the Paracel and Spratly archipelagos, in exchange for Chinese recognition of Vietnam as a French territory. Chinese maps since then have consistently shown China’s claims, first as a solid and then as a dashed line. In 1932, one year after the Japanese Empire invaded northeast China, France formally claimed both the Paracel and Spratly Islands; China and Japan both protested. In 1933, France bolstered their claim and seized the Paracels and Spratlys, announced their annexation, formally included them in French Indochina. They built several weather stations on them, but they did not disturb the numerous Chinese fishermen found there. In 1938 Japan took the islands from France, garrisoned them, and built a submarine base at Itu Aba (now Taiping / 太平) Island. In 1941, the Japanese Empire made the Paracel and Spratly Islands part of Taiwan, then under its rule.\n\nIn 1945, in accordance with the Cairo and Potsdam Declarations and with American help, the armed forces of the Republic of China government at Nanjing accepted the surrender of the Japanese garrisons in Taiwan, including the Paracel and Spratly Islands. Nanjing then declared both archipelagoes to be part of Guangdong Province. In 1946 it established garrisons on both Woody (now Yongxing / 永兴) Island in the Paracels and Taiping Island in the Spratlys. France promptly protested. The French tried but failed to dislodge Chinese nationalist troops from Yongxing Island (the only habitable island in the Paracels), but were able to establish a small camp on Pattle (now Shanhu / 珊瑚) Island in the southwestern part of the archipelago.\n\nIn 1950, after the Chinese nationalists were driven from Hainan by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), they withdrew their garrisons in both the Paracels and Spratlys to Taiwan. In 1954 France ceased to be a factor when it accepted the independence of both South and North Vietnam and withdrew from Indochina.\n\nIn 1956 North Vietnam formally accepted that the Paracel and Spratly islands were historically Chinese. About the same time, the PLA reestablished a Chinese garrison on Yongxing Island in the Paracels, while the Republic of China (Taipei) stationed troops on Taiping Island in the Spratlys. That same year, however, South Vietnam reopened the abandoned French camp on Shanhu Island and announced it had annexed the Paracel archipelago as well as the Spratlys. To focus on its war with the North, South Vietnam by 1966 had reduced its presence on the Paracels to only a single weather observation garrison on Shanhu Island. The PLA made no attempt to remove this force.\n\nOn January 16, 1974, six South Vietnamese Army officers and an American observer on the frigate \"Lý Thường Kiệt\" (HQ-16) were sent to the Paracels on an inspection tour. They discovered two Chinese “armored fishing trawlers” laying off Drummond Island to support a detachment of PLA troops who had occupied the island. Chinese soldiers were also observed around a bunker on nearby Duncan Island, with a landing ship moored on the beach and two additional Kronstadt-class submarine chasers in the vicinity. This was promptly reported to Saigon, and several naval vessels were sent to confront the Chinese ships in the area. The South Vietnamese Navy frigate signaled the Chinese squadron to withdraw, and in return received the same demand. The rival forces shadowed each other overnight, but did not engage.\n\nOn January 17, about 30 South Vietnamese commandos waded ashore unopposed on Robert Island and removed the Chinese flag they found flying. Later, both sides received reinforcements. The frigate \"Trần Khánh Dư\" (HQ-4) joined the \"Lý Thường Kiệt\" (HQ-16), while two PLA Navy minesweepers (#274 and #271) joined the Chinese.\n\nOn January 18, the frigate \"Trần Bình Trọng\" (HQ-5) arrived carrying the commander of the South Vietnamese fleet, Colonel Hà Văn Ngạc. The corvette \"Nhật Tảo\" (HQ-10) also reached the islands, moving cautiously because it had only one functioning engine at the time.\n\nThese four warships from the South Vietnam Navy would participate in the battle: the frigates, , , and , and the corvette . A platoon of South Vietnamese naval commandos, an underwater demolition team, and a regular ARVN platoon were by now stationed on the islands.\n\nChina also had four warships present: the PLA Navy minesweepers #271, #274, #389 and #396. These were old and small warships with an average length of and width of , and they had not been well-maintained. However, they were reinforced by two Type 037 submarine chasers (#281 and #282) by the end of the battle. In addition, two PLA marine battalions and an unknown number of irregular militia had been landed on the islands.\n\nAlthough four ships were engaged on each side, the total displacements and weapons of the South Vietnamese ships were superior. The supporting and reinforcement forces of the PLA Navy did not take part in the battle.\n\nIn the early morning of January 19, 1974, South Vietnamese soldiers from \"Trần Bình Trọng\" landed on Duncan Island and came under fire from Chinese troops. Three South Vietnamese soldiers were killed and more were wounded. Finding themselves outnumbered, the South Vietnamese ground forces withdrew by landing craft, but their small fleet drew close to the Chinese warships in a tense standoff.\n\nAt 10:24 a.m., the South Vietnamese warships \"Lý Thường Kiệt\" and \"Nhật Tảo\" opened fire on the Chinese warships. \"Trần Bình Trọng\" and \"Trần Khánh Dư\" then joined in. The sea battle lasted about 40 minutes, with vessels on both sides taking damage. The smaller Chinese warships managed to maneuver into the blind spots of the main cannons on the South Vietnamese warships and damaged all four South Vietnamese ships, especially \"Nhật Tảo\", which could not retreat because her last working engine was disabled. The crew was ordered to abandon ship, but her captain, Lieutenant Commander Ngụy Văn Thà, remained on board and went down with his ship. \"Lý Thường Kiệt\", severely damaged by friendly fire from \"Trần Bình Trọng\", was forced to retreat westwards. \"Trần Khánh Dư\" and \"Trần Bình Trọng\" soon joined in the retreat.\n\nThe next day, Chinese aircraft from Hainan bombed the three islands, and an amphibious landing was made. The outnumbered South Vietnamese marine garrison on the islands was forced to surrender, and the damaged navy ships retreated to Đà Nẵng.\n\nDuring the battle, the South Vietnamese fleet detected two more Chinese warships rushing to the area. China later acknowledged these were the Hainan-class submarine chasers #281 and #282. Despite South Vietnamese reports that at least one of their ships had been struck by a missile, the Chinese insisted what the South Vietnamese saw were rocket-propelled grenades fired by the crew of #389 and that no missile-capable ships were present, and the Chinese ships closed in because they had no missiles. The South Vietnamese fleet also received warnings that U.S. Navy radar had detected additional Chinese guided missile frigates and aircraft on their way from Hainan.\n\nSouth Vietnam requested assistance from the U.S. Seventh Fleet, but the request was denied.\n\nFollowing the battle, China gained control over all of the Paracel Islands. South Vietnam protested to the United Nations, but China, having veto power on the UN Security Council, blocked any efforts to bring it up. The remote islands had little value militarily, but diplomatically the projection of power was beneficial to China.\n\nThe South Vietnamese reported that the warship \"Nhật Tảo\" was sunk and \"Lý Thường Kiệt\" heavily damaged, while \"Trần Khánh Dư\" and \"Trần Bình Trọng\" were both slightly damaged. 53 South Vietnamese soldiers, including Captain Ngụy Văn Thà of \"Nhật Tảo\", were killed, and 16 were wounded. On January 20, 1974, the Dutch tanker, \"Kopionella\", found and rescued 23 survivors of the sunken \"Nhật Tảo\". On January 29, 1974, South Vietnamese fishermen found 15 South Vietnamese soldiers near Mũi Yến (Qui Nhơn) who had fought on Quang Hòa island and escaped in lifeboats.\n\nAfter their successful amphibious assault on January 20, the Chinese held 48 prisoners, including an American advisor. They were later released in Hong Kong through the Red Cross.\n\nThe Chinese claimed that even though its ships had all been hit numerous times, none of them had been sunk. Warships #271 and #396 suffered speed-reducing damage to their engines, but both returned to port safely and were repaired. Warship #274 was damaged more extensively and had to stop at Yongxing Island for emergency repairs. It returned to Hainan under its own power the next day. Warship #389 was damaged the most by an engine room explosion. Its captain managed to run his ship aground and put out the fire with the help of the minesweepers. It was then towed back to base. Eighteen Chinese sailors were killed and 67 were wounded in the battle.\n\nA potential diplomatic crisis was averted when China released the American prisoner taken during the battle. Gerald Emil Kosh, 27, a former U.S. Army captain, was captured with the South Vietnamese on Pattle Island. He was described as a “regional liaison officer” for the American embassy in Saigon on assignment with the South Vietnamese Navy. China released him from custody on January 31 without comment.\n\nThe leaders of North Vietnam gave a glimpse of their worsening relationship with China by conspicuously not congratulating their ally. An official communique issued by the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam mentioned only its desire for a peaceful and negotiated resolution for any local territorial dispute. In the wake of the battle, North Vietnamese Deputy Foreign Minister Nguyễn Cơ Thạch told the Hungarian ambassador to Hanoi that \"there are many documents and data about that the islands in question are Vietnamese.\" Other North Vietnamese cadres told the Hungarian diplomats that in their view, the conflict between China and the Saigon regime was but a temporary one. However, they later said the issue would be a problem of the entire Vietnamese nation.\n\nAfter the reunification of Vietnam in April 1975, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam publicly renewed its claim to the Paracels, and the dispute continues to this day. Hanoi has praised the South Vietnamese forces that took part in the battle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2386275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2386275", "title": "Buddhism and evolution", "text": "Buddhism and evolution\n\nEvolution is not explicitly mentioned in the Tipitaka. As no major principles of Buddhism contradict it, many Buddhists tacitly accept the theory of evolution. Questions about the eternity or infinity of the universe at large are counted among the 14 unanswerable questions which the Buddha maintained were counterproductive areas of speculation. As such, many Buddhists do not think about these kinds of questions as meaningful for the Buddhist goal of relieving oneself and others from suffering.\n\nIn his book titled, \"The Universe in a Single Atom: The Convergence of Science And Spirituality\" the Dalai Lama dismisses the element of randomness in the theory of evolution based on natural selection:\nDonald S. Lopez, a renowned Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan studies explains in his book \"Buddhism and Science: a Guide for the Perplexed\" that in Buddhism, the process of Rebirth (into any of a large number of states of being including a human, any kind of animal and several types of supernatural being) is conditioned by karma (action of consciousness), which explains Dalai Lama's view.\n\nBuddhists believe the beginning of this world and of life is inconceivable since they have neither beginning nor end, that the world was not created once upon a time, but that the world is constantly being created millions of times every second and that it will always continue to do so.\n\nAlbert Low, a Zen master and author of \"The Origin of Human Nature: A Zen Buddhist Looks at Evolution\", (2008) opposes neo-Darwinism and the selfish gene theory as he claims they are materialistic. He also opposes creationism for being dogmatic and instead advocates spiritual evolution. The Buddhist writer Anagarika Dharmapalaeven once stated that \"the theory of evolution was one of the ancient teachings of the Buddha.\" However, it has long been taught that indifference to certain matters regarding life and its origins should be practiced. \n\nThis Parable of the arrow has often been used to illustrate the Buddha's teachings that \"practitioners who concern themselves with the origins of the universe and other topics are missing the point of their religious practice.\"\n\nStephen T. Asma has noted that the Buddha himself largely avoided answering questions about the origins of the universe.\n\nThe Buddha argued that there is no apparent rational necessity for the existence of a creator god because everything ultimately is created by mind. Belief in a creator is not necessarily addressed by a religion based on phenomenology, and Buddhism is generally accepting of modern scientific theories about the formation of the universe. This can be argued either from the standpoint that it simply does not matter, or from an interpretation of the Agañña Sutta favoring the notion that it describes the basic concept of evolution.\n\nIn the Aggañña Sutta, the 27th Sutta of the Digha Nikaya collection that can be found in the Pali Canon, the Buddha gives a highly detailed answer to this question of evolution. The Buddha, speaking to the monk Vasettha, a former Brahmin, states the following:\n\nBecause the Buddha seems to present a model of cosmology wherein the universe expands and contracts over extremely long periods of time, this description has been found by some to be consistent with the expanding universe model and the idea of Big Bang.\n\nAccording to the Aggañña Sutta, it is clear that animals must have been present before humans could complete their completed their \"devolution\".\n\nThe concept of spiritual evolution has been taught in Buddhism. William Sturgis Bigelow, a physician and Buddhist, attempted to merge biology with spirituality; he accepted the existence of both material and spiritual realms. Many of his ideas were discussed in his book \"Buddhism and Immortality\" (1908). Bigelow used the concept of natural selection as a mechanism for evolution. According to Bigelow spiritual evolution is when an individual emerges from \"unconditioned consciousness\" and \"moves up the scale of evolution guided by natural selection\". Next the individual moves to a level of celestial experience, and finally is able to \"return to the unconditioned consciousness from which all things emerge.\" Bigelow accepted both material and spiritual evolution; he believed Buddhism and science were compatible.\n\n"}
{"id": "5832606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5832606", "title": "Dariusz Baliszewski", "text": "Dariusz Baliszewski\n\nDariusz Baliszewski is a Polish historian, journalist and writer. Author of television show \"Rewizja nadzwyczajna\", he is a common author of historical articles to one of the biggest Polish magazines, \"Wprost\". He specializes in Polish 20th century history, and is known for several controversial hypotheses, like those related to the death of general Władysław Sikorski.\n\nIn 1999, for his television creativity and professionalism in work, president Aleksander Kwaśniewski awarded him: <br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8200102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8200102", "title": "David Benjamin Rees", "text": "David Benjamin Rees\n\nDavid Benjamin Rees (born Llanddewi Brefi), widely known as \"Dr D. Ben Rees\", is a Welsh and English-language publisher, author, lecturer and minister in the Presbyterian Church of Wales since 1962 and leader of the Welsh community in Liverpool. He leads one of Liverpool's five remaining Welsh chapels. His small publishing house, Modern Welsh Publications Ltd, was established in 1963 and from 1963 to 1968 it operated from Abercynon in the Cynon Valley of South Wales. Since 1968 it has operated from Allerton, Liverpool and is the only Welsh language publishing house still operating in the city of Liverpool.\n\nIn a forty-year span as a writer Rees has worked largely in four areas:\n\nThe biography \"Mahatma Gandhi: Pensaer yr India\" (\"Mahatma Gandhi: The Architect of India\") was published in 1970. In a review in the monthly magazine \"Barn\" the Reverend Alwyn Roberts praised the title for bringing the contribution of Gandhi to a new generation of readers. This volume was the inspiration for a series of three books on Welsh pacifists. Each volume included a portrayal of the peace initiatives of well-known peace workers by academics and authors under the titles \"Herio'r Byd\" (1980), \"Dal i Herio'r Byd\" (1983) and \"Dal Ati i Herio'r Byd\" (1988), all edited by D. Ben Rees.\n\nWORKS\n\nArolwg 1965 (Editor) (1965)\nLlyfr Gwasanaeth (Ieuenctid) (Editor) (1967)\nGwaith yr Eglwys (1967)\nMahatma Gandi : Pensaer yr India (1969)\nArolwg 1970 (Editor) (1970)\nArolwg (Editor) (1971)\nPymtheg o Wyr Llen yr Ugeinfed Ganrif (1972)\nDyrnaid o Awduron Cyfoes (Editor) (1974)\nEnwogion Pedair Canrif (1400-1800) (1975)\nGweddiau'r Cristion (1976)\nCymry Adnabyddus 1951-1972 (1978)\nGweddiau'r Cristion (1978)\nPregethwr y Bobl: Bywyd a Gwaith Dr Owen Thomas (1979)\nWales and its Culture (1980)\nHerio'r Byd (Editor) (1980)\nCerddi eisteddfodol y diweddar Gwilym Jones (Editor) (1981)\nPreparation for Crisis (1981)\nCyfaredd Capel Bethesda, Cemaes, Mon (1878-1981) (Editor) (1981)\nHaneswyr yr Hen Gorff (1981)\nDal I Herio'r Byd (Editor) (1983)\nGweddiau'r Cristion (1983)\nOriel o Heddychwyr Mawr y Byd (1983)\nPwy yw Pwy yng Nghymru - Who's Who in Wales, Volume 3 (1983)\nThe Liverpool Welsh and their Religion: two centuries of Welsh Calvinistic Methodism/Cymry Lerpwl a'u crefydd: dwy ganrif o Fethodistiaeth Galfinaidd Gymreig - R. Merfyn Jones and D. Ben Rees (Edited by D. Ben Rees) (1984)\nHanes Plwyf Llanddewi Brefi (1984)\nGwasanaethau'r Cristion (1987)\nDeuddeg Diwygiwr Protestannaidd (Editor) (1988)\nDal Ati I Herio'r Byd (Editor) (1989)\nMay we wish you a goodnight in Hospital / Gordon A. Catherall and D. Ben Rees (1990)\nA Liverpool Welsh Preacher: Dr. Owen Thomas (1990)\nPrayers for Peace (1992)\nDathlu Grawnsypiau Canaan a detholiad (1995)\nGraces for all occasions (1995)\nCymry Lerpwl a'r Cyffiniau Cyfrol 1 (1997)\nThe Welsh of Merseyside, Volume 1 (1997)\nLocal and Parliamentary Politics of Liverpool from 1800 to 1911 (1999)\nThe Hague Declaration on Peace and Justice in the Twenty First Century, Bilingual (Editor) (2000)\nCymry Lerpwl a'r Cyffiniau yn yr Ugeinfed Ganrif, Cyfrol 2 (2001)\nThe Welsh of Merseyside in the Twentieth Century, Volume 2 (2001)\nVehicles of Grace and Hope (2002)\nFfydd a Gwreiddiau John Saunders Lewis (Editor) (2002)\nThe Polymath: Reverend William Rees ('Gwilym Hiraethog' 1802-1883 of Liverpool) (2002)\nGweddiau am Gymru a'r Byd / Prayers for Wales and the World (2002)\nY Polymathiad o Gymro, Parchedig William Rees, Lerpwl (Gwilym Hiraethog 1802-1883) (2002)\nCwmni Deg Dawnus (2003)\nThe Call and Contribution of Dr Robert Arthur Hughes OBE, FRCA (1910-1996) and some of his predecessors in north East India Vol 1 (Editor) (2004)\nMr Evan Roberts Y Diwygiwr yn Sir Fon 1905 / Mr Evan Roberts, The revivalist in Anglesey (2005)\nAlffa ac Omega: tystiolaeth y Presbyteriaid Cymraeg yn Laird Street, Penbedw (1906-2006), a bilingual volume (2006)\nThe Life and work of Henry Richard (2007)\nAlun Owen: A Liverpool Welsh playwright (Editor) (2008)\nCodi Stem a Hwyl yn Lerpwl (2008)\nLabour of Love in Liverpool (2008)\nArloeswyr Methodistiaeth Galfinaidd yn Mon (2006)\nThe Pioneers of Methodism in Anglesey (2006)\nJohn Elias a'i Gyd Fethodistiaid Calfinaidd (1791-1841) (2007)\nJohn Elias and the Calvinistic Methodists (1791-1841) (2007)\nOes Aur Crefydd ym Mon 1841-1885 / A golden Age of Religion in Anglesey 1841-1885 (2008)\nDr John Williams, Brynsiencyn a'i Ddoniau (1853-1921) / Dr John Williams, Brynsiencyn and his Talents (1853-1921) (2009)\nJohn Calvin a'i Ddisgyblion Calfinaidd Cymraeg / John Calvin and his Welsh Disciples (2009)\nThe sage of a revival: early Welsh Pentecostal Methodism (2010)\nY Gwron o Genefa (2012)\nA portrait of Battling Bessie (2011)\nCysegr Sancteiddiolaf Capel Westminster Road, Ellesmere Port (1907-2007) / The Welsh missionary witness in Ellesmere Port (1907-2007) (2012)\nDi-Ben-Draw: Hunangofiant (2015)\nDilyn Ffordd Tangnefedd: Canmlwyddiant Cymdeithas y Cymod 1914-2014) (Editor) (2015)\nCofiant James Griffiths: Arwr Glew y Werin (2015)\nY Cenhadwr Cyntaf o Blith Cymry Lerpwl: Josiah Hughes (1804-1840) / Josiah Hughes (1804-1840): The Reluctant Welsh Calvinistic Methodist Missionary of Malacca (2016)\nThe Healer of Shillong: Reverend Dr Hugh Gordon Roberts and the Welsh Mission Hospital (2016)\nCofiant Cledwyn Hughes: Un o Wyr mawr Mon a Chymru (2017)\nCanmlwyddiant y Gadair Ddu, Gwyl Hedd Wyn / Black Chair Centenary (2017)\nAn Unlimited Life: An Autobiography (2018)\n\nThe author has written a number of books in English and Welsh on writers.\n\n1) \"Wales: Culture Heritage\" (1982) is a popular introduction to the Welsh press and the eisteddfodic tradition, and seeks to define the contents of Welsh culture.\n\n2) \"Samuel Roberts\" (1987), a biography of the prolific Victorian author Samuel Roberts of Llanbrynmair. The book was published in English by the University of Wales Press as part of the Writers of Wales series, under the editorship of Dr Meic Stephens and Dr R. Brinley Jones.\n\n3) 12 further volumes between 1975 and 2006, addressing Welsh Nonconformity, Victorian Studies and the history of the Liverpool Welsh community.\n-- History of the Liverpool Welsh Community \nRees is acknowledged as the leading authority on the Liverpool Welsh History since 1984 when he and Professor R.Merfyn Jones co-authored The Liverpool Welsh and their Religion.His latest book was based on Ellesmere Port Welsh community ( 2012).\n\nRees has become an acknowledged scholar on John Calvin (1509-1564) and of Calvinism since the publication of four books,\nthree in the Welsh Language,on John Calvin and his Welsh Disciples in the period 2008 and 2012. He delivered the prestigious\nDavies Lecture on John Calvin and the Connexion at the General Assembly of his denomination in Lampeter in 2008. This has been subsequently published as Y Gwron o Genefa: John Calfin a'i ddylanwad (Caernarfon,2012).\n"}
{"id": "46378177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46378177", "title": "David Hardiman", "text": "David Hardiman\n\nDavid Hardiman is a historian of modern India and a founding member of the subaltern studies group. Born in Rawalpindi in Pakistan, Hardiman was brought up in England where he graduated from the London School of Economics in 1970 and received his D.Phil. in South Asian History from the University of Sussex in 1975. He is presently a professor in the Department of History at the University of Warwick.\n\n"}
{"id": "8885931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8885931", "title": "Galbert of Bruges", "text": "Galbert of Bruges\n\nGalbert of Bruges (Galbertus notarius Brugensis in Latin) was a Flemish cleric and chronicler. A resident of Bruges and a functionary in the administration of the count of Flanders, he is known for his day-by-day Latin account \"De multro, traditione et occisione gloriosi Karoli comitis Flandriarum\" of the events surrounding the murder of Count Charles the Good, in 1127 and its aftermath up through the accession of Thierry of Alsace in summer 1128.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57696844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57696844", "title": "George Stephen Goodspeed", "text": "George Stephen Goodspeed\n\nGeorge Stephen Goodspeed (1860 - 1905) was an American historian and author.\n\nHe specialized in Assyriology and Sumerian history\n\nHe was born on 14 January 1860 in Janusville, Wisconsin.\n\nHis son Thomas Harper Goodspeed went on to become a botanist.\n\nHe died in 1905.\n\nHe graduated from Brown University in 1880.\n\nHe briefly taught at the University of Chicago. He was a contemporary of James Henry Breasted. He was a regular contributor to the \"Biblical World\" magazine.\n\nHe is notable for being the first person to introduce the term Crescent of Civilization which is now widely used to describe Mesopotamia,\n\nHis notable books are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18810205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18810205", "title": "Gideon Lincecum", "text": "Gideon Lincecum\n\nGideon Lincecum (22 April 1793 – 28 November 1874) was an American pioneer, historian, physician, philosopher, and naturalist. Lincecum is known for his exploration and settlement of what are now the U.S. states of Alabama, Mississippi and Texas, which was then beyond the western borders of the Thirteen Colonies. Lincecum had good relations with Native Americans as he explored the wilderness in the American Deep South. He was son of Hezekiah and Sally (Hickman) Lincecum, and was born in Warren County, Georgia, on April 22, 1793. Lincecum was self-educated. He spent his boyhood principally in the company of Muskogees. After successive moves, he and his wife, the former Sarah Bryan, moved in 1818 with his parents and siblings to the Tombigbee River, above the site of present Columbus, Mississippi.\n\nWhile living among the Choctaw in Mississippi, he recorded their legends and traditions in the Choctaw language. After moving to Texas, he translated it to English as the \"Chahta Tradition\".\n\nHe sought a new frontier in 1868 and, at the age of seventy-six, with a widowed daughter and her seven children, joined a Confederate colony in Tuxpan, Veracruz, Mexico. He died on November 28, 1874 after a long illness at his Long Point, Texas, home.\n\nLincecum had contact with Chickasaw, Creek (Muscogee), and Choctaw Native Americans before the Indian Removals of the 1830s began. He learned how to speak and write their languages, learned about their medicine, and recorded their history. Lincecum frequently visited an elderly Choctaw man named \"Chahta Immataha\", who gave him a detailed account of Choctaw oral history. Historian Patricia Galloway notes that Lincecum's \"narrative is not reliable.\"\n\nLincecum was a self-taught naturalist. Lincecum would spend \"countless hours observing birds, insects, weather, rocks, and plants. He regularly corresponded with like-minded individuals, including Charles Darwin on two occasions. He published numerous articles in scholarly scientific journals and came to be recognized as a thorough and respectable researcher, in spite of his lack of formal education.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50325425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50325425", "title": "Giovanni Pietro Francesco Agius de Soldanis", "text": "Giovanni Pietro Francesco Agius de Soldanis\n\nCanon Giovanni Pietro Francesco Agius de Soldanis (, 30 October 1712 – 30 January 1770), often called de Soldanis (), was a Maltese linguist, historian and cleric from the island of Gozo. He wrote the first lexicon and systematic grammar of the Maltese language, and he was the first librarian of the \"Bibliotheca Publica\", the precursor of the National Library of Malta.\n\nDe Soldanis was born on 30 October 1712 in Rabat, Gozo, to Andrea Hagius and Valenzia Sultana. He was baptised in the Parish Church of St. George the following day. He was born \"Giovanni Pietro Francesco Agius\", but he later added \"de Soldanis\" to his name, a Latinized version of his mother's surname Sultana, and he is now commonly known by that name.\nDe Soldanis was privately educated by a Capuchin friar at the convent of Our Lady of Graces. He later studied literature, philosophy, theology and law at the Jesuit college in Valletta. De Soldanis was appointed canon of the Gozo Matrice by Bishop Paul Alphéran de Bussan in 1729, and he was ordained priest six years later in 1735.\n\nDe Soldanis was interested in history, culture, archaeology and the Maltese language. He had an extensive library and a museum in his house, which contained various old coins and medals, inscriptions, pottery and statues. He wrote several manuscripts in a number of languages, including Maltese, Italian and French. He published some of his works in Rome, Naples, Venice and Avignon, but he never published anything in Malta since there was no printing press at the time.\n\nIn 1753, he was appointed \"quaresimalista\" of Gozo, the official preacher of Advent and Lenten sermons at the Matrice, which was considered to be a position of privilege. Due to the influence of the bishop's brother, De Soldanis traveled throughout Italy and France in the 1750s. At this point, he studied at the University of Padua and graduated as a lawyer. He also became a member of the \"\" in Florence, the \"Accademia Botanica\" of Cortona, and the \"Accademia di Buongusto\" and the \"Accademia degli Erranti\" in Palermo.\n\nIn 1758, de Soldanis returned to Gozo, but he moved to mainland Malta in 1763, when the knight Louis Guérin de Tencin chose him as the first librarian of the \"Bibliotheca Publica\" in Valletta, the precursor of the National Library of Malta.\n\nDe Soldanis' health began to deteriorate in 1768. He died on 30 January 1770, and he was buried at the Collegiate Parish Church of St Paul's Shipwreck in Valletta.\n\nThroughout his life, De Soldanis wrote a number of works about the Maltese language, which was his main area of interest. He wrote the first grammar of the Maltese language in 1750, after he was informed that the Portuguese knight Almeida wanted such a grammar to be published. The book was entitled \"Della Lingua Punica presentemente usata da Maltesi, ovvero Nuovi Documenti li quali possono servire di lume all'antica Lingua Etrusca, stesi in due dissertazioni\", and it was published in Rome. In this work, de Soldanis hypothesizes that Maltese originates from the Punic language descending from the Etruscan language. This hypothesis was later disproven, and Maltese is now regarded as a Semitic language descended from Siculo-Arabic.\n\nFrom 1750 to 1762, de Soldanis worked on a second grammar entitled \"Nuova Scuola della Lingua Punica\", but it was never published. He also wrote a four-volume Maltese-Latin-Italian dictionary entitled \"Damma tal-Kliem Kartaginis mscerred fel fomm tal Maltin u Ghaucin\" between 1750 and 1767. Although it also remained unpublished, this is regarded as his work about the Maltese language, since it presents a unique picture of mid-18th century Maltese.\n\nApart from studies on the Maltese language, de Soldanis also wrote works relating to history, archaeology and other topics related to Malta and Gozo. His magnum opus is \"Il Gozo Antico-Moderno e Sacro-Profano\", a two-volume manuscript dealing with the history of Gozo completed in 1746. The manuscript served as the basis for further studies on Gozo, but it remained unpublished until 1936, when the Government Press published a translation in Maltese by Giuseppe Farrugia Gioioso. A translation in English by Anthony Mercieca was published in 1999.\n\nIn 1751, de Soldanis published \"Mustafà Bassà di Rodi schiavo in Malta, o sia la di lui congiura all'occupazione di Malta descritta da Michele Acciard\", dealing with the Conspiracy of the Slaves which had occurred two years earlier. This book landed him in trouble with Grand Master Manuel Pinto da Fonseca, since in it he attacked the Order of St. John and argued for the rights of the Maltese. De Soldanis had to go to Rome to defend himself in front of Pope Benedict XIV, but he returned to Malta in 1752 and was forgiven by Pinto.\n\nDe Soldanis also wrote a series of dialogues, which are now regarded as having linguistic and socio-cultural importance.\n\nMany of De Soldanis' works and manuscripts are now found at the National Library of Malta.\n\nAgius de Soldanis Girls' Junior Lyceum and Secondary School in Victoria, Gozo, the only girls' school in Gozo and one of the largest schools in Malta, is named after de Soldanis. His bust is found in Villa Rundle Gardens in Victoria.\n\nThe 300th anniversary of de Soldanis' birth was celebrated in 2012 with exhibitions and other events in Victoria and Valletta. A plaque in his honour was unveiled at St. George's Square, Victoria in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "26826220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26826220", "title": "Global intellectual history", "text": "Global intellectual history\n\nGlobal intellectual history is the history of thought in the world across the span of human history, from the invention of writing to the present. For information about the methodology of intellectual history, please see the relevant article.\n\nIn recent years, historians such as C. A. Bayly have been calling for a \"global intellectual history\" to be written. They stress that to understand the history of ideas across time and space, it is necessary to study from a cosmopolitan or global point of view the connections and the parallels in intellectual development across the world. Yet these separate histories and their convergence in the modern period have yet to be brought together into a single historical narrative. Nonetheless, some global histories, like Bayly's own \"Birth of the Modern World\" or David Armitage's \"The Declaration of Independence: A Global History\" offer contributions to the huge and necessarily collaborative project of writing the history of thought in a comparative and especially connective way. Other examples of transnational intellectual histories include Albert Hourani's \"Arabic Thought in the Liberal Age\".\n\nThe origins of human intellectual history arguably began before the invention of writing, but historians are by definition only concerned with the eras in which writing was present. In the spirit of a historiographic project that is relevant to all human beings and that has yet to be completed, the sections that follow briefly review currents of thought in pre-modern and modern history of the world, and are organized by geographic area (and within each section, chronologically).\n\nThe modern intellectual history of Europe cannot be separated from various bodies of ancient thought, from the works of classical Greek and Latin authors to the writings of the fathers of the Christian Church. Such a broad survey of topics is not attempted here, however. A debatable but defensible starting point for modern European thought might instead be identified with the birth of scholasticism and humanism in the 13th and 14th centuries. Both of these intellectual currents were associated with classical revivals (in the case of scholasticism, the rediscovery of Aristotle; in the case of humanism, of Latin antiquity, especially Cicero) and with prominent founders, Aquinas and Petrarch respectively. But they were both significantly original intellectual experiences, as well as self-consciously modern, so that they make an appropriate starting point for this survey.\n\nWhat follows below is a selective and far from complete listing of significant trends and individuals in the history of European thought. While movements such as the Enlightenment or Romanticism are relatively imprecise approximations, rarely taken too seriously by scholars, they are good starting points for approaching the enormous complexity of the history of Europe's intellectual heritage. It is hoped that interested readers will pursue the listed topics in greater depth by consulting the respective articles and the suggestions for further reading.\n\nThe intellectual history of western Europe and the Americas includes:\n\n\"Pre-Modern East Asia\"\n\nThe intellectual history of China is connected to the birth of scholarship in ancient China, the creation of Confucianism with its extensive exegesis of the texts of Confucius, and the active part of scholars in governments. In Korea, the yangban scholar movement drove the development of Korean intellectual history from the late Goryeo to the golden age of intellectual achievement in the Joseon Dynasty.\n\nIn China, \"literati\" referred to the government officials who formed the ruling class in China for over two thousand years. These \"scholar-bureaucrats\" were a status group of educated laymen, not ordained priests. They were not a hereditary group as their position depended on their knowledge of writing and literature. After 200 B.C. the system of selection of candidates was influenced by Confucianism and established its ethic among the literati.\n\nConfucianism (儒家, literally \"scholarly tradition\") is a Chinese ethical and philosophical system originally developed from the teachings of the early Chinese sage Confucius. Confucius is seen as the founder of the teachings of Confucianism, although he claimed to follow the ways of people before him. Confucianism is a complex system of moral, social, political, philosophical, and religious thought which has had tremendous influence on the culture and history of East Asia. Some people in Europe have considered it to have been the \"state religion\" in East Asian countries because of governmental promotion of Confucianist values and needs.\n\nOther ancient intellectual currents in East Asia include Buddhism and Daoism.\n\n\"Modern East Asia\"\n\nThe modern intellectual history of China is considered to begin with the arrival of the Jesuits in the sixteenth century. The Jesuits brought with them new astronomical and cartographic knowledge, and were responsible for new developments in Chinese science. Science in modern China has been the subject of the work of the historian Benjamin Elman.\n\n\"Pre-Modern South Asia\"\n\nIndian thought is a broad topic that includes the ancient epics of South Asia, the development of what is now called Hinduism and Hindu philosophy and the rise of Buddhism, as well as many other topics relating to the political and artistic lives of pre-modern South Asia.\n\nRam Sharan Sharma's work \"Aspects of Political Ideas and Institutions in India\" (Motilal Banarsidass is the most authoritative account of ancient Indian political ideas and institutions. It deals with the intellectual standards in ancient India in terms of political institutions.\n\n\"Pre-Modern History\"\n\nThe culture of the ancient Near East and eventually of much of Africa as well was modified significantly by the arrival of Islam beginning in the seventh century CE. The history of Islam has been the work of many scholars, both Muslim and non-Muslim, and including such luminaries as Ignác Goldziher, Marshall Hodgson and in more recent times Patricia Crone. Islamic culture is not a simple and unified entity. The history of Islam, like that of other religions, is a history of different interpretations and approaches to Islam. There is no a-historical Islam outside the process of historical development.\n\nIslamic thought includes a variety of different intellectual disciplines, including theology, the study of the Qur'an, the study of Hadith, history, grammar, rhetoric and philosophy. For more information see the Islamic Golden Age.\n\nClassical Islamic scholars and authors include:\n\nPersian philosophy can be traced back as far as to Old Iranian philosophical traditions and thoughts which originated in ancient Indo-Iranian roots and were considerably influenced by Zarathustra's teachings. Throughout Iranian history and due to remarkable political and social changes such as the Macedonian, Arab and Mongol invasions of Persia a wide spectrum of schools of thoughts showed a variety of views on philosophical questions extending from Old Iranian and mainly Zoroastrianism-related traditions to schools appearing in the late pre-Islamic era such as Manicheism and Mazdakism as well as various post-Islamic schools. Iranian philosophy after Arab invasion of Persia, is characterized by different interactions with the Old Iranian philosophy, the Greek philosophy and with the development of Islamic philosophy. The Illumination School and the Transcendent Philosophy are regarded as two of the main philosophical traditions of that era in Persia.\n\n\"Modern Near and Middle East\"\n\nIslam and modernity encompass the relation and compatibility between the phenomenon of modernity, its related concepts and ideas, and the religion of Islam. In order to understand the relation between Islam and modernity, one point should be made in the beginning. Similarly, modernity is a complex and multidimensional phenomenon rather than a unified and coherent phenomenon. It has historically had different schools of thoughts moving in many directions.\n\nIntellectual movements in Iran involve the Iranian experience of modernism, through which Iranian modernity and its associated art, science, literature, poetry, and political structures have been evolving since the 19th century. Religious intellectualism in Iran develops gradually and subtly. It reached its apogee during the Persian Constitutional Revolution (1906–11). The process involved numerous philosophers, sociologists, political scientists and cultural theorists. However the associated art, cinema and poetry remained to be developed.\n\n\"Modern Africa\"\n\nRecent concepts about African culture include the African Renaissance and Afrocentrism. The African Renaissance is a concept popularized by South African President Thabo Mbeki who called upon the African people and nations to solve the many problems troubling the African continent. It reached its height in the late 1990s but continues to be a key part of the post-apartheid intellectual agenda in South Africa. The concept however extends well beyond intellectual life to politics and economic development.\n\nWith the rise of Afrocentrism, the push away from Eurocentrism has led to the focus on the contributions of African people and their model of world civilization and history. Afrocentrism aims to shift the focus from a perceived European-centered history to an African-centered history. More broadly, Afrocentrism is concerned with distinguishing the influence of European and Oriental peoples from African achievements.\n\nNotable modern African intellectual include:\n"}
{"id": "48903819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48903819", "title": "Golden age of fraternalism", "text": "Golden age of fraternalism\n\nThe Golden Age of Fraternalism is a term referring to a period when membership in the fraternal societies in the United States grew at a very rapid pace in the latter third of the 19th century and continuing into the first part of the 20th. At its peak, it was suggested that as much as 40% of the adult population held membership in at least one fraternal order.\n\nMajor examples are the Ku Klux Klan, the Freemasons, the Odd Fellows, and the Good Templars.\n\nThe earliest fraternal societies, the Freemasons and the Odd Fellows, had their roots in 18th century America. The Freemasons were especially influential and counted such prestigious members as Ben Franklin and George Washington during the radical era. They experienced a precipitous decline after the Morgan Affair led to a moral panic against secret societies, but had largely recovered by the 1850s, albeit slowly.\n\nThe Independent Order of Good Templars, which is part of the temperance movement, was unique in that from the beginning, it admitted both men and women, as well as both African Americans and European Americans.\n\nAfter the American Civil War, the Grand Army of the Republic was formed, taking its membership from Union veterans seeking to continue the camaraderie of military service. Other fraternal organizations arose as well, such as the Independent Order of Good Templars (1851), Knights of Pythias (1864), the Patrons of Husbandry (the Grange, 1867), Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks (1868), the Knights of Columbus (1882), the Loyal Order of Moose (1888), and the Woodmen of the World (1890).\n\nThese organizations served various goals: mutual aid and insurance, political interests, or social functions, but they each offered their members the comfort of stability and belonging in a dynamic and rapidly industrializing society. They also were less exclusive than the older fraternities, the Masons and Odd Fellows, on which they were modeled. In response, these fraternities also enlarged and offered ever more elaborate ritual and costuming. By 1900, the Odd Fellows were the largest fraternity in the US, with almost a million members, followed closely by the Freemasons.\n\nThe effects of fraternalism on the development of government and society were profound. Although, with the exception of the Grand Army of the Republic, they were racially segregated, they nonetheless brought together a broad range of classes under each fraternal banner. They provided a very important insurance function for the average workman, and they brought organization to various political ends.\n\nThe Freemasons drew many of its members from the professional and merchant classes, and did not have an explicit insurance program, leaving them financially better off than most other orders. Their origin and ritual, as their name suggests, likely derives from medieval builders. As a result, during the Golden Age of Fraternalism they built many impressive buildings and monuments that survive in most US cities.\n\nThe last major fraternity to be organized during this era was also its most controversial— the refounding of the Ku Klux Klan in 1915. Its principles were largely political as it supported an anti-Catholic, antisemitic, white nationalist, and anti-immigrant platform. Its decline was as spectacular as its rise. The overt venality of its leaders and their scandals caused widespread revulsion. The Great Depression of the 1930s hurt all the fraternal orders and the Klan went moribund.\n\nGovernment welfare programs that formed during the Progressive and New Deal eras, as well as the rise of available commercial insurance, lessened the need for the mutual aid fraternities. Some, such as the Modern Woodmen of the World and the Independent Order of Foresters, became insurance companies themselves.\n\nThe Freemasons, as the oldest and most storied of the ritualistic fraternities, continued to grow as a result of an influx of members after World War II, reaching their zenith in terms of absolute numbers in 1959. However, as a percentage of the population, it never matched the reach it attained during the golden age of fraternalism and continues to decline. In 2014, the Masonic Service Association of North America reported only 1.2 million members under their associated Grand Lodges.\n"}
{"id": "18758573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18758573", "title": "Géza Alföldy", "text": "Géza Alföldy\n\nGéza Alföldy (June 7, 1935 – November 6, 2011) was a Hungarian Ancient historian.\n\nGéza Alföldy was born in Budapest. He studied at the University of Budapest from 1953 to 1958, where he in 1959 received a doctorate. Alföldy worked at the Budapest city museum from 1957 to 1960, and from 1960 to 1965 he was an assistant professor at the Institute for Ancient History at the University of Budapest. In 1965, he emigrated to West Germany, where he initially worked at the Bonn Rhenanian State Museum from 1965 to 1968. During this time, Alföldy earned a habilitation at the University of Bonn in 1966, where he served as a university lecturer and eventually as a full professor. In the same year he became professor of Ancient History at the Ruhr University Bochum. Alföldy was appointed professor for Ancient History at the University of Heidelberg in 1975 and stayed there until his retirement in 2002. After the renewal of his professorship, Alföldy taught as a substitute professor until 2005. He died in Athens, Greece.\n\nIn 2003, he acted as historical counsel for the two-part historical film \"\" starring Peter O'Toole.\n\nAlföldys's main fields of research are:\n\nIn the 1990s, Alföldy also concerned himself with the modern history of his native Hungary.\n\nWithin the scope of his epigraphical studies, Gezá Alföldy visited many countries (Albania, Algeria, Austria, Britain, Cyprus, Egypt, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Libya, Portugal, Spain, Syria, Turkey, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia) in order to research original ancient inscriptions.\n\nFurthermore, Alföldy was a guest professor at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton (1972/73), in Rome from 1986 and 2003, in Paris (1991), and Pécs (still in 1993) in Poznań (1992), in Budapest (1993), and also in Barcelona in 1997 and 1998.\n\nIn addition, he continued to deliver diverse academic lectures both in and outside Germany, while supervising scores of new academics during their promotion or habilitation phases (more than one dozen alone since 1992).\n\nAlföldy was also co-editor of numerous international academic journals and periodicals. His name was especially associated with the \"Heidelberger Althistorische Beiträge und Epigraphische Studien (HABES)\", which he was sole editor from 1986. Alföldy was corresponding member or honorary member of multiple academic societies and academies and a respected member of the Heidelberg Academy since 1978.\n\nApart from organizations like the Heidelberg Academy, Alföldy also worked at many other German research institutes: the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the German Archaeological Institute, as well as at Italian, French, and Spanish facilities for research of classical antiquity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11708373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11708373", "title": "Historic center of Mexico City", "text": "Historic center of Mexico City\n\nThe historic center of Mexico City (), also known as the Centro or Centro Histórico, is the central neighborhood in Mexico City, Mexico, focused on Zócalo or main plaza and extending in all directions for a number of blocks, with its farthest extent being west to the Alameda Central. The Zocalo is the largest plaza in Latin America. It can hold up to nearly 100,000 people.\n\nThis section of the capital lies in the municipal borough of Cuauhtémoc, has just over nine square km and occupies 668 blocks. It contains 9,000 buildings, 1,550 of which have been declared of historical importance. Most of these historic buildings were constructed between the 16th and 20th centuries. It is divided into two zones for preservation purposes. Zone A encompasses the pre-Hispanic city and its expansion from the Viceroy period until Independence. Zone B covers the areas all other constructions to the end of the 19th century that are considered indispensable to the preservation of the area's architectural and cultural heritage.\n\nThis is where the Spaniards began to build what is now modern Mexico City in the 16th century on the ruins of the conquered Tenochtitlan, capital of the Aztec Empire. As the centre of the ancient Aztec Empire and the seat of power for the Spanish colony of New Spain, the Centro Historico contains most of the city's historic sites from both eras as well as a large number of museums. This has made it a World Heritage Site.\n\nWhat is now the historic downtown of Mexico City roughly correlates with the ancient Aztec city of Tenochtitlan, which was founded around 1325. During the prehispanic era, the city developed in a planned fashion, with streets and canals aligned with the cardinal directions, leading to orderly square blocks. The island that the city was founded on was divided into four calpullis or neighborhoods that were divided by the main north-south roads leading to Tepeyac and Iztapalapa respectively and the west-east road that lead to Tacuba and to a dike into the lake, respectively. The calpullis were named Cuepopan, Atzacualco, Moyotla and Zoquipan, which had subdivisions and a \"tecpan\" or district council each. The intersection of these roads was the center of the city and of the Aztec world. Here were the Templo Mayor, the palaces of the tlatoani or emperors, palaces of nobles such as the \"House of the Demons\" and the \"House of the Flowers\". Also located here were the two most renowned Aztec schools: the Telpuchcalli for secular studies and the Calmecac for priestly training. When the Spaniards arrived, the city had aqueducts built by Moctezuma Ilhuicamina and Ahuizotl as well as a large dike constructed to the east of the city.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest, this design remained largely intact, mostly due to the efforts of Alonso Garcia Bravo, who supervised much of the rebuilding of the city. This reconstruction conserved many of the main thoroughfares such as Tenayuca, renamed Vallejo; Tlacopan, renamed México Tacuba, and Tepeyac, now called the Calzada de los Misterios. They also kept major divisions of the city adding Christian prefixes to the names such as San Juan Moyotla, Santa María Tlaquechiuacan, San Sebastián Atzacualco and San Pedro Teopan. In fact, most of the centro historicos is built with the rubble of the destroyed Aztec city.\n\nA number of people during this time, all Spaniards, accumulated vast wealth mostly through mining and commerce in the 17th and 18th centuries. This wealth is reflected in the various mansions scattered in the centro such as the Palace of Iturbide and Casa de Azulejos (House of Tiles). This house was built in the 16th century in Arab style but its namesake tiles were added in 1747 when the Count of the Valley of Orizaba ordered the Talavera tiles from Puebla.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, as a result of the Latin American posture of then-Minister of Public Education José Vasconcelos, many of the streets to the north and west of the Zocalo were renamed after Latin American countries.\n\nHistorically, the Zócalo, or main plaza, has been a venue for fine and popular cultural events. Some example of events held here recently are Spencer Tunick's photo shoot, the Ashes and Snow Nomadic museum and a skateboarding/BMX event that drew 50,000 young people on 24 August 2008. The \"Festival de México\" is an annual event with programs dedicated to art (popular and high) and academia. In 2008, was the 24th Festival with 254 performances and shows from over 20 countries.in 65 plazas and other locations in this section of the city.\n\nIt is central to national level protests such as those staged by Lopez Obrador after the 2006 Presidential Elections and the nationwide protest against crime held on August 30, 2008.\nJust off the Zócalo are the Palacio Nacional, the Cathedral Metropolitana, the Templo Mayor with its adjoining museum, and Nacional Monte de Piedad building. The Palacio Nacional borders the entire east side of the Zocalo and contains the offices of the President of Mexico, the Federal Treasury, the National Archives as well as murals depicting pre-Hispanic life and a large mural filling the central stairway depicting the entire history of the Mexican nation from the Conquest on. This palace was built on the ruins of Moctezuma II's palace beginning in 1521, using the same tezontle stone used to build the Aztec palace. It was originally in the Hernán Cortés family until the king of Spain bought it to house the viceroys of New Spain and remained so (despite being destroyed and rebuilt again in 1692) until Mexican independence. Facing the Zócalo above a central balcony is the Campana (Bell) of Dolores, which is rung by the president each 15th of Sept to celebrate Independence.\nThe Metropolitan Cathedral, dedicated to the Assumption of the Most Blessed Virgin Mary, occupies the north end of the Zócalo. The site originally was part of the Aztec Sacred Precinct (called the Teocalli) and contained the main tzompantli, or rack for the skulls of sacrifice victims. The first church was erected between 1524 or 1526 and 1532 and was elevated to the rank of cathedral on 2 September 1530 by Pope Clement VII. The foundations for a new cathedral were begun in 1562 and the foundation stone was laid in 1573 in the time of Archbishop Pedro Moya de Contreras and of the 4th Viceroy. Although the works had not been concluded, the cathedral received its first dedication on 2 February 1656. The completion in 1813 of the neo-classical additions designed by Manuel Tolsa was celebrated on 15 August 2013 by Cardinal Carrera who opened and entered through the Holy Door in the center of the façade prior to celebrating Pontifical High Mass in the cathedral.\n\nBetween 1989 and 2000 extensive engineering works were conducted to arrest and rectify damage and distortions caused to the structure by the uneven rate and extent of the sinking of the building provoked by the continuous settlement of the ground on which it stands. This began with the drainage of the lake of the Valley of Mexico initiated in 1607 and has continued with the reduction of the water-table caused by the pumping of water for use by Mexico City's rapidly expanding population. The last of the temporary props which had disfigured the interior of the building during the engineering works were removed on 28 November 2000.\nThe Templo Mayor archeological site and museum, is the center of the ancient teocalli, located now just northeast of the Zócalo. It was demolished by Hernán Cortés in the 1520s and its location forgotten. The exact site was determined in the beginning of the 20th century, but the decision to excavate was not made until 1978, when electrical workers chanced upon an eight-ton stone disk depicting the Aztec goddess Coyolxauhqui. Excavation unearthed a pyramid built in multiple layers. This is the spot where, according to legend, the Aztecs saw their sign to settle from their wanderings, an eagle perched on a nopal cactus with a snake in its beak, which is still the symbol of Mexico today.\n\nThe Nacional Monte de Piedad building is the national pawn shop, founded in 1775 and one of the largest second-hand shops in the world. On this site were houses that belonged to the last Aztec ruler, Moctezuma II, which Hernán Cortés took for his own after the Conquest. These houses originally stretched from modern-day Isabel la Catolica, Madero, Tacuba and Monte de Piedad streets, prompting one chronicler, Cervantes de Salazar to comment that the residence was not a palace but rather another city.\n\n\"Santo Domingo\" refers to the Church of Santo Domingo and the adjoining plaza. Both are located three blocks north of the Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral following Republica de Brasil Street with Belisario Dominguez Street separating the two. Officially known as the Señor de la Expiación Chapel, the church is located on the north side of Belisario Dominguez and faces the plaza. It is all that is left from the first convent to be established in New Spain. To the south of the church is Plaza San Domingo. It is flanked to the west by the Portal de Evangelistas, which is a Tuscan colonnade with round arches. Scribes with typewriters and antique printing machines work in this Portal. Scribes offer their services to illiterate clients, often offering services similar to that of lawyers, counselors, and financial consultants. A statue of Josefa Ortiz de Dominguez, a heroine of the Mexican War of Independence stands in a fountain in the middle of the plaza.\n\nThe San Ildefonso College currently is a museum and cultural center considered to be the birthplace of the Mexican muralism movement. San Ildefonso began as a prestigious Jesuit boarding school, and after the Reform War, it gained educational prestige again as National Preparatory School. This school and the building closed completely in 1978, then reopened as a museum and cultural center in 1994. The museum has permanent and temporary art and archeological exhibitions in addition to the many murals painted on its walls by José Clemente Orozco, Diego Rivera and others. The complex is located between San Ildefonso Street and Justo Sierra Street in the historic center of Mexico City.\n\nSecretaría de Educación Pública at Calle Argentina\nCentro Cultural de España (Cultural Center of Spain), located on Republica de Guatemala street just north of the Mexico City Cathedral.\nMuseum Archive of Photography, located at the corner of Republica de Guatemala and Republica de Argentina Street\nLirico Theatre, located on Republica de Cuba street\nAntigua Escuela de Economía (Old School of Economics), located on Republica de Cuba Street\nColegio Nacional, located on The Colegio Nacional Building, located on Luis Gonzalez Obregon Street\nOld Customs building, on Republica de Brasil just off the Plaza Santo Domingo \nPalace of the Inquisition (Museum of Mexican Medicine) located on Republica de Brasil\n\nThe Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation is located just off the main plaza of Mexico City on the corners of Pino Suárez and Carranza Streets. It was built between 1935 and 1941 by Antonio Muñoz Garcia. Prior to the Conquest, this site was reserved for the ritual known as \"Dance of the Flyers\" which is still practiced today in Papantla. Its ownership was in dispute during much of the colonial period, eventually becoming the site of a very large market known as El Volador. The interior of the building contains four panels painted in 1941 by José Clemente Orozco, two of which are named \"The Social Labor Movement\" and \"National Wealth.\" There is also one mural done by American artist George Biddle entitled \"War and Peace\" at the entrance to the library.\n\nTemple of Saint Augustine Located on Avenida Republica de El Salvador\nThe original El Palacio de Hierro store located on Carranza and 20 de noviembre streets\nThe original Liverpool department store on Carranza and 20 de noviembre streets\nSaint Augustine House Located on Republica de Uruguay and 5 de Febrero streets\nThe Chapel of the Most Holy Conception of Tlaxcoaque, one of the oldest churches in Mexico City on Fray Servando de Mier\nChurch of San Bernardo off the Zocalo\n\nThe Palace of Iturbide - this large palatial home, located in the historic center of Mexico City on Madero Street #17 was built by the Count of San Mateo Valparaíso in the 18th century as a wedding gift for his daughter. It gained the name \"Palace of Iturbide\" because Agustín de Iturbide lived and accepted the crown as Mexico's first emperor there after independence from Spain. Today, the restored building houses the Fomento Cultural Banamex and has been renamed the Palacio de Cultura Banamex.\n\nThe Torre Latinoamericana This is one of the best-known skyscrapers in Latin America. It was begun in 1948 and completed in 1956 and is 182 meters tall, antennae included. It is located on the corner of Eje Central and Juarez Streets. It was the tallest tower in Mexico prior to the construction of Torre Pemex. The building has survived two major earthquakes since it was built, one in 1957 and the other in 1985.\n\nThe Museo Nacional de Arte (MUNAL) is the Mexican National Art Museum, located in the historical center of Mexico City. The museum is housed in a neoclassical building at No. 8 Tacuba, Col. Centro, Mexico City. It houses a collection representing the history of Mexican art from the late pre-Hispanic era to the early 20th century. It is recognizable by Manuel Tolsá's large equestrian statue of Charles IV of Spain who was the monarch just before Mexico gained its Independence. It was originally in the Zocalo but it was moved to several locations, not out of deference to the king but rather to conserve a piece of art, according to the plaque at the base. It arrived to its final location in 1979.\n\nThe Palacio de Correos de Mexico (Postal Palace of Mexico City) also known as the \"Correo Mayor\" (Main Post Office) is located in the historic center of Mexico City, on the Eje Central (Lazaro Cardenas) near the Palacio de Bellas Artes. It is an early 20th-century building built in the style of an Italian Renaissance palace. It was designed by Italian Adamo Boari, who also designed part of the Palacio de Bellas Artes across the street.\n\nCasa de Azulejos a former mansion completely covered in blue and white Puebla tile between Avenida Madero and Avenida Cinco de Mayo \nColegio de Minería (College of Mining) on Tacuba Street\nMexican Army Museum originally Bethlemites Hospital, located at Tacuba and Mata \nGarden of the Triple Alliance on corner of Tacuba and Mata\nCámara de Senadores on Xicoténcatl Street\nMuseo de Estanquillo (cartoons and magazines) on corner of Isabel la Catolica and Madero\nTemple of San Felipe Neri \"La Profesa\" with collection of artwork from the 17th to 20th centuries, and guided tours on Saturdays from 1200 to 1400 hrs\nInteractive Museum of Economics on Tacuba Street\nSanta Clara church - Library of Congress on corner of Tacuba and Mata\nSenate of Mexico Chambers on corner of Donceles and Xicotencatl streets\nChamber of Deputies on Donceles Street\nTeatro de la Ciudad on Donceles Street\nAcademia Mexicana on Donceles 66\n\nThe Museo de la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público is an art museum located at Moneda Street #4. It is housed in what was the Palacio del Arzobispado (Palace of the Archbishopric), built in 1530 under Friar Juan de Zumárraga on the base of the destroyed pyramid dedicated to the Aztec god Tezcatlipoca. It remained the archbishphoric until 1867 when the Finance Ministry Accountancy Department was established there. The modern museum houses an exhibit dedicated to this god as well as a large art collection.\n\nLa Santísima Church is located the cornoer of La Santísima and Emiliano Zapata streets. Its full name is Temple and Hospital of the Most Holy Trinity (Templo y Antiguo Hospital de la Santisíma Trinidad). The church was built between 1755 and 1783 as a temple for the adjoining hospital/hospice for priests. The church still retains its original function but the adjoining hospital and office sites have since moved into private hands with only parts of the original structures still intact and preserved. The church is also noted for the fact that it has sunk almost three meters since it was built.\nThe José Luis Cuevas Museum is located just off the main plaza, or Zocalo of Mexico City in a building that was the convent for the neighboring Church of Santa Ines (Agnes of Rome). This convent was founded in 1600 by Don Diego Caballero and his wife Doña Inés de Velasco. The convent existed until 1861, when, due to the Nationalization of Church Property Act, all convents and monasteries in the country were disbanded. The convent's church and residence hall where separated and the Church of Santa Inés still maintains its original function. The residence hall became private property, functioning mostly as tenements until artist José Luis Cuevas bought the property with the intention to restoring it and establishing the current museum dedicated to his art and art of contemporary Latin America.\n\nThe House of the First Print Shop in the Americas at the corner of Moneda and Licenciado Primo Verdad streets was the home of the first printing press/print shop in the New World. The house was originally constructed by Gerónimo de Aguilar in 1524 and is located on the outer edge of what was the sacred precinct of the Templo Mayor prior to the Conquest.\n\nCathedral Nuestra Señora de Balvanera and Sanctuary of San Charbel, built in the 17th century located at Rep Uruguay and Correo Mayor.\nPalacio de la Autonomia de UNAM, (Palace of UNAM's Autonomy) located off of Moneda Street.\nDepartamento de Estadistica Nacional (Dept. of National Statistics) building on Correo Mayor\n\nAlameda Central is a public park in downtown Mexico City, adjacent to the Palacio de Bellas Artes, between Juarez Avenue and Hidalgo Avenue. It is a green garden with paved paths and decorative fountains and statues, and is frequently the center of civic events. The area used to be an Aztec marketplace and after the Conquest, the Catholic Church used the area for the burning of heretics and witches. The park was created in 1592, when Viceroy Luis de Velasco decided to create green space here as a public park. The name comes from the Spanish word \"álamo\", which means poplar tree, which were planted here. By the late 19th century, the park included a bandstand and gas (now electric) lamps. On the south side of the park, facing toward the street is the Hemiciclo a Juárez, which is a large white semi-circular monument to Benito Juárez, who is one of Mexico's most beloved presidents.\n\nPalacio de Bellas Artes on Juárez Street\nTeatro Hidalgo on Hidalgo Street north of the Alameda Central\nParish of Santa Cruz, Mexico City on Hidalgo Street\nMuseo Nacional de la Estampa (National Print Museum) located on Hidalgo Street\nFranz Mayer Museum on Hidalgo Street\nParish of La Santa Vera Cruz de San Juan de Dios on Hidalgo Street\nEx Temple of Corpus Christi on Juarez Street\n\nMexico City's Chinatown, known locally as \"Barrio Chino\", is located on two blocks of Dolores Street, just south of the Palacio de Bellas Artes. It is very small, consisting only of a number of restaurants and businesses that import goods. Its diminished size is because most descendants of Chinese immigrants to Mexico in the late 19th and early 20th centuries either intermarried with the local Mexican population and/or were expelled from the country in the 1930s. Despite this, it is considered the nucleus of the approximately 3,000 families with Chinese heritage in Mexico City.\n\nEven though Spanish colonial buildings make up most of Centro histórico there are examples of different architectural styles\n\n\nPrimary and secondary schools:\n\nFrom Aztec times, the Centro Historico used to be where the wealthy and elite lived. However, in the early 20th century, these classes began to move to areas west and southwest of the Centro, to neighbourhoods such as Colonia Juárez, Colonia Cuauhtémoc, Colonia Roma and Colonia Condesa. The Centro remained the commercial, political and intellectual center through the mid 20th century although it was around this time that UNAM moved most of its facilities to the new Ciudad Universitaria. The reason for the decline of the city center was partly man-made and partly natural. In the 1940s, the city government froze rents so that until 1998 when the government repealed the law, tenants were still paying 1950's-level rents. With no financial incentive to keep up their properties, landlords let their buildings disintegrate. The 1985 earthquake took its toll on a number of these structures, which were never fixed or rebuilt, leading to slums and garbage-strewn vacant lots. The result was the loss of about 100,000 residents of the \"Colonia Centro\", leaving the area almost deserted at night.\n\nBy the 1980s, so many had fled the Centro that many of its former mansions were either abandoned or turned into tenements for the poor, and its sidewalks and streets taken over by pickpockets and milling vendors. For many people, especially international visitors, Mexico City's reputation for pollution, traffic and crime has made the city someplace to \"get into and out of as fast as you can\", seeing it as little more than an airport through which to make their connecting flights to resort areas like Cozumel. Until recently, many of the restaurants in the area, even the best, would close early to allow employees time to get home because the area was not particularly safe at night.\n\nMany of historic churches in the oldest parts of the city are in serious disrepair and are in danger of being lost. Efforts to save these churches are hampered by disagreements between the Church and the federal government. Because these churches are both active religious institutions and historical landmarks, their legal situation is complicated. By law, religious institutions cannot appeal to the government for financial help, but agencies like the National Council for Culture and Arts (CONACULTA) do have say in how these places are maintained because of their historic value.\n\nSome of the disagreement is over the extent of the deterioration. Conaculta does not believe that any of the 68 religious buildings in the oldest part of city are in imminent danger of collapse. However the Archdiocese of Mexico believes that the structural problems noted constitute a grave danger to both people and to the \"incalculable artistic and historic value of the buildings.\" One of the churches in imminent danger is called San Lorenzo Diácono y Mártir, with Our Lady of Loreto, La Santísima Trinidad and La Santa Cruz also requiring prompt attention to avoid collapse. The San Lorenzo and Loreto churches both have had incidences where large pieces of the building, a stone and a window respectively, have fallen, causing damage but no injuries. Despite efforts by the archdiocese to demonstrate the extent of the damage of many of the churches, Conaculta still maintains that none of the buildings are in danger of coming down. Another problem is that the depopulation of the historic center, which leaves these churches fairly empty and the diocese unable to fund restoration work.\n\nStarting in the early 2000s, the government has infused 500 million Mexican pesos (55 million USD) into the Historic Center Trust and entered into a partnership with the \"Fundación Centro Histórico\", an organization established by Carlos Slim, to buy dozens of centuries-old buildings for rehabilitation. The significance of this effort was recognized when, in 2006, the Historic Center was included in the 2006 World Monuments Watch by the World Monuments Fund. Work began with the renovation of 34 blocks just north of the Zocalo, digging up the antiquated drainage system and improving water supply. An architect was put in charge of each of the thirteen main streets to restore the facades of more than 500 buildings. The latest infrastructure projects of this type have focused on the southwest portions of the area, on República de El Salvador, Talavera, Correo Mayor, Mesones and Pino Suárez streets, mostly focusing on repaving and improving the outdated drainage systems. In the process, artifacts dating from as early as the pre-Hispanic period have been unearthed.\n\nAll over the historic center, streets have been pedestrianized, buildings have been remodeled and restored, and new museums opened. In the 1990s, after many years of controversy, protests and even riots, most street vendors were evicted to other parts of the city. The impetus to bring things back to the city center included the construction of the new mayoral residence just off the Zocalo. The government has buried electric and telephone cables in the area, and replaced old asphalt with paving stones. It has also installed nearly 100 security cameras to help with crime issues. This paved the way for the opening of upscale eateries, bars and fashionable stores. Also, young people are moving into downtown lofts. To attract more tourists, there are new red double-decker buses.\n\nAs of 2004, investment in the city center has climbed to over 5 billion pesos or 438 million U.S. dollars. According to the Historic Center of Mexico City Trust, this has led to the creation of 15,000 jobs and property owners in the area are showing interest in improving on their investments here. It has also attracted outside investment into the area.\n"}
{"id": "8472241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8472241", "title": "Johan Frans Podolyn", "text": "Johan Frans Podolyn\n\nJohan Frans Podolyn or Johann Franz Podolyn (Lisbon 29 May 1739 - Gothenburg 29 May 1784) was a Swedish numismatist who published on Punic currency in his possession which had been found on the island of Corvo in the Azores. He wrote about the discovery in 1778 in a Swedish academic publication now known as the Publications of the Royal Society of Sciences and Letters in Gothenburg, presumably indicating that he was a member of the society.\n\nPodolyn was the son of a Swedish merchant and Vice-Consul. He had a gift for languages and worked for the Alströmer family, accompanying them on voyages in addition to working as a bookkeeper in Gothenburg and Alingsås. He amassed a considerable coin collection. He was married to Anna Norberg; he had been engaged to marry Jeanette Ölander, but she died before the marriage could take place.\n"}
{"id": "23690406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690406", "title": "John Ben Shepperd", "text": "John Ben Shepperd\n\nJohn Ben Shepperd (October 19, 1915 – March 8, 1990) was an American lawyer, businessman, and politician who served as the Secretary of State (1950-1952) and Attorney General (1953–1957) for the U.S. state of Texas. During his tenure as Attorney General, Shepperd actively worked to oppose the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" decision mandating racial integration of public schools.\n\nShepperd was born in Gladewater, a small town in Gregg County near the more populous county seat of Longview, to Alfred Fulton Shepperd and the former Berthal Phillips. He graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1938 and an LL.B. in 1941. He was made a partner in the law firm of Kenley, Sharp, and Shepperd in Longview. During World War II, Shepperd served for two years in the United States Army. In 1946, on his release from the military, Shepperd was appointed to complete the term of his father, who had resigned, on the Gregg County Commissioners Court. In Texas, such appointments are made by the county judge.\n\nShepperd rose to the top ranks of the Jaycees, or Junior Chamber of Commerce, having served as both state and national presidents of the organization. On three occasions, he was named one of the \"Outstanding Young Men in Texas\". In 1949, he was named among the \"Outstanding Young Men in America\", along with future U.S. President Gerald R. Ford, Jr., of Michigan and later U.S. Senator Charles H. Percy of Illinois. Shepperd was allied with Governor Allan Shivers and the conservative wing of the then-dominant Texas Democratic Party. He often clashed with the liberal wing headed by Ralph W. Yarborough of Austin, who would later become a U.S. Senator. In 1949, he served briefly under appointment from Shivers on the elected Texas State Board of Education. In 1950, Shivers appointed Shepperd Secretary of State of Texas. In that capacity, Shepperd organized an elections law task force and promoted measures to ensure economy in government.\n\nIn 1952, Shepperd was elected to the first of two two-year terms as Texas Attorney General. As his state's chief legal officer Shepperd led the fight against the 1954 United States Supreme Court decision \"Brown v. Board of Education\", which mandated desegregation of public schools.\n\nHe accomplished this by delivering a pro-segregation amicus curae to the Supreme Court in October of 1954 in response to Brown v. The Board of Education of Topeka, et al, the creation of an official pro-segregation policy for the Office of Attorney general of Texas, ... by networking with other states to strategize and create a hedgerow against integration of public schools, and when he wrote or organized legislation to impede the integration of public schools in Texas.\n\nAs Attorney General, Shepperd pursued numerous lawsuits against the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) that caused financial and political difficulties for the group, severely limiting the NAACP's ability to function in Texas. This included damaging their credibility, blocking their efforts to solicit people to file lawsuits, and creating the opportunity for the Internal Revenue Service to investigate them. Shepperd considered his efforts to restrict the activities of the NAACP in Texas as one of his greatest achievements as Attorney General.\n\nShepperd later researched and drafted several bills designed to frustrate integration, writing in February 1957 that he \"drew up a group of segregation bills before [he] went out of office and they have already been introduced in the Texas Legislature\".\n\nShepperd spearheaded an investigation of longstanding corruption in Duval County, the political machine province of George Parr (also known as \"The Duke of Duval\"), located in the barren dusty area east of Laredo in south Texas. Shepperd's work produced some three hundred indictments of county and school officials.\n\nAs Attorney General, he led multiple investigations of alleged communist infiltration of trade unions attempting to organize themselves in Texas. Shepperd exposed a scheme to defraud Texas of tobacco taxes. He also defended Texas from questions raised by other states regarding the Submerged Lands Act of 1953 (), a federal law which allocated revenues from the tidelands to Texas. In 1956, Shepperd was elected by his forty-seven peers as president of the National Association of Attorneys General.\n\nIn 1954, the Veterans' Land Board scandal shook the Shivers administration when it was revealed that certain corrupt land speculators tried to enrich themselves at public expense. Bascom Giles, the elected commissioner of the Texas General Land Office and chairman of the Texas Veterans Land Board, was indicted, convicted, and served a prison term for his role in the scandal. Neither Shivers nor Shepperd was implicated in the wrongdoing, but both as \"ex officio\" members of the land board had missed meetings where the abuses had occurred. Another scandal involved insurance companies accused of fraudulent activities. Shepperd had been expected to seek the gubernatorial nomination in 1956, but he left elected politics to become general counsel of Odessa Natural Gasoline Company, later El Paso Products Company, and to establish a new law firm there called Shepperd and Rodman. The governorship went to U.S. Senator Price Daniel, who secured a narrow runoff victory over Ralph Yarborough. Yarborough in 1958 was elected to the first of two terms in the Senate, holding the seat that Daniel had vacated to become governor. Ironically, Daniel had also been Shepperd's predecessor as Attorney General.\n\nAfter his tenure as attorney general, Shepperd moved to Odessa, where he was active not only in law but also in insurance, banking, petrochemicals, public relations, and historical preservation. He was a political adviser and personal friend of U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson. In the middle 1960s, Shepperd was named trustee for the acquisition of land for the creation of Lyndon B. Johnson State Park and Historic Site along the Pedernales River in Gillespie County in the Texas Hill Country.\nFrom 1963-1967, Shepperd headed the renamed Texas Historical Commission and supported the placement of more markers along highways to promote historical preservation. He served on the Texas State Library and Archives Commission. He pushed for the establishment in the late 1960s of the University of Texas of the Permian Basin. One of his later accomplishments was the creation of the John Ben Shepperd Leadership Forum at UTPB, which assists students in developing the techniques to become effective leaders.\n\nHe was also involved in the planning and expansion of the Presidential Museum and Leadership Library, an institution on the UTPB campus dedicated to the office of the presidency. The \"Library of Presidents\" at the museum is named in Shepperd's honor.\nIn 1984, Shepperd was named \"Texan of the Year\" by the state Chamber of Commerce, and three years later, the West Texas chamber named him \"Outstanding West Texan\".\n\nOn October 6, 1938, Shepperd married the former Mamie Strieber (December 30, 1917—January 9, 2015) of Yorktown in DeWitt County in southeastern Texas. The couple had two sons and twin daughters, John Ben, Jr. (November 13, 1942—June 17, 1970), Alfred, Marianne (September 2, 1948—July 16, 2008), and Suzanne. Shepperd was a member of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ). He maintained residences in his native Gladewater, Texas, and in Odessa, Texas.\n\nShepperd died of cancer on March 8, 1990 at the age of 74 at his home in Gladewater. Shepperd, his son, and his daughter are interred at the private Shepperd family cemetery in Gladewater.\n\nIn 1992, the Texas Historical Commission placed historical markers at Shepperd's gravesite and also in Gladewater. Another historical marker was erected in his honor in 1981 in Odessa.\n\nThe John Ben Shepperd Public Leadership Institute at the University of Texas of the Permian Basin and the John Ben Shepperd Parkway (\"JBS Parkway\") in Odessa were named in his honor.\n"}
{"id": "18247003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18247003", "title": "John Kemény (prince)", "text": "John Kemény (prince)\n\nJános Kemény (14 December 1607 in Magyarbükkös – 23 January 1662 in Szásznagyszőllős) was a Hungarian aristocrat, writer and prince of Transylvania.\n\nJános Kemény, offspring of a Transylvanian family of Hungarian aristocrats, held various political and military positions in the Principality of Transylvania, during the reign of princes Gábor Bethlen and George I Rákóczi. As he writes, the family descends from Kemeny Simon, who disguised himself as Hunyadi János and was killed by the Turks instead of his master. The story is recorded by Heltai Gaspar's work, Magyar Cronica, a Hungarian translation/rewriting of the Latin of Antonio Bonfini published in 1560s.\n\nUnder George II Rákóczi, he became the chief advisor of the prince, and leader of the military campaigns to Moldavia in 1653 and Poland in 1657, the latter being aimed at obtaining the Polish crown for Rákóczi. The Turks strongly opposed to Rákóczi's Polish ambitions and prohibited any military action. In the face of Turkish prohibition, Kemény also objected to the prince's ill-conceived Polish undertaking, and unwillingly took the leadership of the campaign that ended in disaster; Kemény's army, deserted by the Swedish allies, was captured by the Crimean Tatar allies of the Turks.\n\nKemény was held captive by the Tatars until August 1659, when he was released for a huge ransom. During his captivity in Bakhchisaray he wrote his Autobiography (in Hungarian), one of the most excellent masterpieces of the Transylvanian memoirist literature of the 17th century.\n\nWhen he returned to Transylvania, he found a country torn by the ambitions of George II Rákóczi, unwilling to resign, a number of would-be princes, and a Turkish Porte vengeful for the unauthorized military campaign. The Sublime Porte now openly disregarded the Transylvanian Estates' right to elect the prince; Kemény saw this, and the successional invasions of Transylvania by the Turks and their Crimean Tatar allies, as an end of Transylvania's autonomy, which he thought could be prevented only with reliance on Habsburg help.\n\nKemény was elected prince by the Transylvanian Diet on 1 January 1661, after Ákos Barcsai, backed up by the Turks, was forced to resign. In April 1661, the Transylvanian Diet, led by Kemény, proclaimed the secession of Transylvania from the Ottoman Empire and called on for help from Vienna. In turn, an overwhelming Turkish and Tatar army attacked Transylvania in June, defeating Kemény's army and driving him to Royal Hungary. The Turks installed Mihály Apafi as prince; Kemény, initially supported by Austrian general Montecuccoli returned to Transylvania in early September. However, the Austrian army soon deserted him, and Kemény was killed by the Turks in the battle of Nagyszőllős.\n\nHis renaissance family castle is now in half-ruin, due to neglect of the government, in Aranyosmeggyes - visible from the main road Cluj-Napoca-Turda.\n\n"}
{"id": "32071271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32071271", "title": "John Philip Cohane", "text": "John Philip Cohane\n\nJohn Philip Cohane, born in New Haven, Connecticut was an American author. He later moved to Ireland where he wrote books on etymology and Ancient astronaut themes.\n\nCohane published \"The Indestructible Irish\" in 1968 in which he proposed that the Irish peoples were of 'Mediterranean origin’. In the book he claimed that the original blood stock in England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales is Semitic. Cohane also published \"The Key: A Startling Enquiry into the Riddle of Mans Past\", which claimed that before Egyptian, Greek, Phoenician and Carthaginian eras two major worldwide Semitic migrations took place from the Mediterranean and scattered across the earth.\n\nThe American linguist Cyrus Herzl Gordon was a friend of Cohane and wrote a preface to Cohane's book \"The Key\", Gordon was supportive of many of Cohane's theories.\n\nCohane claimed that geographical names in America have a Semitic origin. He also believed that six word roots are found in most places names of most languages. Another claim by Cohane was that the Phoenicians adopted the alphabet from a prior Semitic culture.\n\nIn 1977 Cohane published \"Paradox: The Case for the Extraterrestrial Origin of Man\" in which he claimed man is a product of interplanetary colonization (see Ancient astronauts).\n\nCohane's controversial ideas were rejected by professional archaeologists and historians as \"fantasy\" and \"pseudoscience\".\n\nArchaeologist Phil C. Weigand described \"The Key\" as a \"fantasy masked as science\" and suggested that the linguistic analysis is \"methodologically unsound to be ever seriously considered.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38358834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38358834", "title": "Kozukata", "text": "Kozukata\n\nLiterally meaning \"come-not-way\", a folk etymology for the name states that it derives from the legend that the demon Rasetsu, after he was driven out of the area, will never return.\n"}
{"id": "30795801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30795801", "title": "Kurt Josten", "text": "Kurt Josten\n\nConrad Hermann Hubertus Maria Apollinaris Josten (7 June 1912 in Neuss, Germany – 10 July 1994 in Neuss), known as Kurt Josten or C. H. Josten, was a historian of science and Curator of the Museum of the History of Science, Oxford in England.\n\nIn 1921 to 1929, Josten was educated by the Jesuits at Bad Godesberg in Germany. He studied for a year at the Staatliches Gymnasium in Neuss, followed by studies at the University of Geneva, University of Freiburg, and University of Bonn. In 1934 Josten worked in the office of the then Vice-Chancellor Franz von Papen, where he was involved in conservative plots to use the extensive powers of the aging President von Hindenburg - in particular his supreme command over the army - in order to stymie a complete grab of power by the Nazi members of the Government. When those aspirations came to a bloody end during the occupation of the Papen-Offices by the SS during the Night of the Long Knives on 30 June 1934, Josten scarcely managed to escape while his immediate superior Herbert von Bose was shot and other members of the Papen staff were arrested and taken to Lichtenburg Concentration Camp.\n\nIn 1935 Josten achieved a doctorate in law from the, University of Erlangen. However, he gave up law due to disillusionment about the state of law in Germany under the Nazis. Also in 1935, he visited England, including Oxford.\n\nJostem opposed Nazism from 1934 onwards and went into hiding in 1943 in Paris, France and then Bavaria in Germany. After World War II, he returned to England and eventually became a naturalized British citizen in 1954.\n\nIn 1949, Josten achieved a major scholarly success while working at the Bodleian Library, Oxford University's main library. He discovered the code used by Elias Ashmole (the founder of the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford) to encrypt his diaries. The decoded material was eventually published in 1966.\n\nJosten became Curator of the Museum of the History of Science at Oxford in 1950. He was an expert on the early history of chemistry (alchemy), astronomy, and early astronomical instruments. He expanded the museum's collection through purchases and the major gift of the private collection of the shipping owner, Jack Billmeir. This consisted of astronomical and mathematical instruments. It was built up with the help of Josten.\n\nOn his early retirement in 1964 at the age of 52, he took an emeritus curatorial position at the museum. He encouraged his successor, Francis Maddison, who was previously an assistant curator at the museum.\n\nKurt Josen was a member of Brasenose College, Oxford (also the college of Elias Ashmole) and a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries.\nHe lived in rooms in St John Street in central Oxford. Josten married Constanze Josten in 1962. She died in 1968.\n\n"}
{"id": "380488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380488", "title": "List of historians by area of study", "text": "List of historians by area of study\n\nThis is a list of historians categorized by their area of study. See also List of historians.\n\n\n\n\nSee also \"List of Canadian historians\".\n\n\nSee also \n\nSee also \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of newspapers and magazines,\nHistory of radio, History of television, and\nHistory of the Internet\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368054", "title": "Lord's Resistance Army insurgency", "text": "Lord's Resistance Army insurgency\n\nThe Lord's Resistance Army insurgency is an ongoing guerrilla campaign waged by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) insurgent group since 1987. Currently, there is low-level LRA activity in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Central African Republic. The movement is led by Joseph Kony, who proclaims himself the \"spokesperson\" of God and a spirit medium. It aims to overthrow Yoweri Museveni's Ugandan government and establish a theocratic state based on the Ten Commandments and Acholi tradition.\n\nThe conflict, one of Africa's longest running, has resulted in a humanitarian crisis. The LRA is accused by the International Criminal Court of widespread human rights violations, including mutilation, torture, slavery, rape, the abduction of civilians, the use of child soldiers, and a number of massacres. By 2004, the LRA had abducted more than 20,000 children, while 1.5 million civilians had been displaced and an estimated 100,000 civilians killed.\n\nThe January 1986 overthrow of President Tito Okello, an ethnic Acholi, by the National Resistance Army (NRA) of south-west Uganda born Yoweri Museveni marked a period of intense turmoil. The NRA in their efforts to liberate the entire country meted out a lot of atrocities on the people of Acholi. This act spurred some Acholis to resist the medieval acts. The Acholi are sometimes said to have feared the loss of their traditional dominance of the national military; they were also deeply concerned that the NRA would seek retribution for the brutal counterinsurgency, particularly the actions of the army in the Luwero triangle. By August of that year, a full-blown popular insurgency had developed in northern regions that were occupied by the new government forces.\n\nIn January 1987, Joseph Kony made his first appearance as a spirit medium, one of many who emerged after the initial success of the Holy Spirit Movement of Alice Auma. Former Uganda People's Democratic Army commander Odong Latek convinced Kony to adopt conventional guerrilla warfare tactics, primarily surprise attacks on civilian targets, such as villages. The LRA also occasionally carried out large-scale attacks to underline the inability of the government to protect the populace. Until 1991 the LRA raided the populace for supplies, which were carried away by villagers who were abducted for short periods of time. The fact that some NRA units were known for their brutal actions ensured that the LRA were given at least passive support by segments of the Acholi population.\n\nMarch 1991 saw the start of \"Operation North\", which combined efforts to destroy the LRA while cutting away its roots of support among the population through heavy-handed tactics. As part of Operation North, Acholi Betty Oyella Bigombe, the Minister charged with ending the insurgency, created \"Arrow Groups\" mostly armed with bows and arrows, as a form of local defence. As the LRA was armed with modern weaponry, the bow-and-arrow groups were overpowered.\n\nThe creation of the Arrow Groups angered Kony, who began to feel that he no longer had the support of the population. In response the LRA mutilated numerous Acholi whom they believed to be government supporters. While the government efforts were a failure, the LRA reaction caused many Acholi to finally turn against the insurgency. However, this was tempered by the deep-seated antagonism towards the occupying government forces.\n\nFollowing the Operation North, Bigombe initiated the first face-to-face meeting between representatives of the LRA and government. The LRA asked for a general amnesty for their combatants and stated that they would not surrender, but were willing to \"return home.\" However, the government stance was hampered by disagreement over the credibility of the LRA negotiators and political infighting. In particular, the military had learned that Kony was negotiating with the Sudanese government for support while talking to Bigombe, and felt that Kony was simply trying to buy time.\n\nAt a second meeting on 10 January 1994, Kony asked for six months to regroup his troops. By early February the tone of the negotiations was growing increasingly acrimonious, and following a meeting on 2 February, the LRA broke off negotiations stating that they felt that the NRA was trying to entrap them. Four days later, President Yoweri Museveni announced a seven-day deadline for the LRA to surrender. This ultimatum ended the Bigombe Avengers Initiative.\n\nTwo weeks after Museveni delivered his ultimatum of 6 February 1994, it was reported that LRA fighters had crossed the northern border and established bases in southern Sudan with the approval of the Khartoum government. Sudanese aid was a response to Ugandan support for the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) fighting in the civil war in the south of the country. Also, convinced that the Acholi were now collaborating with the Museveni government, Kony began to target civilians with his increased military strength. Mutilations became commonplace (especially cutting off ears, lips, nose), and 1994 saw the first mass abduction of children and youth.\n\nThe most famous of these was the Aboke abductions of 139 female students in October 1996. As most of the LRA combatants are abducted children, a military offensive against the LRA is widely perceived by the Acholi as a massacre of victims. Government attempts to destroy the rebels are thus viewed as another cause for grievance by the Acholi. The moral ambiguity of this situation, in which abducted young rebels are both the victims and perpetrators of brutal acts, is central to the conflicted attitudes of many Acholi towards the rebels.\n\nThe government's response was a scorched-earth policy ordering all Acholis to leave their homes in 48 hours and move to \"protected villages\" beginning in 1996, later called Internally Displaced People's Camps. This further deepened the antagonistic attitude that many Acholi had toward the government, especially as the population continued to be attacked by the LRA even within the \"protected camps.\" The camps were crowded, unsanitary, miserable places to live and have been described as death camps. World Health Organisation data indicated that these camps caused the death of ten times as many people as the LRA.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1997 the Sudanese government of the National Islamic Front began to recede from its previous hard-line stance. Following the 11 September 2001 attacks in the U.S., the relationship between Sudan and Uganda abruptly changed. Cross-border tensions eased as support to proxy forces fell. Some of the hundreds of thousands of civilians displaced by the war began to return to their homes. The number of people displaced by the conflict declined to about half a million, and people began to talk openly of the day when the \"protected camps\" would be disbanded.\n\nIn March 2002, the Uganda People's Defence Force (UPDF) launched a massive military offensive, named \"Operation Iron Fist\", against the LRA bases in southern Sudan, with agreement from the National Islamic Front. This agreement, coupled with the return of Ugandan forces that were deployed in the Democratic Republic of Congo upon the official end of the Second Congo War, created what the Ugandan government felt was an ideal situation in which to end a conflict that had become both an embarrassment and political liability. After several months of uncertainty, LRA forces began crossing back into Uganda and carrying out attacks on a scale and of a brutality not seen since 1995 to 1996, resulting in widespread displacement and suffering in regions, such as Soroti, that had never previously been touched by the insurgency.\n\nA series of local initiatives spearheaded by traditional and religious leaders as well as diplomatic initiatives during these years failed, especially since Kony's negotiating position remained uncertain, but the conflict gained unprecedented international coverage. During a November 2003 field visit to Uganda, United Nations Undersecretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland stated, \"I cannot find any other part of the world that is having an emergency on the scale of Uganda, that is getting such little international attention.\" In December 2003, Ugandan President Museveni referred the LRA to the International Criminal Court (ICC) to determine if the LRA is guilty of international war crimes.\n\nFrom the middle of 2004 on, rebel activity dropped markedly under intense military pressure. The government was also the target of increasingly pointed criticism from the international community for its failure to end the conflict. International aid agencies questioned the Ugandan government's reliance on military force and its commitment to a peaceful resolution. The army also admitted that it had recruited child soldiers who escaped the LRA into the military.\n\nIn mid-September 2005, a band of LRA fighters, led by Vincent Otti, crossed into the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) for the first time. President Museveni declared that, if Congolese authorities did not disarm the LRA combatants, the UPDF would be sent across the border in pursuit. This sparked a diplomatic row between the governments of the DRC and Uganda, with both militaries making a show of force along their border, while the Congolese ambassador to the United Nations sent a letter to the UN Secretary-General demanding that an economic embargo be placed on Uganda in retaliation.\n\nA series of meetings were held in Juba starting in July 2006 between the government of Uganda and the LRA. The talks were mediated by Riek Machar, the Vice President of Southern Sudan, and by the Community of Sant'Egidio. The talks, which resulted in a ceasefire by September 2006, were described as the best chance for a negotiated settlement since the peace initiative of Betty Bigombe in 1994.\n\nThese talks were agreed to after Joseph Kony released a video in May in which he denied committing atrocities and seemed to call for an end to hostilities, in response to an announcement by Museveni that he would guarantee the safety of Kony if peace was agreed to by July. In late June 2006, the Government of Southern Sudan formally invited Uganda to attend peace talks, and on 14 July 2006 talks began in Juba. On 4 August 2006, Vincent Otti declared a unilateral ceasefire and asked the Ugandan government to reciprocate. ICC indictee Raska Lukwiya was killed in battle on 12 August 2006.\n\nThe government and the LRA signed a truce on 26 August 2006. Under the terms of the agreement, LRA forces will leave Uganda and gather in two assembly areas protected by the government of Sudan. The Ugandan government agreed not to attack those areas. LRA rebels had begun gathering in the assembly areas by mid-September. Talks continued to be hindered by demands and counter-demands. Meanwhile, the government began a process of creating \"satellite camps\" to decongest the main IDP camps.\n\nIn broader context, the government of Southern Sudan viewed the talks as a means of ridding itself of a foreign army that was complicating its delicate relationship with the Khartoum government. The request by the Ugandan Government for ICC to suspend war crimes indictments against leaders of the LRA was condemned by international human rights groups but largely supported by leaders and civilians within northern Uganda.\n\nBy mid-2007, thousands of IDPs had moved into the decongestion camps. However, the populace remained cautious about the prospect of a peace deal, with many refusing to return to their ancestral homes before a definitive end to the insurgency.\n\nFollowing a suspension in the peace talks, the Juba Initiative Project enabled the resumption of the talks in May 2007, thanks to the efforts of the United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary-General for LRA-affected areas, Joaquim Chissano. The talks were again mediated by the Government of Southern Sudan, but with the support of the United Nations and logistic facilitation from the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).\n\nOn 20 August 2007, Uganda declared that it was seeking legal advice on setting a war crimes court. In November 2007, an LRA delegation led by Martin Ojul journeyed to Kampala to restate its commitment to a peaceful resolution of the conflict. Ojul later led the delegation on a tour of northern Uganda to meet victims of the insurgency and ask their forgiveness. However, reports surfaced that LRA deputy commander Otti had been executed on or around 8 October 2007 over an internal power struggle with Kony.\n\nIn June 2008, diplomats reported that the Lord's Resistance army had bought new weapons and was recruiting new soldiers, adding 1,000 recruits to the 600 soldiers it already had. At about the same time, Uganda, South Sudan, and Congo-Kinshasa agreed to a plan to crush the movement together; the South Sudanese claimed that the rebels killed 14 of their soldiers on 7 June 2008.\n\nThe LRA was alleged to have killed at least 400 people in attacks on a number of villages in the DR Congo on and after Christmas Day, 2008. Throughout 2009, the LRA was blamed for several attacks in Southern Sudan, DR Congo and Central African Republic. In March 2010 news emerged about a December 2009 massacre in DR Congo perpetrated by the LRA.\n\nIn May 2010, U.S. President Barack Obama signed the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act into law. In October 2011, Obama announced the deployment of 100 U.S. troops to aid other anti-LRA forces in subduing LRA leader Joseph Kony, citing the aforementioned act in a letter to the heads of both houses of Congress.\n\nOn 23 March 2012, the African Union announced its intentions to send an international brigade of 5,000 military troops \"from Uganda, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Congo, countries where Kony's reign of terror has been felt over the years ... to join the hunt for rebel leader Joseph Kony\" and to \"neutralize\" him. According to the statement, \"the mission would commence on 24 March 2012 and the search would last until Kony was caught\", after which the task force would be disbanded. The effort is Ugandan-led and backed by the U.S. with the 100 advisers already there, who are offering advice, intelligence and training, along with equipment. The brigade established its headquarters in Yambio in South Sudan, close to the border with the DRC, and is commanded by a Ugandan officer; a Congolese officer has oversight of intelligence operations.\n\nOn 12 May 2012, Ugandan soldiers with the African Union brigade captured a senior LRA leader in the Central African Republic (CAR), Caesar Achellam, a veteran rebel commander with the rank of Major General. Because he was a leading military strategist for the LRA, Achellam's arrest signified a considerable setback for Joseph Kony's fight to evade capture.\n\nOn 6 June, the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, released an initial report covering the activities of the LRA from 2009 to 2012. The report itself stated that \"at least 45 children have been killed and maimed\" during this time period and at least \"591 children, including 268 girls have been abducted\". Though it was noted by Radhika Coomaraswamy, the UN special representative on children and conflict, that the \"actual numbers of abductions is much higher, these are just the ones we are aware of\". It was also stated in the report that the LRA is currently made up of between 300–500 fighters, with around half of them being children.\n\nThe LRA was reported to be in the East CAR town of Djema in 2012 but forces pursuing the LRA withdrew in April 2013 after the government of the CAR was overthrown by the Séléka Coalition rebels. In November 2013, Kony was reported to be in poor health in the East CAR town of Nzoka and Michel Djotodia, president of the CAR, claimed he was negotiating with Kony to surrender. US officials doubted that Kony genuinely wanted to surrender.\n\nIn early November 2013, suspected LRA militants attacked five villages in the Western Equatoria region of South Sudan. Three people were killed and one wounded, aside from looting the rebels also set fire to several houses.\n\nOn 4 December 2013, 13 LRA militants including senior commander Samuel Kangu were killed in the aftermath of a UPDF ambush in CAR. The rebels were reportedly tracked with the aid of U.S. provided intelligence.\n\nOn 11 December 2013, 19 LRA guerrillas surrendered to African Union troops in Zembio, CAR.\n\nAccording to UN estimates, at least 65 LRA attacks took place in CAR and DRC during the first quarter of 2014 during which 93 people were reportedly abducted and two killed.\n\nOn 7 May 2014, United Nations secretary-general Ban Ki Moon stated that senior LRA commanders were stationed in South Sudan's border areas with Sudan and the Central African Republic.\n\nOn 20 May 2014, delegates from Uganda, DRC, South Sudan and CAR held a three-day conference in South Sudan regarding the LRA insurgency.\n\nOn 13 August 2014, LRA insurgents launched attacks on villages in the vicinity of Billi, DRC, killing 4 people and injuring 2. FARDC troops clashed with the militants, before the later retreated.\n\nOn 23 August 2014, 13 LRA hostages escaped from captivity, six days later 12 more hostages followed suit. The escapees were abducted between 2004 and August 2014, managed to reach Digba and Ango, DRC, respectively, following a FARDC offensive.\n\nBetween 28–31 December 2014, LRA perpetrated three attacks in the area of Dungu, DRC. Two people were wounded in the aftermath of an attack on Faradje, the village of Mangasaba was looted, a merchant from Kiliwa was also robbed by the \nguerrillas.\n\nOn 9 January 2015, LRA's second in command Dominic Ongwen surrendered to U.S. troops stationed in CAR.\n\nOn 15 January 2015, LRA rebels conducted a number of kiddnappings in the villages of Bulumasi and Pangali, Bondo territory, DRC. A total of 10 people were taken hostage during the incident.\n\nOn 21 January 2015, LRA militants killed three FARDC soldiers in the aftermath of an ambush conducted at the town of Nangume in the vicinity of Wando, DRC. Dozens of civilians were wounded, three were abducted and two hundred families were also displaced from the area following raids LRA militants.\n\nOn 5 February 2015, a band of 20 suspected LRA guerrillas abducted 8 people and engaged in looting in the villages of Dizaga and Digba, DRC.\n\nOn 16 February 2015, LRA guerrillas killed three people and injured four others, on the road IV, located in the Dungu territory, DRC.\n\nOn 12 April 2015, a total of 8 FARDC soldiers went missing in action, following a LRA ambush outside the Mangbangu village, DRC. An unidentified corpse was found in the area, a day after the incident.\n\nOn 30 March 2017, the United States Military announced it was ending its anti-LRA campaign, Operation Observant Compass.\n\nOn an unspecified date in April 2017, a United States special forces soldier shot and killed an LRA fighter who drew a weapon on the American. The American had been escorting an African Union peacekeeper when the incident occurred.\n\nOn 19 April 2017, Uganda announced that it would begin withdrawing forces from the Central African Republic where it has been trying to hunt down Joseph Kony in the country for 9 years.\n\nThe insurgency was historically confined to the region known as Acholiland, consisting of the districts of Kitgum, Gulu, and Pader, though since 2002 violence has overflowed into other Ugandan districts. The LRA also operated across the porous border region with Southern Sudan and most recently into the northeastern Ituri Province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The plight of the affected people has received little media coverage in the developed world. Not until April 2004 did the UN Security Council issue a formal condemnation. A 2005 poll of humanitarian professionals, media personalities, academics and activists identified the conflict in the north of Uganda as the second worst \"forgotten\" humanitarian emergency in the world, after the conflicts of the neighbouring DRC.\n\nThe U.S. government estimates that up to 12,000 people have been killed in the violence, with many more dying from disease and malnutrition as a direct result of the conflict. Nearly two million civilians have been forced to flee their homes, living in internally displaced person (IDP) camps and within the safety of larger settlements, sleeping on street corners and in other public spaces. The problems of the camps have been expatiated by the government ordering villagers into the camps on pain of being classified as rebels and on occasion shelling those villages who refused to relocate.\n\nWhile many abductees are taken to carry items looted from raided villages, some are also used as soldiers and sex slaves. The group performs abductions primarily from the Acholi people, who have borne the brunt of the 18-year LRA campaign. The United Nations estimated in the mid-2000s that around 25,000 children have been kidnapped by the LRA since 1987. However, several pieces of research have concluded that the figure was significantly higher. In June 2007, UC Berkeley's Human Rights Center researchers worked with reception centers in northern Uganda to compile a database of 25,000 former abductees that went through reception centers.\n\nBy triangulating data from different sources on the number of former abductees, the research conservatively estimate that the LRA has abducted 24,000 to 38,000 children and 28,000 to 37,000 adults as of April 2006. The research further found that while women represented about a third of all the abductees, they tended to stay longer with the LRA compared to men. Women are forced to serve as sexual and domestic servants. According to a survey of 750 youth in Kitgum and Pader, at least 66,000 youth between the ages of 13 and 30 have been abducted. One-third of all boys and one-sixth of all girls had been taken for at least one day.\n\nOf these, 66% of males were taken for longer than two weeks, while the equivalent number for females was 46%. If a female was gone for more than two weeks, there was a one in four chance that she had not returned. Males were again found to be taken for longer periods of time on average, with two in five males that were abducted for more than two weeks not having returned. The number of abductions was greatest in 2002 and 2003, perhaps in retaliation for Operation Iron Fist. However, the average age of abductees has risen from about 13 in 1994 to nearly 18 in 2004, coinciding with the rise in number, and fall in length, of abductions.\n\nWhile the LRA now appears to consist of less than two thousand combatants that are under intense pressure from the Ugandan military, the government has been unable to end the insurgency to date. Ongoing peace negotiations are complicated by an investigation and trial preparation by the International Criminal Court. Meanwhile, military operation is going on. The conflict continues to slow down Uganda's development efforts, costing the poor country's economy a cumulative total of at least $1.33 billion, which is equivalent to 3% of GDP, or $100 million annually.\n\nAt the height of the conflict, each night, children between the ages of 8 and 14, referred to as \"night commuters\" or \"night dwellers\" would walk up to from IDP camps to larger towns, especially Gulu, in search of safety. To avoid abduction by the LRA, every night as many as 40,000 children fled their homes in the countryside to sleep in the relative safety of towns. Known as \"night commuters\", they seek refuge overnight at churches, hospitals, bus stations and temporary shelters before returning home again each morning.\nBecause of this phenomenon, united under the banner of peace, religious leaders from different denominations staged a one-week solidarity demonstration by sleeping in the streets with the children. This singular act created massive awareness of the conflict to the world.\n\nInitiatives to raise international awareness for these children included the \"GuluWalk\" and the work of the Resolve Uganda. Night commuters are also the subject of documentaries such as \"Stolen Children\", \"War/Dance\", and \"Invisible Children\".\n\nThe \"Invisible Children\" documentary sponsored the Global Night Commute, an event similar to GuluWalk. On 29 April 2006, over 80,000 youths from around the world converged on urban centers in 130 major cities around the world in solidarity with displaced Ugandan children. The Invisible Children organization also raised awareness for those in the Internally Displaced Camps (IDPs) through its \"Displace Me\" event held in 15 cities across the US on 28 April 2007. Over 68,000 people participated in the event which required participants to sleep outside in \"homes\" made out of cardboard, similar to those in the IDPs.\n\nAnother program, The Name Campaign, asks people to wear nameplate necklaces imprinted with the first name of one of the thousands of abducted children as a means of raising public awareness.\n\nDanny Glover and Don Cheadle have both been vocal advocates on behalf of the children of Northern Uganda.\n\nOn 5 March 2012, the Invisible Children organization posted the \"Kony 2012\" video on YouTube which was widely seen. , the film had over 91 million views on video-sharing website YouTube. However, this video came too late, as by this time the LRA was only a shadow of its former self, so it failed to have the relevance it could have had at an earlier time. In the end, it had little effect and there were no policy changes as a result.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28125064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28125064", "title": "Mandé creation myth", "text": "Mandé creation myth\n\nThe Mandé creation myth is the traditional creation myth of the Mandé peoples of southern Mali. The story begins when Mangala, the creator god, tries making a \"balaza\" seed but it failed. Then he made two eleusine seeds of different kinds, which the people of Keita call \"the egg of the world in two twin parts which were to procreate\". Then Mangala made three more pairs of seeds, and each pair became the four elements, the four directions, as corners in the framework of the world's creation. This he folded into a hibiscus seed. The twin pairs of seeds, which are seen as having opposite sex, are referred to as the \"egg\" or \"placenta of the world\". This egg held an additional two pairs of twins, one male and one female, who were the archetype of people.\n\nAmong them was Pemba who wished to dominate and so he left the egg early, ripping a piece of his placenta. Pemba fell through space and his torn placenta became the earth. Because he left the egg prematurely the earth formed from this piece was arid and barren and of no use to Pemba. So Pemba tried to return to the egg, to rejoin his twin and his place in the rest of the placenta. But it was not to be found-Mangala had changed the remaining placenta into the sun. So Pemba stole male seeds from Mangala's clavicle, and took them to the barren earth and planted them there. Only one of them could germinate in the dry earth, a male eleusine seed which grew in the blood of the placenta. But because Pemba had stolen the seed and it germinated in Pemba's own placenta, the earth became impure and the eleusine seed turned red.\n\nFaro, the other male twin, who had assumed the form of twin fish, was sacrificed to atone for Pemba and purify the earth. Faro was cut into sixty pieces which fell to the earth where they became trees. Mangala restored Faro to life giving him now the form of a human, and sent him down to earth in an ark made from his placenta. With him came four pairs of male and four pairs of female twins who became the original ancestors of mankind, all made from Faro's placenta. The ark also held all the animals and plants, which also carried the male and female life force. Sourakata followed with the first sacred drum made of the sacrificed Faro's skull which he played to bring rain. When the rain did not come, the ancestral smith came to earth and with his hammer, he struck a rock and then the rain came.\n\nFaro created all the world that mankind has come to know from the descendants of Mangala's original egg seeds. He caused the land to flood to wash away the impure seed of his brother, Pemba. From this flood, only the good were saved, sheltered by Faro's ark.\n\n"}
{"id": "18491334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18491334", "title": "Mesrovb Jacob Seth", "text": "Mesrovb Jacob Seth\n\nMesrovb Jacob Seth (born 15 March 1871 in Jolfa - died 31 October 1939 in Calcutta) was an author, historian and school master of Classical Armenian at the Armenian College and Philanthropic Academy, Kolkata.\n\nSeth went to India for studies and was educated at the Armenian College, Calcutta. He attained success as a scholar, especially of classical Armenian, his favourite subject, of which he was an ardent lover and noted exponent.\n\nAlthough engaged in business, he considered this occupation a means of livelihood and devoted almost his entire attention to his literary activities. He displayed extraordinary aptitude for and interest in historical and antiquarian research and for many decades engaged himself energetically in the study of old manuscripts, letters, epitaphs and memorial tablets in churches and cemeteries throughout India and presenting these collectively and intelligently to his compatriots and to those interested in these studies.\n\nDuring his lifetime he wrote and published the following books/papers:\n\n"}
{"id": "47771425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47771425", "title": "Miklos Veto", "text": "Miklos Veto\n\nMiklós Vető (born 1936 in Budapest) is a Hungarian-born French philosopher. A historian of German Idealism, especially Schelling, he lives in Paris. As an author, he has been largely collected by libraries.\n\nProfessor Vető studied law at the University of Szeged. Because of his participation in the Revolution of 1956 he had to flee Hungary. As a refugee he was admitted to France in 1957. He studied philosophy first at the Sorbonne and then Oxford. He taught at Marquette and Yale Universities in the United States, the University of Abidjan in the Ivory Coast and Rennes and Poitiers Universities in France. He was made Professor Emeritus in 2005.\n\nVető is an external member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and a member of the Catholic Academy of France and the Academy of Messina. He was awarded a Doctorate Honoris Causa by the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, Budapest and the University of Szeged. He is Honorary Professor at the Australian Catholic University, Melbourne and an officer of the National Order of the Ivory Coast.\n\nVető's philosophy is coordinated along three interrelated foci: 1. The History of Philosophy, particularly German Idealism (Kant, Hegel, Schelling). This is the central thread of his philosophical research. 2. The Philosophy of Religion, understood as the philosophical investigation of the intelligibility of Christian spirituality and theology. 3. A Constructive Metaphysics, concerned with the \"enlargement\" of philosophical reflection by intercourse with themes drawn from religion, art and ordinary experience.\n\nFoci 1 and 2 have involved parallel developments through his career, whereas focus 3 has appeared central in publications since 2002.\n\nLA MÉTAPHYSIQUE RELIGIEUSE DE SIMONE WEIL, Paris, 1971 ; 3. ed. Paris, 2014. English translation : THE RELIGIOUS METAPHYSICS OF SIMONE WEIL, Albany, 1994. Translations in Italian, Japanese and Hungarian.\n\nF.W.J. SCHELLING : STUTTGARTER PRIVATVORLESUNGEN. Critical edition, Turin, 1973, 2. edition Paris, 2009.\n\nLE FONDEMENT SELON SCHELLING, Paris, 1977, 2. ed. Paris, 2002.\n\nLA PENSÉE DE JONATHAN EDWARDS, Paris, 1987, 2. ed. Paris, 2007. English translation : THE THOUGHT OF JONATHAN EDWARDS, EUGENE (OREGON) (IN PRINT)\n\nÉTUDES SUR L’IDÉALISME ALLEMAND, Paris, 1998.\n\nDE KANT À SCHELLING. LES DEUX VOIES DE L’IDÉALISME ALLEMAND I-II. Krisis, Grenoble, 1998–2000 (German translation in preparation).\n\nLE MAL. ESSAIS ET ÉTUDES, Paris, 2000.\n\nFICHTE. DE L’ACTION À L’IMAGE, Paris, 2001.\n\nLA NAISSANCE DE LA VOLONTÉ, Paris, 2002, also a Brazilian translation\n\nPHILOSOPHIE ET RELIGION. Paris, 2006.Translation in Hungarian.\n\nNOUVELLES ÉTUDES SUR L’IDÉALISME ALLEMAND. Paris, 2009.\n\nL’ÉLARGISSEMENT DE LA MÉTAPHYSIQUE, Paris, 2012, English translation:\nTHE EXPANSION OF METAPHYSICS. Eugene (Oregon), (in preparation).\n\nEXPLORATIONS MÉTAPHYSIQUES, Paris, 2012.\n\nGABRIEL MARCEL, Paris, 2014.\n\nDE WHITEHEAD A MARION. ECLATS DE PHILOSOPHIE CONTEMPORAINE, Paris, 2015.\n\nPIERRE DE BÉRULLE. LES THÈMES MAJEURS DE SA PENSÉE. PARIS, 2016.\n\nLA VOLONTÉ SELON FÉNELON, Paris (in print).\n\nAlso over 400 other publications: articles, prefaces, book reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "467367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467367", "title": "Normal school", "text": "Normal school\n\nA normal school is the historical term for an institution created to train high school graduates to be teachers by educating them in the norms of pedagogy and curriculum. Most such schools, where they still exist, are now denominated \"teacher-training colleges\" or \"teachers' colleges\" and may be organized as part of a comprehensive university. According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", normal schools in the United States and Canada trained teachers for primary schools, while in continental Europe, the equivalent colleges educated teachers for primary, secondary and tertiary schools.\n\nIn 1685, St. Jean-Baptiste de La Salle, founder of the Institute of the Brothers of the Christian Schools, founded what is generally considered the first normal school, the \"École Normale\", in Reims, Champagne, France. The term \"normal\" herein refers to the goal of these institutions to instill and reinforce particular \"norms\" within students. \"Norms\" included historical behavioral norms of the time, as well as norms that reinforced targeted societal values, ideologies and dominant narratives in the form of curriculum.\n\nEducating teachers was of great importance in the newly industrialized European economies and their need for a reliable, reproducible and uniform work force. The process of instating such norms within students depended upon the creation of the first uniform, formalized national educational curriculum. Thus, normal schools, as the teacher training schools, were tasked with both developing this new curriculum and developing the techniques through which teachers would instill these ideas, behaviors and values in the minds of their students.\n\nThe first public normal school in the United States was founded in Concord, Vermont, by Samuel Read Hall in 1823 to train teachers. In 1839, another normal school was established in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; it evolved into Framingham State University. The first modern teacher training school in China was established by Qing educator Sheng Xuanghuai in 1895 as the normal school of the Nanyang Public School (now Shanghai Jiao Tong University) in Shanghai, China.\n\nMany comprehensive public or state-supported universities, such as the University of California, Los Angeles in the United States and Beijing Normal University in China, were established and operated as normal schools before expanding their faculties and organizing as research universities. Some of these universities, particularly in Asia, retain the word \"Normal\" in their name to recognize their historical purpose. In Canada, most normal schools were eventually assimilated into a university as its faculty of education, offering a one or two-year Bachelor of Education degree. Such a degree requires at least three, but usually four, years of prior undergraduate study.\n\nThe term \"normal school\" originated in the early 16th century from the French \"école normale\". The French concept of an \"école normale\" was to provide a model school with model classrooms to teach model teaching practices to its student teachers. The children being taught, their teachers, and the teachers of the teachers were often together in the same building. Although a laboratory school, it was the official school for the children—primary or secondary.\n\nIn Finland, normal schools are under national university administration, whereas most schools are administered by the local municipality. Teacher aspirants do most of their compulsory trainee period in normal schools and teach while being supervised by a senior teacher.\n\nIn France, a two-tier system developed since the Revolution: primary school teachers were educated at départemental \"écoles normales\", high school teachers at the Écoles normales supérieures. Nowadays all teachers are educated in (Graduate School of Teaching and Education). The Écoles Normales Supérieures in France and the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa in Italy no longer specialize in teacher training.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, teacher training colleges were once separate institutions, and many such colleges adopted the title \"College of Higher Education\". A restructuring of higher education in the UK during the 1980s resulted in many of these adopting the status of \"university\". The University of Chester traces its roots back to 1839 as the earliest training college in the United Kingdom. Others were established by religious institutions and were single-sex until World War II. Since then, they have either become multi-discipline universities in their own right (e.g. University of Chester, St Mary's University, Twickenham, Edge Hill University) or merged with another university to become its faculty of education (e.g. Moray House).\n\nIn Wales, there were two colleges which included the word 'Normal' in their name: the first being 'The Normal College, Swansea' where the eminent mathematician John Viriamu Jones was educated and the second was The Normal College, Bangor (founded 1858), which survived until 1996, when it became part of University of Wales Bangor. The latter was one of the last institutions in the UK to retain the word \"Normal\" in its name.\n\nIn Lithuania, Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences (LEU), former Vilnius Pedagogical University (VPU) is the main teachers' training institution, established in 1935.\n\nIn Mainland China, the \"normal school\" terminology is still preserved in the official English names of former normal schools established in the late 19th and early 20th century, with Beijing Normal University being the oldest such school to have kept the term. The Chinese term \"normal university\" (, abbreviated 师大; \"shīdà\") refers to a modern comprehensive university established as a normal school in the early twentieth century. These \"normal universities\" are usually controlled by the national or provincial government. In 1895, Qing banking tycoon and educator Sheng Xuanghuai gained approval from the Guangxu Emperor to establish the Nanyang Public School in Shanghai, China. This comprehensive institution included the first normal school on the Chinese mainland. Since 1949, many former normal schools in China have developed into comprehensive research universities. As of 2012, East China Normal University and Beijing Normal University, both members of the national government's Project 985 program to build world-class universities, have been ranked the top two among the mainland Chinese universities that originated as normal schools.\n\nIn Taiwan, three universities served as national normal universities historically. Located in Taipei, Changhua, and Kaohsiung, the schools prepared secondary school teachers; these schools' missions have expanded since to make them \"de facto\" liberal arts universities. Ten Taiwanese teachers' colleges (, abbreviated 師院; shīyuàn, \"normal colleges\") originated as normal schools established by the Japanese. After the end of World War 2 these were reorganized as provincial normal schools by the Kuomintang and then as provincial teachers' colleges. With the arrival of pluralistic democracy in the early 1990s these colleges came under national control, and by the mid-2000s (decade) all had been renamed as \"universities of education\" (教育大學) or simply \"universities\" to signify their more comprehensive missions.\n\nIn Naga City, the Philippines, one can find the oldest normal school for girls in the Far East, the Universidad de Santa Isabel. It is a sectarian school run by the Daughters of Charity. The first secular normal school was founded in 1901 by the Thomasites, the Philippine Normal School. It was converted into a college in 1949 and was elevated to its present university status in 1992 as the Philippine Normal University. In 2009, it was named National Center of Excellence for Teacher Education by virtue of Republic Act 9647. In Iloilo City, the West Visayas State University was originally established as a normal school in 1902; in 1994, it was recognized by the Philippines government as a Center for Teaching Excellence.\n\nIn Malaysia, the Ministry of Education runs a total of 27 Institutes of Teacher Education (ITEs), which were formerly known as Teacher Training Colleges. These ITEs function primarily to educated both undergraduate and postgraduate teacher trainees. The ministry bureau responsible for overseeing them is the Teacher Education Division. The ITEs also run in-service teacher training and continuous professional development among qualified teachers.\n\nIn New Zealand, the term \"normal school\" can refer to a primary or intermediate school used for teacher training, such as the Epsom Normal Primary School (in Auckland), Kelburn Normal School, Palmerston North Intermediate Normal School, Papakura Normal School or Tahuna Normal Intermediate School. They were associated with a teachers' training college, such as the Auckland Teachers' Training College, which became colleges of education that trained secondary as well as primary and intermediate school teachers.\n\nMico University College is the oldest teacher training institute in the English-speaking world outside of Europe. It was founded under Lady Mico Charity in 1834 by Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton \"to afford the benefit of education and training to the black and coloured population.\" Today, it offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in a variety of education and liberal arts disciplines.\n\nIn 1823, Reverend Samuel Read Hall founded the first normal school in the United States, the Columbian School in Concord, Vermont. Influenced by similar academies in Prussia and elsewhere in Europe, American normal schools were intended to improve the quality of the burgeoning common school system by producing more qualified teachers. Hall also founded the first normal schools in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. The school was renamed Concord Academy before closing after seven years.\n\nSixteen years after Columbian School had been founded in Vermont, the first state-funded normal school was founded in the neighboring state of Massachusetts, thanks largely to the efforts of education reformers such as Horace Mann and James G. Carter. Shortly after its founding that school moved from its original site of Lexington to Framingham. Today, Framingham State University is recognized as the oldest, continuously operated public normal school in the United States. Anna Brackett attended this University and was a teacher - later to become the first woman principal of a teacher's college.\n\nThe State Normal School in New Britain was founded in 1849. It was the first training school for teachers in the state of Connecticut. The school is now Central Connecticut State University.\n\nThe first normal school west of the Appalachian Mountains in the United States was the Michigan State Normal School, now Eastern Michigan University. It was created by legislative action in 1849 and opened in Ypsilanti, Michigan, in 1853.\n\nWhen the college was established in 1854 as the Rhode Island State Normal School, its goal was to provide teacher preparation to young people from Rhode Island. With the dedication of a new building in 1898, the institution began a period of steady growth, evolving first into a teachers' college, the Rhode Island College of Education. In the 1958-59 academic year the college moved to its current Mount Pleasant campus, and in 1959 was renamed Rhode Island College to reflect its new purpose as a comprehensive institution of higher education. With an enrollment predominantly from Rhode Island and nearby Massachusetts and Connecticut, the institution historically has served as a \"College of Opportunity\" for first-generation college students.\n\nSalem Normal School, now Salem State University, was founded in 1854 as the fourth Normal School in Massachusetts. In 1853, the General Court authorized the founding of a normal school in Essex County. Proposals were received from Salem, Chelsea, Groveland, and North Andover. Salem was selected due to many factors including the city's historical and commercial significance and need for local teacher education.\n\nPrior to the founding of the normal school, Salem women had few opportunities to receive teacher training and the Salem school system was replete with funding, attendance, and teacher compensation problems. It was assumed that by training women as teachers, they could be hired at a lower salary than male teachers, thus alleviating the city's public school budget and teacher compensation challenges.\n\nThe original location was at the corner of Broad and Summer Streets, with the building's dedication held on September 14, 1854. Richard Edwards, a graduate of Bridgewater Normal School (now Bridgewater State University), was the first president of Salem Normal School.\n\nThe State of Illinois passed an act to establish a normal school on 18 February 1857, and proposals were submitted to locate the new school in Batavia, Bloomington, Peoria, and Washington (in Tazewell County). Bids were opened by the State Board of Education in Peoria on 7 May 1857 and the offer from Bloomington, Illinois, was accepted. The normal school was located near the village of North Bloomington, which later was renamed \"Normal\" in honor of the school. The school, originally known as Illinois State Normal University (ISNU), is now known as Illinois State University.\n\nHarris–Stowe State University, now a state university in Missouri, was founded by the St. Louis public school system in 1857 and claims to be the oldest normal school west of the Mississippi River.\n\nThe first state-run normal school on the West Coast was the Minns Evening Normal School, created in 1857 to train teachers for San Francisco's schools. It was taken over by the State of California in 1862 and became the California State Normal School (now San Jose State University).\n\nThe first state-authorized normal college to open west of the Mississippi River was Winona State Normal School, now called Winona State University, which opened in 1858. Its creation was one of the first acts of the newly formed Minnesota Legislature.\n\n1861 - Oswego Primary Teachers School, Oswego, New York\n\nEstablished as Oswego Normal School, the Oswego State Normal School was founded by Edward Austin Sheldon, and recognized as a state school in 1866 by New York State becoming the Oswego State Normal and Training School. The school was part of the training program Sheldon devised to introduce the Pestalozzi method of education to the schools of the city of Oswego, the first time the method had ever been used in the United States. Sheldon's school became Oswego State Teachers College in 1942, and was upgraded again to a liberal arts college in 1962, becoming known as Oswego State University.\n\nEstablished in 1864, Farmington State Normal School was the first public establishment of higher education in the state of Maine. In 1945, the school was renamed \"Farmington State Teachers College\". The Farmington State Teachers College was acquired by the University of Maine system in 1968 and is today the University of Maine at Farmington.\n\nEstablished in 1865 by The Baltimore Association for the Moral and Educational Improvement of the Colored People, School #1 opened on on January 9, 1865 in the African Baptist Church in Crane’s Building on the corner of Calvert and Saratoga streets. In 1867, with the aid of the Freedmen’s Bureau, the Quakers of England and others, the Baltimore Association purchased and renovated the Old Friends Meeting House at the corner of Saratoga and Courtland streets to house the Baltimore Normal School for Colored Teachers. The school moved to Bowie, MD in 1911, changing its name to the Maryland Normal and Industrial School at Bowie in 1914. Today, this school exists as Bowie State University. \n\nWhile the state created the Maryland State Normal School in the state constitution of 1864, MSNS wouldn't open its doors in Baltimore until January 15, 1865. The school was moved to Towson, Maryland in 1915. In 1935, it was renamed the State Teachers College at Towson, and by 1963 it was changed to a liberal arts school and was renamed Towson State College. In 1976 it was renamed Towson State University and by 1997 it was Towson University.\n\nNebraska State Normal School was chartered on June 20, 1867. The action by the Nebraska legislature made it the first state-supported college in Nebraska with the first classes held on October 24, 1867. The name changed to Nebraska State Teachers College at Peru in 1921, and in 1949 it changed to Peru State Teachers College. The current name of Peru State College was adopted in 1963.\n\nMankato Normal School was the second normal school in Minnesota. Students were usually 17–19 years old when they entered. The student body, which peaked at about 900 in 1920-21, was approximately three-fourths female. In 1921 the school evolved into Minnesota State University, Mankato.\n\nFlorence Normal School is one of many state normal schools that developed into four-year state teachers' colleges and eventually into comprehensive state universities. This is the site of the first state-supported normal school established south of the Ohio River and now part of the University of North Alabama.\n\nIn 1873, the State Normal School and University for the Education of the Colored Teachers and Students, informally called the Huntsville Normal School, was founded at a site which is today part of Huntsville, Alabama. In 1878, the name changed to State Normal and Industrial School. In 1885 the name was changed again, to State Normal and Industrial School of Huntsville. In 1890, the post office of Normal, Alabama was established. In 1896, its name was changed to The State Agricultural and Mechanical College for Negroes, and in 1919, the State Agricultural and Mechanical Institute for Negroes. In 1948 it was renamed the Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical College, in 1949 Alabama A&M College, and in 1969 Alabama A&M University.\n\nOpened as Iowa State Normal School in 1876, the school took over the facilities that the state of Iowa originally built to be home to orphans of its Civil War Veterans. The school changed to Iowa State Teachers College in 1909, then State College of Iowa in 1961 before becoming the University of Northern Iowa in 1967.\n\nThe first normal school in what is now considered the Southwest was opened in 1879 as Sam Houston Normal Institute (now Sam Houston State University).\n\nFrom its founding in 1884 until 1944, Northwestern State University of Louisiana at Natchitoches was the Louisiana State Normal School until 1918, Louisiana State Normal College from 1918 to 1944.\n\nMillersville Normal School was founded in 1855 as the first normal school in Pennsylvania. Over the years it has changed its name a number of times eventually becoming Millersville University of Pennsylvania.\n\nThe school was established March 7, 1887 by the North Carolina General Assembly to train Lumbee Indian teachers. Today, it is The University of North Carolina at Pembroke.\n\nIn 1887, the State Normal College for Colored Students was founded in Tallahassee, Florida; Tallahassee was chosen because it had the state's highest proportion of blacks, having been the center of Florida's slave trade before the Civil War. The founding date reflects the Florida Constitution of 1885, in effect until 1967, which prohibed racial integration in education. In 1891 the legislature changed its name to State Normal and Industrial College for Colored Students, and in 1909 to Florida Agricultural and Mechanical College for Negroes. Today it is the Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University, commonly known as FAMU.\n\nThe Colorado legislature passed the controversial Senate Bill 104 to establish the Colorado State Normal School, which Governor Job. A Cooper signed into law on April 1, 1889. Located in Greeley, Colorado, the school opened on October 6, 1890 to train qualified teachers for the state's public schools, with a staff of four instructors and 96 students, offering certification after completing a two-year course. In 1911, the school's name was changed to Colorado State Teachers College and offered bachelor's degrees after completion of a four-year course. In 1935, the name changed again to Colorado State College of Education, recognizing the graduate program started in 1913. In 1957, the name was shortened to Colorado State College to recognize the further growth of programs and offerings. Finally, in 1970, the name was changed to the current University of Northern Colorado, with satellite centers in Loveland, Colorado Springs and the Lowry neighborhood of Denver.\n\nA normal school founded as Watauga Academy in 1899, the institution was named Appalachian State Normal School in between 1925 and 1929. Today, it is known as Appalachian State University and has evolved into a comprehensive four-year university, including the Reich College of Education. For details, see History of Appalachian State University.\n\nThe Lowry Normal School Bill of 1910 authorized two new normal schools in Ohio—one in the northwestern part of the state (now Bowling Green State University) and another in the northeastern part (now Kent State University).\n\nState Senator A. M. Stevenson, Colorado, 1885 introduced a bill for a State Normal School. The bill was rejected. The bill revived in 1896. State Representative C. T. Rawalt succeeded in appropriating 2500 dollars for land in 1901. Gov. James B. Orman approved the bill April 16, 1901. Trustees were elected and plans made in Gunnison, Colorado in the northeast part of town. Grounds were surveyed and fenced, shade trees added, drives laid out, and the lawns seeded. 12 cents remained of the 2500 dollars allotted. In 1903 a bill for 18,000 dollars for maintenance was vetoed by Gov. J. H. Peabody. May 5, 1909, 50,000 dollars was appropriated. October 25, 1910 the cornerstone of North Hall was laid for the State Normal School of Colorado. C. A. Hollingshead was principal of the two year normal advanced and four year normal elementary (High school). In 1916 the name was changed to Western State College of Colorado. August 1, 2012, John Hickenlooper enacted the new name Western State Colorado University.\n\nThe Calgary Normal School in Calgary was initially located at 412 - 7 Street SW in Calgary in what is called the McDougall School founded shortly after Alberta became a province in 1905. Its history is part of the founding of the University of Calgary in 1966. Another Normal school was founded at Camrose (also called Rosehaven Normal school) in 1912. The Edmonton Normal School, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada was opened in 1920 in Edmonton, Alberta. \n\nIn 1945 all normal schools in Alberta were merged into the University of Alberta's faculty of education.\n\nIn 1901 the first Provincial Normal School in British Columbia was opened in Vancouver. Classes commenced on 9 January 1901. In January 1909, the Provincial Normal school moved into a new facility and its own building located at 11th and Cambie (now part of City Square Mall). In 1915 a second Provincial Normal School opened in Victoria. Trainee teachers from greater Vancouver and the lower Mainland attended the Normal School in Vancouver. Students from Vancouver Island and students outside the Lower Mainland, that is, from the Upper Fraser Valley and communities in the interior of the province – enrolled in the Normal School in Victoria. That school was originally located in Victoria High School and later in its own building which is now part of Camosun College. In 1956 the responsibility for provincial teacher training was transferred to The University of British Columbia.\n\nCentral Normal School was founded in 1882 in Winnipeg. In 1905-06 a new building was constructed at 442 William Avenue. It was one of six Normal Schools in Manitoba, along with Brandon Normal School (1129 Queens Street, Brandon), Dauphin, Manitou, Portage la Prairie, and St. Boniface. Central Normal School moved to a facility in southwest Winnipeg In 1947. In the autumn of 1958, it was renamed the Manitoba Teachers' College. It was moved to the University of Manitoba in 1965, becoming its Faculty of Education.\n\nThe New Brunswick Teachers' College was a normal school in Fredericton, New Brunswick which granted teaching certificates. It was founded on February 10, 1848 as the Provincial Normal School with Joseph Marshall de Brett Maréchal, Baron d'Avray as the first principal. The institution changed its name in 1947 to become the New Brunswick Teachers' College. It closed in 1973 and its staff were integrated into the faculties of education at the Université de Moncton and the University of New Brunswick.\n\nThe Wesleyan Normal Day School was founded in 1852 by the Wesleyans under the Newfoundland School Society. This institution continued until 1901. In 1910 a normal school was established in St. John's by the Church of England which continued for a number of years. In 1921 the first non-denominational normal school was initiated and was discontinued in 1932. It was reorganized in 1934 as a department of the Memorial University College. Later in 1949, the institution's name was changed to Memorial University of Newfoundland.\n\nThe Nova Scotia Teachers College in Truro began in 1855 as the Provincial Nova Scotia Normal School opened in Truro, Nova Scotia. The school was closed in 1997 and the program essentially consolidated with other provincial universities including Acadia University, Mount St. Vincent, St. Francis Xavier, and Sainte-Anne.\n\nThanks largely in part to the effort of education reformer Egerton Ryerson, the Ontario Normal School system came into being beginning in Toronto in 1847.\n\nThe London Normal School was located at 165 Elmwood Avenue in London, Ontario and commenced classes on February 1, 1900. By 1958 the building was no longer adequate and was moved to a new location on Western Rd. In 1973, London Teacher's College (as it was then called) (Elborn) merged with Althouse College to form the Faculty of Education at the University of Western Ontario.\n\nThe North Bay Normal School, a teacher training school, was established in 1909 in North Bay Ontario to meet the needs of teacher education in Ontario's North. The school was renamed North Bay Teachers' College in 1953, and became Nipissing University College's faculty of education in August 1973. After the university received a prestigious award in 2010, the Faculty of Education was renamed the Schulich School of Education. See Nipissing University.\n\nA school of pedagogy was formed in association with Toronto Normal School, offering advanced level courses suitable for high-school teachers. In 1897, the school was moved to Hamilton and renamed Ontario Normal College. The college closed in 1906 and the training was taken over by the faculties of education at the University of Toronto and Queen's University in Kingston.\n\nThe Ottawa Normal School was built in 1874 and opened in 1875. It was located at 195 Elgin Street. It was renamed the Ottawa Teacher's College in 1953, and was subsequently merged into the Faculty of Education of the University of Ottawa in 1974.\n\nThe Peterborough Normal School in Peterborough was officially opened on September 15, 1908 and operated until the late 1960s.\n\nThe Stratford Normal School was founded at 270 Water Street in 1908 in Stratford, Ontario. Its emphasis was primarily for training teachers for rural conditions. Its name was changed to Stratford Teachers' College in 1953 and closed its doors in 1973 having trained close to 14,000 teachers. The site was maintained, and was home to the Stratford Perth Museum for a number of years, being renamed the Discovery Centre. The museum moved to another location, however, and the building is now leased by the Stratford Shakespeare Festival, and has been named once again the Normal School Building.\n\nThe Prince Edward Island Normal School has its origin in 1856 on the grounds of Prince of Wales College in Charlottetown, P.E.I.\n\nThe Saskatchewan Normal School, also once known as the Regina Normal School, was founded as early as 1890 in Regina moving into its first permanent structure in January, 1914. In 1964 it was transferred to University of Saskatchewan Regina Campus and in 1974 becoming part of the University of Regina. Another normal school was founded in the early 1920s in Moose Jaw and was later transferred into the Regina campus in 1959.\n\nThe Saskatoon Normal School in Saskatoon was founded in 1912 and served until 1953. It has now been integrated with the Faculty of Education at University of Saskatchewan.\n\nEarly normal schools in Latin America include several in Mexico, such as the \"Escuela Normal de Enseñanza Mutua de Oaxaca\" (1824), the \"Escuela Normal Mixta de San Luis Potosí\" (1849), the Normal de Guadalajara (1881), and the \"Escuela Normal para Profesores de Instrucción Primaria\" (1887). The Mexican normal school system was nationalized and reorganized by the \"Secretaría de Educación Pública\" (Secretariat of Public Education) under José Vasconcelos in 1921.\n\nPerhaps the oldest continually operating normal school in Latin America is the Escuela Normal Superior José Abelardo Núñez, founded in Santiago, Chile, in 1842 as the Escuela de Preceptores de Santiago under the direction of the emininent Argentine educator, writer, and politician Domingo Faustino Sarmiento. The first normal school in the Dominican Republic was founded in 1875 by Puerto Rican educator and activist Eugenio María de Hostos.\n\nIn Argentina, normal schools were founded starting in 1852, and still exist today and carry that name. Teachers' training is considered higher education and requires a high school diploma, but normal schools have the particularity of granting five year teacher degrees for primary school or four year degrees for kindergarten, while at the same time hosting secondary, primary school students, and kindergarten and pre-school. Teachers-to-be do intense practical training in the schools annexed to the higher education section. This is the main difference with other teachers' training institutions called Instituto de Formación Docente and with universities that grant teaching degrees.\n\nOther Latin American nations have long traditions of normal schools. In Panama, the Escuela Normal Juan Demóstenes Arosemena was founded in Santiago de Veraguas, Panama in 1938. In Colombia, normal schools were primarily associated with women's religious schools although in modern times have admitted men, thus forming \"escuelas normales mixtas\" (mixed normal schools). In Paraguay, they are known as Instituto de Formación Docente.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48536242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48536242", "title": "Pozderac family", "text": "Pozderac family\n\nThe Pozderac family was an influential Bosniak family from Bosnia and Herzegovina. They have been called the \"Bosniak Kennedy's\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56052591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56052591", "title": "Reclaim The Records", "text": "Reclaim The Records\n\nReclaim The Records is a non-profit organization and activist group that advocates for greater transparency and accessibility for genealogical, archival, and vital records in the United States. They use state Freedom of Information requests and lawsuits to force government agencies, archives, and libraries to provide copies of previously inaccessible records to the public. Reclaim The Records then digitizes and publishes the records online for free public use, without any copyrights or usage restrictions.\n\nReclaim The Records is the first genealogical organization to successfully sue a government agency for the release of records back to the public. As of December 2017, the organization has acquired and freely published more than twenty million records, most of which had never been open to the public before in any location or format, or else were only available in very outdated formats such as microfiche in limited locations but had never gone online before.\n\nReclaim The Records was founded by Brooke Schreier Ganz, a technologist and long-time amateur genealogist. While living in California, Ganz had become increasingly frustrated by the lack of online access to New York City and New York State archival records. Almost none of the New York records had been put online by their respective city or state government archives or agencies, nor were the records available to search or to view through any genealogy websites, whether for-profit or non-profit. A small subset of the basic vital records index data was available to the public, but only if one was physically onsite in New York records repositories, and only in outdated formats such as microfilm and microfiche.\n\nAfter unsuccessfully attempting to use New York City's open data law, Local Law 11 of 2012, to compel the publication of the basic indices to these records, Ganz decided to use the state's Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) to force the release of copies. She made a FOIL request of the New York City Municipal Archives in January 2015, which was initially agreed to and then denied by the city. This led to an Article 78 lawsuit in the Supreme Court of New York that August. Not wanting to sue the city with just her name on the case, Ganz created Reclaim The Records as an organization so that they could both be listed as Petitioner on the case. The city settled the case five days before they were due in court, and Ganz won the first public copies of the index to New York City marriage licenses for 1908-1929 on 48 rolls of microfilm. This was the first time that an American genealogist had ever successfully sued for the return of genealogical records to the public. The case proved that the Municipal Archives' holding were indeed subject to New York's FOIL. \n\nIn January 2016, Reclaim The Records filed another FOIL request that became another Article 78 lawsuit, this time filed against the New York City Clerk's Office. They too settled with the group, providing 110 reels of microfilm and copies of a digital database they had created for in-house use. The city also paid the organization's attorneys fees.\n\nIn November 2016, Reclaim The Records filed a third lawsuit under the Missouri Sunshine Law against the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services for access to the basic index to births and deaths in the state. During the course of the lawsuit, it was discovered that the Missouri DHSS had been selling this same data to researchers for years, but was unwilling to provide copies to the public. The case is still pending.\n\nReclaim The Records was formally incorporated in December 2016 and was granted 501(c)(3) non-profit status by the IRS in February 2017.\n\n\"*awarded to the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services, due to information uncovered during Reclaim The Records' Sunshine Law requests and subsequent lawsuit against the agency\"\n\n"}
{"id": "600431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600431", "title": "Rescue – The British Archaeological Trust", "text": "Rescue – The British Archaeological Trust\n\nRescue – The British Archaeological Trust is a charitable organisation in the United Kingdom. It was founded in 1971 as a pressure group by a team including the archaeologists Margaret Ursula Jones and Phillip A. Barker.\n\nThe Trust campaigns for government funds to permit the excavation of archaeological sites in advance of road-building, construction or other development. Specific actions include opposing the planned tunnel near the site of Stonehenge, proposed in 2017, claiming that it could threaten the site's UNESCO heritage status, and criticising the use of metal detectors to discover items of cultural significance.\n"}
{"id": "6731716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6731716", "title": "Richard Grunberger", "text": "Richard Grunberger\n\nRichard Grunberger (7 March 1924 Vienna, Austria – 15 February 2005) was a British historian, who specialised in study of the Third Reich.\n\nHe was born in Austria to Jewish parents. After the 1938 Anschluss with Hitler's Germany, he was put on the first Kindertransport train to leave Vienna. He was initially housed in a refugee camp at Lowestoft in England. After this he lived with a Jewish family, who were West End tailors in London. Grunberger entered their tailoring business. His desire for education however led to his taking A levels at Birkbeck college. He gained an exhibition scholarship in history at King's College London.\n\nWhen he went to the Wiener Library in London, he expressed to a friend his frustration at the absence of a book that held together the masses of documentation surrounding Nazism and 20th-century Germany. A friend asked why he did not write one, and so he did. The product was \"A Social History of the Third Reich\", first published in 1971 by Weidenfeld & Nicolson. It has since become a significant text for studying the social history of Nazi Germany in schools and at undergraduate level.\n\nInitially, much of Grunberger's leisure time in Britain was taken up by the communist youth group Young Austria. In spite of this, his political outlook was social democratic.\n"}
{"id": "17266612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17266612", "title": "Rufina Amaya", "text": "Rufina Amaya\n\nRufina Amaya (1943 – March 6, 2007) was the sole survivor of the El Mozote massacre on December 11 and December 12, 1981, in the Salvadoran department of Morazán during the Salvadoran Civil War. Her testimony of the attacks, reported shortly afterward by two American reporters but called into question by the U.S. journalism community as well as by the U.S. and Salvadoran governments, was instrumental in the eventual investigation by the United Nations Commission on the Truth for El Salvador after the end of the war. The investigation led to the November 1992 exhumation of bodies buried at the site and the commission's conclusion that Amaya's testimony had accurately represented the events.\n\nHidden in a tree to which she had run while soldiers were distracted, Amaya watched and listened as government soldiers raped women, then killed men, women, and children by machine-gunning them, then burning their bodies. Amaya lost not only her neighbors, but also her husband, Domingo Claros, whose decapitation she saw; her 9-year-old son, Cristino, who cried out to her, \"Mama, they’re killing me. They’ve killed my sister. They’re going to kill me.\"; and her daughters María Dolores, María Lilian, and María Isabel, ages 5 years, 3 years, and 8 months old. The only one of her children with Claros who was not killed in the massacre was their daughter Fidelia, who was not in the village at the time.\n\nFollowing the massacre, Amaya became a refugee for a time in the neighboring country of Honduras, where in 1985 she married fellow refugee José Natividad, with whom she had four children, divorcing within two years after the marriage. She returned to El Salvador in 1990 and became a lay minister for the Roman Catholic Church. By March 2000, Amaya was living near the Morazán village of Segundo Montes, Morazán, established by fellow repatriated exiles in memory of a Jesuit priest and scholar killed during the war in a mass assassination of priests by government forces at the Universidad Centroamericana \"José Simeón Cañas\" (UCA).\n\nAmaya died of a stroke in a San Salvador hospital at the age of 64, on March 6, 2007, following a long illness. She was survived by her daughter Fidelia; her daughter Marta, from her second marriage; and by an adopted son, Walter Amaya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6660125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6660125", "title": "Ruth Dudley Edwards", "text": "Ruth Dudley Edwards\n\nRuth Dudley Edwards (born 24 May 1944, in Dublin, Ireland) is an Irish writer. One of several positions she holds is columnist with the Irish \"Sunday Independent\".\n\nDudley Edwards was born and brought up in Dublin and educated at University College Dublin (UCD), Girton College, Cambridge, and Wolfson College, Cambridge. Her father was the Irish historian Professor Robert Dudley Edwards. Her brother Owen Dudley Edwards is a historian at the University of Edinburgh. In 1965, she married a fellow UCD graduate, the journalist Patrick Cosgrave. They later divorced.\n\nHer grandmother, Bridget Dudley Edwards, was an Irish suffragette and a member of Cumann na mBan, a women's organisation designed to support the Irish Volunteers. Members of Cumann na mBan gathered intelligence, transported arms, nursed wounded men, provided safe houses, and organised support for IRA men in prison. They also boosted attendance at election rallies, funerals and protest marches. In 1922 the organisation overwhelmingly rejected the Treaty.\n\nHer non-fiction books include \"An Atlas of Irish History\", \"James Connolly\", \"Victor Gollancz: A Biography\" (winner of the James Tait Black Memorial Prize), \"The Pursuit of Reason: The Economist 1843–1993\", \"The Faithful Tribe: An Intimate Portrait of the Loyal Institutions\" (shortlisted for Channel 4/The House Politico's Book of the Year) and \"Newspapermen: Hugh Cudlipp, Cecil King and the glory days of Fleet Street\". Her \"Patrick Pearse: The Triumph of Failure\" (winner of the National University of Ireland Prize for Historical Research), first published in 1977, was reissued in 2006 by Irish Academic Press. In 2009 she published \"Aftermath: The Omagh Bombings and the Families' Pursuit of Justice\" a book about the civil case that was won on 8 June 2009 against the Omagh bombers. \"The Faithful Tribe\" was criticised by Ulster Protestant journalist Susan McKay as \"sentimental and blinkered\", but the \"New Statesman\" contributor Stephen Howe described it as \"engrossing and illuminating\" and the Irish Independent journalist John A. Murphy described it as \"enormously readable, entertaining and informative\", but \"[her argument] 'extremely disingenuous'\", and he quotes Othello, 'The lady doth protest too much, methinks', when describing one of her counter-arguments as 'exaggerated'. He added \"Historically in Ireland, Protestant `liberties' tended to mean Protestant `privilege,' and many Protestants (even including some United Irishmen) doubted whether Roman Catholics were constitutionally capax libertatis capable of appreciating or enjoying liberty at all, because of Roman tyranny and priest-craft. In short, the Orange Protestant is still benightedly living in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: the Southern Catholic, whatever his past intolerances, has moved on.\". In 2016 she published \"The Seven: The Lives and Legacies of the Founding Fathers of the Irish Republic\" (Oneworld), a re-examination of the Easter Rising, addressing the fundamental questions and myths surrounding the 1916 leaders.\n\nAlso a crime fiction writer, her novels include: \"Corridors of Death\", \"The Saint Valentine's Day Murders\", \"The English School of Murder\", \"Clubbed to Death\", \"Matricide at St. Martha's\", \"Ten Lords A-Leaping\", \"Murder in a Cathedral\", \"Publish and Be Murdered\", \"Anglo-Irish Murders\", \"Carnage on the Committee\", \"Murdering Americans\", and \"Killing the Emperors\".\n\nFollowing the Cannes prize announcement, for \"The Wind That Shakes the Barley\", Ruth Dudley Edwards wrote in the \"Daily Mail\" on 30 May 2006 that Loach's political viewpoint \"requires the portrayal of the British as sadists and the Irish as romantic, idealistic resistance fighters who take to violence only because there is no other self-respecting course,\" and attacked his career in an article. The following week, Edwards continued her attack in \"The Guardian\", admitting that her first article was written without seeing the film (which at that stage had only been shown at Cannes), and asserting that she would never see it \"because I can't stand its sheer predictability.\"\n\nDudley Edwards has stated that she is \"not in principle against Irish unification\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5807009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5807009", "title": "Sebeos", "text": "Sebeos\n\nSebeos () was a 7th-century Armenian bishop and historian.\n\nLittle is known about the author, though a signature on the resolution of the Ecclesiastical Council of Dvin in 645 reads 'Bishop Sebeos of Bagratunis.' His writings are valuable as one of the few intact surviving sources that chronicle sixth century Armenia and its surrounding territories. The history of Sebeos contains detailed descriptions from the period of Sassanid supremacy in Armenia up to the Islamic conquest in 661. His history was published for the first time in 1851 in Istanbul.\n\nTo him has been attributed the \"A History of Heraclius\", chronicling events from the end of the fifth century to 661. The first section begins with the mythical foundation of Armenia with the Legend of Hyke and Bel, moving to contemporary history with the ascent of Vardan II Mamikonian in 570. From there, he relates the struggles and alliances between Persia and Byzantium.\n\nThe second section narrates the ascent of a new political and military force, the Ishmaelites (i.e. Arabs).\n\nThis section describes how Mahmed first established a community comprising Ishmaelites and Jews based on their common descent from Abraham; the Arabs via Ishmael, and the Jews via Isaac. From there, the Ishmaelites made dramatic territorial gains, including their victory over the Sassanian dynasty, and the narrative ends with the division of the Ishmaelite armies and the beginnings of the First Fitna. He relates these developments to Armenia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13680874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13680874", "title": "Sempad the Constable", "text": "Sempad the Constable\n\nSempad the Constable () (1208–1276) (also Smpad and Smbat) was a noble in Cilician Armenia, an older brother of King Hetoum I. He was an important figure in Cilicia, acting as a diplomat, judge, and military officer, holding the title of Constable or \"Sparapet\", supreme commander of the Armenian armed forces. He was also a writer and translator, especially known for providing translations of various legal codes, and the creation of an important account of Cilician history, the \"Chronique du Royaume de Petite Armenie\" (\"Chronicle of the Kingdom of Little Armenia\"). He organized and fought in multiple battles, such as the Battle of Mari, and was trusted by his brother King Hetoum to be a key negotiator with the Mongol Empire.\n\nAt the time of Sempad's birth there were two key dynasties in Cilicia, the Rubenids and the Hetoumids, and he was related to both. Sempad was the son of Constantine of Baberon and Partzapert (third cousin of Leo II of Armenia). Other siblings included John the Bishop of Sis, Ochine of Korykos, Stephanie (later wife of King Henry I of Cyprus), and Hetoum, who became co-ruler in 1226. The earlier ruler had been Queen Isabella of Armenia, who was married to Philip, son of Bohemond IV of Antioch. Constantine arranged for Philip to be murdered in 1225, and forced Isabella to then marry his son Hetoum on June 4, 1226, making him the co-ruler, and then sole ruler after Isabella's death in 1252.\n\nCilicia was a Christian country, that had ties to Europe and the Crusader States, and fought against the Muslims for control of the Levant. The Mongols were also a threat, as Genghis Khan's Empire had been steadily pushing westward in its seemingly unstoppable advance. The Mongols had a deserved reputation for ruthlessness, giving new territories one opportunity to surrender, and if there was resistance, the Mongols moved in and slaughtered the local population.\n\nIn 1243, Sempad was part of the embassy to Caesarea, where he negotiated with the Mongol leader Baiju. In 1246 and again in 1259, Sempad was in charge of organizing the defense of Cilicia against the invasion of the Sultanate of Rum. In 1247, when King Hetoum I decided that his wisest course of action was to peacefully submit to the Mongols, Sempad was sent to the Mongol court in Karakorum. There, Sempad met Kublai Khan's brother Möngke Khan, and made an alliance between Cilicia and the Mongols, against their common enemy the Muslims. The nature of this relationship is described differently by various historians, some of whom refer to it as an alliance, while others describe it as a submission to Mongol overlordship, making Armenia a vassal state. Historian Angus Donal Stewart, in \"Logic of Conquest\", described it as, \"The Armenian king saw alliance with the Mongols – or, more accurately, swift and peaceful subjection to them – as the best course of action.\" Armenian military leaders were required to serve in the Mongol army, and many of them perished in Mongol battles.\n\nDuring his 1247-1250 visit to the Mongol court, Sempad received a relative of the Great Khan as a bride. He had a son with her, named Vasil Tatar, who would later be captured by the Mamluks at the Battle of Mari in 1266.\n\nSempad returned to Cilicia in 1250, though he returned to Mongolia in 1254, accompanying King Hetoum on his own visit to the court of the Great Khan, Möngke.\n\nOn the death of his father, Sempad became Baron of \"Papeŕōn\" (Çandır Castle) and resided in its small, but lavish baronial palace. \n\nSempad died in 1276 either in the Second Battle of Sarvandikar, fighting against the Mamluks of Egypt, or against an invasion of the Turcomans from Marash. The Armenians won the battle, but Sempad and several other barons were lost.\n\nSempad was a member of the Armenian supreme court, the \"Verin\" or \"Mec Darpas\", which examined government policies and the legal codes. He created a translation of the \"Assizes of Antioch\" (a legal code) from French, and also created in Middle Armenian a \"Datastanagirk\"' (codex), which was based on and adapted from the earlier work of Mkhitar Gosh.\n\nSempad is best known for providing eyewitness written accounts of his era. He wrote the \"Chronique du Royaume de Petite Arménie\" (\"History of the Kingdom of Little Armenia\") which begins around 951/952, and ends in 1274, two years before his death. He worked from older Armenian, Syriac, Christian, and possibly Byzantine sources, as well as from his own observations. Sempad's writings are considered a valuable resource by historians, although some have criticized them as unreliable, as Sempad was often writing for reasons of propaganda rather than history.\n\nMultiple translations exist of the work, in varying levels of completeness. According to historian Angus Donal Stewart, there are both French and English translations, which cover the period up until the 1270s. In the 19th century, it was translated by Eduard Dulaurier and published in \"Receuil des Historiens des Croisades\", \"Historiens Armeniens I\", together with some other continuation excerpts by an anonymous author which cover the period after Sempad's death, up through the 1330s. This edition also includes excerpts from the work of Nerses Balients, who was writing in the later fourteenth century.\n\nSempad was enthusiastic about his travel to the Mongol realm, which lasted between 1247 and 1250. He sent letters to Western rulers of Cyprus and the Principality of Antioch, describing a Central Asian realm of oasis with many Christians, generally of the Nestorian rite.\n\nOn February 7, 1248, Sempad sent a letter from Samarkand to his brother-in-law Henry I, king of Cyprus (who was married to Sempad's sister Stephanie (\"Etienette\"):\n\nOne of Sempad's letters was read by Louis IX of France during his 1248 stay in Cyprus, which encouraged him to send ambassadors to the Mongols, in the person of the Dominican André de Longjumeau, who went to visit Güyük Khan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48090580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48090580", "title": "Storage of cultural heritage objects", "text": "Storage of cultural heritage objects\n\nThe storage of cultural heritage objects typically falls to the responsibility of cultural heritage institutions, or individuals. The proper storage of these objects can help to ensure a longer lifespan for the object with minimal damage or degradation. With so many different types of artifacts, materials, and combinations of materials, keepers of these artifacts often have considerable knowledge of the best practices in storing these objects to preserve their original state.\n\nThe process involved when creating a collections storage area usually involves determining the available resources, the needs of the specific collection, how the collection will be used, and the necessary space required based on the current collection and potential future acquisitions. The accessibility of objects in storage, as well as the need to retrieve them, will have an effect on the type of storage space desired. If only a small portion of the collection is regularly utilized, then a separate more easily accessible storage space may be chosen for these objects, while less utilized objects may be held in a less accessible area of the building, or an offsite facility. In either case, collections storage spaces are typically separate from all other activity in order to decrease the potential for damage to the collection from theft, tracked in soil, excessive light exposure, etc.\n\nA well designed collections storage space is multi-layered, beginning with the building itself, a room, storage furniture, and packaging. The more layers utilized the greater the protection from agents of deterioration. It is generally agreed that storage spaces should not be at the top of the building or below grade, but attics and basements are often the most practical space for storage, so many institutions weigh the risks, and opt to upgrade these spaces in terms of structure, insulation, and/or vapor barriers to create a suitable space for storage.\n\nThe type and size of the objects in the collection also help to determine where and how the storage space is set up. If the collection has many large heavy items, like furniture, the storage spaces typically have low shelving for these items, and require wide isles to move the objects, especially if they require large equipment like a forklift to be moved. In these cases, the doorways must be large enough to accommodate these large objects, and the floor structure must be reinforced to hold the weight of the collection. If a collection consists of mostly small objects, then cabinets and shelving are a practical solution, while a collection of two-dimensional works might require flat drawers and hanging racks.\n\nThe climate control systems in collections storage typically include the control of temperature, relative humidity, and a ventilation and filtration system to remove atmospheric pollutants like dust, chemicals, and micro-organisms. The basic idea of climate control is to keep the temperature and relative humidity at a steady rate so as to avoid expansion and contraction of materials, which can cause serious damage. Climate control is typically achieved by utilizing an HVAC system, though depending on weather patterns, these systems can often require a great deal of energy to run, which is a concern for many institutions.\n\nGenerally, keeping a lower temperature is better for collections storage, because chemical and biological reactions tend to increase as the temperature increases and structural damage is possible to objects made of materials such as wax, at high temperatures. The standard practice for temperature control for general collections objects is a temperature of 70 °F +/-2 °F, or 21 °C +/-2 °C. For some collections, there are specified temperature suggestions to protect delicate materials. For example, furs, paper archives, and textiles may be stored at a lower temperature between 41 °F to 50 °F (5-10 °C), and cellulose nitrate film is often isolated and stored below freezing, as it has the potential to ignite at 106 °F.\n\nThe standard practice for humidity control for collections objects is a relative humidity of 50% +/-5%, though the expenditures required to keep such a tight relative humidity have been shown to only offer modest prevention benefits. As with temperature control, the main goal of the control of relative humidity to is avoid major fluctuations which can cause physical damage to objects, with long term seasonal changes causing greater damage than short term changes. Hygroscopic materials such as wood, textiles, and bone, are especially sensitive to changes in humidity, as they swell and shrink according to the environment, which will cause deterioration over time. Mold growth occurs only when the relative humidity is about 70% or higher, and insect infestation is more common with a high relative humidity. A very low relative humidity, of about 35% or lower, can cause embrittlement of paper and adhesives, as well as cracking and warping of wood and ivory. Many museum objects are constructed of multiple materials, so in order to provide an appropriate relative humidity for the object as a whole, certain materials may be compromised.\n\nAn ongoing monitoring system is essential to the preventive care of objects in collections storage, as it helps to identify any problems, evaluate the effectiveness of corrective measures, and document the effect of extraordinary events such as water leaks, long periods of drought, or heavy rains. Hygrothermographs are a tool that constantly monitors both the temperature and relative humidity, and are fairly reliable if properly calibrated, a task that must be completed at least every three months if not more frequently. The value with these devices is that they constantly record the data onto graphs that can be analyzed at a later time. Hygrometers, thermometers, and thermohygrometers are also useful for determining the temperature and relative humidity of a space, but the most reliable tool is a psychrometer. Data loggers are becoming more popular in institutions as they are small, record data at desired intervals, and allow the data to be easily transferred to a computer in multiple formats including graphs and tables, which allows for easy collection and assessment of the data.\n\nBecause damage from visible light and ultraviolet radiation is cumulative and irreversible, collections storage spaces tend to have few ambient light sources, such as windows, and often have lighting installed in multiple zones controlled by different switches, so that all of the lights do not have to be turned on when only a small area of the storage space is actively being used. LED or UV-filtered fluorescent bulbs are generally recommended, as they save energy compared to incandescent bulbs, while quartz and halogen bulbs emit high levels of UV and infrared radiation as well as a significant amount of heat, which can cause increased deterioration of objects in the space.\n\nIntegrated pest management (IPM) is an intensive program that monitors for pests, such as insects and rodents, which may harm collections. This method utilizes traps to monitor the types of pests entering storage spaces, and to eliminate pest entrances and attractors. Chemical treatments for pests are generally only utilized as a last resort, and with the advice of a professional, because they add toxic and potentially harmful chemicals to the storage space. To avoid attracting pests, collecting institutions typically avoid having exterior lighting focused around doors and windows, when possible, and also avoid using mercury vapor or tungsten lights.\n\nThey type of objects in the collection, available space, and need for ease of accessibility tend to determine what type of storage system is utilized for a particular collection. There are many generic storage systems that can be purchased and modified to fit the needs of a specific collection, and this is generally more cost effective than having a system specially built. In small storage areas many institutions will utilize mobile systems that have shelving units on a track, which allows access to a desired aisle while the rest of the shelving units are pushed together.\n\nWood storage furniture is typically avoided, even if painted, as it offgasses harmful acids, while often used metal storage equipment is typically made out of steel that is powder-coated with an epoxy finish, which is more durable than an acrylic or polyester finish.\n\nSliding racks are typically used for the storage of framed works of art, where works are hung on a wire rack connected to tracks that are suspended from channels on the floor and ceiling, which keeps the racks from swaying. This type of system allows great variation, as the distance between racks can be adjusted to accommodate large or small frames, and works can be organized to make the most of the space while keeping them in their upright position to avoid damage. These types of sliding rack systems can also be a closed unit, where the end of each rack has a panel with a gasket and closed walls at either end, or each individual rack can be a sealed space in itself, which is typically used for textile display or visible storage systems, where the objects are encased in a transparent rack. Mobile racks can also be utilized to hang textiles, where the textiles can either be draped over a bar, or supported by hooks attached to frames. Racks can also be mounted to the walls of storage spaces, utilizing the perimeter space of a storage area, which is safest for framed objects that should not be moved often, such as framed pastel drawings.\n\nOpen steel shelving systems are cost effective, and easily adjusted to accommodate objects of various sizes. Deeper shelves are often utilized for larger objects, while smaller objects are typically stored on narrower shelves to avoid overcrowding, and potential damage when retrieving objects from the back of the shelf. Shelving units can accommodate the height of the ceiling if necessary, but it is safer for objects and those working with them to keep shelves within an easily accessible reach. If open shelving is used, it is suggested that the objects are placed in boxes, or otherwise covered to protect the objects from dust and other environmental factors. Metal shelving is prone to carry vibrations, so if objects are not individually housed in boxes or otherwise stabilized, it is recommended that the shelves be lined with a protective padding. It is also necessary for cabinets to be stabilized by being bolted to the floor or walls, and for shelves to have restraining bars, to avoid tipping, especially in earthquake prone areas.\n\nCabinets tend to be versatile and easily accommodate a wide variety of objects with adjustable shelving and drawers, and have the ability to close the objects off to avoid damage from dust and light even if the objects are not in boxes or otherwise covered.\n\nDrawers can be open or closed, and contained within cabinets or stand as a unit of their own. Open drawer systems leave room between drawers and are often adjustable to accommodate objects of different heights by placing the drawers in the desired runners or leaving unused drawers out completely. Closed drawer systems offer more protection from dust and light exposure than the open drawer systems, and the drawers are typically shorter to accommodate small objects, textiles, and two-dimensional objects. Dividers can be made to fit in shallow drawers to create individual compartments for small objects like coins, or small individual boxes can be utilized in the same fashion, which allows the entire box to be removed so the object itself is handled less.\nRolls are a preferred way to store certain textiles because they help to avoid creasing or stretching. The method typically involves rolling textiles around a cardboard tube that has been covered with acid-free paper, or some other barrier, and then a plastic cover is wrapped around the rolled textile, with the ends loosely tied, to protect from dust. Rolled textiles can be placed on a shelf, but a preferred method is to suspend them horizontally by the ends of the tubes, which keeps the textiles from being damaged by pressure.\n\nArchival housing materials are utilized to protect objects from dust, light, and vibrations that could potentially harm objects in the storage space, if they were not otherwise protected. Commonly used office supplies do not typically have archival qualities, and to ensure that collections objects are not affected by these materials, institutions do not use materials that have not been tested, to ensure they are inert and therefore will not place the collections at risk.\n\nBoxes can add an additional layer of microclimate insulation and make moving objects easier. Archival boxes are typically made of corrugated, acid-free paper, either buffered or unbuffered, or they can be made of corrugated polyethylene or polypropylene plastic.\n\nAll paper products will acidify over time, so even archival acid-free paper products used for storage are typically replaced every few years. Archival acid-free paper products can be either buffered or unbuffered. Unbuffered paper has a neutral pH and is used for housing photographs, textiles, and most other types of objects, while buffered paper, which is impregnated with calcium carbonate and has an alkaline pH, is used for storing paper objects. The buffered paper absorbs the acid that paper objects emit and keeps the micro-environment from becoming overly acidic for a longer period of time.\n\nMost common plastics contain chlorinated compounds and plasticizers, which can migrate out and harm objects. Polyethylene and polyester are considered archival plastics because they do not offgas harmful chemicals, but they can produce static electricity in a low RH, so they should be avoided around friable objects.\n\n\nFabrics are utilized for wrapping or padding objects, or in the form of string to secure wrappings or labels onto objects. Archival fabrics are typically washed before use to remove sizing chemicals and to soften the material, and are never dyed.\n\n\nFoam rubber and urethane foams offgas harmful fumes, and are highly flammable, so they are typically avoided in collection storage spaces.\n\n\nMany museums are beginning to opt for open storage spaces that allow visitors to see more of the collections and behind the scenes activities. While this practice has become popular for the enjoyment of visitors and the transparency of institutions, the practice allows for increased light exposure, dust levels, and other environmental concerns that could be potentially harmful to the objects.\n\nMuseums with open storage:\n\n"}
{"id": "29302524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29302524", "title": "Targeted Killing in International Law", "text": "Targeted Killing in International Law\n\nTargeted Killing in International Law is a book about the legality of targeted killing, written by Nils Melzer. It was first published by Oxford University Press in May 2008. The book explores the history of targeted killing as a government strategy by multiple countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Switzerland and Germany; for both military and law enforcement purposes. Melzer argues that directly after the September 11 attacks in the United States, perceptions of the tactic became more positive.\n\nMelzer holds a PhD degree in law from University of Zürich. His dissertation dealt with targeted killing and the book updates and revises that work. He had earlier written on the subject for \"Yearbook of Humanitarian International Law\" in 2006. Melzer serves as a legal advisor for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). He has lectured at the Master-level at the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights.\n\nThe book received a favorable reception and was a joint winner of the 2009 Paul Guggenheim Prize in International Law given by the Geneva Graduate Institute. It garnered positive reviews in publications including the \"International Criminal Justice Review\", the \"European Journal of International Law\", the \"Leiden Journal of International Law\", the \"Australian Year Book of International Law\", the \"American Journal of International Law\", and in the book \"Legislating the War on Terror: An Agenda for Reform\".\n\nNils Melzer graduated \"summa cum laude\" from the University of Zürich with a PhD degree in law. Melzer worked for the District Court of Meilen, Zürich, first as a Judicial Clerk and then as Judicial Secretary. Melzer serves as a legal advisor for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). He lectured at the Master-level at the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights.\n\nPrior to the book, Melzer published \"Targeted Killing or Less Harmful Means? – Israel's High Court Judgment on Targeted Killing and the Restrictive Function of Military Necessity\" in the \"Yearbook of Humanitarian International Law\" in 2006, and a dissertation in 2007. Melzer also authored \"Interpretive Guidance on the Notion of Direct Participation in Hostilities under International Humanitarian Law\", published in 2009 by ICRC. Melzer's research was utilized in Section IX of the ICRC's Interpretive Guidance on the Notion of Direct Participation in Hostilities under International Humanitarian Law.\n\n\"Targeted Killing in International Law\" is part of the series, Oxford Monographs in International Law. The hardback was first published by Oxford University Press on 29 May 2008, and subsequently in the United States by Oxford University Press, USA in July 2008. In January 2009, the work was published online at \"Oxford Scholarship Online\". On 10 September 2009, Oxford University Press released a paperback in the UK. Oxford University Press, USA released a paperback on 9 November 2009.\n\nNils Melzer presents an historical, legal and moral examination of targeted killing. The author observes that after September 11, the Western world grew more supportive of targeted killing than ever before. The book recounts in depth how state-sanctioned targeted killing is perceived in other countries. He defines targeted killing as the premeditated selection of an individual person not yet in custody for elimination by force. Melzer analyzes all areas of the topic.\n\nThe book discusses related legal practices of countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Switzerland and Germany. Israel was the first country to publicly acknowledge the practice—in November 2000. The author connects this policy initiative with Israel's ongoing conflict with Palestinian militants. Melzer argues that this policy was controversial—the issue came before the Israeli Supreme Court, where the matter was not decided for almost five years. The court's judgment was issued on 14 December 2006, but neither forbade nor endorsed the practice. Melzer asserts that it left multiple important legal conundra unresolved. Its significance was that it dealt not with a single incident, but rather with the nature of the policy itself and set forth conditions for examining the legality of future episodes.\n\nMelzer claims that during the Vietnam War the Central Intelligence Agency used targeted killings as part of the Phoenix Program, attempting to eliminate Vietcong sympathizers. Melzer cites a source who contends that some 40,000 individuals may have been killed under this program. The author sees the air raids on Muammar Gaddafi in the 1986 bombing of Libya in response to the Lockerbie bombing as another instance. He argues that after September 11, 2001, the policy became more acceptable in the U.S. to adopt targeted killings as a tactic.\n\nAccording to Melzer, after the September 11 attacks, U.S. strategists began to support targeted killings and accepted advice from Israel on how to use such tactics to deal with suicide bombers. Melzer describes an abrupt change where military members were ordered to \"shoot to kill\", replacing prior orders to incapacitate. The author asserts that in at least one case in 2005, a person was killed because they were thought to be a terrorist holding a bomb. It was later revealed that this person suffered from mental illness and may have had a medical history of bipolar disorder. The shooting was determined to be justifiable under the law and criminal charges were not filed.\n\nMelzer discusses the shift in perceptions towards acceptance by United Kingdom law enforcement after September 11. The Metropolitan Police officially endorsed a \"shoot to kill\" strategy directly after the attack. Melzer finds this policy shift incongruous, due to the fact that targeted killing had never before been acceptable as police strategy. Prior to the attack, targeted killing was a criminal offense.\n\n\"Targeted Killing in International Law\" was a joint-winner of the 2009 Paul Guggenheim Prize in International Law given by the Geneva Graduate Institute. In the chapter \"Targeted Killing in U.S. Counterterrorism Strategy and Law\" authored by Kenneth Anderson as a contributor to the book \"Legislating the War on Terror: An Agenda for Reform\", he characterizes Melzer's book as an admirable opus on the subject. Anderson describes the book in more depth in a footnote, calling it a complete and thorough academic reference book. He goes on to criticize the perspective of the book for describing and then rejecting objections by the United States to arguments addressed in the work. Anderson writes that the book is both one scholars must have to educate themselves on the subject, while simultaneously lamenting its advocacy for U.S. legal positions. Anderson observes the author covers all facets of targeted killing in the book.\n\nIn a review of the book for the journal \"International Criminal Justice Review\", Robert M. Worley of Penn State Altoona comments favorably on the comprehensive nature of Melzer's research and his descriptions of the differences of the practice of targeted killing in varying countries. Worley comments on the relevance of the book to scholars in various fields, including history, law, law enforcement, and terrorism analysis. Worley concludes his review by recommending the book for those with a fascination in researching criminal justice or the law. William Abresch comments favorably on \"Targeted Killing in International Law\", in a review for the \"European Journal of International Law\". He writes that the book is an important addition to the field of scholarship regarding how international law governs the practice of targeted killing. Abresch calls the author's writing style logical, and praises the book's organizational structure including its separate sections on use of targeted in war contrasted with use by police.\n\nA review of the book in the \"Leiden Journal of International Law\" by Tamás Hoffmann recommends the work to multiple potential readers, including those who engage in targeting killing, academics, and students. Hoffmann calls it a well-researched monograph and helpful reference work on the subject. The review places the book within the context of addressing legal issues inherent in debating the murky concept of targeted killing. Hoffmann states the book furthers prior attempts to come to a resolution on the question of the practice's legality. Helen Durhan praises the writing quality of Melzer's work, in a review for the \"Australian Year Book of International Law\". Durhan writes the work is organized in an easily readable format and covers the topic with neutrality. She goes on to call the book a work representing the need for concerned discussion prior to implementing any policy involved in eliminating people. Of the author's focus throughout the work, Durhan observes that the author handles discussion of the legality of targeted killing in a clear and precise manner. The review concludes Melzer's thorough analysis goes a long way towards furthering scholars' impressions of legal issues surrounding when it is permitted for sovereign governments to kill people.\n\nWriting in a review for the \"American Journal of International Law\", Michael N. Schmitt observes that the arguments put forth in the book by Melzer are indeed accurate. Schmitt writes that Melzer correctly argues that in the police model sequential events within the legal system lead to precedent for engaging in targeted killing. Schmitt describes the book as an excellent overview of many aspects of law regarding targeted killing. Schmitt concludes, \"\"Targeted Killing in International Law\" is not just a major contribution to the legal literature, it has justifiably emerged as the premier work on the subject.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9138693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9138693", "title": "The Truth about Nanjing", "text": "The Truth about Nanjing\n\nThe film was backed by nationalistic figures including Tokyo governor Shintaro Ishihara and public donations, and was intended to expose what the filmmakers saw as propaganda aspects of the Nanking Massacre. Less than a month before the 70th anniversary of the Nanjing massacre, the director said in an interview that Japanese war criminals were martyrs who were made into scapegoats for war crimes as Jesus Christ was nailed to the cross in order to bear the sins of the world, and they died bearing all of old Japan's good and bad parts. He also claimed that the Nanjing Massacre was a politically motivated frame-up by China and the numerous Western eyewitnesses, whose accounts form the basis of the historical understanding of the Nanjing Massacre. These accounts were, according to the filmmakers, espionage activities.\n\nMizushima said that the project was meant to counter the film \"Nanking\", a 2007 American documentary, which he believed was \"based on fabrications and gives a false impression\" and which he perceives to be a \"setup by China to control intelligence\".\n\n\"The Truth about Nanjing\" is a three-part film.\nThis part shows the last day of the seven people who were condemned to death in 1948 by the International Military Tribunal for the Far East and executed on 23 December 1948 at Sugamo Prison, Tokyo. The film focuses on Iwane Matsui's campaign in Nanking through flashbacks. Focus is put on each of the seven men. \n\n\nA number of serving national-level Japanese politicians came out in support of the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25897766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25897766", "title": "The road to hell is paved with good intentions", "text": "The road to hell is paved with good intentions\n\nThe road to hell is paved with good intentions is a proverb or aphorism. An alternative form is \"Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works\".\n\nThe saying is thought to have originated with Saint Bernard of Clairvaux who wrote ( 1150), \"\"L'enfer est plein de bonnes volontés ou désirs\" (hell is full of good wishes or desires). An earlier saying occurs in Virgil's \"Aeneid\": \"facilis descensus Averno\" (the descent to hell is easy)\".\n\nA common interpretation of the saying is that wrongdoings or evil actions are often masked by good intentions; or even that good intentions, when acted upon, may have unintended consequences. A simple example is the introduction of an invasive species, like the Asian carp, which has become a nuisance due to unexpected proliferation and behaviour.\n\nAnother meaning of the phrase is that individuals may have the intention to undertake good actions but nevertheless fail to take action. This inaction may be due to procrastination, laziness or other subversive vice. As such, the saying is an admonishment that a good intention is meaningless unless followed through.\n\nMoral certainty can be used to justify the harm done by failing policies and actions. Those with good intentions believe their practices are good for the group; it is self-evident to them. They justify collateral damage in the belief they do a greater good. The Nazi concentration camps were created to hold so-called \"racially undesirable elements\" of German society. The GULAG system was introduced in order to isolate disloyal elements not contributing to the dictatorship of the proletariat. The Inquisition was established to eradicate heretics in religious states. The harm done is clearly seen, and acknowledged, but is written off as a 'price worth paying'.\n\nOn a personal level, taking a subjectively \"good action\" can land one in a horrific emotional and/or physical state of being, e.g., a soldier goes off to war to fight for the subjective good of their country and ends up with post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nPsychological studies of the effect of intention upon task completion by professors Peter Gollwitzer, Paschal Sheeran and Sheina Orbell indicate that there is some truth in the proverb. Perfectionists are especially prone to having their intentions backfire in this way. Some have argued that people are more likely to interpret their own actions as more well intended than the actions of others.\n\nAttempts to improve the ethical behaviour of groups are often counter-productive. If legislation is used for such an attempt, people observe the letter of the law rather than improve the desired behaviour. During negotiation, groups that are encouraged to understand the point of view of the other parties are worse at this than those whose perspective is not enlightened. The threat of punishment may make behavior less rather than more ethical. Studies of business ethics indicate that most wrongdoing is not due directly to wickedness but is performed by people who did not plan to err.\n\nStephen Garrard Post, writing about altruism, suggests that good intentions are often not what they seem and that mankind normally acts from less worthy, selfish motives—\"If the road to hell is paved with good intentions, it is partly because that is the road they generally start out on.\"\n\nAuthors who have used the phrase include Charlotte Brontë, Lord Byron, Samuel Johnson, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Sir Walter Scott, Søren Kierkegaard, and Karl Marx. Ozzy Osbourne used the term in the song \"Tonight\" on his album \"Diary of a Madman\".\n\nIn the movie \"Highway to Hell\", the phrase is taken literally to create one particular scene. The Good Intentions Paving Company has a team of Andy Warhols who grind good-intentioned souls into pavement. \"I was only sleeping with my husband's boss to advance his career\", says one. The figurative meaning of the phrase is a big part of the plot too, as several characters offer help to the two protagonists on the Road to Hell, but all of them have ulterior motives.\n\nPink used the phrase in her 2006 song Dear Mr. President to refer to the No Child Left Behind Act.\n\nMadonna uses this line in her 2008 single \"4 Minutes,\" featuring Justin Timberlake and Timbaland, off her eleventh studio album \"Hard Candy\".\n\nThe phrase is used in the \"\" episode \"In the Pale Moonlight\".\n"}
{"id": "272031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272031", "title": "Theophanes the Confessor", "text": "Theophanes the Confessor\n\nSaint Theophanes the Confessor (; c. 758/760 – March 12, 817/818) was a member of the Byzantine aristocracy, who became a monk and chronicler. He is venerated on March 12 in the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nTheophanes was born in Constantinople of wealthy and noble iconodule parents: Isaac, imperial governor of the islands of the Black Sea, and Theodora, of whose family nothing is known. His father died when Theophanes was three years old, and the Byzantine Emperor Constantine V (740–775) subsequently saw to the boy's education and upbringing at the imperial court. Theophanes would hold several offices under this patron.\n\nHe was married at the age of twelve, but convinced his wife to lead a life of virginity. In 799, after the death of his father-in-law, they separated with mutual consent to embrace the religious life. She chose a convent on an island near Constantinople, while he entered the Polychronius Monastery, located in the district of Sigiane (Sigriano), near Cyzicus on the Asian side of the Sea of Marmara. Later, he built a monastery on his own lands on the island of Calonymus (now Calomio).\n\nAfter six years he returned to Sigriano, where he founded an abbey known by the name \"of the great acre\" and governed it as abbot. In this position of leadership, he was present at the Second General Council of Nicaea in 787, and signed its decrees in defense of the veneration of icons.\n\nWhen Emperor Leo V the Armenian (813–820) resumed his iconoclastic warfare, he ordered Theophanes brought to Constantinople. The Emperor tried in vain to induce him to condemn the same veneration of icons that had been sanctioned by the council. Theophanes was cast into prison and for two years suffered cruel treatment. After his release, he was banished to Samothrace in 817, where overwhelmed with afflictions, he lived only seventeen days. He is credited with many miracles that occurred after his death, which most likely took place on 12 March, the day he is commemorated in the \"Roman Martyrology\".\n\nAt the urgent request of his friend George Syncellus, Theophanes undertook the continuation of Syncellus' \"Chronicle\" (, Kronografia), during the years 810 to 815. The language used occupies a place midway between the stiff ecclesiastical and the vernacular Greek.He arguably made use of three main sources: first, material already prepared by Syncellus; second, he probably made the use of a set of extracts made by Theodore Lector from the works of Socrates Scholasticus, Sozomenus, and Theodoret; and third, the city chronicle of Constantinople. Cyril Mango has argued that Theophanes contributed but little to the chronicle that bears his name, and that the vast bulk of its contents are the work of Syncellus; on this model, Theophanes' main contribution was to cast Syncellus' rough materials together in a unified form.\n\nTheophanes' part of the chronicle covered events from the accession of Diocletian in 284 (which is the point where the chronicle of George Syncellus ends) to the downfall of Michael I Rhangabes in 813. This part of the chronicle is valuable for having preserved the accounts of lost authorities on Byzantine history for the seventh and eighth centuries that would be otherwise have been lost. \n\nThe work consists of two parts, wherein the first provides a chronological history arranged per annum, and the second contains chronological tables that are regretably full of inaccuracies. It seems that Theophanes had only prepared the tables, leaving vacant spaces for the proper dates, but that these had been filled out by someone else (Hugo von Hurter, \"Nomenlator literarius recentioris\" I, Innsbruck, 1903, 735). In the chronological first part, in addition to reckoning by the years of the world and the Christian era, Theophanes introduces in tabular form the regnal years of the Roman emperors, of the Persian kings and Arab caliphs, and of the five oecumenical patriarchs, a system which leads to considerable confusion, and therefore of little value.\n\nThe first part, though lacking in critical insight and chronological accuracy, which could scarcely be expected from a man of such ascetical disposition greatly surpasses the majority of Byzantine chronicles. Theophanes's Chronicle is particularly valuable beginning with the reign of Justin II (565), srthe point in his work he drew upon sources that have not survived his times\n\nTheophanes' \"Chronicle\" was much used by succeeding chroniclers, and in 873–875 a Latin compilation was made by the papal librarian Anastasius from the chronicles of Nicephorus, George Syncellus, and Theophanes for the use of a deacon named Johannes in the second half of the ninth century, and thus was known to Western Europe.\n\nThere also survives a further continuation, in six books, of the \"Chronicle\" down to the year 961 written by a number of mostly anonymous writers (called Theophanes Continuatus or \"Scriptores post Theophanem\"), who undertook the work at the instructions of Constantine Porphyrogenitus.\n\nAttribution:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58777", "title": "Timeline of thermodynamics", "text": "Timeline of thermodynamics\n\nA timeline of events related to thermodynamics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23723524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23723524", "title": "Transgender Oral History Project", "text": "Transgender Oral History Project\n\nThe Transgender Oral History Project is an initiative by and for the transgender community. TOHP collects interviews and produces multimedia content featuring a stories of transgender-identified people, and exists to empower trans folks through sharing stories of their lives. The Transgender Oral History Project is also active in the community, hosting events in many states including Massachusetts, Illinois, Iowa, Seattle, Philadelphia, and New York City.\n\nAccording to the official website, the Transgender Oral History Project's goals are to build community, encourage inter-generational discussion, framing contemporary issues that transgender people faced within a broader context, highlight individuals, communities, and organizations struggling with trans issues that are not addressed by mainstream discourses and portray how political, social, and historical circumstances impact transgender lives.\n\nThe Trans Oral History project was founded in 2009 by André Pérez as began documenting the evolution of the first ever New England Transgender Pride March. He went on to create a multimedia exhibit entitled, \"Community in Transition: 40 Years of Struggle\" that incorporated archival materials from the Sexual Minorities Archives and the first set of interviews from the Transgender Oral History Project. This exhibit has been featured at Marlboro College, University of Illinois Chicago, and the Translating Identities Conference.\n\nIn 2010, a poster describing the Compton's Cafeteria riot was featured in the anthology, Celebrate People's History, published by the Just Seeds Collective.\n\nIn 2011, the Trans Oral History Project participated in a two-month residency at the University of Illinois, Chicago's LGBTQ Resource Center. TOHP collective members lead a participatory workshop series and created a multimedia exhibition featuring interview materials.\n\nIn 2014, I Live for Trans Education: A Youth Toolkit officially launched. I Live featured mini documentaries paired with interactive activities to teach about issues that impact the transgender community. The toolkit is a resource for trans educators, youth workers, and youth leaders to educate about issues that impact the trans community from an intersectional perspective. TOHP also began partnering with StoryCorps, the largest oral history project in North America, to record and preserve stories. A TOHP interview was featured on WBEZ in Chicago. The Trans Oral History Project now serves as a community archive for StoryCorps' recordings with transgender individuals, and is in the process of integrating those interviews into their publicly accessible digital archive of transgender stories.\n\nMembers of the Trans History Collective have also led educational workshops in community settings, academic institutions, and national conferences. The Transgender Oral History Project collaborates with other organizations in the area to host regular skills shares that teach media production skills to trans* and gender variant people.\n\nSome of the events the Transgender Oral History Project has hosted are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59073826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59073826", "title": "Ulrich Ellis", "text": "Ulrich Ellis\n\nUlrich Ruegg Ellis (23 July 1904 – 4 December 1981) was an Australian journalist, political activist, and historian. He was known for his work in developing Canberra, his involvement with the New State Movement, and his behind-the-scenes work with the Country Party. He was the younger brother of the writer Malcolm Henry Ellis.\n\nEllis was born in Mount Morgan, Queensland, the youngest child of Constance Jane (née Ruegg) and Thomas James Ellis. His father was an Irish-born miner and his mother was born in England. He was raised solely by his mother from the age of three, when she and the children moved to the Brisbane suburb of Tingalpa. Ellis attended the local state school in Kelvin Grove before going on to Brisbane Grammar School. He became a cadet journalist at the age of 16.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1922, Ellis worked in Melbourne as a member of a news agency serving regional newspapers. He later worked for metropolitan daily newspapers, and then in 1925 began writing for the \"Morning Post\", the newspaper of the Victorian Country Party. Ellis moved to Canberra in 1927 as one of the first permanent press correspondents; he was one of the forerunners of the Canberra Press Gallery. He married Ray Arnot Maxwell, the daughter of federal MP George Maxwell, on 19 December 1930. Ellis was a \"passionate advocate of local self-government\" for Canberra and an advocate for the improvement of the capital's amenities, which were those of a small country town. He was the inaugural chairman of the Canberra Tourist Bureau from 1937 to 1940, and served on the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, an elective office, from 1947 to 1951.\n\nIn 1936, Ellis began working for the Department of Commerce as a commercial intelligence officer. He moved to Melbourne in 1940 and joined the Department of Munitions in an administrative capacity overseeing 600 employees. In 1944, Ellis moved back to Canberra and joined the Department of Post-War Reconstruction as deputy director of public relations. He wrote a letter to \"The Canberra Times\" in April 1945 criticising Interior Minister Joe Collings, accusing him of \"laugh[ing] with contempt in the face of the common principles of administrative justice\" and calling him \"unfit to administer his Department\". He was subsequently charged under the Public Service Act and fined ₤2 for contravening regulations. Ellis's final public-service position was in the Department of Information from 1946 to 1947. He subsequently established a rural lobby group, the Office of Rural Research.\n\nIn 1928, Ellis was appointed private secretary to Earle Page, the leader of the Country Party. They became close friends, and Ellis shared Page's passion for the New State Movement, which advocated for the creation of new states in regional New South Wales and Queensland. In 1933, Ellis served as the publicity officer for Charles Hardy's Riverina Movement, which advocated the secession of the Riverina from the rest of New South Wales. The following year, he gave evidence before the New South Wales royal commission on new states, chaired by Judge Harold Sprent Nicholas. Ellis served on the executive of the New England New State Movement from 1948, and he and his wife moved to Armidale, New South Wales, in 1960. He campaigned for the \"Yes\" vote in the 1967 New England secession referendum, which failed.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Ellis served as \"publicist, valet, chauffeur, nursemaid and baggage handler\" to Arthur Fadden, the leader of the Country Party and Deputy Prime Minister. He published two histories of the Country Party: \"The Country Party: A Political and Social History of the Party in New South Wales\" (1958), and \"A History of the Australian Country Party\" (1963).\n"}
{"id": "9287074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9287074", "title": "Vasil Kanchov", "text": "Vasil Kanchov\n\nVasil Kanchov ( \"Vasil Kǎnčov\") (26 July 1862 – 6 February 1902) was a Bulgarian geographer, ethnographer and politician.\n\nVasil Kanchov was born in Vratsa. Upon graduating from High school in Lom, Bulgaria, he entered the University of Harkov, then in Russia. During the Serbo-Bulgarian War 1885 he suspended his education and took part in the war. Later, he went on to pursue studies at universities in Munich and Stuttgart, but in 1888 he interrupted his education again due to an illness.\n\nIn the following years Kanchov was a Bulgarian teacher in Macedonia. He was a teacher in the Bulgarian Men's High School of Thessaloniki (1888–1891), a director of Bulgarian schools in Serres district (1891–1892), a headmaster of Bulgarian Men's High School of Thessaloniki (1892–1893), а chief school inspector of the Bulgarian schools in Macedonia (1894–1897).\n\nAfter 1898 Kanchov returned to Bulgaria and went into politics. In the beginning of 1902 he became an educational minister of Bulgaria, but was killed in his office by a psychopath.\n\nHe travelled extensively after 1888, visiting and researching all over Macedonia.\n\n\nKanchov Peak on Loubet Coast, Antarctica is named after Vasil Kanchov.\n"}
{"id": "41632259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41632259", "title": "Victor Coremans", "text": "Victor Coremans\n\nVictor Amédée Jacques Marie Coremans (5 October 1802 – 23 October 1872) was a Belgian archivist, journalist, historian, and political activist. He supported the Flemish Movement, advocating nationhood for Flanders.\n\nVictor was born in Brussels on 5 October 1802, the son of Jacques-Jean Coremans, a judge, and Anne-Marie Vandersande. In 1821 he was banished from Vienna for sedition. 1824 he edited the 'Erlanger Zeitung'. From 1831 to 1832, while living in Munich, he published and edited the Nuremberg radical newspaper \"Die Freie Presse\" (The Free Press). The Bavarian authorities responded by laying political charges on him, for which he was imprisoned. While in prison he wrote three German-language books that were well-received in Germany: \"Die Stimme aus dem Kerker\" (The Voice from the Dungeon), \"Kerkerblumen\" (Dungeon Flowers), and \"Die göttlichen Befreier\" (The Divine Liberator).\n\nAfter his release he spent some time in Switzerland before returning to his native Belgium. On 13 April 1836, he was appointed to the newly created \"Commission royale d'Histoire\" in Brussels. He went on to become the curator of the German collection in the National Archives of Belgium, and to publish several more works. \n\nHis scholarly writing addressed various topics in the history, culture, and politics of Belgium, Germany, and Austria. He published scholarly pieces in the \"Bulletin de la Commission royale d'histoire\" (1844–1847) and in the \"Revue d'histoire et d'archéologie\" (1860–1863). One article examined the origins and permutations of the legendary monarch Gambrinus. However, throughout his later he continued to promote liberal nationalism, and especially Flemish nationhood, through this journalistic writing. These articles were published in such journals as \"Vlaamsch België\", \"De Noordstar\", and \"De Zweep\".\n\nOn 7 August 1872, he retired from the National Archives. He died in Ixelles on 23 October 1872.\n\n"}
{"id": "3167556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167556", "title": "Zalmay A. Gulzad", "text": "Zalmay A. Gulzad\n\nProf. Dr. Zalmay A. Gulzad is Professor of Social Sciences at Harold Washington Community College in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nZalmay A. Gulzad was born in Kabul, Afghanistan and earned his Ph.D. in History from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He has a M.A. from the University of Illinois-Urbana and B.A. from Northeastern Illinois University. Zalmay has lectured extensively on current affairs in South Asia, Central Asia, and the Middle East. His area of research covers contemporary Afghan politics and the importance of its stability for the progress of the region. He is also the author of a textbook titled, \"External Influences and the Development of the Afghan State in the Nineteenth Century\".\n\nHe has been a faculty member at Harold Washington College for 23 years and has developed courses on International Relations, American Foreign Policy, Politics of the Middle East, and History of Contemporary Asia. Zalmay has spoken on radio, television and conference panels about the current affairs in Afghanistan.\n"}
