{"id": "19879021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19879021", "title": "1999 Monte Carlo Open", "text": "1999 Monte Carlo Open\n\nThe 1999 Monte Carlo Open was a men's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts. It was the 93rd edition of the Monte Carlo Open, and was part of the ATP Super 9 of the 1999 ATP Tour. It took place at the Monte Carlo Country Club in Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, France, near Monte Carlo, Monaco, from 19 April through 25 April 1999.\n\nThirteenth-seeded Gustavo Kuerten won the singles title.\n\n Gustavo Kuerten defeated Marcelo Ríos, 6–4, 2–1, retired\n\n Olivier Delaître / Tim Henman defeated Jiří Novák / David Rikl, 6–2, 6–3\n\n"}
{"id": "25853153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25853153", "title": "24 SOU \"P.K. Yavorov\"", "text": "24 SOU \"P.K. Yavorov\"\n\nThe school carries the name of the famous Bulgarian poet Peyo Yavorov. It was established in 1935. In 1969, it joined the 23rd Gymnasium “Poduene”, but later restored to a separate gymnasium again. Currently the school occupies its original building, built in accordance with the architectural standards of the early 20th century. The current address of 24 SOU \"P.K. Yavorov\" is: “Klisura” Str. 16, \"Hadzhi Dimtar\" district, Sofia 1510, Bulgaria.\n\nMany famous people have graduated from this school. Some of them are Yan Georgiev (actor); Georgi Ljubenov (journalist), Borislav Mihajlov and Pavel Vidanov (football players), Momchil Davidov (lecturer in the Sofia MVR Academy, writer, poet, composer, artist, and an expert in the area of internal security and public order).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2017476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2017476", "title": "Aide (deity)", "text": "Aide (deity)\n\nAide was the Basque numenistic deity of the air. She could manifest herself in both good (gentle breeze) and evil (storm wind) forms.\n"}
{"id": "26441878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26441878", "title": "Albanian General Staff", "text": "Albanian General Staff\n\nThe Albanian General Staff (GS; ), is the highest military structure of the Albanian Armed Forces. It was established as a joint strategic staff and functions according to NATO standards.\n\nThe incumbent Chief of the General Staff is Brigadier General Bardhyl Kollçaku\n\nThe development, management and coordination within its land, sea and air components of a joint military force. They are able to fulfill the constitutional mission of safeguarding the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, supporting and protecting the civilians in time of peace, crisis and war, contributing for the peace and security in the region and beyond, and supporting or engaging in the process of Euro-Atlantic integration and cooperation and other regional initiatives in the field of security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15654007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15654007", "title": "All Stars Osvajači", "text": "All Stars Osvajači\n\nAll Stars Osvajači (trans. \"All Stars Conquerors\") is a Serbian rock/pop band. Because its founder was former Osvajači frontman Zvonko Pantović, the band was during the 1999 - 2003 period typically referred to as just \"Osvajači\", which caused confusion among fans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26964606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26964606", "title": "Austria", "text": "Austria\n\nAustria (, ; ), officially the Republic of Austria (, ), is a country of nearly 9 million people in Central Europe. It is bordered by the Czech Republic and Germany to the north, Hungary and Slovakia to the east, Slovenia and Italy to the south, and Switzerland and Liechtenstein to the west. The territory of Austria covers . The terrain is highly mountainous, lying within the Alps; only 32% of the country is below , and its highest point is . The majority of the population speaks local Bavarian dialects of German as their native language, and German in its standard form is the country's official language. Other local official languages are Hungarian, Burgenland Croatian, and Slovene.\n\nAustria is a federal republic with a parliamentary representative democracy comprising nine federated states. The capital and largest city, with a population exceeding 1.8 million, is Vienna. Other major urban areas of Austria include Graz, Linz, Salzburg and Innsbruck. Austria is consistently ranked as one of the richest countries in the world by per capita GDP terms. The country has developed a high standard of living and in 2018 was ranked 20th in the world for its Human Development Index. The republic declared its perpetual neutrality in foreign political affairs in 1955. Austria has been a member of the United Nations since 1955, joined the European Union in 1995, and is a founder of the OECD. Austria also signed the Schengen Agreement in 1995, and adopted the euro currency in 1999.\n\nThe German name for Austria, , derives from the Old High German \"Ostarrîchi\", which meant \"eastern realm\" and which first appeared in the \"Ostarrîchi document\" of 996. This word is probably a translation of Medieval Latin into a local (Bavarian) dialect. Another theory says that this name comes from the local name of the mountain whose original Slovenian name is \"Ostravica\" (sharp mountain) - because it is very steep on both sides.\nAustria was a prefecture of Bavaria created in 976. The word \"Austria\" is a Latinisation of the German name and was first recorded in the 12th century.\nAt the time, the Danube basin of Austria (Upper and Lower Austria) was the easternmost extent of Bavaria.\n\nThe Central European land that is now Austria was settled in pre-Roman times by various Celtic tribes. The Celtic kingdom of Noricum was later claimed by the Roman Empire and made a province. Present-day Petronell-Carnuntum in eastern Austria was an important army camp turned capital city in what became known as the Upper Pannonia province. Carnuntum was home for 50,000 people for nearly 400 years.\n\nAfter the fall of the Roman Empire, the area was invaded by Bavarians, Slavs, and Avars. Charlemagne, King of the Franks, conquered the area in AD 788, encouraged colonization, and introduced Christianity. As part of Eastern Francia, the core areas that now encompass Austria were bequeathed to the house of Babenberg. The area was known as the \"marchia Orientalis\" and was given to Leopold of Babenberg in 976.\n\nThe first record showing the name Austria is from 996, where it is written as \"Ostarrîchi\", referring to the territory of the Babenberg March. In 1156, the Privilegium Minus elevated Austria to the status of a duchy. In 1192, the Babenbergs also acquired the Duchy of Styria. With the death of Frederick II in 1246, the line of the Babenbergs was extinguished.\n\nAs a result, Ottokar II of Bohemia effectively assumed control of the duchies of Austria, Styria, and Carinthia. His reign came to an end with his defeat at Dürnkrut at the hands of Rudolph I of Germany in 1278. Thereafter, until World War I, Austria's history was largely that of its ruling dynasty, the Habsburgs.\n\nIn the 14th and 15th centuries, the Habsburgs began to accumulate other provinces in the vicinity of the Duchy of Austria. In 1438, Duke Albert V of Austria was chosen as the successor to his father-in-law, Emperor Sigismund. Although Albert himself only reigned for a year, henceforth every emperor of the Holy Roman Empire was a Habsburg, with only one exception.\n\nThe Habsburgs began also to accumulate territory far from the hereditary lands. In 1477, Archduke Maximilian, only son of Emperor Frederick III, married the heiress Maria of Burgundy, thus acquiring most of the Netherlands for the family. His son Philip the Fair married Joanna the Mad, the heiress of Castile and Aragon, thus acquired Spain and its Italian, African, and New World appendages for the Habsburgs.\n\nIn 1526, following the Battle of Mohács, Bohemia and the part of Hungary not occupied by the Ottomans came under Austrian rule. Ottoman expansion into Hungary led to frequent conflicts between the two empires, particularly evident in the Long War of 1593 to 1606. The Turks made incursions into Styria nearly 20 times, of which some are cited as \"burning, pillaging, and taking thousands of slaves\". In late September 1529 Suleiman the Magnificent launched the first Siege of Vienna, which unsuccessfully ended, according to Ottoman historians, with the snowfalls of an early beginning winter.\n\nDuring the long reign of Leopold I (1657–1705) and following the successful defence of Vienna against the Turks in 1683 (under the command of the King of Poland, John III Sobieski), a series of campaigns resulted in bringing most of Hungary to Austrian control by the Treaty of Karlowitz in 1699.\n\nEmperor Charles VI relinquished many of the gains the empire made in the previous years, largely due to his apprehensions at the imminent extinction of the House of Habsburg. Charles was willing to offer concrete advantages in territory and authority in exchange for recognition of the Pragmatic Sanction that made his daughter Maria Theresa his heir. With the rise of Prussia, the Austrian–Prussian dualism began in Germany. Austria participated, together with Prussia and Russia, in the first and the third of the three Partitions of Poland (in 1772 and 1795).\n\nAustria later became engaged in a war with Revolutionary France, at the beginning highly unsuccessfully, with successive defeats at the hands of Napoleon, meaning the end of the old Holy Roman Empire in 1806. Two years earlier, the Empire of Austria was founded. From 1792 to 1801, the Austrians had suffered 754,700 casualties. In 1814, Austria was part of the Allied forces that invaded France and brought to an end the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nIt emerged from the Congress of Vienna in 1815 as one of the continent's four dominant powers and a recognised great power. The same year, the German Confederation () was founded under the presidency of Austria. Because of unsolved social, political, and national conflicts, the German lands were shaken by the 1848 revolution aiming to create a unified Germany.\n\nThe various different possibilities for a united Germany were: a Greater Germany, or a Greater Austria or just the German Confederation without Austria at all. As Austria was not willing to relinquish its German-speaking territories to what would become the German Empire of 1848, the crown of the newly formed empire was offered to the Prussian King Friedrich Wilhelm IV. In 1864, Austria and Prussia fought together against Denmark and secured the independence from Denmark of the duchies of Schleswig and Holstein. As they could not agree on how the two duchies should be administered, though, they fought the Austro-Prussian War in 1866. Defeated by Prussia in the Battle of Königgrätz, Austria had to leave the German Confederation and subsequently no longer took part in German politics.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, the \"Ausgleich\", provided for a dual sovereignty, the Austrian Empire and the Kingdom of Hungary, under Franz Joseph I. The Austrian-Hungarian rule of this diverse empire included various Slavic groups, including Croats, Czechs, Poles, Rusyns, Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenes, and Ukrainians, as well as large Italian and Romanian communities.\n\nAs a result, ruling Austria–Hungary became increasingly difficult in an age of emerging nationalist movements, requiring considerable reliance on an expanded secret police. Yet, the government of Austria tried its best to be accommodating in some respects: The \"Reichsgesetzblatt\", publishing the laws and ordinances of Cisleithania, was issued in eight languages; all national groups were entitled to schools in their own language and to the use of their mother tongue at state offices, for example.\n\nMany Austrians of all different social circles such as Georg Ritter von Schönerer promoted strong pan-Germanism in hope of reinforcing an ethnic German identity and the annexation of Austria to Germany. Some Austrians such as Karl Lueger also used pan-Germanism as a form of populism to further their own political goals. Although Bismarck's policies excluded Austria and the German Austrians from Germany, many Austrian pan-Germans idolized him and wore blue cornflowers, known to be the favourite flower of German Emperor William I, in their buttonholes, along with cockades in the German national colours (black, red, and yellow), although they were both temporarily banned in Austrian schools, as a way to show discontent towards the multi-ethnic empire.\n\nAustria's exclusion from Germany caused many Austrians a problem with their national identity and prompted the Social Democratic Leader Otto Bauer to state that it was \"the conflict between our Austrian and German character.\" The Austro-Hungarian Empire caused ethnic tension between the German Austrians and the other ethnic groups. Many Austrians, especially those involved with the pan-German movements, desired for the reinforcement of an ethnic German identity and hoped that the empire would collapse which would subsequently allow an annexation of Austria with Germany.\n\nA lot of Austrian pan-German nationalists protested passionately against minister-president Kasimir Count Badeni's language decree of 1897, which made German and Czech co-official languages in Bohemia and required new government officials to be fluent in both languages. This meant in practice that the civil service would almost exclusively hire Czechs, because most middle-class Czechs spoke the German language, but not the other way around. The support of ultramontane Catholic politicians and clergy for this reform triggered the launch of the \"Away from Rome\" () movement, which was initiated by supporters of Schönerer and called on \"German\" Christians to leave the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nAs the Second Constitutional Era began in the Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary took the opportunity to annex Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908. The\nassassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914 by Bosnian Serb Gavrilo Princip was used by leading Austrian politicians and generals to persuade the emperor to declare war on Serbia, thereby risking and prompting the outbreak of World War I, but it was not the only cause of the war. which eventually led to the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Over one million Austro-Hungarian soldiers died in World War I.\n\nOn 21 October 1918, the elected German members of the \"Reichsrat\" (parliament of Imperial Austria) met in Vienna as the Provisional National Assembly for German Austria (\"Provisorische Nationalversammlung für Deutschösterreich\"). On 30 October the assembly founded the Republic of German Austria by appointing a government, called \"Staatsrat\". This new government was invited by the Emperor to take part in the decision on the planned armistice with Italy, but refrained from this business.\n\nThis left the responsibility for the end of the war, on 3 November 1918, solely to the emperor and his government. On 11 November, the emperor, advised by ministers of the old and the new governments, declared he would not take part in state business any more; on 12 November, German Austria, by law, declared itself to be a democratic republic and part of the new German republic. The constitution, renaming the \"Staatsrat\" as \"Bundesregierung\" (federal government) and \"Nationalversammlung\" as \"Nationalrat\" (national council) was passed on 10 November 1920.\n\nThe Treaty of Saint-Germain of 1919 (for Hungary the Treaty of Trianon of 1920) confirmed and consolidated the new order of Central Europe which to a great extent had been established in November 1918, creating new states and altering others. The German-speaking parts of Austria which had been part of Austria-Hungary were reduced to a rump state named The Republic of German-Austria (German: \"Republik Deutschösterreich\"). The desire for \"Anschluss\" (annexation of Austria to Germany) was a popular opinion shared by all social circles in both Austria and Germany. On 12 November, German-Austria was declared a republic, and named Social Democrat Karl Renner as provisional chancellor. On the same day it drafted a provisional constitution that stated that \"German-Austria is a democratic republic\" (Article 1) and \"German-Austria is an integral part of the German reich\" (Article 2). The Treaty of Saint Germain and the Treaty of Versailles explicitly forbid union between Austria and Germany. The treaties also forced German-Austria to rename itself as \"Republic of Austria\" which consequently led to the first Austrian Republic.\n\nOver 3 million German-speaking Austrians found themselves living outside the new Austrian Republic as minorities in the newly formed or enlarged states of Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Hungary, and Italy. These included the provinces of South Tyrol (which became part of Italy) and German Bohemia (Czechoslovakia). The status of German Bohemia (Sudetenland) later played a role in sparking the Second World War.\n\nThe status of South Tyrol was a lingering problem between Austria and Italy until it was officially settled by the 1980s with a great degree of autonomy being granted to it by the Italian national government. Between 1918 and 1919, Austria was known as the State of German Austria (). Not only did the Entente powers forbid German Austria to unite with Germany, but they also rejected the name German Austria in the peace treaty to be signed; it was, therefore, changed to Republic of Austria in late 1919.\n\nThe border between Austria and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia) was settled with the Carinthian Plebiscite in October 1920 and allocated the major part of the territory of the former Austro-Hungarian Crownland of Carinthia to Austria. This set the border on the Karawanken mountain range, with many Slovenes remaining in Austria.\n\nAfter the war, inflation began to devalue the Krone, which was still Austria's currency. In autumn 1922, Austria was granted an international loan supervised by the League of Nations. The purpose of the loan was to avert bankruptcy, stabilise the currency, and improve Austria's general economic condition. The loan meant that Austria passed from an independent state to the control exercised by the League of Nations. In 1925, the \"Schilling\" was introduced, replacing the Krone at a rate of 10,000:1. Later, it was nicknamed the \"Alpine dollar\" due to its stability. From 1925 to 1929, the economy enjoyed a short high before nearly crashing after Black Tuesday.\n\nThe First Austrian Republic lasted until 1933, when Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, using what he called \"self-switch-off of Parliament\", established an autocratic regime tending towards Italian fascism. The two big parties at this time, the Social Democrats and the Conservatives, had paramilitary armies; the Social Democrats' \"Schutzbund\" was now declared illegal, but was still operative as civil war broke out.\n\nIn February 1934, several members of the \"Schutzbund\" were executed, the Social Democratic party was outlawed, and many of its members were imprisoned or emigrated. On 1 May 1934, the Austrofascists imposed a new constitution (\"Maiverfassung\") which cemented Dollfuss's power, but on 25 July he was assassinated in a Nazi coup attempt.\n\nHis successor Kurt Schuschnigg acknowledged Austria as a \"German state\" and that Austrians were \"better Germans\" but wished for Austria to remain independent. He announced a referendum on 9 March 1938, to be held on 13 March, concerning Austria's independence from Germany. On 12 March 1938, Austrian Nazis took over government, while German troops occupied the country, which prevented Schuschnigg's referendum from taking place. On 13 March 1938, the \"Anschluss\" of Austria was officially declared. Two days later, Austrian-born Hitler announced what he called the \"reunification\" of his home country with the \"rest of the German Reich\" on Vienna's Heldenplatz. He established a plebiscite confirming the union with Germany in April 1938.\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Germany (including recently annexed Austria) on 10 April 1938. They were the final elections to the Reichstag during Nazi rule, and took the form of a single-question referendum asking whether voters approved of a single Nazi-party list for the 813-member Reichstag, as well as the recent annexation of Austria (the Anschluss). Jews and Gypsies were not allowed to vote. Turnout in the election was officially 99.5%, with 98.9% voting \"yes\". In the case of Austria, Adolf Hitler's native soil, 99.71% of an electorate of 4,484,475 officially went to the ballots, with a positive tally of 99.73%. Although most Austrians favoured the \"Anschluss\", in certain parts of Austria the German soldiers were not always welcomed with flowers and joy, especially in Vienna which had Austria's largest Jewish population. Nevertheless, despite the propaganda and the manipulation and rigging which surrounded the ballot box result, there was massive genuine support for Hitler for fulfilling the \"Anschluss\", since many Germans from both Austria and Germany saw it as completing the long overdue German unification of all Germans united into one-state.\n\nOn 12 March 1938, Austria was annexed to the Third Reich and ceased to exist as an independent country. The Aryanisation of the wealth of Jewish Austrians started immediately in mid-March, with a so-called \"wild\" (i.e. extra-legal) phase, but was soon structured legally and bureaucratically to strip Jewish citizens of any assets they possessed. The Nazis renamed Austria in 1938 as \"Ostmark\" until 1942, when it was again renamed and called \"Alpine and Danubian Gaue\" (Alpen-und Donau-Reichsgaue).\n\nThough Austrians made up only 8% of the population of the Third Reich, some of the most prominent Nazis were native Austrians, including Adolf Hitler, Ernst Kaltenbrunner, Arthur Seyss-Inquart, Franz Stangl, and Odilo Globocnik, as were over 13% of the SS and 40% of the staff at the Nazi extermination camps. Vienna fell on 13 April 1945, during the Soviet Vienna Offensive, just before the total collapse of the Third Reich. The invading Allied powers, in particular the Americans, planned for the supposed \"Alpine Fortress Operation\" of a national redoubt, that was largely to have taken place on Austrian soil in the mountains of the eastern Alps. However, it never materialised because of the rapid collapse of the Reich.\n\nKarl Renner and Adolf Schärf (Socialist Party of Austria [Social Democrats and Revolutionary Socialists]), Leopold Kunschak (Austria's People's Party [former Christian Social People's Party]), and Johann Koplenig (Communist Party of Austria) declared Austria's secession from the Third Reich by the Declaration of Independence on 27 April 1945 and set up a provisional government in Vienna under state Chancellor Renner the same day, with the approval of the victorious Red Army and backed by Joseph Stalin. (The date is officially named the birthday of the second republic.) At the end of April, most of western and southern Austria were still under Nazi rule. On 1 May 1945, the federal constitution of 1929, which had been terminated by dictator Dollfuss on 1 May 1934, was declared valid again.\n\nTotal military deaths from 1939 to 1945 are estimated at 260,000. Jewish Holocaust victims totalled 65,000. About 140,000 Jewish Austrians had fled the country in 1938–39. Thousands of Austrians had taken part in serious Nazi crimes (hundreds of thousands died in Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp alone), a fact officially recognised by Chancellor Franz Vranitzky in 1992.\n\nMuch like Germany, Austria was divided into American, British, French, and Soviet zones and governed by the Allied Commission for Austria. As forecast in the Moscow Declaration in 1943, a subtle difference was seen in the treatment of Austria by the Allies. The Austrian government, consisting of Social Democrats, Conservatives, and Communists (until 1947), and residing in Vienna, which was surrounded by the Soviet zone, was recognised by the Western Allies in October 1945 after some doubts that Renner could be Stalin's puppet. Thus, the creation of a separate Western Austrian government and the division of the country was avoidable. Austria, in general, was treated as though it had been originally invaded by Germany and liberated by the Allies.\n\nOn 15 May 1955, after talks which lasted for years and were influenced by the Cold War, Austria regained full independence by concluding the Austrian State Treaty with the Four Occupying Powers. On 26 October 1955, after all occupation troops had left, Austria declared its \"permanent neutrality\" by an act of parliament. This day is now Austria's National Day, a public holiday.\n\nThe political system of the Second Republic is based on the constitution of 1920 and 1929, which was reintroduced in 1945. The system came to be characterised by \"Proporz\", meaning that most posts of political importance were split evenly between members of the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ) and the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). Interest group \"chambers\" with mandatory membership (e.g. for workers, business people, farmers) grew to considerable importance and were usually consulted in the legislative process, so hardly any legislation was passed that did not reflect widespread consensus.\n\nSince 1945, governing via a single-party government has occurred twice: 1966–1970 (ÖVP) and 1970–1983 (SPÖ). During all other legislative periods, either a grand coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP or a \"small coalition\" (one of these two and a smaller party) ruled the country.\n\nKurt Waldheim, a Wehrmacht officer in the Second World War accused of war crimes, was elected President of Austria from 1986 to 1992.\n\nFollowing a referendum in 1994, at which consent reached a majority of two-thirds, the country became a member of the European Union on 1 January 1995.\n\nThe major parties SPÖ and ÖVP have contrary opinions about the future status of Austria's military nonalignment: While the SPÖ in public supports a neutral role, the ÖVP argues for stronger integration into the EU's security policy; even a future NATO membership is not ruled out by some ÖVP politicians (ex. Dr Werner Fasslabend (OVP) in 1997). In reality, Austria is taking part in the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy, participates in peacekeeping and peace creating tasks, and has become a member of NATO's \"Partnership for Peace\"; the constitution has been amended accordingly. Since Liechtenstein joined the Schengen Area in 2011, none of Austria's neighbouring countries performs border controls towards it anymore.\n\nThe Parliament of Austria is located in Vienna, the country's largest city and capital. Austria became a federal, representative democratic republic through the Federal Constitution of 1920. The political system of the Second Republic with its nine states is based on the constitution of 1920, amended in 1929, which was reenacted on 1 May 1945.\n\nThe head of state is the Federal President (\"Bundespräsident\"), who is directly elected by popular vote. The chairman of the Federal Government is the Federal Chancellor, who is appointed by the President. The government can be removed from office by either a presidential decree or by vote of no confidence in the lower chamber of parliament, the Nationalrat. Voting for the Federal President and for the Parliament used to be compulsory in Austria, but this was abolished in steps from 1982 to 2004.\n\nThe Parliament of Austria consists of two chambers. The composition of the Nationalrat (183 seats) is determined every five years (or whenever the Nationalrat has been dissolved by the federal president on a motion by the federal chancellor, or by Nationalrat itself) by a general election in which every citizen over 16 years (since 2007) has voting rights. While there is a general threshold of 4% for all parties at federal elections (Nationalratswahlen), there remains the possibility to gain a direct seat, or , in one of the 43 regional election districts.\n\nThe Nationalrat is the dominant chamber in the formation of legislation in Austria. However, the upper house of parliament, the Bundesrat, has a limited right of veto (the Nationalrat can—in almost all cases—ultimately pass the respective bill by voting a second time. This is referred to as \"'Beharrungsbeschluss\", lit. \"vote of persistence\"). A convention, called the was convened on 30 June 2003 to decide upon suggestions to reform the constitution, but failed to produce a proposal that would receive the two-thirds of votes in the Nationalrat necessary for constitutional amendments and/or reform.\n\nWith legislative and executive, the courts are the third column of Austrian state powers. Notably the Constitutional Court (\"Verfassungsgerichtshof\") may exert considerable influence on the political system by ruling out laws and ordinances not in compliance with the constitution. Since 1995, the European Court of Justice may overrule Austrian decisions in all matters defined in laws of the European Union. Austria also implements the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, since the European Convention on Human Rights is part of the Austrian constitution.\n\nAfter general elections held in October 2006, the Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) emerged as the strongest party, and the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) came in second, having lost about 8% of its previous polling. Political realities prohibited any of the two major parties from forming a coalition with smaller parties. In January 2007 the People's Party and SPÖ formed a grand coalition with the social democrat Alfred Gusenbauer as Chancellor. This coalition broke up in June 2008.\n\nElections in September 2008 further weakened both major parties (SPÖ and ÖVP) but together they still held 70% of the votes, with the Social Democrats holding slightly more than the other party. They formed a coalition with Werner Faymann from the Social Democrats as Chancellor. The Green Party came in third with 11% of the vote. The FPÖ and the deceased Jörg Haider's new party Alliance for the Future of Austria, both on the political right, were strengthened during the election but taken together received less than 20% of the vote.\n\nIn the legislative elections of 2013, the Social Democratic Party received 27% of the vote and 52 seats; People's Party 24% and 47 seats, thus controlling together the majority of the seats. The Freedom Party received 40 seats and 21% of the votes, while the Greens received 12% and 24 seats. Two new parties, Stronach and the NEOS, received less than 10% of the vote, and 11 and nine seats respectively.\n\nAfter the Grand Coalition broke in Spring 2017 a snap election was proclaimed for October 2017. The Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) with its new young leader Sebastian Kurz emerged as the largest party in the National Council, winning 31.5% of votes and 62 of the 183 seats. The Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) finished second with 52 seats and 26.9% votes, slightly ahead of the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ), which received 51 seats and 26%. NEOS finished fourth with 10 seats (5.3 percent of votes), and PILZ (which split from the Green Party at the start of the campaign) entered parliament for the first time and came in fifth place with 8 seats and 4.4% The Green Party failed with 3.8% to cross the 4% threshold and was ejected from parliament, losing all of its 24 seats. The ÖVP has decided to form a coalation with the FPÖ, the new government between the center-right wing and the right-wing populist party under the new chancellor Sebastian Kurz was sworn in on 18 December. 2017.\n\nThe 1955 Austrian State Treaty ended the occupation of Austria following World War II and recognised Austria as an independent and sovereign state. On 26 October 1955, the Federal Assembly passed a constitutional article in which \"Austria declares of her own free will her perpetual neutrality\". The second section of this law stated that \"in all future times Austria will not join any military alliances and will not permit the establishment of any foreign military bases on her territory\". Since then, Austria has shaped its foreign policy on the basis of neutrality, but rather different from the neutrality of Switzerland.\n\nAustria began to reassess its definition of neutrality following the fall of the Soviet Union, granting overflight rights for the UN-sanctioned action against Iraq in 1991, and since 1995, it has developed participation in the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy. Also in 1995, it joined NATO's Partnership for Peace and subsequently participated in peacekeeping missions in Bosnia. Meanwhile, the only part of the Constitutional Law on Neutrality of 1955 still fully valid is not to allow foreign military bases in Austria.\n\nAustria attaches great importance to participation in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other international economic organisations, and it has played an active role in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). As an OSCE-participating State, Austria's international commitments are subject to monitoring under the mandate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission.\n\nThe manpower of the Austrian Armed Forces () mainly relies on conscription. All males who have reached the age of eighteen and are found fit have to serve a six months compulsory military service, followed by an eight-year reserve obligation. Both males and females at the age of sixteen are eligible for voluntary service. Conscientious objection is legally acceptable and those who claim this right are obliged to serve an institutionalised nine months civilian service instead. Since 1998, women volunteers have been allowed to become professional soldiers.\n\nThe main sectors of the Bundesheer are Joint Forces (Streitkräfteführungskommando, SKFüKdo) which consist of Land Forces (Landstreitkräfte), Air Forces (Luftstreitkräfte), International Missions (Internationale Einsätze) and Special Forces (Spezialeinsatzkräfte), next to Joint Mission Support Command (Kommando Einsatzunterstützung; KdoEU) and Joint Command Support Centre (Führungsunterstützungszentrum; FüUZ). Austria is a landlocked country and has no navy.\n\nIn 2012, Austria's defence expenditures corresponded to approximately 0.8% of its GDP. The Army currently has about 26,000 soldiers, of whom about 12,000 are conscripts. As head of state, Austrian President is nominally the Commander-in-Chief of the Bundesheer. Command of the Austrian Armed Forces is exercised by the Minister of Defence, : Mario Kunasek.\n\nSince the end of the Cold War, and more importantly the removal of the former heavily guarded \"Iron Curtain\" separating Austria and its Eastern Bloc neighbours (Hungary and former Czechoslovakia), the Austrian military has been assisting Austrian border guards in trying to prevent border crossings by illegal immigrants. This assistance came to an end when Hungary and Slovakia joined the EU Schengen Area in 2008, for all intents and purposes abolishing \"internal\" border controls between treaty states. Some politicians have called for a prolongation of this mission, but the legality of this is heavily disputed. In accordance with the Austrian constitution, armed forces may only be deployed in a limited number of cases, mainly to defend the country and aid in cases of national emergency, such as in the wake of natural disasters. They may generally not be used as auxiliary police forces.\n\nWithin its self-declared status of permanent neutrality, Austria has a long and proud tradition of engaging in UN-led peacekeeping and other humanitarian missions. The Austrian Forces Disaster Relief Unit (AFDRU), in particular, an all-volunteer unit with close ties to civilian specialists (e.g. rescue dog handlers) enjoys a reputation as a quick (standard deployment time is 10 hours) and efficient SAR unit. Currently, larger contingents of Austrian forces are deployed in Bosnia and Kosovo.\n\nAs a federal republic, Austria is divided into nine states (). These states are then divided into districts () and statutory cities (). Districts are subdivided into municipalities (). Statutory Cities have the competencies otherwise granted to both districts and municipalities. The states are not mere administrative divisions but have some legislative authority distinct from the federal government, e.g. in matters of culture, social care, youth and nature protection, hunting, building, and zoning ordinances. In recent years, it has been discussed whether today it is appropriate for a small country to maintain ten parliaments.\n\nThe Ministry in charge of the Austrian corrections system is the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice is based out of the UK and is supported through multiple European countries. The head of the prison administration falls under the title of Director General. The current Director General is Christian Schnattler. The total prison population rate is 8,290 people, and that does not include an additional 719 people in psychiatric care and home arrest. The prison population rate per 100,000 of national population is 94. The prison population rate has been fairly steady since 2010. The population percentages of the prison system is broken down into 4 categories with the percentages being from July 2017. The categories are pre-trial detainees, female prisoners, juvenile prisoners, and foreign prisoners. Pre-trial detainees make up 23.6%, female prisoners make up 5.7%, juveniles make up 1.4%, and foreign prisoners make up 54.2% of the prison system. The Austrian corrections system consists of 27 institutions, with an official capacity of 8,738 people. As reported in July 2017 they are currently at 94.9% maximum capacity(“Austria.”). The population percentage for Austria's prison system has had very little fluctuation since 2010. Since 2000 the population has risen over 2,000 and has stayed pretty well stabilized at over 8,000. Austria is ranked number 105 in prison pollution in the world(\"Highest to Lowest - Occupancy level (based on official capacity)”).\n\nAustria is a largely mountainous country due to its location in the Alps. The Central Eastern Alps, Northern Limestone Alps and Southern Limestone Alps are all partly in Austria. Of the total area of Austria (), only about a quarter can be considered low lying, and only 32% of the country is below . The Alps of western Austria give way somewhat into low lands and plains in the eastern part of the country.\n\nAustria lies between latitudes 46° and 49° N, and longitudes 9° and 18° E.\n\nIt can be divided into five areas, the biggest being the Eastern Alps, which constitute 62% of the nation's total area. The Austrian foothills at the base of the Alps and the Carpathians account for around 12% and the foothills in the east and areas surrounding the periphery of the Pannoni low country amount to about 12% of the total landmass. The second greater mountain area (much lower than the Alps) is situated in the north. Known as the Austrian granite plateau, it is located in the central area of the Bohemian Mass and accounts for 10% of Austria. The Austrian portion of the Vienna basin comprises the remaining 4%.\n\nThe six highest mountains in Austria are:\n\nPhytogeographically, Austria belongs to the Central European province of the Circumboreal Region within the Boreal Kingdom. According to the WWF, the territory of Austria can be subdivided into four ecoregions: the Central European mixed forests, Pannonian mixed forests, Alps conifer and mixed forests and Western European broadleaf forests.\n\nThe greater part of Austria lies in the cool/temperate climate zone, where humid westerly winds predominate. With nearly three-quarters of the country dominated by the Alps, the alpine climate is predominant. In the east—in the Pannonian Plain and along the Danube valley—the climate shows continental features with less rain than the alpine areas. Although Austria is cold in the winter (−10 to 0 °C), summer temperatures can be relatively high, with average temperatures in the mid-20s and a highest temperature of in August 2013.\n\nAccording to the Köppen Climate Classification Austria has the following climate types: Oceanic (Cfb), Cool/Warm-summer humid continental (Dfb), Subarctic/Subalpine (Dfc), Tundra/Alpine (ET) and Ice-Cap (EF). It is important to note though that Austria may experience very cold, severe winters, but most of the time they are only around as cold as those in somewhat comparable climate zones, for example Southern Scandinavia or Eastern Europe. As well, at higher altitudes, summers are usually considerably cooler than in the valleys/lower altitudes. The subarctic and tundra climates seen around the Alps are much warmer in winter than what is normal elsewhere due in part to the Oceanic influence on this part of Europe.\n<br>\n\nAustria consistently ranks high in terms of GDP per capita, due to its highly industrialized economy, and well-developed social market economy. Until the 1980s, many of Austria's largest industry firms were nationalised; in recent years, however, privatisation has reduced state holdings to a level comparable to other European economies. Labour movements are particularly influential, exercising large influence on labour politics and decisions related to the expansion of the economy. Next to a highly developed industry, international tourism is the most important part of the economy of Austria.\n\nGermany has historically been the main trading partner of Austria, making it vulnerable to rapid changes in the German economy. Since Austria became a member state of the European Union, it has gained closer ties to other EU economies, reducing its economic dependence on Germany. In addition, membership of the EU has drawn an influx of foreign investors attracted by Austria's access to the single European market and proximity to the aspiring economies of the European Union. Growth in GDP reached 3.3% in 2006. At least 67% of Austria's imports come from other European Union member states.\n\nAustria indicated on 16 November 2010 that it would withhold the December installment of its contribution to the EU bailout of Greece, citing the material worsening of the Greek debt situation and the apparent inability of Greece to collect the level of tax receipts it had previously promised.\n\nThe Financial crisis of 2007–2008 dented the economy of Austria in other ways as well. It caused, for example, the Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International to be purchased in December 2009 by the government for 1 euro owing to credit difficulties, thus wiping out the €1.63bn of BayernLB. , the HGAA situation was unresolved, causing Chancellor Werner Faymann to warn that its failure would be comparable to the 1931 Creditanstalt event.\n\nSince the fall of communism, Austrian companies have been quite active players and consolidators in Eastern Europe. Between 1995 and 2010, 4,868 mergers and acquisitions with a total known value of 163 bil. EUR with the involvement of Austrian firms have been announced. The largest transactions with involvement of Austrian companies have been: the acquisition of Bank Austria by Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank for 7.8 billion EUR in 2000, the acquisition of Porsche Holding Salzburg by Volkswagen Group for 3.6 billion EUR in 2009, and the acquisition of Banca Comercială Română by Erste Group for 3.7 bil. EUR in 2005.\n\nTourism in Austria accounts for almost 9% of its gross domestic product.\nIn 2007, Austria ranked 9th worldwide in international tourism receipts, with 18.9 billion US$. In international tourist arrivals, Austria ranked 12th with 20.8 million tourists.\n\nIn 1972, the country began construction of a nuclear-powered electricity-generation station at Zwentendorf on the River Danube, following a unanimous vote in parliament. However, in 1978, a referendum voted approximately 50.5% against nuclear power, 49.5% for, and parliament subsequently unanimously passed a law forbidding the use of nuclear power to generate electricity although the nuclear power plant was already finished.\n\nAustria currently produces more than half of its electricity by hydropower. Together with other renewable energy sources such as wind, solar and biomass powerplants, the electricity supply from renewable energy amounts to 62.89% of total use in Austria, with the rest being produced by gas and oil power plants.\n\nAustria's population was estimated to be nearly 9 million (8.83) in 2018 by the Statistik Austria. The population of the capital, Vienna, exceeds 1.8 million (2.6 million, including the suburbs), representing about a quarter of the country's population. It is known for its cultural offerings and high standard of living.\n\nVienna is by far the country's largest city. Graz is second in size, with 265,778 inhabitants, followed by Linz (191,501), Salzburg (145,871), and Innsbruck (122,458). All other cities have fewer than 100,000 inhabitants.\n\nAccording to Eurostat, in 2010 there were 1.27 million foreign-born residents in Austria, corresponding to 15.2% of the total population. Of these, 764,000 (9.1%) were born outside the EU and 512,000 (6.1%) were born in another EU Member State.\n\nStatistik Austria estimated in 2011 that 81% or 6.75 million residents had no migration background and more than 19% or 1.6 million inhabitants had at least one or more parents of migration background. There are more than 415,000 descendants of foreign-born immigrants residing in Austria, the great majority of whom have been naturalised.\n\n185,592 Turks (including a minority of Turkish Kurds) make up the second biggest single ethnic minority in Austria after Germans (2.5%), representing 2.2% of the total population.\n13,000 Turks were naturalised in 2003 and an unknown number have arrived in Austria at the same time. While 2,000 Turks left Austria in the same year, 10,000 immigrated to the country, confirming a strong trend of growth. Together, Serbs, Croats, Bosniaks and Slovenes make up about 5.1% of Austria's total population.\n\nThe total fertility rate (TFR) in 2013 was estimated at 1.42 children born per woman, which is lower than the replacement rate of 2.1. In 2015, 42.1% of births were to unmarried women. The life expectancy in 2016 was estimated at 81.5 years (78.9 years male, 84.3 years female).\n\nForeign-born population – top 15 countries:\n\nAustrian German is Austria's official language and used in education, publications, announcements and websites. It is mostly identical to the German used in Germany but with some vocabulary differences. The German language is standardised between countries of German mother tongue, i.e., Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, as well as those with significant German speaking minorities: Italy, Belgium and Denmark. Many local dialects are spoken in Austria, and though their base is Austrian German, their corresponding speakers have certain degrees of difficulty when trying to understand each other.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, Austrian German is spoken natively by 88.6% of the population (including the 2.5% German citizens who reside in Austria) — followed by Turkish (2.28%), Serbian (2.21%), Croatian (1.63%), English (0.73%), Hungarian (0.51%), Bosnian (0.43%), Polish (0.35%), Albanian (0.35%), Slovenian (0.31%), Czech (0.22%), Arabic (0.22%), and Romanian (0.21%).\n\nThe Austrian federal states of Carinthia and Styria are home to a significant indigenous Slovene-speaking minority while in the easternmost state, Burgenland (formerly part of the Hungarian portion of Austria–Hungary), there are significant Hungarian- and Croatian-speaking minorities. Of the remaining number of Austria's people that are of non-Austrian descent, many come from surrounding countries, especially from the former East Bloc nations. Guest workers \"(Gastarbeiter)\" and their descendants, as well as refugees from the Yugoslav wars and other conflicts, also form an important minority group in Austria. Since 1994 the Roma–Sinti (gypsies) have been an officially recognised ethnic minority in Austria.\n\nAccording to census information published by Statistik Austria for 2001 there were a total of 710,926 foreign nationals living in Austria. Of these, the largest by far are 283,334 foreign nationals from the former Yugoslavia (of whom 135,336 speak Serbian; 105,487 Croatian; 31,591 Bosnian – i.e. 272,414 Austrian resident native speakers in total, plus 6,902 Slovenian and 4,018 Macedonian speakers).\n\nThe second largest population of linguistic and ethnic groups are the Turks (including minority of Kurds) with a number of 200,000 to 300,000 who currently live in Austria. The Turks and the Kurds are the largest single immigrant group in Austria, closely followed by the Serbs.\n\nThe next largest population of linguistic and ethnic groups are the 124,392 who speak German as their mother tongue even though they hail from outside of Austria (mainly immigrants from Germany, some from Switzerland, South Tyrol in Italy, Romania, or the former Soviet Union); 123,417 English; 24,446 Albanian; 17,899 Polish; 14,699 Hungarian; 12,216 Romanian; 10,000 Malayali; 7,982 Arabic; 6,891 Slovak; 6,707 Czech; 5,916 Persian; 5,677 Italian; 5,466 Russian; 5,213 French; 4,938 Chinese; 4,264 Spanish; 3,503 Bulgarian. The numbers for other languages fall off sharply below 3,000.\n\nIn 2006, some of the Austrian states introduced standardised tests for new citizens, to assure their language ability, cultural knowledge and accordingly their ability to integrate into the Austrian society. For the national rules, see Austrian nationality law – Naturalisation.\n\nHistorically Austrians were regarded as ethnic Germans and viewed themselves as such, although this national identity was challenged by Austrian nationalism in the decades after the end of World War I and even more so after World War II. Austria was part of the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation until its ending in 1806 and had been part of the German Confederation, a loose association of 39 separate German-speaking countries, until the Austro-Prussian war in 1866, which resulted in the exclusion of Austria from the German Confederation and the creation of the North German Confederation led by Prussia. In 1871, Germany was founded as a nation-state, Austria was not a part of it. After World War I and the breakup of the Austrian monarchy, politicians of the new republic declared its name to be \"Deutschösterreich\" (Republic of German-Austria) and that it was part of the German Republic. A unification of the two countries was forbidden by the treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye as one of the conditions imposed by the victorious Allies of World War I upon the vanquished nation, to prevent the creation of a territorially extensive German state. After the events of World War II and Nazism, Austria as a country has made efforts to develop an Austrian national identity among its populace, and nowadays most do not consider themselves Germans. However, a minority of Austrians still consider themselves to be Germans and advocate for a \"Greater Germany\", arguing that the historic boundaries of the German people goes beyond the boundaries of modern-day countries, especially Austria and Germany.\n\nAustrians may be described either as a nationality or as a homogeneous Germanic ethnic group, that is closely related to neighboring Germans, Liechtensteiners and German-speaking Swiss. Today 91.1% of the population are regarded as ethnic Austrians.\n\nSerbs form one of the largest ethnic groups in Austria, numbering around 300,000 people. Historically, Serbian immigrants moved to Austria during the time of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, when Vojvodina was under Imperial control. Following World War II the number of Serbs expanded again, and today the community is very large. The Austrian Serbian Society was founded in 1936. Today, Serbs in Austria are mainly found in Vienna, Salzburg, and Graz.\n\nAn estimated 13,000 to 40,000 Slovenes in the Austrian state of Carinthia (the Carinthian Slovenes) as well as Croats (around 30,000) and Hungarians in Burgenland were recognised as a minority and have had special rights following the Austrian State Treaty () of 1955. The Slovenes in the Austrian state of Styria (estimated at a number between 1,600 and 5,000) are not recognised as a minority and do not have special rights, although some believe the State Treaty of 27 July 1955 states otherwise.\n\nThe right for bilingual topographic signs for the regions where Slovene and Croat Austrians live alongside the German-speaking population (as required by the 1955 State Treaty) is still to be fully implemented in the view of some, while others believe that the treaty-derived obligations have been met (see below). Many Carinthians are afraid of Slovenian territorial claims, pointing to the fact that Yugoslav troops entered the state after each of the two World Wars and considering that some official Slovenian atlases show parts of Carinthia as Slovene cultural territory. The recently deceased governor, Jörg Haider, has made this fact a matter of public argument in autumn 2005 by refusing to increase the number of bilingual topographic signs in Carinthia. A poll by the Kärntner Humaninstitut conducted in January 2006 states that 65% of Carinthians are not in favour of an increase of bilingual topographic signs, since the original requirements set by the State Treaty of 1955 have already been fulfilled according to their point of view.\n\nAnother interesting phenomenon is the so-called \"\" stating that the Slovenes can be split in two groups: actual Slovenes and \"Windische\" (a traditional German name for Slavs), based on differences in language between Austrian Slovenes, who were taught Slovene standard language in school and those Slovenes who spoke their local Slovene dialect but went to German schools. The term \"Windische\" was applied to the latter group as a means of distinction. This politically influenced theory, dividing Slovene Austrians into the \"loyal Windische\" and the \"national Slovenes\", was never generally accepted and fell out of use some decades ago.\n\nIn 2001, about 74% of Austria's population were registered as Roman Catholic, while about 5% considered themselves Protestants. Austrian Christians, both Catholic and Protestant, are obliged to pay a mandatory membership fee (calculated by income—about 1%) to their church; this payment is called \"Kirchenbeitrag\" (\"Ecclesiastical/Church contribution\"). Since the second half of the 20th century, the number of adherents and churchgoers has declined. Data for 2017 from the Austrian Roman Catholic Church list 5,112,330 members, or 57.9% of the total Austrian population. Sunday church attendance was 605,828 or 7% of the total Austrian population in 2015. The Lutheran church also recorded a loss of 74,421 adherents between 2001 and 2016.\n\nThe 2001 census report indicated that about 12% of the population declared that they have no religion; according to ecclesiastical information this share had grown to 20% by 2015. Of the remaining people, around 340,000 were registered as members of various Muslim communities in 2001, mainly due to the influx from Turkey, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo. The number of Muslims has doubled in 15 years to 700,000 in 2016. About 180,000 are members of Orthodox Churches (mostly Serbs), about 21,000 people are active Jehovah's Witnesses and about 8,100 are Jewish.\n\nAccording to the most recent Eurobarometer Poll 2010,\n\nEducation in Austria is entrusted partly to the Austrian states (Bundesländer) and partly to the federal government. School attendance is compulsory for nine years, i.e. usually to the age of fifteen.\n\nPre-school education (called \"Kindergarten\" in German), free in most states, is provided for all children between the ages of three and six years and, whilst optional, is considered a normal part of a child's education due to its high takeup rate. Maximum class size is around 30, each class normally being cared for by one qualified teacher and one assistant.\n\nPrimary education, or Volksschule, lasts for four years, starting at age six. The maximum class size is 30, but may be as low as 15. It is generally expected that a class will be taught by one teacher for the entire four years and the stable bond between teacher and pupil is considered important for a child's well-being. The 3Rs (Reading, wRiting and aRithmetic) dominate lesson time, with less time allotted to project work than in the UK. Children work individually and all members of a class follow the same plan of work. There is no streaming.\n\nStandard attendance times are 8 am to 12 pm or 1 pm, with hourly five- or ten-minute breaks. Children are given homework daily from the first year. Historically there has been no lunch hour, with children returning home to eat. However, due to a rise in the number of mothers in work, primary schools are increasingly offering pre-lesson and afternoon care.\n\nAs in Germany, secondary education consists of two main types of schools, attendance at which is based on a pupil's ability as determined by grades from the primary school. The Gymnasium caters for the more able children, in the final year of which the Matura examination is taken, which is a requirement for access to university. The Hauptschule prepares pupils for vocational education but also for various types of further education (Höhere Technische Lehranstalt HTL = institution of higher technical education; HAK = commercial academy; HBLA = institution of higher education for economic business; etc.). Attendance at one of these further education institutes also leads to the Matura. Some schools aim to combine the education available at the Gymnasium and the Hauptschule, and are known as Gesamtschulen. In addition, a recognition of the importance of learning English has led some Gymnasiums to offer a bilingual stream, in which pupils deemed able in languages follow a modified curriculum, a portion of the lesson time being conducted in English.\n\nAs at primary school, lessons at Gymnasium begin at 8 am and continue with short intervals until lunchtime or early afternoon, with children returning home to a late lunch. Older pupils often attend further lessons after a break for lunch, generally eaten at school. As at primary level, all pupils follow the same plan of work. Great emphasis is placed on homework and frequent testing. Satisfactory marks in the end-of-the-year report (\"Zeugnis\") are a prerequisite for moving up (\"aufsteigen\") to the next class. Pupils who do not meet the required standard re-sit their tests at the end of the summer holidays; those whose marks are still not satisfactory are required to re-sit the year (\"sitzenbleiben\").\n\nIt is not uncommon for a pupil to re-sit more than one year of school. After completing the first two years, pupils choose between one of two strands, known as \"Gymnasium\" (slightly more emphasis on arts) or \"Realgymnasium\" (slightly more emphasis on science). Whilst many schools offer both strands, some do not, and as a result, some children move schools for a second time at age 12. At age 14, pupils may choose to remain in one of these two strands, or to change to a vocational course, possibly with a further change of school.\n\nThe Austrian university system had been open to any student who passed the Matura examination until recently. A 2006 bill allowed the introduction of entrance exams for studies such as Medicine. In 2001, an obligatory tuition fee (\"Studienbeitrag\") of €363.36 per term was introduced for all public universities. There are some non-state exceptions to this, where students can still study for a subsidized education, for example within the campus system of the English Teacher Training College. Since 2008, for all EU students the studies have been free of charge, as long as a certain time-limit is not exceeded (the expected duration of the study plus usually two terms tolerance). When the time-limit is exceeded, the fee of around €363.36 per term is charged. Some further exceptions to the fee apply, e.g. for students with a year's salary of more than about €5000. In all cases, an obligatory fee of €17 is charged for the student union and insurance.\n\nAustria's past as a European power and its cultural environment generated a broad contribution to various forms of art, most notably among them music. Austria was the birthplace of many famous composers such as Joseph Haydn, Michael Haydn, Franz Liszt, Franz Schubert, Anton Bruckner, Johann Strauss, Sr. and Johann Strauss, Jr. as well as members of the Second Viennese School such as Arnold Schoenberg, Anton Webern and Alban Berg. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was born in Salzburg, then an independent Church Principality of the Holy Roman Empire, which later became part of Austria, and much of Mozart's career was spent in Vienna.\n\nVienna was for a long time an important centre of musical innovation. 18th- and 19th-century composers were drawn to the city due to the patronage of the Habsburgs, and made Vienna the European capital of classical music. During the Baroque period, Slavic and Hungarian folk forms influenced Austrian music.\n\nVienna's status began its rise as a cultural centre in the early 16th century, and was focused around instruments, including the lute. Ludwig van Beethoven spent the better part of his life in Vienna. Austria's current national anthem, attributed to Mozart, was chosen after World War II to replace the traditional Austrian anthem by Joseph Haydn.\n\nAustrian Herbert von Karajan was principal conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic for 35 years. He is generally regarded as one of the greatest conductors of the 20th century, and he was a dominant figure in European classical music from the 1960s until his death.\n\nInternational pop super star Johann Hölzel, also known by his stage name Falco was born in Vienna, Austria 19 February 1957.\n\nConchita Wurst is also a renowned singer from the Austrian stock.\n\nAmong Austrian Artists and architects one can find the painters Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller, Rudolf von Alt, Hans Makart, Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka, Egon Schiele, Carl Moll, and Friedensreich Hundertwasser, the photographers Inge Morath and Ernst Haas, and architects like Johann Bernhard Fischer von Erlach, Otto Wagner, Adolf Loos, and Hans Hollein (recipient of the 1985 Pritzker Architecture Prize). Contemporary artist Herbert Brandl.\n\nSascha Kolowrat was an Austrian pioneer of filmmaking. Billy Wilder, Fritz Lang, Josef von Sternberg, and Fred Zinnemann originally came from Austria before establishing themselves as internationally relevant movie makers. Willi Forst, Ernst Marischka, or Franz Antel enriched the popular cinema in German language speaking countries. Michael Haneke became internationally known for his disturbing cinematic studies, before receiving a Golden Globe for his critically acclaimed film \"The White Ribbon\" in 2010.\n\nThe first Austrian film director to receive an Academy Award was Stefan Ruzowitzky. A number of Austrian actors were able to pursue a career, the impact of which was sensed beyond national borders. Among them were Peter Lorre, Helmut Berger, Curd Jürgens, Senta Berger, Oskar Werner, and Klaus Maria Brandauer. Hedy Lamarr and Arnold Schwarzenegger became American as well as international movie stars. The latter also became the 38th Governor of California. Christoph Waltz rose to international fame with his performance in \"Inglourious Basterds\", earning the Best Actor Award at Cannes in 2009, and the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor in 2010 and finally two Oscars. Max Reinhardt was a master of spectacular and astute theatre productions. Otto Schenk not only excelled as a stage actor, but also as an opera director.\n\nAustria was the cradle of numerous scientists with international reputation. Among them are Ludwig Boltzmann, Ernst Mach, Victor Franz Hess and Christian Doppler, prominent scientists in the 19th century. In the 20th century, contributions by Lise Meitner, Erwin Schrödinger and Wolfgang Pauli to nuclear research and quantum mechanics were key to these areas' development during the 1920s and 1930s. A present-day quantum physicist is Anton Zeilinger, noted as the first scientist to demonstrate quantum teleportation.\n\nIn addition to physicists, Austria was the birthplace of two of the most noteworthy philosophers of the 20th century, Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper. In addition to them, biologists Gregor Mendel and Konrad Lorenz as well as mathematician Kurt Gödel and engineers such as Ferdinand Porsche and Siegfried Marcus were Austrians.\n\nA focus of Austrian science has always been medicine and psychology, starting in medieval times with Paracelsus. Eminent physicians like Theodore Billroth, Clemens von Pirquet, and Anton von Eiselsberg have built upon the achievements of the 19th-century Vienna School of Medicine. Austria was home to Sigmund Freud, founder of psychoanalysis, Alfred Adler, founder of Individual psychology, psychologists Paul Watzlawick and Hans Asperger, and psychiatrist Viktor Frankl.\n\nThe Austrian School of Economics, which is prominent as one of the main competitive directions for economic theory, is related to Austrian economists Carl Menger, Joseph Schumpeter, Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk, Ludwig von Mises, and Friedrich Hayek. Other noteworthy Austrian-born émigrés include the management thinker Peter Drucker, sociologist Paul Felix Lazarsfeld and scientist Sir Gustav Nossal.\n\nComplementing its status as a land of artists and scientists, Austria has always been a country of poets, writers, and novelists. It was the home of novelists Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig, Thomas Bernhard, and Robert Musil, of poets Georg Trakl, Franz Werfel, Franz Grillparzer, Rainer Maria Rilke, Adalbert Stifter, Karl Kraus and children's author Eva Ibbotson.\n\nFamous contemporary playwrights and novelists are Nobel prize winner Elfriede Jelinek, Peter Handke and Daniel Kehlmann.\n\nAustria's cuisine is derived from that of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Austrian cuisine is mainly the tradition of Royal-Cuisine (\"Hofküche\") delivered over centuries. It is famous for its well-balanced variations of beef and pork and countless variations of vegetables. There is also the \"Mehlspeisen\" Bakery, which created particular delicacies such as Sachertorte, \"Krapfen\" which are doughnuts usually filled with apricot jam or custard, and \"Strudel\" such as \"Apfelstrudel\" filled with apple, \"Topfenstrudel\" filled with a type of cheese curd called \"topfen\", and \"Millirahmstrudel\" (milk-cream strudel).\n\nIn addition to native regional traditions, the cuisine has been influenced by Hungarian, Bohemia Czech, Jewish, Italian, Balkan and French cuisine, from which both dishes and methods of food preparation have often been borrowed. The Austrian cuisine is therefore one of the most multicultural and transcultural in Europe.\n\nTypical Austrian dishes include Wiener Schnitzel, Schweinsbraten, Kaiserschmarren, Knödel, Sachertorte and Tafelspitz. There are also Kärntner Kasnudeln, which are pockets of dough filled with Topfen, potatoes, herbs and peppermint which are boiled and served with a butter sauce. Kasnudeln are traditionally served with a salad. Eierschwammerl dishes are also popular. The sugar block dispenser Pez was invented in Austria, as well as Mannerschnitten. Austria is also famous for its Mozartkugeln and its coffee tradition. With over 8 kg per year it has the sixth highest per capita coffee consumption worldwide.\n\nBeer is sold in 0.2 litre (a \"Pfiff\"), 0.3 litre (a \"Seidel\", \"kleines Bier\" or \"Glas Bier\") and 0.5 litre (a \"Krügerl\" or \"großes Bier\" or \"Halbe\") measures. At festivals one litre \"Maß\" and two litre \"Doppelmaß\" in the Bavarian style are also dispensed. The most popular types of beer are lager (known as \"Märzen\" in Austria), naturally cloudy \"Zwicklbier\" and wheat beer. At holidays like Christmas and Easter bock beer is also available.\n\nThe most important wine-producing areas are in Lower Austria, Burgenland, Styria and Vienna. The Grüner Veltliner grape provides some of Austria's most notable white wines and Zweigelt is the most widely planted red wine grape.\n\nIn Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Styria and Carinthia, \"Most\", a type of cider or perry is widely produced.\n\nSchnapps of typically up to 60% alcohol or fruit brandy is drunk, which in Austria is made from a variety of fruits, for example apricots and rowanberries. The produce of small private schnapps distilleries, of which there are around 20,000 in Austria, is known as \"Selbstgebrannter\" or \"Hausbrand\".\n\nLocal soft drinks such as Almdudler are very popular around the country as an alternative to alcoholic beverages. Another popular drink is the so-called \"Spezi\", a mix between Coca-Cola and the original formula of Orange Fanta or the more locally renowned Frucade. Red Bull, the highest-selling energy drink in the world, was invented in Austria.\n\nDue to the mountainous terrain, alpine skiing is a prominent sport in Austria and is extremely valuable in the promotion and economic growth of the country. Similar sports such as snowboarding or ski-jumping are also widely popular. Austrian athletes such as Annemarie Moser-Pröll, Franz Klammer, Hermann Maier, Toni Sailer, Benjamin Raich, Marlies Schild & Marcel Hirscher are widely regarded as some of the greatest alpine skiers of all time, Armin Kogler, Andreas Felder, Ernst Vettori, Andreas Goldberger, Andreas Widhölzl, Thomas Morgenstern & Gregor Schlierenzauer as some of the greatest ski jumpers of all time. Bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton are also popular events with a permanent track located in Igls, which hosted bobsleigh and luge competitions for the 1964 and 1976 Winter Olympics held in Innsbruck. The first Winter Youth Olympics in 2012 were held in Innsbruck as well.\n\nA popular team sport in Austria is football, which is governed by the Austrian Football Association. Austria was among the most successful football playing nations on the European continent placing 4th at the 1934 FIFA World Cup, 3rd at the 1954 FIFA World Cup and 7th at the 1978 FIFA World Cup. However, recently Austrian football has not been internationally successful. It also co-hosted the 2008 UEFA European Football Championship with Switzerland. The national Austrian football league is the Austrian Bundesliga, which includes teams such as record-champions SK Rapid Wien, FK Austria Wien, Red Bull Salzburg and Sturm Graz.\n\nBesides football, Austria also has professional national leagues for most major team sports, including the Austrian Hockey League for ice hockey, and the Österreichische Basketball Bundesliga for basketball. Horseback riding is also popular; the famed Spanish Riding School of Vienna is located in Vienna.\n\nNiki Lauda is a former Formula One driver who was three times F1 World Champion, winning in 1975, 1977 and 1984. He is currently the only driver to have been champion for both Ferrari and McLaren, the sport's two most successful constructors. Other known Austrian F1 drivers are for example Gerhard Berger and Jochen Rindt. Austria also hosts F1 races (Austrian Grand Prix); now held at Red Bull Ring, in the past also at Österreichring and Zeltweg Airfield.\n\nThomas Muster is a former tennis player and one of the greatest clay courters of all time. He won the 1995 French Open and in 1996 he was ranked number 1 in the ATP Ranking. Other known Austrian tennis players are for example Horst Skoff, Jürgen Melzer and Dominic Thiem.\n\nSport played a significant role in developing national consciousness and boosting national self-confidence in the early years of the Second Republic after World War II, through events such as the Tour of Austria cycle race and through sporting successes such as the national football team's run to third at the 1954 World Cup and the performances of Toni Sailer and the rest of the \"Kitzbühel Miracle Team\" in the 1950s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30888318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30888318", "title": "Babin Republic", "text": "Babin Republic\n\nThe Babin Republic (Polish: \"Rzeczpospolita Babińska\"), was a satirical, literary and carnival society founded in 1568 in Babin, Lublin county, Poland by Stanisław Pszonka and . Its Latin motto was: \"Omnis Homo Mendax\" (\"Every man is a liar\").\n\nThe Babin Republic was set up as a parody of a republican state. To this end, the Republic bestowed sarcastic \"offices\" and \"titles\" to those who embarrassed themselves in public due to some fault or folly, and to those who told ridiculously untrue stories. People with poor speaking skills were declared \"Speakers of the Republic\", gossipmongers were made members of the \"Secret Council\", litigious people were declared \"Justices of the Peace\", people who exaggerated their hunting exploits were made \"Masters of the Hunt\", etc. All nominations were dutifully entered into the \"Memorial Register of Babin Officials\". There was a total of 411 accounts in the register. Some of the fanciful stories show influences of Rabelais and Boccaccio. The society was an institution in the cultural life in post-Renaissance Poland and survived until 1677. The Babin Republic spawned a few humorous expressions in Polish of the time, such as \"rycerz z Babina\" (\"a Babin knight\"), meaning \"coward\", or \"wiesci z Babina\" (\"news from Babin\"), meaning \"false rumors\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16507671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16507671", "title": "Battle of Sauðafell", "text": "Battle of Sauðafell\n\nThe Battle of Sauðafell (\"Orrustan á Sauðafelli\") occurred in 1550, when the forces of Catholic Bishop Jón Arason clashed with the forces of Daði Guðmundsson of Snóksdalur.\n\nSauðafell was an important part of Daði's fief in West of Iceland, close to his Estate in Snóksdalur and vital to the Bishops campaign against Lutheran influence in the country as it blocked his lines of communication in the West to the South of Iceland.\n\nJón Arason brought with him a minimal force of around 100 men and took Sauðafell without opposition initially. Daði responded by secretly raising an elite force of similar size from his followers, half of which was heavily armored \"sveinar\" and half unarmored but equipped with guns. Mounted and covered in gray cloaks they marched under the cover of dark and foggy weather unnoticed by the Bishop's forces, surprising them early in the morning. The battle was nonetheless close fought and Daði was almost shot down by gunfire when he led his troops into the fray.\n\nAfter being cornered in the Church the Bishop accepted Daði's terms and surrendered.\n\n"}
{"id": "4463780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4463780", "title": "Botswana Telecommunication Employees' Union", "text": "Botswana Telecommunication Employees' Union\n\nThe Botswana Telecommunication Employees' Union (BOTEU) is a trade union affiliate of the Botswana Federation of Trade Unions in Botswana.\n\n"}
{"id": "37357090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37357090", "title": "Bouyya", "text": "Bouyya\n\nBouyya ()is a village in northern Djibouti. \n\nIt is located in the Tadjoura Region, near the Ethiopian border. \n"}
{"id": "25388761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25388761", "title": "Calcari Grigi di Noriglio Formation", "text": "Calcari Grigi di Noriglio Formation\n\nThe Calcari Grigi di Noriglio Formation is a geological formation in Italy, dating to roughly between 200 to 190 million years ago and covering the Hettangian to Sinemurian stages of the Jurassic Period in the Mesozoic Era.Fossil prosauropod tracks have been reported from the formation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4588688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4588688", "title": "Catholic Church in San Marino", "text": "Catholic Church in San Marino\n\nThe Catholic Church in San Marino is part of the worldwide Catholic Church, under the leadership of the Pope in Rome.\n\nSan Marino is a predominantly Catholic state — over 97% of the population profess the Catholic faith, but Catholicism is not an established religion. There is no episcopal see in San Marino. Historically, the various parishes in San Marino were divided between two Italian dioceses, mostly in the Diocese of Montefeltro, and partly in the Diocese of Rimini. In 1977, the border between Montefeltro and Rimini was readjusted so that all of San Marino fell within the diocese of Montefeltro. The bishop of Montefeltro-San Marino resides in Pennabilli, in Italy.\n\nThere are several parishes in the Republic, including:\n\nMany Catholic organizations exist, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "50850616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50850616", "title": "Christina Hulbe", "text": "Christina Hulbe\n\nChristina Hulbe, an Antarctic researcher, serves as Professor \nand Dean of Surveying at the University of Otago in New Zealand. Hulbe was previously Chair of the Geology Department at Portland State University in Portland, Oregon. She leads the NZARI project to drill through the Ross Ice Shelf and is the namesake of the Hulbe glacier.\n\nHulbe grew up in Sacramento, California, spending a lot of time in the Sierra Nevada and the Warner Mountains to the north. Her father was a geologist and professor (at Sacramento City College and Sacramento State University). She completed a degree in geological engineering from the Montana College of Mineral Science and Technology. She completed her MSc in 1994 at Ohio State University followed in 1998 by a Geophysics PhD from the University of Chicago.\n\nIn 1998 she held a NRC Research Associateship, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. From there she moved to Portland State University in Portland, Oregon.\n\nHer work in the late 1990s constituted the first melding together of the types of ice-sheet thermomechanical models (simulating ice-stream dynamics embedded within the flow of the inland ice sheet that behaves according to a different set of dynamics). She contributed to the understanding of ice-shelf instability, with some of the first papers that identified surface meltwater as an agent in the break-up of Larsen B ice shelf (in 2002).\n\nShe has developed methods used to identify ice-shelf and ice-stream flow variability as observed by the geometry of flow streaks and other indicators, and this is one of the few ways in which the history of glacial flow over the “medium past” (the past between the reach of direct observation and the more distant reach of ice coring).\n\nHulbe’s work in the understanding of Heinrich Events of the North Atlantic was informed by her experience with Antarctic-based ice-shelf and ice-stream instability (and sedimentology), and this has led to a mechanism that is currently popular in understanding Heinrich Events (the idea of deeper waters warming and destabilizing an ice shelf in the Labrador Sea is her idea). Most recently, Hulbe is lead investigator in a New Zealand project seeking to drill through the Ross Ice Shelf which would be the first mid-shelf penetration since J9 in the late 1970s.\n\nHulbe has been heavily involved with the International Glaciological Society (IGS) and over-saw its transition from a mode of service to the community to an open access publishing provider.\n\nHulbe was Vice President (2009 – 2012) of the International Glaciological Society as well as a Fulbright Senior Scholar (New Zealand, 2009). She was awarded the Portland State University College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, John Elliot Allen Outstanding Teaching Award in 2004 and 2007. She also chairs the University of Otago Equity Advisory Committee and has written a history of women in glaciology and has campaigned extensively against armed conflict.\n\nThe Hulbe Glacier on the Siple Coast is named after her.\n\n"}
{"id": "30266079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30266079", "title": "Church of the Virgin Mary (Prague Castle)", "text": "Church of the Virgin Mary (Prague Castle)\n\nThe Church of the Virgin Mary was the first known church built in the current area of the Prague Castle. The structure was built by Prince Borivoj I after 884, making it not only the oldest church in Prague Castle but also the second oldest in Bohemia. The church was rebuilt after a fire in the 11th century, but was eventually destroyed again in the 13th century and not rebuilt; it is known today due to excavations directly under extant administrative buildings. The surviving foundations indicate a rectangular nave and a semicircular apse; archaeological surveys uncovered tombs for members of the royal Přemyslid dynasty which was prominent in Bohemia during the early Christian era.\n\n"}
{"id": "39715736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39715736", "title": "D-Smart", "text": "D-Smart\n\nD-Smart is a Turkish satellite television provider launched in 2007. It launched high-definition television broadcasts in 2008. By late 2012, D-Smart had around 1.6m subscribers, of which around half were free-to-air customers; revenues were around EUR350m.\n\n"}
{"id": "37672476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37672476", "title": "Dacian fortress of Divici", "text": "Dacian fortress of Divici\n\nIt was a Dacian fortified town.\n"}
{"id": "10843968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10843968", "title": "Dames blanches", "text": "Dames blanches\n\nIn French mythology or folklore, Dames Blanches (meaning literally white ladies) were female spirits or supernatural beings, comparable to the White Women of both Dutch and Germanic mythology. The Dames Blanches were reported in the region of Lorraine (Lotharingen) and Normandy. They appear (as \"Damas blancas\", in Occitan), in the Pyrenees mountains, where they were supposed to appear near caves and caverns.\n\nThomas Keightley (1870) describes the Dames Blanches as a type of Fée known in Normandy \"who are of a less benevolent character.\" They lurk in narrow places such as ravines, fords, and on bridges, and try to attract passerby attention. They may require one to join in her dance or assist her in order to pass. If assisted she \"makes him many courtesies, and then vanishes.\" One such Dame was known as \"La Dame d'Apringy\" who appeared in a ravine at the Rue Quentin at Bayeux in Normandy, where one must dance with her a few rounds to pass. Those who refused were thrown into the thistles and briar, while those who danced were not harmed. Another Dame was known on a narrow bridge in the district of Falaise, named the Pont d'Angot. She only allowed people to pass if they went on their knees to her. Anyone who refused was tormented by the lutins, cats, owls, and other creatures who helped her.\n\nJ. A. MacCulloch believes \"Dames Blanches\" are one of the recharacterizations of pre-Christian female goddesses, and suggested their name Dame may have derived from the ancient guardian goddesses known as the Matres, by looking at old inscriptions to guardian goddesses, specifically inscriptions to \"the \"Dominæ\", who watched over the home, perhaps became the \"Dames\" of mediæval folk-lore.\"\n\nThe Dames Blanches have close counterparts in both name and characterization in neighboring northern countries: In Germany the Weisse Frauen and in the Dutch Low Countries the Witte Wieven.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20186929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20186929", "title": "Denis Detcheverry", "text": "Denis Detcheverry\n\nDenis Detcheverry (born 29 April 1953) was a member of the Senate of France from 2004 to 2011, representing the islands of Saint Pierre and Miquelon. He is a member of the Union for a Popular Movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "20939759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20939759", "title": "Ganutell", "text": "Ganutell\n\nGanutell is a Maltese art form of making artificial flowers from wire, thread, and beads.\n\nIn his introduction to the book \"Ganutell\" by Maria Kerr, the Maltese scholar and historian Guido Lanfranco states that in Maltese eighteenth and nineteenth century history, one finds numerous references to ganutell which can be considered to be the Maltese art of making artistic flowers. The word \"ganutell\" is derived from the Italian \"cannotiglio\" and in fact this craft, which can also be considered to be an art, was \"imported\" to Malta during the eighteenth century from mainland Europe. The way the craft eventually evolved has made it distinctively Maltese.\n\nThis craft had its ups and downs and by the mid-twentieth century a considerable section of the Maltese population hardly knew of the existence of ganutell and only a few had mastered the various techniques of ganutell. The techniques had been passed on from generation to generation by word of mouth with little or no documentation until it seemed that this craft was destined to be forgotten.\n\nTowards the end of the twentieth century, the Education Division offered evening courses in ganutell and the craft started on its way to recovery. Today it is known not only in Malta but interest has been shown from a number of European countries, North and South America and also in Japan. \n\n"}
{"id": "4204370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4204370", "title": "Geprüfte Sicherheit", "text": "Geprüfte Sicherheit\n\nThe Geprüfte Sicherheit (\"Tested Safety\") or GS mark is a voluntary certification mark for technical equipment. It indicates that the equipment meets German and, if available, European safety requirements for such devices. The main difference between GS and CE mark is that the compliance with the European safety requirements has been tested and certified by a state-approved independent body. CE marking, in contrast, is issued for the signing of a declaration that the product is in compliance with European legislation. The GS mark is based on the German Product Safety Act (\"Produktsicherheitsgesetz\", or \"ProdSG\").\n\nTesting for the mark is available from many different laboratories, such as, DGUV Test the TÜV, Nemko and IMQ.\n\nAlthough the GS mark was designed with the German market in mind, it appears on a large proportion of electronic products and machinery sold elsewhere in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49413994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49413994", "title": "Grotta-Pelos culture", "text": "Grotta-Pelos culture\n\nThe Grotta-Pelos culture () refers to a \"cultural\" dating system used for part of the early Bronze Age in Greece. Specifically, it is the period that marks the beginning of the so-called Cycladic culture and spans the Neolithic period in the late 4th millennium BC (ca. 3300 BC), continuing in the Bronze Age to about 2700 BC.\nThe term was coined by Colin Renfrew, who named it after the sites of Grotta and Pelos on the Cycladic islands of Naxos and Milos, respectively. Other archaeologists prefer a \"chronological\" dating system and refer to this period as the Early Cycladic I (ECI).\n\n"}
{"id": "49814650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49814650", "title": "Guillaume Le Blond", "text": "Guillaume Le Blond\n\nGuillaume Le Blond (1704 – May 24, 1781) was a French mathematician. He was born in Paris.\nHe was a professor of mathematics at the grand stable of the King (1736) and then the Enfants de France (1756). Leblond kept this job until 1778, when he became secretary of the cabinet of Madame Victoire.\n\nLe Blond wrote the following works, some of which have been translated into German.\n\n\nHe also produced editions of \"Mémoires d’artillerie\" by Pierre Surirey de Saint-Remy and the \"Géométrie\" by Joseph Sauveur and collaborated on the \"Encyclopédie\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30158405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30158405", "title": "Hirvepark meeting", "text": "Hirvepark meeting\n\nThe Hirvepark meeting was held in Estonia on 23 August 1987, the anniversary of the Nazi-Soviet Pact. It was attended by 2,000 to 5,000 people, and was one of the first organized public demonstrations against the Estonian Communist Party. It sparked a wave of anti-Soviet activity and mass protests in support of independence.\n"}
{"id": "56698849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56698849", "title": "Imperial election, March 1198", "text": "Imperial election, March 1198\n\nThe imperial election of March 8, 1198 was an imperial election held to select the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire. It took place in Mühlhausen.\n\nAs a result of the election, Philip of Swabia was named Holy Roman Emperor.\n"}
{"id": "40493076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40493076", "title": "Intelsat II", "text": "Intelsat II\n\nIntelsat II was a series of four communications satellites operated by Intelsat which were launched in 1966 and 1967. Built by the Hughes Aircraft Company, the Intelsat II series was a follow-up to the Intelsat I series, of which only one satellite was launched.\n\nIntelsat II spacecraft were based on the HS-303A satellite bus, which was cylindrical in shape and spin-stabilised. The satellites had a diameter of , and were long. They were equipped with an SVM-1 apogee motor to circularise their orbits following launch atop Delta E1 carrier rockets. All four satellites were launched from Launch Complex 17B at the Cape Kennedy Air Station. Each satellite had a mass at launch of , which decreased to around once the satellite had fired its apogee motor and manoeuvred into its orbital position.\n\nIntelsat II spacecraft were designed to be operated in geostationary orbit; however the first satellite's apogee motor malfunctioned leaving it in a lower than planned orbit. It was able to perform a limited communications mission, however the other three spacecraft successfully achieved geostationary orbit. Each satellite carried two transponders, powered by solar cells mounted on the body of the spacecraft, which generated 85 watts of power.\n\nIntelsat II F-1 provided a transpacific communications link for 240 telephone channels or two television channels. Provision was made for 180 hours of telecasting per year (an average of 30 minutes per day) via the satellite.\n\nA 50-minute programme was relayed between Tokyo and Washington, D.C. via Intelsat II F-1 on 27 January 1967. It was the first newscast and the first colour programme to be telecast across the Pacific. Japan's Fuji Television used the satellite to present direct telecasts of the world featherweight boxing title match between Vicente Saldivar and Mitsunori Seki from Mexico City on 29 January. It was the first live transmission of a sport event across the Pacific. \"Stars and Stripes\" reported that the pictures were clear.\n"}
{"id": "12766710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12766710", "title": "It's Hard to Be Nice", "text": "It's Hard to Be Nice\n\nIt's Hard to be Nice (Original title in Bosnian: Teško je biti fin) is a 2007 Bosnian film by Srđan Vuletić. The movie is about a man who lives in a challenging, post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina where many are forced to create their own destinies. Fudo, a taxi driver who lives in Sarajevo with his wife and a newborn baby, is pressured by his wife to turn his life around from being associated with local and regional mafia. He firmly adheres and acts to change to an honest family man bound by goodness and peace. However, the challenging events that follow bring his family and his life to a severe test.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4935775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4935775", "title": "Još Hrvatska ni propala", "text": "Još Hrvatska ni propala\n\nJoš Hrvatska ni propala () is a famous Croatian patriotic reveille which was penned by Ljudevit Gaj and set to music by the composer Ferdo Livadić in 1833. The song is considered the anthem of the Illyrian Movement, which constituted a great part of the Croatian national revival.\nThe song is strikingly similar to Polish Mazurek Dąbrowskiego. \n\nGaj's story of how the song came about was related in Franjo Kuhač's work \"Illyrian Songwriters\" (\"Ilirski glazbenici\"). Travelling to Samobor to visit Livadić, Gaj thought to himself, \"Croatia has not yet fallen so long as we [revivalists] are alive\". At the same time he heard the sound of villagers singing in church. When he arrived at Livadić's house, he already had the words and melody ready. That night they penned several other verses, of which three became the best known and were treated as the unofficial anthem of the Illyrian Movement. \n\nThe song was first performed publicly on February 4, 1835 in a Zagreb theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "5170688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5170688", "title": "Judiciary of Morocco", "text": "Judiciary of Morocco\n\nThe Judiciary of Morocco is an independent branch of the , subject only to the Moroccan Constitution.\n\nThe Moroccan court structure consists of:\n\n\nIn June 2006, Morocco and Argentina signed a bilateral agreement on judicial cooperation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9990263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9990263", "title": "Košava (wind)", "text": "Košava (wind)\n\nKošava (, ) is a cold, very squally southeastern wind found in Serbia and some nearby countries. It starts in the Carpathian Mountains and follows the Danube northwest through the Iron Gate region where it gains a jet effect, then continues to Belgrade. It can spread as far north as Hungary and as far south as Niš.\n\nIn the winter, it can cause temperatures to drop to around . In the summer, it is cool and dusty. It varies diurnally, and is strongest between 5:00 and 10:00 in the morning. Košava is usually caused by a low pressure zone over the Adriatic Sea and a corresponding high pressure zone in southern Russia.\n\nThe name is also used traditionally in northwestern Bulgaria to mean a southeastern or eastern wind. There exists the saying: \"When košava blows, the Nišava freezes\".\n\nThe speed and occurrence of the Košava wind declined from 1949 to 2010. The same study showed that Košava usually lasts for two or three days, one-day events being very rare.\n\nKoshava wind blows when there is a high air pressure (an anticyclone) over eastern Europe and/or west Asia and a low pressure (a cyclone) over the middle and/or western Mediterranean region. The strong anticyclone, however, is the main trigger for the Koshava wind. Koshava is also a gap flow windstorm. Koshava's occurrence can be successfully forecast using the across-mountain mean sea level pressure and potential temperature differences.\n\n"}
{"id": "36423953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36423953", "title": "Kunal, Haryana", "text": "Kunal, Haryana\n\nKunal is a pre-Harappan settlement located in Fatehabad district, Haryana, India. This Indus Valley Civilisation site was a village, in comparison to towns like Kalibangan and cities like Rakhigarhi of IVC. This site is located on Sarasvati plain.\n\nThis small settlement (1 hectare) yielded Hakra ware at entry level. Houses were built on an artificially elevated place.\n\nDiscovery of a button seal during 1998-99 excavations by Archaeological Survey of India exhibit this culture's ancestry to the Rehman Dheri examples. This seal contained a picture of two deer on one side and a geometrical pattern on other side, which is comparable to a specimen from Rehman-Dheri (Baluchistan), datable to .\n\nThis site is recognised as earliest Pre-Harappan site.\n\nDesigns on pottery included pipal leaves (\"ficus religiosa\") and humped bull which were important motifs found on Mature Harappan seals. Bone tools, micro blades made of chalcedony,copper fish hooks and arrow heads were also found here. Six steatite seals and one shell seal with geometric patterns were found. These six seals were of square shape, made of grey stone and resembled typical Mature Harappan seals.\nAlso found at this site are copper rods, rings, bangle pieces, terracotta objects like bangles, balls, animal figurines,net-sinker, toy cart frames,disk and toys, stone balls, shell bangles etc.\n\nLarge Hoards of jewellery were found at this location, including two silver pieces called tiaras, gold ornaments, beads of semi precious stones etc. Number of hoards found at this site included silver bangle, copper tools etc.\n\nExcavations on south-west side of mound revealed copper furnaces with smelting material and copper ingots and slags were also found at this site.\n\nRice (probably wild) is found from Kunal as well as from Balu, both in Haryana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18381829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18381829", "title": "List of African records in swimming", "text": "List of African records in swimming\n\nThe African records in swimming are the fastest times ever by a swimmer representing an African country. These records are ratified by CANA, the African Swimming Confederation (its acronym derives from its name in French: \"Confédération Africaine Natation\").\n\nAll records were set in finals unless noted otherwise.\n\n"}
{"id": "23914300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23914300", "title": "List of ski areas and resorts in North America", "text": "List of ski areas and resorts in North America\n\nThis is a list of ski areas and resorts in North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "8691699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8691699", "title": "MLB Extra Innings", "text": "MLB Extra Innings\n\nMLB Extra Innings is an Out-of-Market Sports Package distributed in North America by satellite provider DirecTV since 2010 and by most cable providers since 2001. The package allows its subscribers to see up to 80 out-of-market Major League Baseball games a week using local over the air stations and regional sports networks.\n\nAs of the 2008 season, the feeds from both teams' broadcasts are available for each game on DirecTV, even if a team is showing the game locally on a broadcast station. Even though the package relies on satellite uplink paths, DirecTV also carries feeds from local broadcast and even cable-only networks as well, such as NBC Sports Philadelphia for the Philadelphia Phillies. Feeds that are not included on the DirecTV version of Extra Innings include KCAL (Dodgers), KCOP-TV (Angels), KNTV (Giants), and WCIU (Cubs and White Sox) unless that is your local area.\n\nThe iN DEMAND version of Extra Innings added the \"dual feed\" system for select broadcasts after the 2008 MLB All-Star Game. Along with this, the iN DEMAND version of MLB Extra Innings has been able to add broadcast television stations, WKYC (Indians), WJZ-TV (Orioles), WUSA (Nationals), WPIX (Mets, Yankees), WPHL-TV (Phillies), and in addition, one Canadian RSN, the Toronto Blue Jays' Rogers Sports Net feed. Previously, only one feed was available, usually the home team's. For the 2017 season, Comcast X1 customers could get all MLB EI games in HDTV, using the Beta IN DEMAND platform. DirecTV has offered all MLB EI (Most with dual HD feeds) games in HDTV for years.\n\nFree previews of MLB Extra Innings are shown during the first week of the season, and the week after the All Star Game.\n\nMLB Extra Innings is available with these cable and satellite providers:\n\nDish Network offered the package from 2004–2006, but as of January 2013, Dish was still not offering MLB Extra Innings. Despite the status, the satellite provider began carrying the MLB Network on September 1, 2011. On March 29, 2015, Dish announced it will again offer MLB Extra Innings.\n\nOn March 6, 2007, DirecTV signed a new seven-year carriage contract with the MLB. At first, it was to be an exclusive deal worth $700 million. However, as a result of viewer complaints and antitrust concerns –voiced by, among others, Massachusetts Senator John Kerry– MLB agreed to offer the package for renewal by cable systems and Dish Network. By March 9, negotiations had begun to try to settle the dispute, with a deadline of April 1, the first day of the MLB regular season. MLB demanded that the cable systems bundle the renewal of the Extra Innings package with the MLB Network, a 24-hour network in the vein of NFL Network, NBA TV, and NHL Network that MLB launched on January 1, 2009. Furthermore, these systems were asked to place the channel on an expanded digital tier. At least one major system, Time Warner Cable, balked at the terms.\n\nThe offer from the cable consortium to MLB would have matched the financing portion, but cable was only willing to put the MLB Network on a premium tier. Cable systems did guarantee to reach at least as many viewers of MLB Network as DirecTV will reach. MLB was not satisfied with the offer, and publicly claimed that the cable companies failed to meet more of the criteria for the deal than they had actually met. However, while MLB wanted the cable systems to match the same offer as DirecTV, MLB would be providing more generous benefits to DirecTV for the very same offer: DirecTV would be receiving a stake in MLB Network, thereby barring cable systems from receiving the telecasts. Hence, MLB was accused of claiming that cable would not meet the same terms as DirecTV, while not offering the same deal to the cable consortium.\n\nAs of the start of the season on April 2, only DirecTV had agreed to those terms and was able to retain Extra Innings. It would not be available on any cable system until after the deadline was extended and agreements were reached.\n\nOn April 4, MLB and iN DEMAND finally reached an agreement similar to the one that MLB reached with DirecTV. Cable companies that carry iN DEMAND resumed carrying MLB Extra Innings and also agreed to add the MLB Network upon its launch. iN DEMAND only had the authority to negotiate directly for and agree to add the MLB Network on their owners' cable systems which are made up by Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Cox Communications and Advance/Newhouse (Bright House Networks); in turn, iN DEMAND got an equity stake in the MLB Network about the same as the one DirecTV received. Cablevision which had been asking for their own equity stake as terms for them to agree to add the MLB Network came to terms with iN DEMAND and Major League Baseball on May 4, 2007 which was iN DEMAND and MLB's deadline for cable companies and Dish Network to reach a deal. Dish never came to an agreement and did not carry the package until a new deal was reached with MLB on March 31, 2015. Cablevision agreed to carry the MLB Network without getting the equity stake in it. Charter Communications also reached an agreement with MLB.\n\niN DEMAND places MLB Extra Innings on the same channels as its NHL Center Ice service. Some providers, like Comcast and Suddenlink Communications, may not offer all 14 MLB game channels. Because of hockey games shown on the same channels (particularly in April), some nights on Comcast and Suddenlink see no more than 2 or 3 games being shown. Some Comcast cable systems do carry all 14 game channels, while some systems have limited number of channels. DirecTV customers do not have this problem, as their 15 channels (mostly RSN remaps) are dedicated solely to baseball.\n\nIn 2008, MLB Extra Innings on DirecTV launched a \"Superfan\" premium package similar to that available from NFL Sunday Ticket. This included a \"Game Mix\" with eight games on the same channel, and a \"Strike Zone Channel\" with live cut-ins to the night's games. It was commercial free and also available in HD.\n\nDirecTV subscribers with the Superfan package also received access to up to 40 games in HD each week. In 2007, at least 10 games each week were in HD. HD equipment is required. Superfan cost an additional $50 on top of the MLB Extra Innings package subscription cost as well as requires one to subscribe to the $9.99 HD monthly access fee.\n\nBeginning with the 2009 MLB season, \"Superfan\" no longer was offered as an option with MLB Extra Innings on DirecTV. Instead, the up to 40 HD games per week were part of the base package, provided to subscribers who already possess HD-ready equipment, and who paid the aforementioned HD monthly access fee.\n\nGame broadcasts of a major league team in its home market are blacked out in that area if the same game is on the Extra Innings schedule. In most cases, these games can be seen locally on a broadcast or cable/satellite network. (If both feeds are available, as noted above, they are both blacked out.)\n\nGames broadcast exclusively on ESPN are not available on Extra Innings. Beginning in the 2014 season, Fox broadcasts not shown on a local affiliate are available on Extra Innings.\n\nChicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox games formerly broadcast nationally via WGN America but still shown on WGN-TV in the Chicago area are available through the DirecTV version of Extra Innings as of the 2015 season. This also is the case for Cubs games televised by WLS-TV.\n\nESPN has exclusive broadcast rights for Sunday evening games. Any game starting after 5:10 p.m. Eastern on Sundays will not be broadcast on MLB Extra Innings. ESPN also televises a number of other games throughout the week. These, however, are not blacked out.\n\nIn North Carolina, Time Warner persistently refuses to carry the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network (MASN), which means all Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles games - home and away - are blacked out because MLB includes the state in those teams' broadcast territory.\n\nNationally-broadcast Toronto Blue Jays games and Sunday Night Baseball are not made available on Extra Innings and are available on Sportsnet and TSN2 respectively. All remaining televised games, including Major League Baseball on Fox, ESPN Major League Baseball and Major League Baseball on TBS are shown without exclusivity. Chicago Cubs and White Sox games broadcast on WGN-TV and New York Mets games on WPIX-TV are not blacked out. Out-of-market and shared territory games that air on Sportsnet's regional feeds are not blacked out, but may be subject to improper use of the simultaneous substitution rules.\n\nMany cable and satellite companies offer \"early bird\" package prices if ordered by the first week of the season or for automatic renewal. The following prices were for the regular listed price per season for the cable packages.\nDIRECTV has historically charged less for their SD only package than cable ($219 to renew and $179 for early bird in 2008) and instead offered HD and 'Superfan' for an additional charge.\n\nDirecTV's first published prices (aka early bird) through the years: 2008:$179, 2009:$189, 2010:$192, 2011:$204 2012:$210\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54320437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54320437", "title": "Malino I Declaration", "text": "Malino I Declaration\n\nMalino I Declaration or Malino Declaration for Poso, is a peace treaty initiated by the government of Indonesia on December 20, 2001 in Malino, Gowa Regency, South Sulawesi. This agreement brought together Christians and Muslims who fought in Poso in communal conflict from 1998 to 2001, also known as Poso riots. The meeting was chaired by the Coordinating Minister for People's Welfare at the time, Jusuf Kalla.\n\nBy agreeing on the clauses of Malino Declaration, two commissions were established: the Commission on Security and Law Enforcement, and the Socio-Economic Commission. The Security Commission has two main responsibilities: firstly, within the field of security, focus on disarming and repatriation of the refugees; secondly, within the field of law enforcement.\n\nThe Socio-Economic Commission was tasked with ten programs: reconciliation, social rehabilitation,\nrepatriation of the refugees, life insurance, physical rehabilitation, normalization of citizen economic activities, social support, development of parenting program, regular evaluation and monitoring, and program developments related to all of these. This program is administered by the Ministry of Social Affairs (Poso Social Service), with the exception of the reconciliation funds being controlled by the Poso Regional Government and the Malino Working Group 1.\n\nThe amount allocated by the central government to restore the condition of Poso Regency reached up to 54 million rupiah. The central government has also implemented several programs for victims and refugees of the conflict. In addition, the Poso reconciliation program was also planned as the next step of the Malino Declaration.\n"}
{"id": "32852645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32852645", "title": "Museum of Libya", "text": "Museum of Libya\n\nThe Museum of Libya is a museum located in Tripoli, Libya.\n"}
{"id": "27900724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27900724", "title": "My Seven Sons", "text": "My Seven Sons\n\nMy Seven Sons () is a 1970 Azerbaijani drama film. The film plot is written by Yusif Samedoglu based on his father poet Samed Vurgun's \"The Komsomol Poem\" which is about the events of 1920's and the Soviet overtaking of Azerbaijan.\n\nThe title \"Yeddi Oğul İstərəm\" derives from Azerbaijani folklore clause \"Yeddi Oğul İstərəm, Bircə Dənə Qız Gəlin\" (meaning \"I'd like seven sons and just one daughter\"), usually said during the weddings, when the groom comes to the bride's house to pick her up. The movie was shot for the 50th anniversary of establishment of Soviet power in Azerbaijan.\n\nThis lyrical psychological film is about commitment to the Bolshevik revolution and its victory. The story is about seven youth who sacrifice everything for the good of people. They travel through the villages during the takeover of Azerbaijan by Bolsheviks in order to establish and strengthen the Soviet power. Events develop in Peykanli village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12117341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12117341", "title": "Mărculești Air Force Base", "text": "Mărculești Air Force Base\n\nMărculești Air Force Base is an air force base of the military of Moldova, located in Florești district, in the north of Moldova.\n\n"}
{"id": "31124906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31124906", "title": "National Highway 3 (Djibouti)", "text": "National Highway 3 (Djibouti)\n\nNational Highway 3 is a short national highway of Djibouti. The highway begins at , at a junction with National Highway 1 in Djibouti City, near College De Fukuzawa. It passes along the coast to the north of Djibouti City, past Port de Doraleh and terminates at a small beach resort at .\n"}
{"id": "33403367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33403367", "title": "Ndaka language", "text": "Ndaka language\n\nThe Ndaka language (or Indaaka, Ndaaka) is spoken by the Ndaka people in the Ituri Province, Mambasa Territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is lexically similar to the Mbo, Budu, Vanuma and Nyali languages.\n"}
{"id": "24741663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24741663", "title": "Ondřej Havelka and his Melody Makers", "text": "Ondřej Havelka and his Melody Makers\n\nOndřej Havelka and his Melody Makers () or simply The Melody Makers, is a Czech retro-band, playing American \"jazz standards\" and Central European jazz and swing music of the 1920s and 1930s. Carefully studied renditions of the original recordings are interspersed with solos improvised in a style authentic to the period. They are one of very few European big band formations in continual existence over more than a decade, and have been a considerable presence on the swing scene of post-Communist Central Europe.\n\nThe Original Prague Syncopated Orchestra split in 1995, actor and singer Ondřej Havelka with his colleague Karel Majer leaving to form their own ensemble, with Havelka as artistic director and lead vocalist, and Majer initially as bandleader but leaving after a year. This group eventually adopted the name \"Melody Makers\".\n\nIn recent years the group has performed a number of songs best known from Ella Fitzgerald's recordings, with Gypsy singer Věra Gondolánová as guest vocalist.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48505252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48505252", "title": "One Globe Conference", "text": "One Globe Conference\n\nOne Globe Forum is an annual thought leadership forum, which focuses on exploring the intersection of technology, education, science, innovation, entrepreneurship, urbanization, smart cities, skills development, security, health, and regional collaboration, and their role in enabling economic growth to build a 21st-century knowledge economy.\n\nSince its inception in 2012, One Globe has brought over 250 global thought leaders from business, government, civil society, media and multilateral institutions, representing over 25 countries each year to debate, discuss, and share global and local perspectives on important issues influencing India and South Asia’s development.\n\nThe annual One Globe Forum is produced and programmed by the events arm of Salwan Media Ventures. The forum was conceptualized by Harjiv Singh, Founder & CEO, Salwan Media Ventures.\n\nPrevious speakers have included Piyush Goyal, Minister of State for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship and Parliamentary Affairs, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, and now the Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports, Amitabh Kant Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Onno Ruhl India Country Director, World Bank, Babul Supriyo, Minister of State for Urban Development, Kapil Sibal Union Minister for HRD & Communications and Information Technology, Pallam Raju Minister of Human Resource Development, Shashi Tharoor Minister of State for Human Resource Development, PP Choudhary, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Law and Justice; and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Rao Inderjit Singh, Union Minister of State, Ministry for Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, Sam Pitroda Advisor to the Prime Minister, Public Information Infrastructure & Innovations, Lord Loomba Founder Chairman- The Loomba Foundation, Jeffrey Sachs President, NYU - Polytechnic, Neeraj Bhargava, Founder Zodius Capital Advisory, Ashok Trivedi, Co-Chairman IGATE Corporation, Frederick M. Lawrence, President Brandeis University, Lakshmi Pratury, General JJ Singh, Governor of Arunachal Pradesh, Meenakshi Lekhi Member of Parliament, BJP National Spokesperson, Advocate and Social Activist, Shereen Bhan Managing Editor CNBC-TV18, Sheila Dikshit Former Chief Minister, Delhi and Former Governor, Kerala, Vikas Bajaj, Correspondent New York Times, Heather Timmons, Reporter New York Times, Nisid Hajari, Editor Bloomberg View (Asia), Dr. Arun Sundararajan, Professor NYU Stern School of Business, Shantanu Prakash, Chairman and Managing Director, Dr. Mukesh Aghi, Chairman & CEO Steria India, Arun Kapur, Director Vasant Valley School, New Delhi, Dr. Hitendra Wadhwa Professor of Professional Practice Columbia Business School, Francisco Marmolejo, Lead, Global Solutions Group on Tertiary Education; Lead Education Specialist for India, World Bank, Dr. A. Didar Singh, Advisor Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs, Sandeep Aneja, Founder and Managing Director Kaizen Private Equity, Gopal Jain, Founding and Managing Partner Gaja Capital Partners, Loftus Harris, Special Trade Representative to the Middle East and India The Queensland Government, M. Damodaran Former Chairman SEBI and IAS (Retd.), Montek Singh Ahluwalia Former Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of the Republic of India, Dr. Karan Singh President – Indian Council for Cultural Relations, Dr. Fumio Isoda, Executive Vice President, The University of Tokyo, Dr. Anil Sinha, Regional Head, Advisory Services South Asia, International Finance Corporation (IFC), Dr. Surjit Bhalla, Chairman, Oxus Investments & Senior Advisor Bluefin, Sethuraman Panchanathan Senior Vice President Knowledge Enterprise Development, Arizona State University, Som Mittal Former President NASSCOM, Umang Bedi, Managing Director Adobe Systems, Suneet Singh Tuli, Founder and CEO Datawind Ltd.\n\nOne Globe's current advisory board includes Harjiv Singh, Founder & CEO, Salwan Media Ventures, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament & National President Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Jerry MacArthur Hultin, Senior Presidential Fellow, New York University, and Chairman, Global Advisory Board, at Smart City Expo World Congress, Dr. Siddharth Saxena, Chairperson, Cambridge Central Asia Forum, Dr. Shailaja Fennel, Lecturer in Development Studies, Department of Land Economy, University of Cambridge, Dalbir Singh, Senior Advisor, Forum of Federations Canada, Mahendra Bapna Former Chief Executive Officer, Tata Motor Enterprises and Yatish Rajawat, Founder, Livable Habitats.\n\nOne Globe Forum provides an ideal annual platform for companies, universities, organizations, governments and civil society to build their brand, thought leadership. The annual event also provides an excellent opportunity to network with key decision makers and thought leaders.\nOne Globe’s curated digital content of videos, email, photographs, and editorial coverage of the forum through the year helps to engage a diverse global audience. Organizations like Cisco, Adobe, Yes Bank, NYU Wagner, Wagner, and WISE have been partners with the forum in its previous editions.\n\nOne Globe’s knowledge partners have included - Knowledge@Wharton\n, PwC, Brookings Institution, US India Business Council, UK India Business Council, TiE, Swedish Chamber, MAIT, The Chamber of Commerce and Industry France India (CCIFI).\nMedia Partners have included – \"BrainGain\" Magazine, \"The International New York Times\", \"The International Herald Tribune\", \"The Sunday Guardian\", \"The Telegraph\" and Asia Briefing.\n\nThe sixth edition of One Globe Forum was held in February 2017 at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. The Forum commenced with an inaugural session which was attended by Shri PP Choudhary, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Law and Justice; and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh, Union Minister of State, Ministry for Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, Government of India, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament (LS); Chairman of India’s Parliamentary Committee on IT, Shalabh Kumar, Founder & President, Republican Hindu Coalition, Dr. Mukesh Aghi, President, U.S.-India Business Council and Lord Raj Loomba, Founder & Chairman Trustee, The Loomba Foundation, Dalbir Singh, Chairman Organizing Committee; Senior Advisor, Forum of Federations, Canada and Harjiv Singh, Convener, One Globe Forum. & \n\nThe major themes deliberated upon included smart cities, Make in India, defense security, women’s empowerment, science, innovation, higher education, and transforming the public health sector. The One Globe Forum also gave away awards in categories for Social Impact, Entrepreneurship, Smart Cities, Research & Development, and Enabling a Digital Economy.\n\nOne Globe Forum hosted several keynote sessions and panel discussions along with a breakout session on Design Thinking. The speakers included eminent policy makers, thought leaders, and entrepreneurs. From discussing the critical role of women’s empowerment towards engendering economic empowerment, to deliberating on how robotics will affect the future of employment, the forum enabled breakthrough insights and knowledge networks.\n\nCISCO, USIBC, Knowledge@Wharton, BrainGain Magazine, Swedish Chamber of Commerce India, ANZIBA, European Business Group, WION, and Kodak were key partners who ensured the event’s scale and success. Distinguished speakers at the forum included Raghav Chandra, Former Chairman, NHAI; Secretary, National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, Khurshed Gandhi, Managing Director, Cushman & Wakefield, Masayoshi Tamura, General Manager, Hitachi India, Mahendra Bapna, Senior Advisor, IIT-Jodhpur, Dr. Makarand Chipalkatti, Managing Director, Dr. Chips Consulting LLC, Gaurav Agarwal, Director-Public Sector, Cisco Systems India and SAARC, Manish Tewari, Former Union Minister of State for Information & Broadcasting, General Deepak Kapoor, Former Chief of Army Staff, Indian Army, Air Marshal Sumit Mukerji, Former Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Vice Admiral Shekhar Sinha, Former Western Naval Command Chief, Manoj Kothari, MD & Principal Strategist, Turian Labs, Vikram Chachra, CEO & Managing Partner, Eight Capital LLC, Dhruv Agarwala, CEO, PropTiger, Aashish Kalra, Chairman, Cambridge Technology Inc, Rohan Malhotra, CEO & Founder, RoadZen Inc., Vaishali Nigam Sinha, CEO, iCharity, Sutapa Sanyal, Director General Police, UP Police Mahila Samman Prakoshth; State Human Rights Commission and Civil Defence, Kunal Nandwani, CEO, uTrade Solutions, Prasad Vanga, Founder & Speed Scaler, Anthill Ventures, Pallav Sinha, Founder & CEO, MeraJob India, C.V.R. Murty, Director, IIT-Jodhpur, Francisco Marmolejo, Lead, Global Solutions Group on Tertiary Education; Lead Education Specialist for India, World Bank, Ajit Kumar, Vice Chancellor, NIFTEM, Mr. Sandeep Sancheti, President, Manipal University, Jaipur, K. Nagaraj Naidu, Joint Secretary (ED), Ministry of External Affairs, Patrick Santillo, Minister – Counselor for Commercial Affairs, U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, Alan Freedman, MOORE Capital, H.E. Daniel Carmon, Ambassador of Israel to India , Louis Skyner, Senior Associate, Clifford, Chance, Ajai Malhotra, Former Ambassador of India to Russia, Dr. C. Raja Mohan, Director, Carneigie India, Ravi Pandit, Co-Founder, Chairman & Group CEO, KPIT Technologies, Som Mittal, Former President, NASSCOM, Jagdish Mitra, Chief Strategy and Marketing Officer, Tech Mahindra, Manit Jain, Founder & Director, Heritage School, Shweta Sastri, Executive Director, Canadian International School, Bengaluru, Sudhir Wadhwa, CTO, Viridis Learning, Sandy Hooda, Founder, Vega Schools, Shoma Chaudhury, Former Managing Editor, Tehelka, Dr. J.N. Misra, Former Ambassador of India to Portugal & Laos, Harendra Singh, Chief Coach, Indian Junior Men’s Hockey Team & Dronacharya Award Winner; Deputy General Manager, Air India, CK Mishra, Union Health Secretary, Vidur Mahajan, Associate Director, Mahajan Imaging, Harpal Singh, Mentor & Chairman Emeritus, Fortis Healthcare, Shri J.S. Deepak, Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Technology, Government of India, Debasish Mitter, Country Director – India, Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, Vishal Mehta, Co-founder, Lok Capital, and Ranjna Khanna, Director, Impact Investors Council.\n\nThe fifth edition of the One Globe Forum was organized in February 2016, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. It was inaugurated by Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and currently Minister of State with independent charge of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.\nThe forum hosted sessions on key topics like smart cities, defense manufacturing, entrepreneurship, Digital India, skills, investment in science & innovation, social ventures, and higher education in the 21st century., & \n\nPreviously known as the One Globe Conference the event also rebranded as the One Globe Forum. During the two-day event, leaders from various fields met to discuss and deliberate on themes which are critical to the growth of India and South Asia. They identified challenges and suggested pathways for transforming India and South Asia into knowledge hubs with vibrant economies. The sixth edition also saw the institution of the One Globe Awards. & \n\nCISCO, Anthros Inc, USIBC, Knowledge@Wharton, India Briefing, VCCircle, Business World Smart Cities, Swedish Chamber of Commerce India, and BrainGain Magazine were key partners for the event and played a significant role towards ensuring its success. One Globe Forum consolidated its reputation as a platform for uniting knowledge communities by bringing together thought-leaders, policy makers, and leaders like Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting – Government of India, Babul Supriyo, Minister of State for Urban Development, Bibek Debroy, Economist and Member of Niti Aayog, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament and Chairman – Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT, Shinichi Yamanaka, Senior Advisor – Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology – Japan, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Former Deputy Chairman – Planning Commission of India, Sofia Eriksson, Head of Communications – Ericsson, India, Jerry MacArthur Hultin, Chairman, The Global Futures Group, LLC & President Emeritus, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, Dr. Shailaja Fennell, Centre of Development Studies – University of Cambridge, Lord Loomba C.B.E., Founder & Chairman Trustee – The Loomba Foundation, Purushottam Kaushik, MD-Sales, CISCO India and SAARC, Ashok Atluri, Chairman & MD – Zen Technologies, Ravi Pandit, Co-founder, Chairman & Group CEO – KPIT Technologies, Bharat R. Joshi, CEO – J Curve Ventures Pvt. Ltd., Nandita Agarwal Parker, MD – Karma Capital Management LLC, Amit Srivastav, President – Infinite Computer Solutions, Chokan Laumulin – Research Fellow – Central Asian Forum, Jesus College, University of Cambridge, Felix Ortiz III, Founder, Chairman & CEO – Viridis Learning, William Kooser, Associate Dean – Global Outreach, University of Chicago School of Business, Moitreyee Sinha, Associate Director – Global Development Incubator, Siddharth Zarabi, Executive Editor – Bloomberg TV, Sanjeev Mohanty, CEO & Managing Director – JABONG, General Deepak Kapoor, Ex-Chief of the Army Staff, Debashish Mitter, Country Director – India – Michael & Susan Dell Foundation. Speaking at the Inaugural Session, Colonel Rathore underlined the importance of a forum like One Globe. He said, “I call it the world community, as borders are no longer relevant. Lessons learnt in one part of the world can be shared with another.”\n\nIn its fourth edition, the \"One Globe Forum\" was held in March 2015 at The Imperial, New Delhi, inaugurated by Hon'ble Shree Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (independent charge) for Power, Coal and New and Renewable energy, Govt. of India.\n\nThe topics of discussions were mobility, connectivity and ubiquity – described by Harjiv Singh as \"shaping the 21st century landscape\" by being the key drivers of economic development. They are also widely seen as key enablers of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Government of India's initiatives such as Smart Cities, Digital India and Make in India.\nThrough a mixture of keynote speeches, panel discussions and interactive sessions, a number of ideas were mooted by educators, policy makers, C-suite executives, and Government officials. From deliberating the importance of making India a global knowledge destination, to including citizen participation in policy making, allowing better IT integration & even deliberating the urgent need to addressing current skill deficit in India, One Globe 2015 made a breakthrough by bringing the key stakeholders to deliberate the real enablers of socio-economic development in India and the South Asian region.\n\nCisco, U.S.-India Business Council, Brookings India, The College Board, Knowledge@Wharton, The Telegraph, MAIT, Asia Briefings, BrainGainMag & Gutenberg Communications were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success in producing the two-day showcase event.\nBuilding on its reputation from previous years, One Globe 2015 saw some renowned speakers such as Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (I/C) for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy, Government of India, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (I/C) and Parliamentary Affairs, Government of India,\nIn the lunch keynote, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, minister of state for skill development and entrepreneurship (independent charge), and parliamentary affairs, Govt. of India discussed skill development in India with a balance of critique and optimism. At one point he stated “We have an unorganized workforce, but it is nothing to be disappointed about. We have started now what we should have 60 years ago. The government has planned it out. We are talking about many out-of-the-box ideas to create a skilling ecosystem in the country, for which we need support from all of you”.\n\nThe third edition of the “One Globe: Uniting Knowledge Communities” Conference was organized in February, 2013, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India, & inaugurated by Salman Khurshid, Honorable Union Minister of External Affairs, Government of India.\n\nThe conference continued to build on its theme of discussing and (in the process) discovering, the real enablers’ that would drive economic growth in India and the South Asian region.\n\nThrough series of keynote addresses, expert panels and interactive sessions held over the two day event, the conference served as a platform wherein dignitaries enthusiastically participated in identifying the significant challenges for India, and South Asia, on the journey towards becoming a 21st-century knowledge hub –such as, highest rates of adult illiteracy, lack of quality education, shortage of teachers, low internet penetration, a low gross enrollment ratio across the education spectrum, and most importantly, limited exchanges within the South Asian region.\n\nCollege Board, Adobe, BFU Blossoms, International New York Times, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, Media Value Works, WISE, The Indus Entrepreneurs, Gutenberg Communications, PHD Chamber, & The Sunday Guardian were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event's success.\nKey speakers included Salman Khurshid, Minister of External Affairs, Government of India, Smt. Preneet Kaur, Minister of State for External Affairs, Government of India, Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, Onno Ruhl, India Country Director, World Bank, Anurag Thakur, National President, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), Umang Bedi, Managing Director - South Asia, Adobe Systems, Dr. Subir Gokarn, Director, Research, Brookings India, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution USA, Som Mittal, Former President, NASSCOM, Mr. Kotaro Tamura, Adjunct Professor, Lee Kwan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore and Chairman, Strategic Initiative of Japan, Suneet Singh Tuli, Founder and CEO, DataWind Ltd, Varun Sood, CIO, Fortis Healthcare Limited, Sukumar Ranganathan, Editor, Mint, among others.\nIn his keynote address, Hon’ble Minister Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Government of India discussed the role of internet and digitization of knowledge repositories as key contributors in uniting knowledge communities across the world. Tewari said “The internet was the most audacious experiment in anarchy and has succeeded. In the past two decades there has been a fundamental transformation in the information architecture of the world –the emergence of the Internet has broken the geographic and physical barriers to the way knowledge is disseminated.”\n\nThe second annual “One Globe: Uniting Knowledge Communities” (#OG 13) Conference was organized in February, 2013, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. It was inaugurated by Dr. Pallam Raju, Honorable Union Minister of Human Resources Development, Government of India.\nThe conference served as an engaging forum with leaders from government, academia, business, non-profit and multilateral institutions debating and discussing the elements of creating a 21st-century knowledge based economy.\n\nTopics explored the linkages across the knowledge spectrum, from K-12 to higher education, to innovation to technology. Weaving a holistic thread across discussions, from the four pillars of learning to the creation of world class universities, from India's demographic dividend, to the use of technologies, like tablets and mobile video in delivering education, from rapid urbanization and designing sustainable innovative cities, building capacity in skills development by looking at community colleges and encouraging entrepreneurship, to the imperative of educating women.\nThe International Herald Tribune, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, The Indus Entrepreneurs, WISE, Gutenberg Communications, PHD Chamber, & The Sunday Guardian were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success.\n\nKey speakers included, Dr. Karan Singh, Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha); President of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), and India’s Ambassador to UNESCO, Hon’ble Minister Preneet Kaur, Minister of State for External Affairs, Government of India, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of India, Mr. Stavros N. Yiannouka, CEO, World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE), R.K. Pachauri, Director General of The Energy and Resources Institute(TERI), Madhav Chavan, CEO, Pratham & WISE Prize for Education Laureate and many more.\n\nIn a special keynote, Hon’ble Minister Shashi Tharoor, Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Government of India, expressed the need to focus on socio-economic development along with technology driven education initiatives. Tharoor said “If I had to pick the one thing that we must do above all else, I now offer a two-word mantra: educate girls” –answering the perennial question: What is the single-most important thing that can be done to improve the world?\n\nThe first conference featured moderated open discussions with leading scholars and expert panelists, and provided participants with an in-depth view of how innovative solutions can help solve real world challenges in education. In two days of sessions and round-table discussions, the conference focused on exploring the multiple opportunities in India and South Asia’s education sector.\n\nSome of the corporate sponsors included YES Bank, the Institute of International Education (IIE), USA Community College Consortium and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).\n\nThe International Herald Tribune, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, The Indus Entrepreneurs, UK India Business Council, Gutenberg Communications, Ecole Hoteliere Lausanne, Habiart Foundation, Global Partnerships Forum and Centre of Community Initiative were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success in producing the two-day showcase event.\n\nKapil Sibal, Union Minister for HRD & Communications and Information Technology, Government of India, announcing the need of an open platform, where students will be able to access courses from other universities, interact with international faculty members, and, in the process, generate knowledge, said, “We have to move forward as One Globe, reuniting knowledge communities”. Sibal also urged for the private sector to increase their participation to give a boost to the Gross Enrolment Ratio to 42 million by 2020.\n\nSome of the key speakers and dignitaries included Sam Pitroda, Advisor to the Prime Minister, Public Information Infrastructure & Innovations, Ron Somers, President, U.S.-India, Business Council, Lord Loomba CBE, Founder Chairman, The Loomba Foundation, Shantanu Prakash, Chairman and Managing Director, Educomp Solutions Limited, Jacques Steinberg, Senior Editor, The Choice and The Learning Network, The New York Times, Dr. Mukesh Aghi, Chairman & CEO, Steria India, and many more.\n\nOne Globe Forum also publishes content such as videos and articles on its website and social media channels.\n\nMake in India\nDigital India\nSmart Cities\nStartup India\n"}
{"id": "17888637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17888637", "title": "Planetary Science Archive", "text": "Planetary Science Archive\n\nThe Planetary Science Archive is the central repository for all scientific and engineering data returned by the European Space Agency's Solar system missions: currently Giotto, Huygens, Mars Express, Rosetta, SMART-1, and Venus Express, as well as several ground-based cometary observations. It uses NASA's Planetary Data System standards as a baseline for the formatting and structure of all data contained within the archive. All of the data sets are peer reviewed and undergo an additional internal validation procedure.\nAll data on the PSA are free to download and use.The Principal Investigator(s) as well as the ESA Planetary Science Archive have to be acknowledged when making a publication using the downloaded data.\n"}
{"id": "37293416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37293416", "title": "Population Europe", "text": "Population Europe\n\nPopulation Europe is a collaborative network of Europe’s demographic research institutes and centres. It was founded in 2009. Its aim is to coordinate and strengthen research efforts and to contribute reliable facts and findings to public discussions of population issues.\n\nThe network operates under the auspices of the European Association for Population Studies (EAPS) and is supported by the European Commission.\n\nPopulation Europe currently includes 25 European research institutes; it further collaborates with institutions working on population and policy issues.\n\nPopulation Europe has two branches: the Council of Advisors and the Information Centre. The Council of Advisors assembles researchers. The Information Centre coordinates the dissemination of demographic facts on population trends and policies to a scientific audience, as well as to the general public.\n\nThe Population Europe Secretariat is hosted by the Max Planck Society. The Secretariat is situated at the WissenschaftsForum at the Gendarmenmarkt in Berlin.\n"}
{"id": "42753573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42753573", "title": "Province of Cape of Good Hope Official Gazette", "text": "Province of Cape of Good Hope Official Gazette\n\nThe Province of Cape of Good Hope Official Gazette was the government gazette of the Province of the Cape of Good Hope. \n\nIt was published in Cape Town from June 1910 and replaced the \"Cape of Good Hope Government Gazette\" (1826-1910) when Cape Colony became a Province.\n\n"}
{"id": "27532898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27532898", "title": "Rudi Monastery", "text": "Rudi Monastery\n\nThe Rudi (Rughi) Monastery () is a monastery in Rudi, Moldova. It was established in Moldavia, in 1777.\n\n"}
{"id": "38542617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38542617", "title": "SSBT OD05 Omnibus", "text": "SSBT OD05 Omnibus\n\nSSBT OD05 OMNIBUS ACCOUNT—TREATY CLIENTS and SSBT OD05 OMNIBUS CHINA TREATY 808150 are mysterious investment funds holding significant stakes in more than 170 large Japanese publicly traded companies. Although their stake in a single company never exceeds 5% (a level that requires greater disclosure under Japanese securities laws), the total value of their stakes is exceeding ¥ 3.58 trillion (app. $ 45 billion) as of 2012. Funds are registered in Australia, but investors are not known. It is widely believed that investors are China’s state-owned China Investment Corporation and State Administration of Foreign Exchange. \n"}
{"id": "45145351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45145351", "title": "Salpa fusiformis", "text": "Salpa fusiformis\n\nSalpa fusiformis, sometimes known as the common salp, is the most widespread species of salp. They have a cosmopolitan distribution, and can be found at depths of . They exhibit diel vertical migration, moving closer to the surface at night. They can occur in very dense swarms, as solitary zooids or as colonies. Solitary zooids usually measure in length. They are barrel-shaped and elongated, with a rounded front and a flat rear. Aggregate zooids are in length individually (excluding projections). They are usually barrel or spindle-shaped.\n"}
{"id": "682884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682884", "title": "Snooker world rankings 1995/1996", "text": "Snooker world rankings 1995/1996\n\nSnooker world rankings 1995/1996: The professional world rankings for the top 64 snooker players in the 1995/1996 season are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "39013012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39013012", "title": "Willis' Battery", "text": "Willis' Battery\n\nWillis' Battery is a former artillery battery on the north side of the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar. It overlooks the isthmus between Spain and Gibraltar.\n\nThe battery was originally built during the period of Spanish rule over Gibraltar and was known as \"Batería de San Joaquín\". It was renamed, as was the adjoining plateau, after a British artillery officer called Willis who distinguished himself during the 1704 Capture of Gibraltar. The battery was the first British battery on Willis' Plateau, mounting two guns, and saw active service during the Thirteenth Siege of Gibraltar in 1727. Although it was above sea level, it proved vulnerable to Spanish bombardment and its guns were dismounted by enemy fire. They were positioned very close to the cliff edge with little protection other than a thin wall to prevent their carriages from rolling over the precipice. \n\nThe battery underwent major changes following the siege. Merlons made of casks filled with stones were installed to provide protection from bombardment and the number of cannon was increased to nine. More improvements were made between 1730–45 when two magazines were constructed. During the Anglo-Spanish War of 1762–63 Willis' Battery was equipped with six 8-inch mortars and twenty-two 4.66-inch Coehorn mortars.\n\nIntensive Spanish bombardment during the Great Siege of Gibraltar (1779–83) caused heavy damage to Willis' Battery, which had to be repaired by the summer of 1781. The British defenders constructed caissons – wooden frames filled with rammed clay and topped with pieces of old rope – which were placed on the ramparts of the battery. This proved to be a very effective means of capping the ramparts and improving the guns' protection from enemy fire.\n\nThe battery was expanded to mount 34 guns by 1859. In May 1906, a proposal was advanced to mount two 12-pdr. quick-firing guns at Willis' Magazine.\n"}
{"id": "10868077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10868077", "title": "Țiriac Holdings", "text": "Țiriac Holdings\n\nŢiriac Holdings Ltd. is a Romanian company primarily owned by Ion Ţiriac. Among its operations are car dealership, vehicle leasing, real estate, elevator manufacturing, transport and leasing of executive jets (Ţiriac Air), banking (UniCredit Țiriac Bank), and insurance (Allianz Ţiriac). It also has a 49% interest in a joint venture with DaimlerChrysler for the sales and marketing of all DaimlerChrysler automotive brands in Romania.\n\n"}
